 
 
Land of the Gadigal people of the Eora Nation
Level 27, 135 King Street
Sydney NSW 2000
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
Tel 02 9230 9133
www.accc.gov.au
 
Our ref: 
IM-72751 
18 November 2024 
 
 
Dear Interested Party 
Request for submissions: Vocus’ proposed acquisition of TPG’s fixed line enterprise, 
government and wholesale business 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
Vocus Group Limited’s (Vocus) proposed acquisition of TPG Telecom Limited’s (TPG) fixed 
line enterprise, government and wholesale business customer base and TPG’s fibre and 
transmission networks (the proposed acquisition).  
Vocus supplies fibre and network services to government, enterprise and wholesale customers, 
communications and technology services to small and medium sized businesses, and retail 
customer fixed services. TPG is a mobile network operator. It also operates and supplies fixed 
broadband services to consumers, small and medium sized businesses and enterprise, and 
government customers. Further, TPG supplies wholesale telecommunication services. TPG’s 
mobile network and mobile customer base, including fixed wireless customers, (in addition to its 
consumer and “small office home office” fixed line customer base) are not part of the proposed 
acquisition. Further details are in Attachment A.  
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact on competition of the proposed 
acquisition. In particular, we are seeking your views on the likely impact on prices and 
service quality in the supply of: 
• 
data networks and connectivity services, including fixed line telecommunications 
services and IP transit 
• 
NBN wholesale aggregation services (the resale of NBN connectivity) 
• 
fixed line voice services, and 
• 
data centres, cloud and security services.  
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in section 50 of 
the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth) (the Act). Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
Please provide your response by 5pm on 2 December 2024 via email to mergers@accc.gov.au  
with the title: Submission re: Vocus/TPG. If you require more time to respond, please let us know.  
If you would like to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any questions about this letter, 
please contact mergers@accc.gov.au. 


 
 
2
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public Mergers 
Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC treats sensitive information it receives during a merger review as confidential, and will not publish 
your submission. We will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) unless 
compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or during court proceedings) or in 
accordance with s155AAA of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to 
disclose confidential information, we will notify you in advance where possible so that you have an 
opportunity to be heard. Therefore, please clearly indicate if any information you provide is confidential. Our 
Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
Morag Bond 
General Manager  
Merger Investigations  
 
 


 
 
3
Attachment A 
 
Vocus 
Vocus is an Australian telecommunications company which supplies retail and wholesale 
services across Australia.  
Vocus provides fibre and network services to government, enterprise and wholesale 
customers under the Vocus, Nextgen Networks, Amcom Telecommunications and Challenge 
Networks brands. It also provides voice and broadband services to small and medium 
businesses (SMEs) through its Commander brand, and retail consumer broadband services 
under the iPrimus and Dodo brands.  
Vocus owns a fibre network, which includes domestic inter-capital transmission and 
metropolitan fibre infrastructure serving business premises.  
TPG  
TPG is an ASX listed (ASX: TPG) telecommunications company.  
The assets that Vocus is proposing to acquire from TPG include the following:  
• 
network assets: TPG’s fibre network, including metropolitan, domestic, inter-capital 
and international subsea cable systems, and data centres that are primarily used for 
business, enterprise, government, wholesale and SME.  
• 
Vision Network: a wholly-owned subsidiary of TPG, Vision Network is a fixed line 
broadband network that provides residential broadband access services in selected 
areas of Sydney, Canberra, Perth, Adelaide, Brisbane, Melbourne, Geelong, Ballarat 
and Mildura.  
• 
wholesale, government and enterprise products and services: TPG provides fixed line 
fibre and fixed line network services to wholesale, enterprise and government 
customers under the TPG Telecom and AAPT brands.  
TPG also operates a mobile network, however, this and its active residential fixed line assets 
(other than fibre and transmission network assets) will be excluded from the proposed 
acquisition. TPG’s consumer, business, enterprise, government and wholesale mobile 
customers as well as its consumer and “small office home office” retail fixed line customers 
and business will also be excluded from the proposed acquisition.  
The proposed acquisition 
On 13 October 2024, Vocus signed a Share Purchase Agreement to acquire 100% of Pipe 
Networks Pty Limited, being the entity that will hold, post-acquisition, TPG’s current fixed line 
business, enterprise, government and wholesale customer base and TPG’s fibre and 
transmission networks. The proposed acquisition will include subsea cables owned and 
leased by TPG and TPG’s residential wholesale broadband business, Vision Network Pty 
Limited. 
 
 


 
 
4
Attachment B 
1. Please describe your business or organisation and explain your interest in the proposed 
acquisition, including any commercial relationship(s) with Vocus and/or TPG.   
2. Please describe how closely Vocus and TPG compete in the supply of the following 
services: 
a) data networks and connectivity services, including fixed line telecommunications 
services and IP transit 
b) NBN wholesale aggregation services (the resale of NBN connectivity) 
c) fixed line voice services, and  
d) data centres, cloud and security services.  
Relevant factors may include price, terms, technical capability, network redundancy, 
security, bundled offerings and location.  
3. Please identify other suppliers of each of the following services and the extent to which 
and how they compete with Vocus and/or TPG: 
a) data networks and connectivity services, including fixed line broadband services 
and IP transit 
b) NBN wholesale aggregation services (the resale of NBN connectivity) 
c) fixed line voice services 
d) data centres, cloud and security services.  
For wholesale and retail (including enterprise/business) customers of Vocus and/or TPG  
4. Please describe the wholesale or retail products and services you acquire from Vocus 
and/or TPG and the terms of those arrangements (for example, contract length, value, 
location).  
5. Please describe what factors you consider when selecting a supplier for these services, 
including for example, price, terms, service offering, technical capability, network 
redundancy, security and bundled offerings. 
6. Please explain how easy or difficult it would be for your business to switch between a 
merged Vocus/TPG and another supplier for these services, including the costs and 
timeframes involved with switching.  
7. For wholesale customers, please detail your current arrangements for internet and 
network services, including IP transit (if applicable). If your current supplier was not 
available, what other options are available?   
8. For retail (including enterprise/business) customers, to what extent are other services, 
such as 5G or low earth orbit satellite services, an alternative for your business?  
For wholesale and retail competitors of Vocus and/or TPG 
9. 
Please describe which of the following wholesale or retail products and services you currently 
supply and estimate your market share(s) for the supply of those products and services: 


 
 
5
• 
data networks and connectivity services, including fixed line broadband services  
• 
NBN wholesale aggregation services (the resale of NBN connectivity) 
• 
fixed line voice services 
• 
data centres, cloud and security services. 
 
10. Please detail your current arrangements for acquiring NBN wholesale aggregation services (if 
applicable). If your current supplier or aggregator was not available, what other options are 
available? 
11. Describe any trends or changes you see as impacting the competitive landscape in the 
wholesale supply of data networks and connectivity services, fixed voice line, data centre and 
cloud and security services. 
Proposed Acquisition 
12. Do you have any concerns with the proposed acquisition?  
13. Please provide any additional information or comments that you consider relevant to the 
ACCC’s consideration of the proposed acquisition under section 50 of the Act. 
 
