 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Undertaking to the Australian 
Competition and Consumer 
Commission 
 
 
 
Given under section 87B of the Competition and 
Consumer Act 2010 (Cth) by Sika AG and Sika 
Australia Pty Ltd (ACN 001 342 329) 
 
 


 
 
Contents 
 
1. 
Person giving the Undertaking ........................................................................... 1 
2. 
Background .......................................................................................................... 1 
3. 
Commencement of this Undertaking ................................................................. 3 
4. 
Cessation of Ongoing Obligations ..................................................................... 3 
5. 
Divestiture of the Divestiture Business ............................................................. 4 
6. 
Process for approving a proposed purchaser .................................................. 7 
7. 
Divestiture Business protection ......................................................................... 8 
8. 
Hold Separate Manager and Approved Monitoring Trustee .......................... 10 
9. 
Independent Audit ............................................................................................. 15 
10. 
Failure to divest the Divestiture Business within the Initial Divestiture 
Period .................................................................................................................. 19 
11. 
Notification of key dates and ACCC requests for information ..................... 24 
12. 
Disclosure of this Undertaking ......................................................................... 25 
13. 
Obligation to procure ........................................................................................ 26 
14. 
No derogation ..................................................................................................... 26 
15. 
Change of Control .............................................................................................. 26 
16. 
Costs ................................................................................................................... 26 
17. 
Jurisdiction ......................................................................................................... 27 
18. 
Resolving inconsistencies ................................................................................ 27 
19. 
Notices ................................................................................................................ 27 
20. 
Defined terms and interpretation ..................................................................... 28 
Schedule 1 – Dictionary and interpretation.................................................................. 31 
Schedule 2 – Proposed Purchaser Notice Form ......................................................... 37 
Schedule 3 – Undertaking Appointment Form ............................................................ 40 
Schedule 4 – Divestiture Business ............................................................................... 44 
Confidential Schedule 4A - Unregistered patents ....................................................... 57 
Confidential Schedule 5 - Key customer and supplier contracts .............................. 58 
Confidential Schedule 6 - Divestment period .............................................................. 61 


 
 
Confidential Schedule 7 - EC Commitments ................................................................ 62 
Confidential Schedule 8 - Sale and Purchase Agreement .......................................... 63 
Confidential Schedule 9 - Transitional Services Agreement...................................... 64 
Confidential Schedule 10 - Supply Agreement ............................................................ 65 
Schedule 11 - Approved Purchaser .............................................................................. 66 


1 
 
1. 
Person giving the Undertaking 
1.1. 
This Undertaking is given to the Australian Competition and Consumer 
Commission (ACCC) by Sika AG and its subsidiary Sika Australia Pty Ltd ACN 
001 342 329 (together referred to as Sika in this Undertaking). 
2. 
Background 
The parties to the proposed acquisition 
2.1. 
Acquirer: Sika AG (indirectly via its wholly-owned subsidiary Sika International 
AG) a listed company headquartered in Switzerland.  Sika develops and 
produces in particular chemical admixtures, mortars, sealants and adhesives, 
damping and reinforcing materials, structural strengthening systems, industrial 
flooring as well as roofing and waterproofing systems which are used in the 
building sector and by manufacturing industries.  Sika SA manufactures and 
distributes products in Australia through its subsidiary, Sika Australia Pty Ltd.  
2.2. 
Target:  LSF11 Skyscraper HoldCo S.à r.l., the holding company for the MBCC 
Group of entities, and established in Luxembourg.  MBCC Group produces and 
distributes chemical admixtures and construction systems for new constructions, 
maintenance, repair and renovation of residential and commercial buildings, as 
well as infrastructure. It is specialised in the manufacture of concrete repair and 
protection systems, performance grouts, waterproofing systems, sealants, 
performance flooring systems, as well as wood and fire protection products and 
manufactures chemical admixtures.  MBCC Group manufactures and distributes 
products in Australia through its subsidiary MB Solutions Australia Pty Ltd and 
Bluey Technologies Pty Ltd. 
The Proposed Acquisition 
2.3. 
Sika AG, indirectly via its wholly-owned subsidiary Sika International AG, is 
proposing to acquire 100% of the shares in LSF11 Skyscraper HoldCo S.à.r.l., 
Luxembourg, the holding company of the MBCC group of companies from Lone 
Star Funds (Proposed Acquisition).   
The ACCC’s review 
2.4. 
On 20 January 2022, the ACCC commenced its public review of the Proposed 
Acquisition. 
2.5. 
The ACCC undertook market inquiries and considered information provided by 
the parties to the Proposed Acquisition, industry participants and others. The 
purpose of the ACCC’s inquiries was to assess whether the Proposed Acquisition 
would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of substantially lessening 
competition in any market in Australia in contravention of section 50 of the Act. 
The ACCC’s competition concerns 
2.6. 
The ACCC has concluded that, in the absence of the Undertaking, the Proposed 
Acquisition would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of substantially 
lessening competition in the supply of chemical admixtures in Australia. 
2.7. 
The ACCC considered that the Proposed Acquisition would combine the two 
largest suppliers of chemical admixtures in Australia and remove Sika’s closest 
competitive constraint. Post-acquisition, their combined market share would be 


2 
 
approximately 80 per cent. The ACCC considered that other suppliers would not 
represent a sufficient level of competitive constraint to prevent the merged entity 
from profitably increasing prices or decreasing service quality. For larger 
customers in particular, Sika and MBCC are the only two suppliers currently able 
to service their needs. 
2.8. 
The threat of new entry or expansion was considered unlikely to provide an 
effective constraint on the merged entity. The ACCC found that the market for the 
supply of chemical admixtures has high barriers to entry and expansion. Such 
barriers include difficulties accessing raw materials, incumbency advantages for 
existing suppliers, and significant economies of scale and scope. The ACCC 
concluded that customers would be unlikely to effectively bypass the merged 
entity. 
2.9. 
Concerns were also raised about whether other suppliers would have the ability 
to conduct research, develop and innovate on a sufficient scale and scope to 
compete effectively with the merged entity. If other suppliers did not have the 
ability to compete in this way, the ACCC was concerned that the merged entity 
would be less incentivised to innovate and, for example, bring new product 
developments to Australia.  
Commitments to the European Commission 
2.10. 
On 14 December 2022, Sika notified the European Commission of the Proposed 
Acquisition. 
2.11. 
On 18 January 2023, Sika submitted the proposed EC Commitments to the 
European Commission, setting out the terms upon which Sika will divest the 
Divestiture Business. 
2.12. 
On 8 February 2023, the European Commission approved, under the EU Merger 
Regulation, the Proposed Acquisition. The approval is conditional on the 
divestiture of the Divestiture Business.  
The Undertaking remedy 
2.13. 
Sika does not consider that the Proposed Acquisition would have the effect, or be 
likely to have the effect, of substantially lessening competition in any relevant 
market.  However, to address the ACCC's competition concerns, Sika has offered 
this Undertaking pursuant to section 87B of the Act.  
2.14. 
This Undertaking incorporates the EC Commitments to divest or procure the 
divestiture of the Divestiture Business to a Purchaser. Pursuant to the EC 
Commitments, the purchaser must be approved by the European Commission. 
Pursuant to this Undertaking, the purchaser must be approved by the ACCC. 
2.15. 
The objective of this Undertaking is to address the ACCC’s competition concerns 
as set out above that would otherwise arise as a consequence of the Proposed 
Acquisition. The Undertaking aims to achieve this objective by placing obligations 
on Sika to: 
(a) ensure that the Divestiture Business is sold to an Approved Purchaser that 
will result in the creation or strengthening of a viable, effective, stand-alone, 
independent and long term competitor for the supply of chemical admixtures 
in Australia; 


3 
 
(b) ensure the purchaser of the Divestiture Business has all the necessary 
associated assets and rights to compete effectively with Sika in the supply 
of chemical admixtures in Australia; 
(c) 
maintain the economic viability, marketability, competitiveness and goodwill 
of the Divestiture Business prior to divestiture;  
(d) ensure that research and development facilities will transfer to the Approved 
Purchaser of the Divestiture Business; and  
(e) provide for the effective oversight of Sika’s compliance with this 
Undertaking. 
3. 
Commencement of this Undertaking 
3.1. 
This Undertaking comes into effect when: 
(a) 
this Undertaking is executed by Sika; and 
(b) 
this Undertaking so executed is accepted by the ACCC 
(the Commencement Date). 
 
4. 
Cessation of Ongoing Obligations 
Withdrawal 
4.1. 
Sika may request withdrawal of this Undertaking pursuant to section 87B of the 
Act at any time. This Undertaking is taken to be withdrawn on the date the ACCC 
consents in writing to that withdrawal. 
Revocation 
4.2. 
The ACCC may, at any time, revoke its acceptance of this Undertaking if the 
ACCC becomes aware that any information provided to it was incorrect, 
inaccurate or misleading.  
Waiver 
4.3. 
The ACCC may, at any time, waive any of the obligations contained in this 
Undertaking. Such a waiver must be express and in writing.  
Extension 
4.4. 
The ACCC may, at any time, extend the date by which any of the obligations 
contained in the Undertaking is to be satisfied. Such an extension must be 
express and in writing.  
Survival 
4.5. 
Unless and until this Undertaking is withdrawn in accordance with clause 4.1, 
clauses 1, 2, 3, 4, 9, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17 and 18 survive completion of the 
obligations in clauses 5, 6, 7, 8, 10 and Schedule 4 and Confidential Schedule 5, 
Confidential Schedule 6 and Confidential Schedule 7, Confidential Schedule 8, 
Confidential Schedule 9 and Confidential Schedule 10.  


4 
 
5. 
Divestiture of the Divestiture Business 
Divestiture  
5.1. 
Sika must, in accordance with this Undertaking: 
(a) divest, or cause the divestiture of, the Divestiture Business only to an 
Approved Purchaser; and  
(b) on and from the Control Date, comply with the EC Commitments as they 
relate to divestiture of the Divestiture Business.   
5.2. 
For the avoidance of doubt, the EC Commitments will be interpreted in 
accordance with the applicable laws of interpretation in the EEA.  
5.3. 
In the event that clause 10 applies, Sika must not authorise the Approved 
Divestiture Trustee to divest the Unsold Business to a purchaser other than an 
Approved Purchaser. 
5.4. 
Sika must divest, or cause the divestiture of, the Divestiture Business by:  
(a) the sale, assignment, transfer and/or licence of the Divestiture Business, 
including all of the assets in Schedule 4 to the Approved Purchaser, 
pursuant to the Approved Sale and Purchase Agreement and within the 
Initial Divestiture Period, otherwise clause 10 applies; 
(b) the transfer or grant to the Approved Purchaser of all Consents pursuant to 
clauses 5.5 to 5.6; 
(c) 
the transfer of any Transferred Personnel required pursuant to clauses 5.8 
to 5.9; 
(d) compliance with any Approved Transitional Technical Assistance 
Agreement required pursuant to clauses 5.10 to 5.12; and 
(e) compliance with any Approved Transitional Supply Agreement required 
pursuant to clauses 5.13 to 5.15. 
Consents 
5.5. 
Sika must:  
(a) obtain or assist the Approved Purchaser to obtain as expeditiously as 
possible, all Consents as required before completion of the divestiture of the 
Australian Divestiture Business; 
(b) comply with all requirements necessary to obtain any Consents, including 
by promptly providing all information necessary for the Consents to be 
given; 
(c) 
act in good faith in its negotiations with the Approved Purchaser in relation 
to obtaining any Consents; 
(d) promptly pay the costs and expenses of any third party reasonably incurred 
in providing the Consents; and  


5 
 
(e) enter an agreement with the Approved Purchaser and approved by the 
ACCC, or vary any existing Approved Transitional Supply Agreement as 
required by the Approved Purchaser, in relation to any goods or services 
that are required for the operation of the Australian Divestiture Business 
which may be affected by any failure to gain a Consent. 
5.6. 
If, seven Business Days before completion of the divestiture of the Australian 
Divestiture Business, the Approved Purchaser does not or is otherwise unable to 
obtain one or more Consents, then Sika must: 
(a)  immediately provide to the ACCC in writing details of the: 
(i) 
Consents that have not been obtained; 
(ii) 
reasons why the Consents have not been obtained; and 
(iii) 
information or material required to obtain the Consents. 
(b) continue to do everything in its power to satisfy clause 5.5 as soon as 
possible after the completion of the divestiture of the Australian Divestiture 
Business (and until such time as clause 5.5 is satisfied).  
5.7. 
Even if Sika has complied with clause 5.5 to 5.6, Sika will be in breach of this 
Undertaking if Sika is unable to effect the divestiture of the Divestiture Business 
by reason that one or more Consents are not obtained.  
Transferred Personnel  
5.8. 
At the option of the Approved Purchaser, Sika must transfer to the Approved 
Purchaser:  
(a) all employees; and 
(b) all service providers under a contract for service; 
who are, in the view of the Approved Purchaser, required for the Approved 
Purchaser to maintain, operate or conduct effectively the Australian Divestiture 
Business and who consent to the transfer of their employment or contract for 
service to the Approved Purchaser (Transferred Personnel). 
5.9. 
When fulfilling its obligations under clause 5.8, Sika must:  
(a) encourage all Transferred Personnel to remain with the Divestiture 
Business, including offering incentives based on industry practice;  
(b) not directly or indirectly discourage any Transferred Personnel from any 
obligations to provide services to the Divestiture Business; 
(c) 
effective on the date of the divestiture of the Divestiture Business, release 
the Transferred Personnel from any obligations to provide services to Sika;  
(d) effective on the date of the divestiture of the Divestiture Business, release 
the Transferred Personnel from any non-compete or similar restraint of 
trade obligation, to the extent that such an obligation would otherwise 
prevent the person from performing his or her contemplated role in relation 
to the Divestiture Business or Unsold Business; and 


6 
 
(e) not procure, promote or encourage the transfer of any of the Transferred 
Personnel from the Approved Purchaser to Sika for a period of 12 months 
after the completion of the divestiture of the Divestiture Business. 
Technical Assistance 
5.10. 
At the option of the Approved Purchaser, Sika must supply to the Approved 
Purchaser, under an Approved Transitional Technical Assistance Agreement, any 
Technical Assistance that is required by the Approved Purchaser in order to 
operate the Australian Divestiture Business. 
5.11. 
Sika must ensure that any Approved Transitional Technical Assistance 
Agreement, and any renewal or extension of an Approved Transitional Technical 
Assistance Agreement, provides for the supply of Technical Assistance:  
(a) on a transitional basis for a period that is nominated by the Approved 
Purchaser and approved in writing by the ACCC; and 
(b) at cost price and otherwise on arm’s length terms.  
5.12. 
To avoid doubt, Sika must seek prior written approval from the ACCC of any 
renewal or extension of an Approved Transitional Technical Assistance 
Agreement. Without limiting the ACCC’s discretion in making a decision on 
whether to approve a renewal or extension of an Approved Transitional Technical 
Assistance Agreement, the ACCC will have regard to the criteria set out in 
clauses 5.10 and 5.11. 
Transitional Supply Agreements  
5.13. 
At the option of the Approved Purchaser, Sika must ensure the continued supply 
by Sika to the Approved Purchaser, under an Approved Transitional Supply 
Agreement, of any goods or services that are required by the Approved 
Purchaser in order for the Approved Purchaser to be established as a viable, 
effective, stand-alone, independent and long-term competitor in the supply of 
chemical admixtures in Australia.  
5.14. 
Sika must ensure that any Approved Transitional Supply Agreement and any 
renewal or extension of an Approved Transitional Supply Agreement:  
(a) is for a reasonable transitional period, to be nominated by the Approved 
Purchaser and approved in writing by the ACCC;  
(b) provides for the supply or re-supply of the included goods and services at 
cost (i.e. applying current MBCC Group intracompany pricing policies); and  
(c) 
is on such terms other than price which are no less favourable to the 
Approved Purchaser than arm’s length terms. 
5.15. 
To avoid doubt, Sika must seek prior written approval from the ACCC of any 
renewal or extension of an Approved Transitional Supply Agreement. Without 
limiting the ACCC’s discretion in making a decision on whether to approve a 
renewal or extension of an Approved Transitional Supply Agreement, the ACCC 
will have regard to the criteria set out in clauses 5.13 and 5.14.  
 


7 
 
6. 
Process for approving a proposed purchaser 
Potential purchasers 
6.1. 
Sika must provide the ACCC and Approved Independent Auditor with: 
(a) the identity of any person who expresses an interest in acquiring the 
Divestiture Business;  
(b) the status of negotiations with each person; and  
(c) 
a copy of each person’s offer to acquire the Divestiture Business, where 
relevant; 
at the following times: 
(d) as soon as possible following the Commencement Date for those persons 
who express interest before the Commencement Date;  
(e) after the Commencement Date, within 10 Business Days of each person 
expressing the interest and/or providing an offer;  
regardless of whether the person subsequently withdraws or is declined. 
Provision of a notice for a Proposed Purchaser  
6.2. 
To seek ACCC approval for a Proposed Purchaser, Sika or the Approved 
Divestiture Trustee must provide the ACCC with a notice in the form prescribed in 
Schedule 2 to this Undertaking (Proposed Purchaser Notice), including a draft 
sale and purchase agreement, a draft transitional technical assistance agreement 
(where required by the Proposed Purchaser), and a draft transitional supply 
agreement (where required by the Proposed Purchaser). 
6.3. 
The Proposed Purchaser Notice must be provided to the ACCC at least 
20 Business Days prior to the end of the Initial Divestiture Period.  
Purchaser approved at the time the Undertaking was accepted  
6.4. 
At the time this Undertaking was accepted, the ACCC also considered 
information of the type required in a Proposed Purchaser Notice and approved 
the Proposed Purchaser identified in Schedule 11 as the Approved Purchaser of 
the Divestiture Business.  
6.5. 
ACCC approval of the Proposed Purchaser identified in Schedule 11 as the 
Approved Purchaser of the Divestiture Business included approval of: 
(a) the Sale and Purchase Agreement in the form of the attached Confidential 
Schedule 8 as the Approved Sale and Purchase Agreement; 
(b) Transitional Services Agreement in the form of the Attached Confidential 
Schedule 9 and the Supply Agreement in the form of the Attached 
Confidential Schedule 10 as the Approved Transitional Supply Agreement. 


8 
 
Approval of a Proposed Purchaser after the Commencement Date  
6.6. 
The ACCC may, in its discretion, approve or reject in writing the Proposed 
Purchaser identified in the Proposed Purchaser Notice. In exercising this 
discretion, the ACCC will consider, without limitation:  
(a) the draft sale and purchase agreement attached to the Proposed Purchaser 
Notice;  
(b) any draft transitional technical assistance agreement attached to the 
Proposed Purchaser Notice, in accordance with the criteria in clauses 5.10 
and 5.11; and 
(c) 
any draft transitional supply agreement attached to the Proposed Purchaser 
Notice, in accordance with the criteria in clauses 5.13 and 5.14. 
6.7. 
Without limiting the ACCC’s discretion, in making the decision pursuant to clause 
6.6, the factors to which the ACCC may have regard include whether the:  
(a) draft sale and purchase agreement and any ancillary agreement is 
consistent with this Undertaking;  
(b) Proposed Purchaser will complete the transaction as contemplated by the 
draft sale and purchase agreement;  
(c) 
Proposed Purchaser is independent of Sika;  
(d) Proposed Purchaser is of good financial standing;  
(e) Proposed Purchaser has a history of competition law compliance; 
(f) 
Proposed Purchaser has an intention to maintain and operate the 
Divestiture Business as a going concern; 
(g) Proposed Purchaser is able to conduct the Divestiture Business effectively; 
and 
(h) divestiture of the Divestiture Business to the Proposed Purchaser will 
address any competition concerns of the ACCC, including in relation to the 
likely long-term viability and competitiveness of the Divestiture Business 
under the ownership of the Proposed Purchaser. 
6.8. 
The ACCC may revoke an Approved Purchaser’s status as the Approved 
Purchaser if the ACCC becomes aware that any information provided to it was 
incorrect, inaccurate or misleading. 
7. 
Divestiture Business protection 
Protection of the Divestiture Business 
7.1. 
From the Control Date, Sika must not sell or transfer its interest, or any assets 
comprising part of, or used in, the Australian Divestiture Business (other than the 
sale of goods and services in the ordinary course of business) or make any 
Material Change, except in accordance with this Undertaking or (subject to the 
other terms of this Undertaking) as necessary to allow completion of the 
Proposed Acquisition.   


9 
 
Sika’s obligations in relation to the Divestiture Business prior to completion of 
divestiture 
7.2. 
Without limiting this clause 7, Sika must, from the Control Date until completion of 
the divestiture of the Australian Divestiture Business, take all steps available to it 
to:  
(a) ensure that the Australian Divestiture Business is managed and operated in 
the ordinary course of business as a fully operational, competitive going 
concern and in such a way that preserves the economic viability, 
marketability, competitiveness and goodwill of the Australian Divestiture 
Business at the Control Date; 
(b) continue to provide access to working capital and sources of credit for the 
Australian Divestiture Business in a manner which is consistent with the 
financing of the Australian Divestiture Business before the Control Date;  
(c) 
continue to provide administrative and technical support for the Australian 
Divestiture Business in a manner which is consistent with the operation of 
the Australian Divestiture Business before the Control Date and in 
accordance with any plans established before the Control Date; 
(d) continue existing Agreements relating to the Australian Divestiture Business 
with customers, suppliers and/or other third parties that are in place at the 
Control Date; 
(e) renew or replace upon expiry Material Contracts for the provision of goods 
or services to the Australian Divestiture Business on commercial terms 
favourable to the Australian Divestiture Business; 
(f) 
maintain the supply of those goods and services that are part of the 
Australian Divestiture Business to existing customers in a manner consistent 
with the supply of those goods and services as at the Control Date; 
(g) maintain the standard of manufacture, distribution, promotion and sale of 
those products which form part of the Australian Divestiture Business as at 
the Control Date;  
(h) promote and market the products that form part of the Australian Divestiture 
Business in accordance with any plans established before the Control Date; 
and  
(i) 
carry out such other actions or plans that the Approved Monitoring Trustee 
considers to be necessary or convenient to maintain the Australian 
Divestiture Business as an effectively competitive going concern. 
Personnel of Sika 
7.3. 
From the Control Date until completion of the divestiture of the Australian 
Divestiture Business, Sika must:  
(a) in consultation with the Hold Separate Manager, replace any 
(i) 
Transferred Personnel; or  
(ii) 
if the Transferred Personnel have not yet been identified, any 
personnel necessary for the operation of the Divestiture Business;  


10 
 
who leave or will leave the Australian Divestiture Business before 
divestiture; 
(b) not terminate or vary the terms of employment or engagement (or agree to 
do any of those things) of any of the:  
(i) 
Transferred Personnel; or  
(ii) 
if the Transferred Personnel have not yet been identified, any 
personnel necessary for the operation of the Australian Divestiture 
Business; and  
(c) 
not directly or indirectly procure, promote or encourage the redeployment of 
personnel necessary for the operation of the Australian Divestiture Business 
as at the Control Date to any other business operated by Sika.  
7.4. 
As soon as practicable after the Commencement Date, Sika must direct its 
personnel, including directors, contractors, managers, officers, employees and 
agents not to do anything inconsistent with Sika’s obligations under this 
Undertaking. 
Sika’s ongoing obligations in relation to the Divestiture Business 
7.5. 
To the extent Sika has obligations in relation to the provision of transitional 
technical assistance or continued supply pursuant to clauses 5.10 to 5.15 of this 
Undertaking in relation to the Australian Divestiture Business, Sika must not sell, 
assign, transfer, and/or licence directly or indirectly any of the assets necessary 
to fulfil such obligations without the prior written consent of the ACCC.  
Confidential Information 
7.6. 
Subject to clause 7.7, Sika must not, at any time from the Commencement Date, 
use or disclose any Confidential Information about the Divestiture Business 
gained through:  
(a) ownership and/or management of the Divestiture Business; or 
(b) fulfilling any obligations pursuant to this Undertaking. 
7.7. 
Clause 7.6 does not apply to information that Sika requires to:  
(a) comply with legal and regulatory obligations including obligations relating to 
taxation, accounting, financial reporting or stock exchange disclosure 
requirements; or 
(b) carry out its obligations pursuant to this Undertaking; 
provided such information is only used for that purpose and is only disclosed to 
those officers, employees, contractors and advisers of Sika who need to know the 
information to carry out the permitted purpose. 
8. 
Hold Separate Manager and Approved Monitoring Trustee 
EC Commitments  
8.1. 
Pursuant to the EC Commitments, from the date of the adoption of the EC 
Decision: 


11 
 
(a) the Hold Separate Manager will manage the Divestiture Business under the 
supervision of the Monitoring Trustee until completion of the divestment of 
the Divestiture Business; and  
(b) the Monitoring Trustee shall assume and perform its specified duties and 
obligations, including those set out in paragraph 30 of the EC 
Commitments. 
8.2. 
In the event that completion of the divestment of the Australian Divestiture 
Business to an Approved Purchaser does not take place on or before the Control 
Date, then: 
(a) Sika must appoint and maintain an Approved Monitoring Trustee to 
oversee, in close cooperation with the Hold Separate Manager, the ongoing 
management of the Divestiture Business, from the Control Date until the 
completion of the divestiture of the Australian Divestiture Business in 
accordance with this Undertaking; and 
(b) the provisions of this clause 8 will apply. 
Process for approving the Proposed Monitoring Trustee 
8.3. 
At least 15 Business Days before the Control Date, Sika must provide the ACCC 
with a notice for approval of the appointment of the Proposed Monitoring Trustee 
in the form prescribed in Schedule 3 to this Undertaking (Proposed Monitoring 
Trustee Notice), including a draft terms of appointment and a draft separation 
and management plan.  
8.4. 
If clauses 8.13, 8.14 or 8.15 apply, Sika must provide the ACCC with a Proposed 
Monitoring Trustee Notice within five Business Days after the relevant event 
occurs, otherwise clause 8.9 applies. 
8.5. 
The ACCC shall have the discretion to approve or reject in writing the Proposed 
Monitoring Trustee identified in the Proposed Monitoring Trustee Notice. 
8.6. 
Without limiting the ACCC’s discretion, in deciding whether to approve a 
Proposed Monitoring Trustee, the factors to which the ACCC may have regard 
include whether the:  
(a) person named in the Proposed Monitoring Trustee Notice or identified by the 
ACCC has the qualifications and experience necessary to manage the 
Divestiture Business;  
(b) person named in the Proposed Monitoring Trustee Notice or identified by the 
ACCC is sufficiently independent of Sika;  
(c) 
draft terms of appointment and the draft separation and management plan 
are consistent with this Undertaking; and 
(d) draft terms of appointment and the draft separation and management plan 
are otherwise acceptable to the ACCC. 
Appointment of the Approved Monitoring Trustee  
8.7. 
After receiving a written notice from the ACCC of its approval of the Proposed 
Monitoring Trustee, the draft terms of appointment and draft separation and 
management plan, Sika must by the Control Date: 


12 
 
(a) appoint the person approved by the ACCC as the Approved Monitoring 
Trustee on the Approved Terms of Appointment; and 
(b) forward to the ACCC a copy of the executed Approved Terms of 
Appointment. 
Failure to appoint 
8.8. 
If: 
(a) the Approved Monitoring Trustee has not been appointed by the Control 
Date; 
(b) the Approved Monitoring Trustee has not been appointed within 15 Business 
Days after the Approved Monitoring Trustee resigns or otherwise ceases to 
act as the Approved Monitoring Trustee pursuant to clause 8.13, 8.14 or 
8.15; or 
(c) 
the ACCC has not received a Proposed Monitoring Trustee Notice pursuant 
to clause 8.3; 
then clause 8.9 applies. 
8.9. 
If clause 8.8 applies, the ACCC may, in its discretion: 
(a) identify and approve a person as the Approved Monitoring Trustee, including 
approving the draft terms of appointment of the Approved Monitoring 
Trustee and the draft separation and management plan; and/or 
(b) direct Sika to appoint a person who the ACCC has deemed is an Approved 
Monitoring Trustee.   
Obligations and powers of the Approved Monitoring Trustee 
8.10. 
Sika must procure that any proposed terms of appointment for the Approved 
Monitoring Trustee include obligations on the Approved Monitoring Trustee to:  
(a) maintain his or her independence from Sika, apart from appointment to the 
role of Approved Monitoring Trustee, including not forming any relationship 
of the types described in paragraph 2.2(c) of Schedule 3 to this Undertaking 
with Sika for the period of his or her appointment;  
(b) act in the best interests of the Divestiture Business at all times including 
ensuring that the Divestiture Business is managed and operated in the 
ordinary course of business as a fully operational, competitive going concern 
and in such a way that preserves the economic viability, marketability, 
competitiveness and goodwill of the Divestiture Business at the Control 
Date; 
(c) 
not use any Confidential Information gained through the management of the 
Divestiture Business other than for performing his or her functions as 
Approved Monitoring Trustee; 
(d) make only those Material Changes to the Divestiture Business which the 
ACCC does not object to; 


13 
 
(e) operate and manage the Divestiture Business to the maximum extent 
practicable, in a manner which is financially and operationally separate from 
Sika; 
(f) 
co-operate with the requests of any Approved Divestiture Trustee or 
Approved Independent Auditor appointed pursuant to this Undertaking; 
(g) provide the following reports directly to the ACCC: 
(i) 
a monthly written report (within 15 days after the end of every month) 
regarding the implementation of and any suggested changes to the 
Approved Separation and Management Plan; and 
(ii) 
an immediate report of any issues that arise in relation to the 
implementation of the Approved Separation and Management Plan or 
Sika’s compliance with this Undertaking; and 
(h) follow any direction given to him or her by the ACCC in relation to the 
performance of his or her functions as the Approved Monitoring Trustee 
pursuant to this Undertaking. 
8.11. 
Sika must procure that any proposed terms of appointment for the Approved 
Monitoring Trustee provide the Approved Monitoring Trustee with the sole 
authority to:  
(a) manage and operate the Divestiture Business, in close co-operation with the 
Hold Separate Manager, according to the Approved Separation and 
Management Plan until the completion of the divestiture of the Divestiture 
Business; 
(b) provide any information requested by Sika pursuant to the protocol in the 
Approved Separation and Management Plan;  
(c) 
decide whether or not to provide access and the manner of such access to 
competitively sensitive information relating to the Divestiture Business 
requested by Sika which is not covered by the protocol in the Approved 
Separation and Management Plan; 
(d) in close co-operation with the Hold Separate Manager, renew or replace 
upon expiry Material Contracts and enter into new contracts for the provision 
of goods or services to the Divestiture Business on commercial terms 
favourable to the Divestiture Business; 
(e) in close co-operation with the Hold Separate Manager, engage, redeploy or 
make redundant personnel employed in the Divestiture Business as the 
Approved Monitoring Trustee determines necessary; and 
(f) 
engage any external expertise, assistance or advice required by the 
Approved Monitoring Trustee to perform his or her functions as the 
Approved Monitoring Trustee.  
Sika’s obligations in relation to the Approved Monitoring Trustee 
8.12. 
Without limiting its obligations in this Undertaking, Sika must: 
(a) comply with and enforce the Approved Terms of Appointment of the 
Approved Monitoring Trustee;  


14 
 
(b) maintain and fund the Approved Monitoring Trustee to carry out his or her 
functions, including:  
(i) 
indemnifying the Approved Monitoring Trustee for any expenses, 
loss, claim or damage arising directly or indirectly from the 
performance by the Approved Monitoring Trustee of his or her 
functions as the Approved Monitoring Trustee except where such 
expenses, loss, claim or damage arises out of the gross negligence, 
fraud, misconduct or breach of duty by the Approved Monitoring 
Trustee;  
(ii) 
ensuring that the Approved Monitoring Trustee is fully able to 
acquire and pay for sufficient and timely delivery of all goods and 
services (including from third parties) which the Approved Monitoring 
Trustee considers are required by the Divestiture Business; and 
(iii) 
providing and paying for any external expertise, assistance or advice 
required by the Approved Monitoring Trustee to perform his or her 
functions as the Approved Monitoring Trustee; and 
(c) 
not interfere with the authority of, or otherwise hinder, the Approved 
Monitoring Trustee’s ability to carry out his or her obligations as the 
Approved Monitoring Trustee, including: 
(i) 
accepting (and directing its directors, contractors, managers, 
officers, employees and agents to accept) direction from the 
Approved Monitoring Trustee as to the control, management, 
financing and operations of the Divestiture Business, and for the 
Divestiture Business to meet all legal, corporate, financial, 
accounting, taxation, audit and regulatory obligations;  
(ii) 
providing access to the facilities, sites or operations of the 
Divestiture Business required by the Approved Monitoring Trustee; 
(iii) 
providing to the Approved Monitoring Trustee any information or 
documents that he or she considers necessary for managing and 
operating the Divestiture Business or for reporting to or otherwise 
advising the ACCC;  
(iv) 
not requesting information or reports regarding the Divestiture 
Business from the personnel of the Divestiture Business except 
through the Approved Monitoring Trustee; and 
(v) 
not appointing the Approved Monitoring Trustee, or have any 
Agreements with the Approved Monitoring Trustee, to utilise the 
Approved Monitoring Trustee’s services for anything other than 
compliance with this Undertaking until at least 12 months after the 
Approved Monitoring Trustee ceases to act in the role of the 
Approved Monitoring Trustee. 
Resignation, revocation or termination of the Approved Monitoring Trustee 
8.13. 
Sika must immediately notify the ACCC in the event that the Approved Monitoring 
Trustee resigns or otherwise stops acting as the Approved Monitoring Trustee 
before the completion of the divestiture of the Divestiture Business.  


15 
 
8.14. 
The ACCC may revoke an Approved Monitoring Trustee’s status as the Approved 
Monitoring Trustee if the ACCC becomes aware that any information provided to 
it was incorrect, inaccurate or misleading.  
8.15. 
The ACCC may approve any proposal by, or alternatively may direct, Sika to 
terminate the appointment of the Approved Monitoring Trustee if in the ACCC’s 
view the Approved Monitoring Trustee acts inconsistently with the provisions of 
this Undertaking or the Approved Terms of Appointment. 
9. 
Independent Audit 
Obligation to appoint an Approved Independent Auditor 
9.1. 
Sika must appoint and maintain an Approved Independent Auditor to audit and 
report upon Sika’s compliance with this Undertaking in so far as it concerns the 
Australian Divestiture Business. 
Process for approving a Proposed Independent Auditor 
9.2. 
At least 15 Business Days before the Control Date, Sika must provide the ACCC 
with a notice for a Proposed Independent Auditor in the form prescribed in 
Schedule 3 to this Undertaking (Proposed Independent Auditor Notice), 
including draft terms of appointment and a draft audit plan.  
9.3. 
The Approved Independent Auditor is to be appointed for a term of two years.  
Within 15 Business Days of the end of the Approved Independent Auditor’s term, 
Sika must provide the ACCC with a new Proposed Independent Auditor Notice. A 
person who is, or who has been, the Approved Independent Auditor is eligible for 
reappointment as the Approved Independent Auditor.  
9.4. 
If clauses 9.17, 9.18 or 9.19 apply, Sika must provide the ACCC with a Proposed 
Independent Auditor Notice within five Business Days after the relevant event 
occurs, otherwise clause 9.9 applies.  
9.5. 
The ACCC shall have the discretion to approve or reject in writing the Proposed 
Independent Auditor identified in the Proposed Independent Auditor Notice.  
9.6. 
Without limiting the ACCC’s discretion, in deciding whether to approve a 
Proposed Independent Auditor, the factors to which the ACCC may have regard 
include whether the:  
(a) 
person named in the Proposed Independent Auditor Notice or identified 
by the ACCC has the qualifications and experience necessary to carry 
out the functions of the Approved Independent Auditor;  
(b) 
person named in the Proposed Independent Auditor Notice or identified 
by the ACCC is sufficiently independent of Sika;  
(c) 
draft terms of appointment and the draft audit plan are consistent with 
this Undertaking; and 
(d) 
draft terms of appointment and the draft audit plan are otherwise 
acceptable to the ACCC. 
Appointment of the Approved Independent Auditor 
9.7. 
After receiving a written notice from the ACCC of its approval of a Proposed 
Independent Auditor, the draft terms of appointment and draft audit plan, Sika 
must by the Control Date: 


16 
 
(a) appoint the person approved by the ACCC as the Approved Independent 
Auditor on the Approved Terms of Appointment; and 
(b) forward to the ACCC a copy of the executed Approved Terms of 
Appointment. 
Failure to appoint 
9.8. 
If: 
(a) the Approved Independent Auditor has not been appointed by the Control 
Date;  
(b) the Approved Independent Auditor has not been appointed within 15 
Business Days after the Approved Independent Auditor resigns or otherwise 
ceases to act as the Approved Independent Auditor pursuant to clause 9.17, 
9.18, or 9.19; or  
(c) 
the ACCC has not received a Proposed Independent Auditor Notice 
pursuant to clause 9.2;  
then clause 9.9 applies. 
9.9. 
If clause 9.8 applies, the ACCC at its absolute discretion may: 
(a) identify and approve a person as the Approved Independent Auditor, 
including approving the draft terms of appointment and draft audit plan; 
and/or 
(b) direct Sika to appoint a person who the ACCC has deemed is an Approved 
Independent Auditor. 
Obligations and powers of the Approved Independent Auditor 
9.10. 
Sika must procure that any proposed terms of appointment for the Approved 
Independent Auditor include obligations on the Approved Independent Auditor to:  
(a) maintain his or her independence from Sika, apart from appointment to the 
role of Approved Independent Auditor, including not forming any relationship 
of the types described in paragraph 2.2(c) of Schedule 3 to this Undertaking 
with Sika for the period of his or her appointment;  
(b) conduct compliance auditing according to the Approved Audit Plan; 
(c) 
where requested by the ACCC, assess the suitability of any Proposed 
Purchaser or potential purchaser of the Divestiture Business against the 
factors (as relevant) in clause 6.7; 
(d) provide the following reports directly to the ACCC: 
(i) 
a scheduled written Audit Report as described in clause 9.12;  
(ii) 
an immediate report of any issues that arise in relation to the 
performance of his or her functions as Approved Independent 
Auditor or in relation to compliance with this Undertaking by any 
person named in this Undertaking; and 


17 
 
(iii) 
where requested by the ACCC, a report on the suitability of any 
Proposed Purchaser or potential purchaser of the Divestiture 
Business following an assessment under clause 9.10(c); and  
(e) follow any direction given to him or her by the ACCC in relation to the 
performance of his or her functions as Approved Independent Auditor under 
this Undertaking. 
9.11. 
Sika must procure that any proposed terms of appointment for the Approved 
Independent Auditor provide the Approved Independent Auditor with the authority 
to:  
(a) access the facilities, sites or operations of the Divestiture Business and 
Sika’s other businesses as required by the Approved Independent Auditor;  
(b) access any information or documents that the Approved Independent 
Auditor considers necessary for carrying out his or her functions as the 
Approved Independent Auditor or for reporting to or otherwise advising the 
ACCC; and 
(c) 
engage any external expertise, assistance or advice required by the 
Approved Independent Auditor to perform his or her functions as the 
Approved Independent Auditor.  
Compliance Audit  
9.12. 
The Approved Independent Auditor must conduct an audit and prepare a detailed 
report (Audit Report) that includes: 
(a) the Approved Independent Auditor’s procedures in conducting the audit, or 
any change to audit procedures and processes since the previous Audit 
Report; 
(b) a full audit of Sika’s compliance with this Undertaking;  
(c) 
identification of any areas of uncertainty or ambiguity in the Approved 
Independent Auditor’s interpretation of any obligations contained in this 
Undertaking; 
(d) all of the reasons for the conclusions reached in the Audit Report; 
(e) any qualifications made by the Approved Independent Auditor in forming his 
or her views;  
(f) 
any recommendations by the Approved Independent Auditor to improve: 
(i) 
the Approved Audit Plan; 
(ii) 
the integrity of the auditing process;  
(iii) 
Sika’s processes or reporting systems in relation to compliance with 
this Undertaking; and 
(iv) 
Sika’s compliance with this Undertaking; and 
(g) the implementation and outcome of any prior recommendations by the 
Approved Independent Auditor.  


18 
 
9.13. 
The Approved Independent Auditor is to provide an Audit Report to the ACCC 
and Sika at the following times:  
(a) within 20 Business Days after the Control Date, at which time the Audit 
Report is to include the results of the initial audit and any recommended 
changes to the Approved Audit Plan, including the Approved Independent 
Auditor’s proposed procedures and processes for conducting the audit 
(Establishment Audit);  
(b) every month from the date of the Establishment Audit until one month after 
the divestiture of the Divestiture Business is completed;  
(c) 
every three months after the date of provision of the last Audit Report 
pursuant to clause 9.13(b), until the ACCC confirms in writing to Sika that it 
is satisfied that Sika has fulfilled its obligations pursuant to this Undertaking; 
and 
(d) if requested by the ACCC, a final report due three months after the last 
report provided pursuant to clause 9.13(c). 
9.14. 
Sika must implement any recommendations made by the Approved Independent 
Auditor in Audit Reports, and notify the ACCC of the implementation of the 
recommendations, within 10 Business Days after receiving the Audit Report or 
such other period as agreed in writing with the ACCC.  
9.15. 
Sika must comply with any direction of the ACCC in relation to matters arising 
from the Audit Report within 10 Business Days after being so directed (or such 
other period as agreed in writing with the ACCC).  
Sika’s obligations in relation to the Approved Independent Auditor 
9.16. 
Without limiting its obligations in this Undertaking, Sika must: 
(a) comply with and enforce the Approved Terms of Appointment for the 
Approved Independent Auditor;  
(b) maintain and fund the Approved Independent Auditor to carry out his or her 
functions including:  
(i) 
indemnifying the Approved Independent Auditor for any expenses, 
loss, claim or damage arising directly or indirectly from the 
performance by the Approved Independent Auditor of his or her 
functions as the Approved Independent Auditor except where such 
expenses, loss, claim or damage arises out of the gross negligence, 
fraud, misconduct or breach of duty by the Approved Independent 
Auditor;  
(ii) 
providing and paying for any external expertise, assistance or advice 
required by the Approved Independent Auditor to perform his or her 
functions as the Approved Independent Auditor; and 
(c) 
not interfere with, or otherwise hinder, the Approved Independent Auditor’s 
ability to carry out his or her functions as the Approved Independent Auditor, 
including: 
(i) 
directing Sika personnel, including directors, contractors, managers, 
officers, employees and agents, to act in accordance with this 
clause 9;  


19 
 
(ii) 
providing access to the facilities, sites or operations of the 
Divestiture Business and Sika’s other businesses as required by the 
Approved Independent Auditor; 
(iii) 
providing to the Approved Independent Auditor any information or 
documents he or she considers necessary for carrying out his or her 
functions as the Approved Independent Auditor or for reporting to or 
otherwise advising the ACCC; 
(iv) 
not requesting any information relating to the compliance audit from 
the Approved Independent Auditor without such a request having 
been approved by the ACCC; and 
(v) 
not appointing the Approved Independent Auditor, or have any 
Agreements with the Approved Independent Auditor, to utilise the 
Approved Independent Auditor’s services for anything other than 
compliance with this Undertaking until at least 12 months after the 
Approved Independent Auditor ceases to act in the role of the 
Approved Independent Auditor. 
Resignation, revocation or termination of the Approved Independent Auditor  
9.17. 
Sika must immediately notify the ACCC in the event that the Approved 
Independent Auditor resigns or otherwise stops acting as the Approved 
Independent Auditor.  
9.18. 
The ACCC may revoke an Approved Independent Auditor’s status as the 
Approved Independent Auditor if the ACCC becomes aware that any information 
provided to it was incorrect, inaccurate or misleading.  
9.19. 
The ACCC may approve any proposal by, or alternatively may direct, Sika to 
terminate the appointment of the Approved Independent Auditor if in the ACCC’s 
view the Approved Independent Auditor acts inconsistently with the provisions of 
this Undertaking and/or the Approved Terms of Appointment or the Approved 
Independent Auditor fails to perform their role to an adequate standard.  
10. 
Failure to divest the Divestiture Business within the Initial 
Divestiture Period 
Divestiture of the Unsold Business 
10.1. 
In the event that the divestiture of the Divestiture Business to an Approved 
Purchaser is not completed by the end of the Initial Divestiture Period, the 
Divestiture Business becomes an unsold business (Unsold Business) and the 
provisions of this clause 10 apply.  
Obligation to appoint a Divestiture Trustee 
10.2. 
From the end of the Initial Divestiture Period, Sika must appoint and maintain an 
Approved Divestiture Trustee to effect the divestiture of the Unsold Business. 
Process for approving a Proposed Divestiture Trustee 
10.3. 
At least 15 Business Days prior to the end of the Initial Divestiture Period, if: 
(a) the divestiture of the Divestiture Business has not been completed; or 


20 
 
(b) Sika is required to appoint a Divestiture Trustee under the EC 
Commitments,  
Sika must provide the ACCC with a notice for a Proposed Divestiture Trustee in 
the form of Schedule 3 to this Undertaking (Proposed Divestiture Trustee 
Notice) including draft terms of appointment, a draft business sale agreement, 
and draft marketing and sale plan.  
10.4. 
If clauses 10.15, 10.16 or 10.17 apply, Sika must provide the ACCC with a 
Proposed Divestiture Trustee Notice within five Business Days after the relevant 
event occurs. 
10.5. 
The ACCC shall have the discretion to approve or reject in writing the Proposed 
Divestiture Trustee.  
10.6. 
Without limiting the ACCC’s discretion, in deciding whether to approve a 
Proposed Divestiture Trustee, the factors to which the ACCC may have regard 
include whether the:  
(a) 
person named in the Proposed Divestiture Trustee Notice or identified by 
the ACCC has the qualifications and experience necessary to carry out 
the functions of the Approved Divestiture Trustee;  
(b) 
person named in the Proposed Divestiture Trustee Notice or identified by 
the ACCC is sufficiently independent of Sika; 
(c) 
draft terms of appointment, draft business sale agreement and draft 
marketing and sale plan are consistent with this Undertaking; and 
(d) 
draft terms of appointment, draft business sale agreement and draft 
marketing and sale plan are otherwise acceptable to the ACCC. 
Appointment of the Approved Divestiture Trustee  
10.7. 
After receiving written notice from the ACCC of its approval of the Proposed 
Divestiture Trustee, the draft terms of appointment, draft business sale 
agreement and draft marketing and sale plan, Sika must within two Business 
Days: 
(a) appoint the person approved by the ACCC as the Approved Divestiture 
Trustee on the Approved Terms of Appointment; and 
(b) forward to the ACCC a copy of the executed Approved Terms of 
Appointment.  
Failure to appoint 
10.8. 
If: 
(a) the Approved Divestiture Trustee has not been appointed within 10 
Business Days after the Divestiture Business becomes an Unsold Business;  
(b) the Approved Divestiture Trustee has not been appointed within 15 
Business Days after the Approved Divestiture Trustee resigns or otherwise 
ceases to act pursuant to clauses 10.15, 10.16 or 10.17; or  
(c) 
the ACCC has not received a Proposed Divestiture Trustee Notice pursuant 
to clause 10.4; 


21 
 
then clause 10.9 applies. 
10.9. 
If clause 10.8 applies, the ACCC may, at its absolute discretion, having regard to 
Sika’s obligations under the EC Commitments: 
(a) identify and approve a person as the Approved Divestiture Trustee, 
including approving the draft terms of appointment of the Approved 
Divestiture Trustee, draft business sale agreement and draft marketing and 
sale plan; and/or 
(b) direct Sika to appoint a person who the ACCC has deemed is an Approved 
Divestiture Trustee 
10.10. For the avoidance of doubt, the intention of clause 10.9 is not to oblige Sika to 
take any step or engage in any act that would cause it to be in breach of the EC 
Commitments or any applicable laws. 
Obligations and powers of the Approved Divestiture Trustee 
10.11. Sika must procure that any proposed terms of appointment for the Approved 
Divestiture Trustee include obligations on the Approved Divestiture Trustee to:  
(a) divest the Unsold Business only to an Approved Purchaser, at no minimum 
price;   
(b) maintain his or her independence from Sika, apart from appointment to the 
role of Approved Divestiture Trustee, including not form any relationship of 
the types described in paragraph 2.2(c) of Schedule 3 to this Undertaking 
with Sika for the period of his or her appointment;  
(c) 
not use any Confidential Information gained through the divestiture of the 
Unsold Business other than for performing his or her functions as the 
Approved Divestiture Trustee; 
(d) follow the Approved Marketing and Sale Plan;  
(e) use his or her best endeavours to enter into a binding agreement for the 
divestiture of the Unsold Business as quickly as possible using the 
Approved Business Sale Agreement;  
(f) 
co-operate with the requests of any Approved Monitoring Trustee or 
Approved Independent Auditor appointed pursuant to this Undertaking; 
(g) within 15 days after the end of every month following appointment of the 
Approved Divestiture Agent, provide written reports directly to the ACCC 
which include: 
(i) 
information regarding the implementation of the Approved Business 
Sale Agreement and the Approved Marketing and Sale Plan 
including any previous changes approved by the ACCC; 
(ii) 
information regarding any suggested changes to any Approved 
Marketing and Sale Plan including any previous changes approved 
by the ACCC; 
(iii) 
an account and explanation of all disbursements, fees and charges 
incurred by the Approved Divestiture Trustee in undertaking his or 
her duties by month and to the date of the report; 


22 
 
(iv) 
a schedule of agreed fees of the Approved Divestiture Trustee 
(including the fees of any adviser appointed under clause 10.12(d)); 
(v) 
the efforts made to sell the Unsold Business; 
(vi) 
the identity of any advisers engaged; 
(vii) 
the identity of any persons expressing interest in the Unsold 
Business; and 
(viii) any other information required by the ACCC. 
(h) within 30 Business Days after the completion of the divestiture of the Unsold 
Business, provide a written report directly to the ACCC which includes a 
final accounting of: 
(i) 
any moneys derived from the divestiture of the Unsold Business; 
(ii) 
all disbursements, fees and charges incurred by the Approved 
Divestiture Trustee in fulfilling his or her duties; and 
(iii) 
all agreed fees of the Approved Divestiture Trustee (including the 
fees of any adviser appointed under clause 10.12(d); 
(i) 
immediately inform the ACCC of: 
(i) 
any issues that arise in relation to the implementation of the 
Approved Business Sale Agreement and any Approved Marketing 
and Sale Plan; 
(ii) 
non-compliance with this Undertaking by any person named in this 
Undertaking;  
(iii) 
any offers for the Unsold Business; 
(j) 
accept any offer for the Unsold Business upon instruction from Sika given in 
accordance with clause 11.1(d); and 
(k) 
follow any direction given to him or her by the ACCC in relation to the 
performance of his or her functions as the Approved Divestiture Trustee 
pursuant to this Undertaking. 
10.12. Sika must procure that any proposed terms of appointment for the Approved 
Divestiture Trustee contain an irrevocable grant of power of attorney conferring all 
necessary power and authority on the Approved Divestiture Trustee to: 
(a) negotiate with potential purchasers to divest the Unsold Business on terms 
considered by the Approved Divestiture Trustee in his or her sole discretion 
to be consistent with this Undertaking and the Approved Marketing and Sale 
Plan; 
(b) execute any agreements with the Approved Purchaser required pursuant to 
clause 6.6; 
(c) 
upon instruction pursuant to clause 11.1(d), complete the divestiture of the 
Unsold Business to the Approved Purchaser in accordance with the 
Approved Business Sale Agreement; and 


23 
 
(d) engage any external expertise, assistance or advice required by the 
Approved Divestiture Trustee to perform his or her functions as the 
Approved Divestiture Trustee. 
10.13. Any irrevocable power of attorney granted pursuant to clause 10.12 will end upon 
resignation or termination of the Approved Divestiture Trustee in accordance with 
clauses 10.15, 10.16 and 10.17, or in the event that the Unsold Business is 
divested in accordance with this Undertaking. 
Sika’s obligations in relation to the Divestiture Trustee 
10.14. Without limiting its obligations in this Undertaking, Sika must from the end of the 
Initial Divestiture Period: 
(a) comply with and enforce the Approved Terms of Appointment for the 
Approved Divestiture Trustee;  
(b) maintain and fund the Approved Divestiture Trustee to carry out his or her 
functions, including:  
(i) 
indemnifying the Approved Divestiture Trustee for any expenses, 
loss, claim or damage arising directly or indirectly from the 
performance by the Approved Divestiture Trustee of his or her 
functions as the Divestiture Trustee except where such expenses, 
loss, claim or damage arises out of the gross negligence, fraud, 
misconduct or breach of duty by the Approved Divestiture Trustee;  
(ii) 
providing and paying for any external expertise, assistance or advice 
required by the Approved Divestiture Trustee to perform his or her 
functions as the Approved Divestiture Trustee;  
(iii) 
paying such fees as are agreed between the Approved Divestiture 
Trustee and Sika (but not fees contingent on the price to be obtained 
for the Unsold Business); and 
(iv) 
if an agreement as to fees cannot be reached between the Approved 
Divestiture Trustee and Sika within 15 Business Days after the end 
of the Initial Divestiture Period, Sika agrees to pay such fees as are 
directed by the ACCC; 
(c) 
not interfere with, or otherwise hinder, the Approved Divestiture Trustee’s 
ability to carry out his or her functions as the Approved Divestiture Trustee, 
including: 
(i) 
directing its personnel, including directors, contractors, managers, 
officers, employees and agents, to act in accordance with this 
clause 10;  
(ii) 
providing access to the facilities, sites or operations of the Unsold 
Business as required by the Approved Divestiture Trustee; and 
(iii) 
providing to the Approved Divestiture Trustee any information, 
documents or other assistance he or she considers necessary for 
carrying out his or her functions as the Approved Divestiture Trustee 
or for reporting to or otherwise advising the ACCC; 
(d) within three Business Days after receiving notice from the ACCC pursuant to 
clause 6.6, Sika must instruct the Approved Divestiture Trustee to complete 


24 
 
the divestiture of the Unsold Business to the Approved Purchaser in 
accordance with the documents approved by the ACCC pursuant to clause 
6.6; and 
(e) other than in accordance with clause 10.14(d) of this Undertaking, not 
instruct the Approved Divestiture Trustee to divest the Unsold Business.  
Resignation, revocation or termination of the Divestiture Trustee 
10.15. Sika must immediately notify the ACCC in the event that an Approved Divestiture 
Trustee resigns or otherwise stops acting as a divestiture trustee before the 
completion of the divestiture of the Unsold Business.  
10.16. The ACCC may revoke an Approved Divestiture Trustee’s status as the Approved 
Divestiture Trustee if the ACCC becomes aware that any information provided to 
it was incorrect, inaccurate or misleading.  
10.17. The ACCC may approve any proposal by, or alternatively may direct, Sika to 
terminate an Approved Divestiture Trustee if in the ACCC's view the Approved 
Divestiture Trustee acts inconsistently with the provisions of this Undertaking or 
the Approved Terms of Appointment. 
 
11. 
Notification of key dates and ACCC requests for information 
11.1. 
Sika must notify the ACCC and each Undertaking Appointment in writing of:   
(a) the anticipated date of the Control Date, at least five Business Days before 
that date;  
(b) the anticipated date of the completion of the divestiture of the Divestiture 
Business or Unsold Business (as applicable), at least five Business Days 
before that date; 
(c) 
the occurrence of the Control Date, within one Business Day of that date; 
and 
(d) the occurrence of the completion of the divestiture of the Divestiture 
Business or Unsold Business (as applicable), within one Business Day of 
that date. 
11.2. 
The ACCC may direct Sika in respect of its compliance with this Undertaking to, 
and Sika must: 
(a) furnish information to the ACCC in the time and in the form requested by the 
ACCC; 
(b) produce documents and materials to the ACCC within Sika's custody, power 
or control in the time and in the form requested by the ACCC; and/or 
(c) 
attend the ACCC at a time and place appointed by the ACCC to answer any 
questions the ACCC (its Commissioners, its staff or its agents) may have. 
11.3. 
Any direction made by the ACCC under clause 11.2 will be notified to Sika, in 
accordance with clause 19.2. 


25 
 
11.4. 
In respect of Sika's compliance with this Undertaking or an Undertaking 
Appointment’s compliance with its Approved Terms of Appointment, the ACCC 
may request any Undertaking Appointment to: 
(a) furnish information to the ACCC in the time and in the form requested by the 
ACCC; 
(b) produce documents and materials to the ACCC within the Undertaking 
Appointment's custody, power or control in the time and in the form 
requested by the ACCC; and/or  
(c) 
attend the ACCC at a time and place appointed by the ACCC to answer any 
questions the ACCC (its Commissioners, its staff or its agents) may have. 
11.5. 
Sika will use its best endeavours to ensure that an Undertaking Appointment 
complies with any request from the ACCC in accordance with clause 11.4. 
11.6. 
Information furnished, documents and material produced or information given in 
response to any request or direction from the ACCC under this clause 11 may be 
used by the ACCC for any purpose consistent with the exercise of its statutory 
duties. 
11.7. 
The ACCC may in its discretion:  
(a) advise any Undertaking Appointment of any request made by it under this 
clause 11; and/or 
(b) provide copies to any Undertaking Appointment of any information 
furnished, documents and material produced or information given to it under 
this clause 11.  
11.8. 
Nothing in this clause 11 requires the provision of information or documents in 
respect of which Sika has a claim of legal professional or other privilege. 
 
12. 
Disclosure of this Undertaking 
12.1. 
Sika and the ACCC agree that Confidential Schedule 6 will remain confidential 
until after the completion of the divestiture of the Divestiture Business or Unsold 
Business and, subject to this clause 12.1, Confidential Schedules 4A, 5, 7, 8, 9 
and 10 will remain confidential. 
12.2. 
Sika acknowledges that the ACCC may provide each Undertaking Appointment 
with a copy of this Undertaking which includes unredacted versions of 
Confidential Schedules 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10. 
12.3. 
Sika acknowledges that the ACCC may, subject to clause 12.1:  
(a) make this Undertaking publicly available;  
(b) publish this Undertaking on its Public Section 87B Undertakings Register 
and Public Mergers Register; and 
(c) 
from time to time publicly refer to this Undertaking.  
12.4. 
Nothing in clause 12.1 or the confidential parts of this Undertaking referred to in 
clause 12.1 prevents the ACCC from disclosing such information as is: 


26 
 
(a) required by law; 
(b) permitted by section 155AAA of the Act; 
(c) 
necessary for the purpose of enforcement action under section 87B of the 
Act; or 
(d) necessary for the purpose of making such market inquiries as the ACCC 
thinks fit to assess the impact on competition arising in connection with this 
Undertaking. 
12.5. 
Nothing in clause 12.1 or the confidential parts of this Undertaking referred to in 
clause 12.1 prevents the ACCC from using the information contained in this 
Undertaking for any purpose consistent with its statutory functions and powers. 
 
13. 
Obligation to procure 
13.1. 
Where the performance of an obligation under this Undertaking requires a 
Related Body Corporate of Sika to take or refrain from taking some action, Sika 
will procure that Related Body Corporate to take or refrain from taking that action.   
 
14. 
No derogation 
14.1. 
This Undertaking does not prevent the ACCC from taking enforcement action at 
any time whether during or after the period of this Undertaking in respect of any 
breach by Sika of any term of this Undertaking. 
14.2. 
Nothing in this Undertaking is intended to restrict the right of the ACCC to take 
action under the Act for penalties or other remedies in the event that Sika does 
not fully implement and/or perform its obligations under this Undertaking or in any 
other event where the ACCC decides to take action under the Act for penalties or 
other remedies. 
 
15. 
Change of Control  
15.1. 
In the event that a Change of Control is reasonably expected to occur, Sika must:  
(a) notify the ACCC of this expectation as soon as practicable; and 
(b) only implement a Change of Control to another person or entity if that 
person or entity has given a section 87B undertaking to the ACCC that 
requires it to comply with the same obligations as are imposed on Sika 
pursuant to this Undertaking, or on terms that are otherwise acceptable to 
the ACCC, unless the ACCC has notified Sika in writing that a section 87B 
undertaking under this clause 15 is not required. 
16. 
Costs 
16.1. 
Sika must pay all of its own costs incurred in relation to this Undertaking. 
 


27 
 
17. 
Jurisdiction  
17.1. 
Sika irrevocably submits to the jurisdiction of the Federal Court of Australia in 
relation to this Undertaking. 
17.2. 
Unless and until notified in writing by Sika to the ACCC of the appointment of 
another person as agent within Australia, Sika appoints Sika Australia Pty Ltd 
(ACN 001 342 329), as its agent for the purposes of service of process in relation 
to this Undertaking. 
17.3. 
Sika appoints the following person for the purpose of this clause 17: 
Raffaella Marzi 
Head of Corporate HR and Compliance 
Sika AG 
Zugerstrasse 50, 6340 Baar, Switzerland 
+41 58 436 68 59 
marzi.raffaella@ch.sika.com 
18. 
Resolving inconsistencies 
18.1. 
To the extent there are inconsistencies between this Undertaking and any of the 
following: 
(a) Approved Sale and Purchase Agreement; 
(b) Approved Transitional Technical Assistance Agreement; or 
(c) 
Approved Transitional Supply Agreement, 
as regards to Sika's obligations pursuant to this Undertaking, this Undertaking 
prevails. 
19. 
Notices 
Giving Notices 
19.1. 
Any notice or communication to the ACCC pursuant to this Undertaking must be 
sent to: 
Email address:  
mergers@accc.gov.au  
 
Attention: Executive General Manager 
 
Merger, Exemptions & Digital Division 
With a copy sent to: 
mergersru@accc.gov.au 
 
Attention: Director, Remedies Unit 
 
Policy, Coordination & Remedies Branch 
 
Merger, Exemptions & Digital Division 
19.2. 
Any notice or communication to Sika pursuant to this Undertaking must be sent 
to:  
Name:   
Raffaella Marzi 
Address:  
Zugerstrasse 50, 6340 Baar, Switzerland 
 


28 
 
Email Address:   marzi.raffaella@ch.sika.com 
With a copy sent to: 
Name:   
Georgina Foster 
Address:  
Baker McKenzie 
Level 46, 100 Barangaroo Avenue, Sydney NSW 2000  
Email Address: georgina.foster@bakermckenzie.com 
19.3. 
If sent by post, notices are taken to be received three Business Days after 
posting (or seven Business Days after posting if sent to or from a place outside 
Australia). 
19.4. 
If sent by email, notices are taken to be received at the time shown in the email 
as the time the email was sent. 
Change of contact details 
19.5. 
Sika must notify the ACCC of a change to its contact details within three Business 
Days.   
19.6. 
Any notice or communication will be sent to the most recently advised contact 
details and subject to clauses 19.3 and 19.4, will be taken to be received.  
 
20. 
Defined terms and interpretation  
Definitions in the Dictionary 
20.1. 
 A term or expression starting with a capital letter: 
(a) which is defined in the Dictionary in Part 1 of Schedule 1 (Dictionary), has 
the meaning given to it in the Dictionary; or 
(b) which is defined in the Corporations Act, but is not defined in the Dictionary, 
has the meaning given to it in the Corporations Act. 
Interpretation 
20.2. 
Part  2 of Schedule 1 sets out rules of interpretation for this Undertaking. 


29 
Executed as an Undertaking 
Executed by Sika AG by its authorised signatory in the presence of: 
Witness: 
__________________ 
Authorised signatories: 
______________   ______________ 
Matthias Bellwald 
Head Corporate M&A 
Adrian Widmer    
 Raffaella Marzi 
CFO Sika Group     Head Corporate HR 
  and Compliance 
Date: April 12, 2023 
Date: April 12, 2023 
Executed by Sika Australia Pty Ltd (ACN 001 342 329) pursuant to section 127(1) of the 
Corporations Act 2001 by: 
Signature of director 
Signature of a director/company secretary 
Name of director (print) 
Name of director/company secretary (print) 
Date 
Date 
Gerhardus Smit
13.04.2023
--------
--------


30 
 
Accepted by the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission pursuant 
to section 87B of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth) on: 
 
 
 
Date 
 
and signed on behalf of the Commission: 
 
 
 
Chair 
 
 
 
Date 
  
 
18 April 2023
18 April 2023


31 
 
Schedule 1 – Dictionary and interpretation  
1. 
Dictionary 
ACCC means the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission. 
Act means the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth). 
Agreements means any contract, arrangement or understanding, including any contract, 
arrangement or understanding to renew, amend, vary or extend any contract, 
arrangement or understanding.  
Approved Audit Plan means the plan approved by the ACCC in accordance with the 
terms of this Undertaking, by which the Approved Independent Auditor will audit and 
report upon compliance with this Undertaking. 
Approved Business Sale Agreement means the standard form contract for the 
divestiture of the Unsold Business which has been approved by the ACCC in accordance 
with the terms of this Undertaking.  
Approved Divestiture Trustee means one or more natural or legal person(s) who is/are 
approved by the ACCC and appointed under clause 10 of this Undertaking.  
Approved Independent Auditor means the person approved by the ACCC and 
appointed under clause 9 of this Undertaking. 
Approved Monitoring Trustee means one or more natural or legal person(s) who is/are 
approved by the ACCC and appointed under clause 8 of this Undertaking. 
Approved Marketing and Sale Plan means the plan approved by the ACCC in 
accordance with the terms of this Undertaking, by which the Approved Divestiture Agent 
will market and effect the divestiture of the Unsold Business. 
Approved Purchaser means the person approved by the ACCC under clause 6 of this 
Undertaking. 
Approved Sale and Purchase Agreement means the contract approved by the ACCC 
in accordance with the terms of this Undertaking, by which the Sika will divest the 
Divestiture Businesses to the Approved Purchaser and the Approved Purchaser will 
acquire the Divestiture Business from Sika. 
Approved Separation and Management Plan means the plan approved by the ACCC 
in accordance with the terms of this Undertaking, by which the Approved Monitoring 
Trustee will: 
a) 
oversee the separation of the Divestiture Business from any business to 
be retained by Sika; and  
b) 
oversee, in close cooperation with the Hold Separate Manager, the 
ongoing management and operation of the Divestiture Business 
independent of Sika and any retained business. 
Approved Terms of Appointment means the terms of appointment for the Approved 
Divestiture Trustee, Approved Independent Auditor and Approved Monitoring Trustee as 
approved by the ACCC in accordance with the terms of this Undertaking. 


32 
 
Approved Transitional Supply Agreement means any agreement, for the supply of 
goods or services (other than Technical Assistance) by Sika to the Approved Purchaser, 
approved by the ACCC in accordance with the terms of this Undertaking. 
Approved Transitional Technical Assistance Agreement means any agreement, for 
the supply of Technical Assistance by Sika to the Approved Purchaser, approved by the 
ACCC in accordance with the terms of this Undertaking.  
Associated Entity has the meaning given by section 50AAA of the Corporations Act. 
Audit Report has the meaning given to it in clause 9.12 of this Undertaking. 
Australian Divestiture Business means the business undertaken by MB Solutions 
Australia Pty Ltd and Bluey Technologies Pty Ltd and includes all assets and liabilities of 
those entities, including the assets out in Schedule 4. 
Business Day means a day other than a Saturday or Sunday on which banks are open 
for business generally in the Australian Capital Territory.  
Change of Control means: 
• 
the assignment or other transfer of the legal or beneficial ownership of some or 
all of the share capital of Sika to any other person or entity that may impact 
compliance with this Undertaking in its entirety; or 
• 
the sale or transfer of any assets necessary, or which may be necessary, to 
enable Sika to continue to comply with this Undertaking in its entirety. 
Commencement Date means the date described in clause 3.1 of this Undertaking. 
Confidential Information means any business secrets, know-how, commercial 
information, or any other information of a proprietary nature that is not in the public 
domain. 
Consents means any Government Consents or Third Party Consents. 
Control Date means the date on which the Proposed Acquisition is completed. 
Corporations Act means the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth). 
Divestiture Business means the business as defined in Section B and in Schedule A of 
the EC Commitments and includes with respect to Australia the items described in 
Schedule 4 to this Undertaking. 
Divestiture Trustee has the same meaning as in the EC Commitments. 
EC Commitments means the commitments made by Sika, and formally accepted by the 
European Commission, in relation to the divestiture of the Divestiture Business on terms 
substantially in the form of those submitted to the European Commission by Sika on 18 
January 2023 and enclosed at Confidential Schedule 7 to this Undertaking.   
EC Decision means the European Commission's decision pursuant to Article 6(1)(b) of 
the Council Regulation (EC) No 139/2004 to declare Sika's acquisition of the MBCC 
Group compatible with the internal market and the functioning of the EEA Agreement.  
EEA means the Member States of the European Union and Norway, Iceland and 
Liechtenstein. 
Entities Connected has the meaning given by section 64B of the Corporations Act. 


33 
 
Establishment Audit has the meaning given to it in clause 9.13(a) of this Undertaking.  
Government Consents means any consents from any government agency required for 
the assignment, novation, sale, sub-licensing or transfer of any assets, licences, permits, 
approval or contracts required for the operation of the Divestiture Business. 
Hold Separate Manager has the same meaning as in the EC Commitments.  
Holding Company has the meaning given by section 9 of the Corporations Act.  
Initial Divestiture Period is defined in clause 1 of Confidential Schedule 6 to this 
Undertaking. 
Material Change means any change to the structure, attributes, extent or operations of 
the Divestiture Business or product or service sold by a Divestiture Business that may 
affect, or impact on, the competitiveness of the Divestiture Business. 
Material Contract means any Agreement that is necessary for the operation of the 
Divestiture Business.  
Monitoring Trustee has the same meaning as in the EC Commitments. 
Parties means the parties to the Proposed Acquisition as defined in clause 2 of this 
Undertaking.  
Proposed Acquisition is defined in clause 2.3 of this Undertaking. 
Proposed Divestiture Trustee means a person named in a Proposed Divestiture 
Trustee Notice. 
Proposed Divestiture Trustee Notice has the meaning given to it in clause 10.3 of this 
Undertaking. 
Proposed Independent Auditor means a person named in a Proposed Independent 
Auditor Notice. 
Proposed Independent Auditor Notice has the meaning given to it in clause 9.2 of this 
Undertaking. 
Proposed Monitoring Trustee means a person named in Proposed Monitoring Trustee 
Notice. 
Proposed Monitoring Trustee Notice has the meaning given to it in clause 8.3 of this 
Undertaking. 
Proposed Purchaser means a person named in a Proposed Purchaser Notice. 
Proposed Purchaser Notice has the meaning given to it in clause 6.2 of this 
Undertaking.  
Public Mergers Register means the ACCC’s public register of merger clearances, 
available at www.accc.gov.au.   
Public Section 87B Undertakings Register means the ACCC’s public register of 
section 87B undertakings, available at www.accc.gov.au.  
Purchaser has the same meaning as in the EC Commitments. 


34 
 
Related Bodies Corporate has the meaning given to it by section 50 of the Corporations 
Act. 
Related Entities has the meaning given to it by section 9 of the Corporations Act. 
Related Parties has the meaning given to it by section 228 of the Corporations Act. 
Sika has the meaning given to it in clause 1.1 of this Undertaking. 
Subsidiary has the meaning given by section 9 of the Corporations Act. 
Technical Assistance includes advising on technical knowledge documentation, 
supporting the Approved Purchaser on acquiring specific assets necessary for the 
ongoing conduct of the Divestiture Business, providing staff with suitable experience and 
skills to assist and/or advice on technical issues, assisting in training for the Approved 
Purchaser’s staff, and providing guidance on regulatory and legal aspects relating to the 
transfer of or application for licences.  
Third Party Consents means any Consent from any entity that is not a government 
agency required for the assignment, novation, sale, sub-licensing or transfer of any 
assets, licences, permits, approval or contracts required for the operation of the 
Australian Divestiture Business. 
Transferred Personnel has the meaning given to it in clause 5.8 of this Undertaking. 
Trustee Divestiture Period is defined in part 2 of Confidential Schedule 6 to this 
Undertaking. 
Undertaking is a reference to all provisions of this document, including its schedules and 
as varied from time to time under section 87B of the Act. 
Undertaking Appointment means the Approved Independent Manager, the Approved 
Independent Auditor or the Approved Divestiture Agent, as applicable. 
Undertaking Signatories has the meaning given to it in clause 1.1 of this Undertaking. 
Unsold Business has the meaning given to it in clause 10.1 of this Undertaking. 
 
2. 
Interpretation 
2.1 
In the interpretation of this Undertaking, the following provisions apply unless the 
context otherwise requires: 
(a) a reference to this Undertaking includes all of the provisions of this document 
including its schedules; 
(b) headings are inserted for convenience only and do not affect the 
interpretation of this Undertaking;  
(c) if the day on which any act, matter or thing is to be done under this 
Undertaking is not a Business Day, the act, matter or thing must be done on 
the next Business Day;  
(d) a reference in this Undertaking to any law, legislation or legislative provision 
includes any statutory modification, amendment or re-enactment, and any 
subordinate legislation or regulations issued under that legislation or 
legislative provision;  


35 
 
(e) a reference in this Undertaking to any company includes its Related Bodies 
Corporate; 
(f) a reference in this Undertaking to any agreement or document is to that 
agreement or document as amended, novated, supplemented or replaced; 
(g) a reference to a clause, part, schedule or attachment is a reference to a 
clause, part, schedule or attachment of or to this Undertaking; 
(h) an expression importing a natural person includes any company, trust, 
partnership, joint venture, association, body corporate or governmental 
agency; 
(i) where a word or phrase is given a defined meaning, another part of speech 
or other grammatical form in respect of that word or phrase has a 
corresponding meaning; 
(j) a word which denotes the singular also denotes the plural, a word which 
denotes the plural also denotes the singular, and a reference to any gender 
also denotes the other genders; 
(k) a reference to the words 'such as', 'including', 'particularly' and similar 
expressions is to be construed without limitation; 
(l) a construction that would promote the purpose - or object - underlying the 
Undertaking (whether expressly stated or not) will be preferred to a 
construction that would not promote that purpose or object; 
(m) material not forming part of this Undertaking may be considered to: 
(i) confirm the meaning of a clause is the ordinary meaning conveyed by 
the text of the clause, taking into account its context in the Undertaking 
and the competition concerns intended to be addressed by the 
Undertaking and the clause in question; or 
(ii) determine the meaning of the clause when the ordinary meaning 
conveyed by the text of the clause, taking into account its context in the 
Undertaking and the purpose or object underlying the Undertaking, leads 
to a result that does not promote the purpose or object underlying the 
Undertaking; 
(n) in determining whether consideration should be given to any material in 
accordance with paragraph (m), or in considering any weight to be given to 
any such material, regard must be had, in addition to any other relevant 
matters, to the: 
(i) effect that reliance on the ordinary meaning conveyed by the text of the 
clause would, have (taking into account its context in the Undertaking 
and whether that meaning promotes the purpose or object of the 
Undertaking); and 
(ii) need to ensure that the result of the Undertaking is to completely 
address any ACCC competition concerns; 
(o) the ACCC may authorise the ACCC Mergers Review Committee, a member 
of the ACCC or a member of the ACCC staff, to exercise a decision making 
function under this Undertaking on its behalf and that authorisation may be 
subject to any conditions which the ACCC may impose; 


36 
 
(p) in performing its obligations under this Undertaking, Sika will do everything 
reasonably within its power to ensure that its performance of those 
obligations is done in a manner which is consistent with promoting the 
purpose and object of this Undertaking; 
(q) a reference to: 
(i) a thing (including, but not limited to, a chose in action or other right) 
includes a part of that thing; 
(ii) a party includes its successors and permitted assigns; and 
(iii) a monetary amount is in Australian dollars. 
  


37 
 
Schedule 2 – Proposed Purchaser Notice Form 
 
This form sets out the information required by the ACCC in relation to a Proposed 
Purchaser. 
 
Please note in relation to information given pursuant to this form, giving false or 
misleading information is a serious offence.   
1. 
Method of Delivery to the ACCC 
The completed form with requested documents attached may be provided to the ACCC 
using the following method: 
Email  
Subject line:  
Proposed Purchaser Notice – [insert name of undertaking]  
Address: 
mergers@accc.gov.au  
Attention: 
Executive General Manager – Merger, Exemptions & Digital Division  
 
With an email copy sent to: 
Address:  
mergersru@accc.gov.au 
Attention:  
Director, Remedies Unit - Policy, Coordination & Remedies Branch, 
Merger, Exemptions & Digital Division  
2. 
Information Required 
The ACCC requires the following information in order to assess a Proposed Purchaser. 
2.1 
Proposed Purchaser details: 
(a) Name of the Proposed Purchaser; 
(b) Address; 
(c) 
Contact name; 
(d) Telephone number; and 
(e) Other contact details. 
2.2 
A submission containing the following information: 
(a) a description of the business carried on by the Proposed Purchaser 
including the locations in which the Proposed Purchaser carries on its 
business; 
(b) details of the Proposed Purchaser’s experience in the relevant market(s); 
(c) 
the names of the owner(s) and the director(s) of the Proposed Purchaser;  
(d) details of any of the following types of relationships between Sika and the 
Proposed Purchaser or confirmation that no such relationship exists whether 
within Australia or outside of Australia: 


38 
 
(i) 
Sika and the Proposed Purchaser are Associated Entities;  
(ii) 
Sika is an Entity Connected with the Proposed Purchaser; 
(iii) 
the Proposed Purchaser is an Entity Connected with Sika; 
(iv) 
Sika and the Proposed Purchaser are Related Entities; 
(v) 
Sika and the Proposed Purchaser are Related Parties; 
(vi) 
any Related Party, Related Entity or Entity Connected with Sika is a 
Related Party, Related Entity or Entity Connected with the Proposed 
Purchaser; 
(vii) 
Sika and the Proposed Purchaser have a contractual relationship or 
had one within the past three years, other than those attached to this 
form; 
(viii) the Proposed Purchaser is a supplier of Sika or has been in the past 
three years; 
(ix) 
Sika is a supplier of the Proposed Purchaser or has been in the past 
three years; and 
(x) 
any other relationship between Sika and the Proposed Purchaser 
that allows one to affect the business decisions of the other; 
(e) a section addressing the following factors, including any information adverse 
to the Proposed Purchaser, in the power, possession or control of Sika: 
(i) 
whether the draft sale and purchase agreement is consistent with 
this Undertaking;  
(i) 
whether the Proposed Purchaser will complete the transaction as 
contemplated by the draft sale and purchase agreement;  
(ii) 
whether the Proposed Purchaser is of good financial standing;  
(iii) 
whether the Proposed Purchaser has an intention to maintain and 
operate the Divestiture Business as a going concern; 
(iv) 
whether the Proposed Purchaser is able to conduct the Divestiture 
Business effectively;  
(v) 
whether the divestiture of the Divestiture Business to the Proposed 
Purchaser will address any competition concerns of the ACCC, 
including any relationships (including but not limited to shareholding 
interests, other proprietary interests, contracts, arrangements or 
understandings) between the Proposed Purchaser and other entities 
in a relevant market, and the likely long-term viability and 
competitiveness of the Divestiture Business under the ownership of 
the Proposed Purchaser; and 
(vi) 
any other matters that may affect the Proposed Purchaser’s capacity 
or ability to acquire or operate the Divestiture Business, such as 
outstanding legal action or disputes. 


39 
 
2.3 
Please also attach to this form: 
(a) the finalised draft of the sale and purchase agreement for approval by the 
ACCC in accordance with this Undertaking;  
(b) the finalised draft of any transitional technical assistance agreement for 
approval by the ACCC in accordance with this Undertaking; 
(c) 
the finalised draft of any transitional supply agreement for approval by the 
ACCC in accordance with this Undertaking; and 
(d) any documents required to support the information provided by Sika 
pursuant to this form. 


40 
 
Schedule 3 – Undertaking Appointment Form 
 
This form sets out the information required by the ACCC in relation to proposed 
appointment of the following positions under the Undertaking: 
• 
Approved Monitoring Trustee;  
• 
Approved Independent Auditor; or 
• 
Approved Divestiture Trustee 
(the Undertaking Appointment). 
This form is to be used for each of the above appointments. 
 
Please note in relation to information given pursuant to this form, giving false or 
misleading information is a serious offence.   
1. 
Method of Delivery to the ACCC 
The completed form with requested documents attached may be provided to the ACCC 
using the following method: 
Email  
Subject line:  
Proposed [only include relevant Undertaking Appointment i.e. Monitoring 
Trustee/Independent Auditor/Divestiture Trustee] Notice – [insert name 
of undertaking] 
Address: 
mergers@accc.gov.au 
Attention: 
Executive General Manager – Mergers, Exemptions & Digital Division 
 
With an email copy sent to: 
Address:  
mergersru@accc.gov.au 
Attention:  
Director, Remedies Unit - Policy, Coordination & Remedies Branch, 
Mergers, Exemptions & Digital Division 
2. 
Information Required 
The ACCC requires the following information in order to assess a Proposed Monitoring 
Trustee, Proposed Independent Auditor or Proposed Divestiture Trustee (i.e. the relevant 
Undertaking Appointment). 
2.1 
Proposed Undertaking Appointment details: 
(a) the name of the proposed Undertaking Appointment; and 
(b) the name of the proposed Undertaking Appointment’s employer and contact 
details including: 
(i) 
Address; 
(ii) 
Contact name; 
(iii) 
Telephone number; and 


41 
 
(iv) 
Other contact details. 
2.2 
A submission containing the following information: 
(a) details of the Undertaking Appointment’s qualifications and experience 
relevant to his or her proposed role pursuant to the Undertaking; 
(b) the names of the owner(s) and the director(s) of the Undertaking 
Appointment’s employer; 
(c) 
details of any of the following types of relationships between Sika and the 
Undertaking Appointment or the Undertaking Appointment’s employer or 
confirmation that no such relationship exists whether within Australia or 
outside of Australia: 
(i) 
Sika and the Undertaking Appointment’s employer are Associated 
Entities; 
(ii) 
Sika is an Entity Connected with the Undertaking Appointment’s 
employer; 
(iii) 
The Undertaking Appointment’s employer is an Entity Connected 
with Sika; 
(iv) 
Sika and the Undertaking Appointment’s employer are Related 
Entities; 
(v) 
Sika and the Undertaking Appointment’s employer are Related 
Parties; 
(vi) 
any Related Party, Related Entity or Entity Connected with Sika is a 
Related Party, Related Entity or Entity Connected with the 
Undertaking Appointment; 
(vii) 
Sika and the Undertaking Appointment or the Undertaking 
Appointment’s employer have a contractual relationship or had one 
within the past three years, other than those attached to this form; 
(viii) the Undertaking Appointment’s employer is a supplier of Sika or has 
been in the past three years; 
(ix) 
Sika is a supplier of the Undertaking Appointment’s employer or has 
been in the past three years; and 
(x) 
any other relationship between Sika and the Undertaking 
Appointment or the Undertaking Appointment’s employer that allows 
one to affect the business decisions of the other;  
(d) details of any existing or past contractual relationships between the 
Undertaking Appointment or the Undertaking Appointment's employer and 
the ACCC within the past three years. 
2.3 
A document outlining the terms of appointment for the proposed Undertaking 
Appointment. This should identify the basis on which fees will be paid, including 
disclosure of any proposed performance-based fees.   


42 
 
3. 
Specific Information required for Undertaking Appointments 
The ACCC requires the below information in relation to the relevant Undertaking 
Appointment.  
Proposed Independent Auditor 
3.1 
A finalised draft audit plan for the Divestiture Business, drafted by the Proposed 
Independent Auditor and outlining (to the extent possible) the Proposed 
Independent Auditor’s plans regard to the Establishment Audit and the Audit 
Report. 
Proposed Divestiture Trustee 
3.2 
The finalised draft business sale agreement drafted by the Proposed Divestiture 
Trustee in consultation with Sika. The draft business sale agreement is to provide 
for the divestiture of the Unsold Business. 
3.3 
The Proposed Divestiture Trustee’s draft marketing and sale plan for the Unsold 
Business. 
Proposed Monitoring Trustee  
3.4 
The finalised draft separation and management plan for the Divestiture Business, 
detailing the measures and timing to be implemented by Sika and the Approved 
Monitoring Trustee in order to fulfil Sika’s and the Approved Monitoring Trustee’s 
obligations pursuant to this Undertaking. This plan is to be drafted by the Proposed 
Monitoring Trustee in consultation with Sika to achieve the objectives of the 
Undertaking including: 
(a) the intended mode of operation of the Divestiture Business until completion 
of its divestiture; 
 
(b) separation measures to ensure the Divestiture Business is operated in a 
manner which is financially and operationally separate from Sika, including 
the;  
(i) 
separation of the books and records of the Divestiture Business from 
those of Sika;  
(ii) 
severance of the Divestiture Business’s participation in any private 
shared information technology networks, to the extent possible 
without compromising the viability of the Divestiture Business; 
(iii) 
implementation of specific electronic, information and physical 
security measures to maintain the confidentiality of any competitively 
sensitive information of the Divestiture Business; and 
(iv) 
severance of arrangements to share personnel and plant between 
the Divestiture Business and any businesses to be retained by Sika, 
to the extent possible without compromising the viability of the 
Divestiture Business; 
(c) 
details of contracts for the provision of goods or services to the Divestiture 
Business which will expire after the completion of the divestiture of the 
Divestiture Business to the Approved Purchaser and the actions which will 
be taken to ensure they are replaced, renewed and/or renegotiated on 
commercial terms favourable to the Divestiture Business;  


43 
 
(d) personnel planning to maintain appropriate personnel levels and ensure that 
the Divestiture Business has access to all personnel necessary to operate 
the Divestiture Business;  
(e) any Material Changes to the Divestiture Business required in order to fulfil 
Sika’s and the Approved Monitoring Trustee’s obligations pursuant to the 
Undertaking; and 
(f) 
the cooperation required from the Approved Monitoring Trustee with Sika in 
relation to the divestiture of the Divestiture Business, including: 
(i) 
the activities to be conducted by the Approved Monitoring Trustee 
that are necessary for the effective operation of the Divestiture 
Business, having regard to the nature of the Divestiture Business 
(including the extent to which the Divestiture Business already has a 
management structure in place prior to the Proposed Acquisition that 
will be retained during the hold separate period);  
(ii) 
the method by which due diligence information, site visits and 
personnel interviews by and to prospective purchasers of the 
Divestiture Business will be managed;  
(iii) 
the method by which the Approved Monitoring Trustee and Sika will 
preserve the confidentiality of the Divestiture Business’s 
competitively sensitive information from Sika and its advisers 
throughout this process; and 
(iv) 
a protocol whereby the Approved Monitoring Trustee can provide 
any information requested by Sika without disclosing the details of 
the Divestiture Business’s competitively sensitive information to 
Sika. 
 
 


56 
 
For the avoidance of doubt, all assets used by the Australian Divestiture 
Business to supply any aftersales services and technical support will also be 
transferred to the Approved Purchaser. 
6. 
Employees 
Employees employed by MBCC Australia including all production staff, sales staff 
and senior management.   
7. 
Customer contracts 
All existing customer contracts, sales orders, purchase orders associated with 
the Divestiture Business and entered into by MB Solutions Australia Pty Ltd 
and/or Bluey Technologies Pty Ltd.  For the avoidance of doubt, this includes the 
Material Contracts listed in part 1 of Confidential Schedule 5. 
8. 
Third party supply and distribution contracts 
All Material Contracts with third parties for the acquisition of goods or services 
associated with the Divestiture Business and entered into by MB Solutions 
Australia Pty Ltd and/or Bluey Technologies Pty Ltd.  For the avoidance of doubt, 
this includes the Material Contracts listed in part 2 of Confidential Schedule 5.   
9. 
Business records 
All business records including all customer and vendor records (current and 
historical), price lists, advertising or marketing materials, financial and legal 
records, catalogues and mailing lists which are used by the Divestiture Business.  
10. 
Permits and licences 
All permits, licences, consents, planning permissions, product registrations, 
certifications or authorisations issued by a government agency and related 
documentation and used primarily in relation to, or required for the ownership 
and operation of, or required to facilitate the operation of, the Divestiture 
Business.  
  
 


57 
 
Confidential Schedule 4A - 


58 
 
Confidential Schedule 5 - 


61 
 
Confidential Schedule 6 - 


62 
 
Confidential Schedule 7 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


63 
 
Confidential Schedule 8 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


64 
 
Confidential Schedule 9 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


65 
 
Confidential Schedule 10 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


66 
 
 
Schedule 11 - Approved Purchaser  
 
The Approved Purchaser of the Divestiture Business at the date of this Undertaking is 
The Seventh Cinven Fund, which is managed by Cinven Capital Management (VII) 
General Partner Limited, Level 4, Mill Court, La Charroterie, St Peter Port, Guernsey, 
GY1 1EJ (either directly or through its subsidiaries).  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
