Page 1 of 11 
 
Public Competition Assessment 
3 May 2023 
Sika AG - proposed acquisition of MBCC Group  
 
The ACCC’s decision 
1. 
On 20 April 2023, the ACCC announced its decision not to oppose the proposed 
acquisition by Sika AG (Sika) of LSF11 Skyscraper HoldCo S.à.r.l. (MBCC 
Group) (the proposed acquisition) after accepting a section 87B undertaking 
from Sika (the Undertaking).  
2. 
The ACCC considers that the Undertaking sufficiently addresses its competition 
concerns such that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to contravene section 50 
of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the Act). Section 50 prohibits 
acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of 
substantially lessening competition in any market. 
3. 
The ACCC assessed the competitive effects of the proposed acquisition in the 
market for the supply of chemical admixtures. Chemical admixtures are a key 
ingredient in the production of concrete, used to chemically modify its properties 
to improve the quality and workability of concrete.  
4. 
Sika and MBCC are the two largest suppliers of chemical admixtures in 
Australia. Market feedback indicated that they are each other’s closest 
competitor and that other suppliers would not represent a sufficient level of 
competitive constraint on the merged entity to prevent it from profitably 
increasing prices or decreasing service quality. With less competition in Australia 
(and globally) post-acquisition, incentives to innovate and, for example, bring 
new product developments to Australia, would also be decreased.   
5. 
Further, the ACCC considers that the threat of new entry or expansion would be 
unlikely to provide an effective constraint on the merged entity. The affected 
market has high barriers to entry and expansion including difficulties accessing 
raw materials, incumbency advantages for existing suppliers, and significant 
economies of scale and scope. The ACCC considers customers would be 
unlikely to effectively bypass the merged entity. 
6. 
The ACCC has concerns that other suppliers would not have access to research 
and development on a sufficient scale to compete effectively with the merged 


 
Page 2 of 11 
entity. The ACCC is particularly concerned that this would decrease incentives to 
innovate and, for example, bring new product developments to Australia. 
7. 
However, the ACCC considers that a divestiture as contemplated by the 
Undertaking will address its competition concerns with the proposed acquisition. 
It will ensure there will be two key competitors for the supply of chemical 
admixtures in Australia.  
8. 
In response to Sika proposing Cinven as the up-front purchaser of the MBCC 
Group businesses, the ACCC has approved Cinven as the purchaser at the 
same time as accepting the Undertaking. 
9. 
This Public Competition Assessment outlines reasons for the decision by the 
ACCC not to oppose the proposed acquisition, taking into account the 
Undertaking. Please note that this and other public competition assessments are 
subject to the following qualifications: 
▪ 
The ACCC considers each transaction on a case-by-case basis and so the 
analysis and decision outlined in one assessment will not necessarily 
reflect the ACCC’s view of another transaction. 
▪ 
As assessments are relatively brief and do not refer to confidential 
information, assessments do not necessarily set out all of the issues and 
information considered by the ACCC.  
The parties  
The acquirer: Sika AG 
10. 
Sika is a Switzerland-based, global manufacturer and supplier of construction 
chemicals including chemical admixtures, systems and products for bonding, 
sealing, damping, reinforcing and protecting in the building sector and motor 
vehicle industry. Sika has subsidiaries in 101 countries around the world and 
manufactures in over 300 factories. Sika AG is the parent company of Sika 
Australia Pty Ltd, which owns Construction Technology Australia Pty Ltd. 
11. 
Sika in Switzerland leads long-term research programmes for the whole of Sika 
globally.1 Sika’s research and development of new products (including chemical 
admixtures),2 systems, technologies, applications, and production processes are 
carried out by 1,300 employees across 21 global Technology Centres.3 These 
facilities are located across 10 countries (including for example Switzerland, 
Germany, UK, USA and China); however, none are in Australia.  
The target: MBCC Group 
12. 
MBCC Group, formerly BASF Construction Chemicals, is a global manufacturer 
and supplier of construction chemicals including chemical admixtures, tile 
adhesives, flooring systems, waterproofing systems, and PU sealants. MBCC is 
headquartered in Germany and has operations in over 60 countries. In Australia, 
 
1Sika Group, We are Sika [information brochure], accessed 4 April 2023.   
2 For example, Sika developed “Sika ViscoFlow”, a workability enhancing admixture, based on a new in-house-
developed polymer which prolongs the workability time of the fresh concrete and still ensures equally fast strength 
development. 
3 Sika Group, Organization [website], accessed 5 April 2023.  


 
Page 3 of 11 
MBCC Group owns MB Solutions Australia Pty Ltd and Bluey Technologies and 
operates under the Master Builder Solutions brand. 
13. 
MBCC has a comprehensive global research and development network with 
more than 200 experts focusing on construction chemicals, which includes 
chemical admixtures.4 MBCC has 8 development centres worldwide (located 
across Europe, the US and China) with its global research and development 
centre located in Trostberg, Germany. At this facility, MBCC engages in research 
and development of new technologies as well as new products and processes 
for construction chemicals.5 None of MBCC’s development centres are in 
Australia. 
The transaction 
14. 
Sika is proposing to acquire, by way of share acquisition, MBCC globally. In 
Australia, MBCC Group manufactures and distributes products through its 
subsidiary MB Solutions Australia Pty Ltd (under the Master Builder Solutions 
brand) and Bluey Technologies. The proposed acquisition is subject to 
regulatory review in numerous overseas jurisdictions.  
Market inquiries 
15. 
The ACCC conducted market inquiries with a range of industry participants, 
including competitors, potential competitors, customers, input suppliers, industry 
bodies, other regulatory agencies and other interested parties.  
Industry background 
Chemical admixtures 
16. 
Chemical admixtures are used in the preparation of cement, concrete and other 
products. They usually represent a small proportion of the mix (e.g., roughly 
between 1% and 5% of a total batch of ready-mix concrete). 
17. 
Chemical admixtures chemically modify the properties of fresh and hardened 
concrete, cement or mortar and some examples include: 
• 
(super) plasticizers;  
• 
air entrainers;  
• 
water reducers;  
• 
retarders;  
• 
accelerators; and  
• 
specialty admixtures.  
 
4 For example, MBCC has developed an innovative chemical admixture product called MasterEase, a superplasticizer 
for low-viscosity concrete, improves the rheological properties of high-performance concrete, significantly 
facilitating its pumping, placing and finishing. See here. 
5 MBCC Group, Our R&D Centers [website], accessed 5 April 2023.  


 
Page 4 of 11 
18. 
The effects that these chemical admixtures can have include increased 
workability, acceleration, or retardation of the rate of hydration of cements and 
added resistance to freezing and thawing. It is common for a combination of 
chemical admixture solutions to be used in a batch of concrete or cement since 
the chemical admixture solutions serve different purposes. 
19. 
Chemical admixtures are manufactured in-house using raw materials (polymers) 
that are imported into Australia. These products are imported in powder form and 
distributed to manufacturing and warehousing sites Australia wide, where they 
are tweaked to local conditions and/or customer specifications. The polymers are 
then added to water, mixed and distributed to customers, who include ready-mix 
concrete suppliers, mining companies as well as packaged for retail sale. 
20. 
Chemical admixture customers often house dispensing equipment on their own 
premises, which is supplied by the chemical admixture supplier. The supplier 
warrants the use and performance of the equipment and the chemical 
admixtures. They also provide local service and support if there are any issues 
with the products or the equipment supplied. This is an important part of the 
contractual arrangement between the customer and the supplier.  
21. 
Admixtures are the most impactful product, other than cement, in terms of either 
enhancing or diminishing concrete performance. If there has been a failure with 
the dispensing equipment or chemical admixture product, the issue must be 
fixed within a matter of hours. If on-the-ground technical expertise is not 
available, the concrete will set and necessitate the disposal of the entire batch of 
concrete, which can have financial implications and cause reputational damage 
to customers. 
22. 
There is significant research and development in speciality chemical admixtures, 
including as a result of the current global focus on reducing the construction 
industry’s carbon footprint. Sika and MBCC have both focused their R&D 
activities into a number of global centres. The imported chemical admixtures are 
then ‘tweaked’ to local conditions or the needs of specific customers in Australia.   
Other industry participants 
23. 
A limited number of international construction chemicals companies are currently 
supplying chemical admixture products in Australia:  
• 
Saint-Gobain: Saint-Gobain is global French company servicing the 
construction and industrial markets. Over the past two years, 
Saint-Gobain has completed acquisitions of Chryso and GCP Applied 
Technologies (GCP).6 The ACCC understands that GCP is the third 
largest supplier of chemical admixtures in Australia and has three plants 
around the country, located in NSW, Queensland and Victoria. Chryso 
has not previously supplied chemical admixtures in Australia.  
• 
Mapei: Mapei Australia is 100% owned by Mapei S.p.A, with its head 
office in Italy, having been established in Australia for over 28 years. 
Mapei is a global producer of adhesives and chemical products for the 
building industry, including chemical admixtures. In Australia, Mapei has 
 
6 Chryso is a global company that designs, produces, markets and delivers chemical solutions for building materials 
including cement additives, concrete admixtures, decorative concrete solutions, screed solutions and construction 
systems.  


 
Page 5 of 11 
a production facility in Brisbane that produces a range of construction 
chemicals, including chemical admixtures.  
24. 
The ACCC did not identify any other significant market participants. Smaller 
providers of niche chemical admixture products active in Australia, include 
Parchem (under the Fosroc brand) and Building Chemical Supplies (BCS).7 The 
ACCC also identified Normet,8 a specialist supplier of construction chemicals, 
including chemical admixtures and other products, to the mining industry.  
25. 
The main purchasers of chemical admixtures in Australia are manufacturers and 
suppliers of various types of concrete, including ready-mix concrete suppliers, 
pre-mix concrete suppliers, manufactured concrete products, shotcrete, and 
similar products.  
Market definition 
26. 
The ACCC’s starting point for considering which markets will be affected by the 
proposed acquisition is to identify the areas of overlap between the products 
actually or potentially supplied by the merger parties. The ACCC then considers 
other actual or potential suppliers of those products, as well as what other 
products constitute sufficiently close substitutes to provide a significant source of 
constraint on the merged entity. 
27. 
The ACCC has considered the likely effects of the proposed acquisition in a 
separate market for chemical admixtures, rather than a market for a broader 
group of construction chemical products. This market does not include mineral 
admixtures.9  
28. 
The ACCC’s market inquiries suggested that it may be appropriate to further 
segment the market into a smaller geographic frame of reference because: 
• 
chemical admixtures do not typically travel far after they have been mixed 
due to transport costs and the need for local supply; and 
• 
local support and quick response times from chemical admixture suppliers 
are important. 
29. 
The ACCC considered the effects of the proposed merger on this market from a 
number of perspectives but considered that it was not necessary to precisely 
define the scope of this market. 
Competition analysis 
Substantial lessening of competition in the supply of chemical 
admixtures due to loss of a close competitor 
30. 
The proposed acquisition would result in the combination of the two largest 
suppliers of chemical admixtures in Australia.  
 
7 BCS distributes construction chemicals and specialist equipment in Australia, including concrete chemical admixtures 
developed and formulated by international company MC Bauchemie. MC Bauchemie currently has no presence in 
Australia. 
8 Nourmet, About Us [website], accessed 5 April 2023.  
9 Chemical and mineral admixtures have differing applications and are seen as complementary goods, rather than 
substitutes. Customers generally specifically require either chemical or mineral admixtures.  


 
Page 6 of 11 
31. 
Market feedback has been consistent that Sika and MBCC offer almost identical 
services and are each other’s main competitor. Both have established 
reputations in Australia, provide trusted service and support capabilities, and are 
considered reliable. These factors are all extremely important to customers.  
32. 
Sika and MBCC are often the only active participants in competitive tender 
processes for the supply of chemical admixtures. This is particularly the case for 
larger customers that operate nationally and require the supply of chemical 
admixtures to sites nationwide; and for their supplier to be of sufficient scale to 
be able to guarantee ongoing supply of significant volumes of chemical 
admixtures in a timely and efficient manner.  
33. 
The supply of chemical admixtures in Australia is concentrated: the ACCC 
understands that, post-acquisition, Sika would have a market share of 
approximately 80%.   
34. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition would remove from the 
market the most significant competitive constraint on Sika. The limited number 
and scale of existing competitors such as GCP or Mapei means that these 
competitors are unlikely, in the short to medium term, to provide an effective 
competitive constraint on the merged entity. There are significant barriers to 
entry and expansion (see discussion at paragraph 44 below) that limit the ability 
of other competitors to ‘ramp up’ to service large customers in the same way that 
Sika and MBCC could. 
35. 
The ACCC’s market inquiries indicated that Sika and MBCC are the only two 
suppliers that can service large customers. The ACCC considered whether 
larger customers would be likely to have countervailing buyer power. However, 
for this to be likely, large customers would require access to alternative “outside” 
options they could turn to in the event the merged entity offered terms and 
conditions unfavourable to them. As noted above, the ACCC is concerned that 
no other supplier of chemical admixtures presently offers the level of constraint 
on the merged entity that each applies to the other; and that there are material 
barriers to entry and/or expansion in the relevant market(s).  
36. 
Further, it is not apparent to the ACCC that larger customers could credibly 
threaten to self-supply or sponsor new entry due to the significant sunk costs 
necessary to establish relevant property, plants and equipment, as well as a lack 
of access to imports of raw materials and research and development expertise 
and facilities. 
37. 
The ACCC also understands that large or small customers are unable to bypass 
suppliers by importing raw materials because they would, in effect, need to take 
on the role of a chemical admixture supplier to self-supply. This would require 
significant investment in property, plants and equipment, as well as access to 
technical expertise and self-supplied local on-the-ground support.  
 
 
 
 


 
Page 7 of 11 
Switching 
38. 
The ACCC understands there is limited switching between chemical admixture 
suppliers. Our investigation has indicated that, to the extent switching does 
occur, it is mostly between Sika and MBCC themselves, particularly for larger 
customers.    
39. 
The ACCC’s investigation found that reputation, service and support capabilities 
and reliability are extremely important to customers, and they are unlikely to 
switch to a new supplier that may be untested or unknown.  
40. 
Market inquiries also indicated that it is expensive and time-consuming to switch 
suppliers because of: 
• 
significant testing requirements to replicate existing chemical admixture 
designs, including laboratory and on-site testing, which requires support 
and cooperation from customers, and 
• 
reputational, commercial and litigation risks in switching suppliers, because 
using new products increases the potential for errors in quality. 
41. 
In addition, the ACCC’s inquiries indicated that for large construction and 
infrastructure projects, for example those undertaken by state road and transport 
authorities, the tender documents will often specify which chemical admixtures 
are to be used. The parties’ chemical admixtures are recognised 
brands/products in Australia and are commonly included in these specifications.  
42. 
Once a project has commenced, the same chemical admixture products must be 
used. This effectively locks the use of those chemical admixtures in for the life of 
the project and is a disincentive to switching to a different supplier for other 
projects because to do so would involve multi-homing.  
43. 
As a result, relationships between chemical admixture suppliers and customers 
are typically entrenched and long-term. There is, for example, a degree of 
integration from having dispensing equipment on site which contributes to 
customer stickiness.   
Barriers to entry and expansion 
44. 
The ACCC’s investigation identified material barriers to new entry and expansion 
by existing competitors for the supply of chemical admixtures.  
45. 
Market feedback suggests that there are economies of scale and scope in the 
production and distribution of chemical admixtures, as well as the provision of 
support services. 
Access to raw materials and other resources 
46. 
Access to raw materials (polymers) can be difficult due to the small number of 
quality suppliers. The ACCC’s enquiries indicated that smaller chemical 
admixture suppliers (with their smaller volume requirements) may have greater 
difficulty importing polymers into Australia as some of the major chemical 
admixture companies may be prioritised when the supply of polymers is 
insufficient to meet demand. Market participants also raised concerns that, post-
acquisition, Sika would have the ability to enter into exclusivity arrangements 


 
Page 8 of 11 
with polymer suppliers, further reducing the ability of competitors to access raw 
materials.  
47. 
The ACCC’s enquiries indicated that there were limited opportunities for 
companies seeking to enter or expand into the supply of chemical admixtures to 
purchase existing plant, equipment, and facilities. Further, setting up new plants 
is likely to require incurring substantial sunk costs which can act as a significant 
barrier to entry/expansion.  
48. 
As discussed in paragraph 41 above, project specifications limit the ability of 
concrete suppliers to choose or switch to an alternate chemical admixture 
supplier (especially one that is not an established brand). This creates another 
barrier to entry or expansion as new entrants or smaller players are often not 
specified on projects, hindering their ability to compete for non-project demand, 
given the lack of multi-homing. 
On-the-ground technical support and services 
49. 
Ongoing localised technical support and problem-solving expertise is crucial to 
customers, and they place a higher value on reliability and service and support 
capabilities than on price. Concrete suppliers heavily rely on chemical admixture 
suppliers to be able to supply their customers with concrete. It may take 
significant time for any new suppliers of chemical admixtures to build the 
experience and brand awareness to be considered a trustworthy supplier. 
50. 
Customers require local support from their chemical admixture supplier in all 
their plant locations. As a result, large nation-wide customers require a chemical 
admixture supplier to have a similar geographic presence to them. The ACCC 
understands that Sika and MBCC are presently the only chemical admixture 
suppliers able to meet the supply, delivery and support requirements of these 
large customers. This presents an additional barrier to entry or expansion, as a 
player would need to have a presence in a number of locations across Australia 
in order to service larger customers. 
51. 
Market participants highlighted the significant time – between 1 and 5 years – 
and sunk cost investment required for existing chemical admixture suppliers to 
scale up to the necessary capabilities to supply nationwide contracts and provide 
ongoing local support. If a new entrant were to compete for a major contract, 
they would be competing against incumbents that had already incurred those 
large sunk costs of entry and would have much lower additional costs to cover 
than the new entrant.  
Multi-homing 
52. 
There is limited appetite from customers to use more than one supplier at a site 
(“multi-home”). While some market participants use (or are considering using) 
more than one chemical admixture supplier, they do not use them at the same 
location or plant.  
53. 
ACCC enquiries indicated that it is not practical or possible for customers to 
house multiple sets of equipment to accommodate different suppliers’ products. 
This is due to chemical admixture suppliers warranting the performance of their 
own dispensing equipment, and any cross over could void that warranty.  


 
Page 9 of 11 
54. 
In addition, having a single supplier means there is less complexity when 
preparing concrete mix designs. Customers also highlighted that their other 
concrete plants often act as back up in the same region, which would not be 
possible if different plants used different suppliers. 
Imports 
55. 
Customers do not consider they can bypass existing suppliers by importing their 
own raw materials or chemical admixture products. Market feedback indicates 
that importation and mixing chemical admixtures requires a high capital 
investment and customers lack the resources to manage the risks associated 
with regulatory requirements and quality assurance for these products.  
56. 
Customers have limited storage capacity to house large volumes of chemical 
admixtures, instead valuing ‘just-in-time’ supply of products. The high value 
placed on local support would also be lost or require significant investment to 
employ and train staff to provide that support. Customers would not have the 
necessary scale to be able to engage in research and development and 
consequently suffer a competitive disadvantage.  
Research and development 
57. 
The importance of research and development to customers is another barrier to 
entry and expansion for smaller competitors. Sika and MBCC in Australia benefit 
from large-scale investment in global research and development facilities. MBCC 
has 8 global research and development facilities10 and Sika has 21 global 
technology centres as well as over 80 regional research and development 
facilities.11  
58. 
The ACCC’s enquiries also indicate that large chemical admixture suppliers hold 
a number of patents for polymers, which are important components of chemical 
admixture products. The global development and innovation of products, 
particularly in the reduction of CO2 emissions,12 is essential for smaller suppliers 
to be able to compete effectively and provide customers with new and innovative 
products. 
59. 
The ACCC understands that customers value being able to co-develop products 
with their chemical admixture supplier, sometimes using exclusivity to give them 
a competitive advantage. Smaller chemical admixture competitors often do not 
have the requisite scale to dedicate the time and investment to co-develop 
products with large customers. 
60. 
These barriers to entry and expansion mean that timely entry/expansion on a 
scale sufficient to constrain a merged Sika/MBCC is unlikely. The ACCC 
considers that the concerns raised in relation to chemical admixtures will be 
remedied by the divestiture package after Sika gave the Undertaking pursuant to 
section 87B of the Act to divest the entire MBCC group of entities in Australia. 
 
10 MBCC Group, Our R&D Centers [website], accessed 5 April 2023. 
11 Sika Group, Research Strategy [website], accessed 5 April 2023.  
12 Ibid.  


 
Page 10 of 11 
Overlaps in the supply of other construction products 
61. 
Sika and MBCC both supply a range of other construction products. Table 1 
contains a summary of these products.  
Table 1: Overview of other construction products Sika and MBCC both supply  
Product area 
Description 
Ancillaries 
Products that enhance appearance and production process of 
concrete, e.g., curing compounds and colours. 
Bonding agents 
Chemicals used to repair concrete or attach materials to the 
substrate. 
Corrosion protection / 
control products 
Protective layer that delays corrosion. 
Fibres (concrete 
admixtures) 
Materials added to concrete to increase durability and 
toughness. Can be made from various materials, including steel 
or synthetics (e.g., plastic). Market feedback indicated that Sika 
and MBCC will try to bundle admixtures with fibres. 
Impregnations 
Systems and coatings that seal concrete walls against water 
and protect against mould. 
Industrial flooring 
Flooring able to withstand high temperatures and impacts, etc. 
that occur in industrial applications. 
Injection resins 
Material injected into damaged or cracked structures to seal 
leaks, repair structures and make them watertight. 
Mineral admixtures 
(silica fume) 
Added to concrete to reduce permeability, increase strength and 
influence other properties. 
Mortars for concrete 
repairs 
Mortars for concrete repairs. 
Premix mortars 
Premixed mortars that bind construction materials together or fill 
gaps between them. 
Primers  
Products used to improve surface adhesion for additional 
layers/coatings. 
Resin-based grouts 
Materials used to repair cracks, fix tiles, and anchor rods, bolts 
or bars. Uses resins instead of cement. 
Structural 
strengthening / 
reinforcing products 
Materials applied externally to increase strength and capacity of 
a concrete structure. Can be made from various materials, 
including steel or synthetics (e.g., carbon fibre). 
Sealants 
Substances used to block fluids through joints or openings. 
Used to insulate, fill gaps, cover holes and cracks, and to 
ensure waterproofness. 
Waterproofing 
Products used to protect concrete against water. Includes, e.g., 
liquid and non-liquid membranes and liquid bitumen. 
62. 
The ACCC considered the overlaps in these potential markets but did not need 
to reach a concluded view because the divestment proposal removed the 
relevant overlaps in Australia.  
Undertaking 
63. 
In order to address the ACCC’s competition concerns in relation to chemical 
admixtures, Sika offered the Undertaking pursuant to section 87B of the Act. The 


 
Page 11 of 11 
Undertaking is part of a global divestiture package. According to the 
Undertaking, Sika will divest:  
• 
MBCC’s Admixtures Systems business in Europe (including Switzerland), 
the UK, Canada, and the US, and 
• 
MBCC’s EBA and Construction Systems business of MBCC Group in 
Australia and New Zealand (the ANZ Divestiture Business). This comprises 
all of MBCC Group’s business in Australia and New Zealand, including 
Bluey Technologies.13 
64. 
The Undertaking also sets out that Sika will comply with its commitments to the 
European Commission.14 
65. 
The ACCC engaged with a range of market participants for feedback on the 
Undertaking. 
66. 
The ACCC considers that a divestiture as contemplated by the Undertaking will 
address its competition concerns with the proposed acquisition. It will ensure that 
there remain two key competitors in the supply of chemical admixtures in 
Australia and those competitors have access to global research and 
development networks. A copy of the Undertaking is available on the ACCC 
mergers register and undertakings register. 
67. 
Sika proposed Cinven as the up-front purchaser of the MBCC Group 
businesses. The ACCC has approved Cinven as the purchaser after giving 
consideration to a number of factors, including Cinven’s previous experience in 
the industry and plans to continue the business in Australia as a going concern. 
Conclusion 
68. 
Based on the above analysis, the ACCC considers that the proposed acquisition 
of MBCC by Sika, taking into account the Undertaking, would not be likely to 
have the effect of substantially lessening competition in the market for the supply 
of chemical admixtures in Australia. 
 
 
13 Bluey Technologies is a supplier of construction products for major civil engineering infrastructure works. Products 
include engineered, high-performance cements, waterproofing products and ground improvement solutions.  
14 On 8 February 2023, the European Commission approved, under the EU Merger Regulation, the proposed 
acquisition. It concluded that the proposed acquisition, as modified by the commitments, would no longer raise 
competition concerns in its jurisdiction.  
