1 
 
Our ref:  
IM-72559 
24 July 2024 
Dear Interested Party 
Request for submissions: Blackstone Group (HK) Limited’s proposed acquisition of 
I’rom Group Co Limited 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
the proposed acquisition of I’rom Group Co Limited (I’rom) by funds managed or advised 
by Blackstone Group (HK) Limited or its affiliates (Blackstone Funds) (the proposed 
acquisition).  
Blackstone Funds indirectly own Nucleus Network Pty Ltd (Nucleus) and I’rom owns CMAX 
Clinical Research Pty Ltd (CMAX). 
Nucleus and CMAX both supply Phase 1 clinical trial services in Australia. CMAX has one 
clinic in Adelaide, South Australia and Nucleus has two clinics, one in each of Melbourne, 
Victoria and Brisbane, Queensland. Further details are provided at Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigations are focused on the impact on competition. In particular, we are 
seeking your views on: 
• 
how closely Nucleus and CMAX compete in the supply of Phase 1 clinical trial services 
in Australia 
• 
the availability of alternative providers of Phase 1 clinical trial services, including the 
extent to which overseas providers act as an effective alternative for Australian 
customers 
• 
the likelihood of new entry or expansion in the supply of Phase 1 clinical trial services 
and the barriers associated with entry and/or expansion, and 
• 
the likely impact of the proposed acquisition on prices, quality and/or service levels in 
the supply of Phase 1 clinical trial services in Australia. 
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  
This matter is public, and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in section 
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
tel: (02) 6243 1368 
mergers@accc.gov.au
www.accc.gov.au


2 
 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
Please provide your response by 7 August 2024 via email to mergers@accc.gov.au with 
the title: Submission re: Blackstone – I’rom. If you require more time to respond, please let 
us know. 
If you would like to arrange a time to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any 
questions about this letter, please contact mergers@accc.gov.au. 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public Mergers 
Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC treats sensitive information it receives during a merger review as confidential 
and will not publish your submission. We will not disclose submissions to third parties 
(except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of 
information legislation or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the 
Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, we will notify you in advance where possible so that you have an opportunity 
to be heard. Therefore please clearly indicate if any information you provide is confidential. 
Our Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on 
confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
Morag Bond 
General Manager  
Merger Investigations  
 
 
 
 
 


3 
 
Attachment A 
Proposed acquisition 
Blackstone Funds, which indirectly own Nucleus, propose to acquire I’rom which 
currently owns CMAX. Nucleus and CMAX both supply Phase 1 clinical trial services.  
The acquirer – Blackstone Funds 
Blackstone Funds indirectly own Nucleus. Blackstone Funds also have interests in 
Precision Medical Group, a contract research organisation (CRO) with operations in North 
America, Europe, Asia and Australia. 
Nucleus supplies Phase 1 clinical trial services to global biotechnology and pharmaceutical 
companies. In Australia, Nucleus currently operates clinical units in Brisbane, Queensland 
and Melbourne, Victoria, as well as a satellite screening and outpatient clinic in Geelong, 
Victoria. Nucleus has 94 beds at its Melbourne clinic and 60 beds at its Brisbane facility.  
The target – I’rom 
I’rom is a healthcare business specialising in the research and development of medicine 
and gene technology. I’rom provides services to medical institutions conducting clinical 
trials, including site management and CRO services.  
In Australia, I’rom supplies Phase 1 clinical trials through CMAX, and to a limited extent 
clinical trial services for other research phases, through Fusion Clinical Research Pty Ltd 
(Fusion). Fusion administers late-stage clinical trials, which do not overlap with services 
provided by Nucleus. 
CMAX supplies Phase 1 clinical trial services to global biotechnology and pharmaceutical 
companies. CMAX currently operates one clinical unit in Adelaide, South Australia, which 
offers 78 patient beds.    
Phase 1 clinical trial services 
Clinical trials are usually conducted in phases, with each phase having a different focus. 
Phase 1 clinical trials involve experimental medicine being administered in low doses to 
humans. Phase 1 clinical trials are generally conducted on healthy volunteers and are 
focused on testing the safety and tolerability of medicine.  
Phase 1 clinical trial service providers may be engaged directly by biotechnology and 
pharmaceutical companies developing new medicines, or by contract research 
organisations (CROs) which manage the clinical trial process on behalf of biotechnology 
and pharmaceutical companies. 
 
 
 
 


4 
 
Attachment B 
1. Provide a brief description of your business or organisation. 
2. Outline the reasons for your interest in the proposed acquisition, including any 
commercial relationship/s with Blackstone Funds, I’rom, Nucleus and/or CMAX. 
The questions below are divided into questions for customers and alternative 
providers of Phase 1 clinical trial services, but you are welcome to comment on any 
question/s in any category. 
Questions for customers of Phase 1 clinical trial services 
3. Please describe how you procure Phase 1 clinical trial services, for example, 
through formal tender or other methods.  
4. Identify the key factors that you consider when choosing a Phase 1 clinical trial 
service provider (e.g. price, location, capacity, bed/recruitment numbers and 
timelines for clinical trials, quality of results, documentation or data). Describe 
how non price factors are assessed.  
5. Identify Phase 1 clinical trials that you have sponsored in the past 3 years and the 
Phase 1 clinical trial service provider that conducted each of these trials.  
6. Identify alternative providers of Phase 1 clinical trial services in Australia which 
compete with Nucleus and/or CMAX. 
7. Describe any consideration given to the transferability of data and/or the results 
of Phase 1 trials undertaken in Australia to other countries.  
8. Identify any benefits to a Phase 1 clinical trial provider having clinical sites in 
multiple locations, either in multiple Australian cities, or in Australia and in other 
jurisdictions.  
Questions for alternative providers of Phase 1 clinical trial services 
9. Please identify the types of clinical trial services you provide, and the location 
where you supply these services, including capacity at each location and any 
limitations experienced in recruitment numbers.  
10. Explain the basis on which you compete for the provision of Phase 1 clinical trial 
services (for example price, location, capacity and timelines for clinical trials, 
quality of results, documentation or data). 
11. From your perspective, what are the key requirements or factors users of Phase 1 
clinical trial services consider when selecting a provider.  
12. Identify and describe your competitors in the supply of Phase 1 clinical trial 
services in Australia and in other jurisdictions, if relevant. Please provide market 
shares where possible, and the basis for such shares.  
13. Explain the main requirements that must be met to supply Phase 1 clinical trial 
services in Australia or to expand the range of clinical trial services offered. In 
your response, you may wish to consider: 
a. the regulatory and other accreditations required to operate a Phase 1 
clinical trial facility   
b. the time and costs involved with entry or expansion 
c. the scale necessary to supply at competitive prices 


5 
 
d. the ease of securing customers and contracts for supply 
e. the ease of recruitment of any required specialist staff, and 
f. any other barriers. 
Provide recent examples of new entry or expansion where possible. 
14. Explain whether there are any limitations on how many Phase 1 clinical trial 
providers could profitably operate within a city (for example difficulties recruiting 
patients). 
15. Explain the impact of the Australian Research and Development Tax Incentive on 
the provision of Phase 1 clinical trials in Australia.  
Additional information and competition issues 
16. Describe whether and to what extent competing providers of Phase 1 clinical trial 
services would constrain Blackstone Funds from increasing prices and/or 
decreasing service levels for Phase 1 clinical trial services, including the impact 
of factors such as: 
a. 
the capacity of alternative providers of Phase 1 clinical trial services, and 
b. 
the availability of specialists or other staff required to provide Phase 1 
clinical trial services and meet regulatory requirements. 
17. Provide any additional information or comments that you consider relevant to the 
ACCC’s consideration of the proposed acquisition. 
