Page 1 of 7 
 
Public Competition Assessment 
5 February 2025 
Blackstone Group (HK) Limited - proposed acquisition of 
I’rom Group Co Limited  
 
The ACCC’s decision 
1. 
On 20 December 2024, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission 
announced its decision not to oppose the proposed acquisition of all of the 
shares of I’rom Group Co. Limited (I’rom) by funds managed or advised by 
Blackstone Group (HK) Limited or its related bodies corporate (Blackstone) (the 
proposed acquisition) after accepting a section 87B undertaking to divest 
CMAX Clinical Research Pty Ltd (CMAX) (the Undertaking). 
2. 
The ACCC considered that the proposed acquisition, in the absence of the 
Undertaking, was likely to substantially lessen competition in contravention of 
section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the Act). Section 50 
prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of 
substantially lessening competition in any market. The ACCC considers that the 
Undertaking sufficiently addresses the competition concerns such that the 
proposed acquisition is unlikely to contravene section 50 of the Act.  
3. 
Blackstone, through related bodies corporate, indirectly owns Nucleus Network 
Pty Limited (Nucleus) and I’rom owns CMAX. Nucleus and CMAX both provide 
phase 1 clinical trial services in Australia.  
4. 
The ACCC considered the competitive effects of the proposed acquisition in the 
markets for: 
• 
the supply of phase 1 clinical trial services in Australia  
• 
the supply of contract research organisation (CRO) services in Australia.  
5. 
Nucleus and CMAX are the two largest suppliers of phase 1 clinical trial services 
in Australia. Market feedback indicated that they are each other’s closest 
competitor. The ACCC considered that the loss of competition between Nucleus 
and CMAX was likely to lead to the prices of phase 1 clinical trial services in 
Australia being higher and/or the quality of those services being lower, than they 
would be absent the proposed acquisition.  


 
Page 2 of 7 
6. 
However, the ACCC considers that a divestiture of CMAX pursuant to the 
Undertaking will address its competition concerns with the proposed acquisition. 
This is because Nucleus and CMAX would not be under common ownership 
following the divestiture. 
7. 
Please note that this and other public competition assessments are subject to 
the following qualifications: 
• 
The ACCC considers each transaction on a case-by-case basis and so the 
analysis and decision outlined in one assessment will not necessarily 
reflect the ACCC’s view of another transaction. 
• 
As assessments are relatively brief and do not refer to confidential 
information, assessments do not necessarily set out all of the issues and 
information considered by the ACCC.  
The parties and the transaction  
The acquirer: Blackstone 
8. 
Blackstone is one of the largest asset managers operating globally. 
9. 
Relevant to the proposed acquisition, Blackstone indirectly owns Nucleus. 
Nucleus supplies phase 1 clinical trial services to biotechnology and 
pharmaceutical companies, based both in Australia and internationally. In 
Australia, Nucleus currently operates clinical units in Brisbane, Queensland and 
Melbourne, Victoria, as well as a satellite screening and outpatient clinic in 
Geelong, Victoria. Nucleus has 94 beds at its Melbourne clinic and 60 beds at its 
Brisbane facility. Nucleus has also announced that it intends to open a phase 1 
clinical trial unit in Sydney, New South Wales. 
10. Blackstone also has a majority interest in Precision Medicine Group, which 
operates the Precision for Medicine CRO. Precision for Medicine supplies clinical 
trial monitoring and management services to pharmaceutical and biotechnology 
companies and has operations in North America, Europe, Asia and Australia.  
The target: I’rom 
11. I’rom is a healthcare business based in Japan which specialises in the research 
and development of medicine and gene technology. I’rom provides services to 
medical institutions conducting clinical trials, including site management and 
CRO services. 
12. In Australia, I’rom supplies phase 1 clinical trials through CMAX, and, to a limited 
extent, clinical trial services for other research phases through Fusion Clinical 
Research Pty Ltd (Fusion). Fusion administers late-stage clinical trials, which do 
not overlap with services provided by Nucleus and CMAX. 
13. CMAX supplies phase 1 clinical trial services to biotechnology and 
pharmaceutical companies, in Australia and internationally. CMAX currently 
operates one clinical unit in Adelaide, South Australia, which has 78 beds. 


 
Page 3 of 7 
The transaction  
14. Blackstone, which indirectly owns Nucleus, proposes to acquire I’rom which 
currently owns CMAX. 
Market inquiries 
15. The ACCC conducted market inquiries with a range of industry participants, 
including competitors, potential competitors, phase 1 clinical trial sponsors, 
CROs, industry bodies, other regulatory agencies and other interested parties.  
16. The ACCC consulted on the potential competition issues associated with the 
proposed acquisition and obtained confidential information and documents from 
the merger parties. 
Industry background 
17. Clinical trials are an integral component in the regulatory approval of new 
therapeutic products such as medicines and medical devices. Clinical trials are 
generally conducted in phases with each phase having a different focus. 
18. Phase 1 clinical trials involve medicine being administered in low doses to 
humans for the first time. Phase 1 clinical trials are generally conducted with 
healthy volunteers and are focused on testing the safety and tolerability of 
medicine. 
19. Phase 1 clinical trials involving healthy volunteers are generally conducted in 
purpose-built clinical trial facilities. These facilities usually have an inpatient bed 
capacity, so that volunteers can be contained and monitored closely for a period 
after medication is administered. These facilities are equipped similarly to 
hospitals and are staffed by medical professionals with experience managing 
clinical trials. 
20. CROs in Australia assist sponsors with selecting phase 1 trial sites, and 
overseeing trials that are being undertaken. Many international drug sponsors, 
particularly those with no existing Australian research and development 
operations, also rely on CROs with operations in Australia to act as an Australian 
sponsor, as having an Australian sponsor is a regulatory requirement to conduct 
clinical trials in Australia. 
21. Market participants indicated that Australia is generally considered to have a 
favourable regulatory pathway for phase 1 clinical trials. The Clinical Trial 
Notification (CTN) scheme in Australia requires that drug sponsors wishing to 
carry out clinical trials in Australia obtain ethical approval from a Human 
Research Ethics Committee and then notify the Therapeutic Goods 
Administration (TGA) of their intent to carry out the trial. Trials can commence 
once they have been notified to the TGA without any formal approval being 
required. Market participants have indicated that the CTN scheme in Australia 
can enable trials to commence significantly faster than in other jurisdictions and 
that data gathered in Australian clinical trials is accepted by US and European 
regulators. 


 
Page 4 of 7 
22. Australia offers a research and development tax incentive program (R&D Tax 
Incentive) which allows companies to claim tax offsets on eligible research and 
development activities.1  
Other phase 1 clinical trial service providers 
23. Linear Clinical Research (Linear) is a phase 1 clinical trial service provider that 
was founded in 2010. Linear has a capacity of 32 beds across four clinics in 
Perth, Western Australia and operates as a not-for-profit organisation. 
24. Scientia Clinical Research (Scientia) is a phase 1 clinical trial service provider 
that was founded in 2015. Scientia is based in Sydney, New South Wales and 
has a capacity of 30 beds. Scientia operates as a not-for-profit organisation. 
25. Veritus Research (Veritus) and Doherty Clinical Trials (DCT) in Melbourne, 
Victoria, and Novatrials in Newcastle, New South Wales, have each recently 
commenced supplying phase 1 clinical trial services. 
26. There are also several smaller providers of phase 1 clinical trial services in 
Australia. These providers are typically closely associated with hospitals or 
research institutions and complete a small number of trials per year. 
Competition analysis in respect of the supply of phase 1 
clinical trial services in Australia 
27. The ACCC considered the proposed acquisition would be likely to have the 
effect of substantially lessening competition in the market for the supply of phase 
1 clinical trial services in Australia, by bringing the two largest providers of phase 
1 clinical trial services, based on phase 1 clinical trial bed capacity, in Australia 
under common ownership and lessening the competitive constraints on these 
providers. 
28. The ACCC considered common ownership of Nucleus and CMAX would be 
likely to lead to the prices of phase 1 clinical trial services in Australia being 
higher and/or the quality of those services being lower, than they would be 
absent the proposed acquisition. 
Market definition 
29. The ACCC’s starting point for identifying the markets that would be affected by 
the proposed acquisition is to ascertain the areas of overlap between the 
products actually or potentially supplied by the merger parties. The ACCC then 
considers other actual or potential suppliers of those products, as well as what 
other products constitute sufficiently close substitutes to provide a significant 
source of constraint on the combined entity. 
30. The ACCC considered that the relevant market was the supply of phase 1 
clinical trial services in Australia. The ACCC considered that alternative 
providers of phase 1 clinical trial services in Australia were likely to impose the 
strongest competitive constraint on Nucleus and CMAX. Based on material 
provided to the ACCC, the ACCC understands that Australian providers of phase 
 
1  
Australian Taxation Office, Eligibility for R&D tax offsets, accessed October 2024. 


 
Page 5 of 7 
1 clinical trial services are typically 25-30% cheaper than US and European 
providers, produce high quality results that readily transfer to other jurisdictions 
for subsequent phase trials and are able to commence new trials in 4-6 weeks 
compared with up to 6 months in the US. 
31. The ACCC considered that overseas providers of phase 1 clinical trial services 
impose a more limited competitive constraint on Australian providers taking into 
account the benefits associated with the CTN scheme, the quality and usability 
of data obtained through phase 1 clinical trials undertaken in Australia and R&D 
tax incentive. 
Competition analysis 
32. Nucleus and CMAX are the two largest suppliers of phase 1 clinical trial services 
in Australia. The ACCC considered that they are each other’s closest 
competitors. Both Nucleus and CMAX focus on providing phase 1 clinical trial 
services to biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies based both in Australia 
and internationally.  
33. Data available to the ACCC shows that a combined Nucleus and CMAX would 
account for approximately 60% of the phase 1 clinical trial bed capacity in 
Australia. The ACCC considered that bed numbers may be representative of the 
general capacity of phase 1 clinical trial service providers, but notes specialist 
skills and experience are required to successfully deliver phase 1 clinical trial 
services. In particular, certain types of trials may require specific skills and 
equipment or may not require volunteers to be contained overnight or use beds. 
34. The ACCC received market feedback from industry participants which indicated 
that CMAX is an effective competitor to Nucleus, with most considering CMAX to 
be Nucleus’ closest competitor. 
35. The ACCC considered that competition from existing providers of phase 1 
clinical trial services in Australia would not be likely to sufficiently constrain a 
combined Nucleus and CMAX. The ACCC considered that other Australian 
providers of phase 1 clinical trial services including those identified at 
paragraphs 23 to 26 have more limited bed capacity and differing levels of 
expertise, including that some providers focus on trials for different therapeutic 
areas (for example vaccine development and oncology clinical trials). Due to 
these differences, alternative providers may not be a realistic alternative to 
Nucleus and CMAX for all sponsors.  
36. Market feedback indicated that the barriers to commence supply of phase 1 
clinical trial services are relatively high and that it can take a number of years to 
develop effective phase 1 clinical trial expertise. The ACCC considered that the 
likelihood of timely and effective new entry was relatively low. 
37. As such, the ACCC considered that post acquisition, a combined Nucleus and 
CMAX would likely be able to profitably increase prices and/or decrease service 
quality for customers of phase 1 clinical trial services in Australia. 
38. The ACCC concluded that, without the Undertaking, the proposed acquisition 
would be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in the 
supply of phase 1 clinical trial services in Australia.  


 
Page 6 of 7 
Competition analysis in respect of the supply of CRO 
services in Australia 
39. The ACCC considered the proposed acquisition may have substantially lessened 
competition in the provision of CRO services by increasing Blackstone’s ability 
and incentive to foreclose rival CROs to Precision for Medicine from accessing 
phase 1 clinical trial services provided by Nucleus and CMAX. This may have 
substantially lessened competition if those rivals could not access competitively 
effective alternative providers of phase 1 clinical trial services. 
40. The ACCC considered that CROs play an important role in Australia by assisting 
sponsors to select phase 1 trial sites, and overseeing trials that are being 
undertaken. Many international drug sponsors, particularly those with no 
Australian operations, also rely on CROs with operations in Australia to act as an 
Australian sponsor, as having an Australian sponsor is a regulatory requirement 
to conduct clinical trials in Australia.  
41. The ACCC considered that Blackstone having ownership interests in the two 
largest providers of phase 1 clinical trial services and the Precision for Medicine 
CRO may have increased Blackstone’s ability and incentive to foreclose rival 
CROs by restricting their access to phase 1 clinical trial services provided by 
Nucleus and CMAX.  
42. Ultimately the ACCC did not reach a concluded view on these issues as the 
Undertaking addresses any potential competition concerns in the supply of CRO 
services in Australia that may have otherwise arisen.  
Undertaking 
43. In order to address the ACCC’s competition concerns in relation to the supply of 
phase 1 clinical trial services in Australia, Blackstone through BXJB II Holding 
KK (BXJB), a subsidiary of Blackstone, offered an Undertaking pursuant to 
section 87B of the Act. 
44. The ACCC considered that the Undertaking addresses its competition concerns 
with the proposed acquisition as it requires BXJB to divest the CMAX business 
to an ACCC-approved purchaser, effectively removing the overlap between the 
parties in Australia. The Undertaking aims to maintain CMAX as a viable, 
effective, stand-alone, and independent competitor for the supply of phase 1 
clinical trial services in Australia. 
45. A copy of the Undertaking is available on the ACCC public informal merger 
reviews register and section 87B undertakings register. A brief summary of the 
Undertaking is set out below: 
• 
BXJB will divest the CMAX business to an ACCC-approved purchaser that 
will result in the maintenance of a viable, effective, stand-alone, 
independent and long-term competitor for phase I clinical trial services in 
Australia 
• 
BXJB will ensure that the purchaser has all of the necessary associated 
assets and rights to compete effectively with Nucleus in the supply of 


 
Page 7 of 7 
phase 1 clinical trials services in Australia, and in the supply of contract 
research organisations CRO services in Australia 
• 
BXJB must maintain the economic viability, marketability, competitiveness 
and goodwill of the CMAX business prior to divestiture 
• 
BXJB must appoint and maintain an ACCC-approved independent auditor 
for the effective oversight of BXJB’s compliance with the Undertaking. 
Conclusion 
46. Based on the above analysis, the ACCC considered that Blackstone’s proposed 
acquisition of I’rom in the absence of the Undertaking, would be likely to have 
the effect of substantially lessening competition in the supply of phase 1 clinical 
trial services in Australia and may have the effect of substantially lessening 
competition in the provision of CRO services in Australia. 
47. However, the ACCC considers that the Undertaking addresses these 
competition concerns such that, with the Undertaking, the proposed acquisition 
would not have the effect, nor be likely to have the effect, of substantially 
lessening competition in any market. 
