 
 
1 
 
Statement of Issues 
7 November 2024 
Blackstone Group (HK) Limited – proposed 
acquisition of I’rom Group Co Limited 
Purpose 
1. 
Funds managed or advised by Blackstone Group (HK) Limited or its related bodies 
corporate (Blackstone) propose to acquire all of the shares of I’rom Group Co. Limited 
(I’rom) (the proposed acquisition). Blackstone, through related bodies corporate, 
indirectly owns Nucleus Network Pty Limited (Nucleus) and I’rom owns CMAX Clinical 
Research Pty Ltd (CMAX). 
2. 
This Statement of Issues: 
• gives the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission’s (ACCC) preliminary 
views on competition issues arising from the proposed acquisition 
• identifies areas of further inquiry, and 
• invites interested parties to submit comments and information to assist the ACCC’s 
assessment of the issues. 
3. 
Statements of Issues do not refer to confidential information provided by the parties or 
other market participants and therefore may not fully articulate the ACCC’s preliminary 
position. 
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views 
4. 
In considering the proposed acquisition, the ACCC applies the legal test set out in 
section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the CCA). In general terms, 
section 50 prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to have the 
effect, of substantially lessening competition in any market. 
5. 
The ACCC divides its preliminary views into three categories, 'issues of concern', 
'issues that may raise concerns' and ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’. In this 
Statement of Issues there is one ‘issue of concern’ and one ‘issue that may raise 
concerns’.  
Issue of concern 
6. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is likely to have the effect 
of substantially lessening competition in the supply of phase 1 clinical trial services in 


 
 
2 
Australia. The proposed acquisition brings the two largest providers of phase 1 clinical 
trial services in Australia under common ownership and is likely to significantly lessen 
the competitive constraints on these providers.  
7. 
The ACCC is concerned that this is likely to lead to the prices of phase 1 clinical trial 
services in Australia being higher and/or the quality of those services being lower, than 
they would be absent the proposed acquisition. 
Issue that may raise concerns 
8. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition may also have the effect of 
substantially lessening competition in the supply of services offered by contract 
research organisations (CROs). CROs provide services to drug sponsors and assist 
with selecting phase 1 clinical trial service providers.  
9. 
Blackstone has a majority interest in Precision Medicine Group, which operates the 
Precision for Medicine CRO. Precision for Medicine supplies clinical trial monitoring 
and management services to pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including 
in Australia. The ACCC is concerned that post acquisition Blackstone may have the 
ability and incentive to foreclose CROs which compete with Precision for Medicine by 
restricting their access to phase 1 clinical trial services provided by Nucleus and 
CMAX. Such conduct may significantly lessen competition in the supply of CRO 
services in Australia. 
Making a submission 
10. 
The ACCC invites submissions from interested parties, particularly on the following key 
issues: 
• the closeness of competition between Nucleus and CMAX, including in relation to 
quality, pricing and capacity to undertake new trials quickly 
• the extent to which other Australian providers of phase 1 clinical trial services 
compete with Nucleus and CMAX, including in relation to quality, pricing and 
capacity to undertake new trials quickly  
• the extent to which internationally based providers of phase 1 clinical trial services 
compete with Nucleus and CMAX for customers in Australia including in relation to 
quality, pricing, capacity to undertake new trials quickly and regulatory approval 
systems 
• the height of barriers and likelihood of timely and effective new entry and/or 
expansion by alternative providers of phase 1 clinical trial providers in Australia 
• the likelihood the proposed acquisition would result in prices of phase 1 clinical trial 
services being higher and/or the quality of those services being lower than they 
would be absent the proposed acquisition, and 
• whether rival CROs would have access to competitively effective alternative 
providers of phase 1 clinical trial services if they were unable to access services 
provided by Nucleus and CMAX. 
11. 
Interested parties should provide submissions by 5pm on 21 November 2024. 
Responses may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: Submission re: 
Blackstone’s proposed acquisition of I’rom.  


 
 
3 
12. 
The ACCC anticipates making a final decision on 6 February 2025, however, this 
timeline can change. To keep up with possible timing changes and to find relevant 
documents, interested parties should visit the Mergers Register on the ACCC's website 
at www.accc.gov.au/publicregisters/mergers-registers/public-informal-merger-
reviews. 
Confidentiality of submissions 
13. 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. The ACCC 
will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) unless 
compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or during 
court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the CCA. Where the ACCC is 
required to disclose confidential information, the ACCC will notify you in advance 
where possible so that you may have an opportunity to be heard. Therefore, please 
identify any confidential information that is provided to the ACCC. The ACCC’s Informal 
Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’ 
14. 
A Statement of Issues is not a final decision about a proposed acquisition. A 
Statement of Issues outlines the ACCC’s preliminary views and identifies further lines 
of inquiry. 
15. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide the 
merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 
The parties 
The acquirer: Blackstone 
16. 
Blackstone is one of the largest alternative asset managers operating globally. 
17. 
Relevant to the proposed acquisition, Blackstone indirectly owns Nucleus. Blackstone 
also has a majority interest in Precision Medicine Group, which operates the Precision 
for Medicine contract research organisation (CRO). Precision for Medicine supplies 
clinical trial monitoring and management services to pharmaceutical and 
biotechnology companies and has operations in North America, Europe, Asia and 
Australia. However, the Australian operations are currently limited.  
18. 
Nucleus supplies phase 1 clinical trial services to biotechnology and pharmaceutical 
companies, based both in Australia and internationally. In Australia, Nucleus currently 
operates clinical units in Brisbane, Queensland and Melbourne, Victoria, as well as a 
satellite screening and outpatient clinic in Geelong, Victoria. Nucleus has 94 beds at its 
Melbourne clinic and 60 beds at its Brisbane facility. Nucleus has also announced that 
it intends to open a phase 1 clinical trial unit in Sydney. 
The target: I’rom  
19. 
I’rom is a healthcare business based in Japan which specialises in the research and 
development of medicine and gene technology. I’rom provides services to medical 
institutions conducting clinical trials, including site management and CRO services. 


 
 
4 
20. 
In Australia, I’rom supplies phase 1 clinical trials through CMAX, and, to a limited 
extent, clinical trial services for other research phases through Fusion Clinical 
Research Pty Ltd (Fusion). Fusion administers late-stage clinical trials, which do not 
overlap with services provided by Nucleus and CMAX. 
21. 
CMAX supplies phase 1 clinical trial services to biotechnology and pharmaceutical 
companies, in Australia and internationally. CMAX currently operates one clinical unit 
in Adelaide, South Australia, which has 78 beds. 
Industry Background  
22. 
Clinical trials are a step in the regulatory approval of new therapeutic products such as 
medicines and medical devices. Clinical trials are generally conducted in phases with 
each phase having a different focus. 
23. 
Phase 1 clinical trials involve medicine being administered in low doses to humans for 
the first time. Phase 1 clinical trials are generally conducted with healthy volunteers 
and are focused on testing the safety and tolerability of medicine.  
24. 
The number of healthy volunteers required for a phase 1 clinical trial depends on the 
medication and type of trial being undertaken. Market participants indicated that, for 
typical phase 1 clinical trials, between 20 and 80 healthy volunteers are generally 
appropriate, although there are likely to be separate cohorts dosed over a number of 
weeks.  
25. 
In some limited circumstances, such as where the intervention is known to carry 
significant health side-effects, phase 1 clinical trials may be conducted using a cohort 
of patients rather than healthy volunteers. This is common for phase 1 clinical trials 
related to oncology medications. 
26. 
Phase 1 clinical trials involving healthy volunteers are generally conducted in purpose-
built clinical trial facilities. These facilities usually have an inpatient bed capacity, so 
that volunteers can be contained and monitored closely for a period after medication 
is administered. These facilities are equipped similarly to hospitals and are staffed by 
medical professionals with experience managing clinical trials. 
27. 
If a phase 1 clinical trial indicates that a new product is safe, the product can then 
proceed to phase 2, 3 and 4 trials where it is tested more extensively, including for 
efficacy. Data from phase 1 clinical trials conducted in Australia can be used to 
conduct later phase clinical trials in other jurisdictions. 
Australia’s regulatory environment 
28. 
Market participants indicated that Australia is generally considered to have a 
favourable regulatory pathway for phase 1 clinical trials. The Clinical Trial Notification 
(CTN) scheme in Australia requires that drug sponsors wishing to carry out clinical 
trials in Australia obtain ethical approval from a Human Research Ethics Committee 
(HREC) and then notify the Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA) of their intent to 
carry out the trial. Trials are able to commence once they have been notified to the 
TGA without any formal approval being required.  
29. 
Market participants have indicated that the CTN scheme in Australia can enable trials 
to commence significantly faster than in other jurisdictions. Market participants 


 
 
5 
indicated that trials may be able to be commenced within 6 weeks of making an 
application for HREC approval. 
30. 
In many other jurisdictions, the regulatory pathway is significantly more onerous. For 
example, in the USA, sponsors must receive approval from a HREC and complete an 
Investigation of New Drug (IND) application, which is assessed by the Food and Drug 
Administration. Market participants indicated that receiving IND approval can take up 
to 6 months. 
31. 
Data collected from phase 1 clinical trials conducted in Australia is considered to be 
high quality and is accepted by authorities in all major jurisdictions (which is beneficial 
if the drug sponsor wishes to continue conducting later phase clinical trials in an 
alternative jurisdiction). Many sponsors value the ability to conduct their phase 1 trial 
relatively quickly in Australia, then use the data to conduct subsequent trials in other 
jurisdictions. 
Australian R&D Tax Incentive 
32. 
Australia offers a research and development tax incentive program (R&D Tax 
Incentive) which allows companies to claim tax offsets on eligible research and 
development activities.1 
33. 
Companies carrying out eligible activities in Australia may be eligible for tax offsets in 
Australia, which vary based on the entities’ turnover and expenditure.2  
34. 
Market participants have indicated that phase 1 clinical trials are generally considered 
to be an eligible research and development activity. As such, drug sponsors 
undertaking phase 1 clinical trials in Australia may be able to access the R&D Tax 
Incentive, which provides a strong incentive for sponsors to carry out their R&D 
activities in Australia.  
Current competitive landscape for phase 1 clinical trial services 
35. 
Nucleus and CMAX are the two largest providers of phase 1 clinical trial services in 
Australia. Nucleus has 94 beds at its Melbourne unit and 60 beds at its Brisbane unit 
and CMAX has 78 beds at its Adelaide unit. Other providers have significantly smaller 
footprints and less capacity than both Nucleus and CMAX as shown in Table 1 below. 
Table 1: Bed numbers of Australian phase 1 clinical trial service providers 
Provider 
Location 
Number of beds 
Share of beds in 
Australia 
Nucleus 
Melbourne, 
Brisbane 
154 
39.4% 
CMAX 
Adelaide 
78 
19.9% 
Merged entity 
Melbourne, 
Brisbane, Adelaide 
232 
59.3% 
 
1  
Australian Taxation Office, Eligibility for R&D tax offsets, accessed October 2024. 
2   
Australian Taxation Office, Rates of R&D tax incentive offset, accessed October 2024.  


 
 
6 
Provider 
Location 
Number of beds 
Share of beds in 
Australia 
Veritus 
Melbourne 
42 
10.7% 
Linear 
Perth 
32 
8.2% 
Scientia 
Sydney 
30 
7.7% 
Novatrials  
Newcastle 
30 
7.7% 
Doherty Clinical Trials 
Melbourne 
25 
6.4% 
University of the 
Sunshine Coast 
Sunshine Coast, 
Moreton Bay and 
Brisbane 
Not publicly available 
Unknown 
Total 
 
391 
100% 
 
36. 
The ACCC considers that bed numbers may be representative of the general capacity 
of phase 1 clinical trial service providers, but notes specialist skills and experience are 
required to successfully deliver phase 1 clinical trial services. These requirements are 
discussed in more detail at paragraphs 58-63 below. The ACCC is also considering 
other measures of the share of supply in Australia including the number of trials 
undertaken and revenue earned by providers for phase 1 clinical trials. 
37. 
Linear Clinical Research (Linear) in Perth and Scientia Clinical Research (Scientia) in 
Sydney are the two most established competitors to Nucleus and CMAX.  Both 
providers offer services broadly similar to that offered by Nucleus and CMAX and 
frequently compete with Nucleus and CMAX for phase 1 clinical trial opportunities. 
However, Linear and Scientia are both significantly smaller than Nucleus and CMAX 
and are likely to have a more limited capacity to undertake new trials.  
38. 
We understand that other competitors to Nucleus and CMAX listed in Table 1 may 
offer more specialised services targeted at specific types of trials, such as vaccine 
trials or oncology trials in patient populations. 
39. 
Two new providers have recently commenced supplying phase 1 clinical trial services 
in Melbourne. They are Veritus with a 42 bed unit and Doherty Clinical Trials with a 25 
bed unit. Novatrials has also recently commenced supplying phase 1 clinical trial 
services in Newcastle, NSW with a 30 bed unit. The ACCC understands that drug 
sponsors are risk-averse and prefer to engage providers with a proven track record of 
successfully undertaking phase 1 clinical trials. For this reason, it can take several 
years for new entrants to establish themselves as reputable trial providers and utilise 
their full capacity. New entrants may therefore impose a lower level of competitive 
constraint compared to other established providers. 
The proposed acquisition 
40. 
Blackstone, which indirectly owns Nucleus, proposes to acquire I’rom which currently 
owns CMAX. 


 
 
7 
Future with and without the acquisition 
41. 
In assessing a proposed acquisition under section 50 of the CCA, the ACCC considers 
the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future state of competition if the 
acquisition proceeds (the ’with’ position) to the likely future state of competition if the 
acquisition does not proceed (the ‘without’ position) to determine whether the 
proposed acquisition is likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition 
in any relevant market.  
42. 
The ACCC considers that in the absence of the proposed acquisition, the most likely 
counterfactual is that CMAX would continue to operate independently.  
Overlap and potential markets 
43. 
The ACCC has not reached a concluded view on market definition. 
44. 
The ACCC considers that alternative providers of phase 1 clinical trial services in 
Australia are likely to impose the strongest competitive constraint on Nucleus and 
CMAX. The ACCC understands that Australia is considered to be a favourable 
destination to conduct phase 1 clinical trials because: 
• 
conducting phase 1 clinical trials in Australia is generally cheaper than the US 
and most parts of Europe due to factors including the R&D Tax Incentive and 
favourable exchange rates. Market participants have indicated that it is 
generally 25-30% cheaper to run a clinical trial in Australia compared to other 
jurisdictions such as the US (depending on the exchange rate) and that it can 
be up to 60% cheaper including the R&D Tax Incentive. 
• 
Australia has a favourable regulatory environment for early-phase clinical trials 
owing to the CTN scheme which can allow for new trials to commence in 4-6 
weeks compared to up to 6 months in the USA.  
• 
the quality of data produced from phase 1 clinical trial units in Australia is 
regarded as high and therefore is easily transferred to other jurisdictions, where 
drug sponsors often undertake later phase clinical trials. 
• 
Australia has a multicultural population which can be valuable when 
conducting phase 1 clinical trials, to ensure drugs are tested in diverse cohorts.  
45. 
For the reasons listed above, customers may have a preference for using a phase 1 
clinical trial service provider based in Australia. Therefore, alternative Australian phase 
1 clinical trial service providers are likely to impose the most competitive constraint on 
Nucleus and CMAX. In particular, the ACCC understands that, based on market 
inquiries to date, Australian-based drug sponsors generally use Australian providers of 
phase 1 clinical trials. . 
46. 
The ACCC is considering the degree of constraint likely to be imposed on the 
Blackstone owned providers by overseas providers of phase 1 clinical trial services. 
The ACCC is also considering whether the degree of competitive constraint provided 
by overseas based providers of phase 1 clinical trial services varies depending upon 
whether the drug sponsor is based in Australia or overseas.  
47. 
The ACCC is also considering whether competition concerns may arise in relation to 
the supply of CRO services in Australia. 


 
 
8 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary views about 
relevant markets. In particular, market participants may wish to comment on: 
• 
the benefits and any drawbacks associated with conducting phase 1 clinical trials in 
Australia compared to other jurisdictions 
• 
the degree of competitive constraint imposed by other Australian providers of phase 1 
clinical trial services, including in relation to quality, pricing and capacity to undertake 
new trials quickly, and 
• 
the degree of competitive constraint provided by internationally based providers of 
phase 1 clinical trial services which compete with Nucleus and CMAX, including in 
relation to quality, pricing, capacity to undertake new trials quickly and regulatory 
approval systems. 
Issue of concern – reduction in competition in the supply of phase 
1 clinical trial services in Australia 
48. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is likely to have the effect 
of substantially lessening competition in the supply of phase 1 clinical trial services in 
Australia. This is because the proposed acquisition would bring the two largest 
providers of phase 1 clinical trial services in Australia under common ownership and 
accordingly is likely to significantly lessen the competitive constraints on these 
providers.  
Loss of a close competitive constraint  
49. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that Nucleus and CMAX are close competitors for the 
supply of phase 1 clinical trial services in Australia and that the proposed acquisition 
would result in the removal of an effective competitive constraint. Nucleus and CMAX 
are currently the two largest providers of phase 1 clinical trial services in Australia, 
with Nucleus holding approximately 39.4% of the phase 1 clinical trial bed capacity in 
Australia and CMAX holding approximately 19.9%. Nucleus and CMAX both focus on 
providing phase 1 clinical trial services to biotechnology and pharmaceutical 
companies based both in Australia and internationally. 
50. 
The ACCC understands that drug sponsors that have determined they wish to 
undertake a phase 1 clinical trial in Australia will generally seek tender responses from 
at least Nucleus and CMAX. Smaller providers may also be considered.  
51. 
Drug sponsors that the ACCC has spoken with have indicated that the ability of  
phase 1 clinical trial service providers to commence clinical trials in a short period can 
be important in choosing a provider. Market participants indicated that, due to Nucleus 
and CMAX having significantly larger bed capacity than other Australian competitors, 
they are likely to have increased ability to commence trials more quickly than other 
providers. 
52. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition would remove the competitive 
pressure that CMAX has been exerting on Nucleus. Market participants have identified 
that CMAX offers high quality services at competitive prices, with most considering 
CMAX to be Nucleus’ closest competitor. Some drug sponsors have also indicated 
that CMAX offers increased flexibility and the ability to commence trials and deliver 
results from trials more quickly than Nucleus. 


 
 
9 
53. 
Market participants observed that CMAX has been a driver of price competition and 
quality service delivery, and they expressed concern that if the proposed acquisition 
proceeds, there will be a loss of competitive constraint on Nucleus. 
Competitive constraint from other providers 
54. 
The ACCC is considering whether other providers of phase 1 clinical trial services 
could exert sufficient competitive constraint on the Blackstone owned providers if the 
proposed acquisition proceeds. The ACCC is considering the level of competitive 
constraint provided by other providers of phase 1 clinical trial services, including the 
constraint provided by other Australian providers and internationally based providers 
of phase 1 clinical trial services. 
55. 
Other Australian providers of phase 1 clinical trial services include Linear, Scientia, 
University of the Sunshine Coast Clinical Trials and new entrants Veritus, Doherty 
Clinical Trials and Novatrials. However, these providers all have significantly less bed 
capacity than Nucleus and CMAX and therefore less capacity to undertake trials. 
56. 
There are also a wide range of internationally based providers of phase 1 clinical trial 
service providers, in jurisdictions such as the USA, Europe, Canada and New Zealand. 
As outlined above at paragraph 44, the ACCC understands that there are a number of 
factors that make Australia a favourable destination to undertake phase 1 clinical 
trials. These include the relative speed at which phase 1 clinical trials can be 
commenced, the availability of the R&D Tax Incentive, the quality of data produced 
from Australian phase 1 units and the multicultural population available in Australia.  
57. 
For these reasons, the ACCC considers that internationally based providers of phase 1 
clinical trial services are likely to only provide a limited competitive constraint on the 
pricing and quality of phase 1 clinical trial services provided in Australia. The ACCC 
understands, based on market inquiries to date, that drug sponsors based in Australia 
prefer conducting trials in Australia including for the reasons outlined in paragraph 44. 
Barriers to entry and expansion 
58. 
The ACCC is considering whether new entry or expansion into Phase 1 clinical trials 
would be likely, timely and sufficient to prevent a substantial lessening of competition 
that might otherwise result from the proposed acquisition. 
59. 
Market feedback suggests that barriers to commence the supply of phase 1 clinical 
trial services are likely to be relatively high and include: 
• 
recruitment of qualified staff, which may be in limited supply, or adequate time 
to recruit, train and upskill staff coming from different backgrounds  
• 
building a database of interested healthy volunteers, and 
• 
developing a reputation and track record for quality which is required for drug 
sponsors to have confidence to use the services and is likely to take several 
years.  
60. 
Phase 1 clinical trials involving healthy volunteers are generally conducted in purpose-
built clinical trial facilities which have inpatient bed capacity. These facilities are 
equipped similarly to hospitals and therefore capital costs to construct an appropriate 
facility can be high. Market participants estimated that these costs can be between 
$10-20 million. 


 
 
10 
61. 
New entrants need to recruit skilled staff. Staff are required to have medical skills, 
such as nursing qualifications and experience, but also experience with conducting 
clinical trials and handling potential adverse reactions to new medications. The ACCC 
understands that there are no specific training courses in Australia for these skills, so 
staff are usually trained by phase 1 trial providers. Some staff employed by phase 1 
clinical trial service providers are also subject to non-compete clauses which restrict 
their ability to move to alternative providers. 
62. 
Significantly, market feedback indicates that once a facility is established, there are 
significant timeframes involved with attracting sponsors (customers) and developing a 
reputation and track record for quality service delivery. Some new entrants indicated 
that for these reasons, in the first couple of years of operation they would be likely to 
undertake a limited number of trials with a focus on ensuring a high quality service is 
provided to sponsors. Market participants indicated that it may take 3-5 years to build 
up to full utilisation of facilities.  
63. 
Given there are significant timeframes associated with setting up new facilities, 
recruiting specialised staff and developing a reputation for quality, the ACCC considers 
that the likelihood of timely and effective new entry or expansion in Australia is 
relatively low. 
ACCC’s preliminary views 
64. 
In summary, the ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition brings the two 
largest providers of phase 1 clinical trial services in Australia under common 
ownership, removing an important source of competitive tension.  
65. 
The ACCC is concerned that other providers are unlikely to significantly constrain the 
Blackstone owned providers post-acquisition. This is particularly so because Nucleus 
and CMAX have significantly larger capacity than other phase 1 clinical trial service 
providers in Australia and have established reputations for delivering on phase 1 
clinical trials. Given the height of barriers to entry and expansion, the ACCC considers 
that timely and effective new entry or expansion is unlikely to constrain Nucleus and 
CMAX if the proposed acquisition proceeds.  
66. 
Accordingly, the ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition is likely to result in 
lower service quality and/or higher prices for customers of phase 1 clinical trial 
services in Australia than would occur in a future without the proposed acquisition.  
Questions for market participants 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on: 
• 
the closeness of competition between Nucleus and CMAX 
• 
the degree of competitive constraint imposed on Nucleus and CMAX by other 
providers of phase 1 clinical trial services in Australia, including Linear, Scientia, 
University of the Sunshine Coast Clinical Trials and new entrants Veritus, Doherty 
Clinical Trials and Novatrials 
• 
the degree of competitive constraint on Nucleus and CMAX by internationally based 
providers of phase 1 clinical trial services  
• 
the likelihood of new entry and/or expansion in the supply of phase 1 clinical trial 
services in Australia, and 
• 
whether the degree of competitive constraint imposed on Nucleus and CMAX differs 
by domicile of drug sponsor, type of phase 1 clinical trial, or any other factor.  


 
 
11 
Issue that may raise concerns – foreclosure or frustration of rival 
CROs’ access to phase 1 clinical trial services in Australia 
67. 
The proposed acquisition would result in Blackstone having interests in the two largest 
phase 1 clinical trial service providers as well as the Precision for Medicine CRO, which 
provides CRO services in Australia, although we understand its Australian operations 
are currently limited. 
68. 
While the ACCC is concerned that, at a general level, this loss of competition between 
Nucleus and CMAX is likely to lead to higher prices and/or lower service levels for 
phase 1 clinical trials services in Australia, the ACCC is also considering Blackstone’s 
ability and incentive post-acquisition to foreclose rival CROs to Precision for Medicine 
from accessing phase 1 clinical trial services provided by Nucleus and CMAX, which 
may lessen competition in the provision of CRO services if those rivals cannot access 
competitively effective alternative providers of phase 1 clinical trial services. 
69. 
CROs play an important role in Australia in assisting sponsors with selecting phase 1 
trial sites, and overseeing trials that are being undertaken. Many international drug 
sponsors, particularly those with no Australian operations, also rely on CROs with 
operations in Australia to act as an Australian sponsor, which is a regulatory 
requirement to conduct clinical trials in Australia.  
70. 
A large proportion of drug sponsors that the ACCC spoke with indicated that they 
would engage a CRO to assist them in selecting and liaising with phase 1 clinical trial 
service providers, as CROs have expertise that drug sponsors generally do not have 
internally.  
71. 
The ACCC is considering the extent to which Blackstone, through its interest in 
Precision for Medicine and the two largest providers of phase 1 clinical trial services, 
would have the ability and incentive to restrict rival CROs from accessing phase 1 
clinical trial services offered by Nucleus and CMAX and if such a strategy was 
adopted, whether it would substantially lessen competition in a market for CRO 
services. 
Questions for market participants 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to: 
• 
whether engagement with CROs is a critical step and the extent to which drug 
sponsors can and do engage with phase 1 clinical trial service providers directly 
• 
the extent of Precision for Medicine’s operations in Australia, and 
• 
whether rival CROs would have access to competitively effective alternative providers 
of phase 1 clinical trial services if they were unable to access services provided by 
Nucleus and CMAX.  
ACCC's future steps 
As noted above, the ACCC invites submissions from market participants on each of the 
issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that may be relevant to 
the ACCC's assessment of this matter. Submissions should be emailed to 
mergers@accc.gov.au by no later than 21 November 2024. 
The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions invited by this 
Statement of Issues. 


 
 
12 
The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 6 February 2025. However, the 
anticipated timeline may change in line with the Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines. 
A Public Competition Assessment explaining the ACCC's final view may be published 
following the ACCC's public announcement. 
