 
Page 1 of 19 
  
 
Statement of Issues 
1 March 2018 
Saputo Dairy Australia – proposed acquisition of Murray 
Goulburn’s operating assets  
Purpose 
1. 
Saputo Dairy Australia Pty Ltd (Saputo) proposes to acquire most of the 
operating assets and liabilities of Murray Goulburn Co-operative Co. Limited 
(Murray Goulburn) (the proposed acquisition).  
2. 
This Statement of Issues: 
 
gives the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission’s 
(ACCC’s) preliminary views on competition issues arising from the 
proposed acquisition, and 
 
invites interested parties to submit comments and information to 
assist our assessment of the issues. 
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views 
3. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition 
is in section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 
prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, 
of substantially lessening competition in any market. 
4. 
The ACCC divides its preliminary views into three categories, 'issues of 
concern', 'issues that may raise concerns' and ‘issues unlikely to raise 
concerns’. For this matter there is one ‘issue of concern’ and the remaining 
issues are ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’. 
Issue of concern – Koroit  
5. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition would be likely to 
substantially lessen competition in the market for the acquisition of raw milk in 
south west Victoria and south east South Australia (together, Western 
Victoria).  


Saputo Dairy Australia – proposed acquisition of Murray Goulburn’s assets 
 
Page 2 of 19 
6. 
Saputo (at Allansford) and Murray Goulburn (at Koroit) own the two largest 
processing plants in the area. While Fonterra and some smaller players will 
remain, the ACCC considers competition for raw milk will decrease resulting in 
lower farmgate prices for raw milk offered to farmers.  
7. 
The ACCC does not consider that processors outside of Western Victoria 
provide sufficient competitive constraints. Data provided to the ACCC as part of 
this investigation and the Dairy Inquiry indicate that processors outside of the 
posited market are unlikely to provide a strong constraint because of the 
expense of transporting milk long distances. 
8. 
The ACCC considers that the proposed acquisition will not substantially lessen 
competition for the acquisition of raw milk in any other region. The ACCC’s 
concerns only arise in Western Victoria from Saputo acquiring the Koroit dairy 
plant. 
Issues unlikely to raise concerns 
9. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is not likely to 
substantially lessen competition in the downstream markets for the supply of 
fresh milk, cheese, cream and butter by processors. The ACCC focussed in 
particular on bulk cream, but considers that other processors would be likely to 
constrain Saputo after the acquisition.  
Making a submission 
10. 
Interested parties should provide submissions by no later than 5pm on 13 
March 2018. Responses may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the 
title: Submission re: Saputo/Murray Goulburn - attention John Rouw/Ana 
Grujicic. If you would like to discuss the matter with ACCC officers over the 
telephone or in person, or have any questions about this Statement of Issues, 
please contact John Rouw on 03 9290 1402 or Ana Grujicic on 03 9290 1825.  
11. 
The ACCC anticipates making a final decision on 29 March 2018, however, this 
timeline can change. To keep abreast of possible changes in relation to timing 
and to find relevant documents, interested parties should visit the Mergers 
Register on the ACCC's website at www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
Confidentiality of submissions 
12. 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We 
will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) 
unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation 
or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition 
and Consumer Act 2010.  Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where possible so that you 
may have an opportunity to be heard.  Therefore, if the information provided to 
the ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our Informal 
Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 


Saputo Dairy Australia – proposed acquisition of Murray Goulburn’s assets 
 
Page 3 of 19 
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’ 
13. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well 
as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
14. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties 
(including customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to 
ascertain and consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also 
intended to provide the merger parties and other interested parties with the 
basis for making further submissions should they consider it necessary. 
The ACCC’s current Dairy Inquiry  
15. 
Separate to this review of Saputo’s proposed acquisition, the ACCC is also 
undertaking a broader assessment of the competitiveness, trading practices, 
and transparency of the Australian dairy industry. An interim report was 
published on 30 November 2017 and the ACCC must submit its final report to 
the Treasurer by 30 April 2018. 
16. 
The Dairy Inquiry and this review are separate processes and require different 
assessments.  However, the ACCC has had regard to Dairy Inquiry findings in 
assessing Saputo’s proposed acquisition. 
17. 
If you wish to find out further information about the Dairy Inquiry, please see 
https://www.accc.gov.au/about-us/information-for/agriculture/dairy-inquiry. 
Timeline 
Date 
Event 
17 November 2017 
ACCC commenced review of the proposed 
acquisition 
1 March 2018 
ACCC published a Statement of Issues outlining 
preliminary competition concerns 
13 March 2018 
Closing date for submissions relating to Statement of 
Issues 
29 March 2018 
Proposed date for announcement of ACCC’s findings  
 
The parties 
Murray Goulburn  
18. 
Murray Goulburn is an Australian dairy co-operative with farmer shareholders 
plus external investors (through the ASX listed MG Unit Trust). 


Saputo Dairy Australia – proposed acquisition of Murray Goulburn’s assets 
 
Page 4 of 19 
19. 
Prior to May 2017, Murray Goulburn operated 11 processing sites located 
across New South Wales (1), Victoria (7), Tasmania (2) and Qingdao in China 
(1). In May 2017, Murray Goulburn announced the closure of three processing 
sites, following reduced milk intake across the business. These sites were 
Edith Creek in Tasmania and Rochester and Kiewa in Victoria. Murray 
Goulburn has since sold the Edith Creek site to Dutch Mill (Australia) Pty Ltd. It 
has closed the Rochester site and postponed the closure of Kiewa.  
20. 
Murray Goulburn owns the Devondale and Liddells brands and produces a full 
range of dairy products, including fresh milk, Ultra Heat Treated (UHT) milk, 
milk powder, cheese, cream and butter.  
21. 
Murray Goulburn also has trading stores selling farm supplies and services, 
and operates a milk broking business. 
Saputo 
22. 
Saputo is a wholly owned subsidiary of Saputo Inc.  
23. 
A Canadian based company, Saputo Inc. is one of the top 10 dairy processors 
in the world, operating 50 manufacturing facilities across Canada (22), the 
United States (24), Argentina (2) and Australia (2).  
24. 
Saputo’s Australian operations are conducted through Warrnambool Cheese 
and Butter Factory Company Holdings Limited (WCB).  
25. 
Saputo has a dairy processing plant at Allansford, Victoria and packaging 
plants in Allansford and Mil Lel, in south east South Australia. Saputo produces 
a full range of dairy products. Its Australian brands include Coon, Cracker 
Barrel and Mil Lel cheeses and Great Ocean Road milk and cheese. 
Other industry participants 
Farmer-suppliers  
26. 
Farmer-suppliers (dairy farmers) produce raw milk and supply it to dairy 
processors or milk brokers. This raw milk is manufactured to create different 
dairy products.  
Dairy processors  
27. 
Dairy processors acquire raw milk from dairy farmers and process the milk to 
manufacture dairy products. There are a number of dairy processors that 
operate in Western Victoria, where Saputo currently operates through WCB.  
 
Fonterra Australia Pty Ltd (Fonterra Australia) is a subsidiary of 
New Zealand based Fonterra Co-operative Group Limited. Fonterra 
Australia operates eight processing facilities in New South Wales, Victoria 
and Tasmania, collecting around 1.6 billion litres of milk annually1. It has 
two processing facilities in Western Victoria, at Cobden and Dennington.  
                                                 
 
1 ACCC Dairy Inquiry, Interim Report, November 2017, p 44 


Saputo Dairy Australia – proposed acquisition of Murray Goulburn’s assets 
 
Page 5 of 19 
Fonterra Australia produces a full range of dairy products, servicing both 
domestic and export customers.   
 
Bega Cheese Limited (Bega) is an ASX listed company with processing 
facilitates located in Melbourne and in Strathmerton and Tatura in northern 
Victoria and Bega in New South Wales. Bega collects around 650 million 
litres of milk per year2. The company primarily supplies cheese and 
bionutrients (for the health and nutrition markets).  
 
Union Dairy Company (UDC) is a new entrant that commenced operating 
in August 2017. UDC is a joint venture between The Midfield Group (a 
meat processing company) and the Louis Dreyfus Company. It has a 
processing plant based in Penola, south east South Australia. UDC 
manufactures milk powders, anhydrous milk fat and cream, servicing both 
domestic and export markets.  
 
Other participants in the region include, Beston Global Food Company 
Limited (Beston) and Bulla Dairy Foods (Bulla). Beston has recently 
expanded its operations and is now collecting raw milk from the market in 
addition to raw milk generated from its own farms. Bulla produces a range 
of cream-based products and in 2014 it opened a milk separation plant in 
order to process its own cream from raw milk. 
Brokers  
28. 
In addition to acquiring milk from dairy farmers, processors can also acquire 
milk from brokers. Milk brokers can also sell raw milk directly to food 
manufacturers. A number of milk brokers are active in the Western Victoria milk 
region, including Australian Dairy Farmers Corporation (ADFC) and Australian 
Consolidated Milk (ACM). 
Other processors with plants in Victoria 
29. 
There are a number of further dairy processors in Victoria, ranging from 
speciality cheese manufacturers to multinational processors. These include: 
 
Burra Foods Australia (Burra), which has a plant in southwest Gippsland 
and investors that include Chinese dairy processor Mengniu. 
 
Freedom Foods, which has plant at Shepparton in northern Victoria, 
producing UHT milk. 
 
Lion Dairy and Drinks Pty Ltd (Lion) forms part of the Lion Group, a food 
and beverage company based in Australia and New Zealand. Lion collects 
around one billion litres of milk annually3. Lion produces a range of dairy 
products including fresh milk, flavoured milk, UHT milk, cheese, yogurt and 
cream. 
 
Parmalat Australia Limited (Parmalat), whose ultimate majority shareholder 
is the Lactalis Group, a family-owned multinational company based in 
                                                 
 
2 ACCC Dairy Inquiry, Interim Report, November 2017, p 45 
3 ACCC Dairy Inquiry, Interim Report, November 2017, p 45 


Saputo Dairy Australia – proposed acquisition of Murray Goulburn’s assets 
 
Page 6 of 19 
France. Parmalat collects around 1 billion litres of raw milk4 and owns a 
number of facilities throughout Australia, including in Echuca, Bendigo 
North, Longwarry and Rowville in Victoria, and Clarence Gardens in 
Adelaide.   
Industry background 
30. 
The past two years have been a difficult period for the dairy industry in 
Australia, particularly for farmers affected by Murray Goulburn and Fonterra’s 
Farmgate Milk Price (FMP) step downs in 2016. 
31. 
In response, during the first half of FY2016 – 17 a significant number of 
farmers switched away from supplying Murray Goulburn, reducing Murray 
Goulburn’s total milk intake and therefore its revenues. 
32. 
Murray Goulburn’s financial situation affected its ability to pay a competitive 
FMP and, from about April 2016 to about October 2017, Murray Goulburn’s 
price was below that of many of its competitors. Farmers ceased supplying 
Murray Goulburn in large numbers. Some Murray Goulburn farmers exited the 
industry; many moved processors.  
33. 
Farmers switching processors often do so in July and August, after they 
receive final payments for the previous financial year and season. Murray 
Goulburn published an opening FMP for FY2017-18 of $4.70 per kilogram of 
milk solids (kgms), while its competitors opened with effective prices (including 
bonuses) ranging from $5.15 to $5.90/kgms. Murray Goulburn revised its 
opening price to $5.20/kgms. Thirty per cent5 of farmers withdrew their supply 
from Murray Goulburn in July and August of 2017. 
34. 
Murray Goulburn’s largest plant, Koroit, is currently running at well below 
optimal capacity, which has led to Murray Goulburn announcing redundancies 
at this location. Such plants have high fixed costs and exhibit significant 
economies of scale, exacerbating Murray Goulburn’s challenges.  
35. 
At the time of the second wave of farmer departures in mid to late 2017, 
Murray Goulburn announced a strategic review of its business, which led to a 
number of proposals from different entities to acquire Murray Goulburn or its 
assets.  
36. 
The ACCC recognises the impact that these events have had on Murray 
Goulburn’s dairy farmers and shareholders, and appreciates their desire for 
stability. However, the ACCC is concerned about the longer term impact on 
competition as a result of the proposed acquisition and the likelihood that this 
could result in reduced FMPs, worse contractual terms or reduced non-price 
offers to farmers in Western Victoria.  
                                                 
 
4 ACCC Dairy Inquiry, Interim Report, November 2017, p 45 
5 http://www.mgc.com.au/media/51271/devondaler-february-2018.pdf 


Saputo Dairy Australia – proposed acquisition of Murray Goulburn’s assets 
 
Page 7 of 19 
The proposed acquisition 
37. 
Saputo proposes to acquire all of Murray Goulburn’s assets related to dairy 
processing, manufacturing, distribution and sale, including land, equipment, 
inventory, brands, leases and contractual arrangements with customers and 
suppliers, including dairy farmers. 
38. 
The acquisition includes Murray Goulburn’s processing facilities in: 
 
Cobram, Kiewa, Koroit, Laverton North, Leongatha, Maffra and 
Rochester in Victoria; 
 
Erskine Park in New South Wales; and 
 
Smithton in Tasmania. 
39. 
The proposed acquisition includes Murray Goulburn Trading Pty Ltd (MG 
Trading), which operates the trading stores business. Murray Goulburn may 
however elect to sell MG Trading separately to the broader sale to Saputo, 
and, if so, it will be excluded from the proposed acquisition. 
40. 
Murray Goulburn is to retain all assets and liabilities associated with the MG 
Unit Trust, and any liabilities associated with regulatory proceedings and unit 
holder class action (and any similar such actions). Murray Goulburn will retain 
part of the proceeds from the proposed transaction until the conclusion of these 
matters.  
41. 
As part of the transaction agreement, Saputo has agreed to offer a number of 
commitments for the benefit of existing Murray Goulburn farmer-suppliers. 
These commitments include: 
 
Collection: Saputo has agreed to collect milk from all suppliers who 
are supplying Murray Goulburn at closing, for a period of five years 
from the FY19 season on terms that are no less favourable than 
Murray Goulburn’s existing collection terms. Following this period, 
Saputo will continue to collect milk on reasonable terms, allowing 
Saputo to charge a reasonable cost-recovery amount for transport, 
handling and storage costs and  
 
Future FMP commitment: For a minimum of five years from the FY19 
season, Saputo will pay existing Murray Goulburn suppliers a market 
competitive FMP. That FMP will be not less than the greater of 
Saputo’s FMP or the average FMP of the two largest competing milk 
processors competing in the Southern Milk Region6 or NSW Milk 
Region7 (as applicable) at the relevant time. 
                                                 
 
6 The ‘Southern Milk Region’ includes the following regions: eastern South Australia and the western dairy region in 
Victoria; the Gippsland dairy region in Victoria; the Murray dairy region in central and northern Victoria and southern 
New South Wales; and Tasmania.  
7 The ‘NSW Milk Region’ includes the following regions: South Coast of NSW; Southern Central Highlands; Central 
West; Northern Tablelands; Hunter Valley; and Manning Valley.  


Saputo Dairy Australia – proposed acquisition of Murray Goulburn’s assets 
 
Page 8 of 19 
Areas of overlap 
42. 
Saputo and Murray Goulburn overlap in: 
 
the acquisition of raw milk from farmers, and 
 
the manufacture and supply of various dairy products to downstream 
customers (such as supermarkets, food manufacturers, food service 
providers and international customers). 
43. 
In relation to the acquisition of raw milk, Saputo and Murray Goulburn overlap 
in Western Victoria, where Murray Goulburn has a large processing plant at 
Koroit and Saputo has large plant nearby at Allansford. The ACCC has 
therefore focused its review on the acquisition of raw milk within this region. 
44. 
In relation to the manufacture and supply of dairy products, market inquiries 
have indicated that the two parties overlap in the manufacture of various 
products. However, concerns have only been raised regarding the manufacture 
and supply of bulk cream, cheese and butter. For all other dairy products it 
appears that there will be sufficient alternative options remaining after the 
acquisition and no concerns have been raised by market participants. 
45. 
Therefore, in relation to downstream markets, this Statement of Issues only 
addresses issues relating to the supply of bulk cream, butter and cheese. 
Future with and without the acquisition  
46. 
Section 50 of the Act prohibits mergers or acquisitions that would have the 
effect or be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a 
market. In assessing a proposed acquisition pursuant to section 50 of the Act, 
the ACCC considers the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future 
competitive environment post-acquisition if the acquisition proceeds (the “with” 
position) to the likely future competitive environment if the acquisition does not 
proceed (the “without” position) to determine whether the proposed acquisition 
is likely to substantially lessen competition in any relevant market. 
47. 
Based on the information currently available, the ACCC considers that if the 
proposed acquisition does not proceed, Murray Goulburn’s assets would 
remain in the market, most likely through a sale to an alternative purchaser.  
48. 
As Murray Goulburn stated at its Annual General Meeting on 27 October 2017, 
after announcing a strategic review of its business, it received various 
‘unsolicited in bound proposals…[ranging] from discrete asset sales, to equity 
injections to whole of business transactions’. Media reports around the time 
reported that 20 parties had submitted expressions of interest for Murray 
Goulburn.8  
49. 
Murray Goulburn recently released its half-year results, reporting a half-year 
loss of $27.5 million (compared with a half-year loss a year earlier of $31.9 
million).  Murray Goulburn declared in its accounts that, subject to any material 
                                                 
 
8 ‘Bell rings for round two in Murray Goulburn contest’, The Australian, Business News, 12 October 2017. 


Saputo Dairy Australia – proposed acquisition of Murray Goulburn’s assets 
 
Page 9 of 19 
changes in circumstances, its directors continue to be of the view that the 
group would be able to pay its debts as and when they fell due, for at least a 
year.9  
50. 
Murray Goulburn said in its results that, if the proposed acquisition or an 
alternate one does not proceed, it may not be able to pay a competitive FMP 
and further losses of milk may lead to asset impairment, breach of banking 
covenants and potential withdrawal of creditors’ support. Its accounts stated 
that, in this case, the Group would need to consider selling certain assets to 
repay debt. 
51. 
While Murray Goulburn continues to face financial difficulties, given the number 
of proposals received by Murray Goulburn and the value placed on Murray 
Goulburn’s assets by potential purchasers, the ACCC considers it likely that 
Murray Goulburn’s assets, either in their entirety or separately, will remain in 
the market and be acquired by an alternative purchaser(s) if the proposed 
acquisition by Saputo does not proceed. 
52. 
The ACCC considers that any acquirer (whether Saputo or another acquirer) of 
Murray Goulburn’s assets, including the Koroit plant, would have a strong 
incentive to return them to efficient operation, competing to attract raw milk 
volume to do so.   
Previous ACCC merger decisions 
53. 
On 22 February 2010, the ACCC commenced a public review of 
Murray Goulburn’s proposed acquisition of WCB. The ACCC published a 
Statement of Issues outlining preliminary competition concerns in relation to 
the acquisition of raw milk from farmers, bulk supply of raw milk to dairy 
product manufactures and supply of bulk cream. On 2 June 2010, Murray 
Goulburn announced that it did not intend to proceed with the proposed 
acquisition and withdrew its application for ACCC merger clearance.  
54. 
On 29 November 2013, Murray Goulburn applied to the Australian Competition 
Tribunal for merger authorisation to acquire WCB. On 23 January 2014, Murray 
Goulburn withdrew its application. WCB was subsequently acquired by Saputo.  
Market inquiries 
55. 
The ACCC sought comment from a wide range of market participants on 
Saputo’s proposed acquisition of Murray Goulburn’s assets. In particular, we 
communicated directly to more than 500 potentially affected farmers, by email 
or post, and received a large number of responses. 
56. 
The ACCC has taken into account both competition concerns from some 
farmers and the feedback from other farmers that they felt they had options for 
whom they could supply; and that many dairy farmers want the Saputo 
transaction to proceed so they have near-term certainty.  
                                                 
 
9 Murray Goulburn Interim Financial Statements 2018 p 9 


Saputo Dairy Australia – proposed acquisition of Murray Goulburn’s assets 
 
Page 10 of 19 
Issue of concern: Acquisition of raw milk in Western 
Victoria  
57. 
Based upon its inquiries to date, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the 
proposed acquisition of the Murray Goulburn Koroit dairy processing plant is 
likely to substantially lessen competition in the market for the acquisition of raw 
milk in Western Victoria.  
58. 
The proposed acquisition represents a major structural change in the Western 
Victoria dairy region. Saputo and Murray Goulburn are each other’s closest 
competitors in the region and a combined Saputo-Murray Goulburn would 
control over two thirds of processing capacity in the region and acquire more 
than half of all the raw milk in the region. The other significant acquirer of raw 
milk in this area is Fonterra, with a number of smaller processors and acquirers 
including UDC, Beston, Bega, ADFC and ACM. 
Market definition  
59. 
The ACCC considers that the appropriate market is likely to be the market for 
raw milk acquisition in Western Victoria.  
60. 
The ACCC found that the geographic scope of raw milk markets is influenced 
by the distance it is financially viable for processors to transport milk from farm 
to factory. Whilst processors in the Dairy Inquiry have submitted that this 
distance can be up to 600km, ACCC analysis of processors’ purchase records 
during that Inquiry showed that: 
 
approximately 80 per cent of processors’ raw milk purchases come 
from farms located within 150km of the processing plant, and 
 
in excess of 95 per cent of raw milk is acquired from farms within 
300km of a processing plant.10 
61. 
In Western Victoria, a significantly higher share of raw milk is acquired by 
processors with facilities within or very near to the market (Murray Goulburn, 
Saputo, Fonterra, UDC and Bulla), compared to acquisition volumes for 
processors outside of the region (for example, Bega, Lion and Parmalat). 
62. 
Whilst processors with plants located outside of Western Victoria do acquire 
some milk from farms located in Western Victoria, the cost of transporting milk 
long distances limits their presence in the market. This additional cost is likely 
to limit the competitive constraint provided by processors located outside of 
Western Victoria. The ACCC considers that there would need to be a 
significant decrease in the price of milk (more than 10 per cent) for those 
processors to economically compete in Western Victoria. 
63. 
Further, the ACCC’s analysis of farmer switching patterns (discussed further 
below) indicates that, even during 2016 when some processors significantly 
reduced their FMPs (by as much as 15 per cent) only a very small number of 
farmers switched to processors outside of Western Victoria.    
                                                 
 
10 ACCC Dairy Inquiry, Interim Report, November 2017, p 99 


Saputo Dairy Australia – proposed acquisition of Murray Goulburn’s assets 
 
Page 11 of 19 
64. 
Accordingly, the ACCC considers that the closest competitive constraint on 
Saputo after the proposed acquisition would be processors located within 150 
to 200 km of the dairy farms which supply Allansford and Koroit processing 
plants. 
Closeness of competition between Saputo and Murray Goulburn  
65. 
The ACCC has considered data, internal company documents and other 
information to assess the closeness of competition between Saputo and 
Murray Goulburn for the acquisition of raw milk; and the likely nature and 
intensity of competition between processors in the region with and without the 
proposed acquisition.  
66. 
The ACCC considers that Saputo and Murray Goulburn are each other’s 
closest competitors (the primary competitors to each other) for the acquisition 
of raw milk from farmers in the Western Victoria region. Saputo and Murray 
Goulburn compete to acquire milk for their respective plants at Allansford and 
Koroit, which are about 30 kilometres’ drive apart from each other, near 
Warrnambool. These two plants are the largest in the region and account for a 
very large proportion of total raw milk processing capacity in Western Victoria. 
The ACCC has estimated that Saputo and Murray Goulburn combined would 
have over two thirds of the processing capacity in Western Victoria.  
67. 
Market inquiries have confirmed that the two companies target many of the 
same farmers for supply and closely monitor and react to each other’s conduct; 
and many farmers have changed from supplying one of them to supplying the 
other. 
68. 
The ACCC has analysed the switching of farmers between processors in the 
period from July 2016 to December 2017. The ACCC has considered in 
particular which processors dairy farmers switched to when leaving Murray 
Goulburn. The ACCC considers that this data shows in broad terms: 
 
Competition is closest between competing processors with plants in 
Western Victoria 
 
Murray Goulburn and Saputo are very close competitors 
 
Fonterra is a significant but smaller competitor in the region  
 
Smaller processors have also had some competitive impact in winning 
farmers, including in particular UDC during its start-up period. 
69. 
The ACCC understands that the events of 2016 were unusual in the industry 
and farmers switched away from Murray Goulburn in greater numbers than 
might be expected in the normal course of events. The Dairy Inquiry found that 
in the normal course of business, somewhere between 5 to 10 per cent of 
farmers will switch processors in any given year. The switching figures for 
Murray Goulburn were much higher than this, with reported milk volumes 
dropping by 20 to 30 per cent in both 2016 and 2017. 
70. 
However, the ACCC considers this is also an aspect of competition.  Saputo 
gave dairy farmers in Western Victoria that were supplying Murray Goulburn a 
‘relief valve’ and option to which they could turn. If Saputo were to acquire 


Saputo Dairy Australia – proposed acquisition of Murray Goulburn’s assets 
 
Page 12 of 19 
Murray Goulburn’s Koroit plant and farmers were to become dissatisfied with 
Saputo in the future, the reverse option would not be available to them. 
Competition from other processors 
71. 
The ACCC has considered the levels of competitive constraint from other 
processors. The ACCC has considered the views of dairy farmers and other 
market participants, data and internal company documents.  
72. 
The ACCC considers that, all other things being equal, dairy processors with 
plants closer to the dairy farms that supply Saputo (Allansford) and Murray 
Goulburn (Koroit) in Western Victoria are likely to place stronger competitive 
pressure on a combined Saputo-Murray Goulburn in the region than those 
further away. This is principally because a processor’s transport costs increase 
with distance: it is more expensive for them to acquire milk from further away.  
73. 
The ACCC first looked at those processors within about 200 kilometres of most 
of the dairy farmers that supply Saputo Allansford and Murray Goulburn Koroit. 
The four largest are: 
 
Fonterra (at Cobden and Dennington) 
 
Bega (at Coburg) 
 
Bulla (at Colac), and  
 
UDC (at Penola). 
74. 
The production capacity figures for these plants are however significantly lower 
compared to an intake capacity for Murray Goulburn Koroit of more than a 
billion litres and an intake capacity for Saputo Allansford of about a billion litres. 
In percentage terms, the Allansford and Koroit plants combined would 
represent over two thirds of the intake capacity in the Western Victoria region. 
75. 
The ACCC considers that Fonterra has the ability to place a level of 
competitive pressure on a combined Saputo-Murray Goulburn operation in the 
Western Victoria region, as it competes to acquire milk for its Cobden and 
Dennington plants. However, the ACCC notes that when Murray Goulburn 
decreased its FMP in 2016, Fonterra followed soon after. 
76. 
The ACCC understands that Bega has acquired milk in the Western Victorian 
region for a number of years, but its share of volumes within 200 and 400 
kilometres of the Murray Goulburn Koroit plant are still small compared with 
Saputo and Fonterra. 
77. 
The ACCC understands that Australian Dairy Farmers Corporation acquires 
milk to be on-supplied to processors including Bulla, which has a plant at 
Colac. However, as with Bega, the share of raw milk that ADFC-Bulla acquires 
in the Western Victoria region remains small. 
78. 
The ACCC has carefully considered the significance of UDC. This is a joint 
venture between the Warrnambool-based Midfield meat processing group, 
which has a long history in Western Victoria, and global commodities trader 
Louis Dreyfus. Since commencing operations in mid-2017, UDC has taken on 


Saputo Dairy Australia – proposed acquisition of Murray Goulburn’s assets 
 
Page 13 of 19 
a significant volume of raw milk. UDC also has planning approval for a dairy 
processing site in Warrnambool.11 
79. 
The ACCC has considered UDC’s processing capacity and likelihood of 
expansion in its assessment of whether it will still be a strong competitor for 
dairy farmers in Western Victoria. 
80. 
Other acquirers of milk in the Western Region that farmers have cited as 
options to supply include:  
 
broker ACM  
 
processor Camperdown Dairy, which has a small plant at 
Camperdown; and  
 
Beston Global Food Company, which has moved from self-supply of 
raw milk to acquiring from other dairy farmers, for its plants in South 
Australia, about 500 kilometres from Warrnambool. 
81. 
The ACCC is considering the competitive constraint all the raw milk acquirers 
mentioned above provide in totality.  
82. 
The ACCC is also considering the extent to which more distant processing 
facilities may competitively constrain a combined Saputo-Murray Goulburn from 
seeking to lower FMPs in Western Victoria. This includes plants in areas such 
as Bendigo, the Shepparton region and the south-eastern suburbs of 
Melbourne. 
83. 
The ACCC considers that processors much beyond 200 kilometres from 
farmers in the Western Victoria region are generally not a close competitive 
constraint on Saputo at Allansford and Murray Goulburn at Koroit. The ACCC 
considers that raw milk prices would need to fall greatly before such distant 
processors would find it commercially attractive to seek such distant raw milk 
supply in large quantities. 
84. 
Parmalat and Lion have dairy processing facilities in northern and central 
Victoria and the Melbourne region. However, in Victoria, Parmalat and Lion 
primarily produce ‘fresh’ dairy products such as drinking milk and yoghurt, 
which are supplied into the domestic retail market.  
85. 
This means that they require a fairly consistent supply of raw milk year-round, 
in comparison to producers of products like cheese and milk powder which can 
be stored for longer periods. Producers of fresh dairy products therefore tend 
to place a lower value on supply from farms with a strong seasonal milk supply 
pattern.12 Therefore, many dairy farmers in Western Victoria whose milk supply 
patterns are more seasonal may not be able to profitably supply Parmalat or 
Lion without significant investment to change their calving patterns (which the 
ACCC understands may take two to three years). 
                                                 
 
11 http://www.standard.net.au/story/4846301/first-product-rolls-off-line/ 
12 Meaning they produce more milk during spring than at other times of the year. 


Saputo Dairy Australia – proposed acquisition of Murray Goulburn’s assets 
 
Page 14 of 19 
86. 
Further, the ACCC understands that companies which mainly supply ‘fresh’ 
products have relatively fixed demand for raw milk (due to the stable nature of 
domestic consumption) and may be unlikely to respond to decreased FMPs by 
significantly increasing the volumes of raw milk they acquire.  
Relevance of pricing policies  
87. 
The ACCC understands that historically dairy processors in Australia, including 
Saputo, Murray Goulburn and Fonterra, have applied a single pricing structure 
and published a single headline farm gate milk price for the area known as the 
‘Southern Milk Region’, which encompasses Victoria, eastern South Australia, 
parts of southern NSW and Tasmania. The headline price announced by each 
processor reflects the price paid to a farm with designated production 
characteristics, after applying the pricing structure of the particular processor. 
These pricing structures vary between processors and result in different prices 
according to a farm’s production characteristics (e.g. some pricing structures 
may favour seasonal milk production over flat production, or vice versa).  
88. 
Processors have indicated that this policy of having a single pricing structure 
for the Southern Milk Region is driven by farmer preference and that having 
different price offers within a state such as Victoria would have a significant 
negative impact on their reputation with dairy farmers.  
89. 
The ACCC has considered whether the practice of having a single Southern 
Milk Region pricing structure would restrict the ability of a combined Saputo-
Murray Goulburn to lower farm gate prices in the Western Victoria market 
identified above, even if it did face limited competition for raw milk in that 
particular region.  
90. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that such uniform pricing may not protect 
farmers in Western Victoria from lower farm gate prices resulting from the 
proposed acquisition. The ACCC is aware that processors are able to tailor 
their offer to farmers through various means, to target the retention or 
recruitment of farmers with particular characteristics or from a particular 
location. Examples of such deviation from uniform policies include offers of 
cheap finance, alterations to terms and conditions, offers of no disadvantage 
contracts, variations to payment timing and sign on bonuses. The ACCC has 
seen numerous instances of processors making additional offers over and 
above the Southern Milk Region wide price offers which have a tangible 
financial impact on farmers. 
91. 
The ACCC also notes that this historical pricing pattern may have been driven 
largely by Murray Goulburn and its co-operative structure; and other 
processors may have matched Murray Goulburn’s approach due to its size. 
With the loss of Murray Goulburn as a result of the proposed acquisition, this 
may remove the drive for processors in the market to continue this pricing 
practice. The ACCC understands the industry view that farmers would not 
accept such a change in policy. However, pressure from farmers may not be 
sufficient to ensure that uniform pricing remains, particularly if farmers do not 
have sufficient processor options available to them. 


Saputo Dairy Australia – proposed acquisition of Murray Goulburn’s assets 
 
Page 15 of 19 
Likelihood of entry or expansion  
92. 
The ACCC has considered whether the threat of new entry and/or capacity 
expansion by existing competitors would be likely to constrain a combined 
Saputo-Murray Goulburn from exercising market power. 
93. 
Market inquiries have indicated there may be significant barriers to large-scale 
new entry into milk processing. Smaller scale entry and expansion by existing 
processors may be more feasible. The ACCC is concerned that small scale 
entry may not provide, on its own, significant competitive constraint on Saputo 
if the acquisition of Koroit were to proceed. Principally, the ACCC is concerned 
that smaller scale processors may not have the required processing capacity to 
attract enough raw milk to defeat any attempt at a reduction in FMP by Saputo-
Murray Goulburn. The ACCC considers key barriers to entry and expansion 
include: 
 
The costs of establishing milk processing infrastructure, equipment 
and logistics capabilities are high and would be mostly sunk. Further, 
fluctuations in commodity and exchange markets can increase the 
risk and costs of entry.  
 
Incumbent processors enjoy an established presence in the industry, 
which can assist in retaining or attracting farmer-suppliers with a 
strong value offer and certainty of pricing and providing them with 
incentives (such as loyalty payments) to deter them from switching. 
Smaller processors or new entrants may have difficulties matching or 
countering these incentives.  
 
Economies of scale in production are important. A rival processor 
may be at a cost disadvantage if it does not have the scale of the 
major processors in the region.  
94. 
There have been some recent examples of new entry (by UDC) and expansion 
plans announced by a number of competitors (including Fonterra, ACM, 
Freedom Foods, Beston Foods and Burra Foods). On the other hand, there are 
a number of examples of recent exit or failed entry in the industry, including 
National Dairy Products, United Dairy Power, Linear Capital/Aerem and 
Camperdown Dairy International (as distinct from Camperdown Dairy, which is 
a separate company). 
95. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that new entry or expansion may not be 
sufficiently timely or on a large enough scale to pose a sufficient competitive 
constraint.  
Impact of commitments offered by Saputo to farmers  
96. 
The ACCC acknowledges that Saputo has made several commitments to 
current Murray Goulburn suppliers, including a commitment for five years to 
pay a FMP that is the greater of Saputo’s FMP or the average FMP of the two 
largest competing milk processors in the Southern Milk Region (and a similar 
commitment for NSW). 
97. 
The ACCC does not consider that the commitments offered by Saputo address 
the competition concerns arising from the proposed acquisition. The proposed 


Saputo Dairy Australia – proposed acquisition of Murray Goulburn’s assets 
 
Page 16 of 19 
acquisition of Koroit would result in a structural change in the Western Victorian 
market, with potential long term impacts on prices, contract terms and service 
levels. The Saputo commitments would only apply to some suppliers, in 
relation to certain aspects of the supply relationship, for a period of five years. 
ACCC’s preliminary views  
98. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition of Koroit by Saputo is 
likely to result in a substantial lessening of competition in the market for the 
acquisition of raw milk in Western Victoria, leading to a reduced FMP paid to 
farmers and/or a worsening of other supply terms. 
99. 
The ACCC understands that Fonterra will remain as a major competitor in the 
market, along with a number of smaller processors. However, the ACCC is 
concerned that this group of competitors will not be enough to competitively 
constrain a combined Saputo-Murray Goulburn.  
100. 
The ACCC is concerned that: 
 
Saputo and Murray Goulburn are each other’s closest competitors in the 
Western Victoria region. 
 
Fonterra might follow lower FMPs offered by a combined Saputo-Murray 
Goulburn. 
 
Large processors tend to predominantly focus on the actions of other large 
processors when making pricing decisions, rather than smaller competitors, 
which may limit the competitive constraint of smaller processors in Western 
Victoria. 
 
Although there are other large processors outside the Western Victoria 
region, the cost of transporting large volumes of milk long distances is likely 
to significantly restrict any competitive constraint that these processors will 
place on the combined Saputo-Murray Goulburn. In addition, many of those 
large processors primarily produce fresh dairy products for domestic 
supply. This means that their level of demand for raw milk is relatively 
stable so they are less likely to increase their acquisition volumes in 
response to lower FMPs. It also means that they target farmers with flat 
milk production whereas most farmers in Western Victoria have more 
seasonal production. 
 
New entrants to the market have been successful in gaining some market 
share. However, the ACCC is concerned that new entry of the scale 
required to competitively constrain a combined Saputo-Murray Goulburn is 
unlikely. 
 
Uniform pricing policies and Saputo’s five year price commitment may not 
remedy any competition concerns, particularly in the medium to long term.  
101. 
The ACCC acknowledges that, if Saputo acquires Murray Goulburn, it will most 
likely seek to increase the amount of raw milk processed at Koroit from current 
levels, and that this may increase competition in Western Victoria in the short 
term, compared to the current situation where Koroit is being underutilised. 
However, the ACCC must consider how competition in the future with the 


Saputo Dairy Australia – proposed acquisition of Murray Goulburn’s assets 
 
Page 17 of 19 
proposed acquisition compares to competition in the future without the 
proposed acquisition. In the future without the proposed acquisition, the ACCC 
considers it is likely that another acquirer of Koroit would compete strongly with 
Saputo and Fonterra, leading to higher FMPs than in the future with the 
proposed acquisition. 
Issues unlikely to raise concerns: Manufacture and supply 
of bulk cream, bulk cheese and bulk butter 
102. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to 
result in a substantial lessening of competition in the supply of any downstream 
dairy products. The ACCC has focussed on: 
 
the market for the manufacture and supply of bulk cream in Victoria 
and South Australia;  
 
the national market for the manufacture and supply of bulk butter; and 
 
the national market for the manufacture and supply of bulk cheese.  
Bulk cream 
103. 
The ACCC considers there is likely to be a market for bulk cream in Victoria 
and South Australia because fresh bulk cream cannot be economically 
transported long distances.  
104. 
For some bulk cream customers (typically food manufacturers), depending on 
the product they manufacture, it may be possible to substitute butter or 
anhydrous milk fat (AMF) (both of which can be imported) for cream. However, 
this is not possible or desirable with all products (for example, when 
manufacturing cream cheese). Substituting frozen cream for fresh cream may 
be another option for some food manufacturers. However the ACCC 
understands that frozen cream is not commonly used in Australia. 
105. 
Market inquiries indicate the availability of bulk cream is subject to the product 
mix and markets (including domestic and export) that each dairy processor 
chooses to pursue, and the volume of raw milk a processor is acquiring. 
106. 
Market inquiries suggest that consumer preferences have shifted away from 
low fat products towards full cream dairy products. This has resulted in less 
bulk cream being available in the market. In addition, Murray Goulburn, which 
has traditionally been a major supplier of bulk cream, has seen a significant 
decline in raw milk volumes in the past 18 months, which has affected its 
supply of bulk cream. This milk volume has been diverted to other processors 
who may focus on a different product mix, which produces less cream as a by-
product. Some market participants have raised concerns however that the 
proposed acquisition may lead to further reduced availability of bulk cream and 
higher prices. 
107. 
Market participants have indicated that Fonterra, Murray Goulburn and Saputo 
are the three main sources of bulk cream in Victoria and South Australia. This 
is based on the large amounts of milk they acquire, their plant sizes and their 


Saputo Dairy Australia – proposed acquisition of Murray Goulburn’s assets 
 
Page 18 of 19 
product lines (the most common source of bulk cream is as a by-product of 
skim milk powder production and production of lower-fat products in general).  
108. 
Burra Foods, Freedom Foods, UDC, Parmalat and Lion have been identified as 
potential alternate sources of bulk cream. Whether they would supply bulk 
cream is subject to the commercial decisions they make on their product mix 
and the relative returns they can obtain for them. While a number of processors 
have capacity to produce bulk cream, many choose to use their cream for their 
own internal purposes (such as to manufacture retail products which have 
cream as an input). Processors will sell bulk cream to brokers, food 
manufactures and other dairy processors when they have surplus cream 
available.  
109. 
The ACCC understands that processors could increase their cream production 
or commence supplying bulk cream relatively quickly, if the commercial returns 
justified it. Given cream is a by-product of some other production processes, 
existing dairy processors may not be required to make a significant investment 
in new or different production lines in order to produce cream.  
110. 
A small number of bulk cream customers may also have some countervailing 
power to bypass dairy processors and invest in processing facilities to acquire 
raw milk (either directly from farmers or through brokers) to produce their own 
cream.  
111. 
Following the proposed acquisition, the combined Saputo-Murray Goulburn 
would be the largest supplier of bulk cream in the market. The proposed 
acquisition is likely to result in some lessening of competition. However, the 
ACCC understands that: 
 
dairy processors with processing plants in the market could 
commence supplying bulk cream relatively quickly, if the commercial 
returns justified it  
 
there are smaller processors that supply or have historically supplied 
bulk cream 
 
Fonterra is an alternative source of bulk cream, given its plant 
capacity but subject to its commercial decisions on its product mix 
and comparative returns, and 
 
there are substitutes for bulk cream available to some food 
manufacturers.  
112. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is therefore that the proposed acquisition is not 
likely to substantially lessen competition for the supply of bulk cream.  
Bulk butter and cheese 
113. 
The ACCC considers there are likely to be national markets for both bulk butter 
and bulk cheese because there is significant interstate trade in, and imports 
and exports of, these products.  
114. 
Market inquiries indicate that prices for bulk butter are currently high and there 
is a shortage of domestic supply, reflecting global trends. Some market 


Saputo Dairy Australia – proposed acquisition of Murray Goulburn’s assets 
 
Page 19 of 19 
participants have expressed a preference for sourcing Australian made bulk 
butter and bulk cheese because of downstream customer demand. They note 
that they have been impacted by the recent scarcity of these products in the 
domestic market, and have had to turn to imports, which has impacted their 
business models.  
115. 
While Murray Goulburn and Saputo have competed to supply bulk butter and 
bulk cheese, actual or potential competition from imports of these products is 
likely to constrain the prices which Australian based dairy processors charge. 
Imports for butter and cheese have been increasing and have already taken 
significant shares of bulk butter and bulk cheese markets.   
116. 
The ACCC also notes that (similar to the situation with bulk cream): 
 
Bega, Lion, Parmalat, Beston and perhaps smaller cheese 
manufacturers across Australia could expand their supply of, or enter 
into supplying, bulk butter and bulk cheese domestically, if the 
commercial returns justified it, and 
 
Fonterra is a significant potential source of bulk butter and bulk 
cheese in the market, given its size but subject to its commercial 
decisions on its product mix and comparative returns.  
117. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is not likely to 
substantially lessen competition for the supply of either bulk butter or bulk 
cheese given the availability of imports and other mitigating factors described 
above.  
Other downstream dairy products 
118. 
Market inquiries did not suggest that there are likely to be competition impacts 
in relation to other downstream dairy products, such as fresh milk, due to the 
number of competitors and the countervailing power of the buyers, particularly 
supermarket chains.  
ACCC's future steps 
119. 
As noted above, the ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants 
on each of the issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other 
issue that may be relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. 
Submissions are to be received by the ACCC no later than 13 March 2018 and 
should be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au. 
120. 
The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
121. 
The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 29 March 2018. 
However the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose 
of explaining the ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's 
public announcement to explain its final view. 
