 
Page 1 of 19 
 
Public Competition Assessment 
17 May 2018 
Saputo Dairy Australia – proposed acquisition of Murray 
Goulburn’s operating assets  
 
The ACCC’s decision 
1. 
On 4 April 2018, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) 
announced its decision not to oppose the proposed acquisition by Saputo Dairy 
Australia Pty Ltd (Saputo) of the operating assets of Murray Goulburn Co-
operative Co. Limited (Murray Goulburn) (the proposed acquisition), subject 
to a court enforceable undertaking. The undertaking requires Saputo to divest 
the Koroit dairy processing plant to a purchaser to be approved by the ACCC. 
The Koroit plant is close to Saputo’s plant at Allansford. 
2. 
The ACCC considered that the proposed acquisition, in conjunction with the 
undertaking, would not contravene section 50 of the Competition and Consumer 
Act 2010 (the Act).  
3. 
Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to have 
the effect, of substantially lessening competition in any market. 
4. 
The ACCC considered the competitive effects of the proposed acquisition in the 
following markets:  
 
the market for the acquisition of raw milk in south-west Victoria and south-
east South Australia (together, Western Victoria) 
 
the market for the manufacture and supply of bulk cream in Victoria and 
South Australia 
 
the national market for the manufacture and supply of bulk butter, and 
 
the national market for the manufacture and supply of bulk cheese. 
5. 
The ACCC considered that the divestiture of the Koroit dairy processing plant 
would address the substantial lessening of competition that would likely 
otherwise have occurred in the acquisition of raw milk in Western Victoria.  


 
 
Page 2 of 19 
6. 
Please note that this and other public competition assessments are subject to 
the following qualifications: 
 
the ACCC considers each transaction on a case-by-case basis and so the 
analysis and decision outlined in one assessment will not necessarily 
reflect the ACCC’s view of another transaction, even where that other 
transaction may involve the same or a related market, and 
 
as public competition assessments are brief and do not refer to confidential 
information provided by the parties or other market participants, they do 
not set out all of the issues and information considered by the ACCC, nor 
all of the analysis and reasons of the ACCC.  
The parties and the transaction 
The acquirer: Saputo  
7. 
Saputo is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Saputo Inc., which is a Canadian based 
company. 
8. 
Saputo Inc. is one of the top 10 dairy processors in the world, operating 50 
manufacturing facilities across Canada, the United States, Argentina and 
Australia.  
9. 
Saputo’s Australian operations are conducted through Warrnambool Cheese and 
Butter Factory Company Holdings Limited (WCB).  
10. Saputo through WCB has a dairy processing plant at Allansford in Western 
Victoria. Allansford is close to Murray Goulburn’s Koroit plant. Saputo also has 
packaging plants in Allansford and Mil Lel, in south east South Australia. Saputo 
produces a wide range of dairy products. Its Australian brands include Coon, 
Cracker Barrel and Mil Lel cheeses and Great Ocean Road milk and cheese.  
The target: Murray Goulburn 
11. Murray Goulburn is an Australian dairy co-operative with farmer shareholders 
plus external investors (through the ASX listed MG Unit Trust).  
12. Prior to May 2017, Murray Goulburn operated 11 processing sites located across 
New South Wales (1), Victoria (7), Tasmania (2) and Qingdao in China (1). In 
May 2017, Murray Goulburn announced the closure of three processing sites, 
following reduced milk intake across the business. These sites were Edith Creek 
in Tasmania and Rochester and Kiewa in Victoria. Murray Goulburn 
subsequently sold the Edith Creek site to Dutch Mill (Australia) Pty Ltd. It closed 
the Rochester plant and postponed the closure of Kiewa. 
13. Murray Goulburn owns the Devondale and Liddells brands and produces a wide 
range of dairy products, including fresh milk, ultra-heat treated (UHT) milk, milk 
powder, cheese, cream and butter.  
14. Murray Goulburn has recently faced financial difficulties. These are outlined 
below under ‘Recent events in the dairy industry’ and ‘Future with and without 
the acquisition’.  


 
 
Page 3 of 19 
The transaction 
15. The Saputo proposal involved the acquisition of all Murray Goulburn’s operating 
assets related to dairy processing, manufacturing, distribution and sale, including 
land, equipment, inventory, brands, leases and contractual arrangements with 
customers and suppliers, including dairy farmers, and its operating liabilities.  
16. The acquisition includes Murray Goulburn’s processing facilities in: 
 
Cobram, Kiewa, Koroit, Laverton North, Leongatha, Maffra and Rochester 
in Victoria 
 
Erskine Park in New South Wales, and 
 
Smithton in Tasmania. 
17. As part of the transaction, Saputo agreed that it would make several 
commitments to existing Murray Goulburn farmers.1 These commitments include:  
 
Collection: for at least five years from FY2019, Saputo must collect milk 
from active Murray Goulburn farmers (who supply milk to Murray Goulburn 
as at the date of Murray Goulburn’s 2017 Annual General Meeting and on 
completion of the proposed acquisition), on terms no less favourable than 
Murray Goulburn’s existing collection terms. Following this period, Saputo 
must use reasonable endeavours to continue to collect milk on reasonable 
terms, provided that Saputo is entitled to charge a reasonable cost-
recovery amount for transport, handling and storage costs; and 
 
Future milk price: For a minimum of five years from FY2019, Saputo must 
pay active Murray Goulburn farmers a market competitive farmgate milk 
price (FMP). That FMP will be not less than the greater of WCB’s FMP or 
the average of the final available weighted average FMPs published by the 
two largest competing milk processors in the Southern Milk Region2 or 
NSW Milk Region3 (as applicable).4  
                                                 
1 See Murray Goulburn’s Explanatory Memorandum to shareholders and unitholders for the proposed 
acquisition, p16, available at https://www.asx.com.au/asxpdf/20180314/pdf/43sdx65b05z054.pdf. 
2 The ‘Southern Milk Region’ includes the following regions: eastern South Australia and the western 
dairy region in Victoria; the Gippsland dairy region in Victoria; the Murray dairy region in central and 
northern Victoria and southern New South Wales; and Tasmania. 
3 The ‘NSW Milk Region’ includes the following regions: South Coast of NSW; Southern Central 
Highlands; Central West; Northern Tablelands; Hunter Valley; and Manning Valley. 
4 The ACCC’s informal clearance is a decision not to oppose the proposed acquisition pursuant to section 
50 of the Act.  It is not an approval or clearance of other conduct (such as the FMP commitment) that 
may fall for consideration under other provisions of Part IV of the Act. 


 
Page 4 of 19 
Review timeline 
18. The following table outlines the timeline of key events for the ACCC in this 
matter.  
Date 
Event 
17 November 2017 
 
ACCC commenced review under the Merger Process 
Guidelines. 
4 December 2017 
Closing date for submissions from interested parties. 
21 December 2017 
ACCC requested further information from Saputo. 
18 January 2018 
ACCC received further information from Saputo. 
2 February 2018 
Former provisional decision date of 15 February 2018 
delayed due to the ACCC requiring more time to consider 
data and other information. 
1 March 2018 
ACCC published a Statement of Issues outlining preliminary 
competition concerns. 
5 March 2018 
Saputo announced its proposal to offer an undertaking to the 
ACCC to divest the Koroit facility to address the ACCC's 
competition concerns. 
22 March 2018 
Closing date for submissions relating to draft section 87B 
undertaking. 
28 March 2018 
Former proposed decision date of 29 March 2018 delayed to 
allow the ACCC to consider the feedback received from 
market participants on the undertaking proposed by Saputo. 
4 April 2018 
ACCC announced it would not oppose the proposed 
acquisition, subject to a section 87B undertaking accepted by 
the ACCC. 
19. The total elapsed time from start to finish was just over four and a half months.  
The total period net of time taken by the parties to submit information or 
documents was 71 business days.  
Market inquiries 
20. The ACCC conducted market inquiries with a range of industry participants, 
including farmers, competitors, potential competitors, downstream customers, 
industry bodies and other interested parties. Submissions were sought 
throughout the review in relation to the substantive competition issues and the 
undertaking proposed by Saputo to address the ACCC’s concerns. 
Statement of Issues 
21. On 1 March 2018, the ACCC published a Statement of Issues on the proposed 
acquisition identifying a number of competition issues. In the Statement of 
Issues, the ACCC stated its preliminary view that the proposed acquisition would 
be likely to substantially lessen competition in the market for the acquisition of 
raw milk in Western Victoria, due to the overlap between Saputo’s Allansford 


 
 
Page 5 of 19 
plant and Murray Goulburn’s Koroit plant. The ACCC did not have concerns 
about other geographic areas as there were no overlapping assets or operations. 
22. The Statement of Issues noted that Saputo (at Allansford) and Murray Goulburn 
(at Koroit) own the two largest processing plants in Western Victoria and while 
Fonterra and some smaller players would continue to provide some constraint on 
a combined Saputo-Murray Goulburn, competition for the acquisition of raw milk 
in Western Victoria would likely decrease if Saputo acquired the Koroit plant. 
This decrease in competition would likely result in lower farmgate milk prices 
(FMPs), less favourable contractual terms and/or reduced non-price offers (e.g. 
financial support or sign-on bonuses) for farmers than they would otherwise 
receive. 
23. The ACCC did not consider that processors outside of Western Victoria, or the 
threat of new entry or expansion, would provide sufficient competitive constraint 
on a combined Saputo-Murray Goulburn in Western Victoria.  
24. The Statement of Issues also stated the ACCC’s preliminary view that the 
proposed acquisition was not likely to substantially lessen competition in the 
downstream markets for the supply of fresh milk, cheese, cream and butter by 
processors.  
Industry background 
 
Farmers 
25. Farmers produce raw milk and supply it to dairy processors or milk brokers. This 
raw milk is processed to create different dairy products.  
Other dairy processors 
26. Dairy processors acquire raw milk from farmers and process the milk to 
manufacture dairy products. There are a number of other dairy processors that 
operate in Western Victoria, where Saputo currently operates through WCB: 
 
Fonterra Australia Pty Ltd (Fonterra) is a subsidiary of New Zealand based 
Fonterra Co-operative Group Limited. Fonterra operates eight processing 
facilities in New South Wales, Victoria and Tasmania, collecting around 
1.6 billion litres of milk annually.5 It has two processing facilities in Western 
Victoria, at Cobden and Dennington. Fonterra produces a wide range of 
dairy products, servicing customers in Australia and overseas. 
 
Bega Cheese Limited (Bega) is an ASX-listed company with processing 
facilitates located in Melbourne and in Strathmerton and Tatura in northern 
Victoria and Bega in New South Wales. Bega collects around 650 million 
litres of milk per year.6 The company primarily supplies cheese and bio 
nutrients (for the health and nutrition markets). 
 
Union Dairy Company (UDC) is a new entrant that commenced operating 
in August 2017. UDC is a joint venture between The Midfield Group (a 
                                                 
5 ACCC Dairy Inquiry, Interim Report, November 2017, p 44.  
6 ACCC Dairy Inquiry, Interim Report, November 2017, p 45. 


 
 
Page 6 of 19 
meat processing company) and the Louis Dreyfus Company. It has a 
processing plant located in Penola, in south east South Australia. UDC 
manufactures milk powders, anhydrous milk fat and cream, and services 
both domestic and export markets. 
 
Other participants in Western Victoria include, Beston Global Food 
Company Limited (Beston) and Bulla Dairy Foods (Bulla). Beston has 
recently expanded its operations and is now collecting raw milk from the 
market in addition to raw milk generated from its own farms. Bulla 
produces a range of cream-based products and in 2014 it opened a milk 
separation plant in order to process its own cream from raw milk. 
Dairy processors located outside Western Victoria 
27. There are a number of other dairy processors in Victoria, with plants outside of 
the Western Victoria region, ranging from specialty cheese manufacturers to 
multinational processors. These include: 
 
Burra Foods Australia (Burra), which has a plant in southwest Gippsland 
and investors that include Chinese dairy processor Mengniu 
 
Freedom Foods, which has a plant at Shepparton in northern Victoria, 
producing UHT milk 
 
Lion Dairy and Drinks Pty Ltd (Lion), which is part of the Lion Group, is a 
food and beverage company based in Australia and New Zealand. Lion 
processes around one billion litres of milk annually across Australia.7 Lion 
produces a range of dairy products, including fresh milk, flavoured milk, 
UHT milk, cheese, yogurt and cream. Lion has processing plants in 
Chelsea Heights and Morwell in Victoria, and Salisbury in South Australia; 
and 
 
Parmalat Australia Limited (Parmalat), whose ultimate majority 
shareholder is the Lactalis Group, is a family-owned multinational company 
based in France. Parmalat collects around 1 billion litres of raw milk a year8 
and owns a number of facilities throughout Australia, including in Echuca, 
Bendigo North, Longwarry and Rowville in Victoria, and Clarence Gardens 
in Adelaide. 
Other dairy companies 
28. As an alternative to supplying milk directly to processors, farmers may supply 
milk to brokers or third parties that aggregate milk and on-sell it to processors or 
food manufacturers. Brokers or aggregators active in Western Victoria include 
Australian Dairy Farmers Corporation (ADFC) and Australian Consolidated Milk 
(ACM).  
                                                 
7 ACCC Dairy Inquiry, Interim Report, November 2017, p 45. 
8 ACCC Dairy Inquiry, Interim Report, November 2017, p 45. 


 
 
Page 7 of 19 
Recent events in the dairy industry 
29. The period during 2016 and 2017 presented a number of difficulties for the dairy 
industry in south-eastern Australia. Late-season reductions to the FMPs paid by 
Murray Goulburn and Fonterra in April 2016 (known as ‘step downs’) caused 
severe and unforeseen reductions in the incomes of dairy farmers. 
30. In response to the Murray Goulburn step down, a significant number of farmers 
ceased supplying Murray Goulburn. Some farmers exited the industry; many 
moved processors. This significantly reduced Murray Goulburn’s total milk intake 
in FY17.  
31. Following the end of the FY17 season, Murray Goulburn published an opening 
FMP for the FY18 season of $4.70 per kilogram of milk solids (kgms), while its 
competitors opened with effective prices (including bonuses) ranging from $5.15 
to $5.90/kgms. Murray Goulburn then revised its opening price to $5.20/kgms. 
Murray Goulburn’s milk intake dropped by 30 percent in the opening months of 
the 2017-18 season.9  
32. At the time of the ACCC’s review, Murray Goulburn’s milk intake across its 
business was significantly reduced compared to its historical operating volumes. 
Dairy processing plants tend to have high fixed costs and exhibit significant 
economies of scale, therefore the loss of raw milk had a significant impact on 
Murray Goulburn’s business.  
33. At the time of the second wave of farmer departures in mid to late 2017, Murray 
Goulburn announced a strategic review of its business, which led to a number of 
proposals from different entities to acquire Murray Goulburn or its assets.  
Areas of overlap 
34. Saputo and Murray Goulburn overlap in:  
 
the acquisition of raw milk from farmers located in Western Victoria, and  
 
the manufacture and supply of various dairy products to downstream 
customers (such as supermarkets, food manufacturers, food service 
providers and international customers).  
35. In relation to the acquisition of raw milk, Saputo and Murray Goulburn overlap in 
the acquisition of milk from farmers located in Western Victoria, where Murray 
Goulburn has a large processing plant at Koroit and Saputo has a large plant 
nearby at Allansford. The ACCC focused its review on the acquisition of raw milk 
within this region.  
36. In relation to the manufacture and supply of dairy products, market inquiries 
indicated that the two parties overlap in the manufacture of various products. 
However, market participants only raised concerns regarding the manufacture 
and supply of bulk cream, cheese and butter. For all other dairy products, it 
                                                 
9 The Devondaler, Issue No 383, available at http://www.mgc.com.au/media/51271/devondaler-february-
2018.pdf, p1. 


 
 
Page 8 of 19 
appeared that there would be sufficient alternative options remaining after the 
acquisition and no concerns were raised by market participants.  
Future with and without the acquisition 
37. Section 50 of the Act prohibits mergers or acquisitions that would have the 
effect, or be likely to have the effect, of substantially lessening competition in a 
market. In assessing a proposed acquisition pursuant to section 50, the ACCC 
considers the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future state of 
competition if the acquisition proceeds (the “with” position) to the likely future 
state of competition if the acquisition does not proceed (the “without” position) to 
determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to substantially lessen 
competition in any relevant market. 
38. After announcing a strategic review of its business on 6 June 2017, Murray 
Goulburn received a number of proposals from parties interested in acquiring all 
or part of its business.10 Media reports around the time reported that 20 parties 
had submitted expressions of interest for Murray Goulburn.11 
39. On 7 February 2018, Murray Goulburn released its half-year results for FY17/18, 
reporting a half-year loss of $27.5 million (compared with a half-year loss a year 
earlier of $31.9 million). Murray Goulburn declared in its accounts that, subject to 
any material changes in circumstances, its directors continue to be of the view 
that the group would be able to pay its debts as and when they fell due, for at 
least a year.12 
40. Murray Goulburn said in its results that, if the proposed acquisition or an 
alternate one did not proceed, it may not be able to pay a competitive FMP and 
further losses of milk may lead to asset impairment, breach of banking 
covenants and potential withdrawal of creditors’ support. Its accounts stated that, 
in this case, it would need to consider selling certain assets to repay debt.13  
41. Taking into account the number of proposals received by Murray Goulburn, the 
ACCC considered it likely that Murray Goulburn’s assets (either in their entirety 
or separately) would remain in the market and be purchased by one or more 
alternative acquirers if the proposed acquisition by Saputo did not proceed.  
42. The ACCC considered that any alternative acquirer of some or all of Murray 
Goulburn’s assets, including the Koroit plant, would have a strong incentive to 
return them to efficient operation, competing to attract raw milk volume to do so. 
                                                 
10 Murray Goulburn, ‘2017 AGM Q&A Summary’, available at 
http://www.mgc.com.au/media/51215/AGM-2017-QA-Summary-final.pdf, p1.  
11 ‘Bell rings for round two in Murray Goulburn contest’, The Australian, Business News, 12 October 
2017. 
12 Murray Goulburn, Interim financial statements and reports, 7 February 2018, available at 
http://www.mgc.com.au/media/51269/2-mgc-half-year-financial-report-fy18-for-asx-.pdf, p 9. 
13 Murray Goulburn, Interim financial statements and reports, 7 February 2018, available at 
http://www.mgc.com.au/media/51269/2-mgc-half-year-financial-report-fy18-for-asx-.pdf, p 9. 


 
 
Page 9 of 19 
Competition analysis – Acquisition of raw milk in Western 
Victoria 
43. The ACCC considered that, without the proposed undertaking, Saputo’s 
proposed acquisition of the Murray Goulburn Koroit processing plant was likely 
to substantially lessen competition in the market for the acquisition of raw milk in 
Western Victoria. 
Market definition 
44. The ACCC considered that the key relevant market was likely to be the market 
for the acquisition of raw milk in Western Victoria. 
45. The ACCC found that the geographic scope of raw milk markets is influenced by 
the distance it is financially viable for processors to transport milk from farm to 
factory. Whilst some processors submitted that this distance can be up to 
600km, ACCC analysis of processors’ purchase records during its Dairy Inquiry14 
showed that: 
 
approximately 80 per cent of processors’ raw milk purchases come from 
farms located within 150km of the processing plant, and 
 
in excess of 95 per cent of raw milk is acquired from farms within 300km of 
the processing plant.15 
46. In Western Victoria, a significantly higher share of raw milk is acquired by 
processors with facilities within or very near to the region (Murray Goulburn, 
Saputo, Fonterra, UDC and Bulla), rather than by processors outside of the 
region (for example, Bega, Lion and Parmalat).  
47. The ACCC considered that the most substantial competitive constraint on 
Saputo would be from processors with plants located within 200 kilometres of the 
dairy farms which supply the Allansford and Koroit processing plants.  
48. Whilst processors with plants located outside of Western Victoria do acquire 
some milk from farms located in Western Victoria, the cost of transporting milk 
long distances limits their presence in the market. The ACCC considered that 
there would need to be a significant decrease in the price of raw milk (more than 
10 per cent) paid by those processors to economically compete in a substantive 
way in Western Victoria.   
49. Further, the ACCC’s analysis of farmer switching patterns (discussed further 
below) indicated that during the steps downs, when some processors 
significantly reduced their FMPs (by as much as 15 per cent), only a very small 
number of farmers switched to processors outside of Western Victoria. 
                                                 
14 On 27 October 2016 the Treasurer, the Hon Scott Morrison MP issued a notice requiring the ACCC to 
hold an inquiry into the competitiveness of prices, trading practices and the supply chain in the 
Australian dairy industry. See https://www.accc.gov.au/about-us/information-for/agriculture/dairy-
inquiry 
15 ACCC Dairy Inquiry, Interim Report, November 2017, p 99. 


 
 
Page 10 of 19 
50. Accordingly, in this matter, the ACCC considered Western Victoria to be the 
appropriate geographic market.  
51. However, the ACCC noted that even based on a broader geographic area – 
such as a region including all of Victoria and eastern South Australia – a 
combined Saputo-Murray Goulburn would still have by far the largest market 
share of raw milk acquisition, with Fonterra the next largest, and other 
processors with significantly smaller market shares. 
52. The ACCC also took into consideration processors’ state or region-wide pricing 
policies. This issue is discussed below under the heading ‘Relevance of 
processor pricing policies’. 
Closeness of competition between Saputo and Murray Goulburn  
53. The ACCC takes into account the closeness of competition or rivalry between 
competing firms in the market to determine which firms exert the most 
competitive constraint on one another. Where rival firms have in the past 
competed directly with one another for customers or suppliers, then competition 
concerns are more likely to be raised if this rivalry is lost as a result of a merger.  
54. The ACCC considered data, internal company documents and other information 
to assess the closeness of competition between Saputo and Murray Goulburn for 
the acquisition of raw milk; and the likely nature and intensity of competition 
between processors in the region with and without the proposed acquisition.  
55. Saputo and Murray Goulburn compete to acquire milk for their respective plants 
at Allansford and Koroit, which are about 30 kilometres’ drive from one another. 
These two plants are the largest in the region and account for a significant 
proportion of total raw milk processing capacity in Western Victoria. The ACCC 
estimated that a combined Saputo-Murray Goulburn would have over two-thirds 
of the processing capacity in Western Victoria, with Fonterra the next largest but 
with a much smaller share.  
56. Market inquiries indicated that the two companies target many of the same 
farmers for supply and closely monitor and react to each other’s conduct; and 
many farmers have changed from supplying one of them to supplying the other.  
57. The ACCC analysed confidential data regarding the switching of farmers 
between processors and, in particular, which processors dairy farmers switched 
to after leaving Murray Goulburn in the period from July 2016 to December 2017. 
The ACCC considered that this data showed in broad terms that:  
 
farmers in Western Victoria predominantly switch between alternative 
processors with plants within Western Victoria, as opposed to processors 
with plants outside of Western Victoria 
 
Murray Goulburn and Saputo are very close competitors  
 
Fonterra is a significant but smaller competitor in the Western Victoria 
region, compared to Saputo and Murray Goulburn, and 


 
 
Page 11 of 19 
 
smaller processors have (or have had) some competitive impact in winning 
farmers, including in particular UDC during its start-up period.  
58. The ACCC understands that the events of 2016 were unusual in the industry and 
farmers switched away from Murray Goulburn in greater numbers than might be 
expected in the normal course of events. The ACCC’s Dairy Inquiry found that 
processors typically experience churn of their milk volumes year-on-year of 
between two and nine per cent.16 In FY2017, Murray Goulburn’s reported milk 
volumes dropped by 23 per cent as approximately 370 farmers switched to other 
processors.17  
59. The ACCC considered that the ability to switch between processors is an 
important aspect of competition for farmers in the dairy industry. Saputo provided 
dairy farmers in Western Victoria that were supplying Murray Goulburn with a 
commercial alternative. Many farmers exercised that option in the face of a 
substantial decrease in Murray Goulburn’s FMP. If Saputo were to acquire 
Murray Goulburn’s Koroit plant and farmers were to become dissatisfied with 
Saputo in the future, the reverse option would not be available to them. 
60. The ACCC concluded that Saputo and Murray Goulburn are each other’s most 
significant competitors in the acquisition of raw milk in Western Victoria. 
Although Murray Goulburn’s financial difficulties have impacted its strength as a 
competitor in recent years, the size of its raw milk processing capacity and the 
quality of its assets mean that it would be likely to be a significant competitor in 
the future without the proposed acquisition (likely under different ownership). 
Saputo’s proposed acquisition of Murray Goulburn’s Koroit plant would eliminate 
this rivalry. 
Competition from other processors  
61. As noted above, the proposed acquisition would have combined the two 
processing plants with the largest processing capacities in Western Victoria by a 
substantial margin. However, the ACCC also considered the likely levels of 
competitive constraint on a combined Saputo-Murray Goulburn from other 
processors. The ACCC took into account the views of dairy farmers and other 
market participants, data and internal company documents.  
62. The ACCC considered that, all other things being equal, dairy processors with 
plants closer to the dairy farms that supply Saputo (Allansford) and Murray 
Goulburn (Koroit) in Western Victoria are likely to place stronger competitive 
pressure on a combined Saputo-Murray Goulburn than those with plants located 
further away. This is principally because a processor’s transport costs increase 
with distance: it is more expensive for them to acquire milk from farms located 
further away.  
63. The ACCC first looked at those processors within about 200 kilometres of most 
of the dairy farmers that supply Saputo at Allansford and Murray Goulburn at 
Koroit.  
                                                 
16 ACCC Dairy Inquiry, Interim Report, November 2017, p 17. 
17 Murray Goulburn Explanatory Memorandum, 14 March 2018, available at 
https://www.asx.com.au/asxpdf/20180314/pdf/43sdx65b05z054.pdf, p25. 


 
 
Page 12 of 19 
64. Although there are a number of other processors with plants located in Western 
Victoria, these plants are much smaller than the combined capacity of Saputo’s 
Allansford plant and Murray Goulburn’s Koroit plant. This limits the degree of 
competition they could provide to a combined Saputo-Murray Goulburn. 
65. The four main competing processors in Western Victoria are:  
 
Fonterra (at Cobden and Dennington)  
 
Bega (at Coburg)  
 
Bulla (at Colac), and  
 
UDC (at Penola).  
66. The ACCC considered that Fonterra is a significant competitor with the ability to 
place a degree of competitive pressure on a combined Saputo-Murray Goulburn 
in Western Victoria, as it competes to acquire milk for its Cobden and 
Dennington plants.  Dennington is close to Warrnambool and Cobden is 
approximately 60km away. However, the combined intake capacity of these two 
plants is significantly smaller than the capacity of either Saputo's Allansford or 
Murray Goulburn's Koroit plants. Although there is the potential for expansion of 
processing facilities, this would depend on a number of factors in the market 
including global and domestic demand for dairy products, financial 
circumstances of the firm, and whether or not excess capacity already exists in 
the market.  
67. Bega has acquired milk in the Western Victorian region for a number of years, 
but its share of volumes in Western Victoria are still small compared with Saputo, 
Murray Goulburn and Fonterra. Bega acquires milk in this region predominantly 
to supply its plant at Coburg. This plant only represents a small proportion of 
Bega’s overall production capacity, with its larger production facilities being 
located in New South Wales and northern Victoria. As noted above, although 
there is potential for the expansion of processing facilities, this can be restricted 
by a number of factors. 
68. The ACCC considered the significance of UDC. UDC is a joint venture between 
the Warrnambool-based Midfield meat processing group, and global 
commodities trader Louis Dreyfus. Since commencing operations in mid-2017, 
UDC has taken on a significant volume of raw milk. It has been reported that 
UDC also has planning approval for a dairy processing site in Warrnambool.18 
The ACCC considered UDC’s processing capacity and likelihood of expansion in 
assessing  whether it would be a strong competitor for dairy farmers in Western 
Victoria. However, even with the potential expansion, UDC’s intake capacity 
would be small compared to that of Saputo and Murray Goulburn.  
69. Other acquirers of milk in the Western Region that farmers cited as options to 
supply included the following. However the ACCC considered that the degree of 
constraint that they would be likely to exert on a combined Saputo-Murray 
Goulburn would be limited:  
                                                 
18 ‘First product rolls off line at the Union Dairy Company's Penola milk plant’, The Standard, 10 August 
2017, available at http://www.standard.net.au/story/4846301/first-product-rolls-off-line/. 


 
 
Page 13 of 19 
 
ACM 
 
Camperdown Dairy, which has a small processing plant at Camperdown  
 
Beston Global Food Company, which has moved from self-supply of raw 
milk to acquiring from other dairy farmers, for its plants in South Australia, 
about 500 kilometres from Warrnambool, and  
 
Australian Dairy Farmers Corporation, which acquires milk to be on-
supplied to processors including Bulla’s Colac plant.  
70. The ACCC considered the competitive constraint that all of the raw milk 
acquirers mentioned above provide in totality. The ACCC was concerned that, 
given their processing capacity and the likelihood of entry or expansion (see 
‘Likelihood of entry or expansion’ below), this group of competitors would not be 
enough to competitively constrain a combined Saputo-Murray Goulburn.  
Processors located outside Western Victoria 
71. The ACCC also considered the extent to which processing plants located further 
than 200km from the farmers who supply Allansford or Koroit may competitively 
constrain a combined Saputo-Murray Goulburn in setting its FMP in Western 
Victoria. This included Parmalat in Bendigo, Fonterra, Bega and Freedom Foods 
in the Shepparton region, Parmalat and Lion in the south-eastern suburbs of 
Melbourne and Burra to the east. Information from these processors indicated 
that the costs incurred in collecting and transporting milk to these plants from 
Western Victoria meant that they were highly unlikely to source a significant 
proportion of their required volumes from Western Victoria. In turn, this made 
them, at most, an unlikely alternative for many dairy farmers in Western Victoria.     
72. Moreover, the seasonal milk supply patterns that are typical in Western Victoria 
affect the incentives and costs of processors outside that region to contract with 
farmers from that region. Parmalat and Lion (which have dairy processing 
facilities outside Western Victoria) primarily use these facilities to produce ‘fresh’ 
dairy products such as drinking milk and yoghurt. They supply these products 
into the domestic retail market. Producing ‘fresh’ dairy products requires a 
relatively consistent supply of raw milk year-round, in comparison to producers of 
products like cheese and milk powder which can be stored for longer periods.   
73. Producers of ‘fresh’ dairy products, therefore, tend to place a lower value on 
(and therefore pay less for) supply from farms with a strong seasonal milk supply 
pattern.19 These processors tend to target farmers with flat milk production 
whereas most farmers in Western Victoria have more seasonal production. 
74. Accordingly, many dairy farmers in Western Victoria whose milk supply patterns 
are more seasonal may not be able profitably to supply Parmalat or Lion without 
changing their calving patterns. The ACCC understands changing calving 
patterns in this way may take at least two to three years and involve additional 
investments and foregone income through lost production. Furthermore, 
switching to an autumn calving system typically results in higher production costs 
                                                 
19 Meaning they produce more milk during spring than at other times of the year. 


 
 
Page 14 of 19 
and a greater risk profile for a farming business. Consequently, making this 
switch may be unviable or unattractive for many farmers.  
Relevance of processor pricing policies  
75. The ACCC understands that historically dairy processors in Australia, including 
Saputo, Murray Goulburn and Fonterra, have applied a single pricing policy and 
published a single headline farmgate milk price for the area known as the 
‘Southern Milk Region’, which encompasses Victoria, eastern South Australia, 
parts of southern NSW and Tasmania.20  
76. Processors have indicated that this policy of having a single pricing structure for 
the Southern Milk Region is driven by farmer preference and that having different 
price offers within a state such as Victoria would have a significant negative 
impact on their reputation with dairy farmers.  
77. The ACCC considered whether the practice of having a single Southern Milk 
Region pricing structure would restrict the ability of a combined Saputo-Murray 
Goulburn to lower farmgate prices in Western Victoria, even if it faced limited 
competition for raw milk in that particular region.  
78. The ACCC was concerned that such pricing practices would not provide 
sufficient protection to farmers in Western Victoria from lower farmgate prices 
resulting from the proposed acquisition, for the following reasons:  
 
the practice of a single pricing policy for the Southern Milk Region does not 
mean that all farmers supplying a particular processor receive the same 
amount for their milk. Processors are able to tailor their offer to farmers through 
various means, to target the retention or recruitment of farmers with particular 
characteristics or from a particular location. Examples of additional offers 
include offers of financial support, alterations to terms and conditions, offers of 
no disadvantage contracts, variations to payment timing, and sign-on or other 
bonuses;  
 
single pricing practices for the Southern Region may not necessarily continue 
in the future. The ACCC noted that this historical pricing pattern may have 
been driven largely by Murray Goulburn and its co-operative structure and 
other processors may have matched Murray Goulburn’s approach. The 
removal of Murray Goulburn as a result of the proposed acquisition may 
remove the drive for processors in the market to continue this pricing practice. 
The ACCC understands the industry view that farmers would not accept such a 
change in policy. However, pressure from farmers may not be sufficient to 
constrain pricing decisions by processors, particularly if farmers do not have 
sufficient processor options available to them; and 
 
additionally, the ACCC was concerned that if the proposed acquisition leads to 
Saputo and other processors, such as Fonterra, paying lower FMPs to farmers, 
Saputo’s FMP commitment (which references the prices of WCB and the two 
                                                 
20 The headline price announced by each processor reflects the price paid to a farm with designated 
production characteristics, after applying the pricing structure of the particular processor. These pricing 
structures vary between processors and result in different prices according to a farm’s production 
characteristics (e.g. some pricing structures may favour seasonal milk production over flat production, or 
vice versa). 


 
 
Page 15 of 19 
largest competing processors in the region) would not be sufficient to protect 
farmers from price decreases. 
Likelihood of entry or expansion  
79. The ACCC considered whether the threat of new entry and/or capacity 
expansion by existing processors in Western Victoria would be likely to constrain 
a combined Saputo-Murray Goulburn from exercising market power.  
80. There have been some recent examples of new entry (by UDC) and expansion 
plans announced by a number of existing processers (including Fonterra, ACM, 
Freedom Foods, Beston Foods and Burra Foods). Conversely, there are a 
number of examples of recent exit or failed entry in the industry, including 
National Dairy Products, United Dairy Power, Linear Capital/Aerem and 
Camperdown Dairy International (as distinct from Camperdown Dairy, which is a 
separate company).  
81. Smaller scale entry and expansion by existing processors may be more feasible. 
However, the ACCC was concerned that small scale entry and expansion may 
not provide, on their own, significant competitive constraint on Saputo if the 
acquisition of the Koroit processing plant were to proceed.  
82. Overall, the ACCC concluded that there were likely to be significant barriers to 
large-scale new entry into milk processing, including:  
 
the costs of establishing milk processing infrastructure, equipment and 
logistics capabilities are significant and many of these would not be 
recovered if the entry is unsuccessful. Further, fluctuations in commodity 
and exchange markets can increase the risk and costs of entry; 
 
incumbent processors enjoy an established presence in the industry, which 
can assist in retaining or attracting farmers. Smaller processors or new 
entrants may have difficulties matching or countering these advantages; 
and  
 
economies of scale in production are important. A rival processor may be 
at a cost disadvantage if it is unable to reach the scale of the major 
processors in the region.  
Summary of ACCC’s views 
83. The ACCC was concerned that the proposed acquisition of the Koroit processing 
plant by Saputo was likely to result in a substantial lessening of competition in 
the market for the acquisition of raw milk in Western Victoria, leading to reduced 
FMPs, less favourable contractual terms or reduced non-price offers for farmers, 
compared to the future without the proposed acquisition  
84. The ACCC considered that: 
 
Saputo and Murray Goulburn are each other’s closest competitor and have 
competed directly with one another for the acquisition of raw milk in 
Western Victoria. Their plants are the largest in the region and together 


 
 
Page 16 of 19 
account for an estimated two-thirds or more of the processing capacity in 
Western Victoria;  
 
Saputo’s proposed acquisition of Murray Goulburn’s Koroit plant would 
result in the two largest processors in the region merging and therefore 
reduce the number of processors in the region to which farmers could 
readily switch supply or threaten to switch supply, leading to farmers being 
paid less at least in the medium term; 
 
Fonterra would remain as a significant competitor in Western Victoria, 
along with a number of smaller processors. However, the ACCC was 
concerned that this group of processors independently or collectively would 
not be enough to competitively constrain a combined Saputo-Murray 
Goulburn from lowering FMPs;  
 
transport costs would limit the degree of competition from processors with 
plants located outside Western Victoria; 
 
new entry or expansion of the scale required to competitively constrain a 
combined Saputo-Murray Goulburn seemed unlikely; and  
 
region-wide pricing policies and Saputo’s five year price commitment were 
not sufficient to address the competition concerns. 
85. The ACCC notes that if Saputo acquired Murray Goulburn, Saputo would most 
likely seek to increase the amount of raw milk processed at the Koroit plant from 
current levels, but this has to be compared with the likely future if Koroit were 
owned separately from Saputo’s Allansford plant. The ACCC considered that 
another acquirer of Koroit would also seek to increase the amount of raw milk 
processed at the Koroit plant and, importantly, this would mean that farmers in 
the region would continue to have two large processors in the region competing 
for their raw milk supply.  
Competition analysis – supply of bulk cream, butter and 
cheese 
86. In the Statement of Issues, the ACCC stated its preliminary view that the 
proposed acquisition was unlikely to result in a substantial lessening of 
competition in the supply of any dairy products.  
87. Based on market feedback, the product markets that the ACCC focussed on 
were: 
 
the market for the manufacture and supply of bulk cream in Victoria and 
South Australia 
 
the national market for the manufacture and supply of bulk butter, and 
 
the national market for the manufacture and supply of bulk cheese. 


 
 
Page 17 of 19 
88. During the ACCC’s initial market inquiries, some customers raised concerns that 
the proposed acquisition may lessen competition in the supply of bulk cream, 
butter or cheese. 
89. Some market participants noted that Murray Goulburn had, in the past, been a 
major supplier of bulk dairy products, in competition with Saputo. 
90. However, many of the concerns raised by these market participants appeared to 
stem from existing market conditions, rather than the likely effects of the 
proposed acquisition. In particular: 
 
changes in consumer preferences both in Australia and globally (for 
example, consumers choosing full fat milk over reduced fat) had led to 
increased demand for dairy fats. This in turn had led to decreased 
availability of bulk cream, bulk butter and bulk cheese as dairy processors 
used the fats from their raw milk in their generally more profitable, retail 
products (such as packaged cream or butter); and 
 
some market participants also commented that Murray Goulburn’s 
significantly reduced milk intake volumes (see ‘Recent events in the dairy 
industry’ above) had meant that its supply of bulk products had decreased 
significantly in recent years as it channelled its available milk volumes into 
its retail products. The milk volumes lost by Murray Goulburn had been 
diverted to other processors who had different product mixes. 
91. The ACCC considered that after the proposed acquisition, there would be a 
number of alternate suppliers in each of the three bulk product markets identified 
above. Alternate domestic suppliers of some or all of these bulk dairy products 
included Fonterra and (to a lesser extent) Bega, Lion, Parmalat, Beston, Burra 
Foods, Freedom Foods and UDC. To the extent that these processors currently 
supply only the retail version of a product (e.g. they supply packaged cheese but 
not bulk cheese), it appears they could switch to supplying the bulk product 
relatively quickly and easily if the commercial returns justified it. 
92. Further, in relation to bulk butter and cheese, the ACCC considered that actual 
or potential competition from imports of these products was likely to constrain the 
prices which Australian-based dairy processors charge. Imports of butter and 
cheese have been increasing and have already taken significant shares of bulk 
butter and bulk cheese markets. Although some market participants expressed a 
preference for Australian-made products, it appeared that imported products 
would be substitutable for the majority of customers. 
93. A small number of bulk cream customers may also have some countervailing 
power to bypass dairy processors and invest in processing facilities to acquire 
raw milk (either directly from farmers or through brokers) to produce their own 
cream. 
94. In light of these factors, the ACCC considered that the proposed acquisition was 
not likely to substantially lessen competition in the supply of any dairy product.  


 
 
Page 18 of 19 
Undertaking 
95. In order to address the ACCC’s competition concerns, Saputo provided a court 
enforceable undertaking pursuant to section 87B of the Act to divest the Koroit 
dairy processing plant, and related assets and personnel, within a specified 
period to a purchaser to be approved by the ACCC.  
96. The ACCC consulted widely on the undertaking, including with some potential 
purchasers of the Koroit plant, other processors and farmers. 
97. Some farmers and farmer representative groups raised concerns with the ACCC 
about the proposed divestiture of the Koroit processing plant and stated their 
views that Saputo should be allowed to retain the plant, for a range of reasons, 
including a desire for stability and concerns as to the future purchaser. The 
ACCC acknowledges those views. However, the ACCC was concerned about 
the impact on competition as a result of the proposed acquisition and the 
likelihood that this could result in reduced FMPs, less favourable contractual 
terms or reduced non-price offers to farmers in Western Victoria.  
98. Taking into account the results of the consultations, the ACCC concluded that 
Saputo’s proposed divestiture of the Koroit processing plant addressed these 
concerns while allowing the broader Saputo-Murray Goulburn transaction to 
proceed.   
99. The undertaking contains a number of requirements for Saputo, including: 
 
to appoint an ACCC-approved independent manager to manage Koroit 
until it is sold to a purchaser approved by the ACCC  
 
to provide certain transitional assistance to the approved purchaser, and 
 
to provide for independent oversight of Saputo’s compliance with its 
obligations in the undertaking.  
100. The undertaking also requires Saputo to supply the Koroit plant with a 
guaranteed volume of raw milk for a specified period. The purpose of this 
obligation is to ensure that the approved purchaser has an initial minimum 
volume of milk to operate the Koroit plant and to allow for a sufficient period of 
time to enable the purchaser to establish itself and grow a farmer base. The 
ACCC expects that the approved purchaser will compete to acquire additional 
volumes of milk from farmers. 
101. The divestiture of the Koroit plant largely removes the overlap between Saputo 
and Murray Goulburn in the acquisition of raw milk in Western Victoria and will 
allow for an alternative processor to compete in this region. On this basis, the 
ACCC considered that the undertaking addressed the ACCC’s competition 
concerns arising from the proposed acquisition. 
102. A copy of the undertaking is available on the ACCC mergers register and 
undertakings register. 


 
 
Page 19 of 19 
Conclusion 
103. Based on the above analysis, the ACCC concluded that the proposed acquisition 
of Murray Goulburn’s assets by Saputo, in conjunction with the undertaking, 
would not be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in 
any market. 
