 
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
tel: (02) 6243 1111 
www.accc.gov.au
 
Our ref: 
59930 
Contact officer: Adelle Low 
Contact phone: 02 6243 1204 
26 March 2018 
Antony Perkins 
Managing Director 
Australian Amalgamated Terminals 
 
 
By email:  
antony.perkins@aaterminals.com.au  
Cc:  
craley@thompsonclarke.com.au   
 
Dear Mr Perkins 
Re: Qube / AAT s87B undertaking – limited waiver request for ring fenced personnel 
provisions 
I refer to your letter provided on 20 February 2018 and subsequent information you provided 
on 26 February and 16 March 2018 regarding your request for the ACCC to provide a limited 
waiver in respect of clause 6.4(a) of the section 87B undertaking given by Australian 
Amalgamated Terminals (AAT) and Qube Holdings (Qube) and accepted by the ACCC on 
23 November 2016. 
In your letter, you sought a limited waiver of clause 6.4(a) of the undertaking in order for you 
to hold a position within Qube for two years to assist the Qube Infrastructure and Property 
Asset group at Qube in the development of the rail operations at the Moorebank Intermodal 
(port shuttle) and Interstate rail terminal at Moorebank (Qube role), while also maintaining 
your position as Managing Director of AAT.  
The ACCC has considered the information provided by you and other material it has before it 
and, based on that information, the ACCC has decided to grant a limited waiver of clause 
6.4(a) of the undertaking to permit you, Anthony Perkins - AAT’s Managing Director, to assist 
the Qube Infrastructure and Property Asset group at Qube in the development of the rail 
operations at the Moorebank Intermodal (port shuttle) and Interstate rail terminal at 
Moorebank for two years from the date of this letter.  
This limited waiver is granted to AAT and Qube on condition that you provide details on your 
role and activities undertaken by you at Moorebank and any breaches or potential breaches 
of clause 6 in each Compliance Report provided by AAT to the ACCC and the independent 
auditor in accordance with clause 8(a) of the undertaking.  
I note AAT remains under obligations to ensure you comply with clause 6.1, which relates to 
access to and use of ring-fenced confidential information.   


 
2
This limited waiver is granted to AAT and Qube as clause 6.4(a) provides an obligation on 
each party.  However, AAT and Qube remain subject to the confidentiality obligations in 
clause 6 of the undertaking.  They also remain subject to the ring fenced personnel 
obligations in clause 6 except in relation to you and your Qube role for the limited purpose 
and limited time provided by this waiver. 
If new information comes to the ACCC’s attention, or if the ACCC becomes aware that any 
information upon which it has based its view is incorrect or incomplete, the ACCC reserves 
the right to reconsider this decision. 
A copy of this letter will be provided to the auditor.  A copy will also be placed on the ACCC’s 
undertakings public register. 
Your letter also advised that AAT accounts will be migrating to Qube’s Peoplesoft system in 
the next financial year with appropriate security protocols. We will respond separately to that 
matter.  
Yours sincerely  
 
Suzie Copley 
General Manager 
Coordination & Strategy 
Merger & Authorisation Review  
