The wording of this undertaking has been superseded by a variation. 
See the ACCC's public register for further information. 


       
 
  
 
 
 
 
1 
AAT – June 2015 
 
Australian Amalgamated Terminals 
Webb Dock West Berths 1 & 2 and Appleton Dock Berths 1 & 2 
Berth Priority Arrangements during the Port of Melbourne 
Corporation Port Capacity Project 
1 BERTH PRIORITY 
Preamble  
During the Port of Melbourne (PoMC) Port Capacity Project (PCP), berthing of vessels at both Appleton 
Dock and Webb Dock West (WDW) will be managed in accordance with the following berthing priorities, 
in order to efficiently accommodate the car trade in the port. 
Australian amalgamated Terminals (AAT) will be responsible for the allocations of all berths, Webb Dock 
West Berths 1 & 2 and Appleton Dock Berths 1 (D & E) and 2 (B & C).  
Priorities referred in this document to relate to berth priorities for the relevant berths only. The vessel 
movements or traffic priorities will be managed by VTS as detailed in Item 4.3.4 in PoMC’s Operations 
Handbook. 
Webb Dock West 
Toyota export vessels will receive priority to one (1) berth at Webb Dock West.  
This scheduled priority will commence 0600 hours on Wednesdays until loaded.  All cargo operations 
will be continuous and productive.  Permitted time alongside will be dependent on volume and agreed 
with AAT. In the event that a Toyota export vessel’s scheduled ETA is after 0600 hours on Wednesday, it 
will no longer have priority.   
Where only one (1) berth is available, Non Priority Vessels that arrive within 8 hours prior of the export 
loading vessel will have to wait or use Appleton Dock subject to yard and berth availabilities.   
 
Webb Dock West will only be able to accommodate two (2) x 200 metre PCC/PCTC vessels or one (1) 
vessel greater than 200 metres at any one time as per the PoMC Operations Handbook, Harbour 
Master’s Directions. 
 
Appleton Dock 
PCC/PCTC vessels will receive priorities at Appleton Dock 1& 2. 
General Requirements 


       
 
  
 
 
 
 
2 
AAT – June 2015 
Priorities will be maintained for up to 8 hrs. at the Fawkner Beacon over a vessel of lesser priority. 
Alternative arrangements, to maintain efficiency and avoid delays, can be permitted subject to 
agreement between shipping agents and AAT. Vessels will be permitted to berth for more than 8 hrs. 
provided that cargo operations are continuous and productive. 
Allocation of berthing for non-priority vessels (described above) will be based on the order of arrival at 
Fawkner Beacon. 
The projected ETA at Fawkner Beacon provided on the day prior to arrival will be used by AAT to 
establish the terminal working arrangements in consultation with the Stevedores for the following day. 
Once the terminal working arrangements for the following day have been finalized and the stevedores 
have ordered their labour, no changes can be made to the working arrangements.  If the stevedore is 
not able to provide sufficient labour to ensure the vessel is able to achieve ETD, then AAT will reallocate 
the priority berth to another vessel, as determined at the AAT Daily Operations Meeting. 
AAT will request the agent to make arrangements to remove the vessel to anchorage if the stevedore is 
unable to supply sufficient labour to work the vessel during operations. 
Berthing vessels must have labour on arrival.  The stevedore must commence work on the vessel 
immediately it is ready to be worked. 
In keeping with these priorities, AAT will advise stevedores/agents appropriately on berthing allocations 
and required sequence, particularly during times of congestion. Shipping agents shall then adjust their 
berthing requirements in PortVIEW. 
AAT/Terminal Superintendents will communicate daily and plan in consultation with PoMC Harbour 
Control. 
Conflict Resolution 
Any conflicts arising as a result of commercial interpretations of these berthing priorities shall be 
arbitrated by AAT.   
Any conflicts arising as a result of operational interpretations of these berthing priorities, or from any 
other circumstances involving shipping within the port limits, shall be arbitrated by the Harbour Master 
(or his authorized delegate) as per the Port Operations Handbook (refer clause 4.3.4). The Harbour 
Masters decision is final. 
 
Note to AAT:   In the initial stage of the PCP, weekly meetings to consider the schedule of vessels and 
berthing priority arrangements are to be held between AAT and VTS manager or his representative.  (As 
MVTS would have no Portview knowledge of car carriers loading export cars this meeting seeks to 
provide clarification in this area as well as provide a platform for arranging advance berthing priorities 
as per the plan.  AAT need to initiate reconfirmation of its berthing schedule by email or consolation with 
PoMC 48 hours prior. ) 


PKPC Port Information Guide  
 
Annex A (Restricted) 
 
 
Berthing Priorities  
02qd04 
Version 1 – 28 June 2012  
 
Uncontrolled when printed 
General 
Berthing allocations are generally conducted on a ‘first booked, first served’ basis. 
Nominations and bookings are made by Ships Agents into the PKPC CPorts shipping 
management system. Vessels will be allocated a ‘time slot’ in the shipping schedule based 
upon slot availability, with due regard to other shipping bookings on either side and/ or the 
Vessel Cycling Table. 
 
Conflict resolution 
 
Any conflicts arising as a result of interpretations of these berthing priorities, or from any 
other circumstances involving shipping within port limits, shall be arbitrated by the Port 
Kembla Harbour Master (or his authorised delegate) and the Harbour Masters decision is 
final. The Harbour Master may give directions pursuant to Part 7 Sections 88 and 89 of the 
NSW Marine Safety Act, 1998. 
 
Vessel Nomination 
Agents may nominate a vessel for arrival to Port Kembla via CPorts even without a firm ETA 
known. While this may be useful for advanced planning, it does not constitute a confirmed 
vessel booking. 
 
Vessel Booking 
A Booking must be made at least 48 hours prior to the desired Pilot embarkation time and 
confirmed 24 hours in advance.  
Agents must confirm berth allocation with the Terminal prior to confirmation of the booking 
with PKPC (see additional berthing priority information below). 
Additionally, the following information to be supplied before a booking is confirmed: 
 48hr Pre-arrival Form 
 Tanker Checklist (if applicable) 
 Crew List 
 ISPS 


PKPC Port Information Guide  
 
Annex A (Restricted) 
 
 
Berthing Priorities  
02qd04 
Version 1 – 28 June 2012  
 
Uncontrolled when printed 
 
When the information above has been received and processed by VTIC, the booking will be 
confirmed. Once confirmed, the time slot is assigned to the ship. 
 
 
Relinquishing a Pilot Booking 
 
A Booking can be relinquished under the following circumstances: 
 
 Mutual agreement between agents and/ or terminals 
 Failure to undertake Pilotage within 15 minutes after the assigned time (or as 
determined by the Harbour Master) 
 As requested by the Terminal due to internal booking assignments in accordance 
with their own operating procedures (see additional berthing priority information 
below), or 
 As directed by the Harbour Master 
For vessels that fail to undertake Pilotage within 15 minutes of the assigned time, the vessel 
will be allocated a new time slot at the discretion of the Harbour Master on a ‘non-
interference’ basis to other shipping already booked in the schedule.  
 
Seaworthiness and Compliance 
 
No ship will be accepted for movement at Port Kembla where the ship is not seaworthy and/ 
or not compliant with all International and National shipping standards, AMSA Marine 
Orders and National/ State legislative requirements.  
 
Special attention is drawn to the requirements for the correct rigging of Pilot Ladders as 
required by SOLAS regulations and IMO standards.   
 
 
Additional berthing priority information 
 
AAT Terminal 
 
Schedule 2 of the AAT Management Deed as agreed between PKPC and AAT provides for 
AAT to manage the allocation of berthing spaces for Berths 103, 105, 106 & 107, including 


PKPC Port Information Guide  
 
Annex A (Restricted) 
 
 
Berthing Priorities  
02qd04 
Version 1 – 28 June 2012  
 
Uncontrolled when printed 
vessel and berth assignment. AAT must inform PKPC VTIC of the preferred berthing 
sequence and berth allocations. 
 
If required and available, B104 can be made available to AAT by PKPC so long as it does not 
adversely affect grain ships that ordinarily berth at B104. 
 
Vessel priorities for AAT can be summarised as such: 
 
 Two berths are dedicated for PCC/ PCTC vessels and two berths are prioritised for 
General Cargo/ Container vessels 
 Contract vessels have priority. However non-contract vessels, once allocated a berth, 
shall not be operationally impacted by contract vessels. 
 The wharf priorities detailed above will be maintained for a period of up to 8 hours 
over a vessel of lesser priority. 
 Any vessel allocated a berth at AAT must complete all operations and vacate the 
wharf within the time allocated unless other arrangements have been made with 
AAT. 
 Vessels alongside a berth and not working must give way to a working vessel 
requiring that berth. 
 If no other berths are available in the port and a berth is required by PKPC for a 
vessel (non-cargo), then the PKPC Harbour Master may direct that AAT make a wharf 
available to that vessel. 
 
If there is a dispute between parties which cannot be resolved through normal mediation 
processes, the Harbour Master will make the final decision on the matter. 
 
Vessel Cycling 
 
PKPC Cports system is operated in strict vessel cycling times in accordance with the table at 
the rear of this code. 
The Cports system will therefore only allow ship movements in accordance with the cycling 
times. 
Cycling times are administered by the VTIC on behalf of the Harbour Master. 
 
 


PKPC Port Information Guide  
 
Annex A (Restricted) 
 
 
Berthing Priorities  
02qd04 
Version 1 – 28 June 2012  
 
Uncontrolled when printed 
Grain Terminal 
Grain ships have priority over non-grain ships for berthing allocation at this berth. This 
protocol extends to non-grain ships that are already alongside the grain berth (working or 
not) – such vessels must vacate the berth at their own expense when provided with the 
required notice of an arriving grain ship (24 hours confirmed booking as per PKPC vessel 
booking requirements detailed above). Vessels that have not met the minimum 24 hour 
notice period will not take precedence over other vessels. 
 
No grain ship has any right to hold the grain berth in the event it has failed survey and/or 
been declared unfit to load or cargo has not been consolidated for shipment. If a 
subsequent grain ship is waiting for the berth and cargo is available, the ship that has failed 
survey may be instructed to vacate the berth at its expense.  
Deep Draft Ships 
Deep Draft Ships are ships over 14m that require tidal windows for safe movement in and 
about the port. These vessels will be given priority for vessel movements when two vessels 
are competing for the same unallocated time slot in the shipping schedule. 
 
It is imperative that accurate times for arrival and departure along with accurate drafts are 
submitted when booking a tidal affected ship. Failure to submit accurate information may 
result in the shipping movement being re-scheduled to the next suitable tidal window, 
possibly resulting in significant delays. 
