  
Page 1 of 19  
  
Statement of Issues  
4 September 2025  
Insurance Australia Group Limited’s proposed 
acquisition of RAC Insurance Pty Limited   
Purpose  
1. Insurance Australia Group Limited (IAG) proposes to acquire 100 per cent of the shares 
in RAC Insurance Pty Limited (RACI) from the Royal Automobile Club of Western 
Australia Inc (RAC) and enter into a 20-year agreement for RAC to exclusively distribute 
insurance products underwritten by IAG under the RAC brand (the Proposed 
Acquisition).  
2. This Statement of Issues:  
• 
gives the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission’s (ACCC) 
preliminary views on competition issues arising from the Proposed Acquisition  
• 
identifies areas of further inquiry, and  
• 
invites interested parties to submit comments and information to assist the 
ACCC’s assessment of the issues.  
3. Statements of Issues do not refer to confidential information provided by the parties or 
other market participants and therefore may not fully articulate the ACCC’s preliminary 
position.  
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views  
4. In considering the Proposed Acquisition, the ACCC applies the legal test set out in 
section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the CCA). In general terms, 
section 50 prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to have the 
effect, of substantially lessening competition in any market.  
5. The ACCC divides its preliminary views into three categories: 'issues of concern', 'issues 
that may raise concerns' and ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’. In this Statement of 
Issues there are two ‘issues of concern’ and one ‘issue that may raise concerns’.  


  
Page 2 of 19  
Issues of concern – horizontal unilateral effects in the supply of motor insurance and the 
supply of home and contents insurance in Western Australia 
6. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the Proposed Acquisition is likely to have the effect 
of substantially lessening competition in the supply of motor insurance and the supply 
of home and contents insurance in Western Australia. While the ACCC is considering the 
impact of the proposed acquisition on the supply of motor insurance and separately on 
the supply of home and contents insurance, the reasons for the ACCC’s competition 
concerns are similar across both types of insurance:  
• 
the Proposed Acquisition would increase concentration in already highly 
concentrated markets 
• 
RACI is a large and growing competitor that focusses on value for its customers, 
and competes closely with IAG, and the Proposed Acquisition would remove the 
significant competitive constraint IAG and RACI presently impose on each other 
• 
absent the Proposed Acquisition RACI is likely to continue to compete strongly in 
the supply of motor insurance and home and contents insurance in Western 
Australia, and  
• 
other existing insurers operating in Western Australia, and the threat of new entry 
or expansion, are unlikely to provide a sufficient competitive constraint on IAG 
post-acquisition. 
7. The ACCC is concerned that the Proposed Acquisition would enable IAG to profitably 
increase the prices and/or reduce the service quality of its existing and RACI branded 
motor insurance and home and contents insurance product and service offerings. 
8. The ACCC considers that if the Proposed Acquisition substantially lessens competition 
in the supply of motor vehicle insurance or the supply of home and contents insurance, 
the Proposed Acquisition is also likely to substantially lessen competition in markets for 
the acquisition of motor vehicle repair services or the acquisition of home repair 
services, respectively. However, the ACCC considers that competitive harm in these 
upstream markets is unlikely to come about in the absence of a substantial lessening of 
competition in the corresponding downstream market for the supply of motor vehicle 
insurance or the supply of home and contents insurance. Therefore, the ACCC has not 
raised its concerns regarding these upstream markets independently in this Statement 
of Issues.  
Issue that may raise concerns – foreclosure of competing suppliers of motor insurance 
and home and contents insurance in Western Australia 
9. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the Proposed Acquisition may have the effect of 
substantially lessening competition in the supply of motor insurance and home and 
contents insurance in Western Australia by enabling IAG to foreclose or partially 
foreclose rival insurers’ access to quality and cost-effective repairers or otherwise 
increase rivals’ costs of acquiring repair services to service their insurance contracts 
with customers.  


  
Page 3 of 19  
Making a submission  
10. The ACCC invites submissions from interested parties, particularly on the following key 
issues: 
• 
whether RACI is a strong competitor in the supply of motor insurance and 
separately in the supply of home and contents insurance in Western Australia – 
for example, through the quality of its service offering, local physical presence 
in the state, and/or value for money, and whether RACI is likely to continue to be 
a strong competitor absent the Proposed Acquisition 
• 
the closeness of competition between IAG and RACI in the supply of motor 
insurance and in the supply of home and contents insurance in Western 
Australia, the degree of competitive constraint they impose on each other, and 
the extent to which IAG and RACI would compete in the future absent the 
Proposed Acquisition 
• 
the degree of competitive constraint that existing insurers and potential new 
entrant insurers are likely to impose on the merged entity post-acquisition, and 
the nature of that constraint – for example, price only, or price, coverage, and 
service quality, etc, and 
• 
the likely extent to which IAG has the ability and incentive to foreclose or 
frustrate other insurers’ access to repair services in Western Australia post-
acquisition, including whether this differs between motor and home repairs as 
well as the competitive effect of any such strategy.  
11. Interested parties should provide submissions by 5pm on 18 September 2025. 
Responses may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: Submission re: 
IAG/RACI. If you would like to discuss the matter with ACCC staff or have any questions 
about this Statement of Issues, please email mergers@accc.gov.au.   
12. The ACCC anticipates making a final decision on 27 November 2025, however, this 
timeline can change. To keep up with possible timing changes and to find relevant 
documents, interested parties should visit the Mergers Register on the ACCC's website 
at https://www.accc.gov.au/public-registers/mergers-and-acquisitions-registers/public-
informal-merger-reviews-register.  
Confidentiality of submissions  
13. The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the Proposed Acquisition. The ACCC 
will not disclose submissions to third parties (except its advisors/consultants) unless 
compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or during court 
proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the CCA. Where the ACCC is required to 
disclose confidential information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where possible so 
that you may have an opportunity to be heard. Therefore, please identify any confidential 
information that is provided to the ACCC. The ACCC’s Informal Merger Review Process 
Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality.  


  
Page 4 of 19  
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’  
14. A Statement of Issues is not a final decision about a proposed acquisition. A Statement 
of Issues outlines the ACCC’s preliminary views and identifies further lines of inquiry.  
15. A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide the 
merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary.  
The parties and the proposed acquisition 
The acquirer: IAG 
16. IAG is an ASX-listed (ASX: IAG) general insurance company operating in Australia and 
New Zealand. As at 30 June 2025, IAG had 6.3 million direct customers across Australia 
and New Zealand.1 
17. IAG provides a range of personal and commercial insurance products in Australia 
directly under its owned brands, including NRMA, Swann Insurance, ROLLiN’, Cylo and 
Lumley Special Vehicles.  
18. Through its joint venture business, Insurance Manufacturers of Australia Pty Limited, 
IAG provides personal lines insurance in Victoria distributed by its joint venture partner 
RACV.  
19. In addition, IAG provides intermediated insurance through brokers, authorised financial 
representatives, institutions and agents under the CGU and WFI brands. IAG also 
underwrites insurance products distributed by financial institutions, including Bendigo 
and Adelaide Bank, People’s Choice Bank and, since 2023, ANZ Bank.  
20. For the financial year ended 30 June 2025, IAG reported $17.1 billion in gross written 
premiums and net profit after tax of $1,359 million.2  
The target: RACI 
21. RAC is a Western Australian based member-owned mutual association that provides 
roadside assistance, general insurance products, and other ancillary services to its 
members.  
22. RACI underwrites motor insurance and home and contents insurance for RAC.   
23. RAC distributes other personal lines of general insurance underwritten by third party 
insurers. Namely, RAC distributes travel insurance underwritten by Tokio Marine & 
Nichido Fire Insurance Co. Ltd. RAC also has arrangements in place for the supply of 
 
1  
IAG, Annual Report 2025, p.7. 
2  
IAG, FY25 results, 13 August 2025, p.1. 


  
Page 5 of 19  
health insurance underwritten by HCF, life insurance underwritten by NobleOak Life 
Limited and pet insurance underwritten by RACQ Insurance (RACQI).   
24. RAC has approximately 1.3 million members. For the financial year ended 30 June 2024, 
RAC reported $1.3 billion in gross written premiums and net earned premium of over $1 
billion.3 
The Proposed Acquisition  
25. The Proposed Acquisition would result in IAG underwriting motor insurance and home 
and contents insurance under the RAC brand. Products currently distributed by RAC 
under other underwriting arrangements (i.e., travel insurance, health insurance and life 
insurance) are excluded from the transaction, with the option for IAG to make an offer to 
supply these insurance products following expiry of the existing arrangements.4  
26. The Proposed Acquisition does not involve the acquisition by IAG of RAC's roadside 
assistance business or its other operations including RAC's auto servicing and repair 
services, finance, retirement living, home security, batteries, tyres, travel and tourism 
operations. These businesses would continue to be independently operated by RAC and 
are not affected by the Proposed Acquisition. 
Industry background 
Personal lines general insurance 
27. Personal lines general insurance includes insurance products and related services taken 
out by individuals and families, including home and contents, motor, travel, and pet 
insurance.  
28. Motor insurance and home and contents insurance encompass a range of risks 
including those identified in Figure 1 below.  
Figure 1: Home and contents insurance and motor insurance in Australia  
Insurance product & 
related services 
Description 
Home insurance  
Home (building) and 
contents 
Home and contents insurance typically covers the 
building and contents in a single combined policy, 
including the risks outlined in relation to home 
(building) insurance and contents insurance below. 
 
3  
IAG, ASX release 15 May 2025 (Web page) <https://www.iag.com.au/content/dam/corporate-iag/iag-
aus/au/en/documents/newsroom/may-15-iag-enters-strategic-alliance-with-rac-announcement-investor-slides.pdf>.  
4  
Pet insurance distributed by RACI and underwritten by RACQI will be acquired by IAG upon completion of IAG’s 
acquisition of RACQI. Once the Proposed Acquisition is completed, RACWA Holdings Pty Ltd (RACWAH) will distribute 
those pet insurance products pursuant to a separate sub-distribution agreement to be entered into by RACI and RACWAH. 


  
Page 6 of 19  
Insurance product & 
related services 
Description 
Home (building) 
insurance 
Home buildings insurance typically covers the cost to 
repair or rebuild a home if it is damaged or destroyed 
by a covered incident, for example fire, water damage 
from leaks, floods and storms, and theft and 
vandalism, up to the sum insured. Policies may 
additionally cover accommodation expenses if the 
home is unliveable. 
Contents insurance 
Contents insurance typically covers the cost of 
replacing items in a policyholder's home, for example 
furniture, jewellery and electronics, which may be 
damaged in weather events such as floods, storm and 
storm surge, fire, leaks, and theft and vandalism.  
Some insurers also offer portable contents insurance, 
which covers items such as laptops, sunglasses and 
jewellery, which may be carried with the owner and 
lost or stolen while they are out. 
Landlord insurance 
Landlord insurance covers risks such as loss of rent 
during repairs, damage caused by fire, loss or damage 
to furniture and furnishings (e.g. carpet), damage from 
leaks, flood, storm and storm surge, stolen items and 
damage caused from theft and vandalism. 
Motor insurance 
Car insurance 
 
Car insurance protects the policyholder against 
financial loss if their car is involved in an accident, is 
stolen or catches fire. Different levels of cover are 
available and typically include comprehensive cover 
(including damage to the car and other people's cars 
in an accident including where it is the driver's fault, 
other types of damage and theft), third party, fire and 
theft (covering damage to other people's cars in an 
accident, and damage caused by fire or theft). 
Some insurers additionally offer insurance specifically 
for vehicles used for ridesharing, and vehicles insured 
under a car insurance policy can in some cases be 
covered when used for ridesharing. 
Compulsory Third Party (CTP) insurance, which is 
legally required in some jurisdictions including 
Western Australia, is generally considered a separate 
insurance product.  


  
Page 7 of 19  
Insurance product & 
related services 
Description 
Other vehicles 
General insurers often offer specific policies 
depending on the vehicle type, for example, boats and 
heavy vehicles. The types of cover available are often 
similar to those available for car insurance.  
 
Distribution of insurance products  
29. Insurance policies are offered to policyholders through a number of channels, which are 
substitutable from a demand-side perspective, including the following: 
• 
Direct distribution channels involve the consumer purchasing an insurance 
policy directly from an insurance provider through one of its brands online, over 
the phone, or at a branch. Most general insurance policies are sold through 
direct distribution channels.  
• 
Intermediated/indirect channels involve insurers entering into distribution 
agreements or partnerships with established companies that do not underwrite 
insurance policies, such as supermarkets and banks. The non-insurance 
company then uses its platform and distribution channels to facilitate the sale 
of general insurance products.  
• 
Brokers provide advice and options to the prospective policyholder, and arrange 
appropriate policies through insurers.  
• 
Comparison websites and aggregators are generally online platforms that act 
as a third-party intermediary between insurers and consumers searching for a 
range of insurance products. Comparison websites active in Australia include 
Compare the Market, iSelect, Choosi, Canstar, and the Insurance Council of 
Australia’s (ICA) ‘find an insurer’.  
Acquisition of repair services 
30. Insurers acquire repair services as inputs to the supply of personal lines general 
insurance. For motor insurance, these services include smash repair services, and 
windscreen repair and replacement services. For home and contents insurance these 
include building repair services.  
31. Insurers generally acquire these services on a local basis through arrangements with 
third-party providers. These arrangements may be with local independent operators or 
through regional and national arrangements with providers such as O’Briens, Drive 
Group, and AMA Group, or national contractors who subcontract to local providers.  


  
Page 8 of 19  
Insurance suppliers in Western Australia  
32. Personal lines general insurance products are underwritten by insurers who are 
authorised under the Insurance Act 1973 (Cth) and regulated by the Australian Prudential 
Regulatory Authority (APRA). 
33. In Western Australia, in addition to IAG and RACI, suppliers of personal lines general 
insurance include established insurers and mid-tier insurers (sometimes referred to as 
“challenger” brands) as set out in Figure 2 below. 
Figure 2: Insurance suppliers in Western Australia 
Insurer 
Description 
Established insurers 
Suncorp 
Suncorp is a publicly listed insurance company and the 
second largest general insurer in Australia. Suncorp’s 
gross written premiums totalled approximately $15.0 
billion in the 12 months to 30 June 2025.5 
Suncorp’s direct and indirect personal lines general 
insurance brands include Suncorp, AAMI, GIO, Bingle, Vero, 
Apia, CIL, Terri Scheer, and AA Insurance. 
Allianz 
Allianz is a wholly owned subsidiary of the German-based 
financial services company, Allianz SE.  
Allianz’s direct and indirect personal lines general 
insurance brands include Allianz, TIO, Westpac, NAB, St 
George, RAMS, Aussie, HSBC, Bank SA, Newcastle 
Permanent, Catholic Church Insurance, RAA, Kia, Hyundai, 
BMW, Audi, and Mazda. 
QBE 
QBE is a publicly listed insurer offering commercial, 
casualty and speciality, and personal lines insurance and 
risk management services. QBE’s gross written premiums 
totalled approximately $8.0 billion in the 12 months to 30 
June 2024.6 
QBE’s direct and indirect personal lines general insurance 
brands include QBE, Australia Post, Stella, Mercedes Benz, 
Elders Insurance, and Kogan Insurance. 
Mid-tier insurers (sometimes known as “challenger” brands) 
 
5  
Suncorp, FY25 Annual Report: Building futures and protecting what matters (Report, 25 August 2025). 
6  
QBE Insurance Group, QBE: 2024 Annual Report (Report, 31 December 2024).  


  
Page 9 of 19  
Insurer 
Description 
Auto & General 
Auto & General is part of the international, privately held 
group BHL Holdings Limited, headquartered in the United 
Kingdom.  
Auto & General’s direct and indirect personal lines general 
insurance brands include Budget Direct, Qantas, and Coles. 
Youi 
 
Youi commenced offering personal lines general insurance 
in 2008 and supplies home and motor insurance in most 
parts of Australia under its Youi brand.  
Hollard 
Hollard is owned by the Netherlands based privately owned 
insurance business investment holding company, IVM 
Intersurer B.V.  
Hollard’s direct and indirect personal lines general 
insurance brands include Hollard, CBA, Real Insurance, 
Everyday Insurance (Woolworths), Bupa, Australian 
Seniors, and Steadfast. 
 
34. Historically, motoring clubs supplied motor insurance and sometimes other personal 
lines general insurance as well as other member services, such as roadside assistance. 
Over time, several of the state-based motoring clubs have sold their insurance 
businesses to larger insurers and/or entered long-term exclusive distribution 
arrangements: 
• 
New South Wales and Australian Capital Territory: The motoring club, NRMA 
demutualised in 2000, separating its road services and insurance operations, 
and listed its insurance business on the ASX (later becoming IAG). 
• 
Victoria: In 1999, NRMA entered a joint venture with motoring club RACV, where 
NRMA (now, IAG) underwrites RACV-branded home and contents and motor 
insurance across Victoria, while RACV manages distribution and member 
engagement. 
• 
Queensland: In May 2025, the ACCC announced that it would not oppose IAG’s 
proposed acquisition of a 90 per cent interest in RACQI, Queensland’s motoring 
club insurance business. The deal included a 25-year exclusive distribution 
agreement allowing RACQ to sell insurance underwritten by IAG under the RACQ 
brand. The transaction completed on 1 September 2025.  
• 
South Australia: In June 2025, the ACCC announced that it would not oppose 
Allianz’s proposed acquisition of the general insurance business (RAAI) of the 
Royal Automobile Association of South Australia (RAA). The deal included a 20-
year exclusive distribution agreement allowing RAA to sell insurance 
underwritten by Allianz under the RAA brand. On 1 July 2025, Allianz completed 
its purchase of RAAI.  


  
Page 10 of 19  
• 
Northern Territory: The Automobile Association of Northern Territory (AANT) 
has a long-standing partnership with CGU Insurance (acquired by IAG in 2003), 
where AANT distributes CGU-brand insurance as an authorised representative 
on behalf of CGU. 
35. In Tasmania, in 2021 the Royal Automobile Club of Tasmania (RACT) acquired its 
insurance business back from Suncorp and now operates it independently. This follows 
a 50:50 joint venture which RACT had entered into with Suncorp in 2007, creating RACT 
Insurance Pty Ltd to underwrite home and contents insurance and motor insurance in 
Tasmania under the RACT brand. Suncorp sold its 50 per cent stake back to RACT Group 
with the transaction being completed in December 2021. 
Areas of overlap 
36. IAG and RACI both underwrite and supply the following insurance products in Western 
Australia: 
• 
home insurance, including home (building) insurance, contents insurance, 
combined home (building) and contents insurance and landlord insurance, and  
• 
motor insurance (excluding CTP insurance), including comprehensive car 
insurance, third party fire and theft, third party property insurance, caravan and 
trailer insurance, and motorcycle insurance including comprehensive, third-party 
fire and theft and third-party property damage.  
37. IAG and RACI also overlap in the acquisition of the following services: 
• 
smash repair services 
• 
windscreen repair and replacement services, and 
• 
building repair services. 
38. IAG and RACI also both supply travel insurance and small business insurance, however 
these do not form part of the Proposed Acquisition, as these parts of the business will 
remain with RAC. 
Future with and without the acquisition 
39. In assessing a proposed acquisition under section 50 of the CCA, the ACCC considers 
the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future state of competition if the 
acquisition proceeds (the ’with’ position) to the likely future state of competition if the 
acquisition does not proceed (the ‘without’ position) to determine whether the proposed 
acquisition is likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in any 
relevant market. 
40. The ACCC considers that the likely future competitive environment without the proposed 
acquisition would be the status quo. That is, RAC would continue to distribute motor 
insurance and home and contents insurance underwritten by RACI in Western Australia. 


  
Page 11 of 19  
Previous ACCC decisions 
IAG’s acquisition of RACQI 
41. On 22 May 2025, the ACCC decided not to oppose IAG’s proposed acquisition of RACQI 
from RACQ.  
42. The ACCC’s review considered the impact of the proposed acquisition on the supply of 
home and contents insurance and the supply of motor insurance, focusing on the level 
of competition provided by other existing insurance providers, how competitive RACQI 
was, and the likely impact of the acquisition on insurance prices, service offering, and 
coverage in Queensland. 
43. The ACCC found that alternative suppliers of home and contents insurance and motor 
insurance would continue to provide a competitive constraint on IAG after the 
acquisition, including Suncorp, Allianz, QBE, Youi, Auto & General, and Hollard. 
44. The ACCC’s investigation also found RACQI had not been a particularly vigorous 
competitor in recent times, with little product differentiation and higher prices than 
competitors and was unlikely to be a vigorous and effective competitor in the future. 
Allianz’s acquisition of RAAI 
45. On 12 June 2025, the ACCC decided not to oppose Allianz’s proposed acquisition of the 
RAAI. The ACCC found that other suppliers, in particular Suncorp, IAG, Auto & General 
and Youi, would continue to compete with, and constrain, a merged Allianz and RAAI 
after the acquisition, making the transaction unlikely to have the effect of substantially 
lessening competition. 
46. The ACCC also considered the impact of rising reinsurance, regulatory and compliance 
costs. The ACCC’s investigation found evidence that RAAI was facing specific 
challenges in relation to these costs meaning that it was unlikely to be as competitive as 
it had been previously. 
Issues of concern:  
- Horizontal unilateral effects in the supply of motor 
insurance in Western Australia and  
- Horizontal unilateral effects in the supply of home and 
contents insurance in Western Australia  
47. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is likely to have the effect 
of substantially lessening competition in the supply of (i) motor insurance and (ii) home 
and contents insurance in Western Australia because in both of these markets:  
• 
the Proposed Acquisition would increase concentration in already highly 
concentrated markets 


  
Page 12 of 19  
• 
RACI is a large and growing competitor that focusses on value for its customers, 
and competes closely with IAG, and the Proposed Acquisition would remove the 
significant competitive constraint IAG and RACI presently impose on each other 
• 
absent the Proposed Acquisition RACI is likely to continue to compete strongly in 
the supply of motor insurance and home and contents insurance in Western 
Australia, and  
• 
other existing insurers operating in Western Australia, and the threat of new entry 
or expansion, are unlikely to provide a sufficient competitive constraint on IAG 
post-acquisition.  
48. The ACCC is concerned that the Proposed Acquisition would enable IAG to profitably 
increase the prices and/or reduce the service quality of its existing brand and RACI 
brand product offerings in the supply of motor insurance and the supply of home and 
contents insurance.  
49. The ACCC considers that if the Proposed Acquisition substantially lessens competition 
in the supply of motor vehicle insurance or the supply of home and contents insurance, 
the Proposed Acquisition is also likely to substantially lessen competition in markets for 
the acquisition of motor vehicle repair services or the acquisition of home repair 
services, respectively. However, the ACCC considers that competitive harm in these 
upstream markets is unlikely to come about in the absence of a substantial lessening of 
competition in the corresponding downstream market for the supply of motor vehicle 
insurance or the supply of home and contents insurance. Therefore, the ACCC has not 
raised its concerns regarding these upstream markets independently in this Statement 
of Issues. 
Relevant markets  
50. The ACCC’s starting point for considering which markets will be affected by the 
Proposed Acquisition is to identify the areas of overlap between the products actually or 
potentially supplied by the merger parties. The ACCC then considers other actual or 
potential suppliers of those products, as well as what other products constitute 
sufficiently close substitutes to provide a significant source of constraint on the merged 
entity. 
Product dimension 
51. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that there are likely to be separate product markets for 
the supply of:  
• 
motor insurance, and  
• 
home and contents insurance.  
52. The ACCC’s preliminary view reflects both supply and demand side considerations. In 
particular:  
• 
There is no demand-side substitution between motor insurance and home and 
contents insurance.   
• 
Market feedback suggests that while insurers can add and expand product 
lines, insurers need claims data for a specific insurance product (e.g. home, 


  
Page 13 of 19  
motor) to accurately price risk, which means it takes significant time to be 
competitive when moving into the supply of an insurance product type even if 
the insurer already offers another product type. 
• 
Market feedback indicates that when insurers develop new product lines, it is 
typically from a base of motor insurance to home insurance and not vice-versa. 
Moving from motor insurance into home insurance is reportedly especially 
difficult, costly and time-consuming, as home insurance is significantly more 
capital intensive, involves more complex risk, and requires different and more 
complicated data to price premiums. 
53. Despite this preliminary view that the two products are likely to be in separate markets, 
as the competitive conditions and impacts of the Proposed Acquisition are similar in 
both downstream product markets, the ACCC considers it convenient to outline its 
preliminary competitive concerns regarding both markets together.  
Geographic dimension 
54. Given RACI exclusively supplies motor insurance and home and contents insurance in 
Western Australia, the existing geographic overlap between the parties is confined to 
that state. Accordingly, the ACCC has focused its review of the impact of the Proposed 
Acquisition on competition in Western Australia as a separate market or as a segment in 
a national market.  
Market concentration  
55. The supply of both motor insurance and home and contents insurance in Western 
Australia is highly concentrated, and the Proposed Acquisition would result in a 
significant increase in IAG’s market share in both product markets.  
56. RAC is the largest supplier of both motor insurance and home and contents insurance in 
Western Australia and has a significantly larger market share in each compared to any 
other insurer. IAG is the third largest motor insurer and the second largest home and 
contents insurer in Western Australia.  
57. The ACCC is concerned that the Proposed Acquisition would consolidate the market in 
Western Australia with a small number of large insurers, namely, IAG, Suncorp, and 
Allianz. Post merger, market share estimates show these large insurers would have 70 – 
80 per cent market share in home and contents and motor insurance in Western 
Australia insurance.  
58. Further, the ACCC is concerned that the merged entity would be considerably larger than 
other insurers, with a market shares of 60 – 70 per cent in motor insurance and 50 – 60 
per cent in home and contents insurance. 
59. The ACCC has calculated the Herfindahl-Hirschman Index (HHI) as a measure of market 
concentration. The ACCC considers that markets with an HHI greater than 2,000 are 
highly concentrated, and a change in HHI of more than 100 points is a significant 
increase in concentration.7 The ACCC estimates that: 
 
7 ACCC, Merger assessment guidelines 2025, paragraph 1.24 


  
Page 14 of 19  
• 
The post-acquisition HHI would be approximately 4,400 in the supply of motor 
insurance and approximately 3,200 in the supply of home and contents insurance in 
Western Australia.  
• 
The change in HHI in both motor insurance and home and contents insurance in 
Western Australia is very substantial.  
60. The increase in HHIs attributable to the Proposed Acquisition is one factor considered 
by the ACCC along with other factors such as closeness of competition and the 
effectiveness of rivals, given the differentiated nature of the insurance products offered. 
That said, given the market shares and positions of RACI and IAG, the ACCC considers it 
likely that these insurers compete closely for new and existing customers in motor 
insurance and home and contents insurance, and is concerned the Proposed 
Acquisition would remove the constraint these insurers impose on each other.  
RACI is a strong and growing competitor  
61. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that RACI is a strong and growing competitor in the 
supply of motor insurance and home and contents insurance in Western Australia.  
62. RACI is a highly trusted member-owned association that has a strong and positive 
reputation with customers. Market participants noted that RACI provides competitive 
pricing and a high quality, customer-focused service offering.  
63. RACI is the leading supplier of both motor insurance and home and contents insurance 
in Western Australia and has grown its market share strongly in both markets over the 
past five years, demonstrating its effectiveness as a competitor. For example, there are 
estimates that RACI has grown its market share in Western Australia from 
approximately 35% in 2019 to approximately 50% in 2024.8 
64. RACI’s high-quality customer service offering is reflected in CHOICE’s 2023 and 2025 
customer survey results, which show that RACI performed above average in both 
customer satisfaction and claims experience across home and motor insurance, 
consistently ranking among the top three or four insurers.9  Additionally, RACI has 
received Canstar’s award for ’Most Satisfied Customers‘ in motor insurance in Western 
Australia for seven consecutive years (2019 to 2025).10 
65. The ACCC is concerned that in removing a strong and growing competitor, the Proposed 
Acquisition may allow IAG to profitably increase the premiums and reduce the quality of 
both its current, and its acquired RACI-branded, product offerings in Western Australia.  
 
8  
According to research conducted by Jarden: Insurance News, Analysts warn IAG faces higher hurdle on RAC deal  (Web 
page) <https://www.insurancenews.com.au/corporate/analysts-warn-iag-faces-higher-hurdle-on-rac-deal>. 
9  
CHOICE, CHOICE car insurance survey: RAA car insurance takes out top spot again (Web page) 
<https://www.choice.com.au/money/insurance/car/articles/car-insurance-customer-satisfaction>; CHOICE, CHOICE 
home insurance survey: RACQ in top spot for customer experience again (Webpage) 
<https://www.choice.com.au/money/insurance/home-and contents/articles/home-insurer-satisfaction>; CHOICE, Allianz, 
NRMA, QBE, AAMI, GIO and Suncorp insurance compared (Webpage) 
<https://www.choice.com.au/money/insurance/insurance-advice/articles/allianz-nrma-qbe-aami-gio-and-suncorp-
insurance-compared>.  
10  
RAC, Comprehensive car insurance (Webpage) <https://rac.com.au/car-motoring/car-insurance/comprehensive>. 


  
Page 15 of 19  
66. In addition, one element of the ACCC’s concern is the change in business model of RACI 
from being part of a member-owned incorporated association, where insurance 
customers also become members, to being part of an ASX-listed corporation, and 
whether this could result in a change to the way RACI’s insurance products are supplied 
and priced. In particular, the ACCC is concerned that IAG could profitably increase the 
prices and/or reduce the service quality of its RACI branded products in excess of what 
would otherwise occur. An increase in price or reduction in the quality of the service 
provided with RACI branded products could, in turn, enable IAG to further increase the 
prices and/or reduce service quality of its IAG-branded products and lessen 
competition.   
Absent the Proposed Acquisition, RACI would continue to compete strongly in Western 
Australia 
67. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that RACI would continue to compete strongly in the 
supply of motor insurance and the supply of home and contents insurance in Western 
Australia absent the Proposed Acquisition.  
68. The ACCC understands that the insurance industry generally is facing challenges that 
could impact the profitability and competitiveness of insurers. These challenges include 
increasing regulatory and compliance costs, increasing claims volumes and expenses, 
rising reinsurance costs due to more extreme weather events, and the requirement to 
hold larger capital reserves for claims and natural disasters.  
69. The ACCC also understands that some state-based, mutual organisations have 
experienced heightened vulnerability to these challenges, because they are not able to 
diversify risk to the same extent as national (or international) insurers and have a more 
limited ability to raise capital than non-mutual insurers.  
70. However, as set out above, RACI is the largest supplier of motor insurance and home 
and contents insurance in Western Australia by a significant margin. Importantly, while 
the insurance industry has faced challenges for a number of years, RACI has been able 
to grow its market share and also remain profitable in the supply of insurance during 
that time.11 RACI also has a highly trusted brand and a strong and positive reputation in 
Western Australia.   
71. As such, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that, in the absence of the Proposed Acquisition, 
RACI is likely to continue to compete strongly in the supply of both motor insurance and 
home and contents insurance in Western Australia.   
Post-acquisition, IAG is unlikely to be sufficiently constrained by rival insurers  
72. Several insurers in addition to IAG and RACI provide motor insurance and home and 
contents insurance in Western Australia. These insurers include established insurers 
Suncorp, Allianz and QBE, and mid-tier insurers Auto & General, Youi and Hollard. 
73.  However, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that these insurers are unlikely to provide a 
sufficient competitive constraint on IAG post-acquisition in Western Australia.  
 
11  
RAC, Annual Concise Report, 2023-2024, (Report, 2024). 


  
Page 16 of 19  
74. In particular, the ACCC’s investigation to date suggests that established insurers have 
struggled to build and maintain market share, and that mid-tier insurers (such as Auto & 
General and Youi) have struggled to gain material market share, in Western Australia. 
This is in contrast to the position of established insurers in other Australian states, as 
well as the growth mid-tier insurers have achieved in other states. This lack of market 
share and growth appears to be due to the strong competitive position of RACI, 
including its high levels of brand awareness and customer loyalty.  
75. Another factor influencing their low levels of growth, which the ACCC is continuing to 
consider, may be that mid-tier brands face difficulties accessing repair services due to 
the strength of RACI as an acquirer of those services. This factor is explored further in 
the ‘issue that may raise concerns’ below. 
Post-acquisition, IAG is unlikely to be sufficiently constrained by the threat of new entry or 
expansion  
76. The ACCC considers there is a low likelihood of timely new entry or expansion on a 
sufficient scale in Western Australia to constrain IAG post-acquisition from significantly 
raising the prices or worsening the quality or terms of its own and its RACI-branded 
insurance products.  
77. Barriers identified include significant capital requirements, high sunk costs, licensing 
timeframes, strict regulatory obligations, brand loyalty, and limited access to repair 
services networks and skilled employees.  
78. There have been few genuine new entrants to the supply of motor insurance or home 
and contents insurance in Australia in recent years (with the most recent successful 
new entries being Youi into motor insurance in 2008 and home and contents insurance 
in 2009, and Sure Insurance into home and contents insurance in regional Queensland in 
2019), and the ACCC has not been able to identify any examples of likely new entrants 
able to provide a sufficient constraint on IAG in a timely manner.  
Questions for market participants  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants regarding (i) competition in the 
supply of motor insurance in Western Australia and (ii) competition in the supply of home 
and contents insurance in Western Australia. In particular, market participants may wish to 
comment on the following:  
• 
whether there are particular features of the motor insurance and/or home and 
contents insurance markets in Western Australia and/or certain areas of Western 
Australia, which differ compared to the rest of Australia 
• 
how closely IAG and RACI compete in Western Australia  
• 
how effective a competitor RACI is in Western Australia, and on what factors it 
competes most strongly (e.g. price, service quality, coverage, etc), and on what 
factors it does not compete strongly 
• 
the challenges being faced by the insurance industry and the impact this could have 
on insurers and insurance products, including whether RACI is likely to experience 


  
Page 17 of 19  
heightened vulnerability to these challenges as a state-based, mutual organisation, 
and   
• 
the competitive constraint that established insurers and mid-tier insurers are likely 
to impose on the merged IAG/RACI in Western Australia, including the constraint 
provided by those which have a larger market share outside of Western Australia.  
Issue that may raise concerns: foreclosure of competing 
suppliers of motor insurance and competing suppliers of 
home and contents insurance in Western Australia 
79. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition may have the effect of 
substantially lessening competition in the supply of (i) motor insurance and (ii) home 
and contents insurance in Western Australia and/or certain regions of Western Australia 
by also providing IAG with the ability and incentive to foreclose or partially foreclose 
competing insurers’ access to repair services.  
80. This may occur through IAG using its increased bargaining power to obtain preferential 
terms and/or partial or full exclusivity from repairers, thereby restricting rival insurers’ 
access to repairers and/or raising rival insurers’ costs of acquiring repair services in 
Western Australia or lowering the quality of service they can obtain. This would weaken 
rivals’ ability to impose a sufficient competitive constraint in the supply of motor and/or 
home and contents insurance in Western Australia. 
Relevant markets  
81. The ACCC considers there are likely to be separate markets for the acquisition of smash 
repair and windscreen repair and replacement services (for motor insurance) and 
building repair services (for home and contents insurance) due to a lack of 
substitutability between these different types of repair service.  
82. Similar to the reasons set out above, the ACCC has focused the review on the impact of 
the Proposed Acquisition on competition in Western Australia. However, to the extent 
that motor and/or home repairers operate nationally, anticompetitive effects from the 
merged entity’s exercise of increased bargaining power may extend beyond Western 
Australia to the rest of the country. 
Ability and incentive to foreclose   
83. As set out above, the Proposed Acquisition would result in IAG having shares of 60 – 70 
per cent in motor insurance and 50 – 60 per cent in home and contents insurance in 
Western Australia and being significantly larger than its competitors in both markets.  
84. As such, post-acquisition, IAG would likely be the largest acquirer of smash repair, 
windscreen replacement and repair, and home repair services in Western Australia by a 
considerable margin. It may therefore have an increased ability to secure more 
favourable commercial terms from repair providers, including partial or full exclusivity.  


  
Page 18 of 19  
85. Market participants have expressed concern that IAG would have the incentive to 
leverage its increased bargaining power to negotiate exclusive, reserved, or priority 
access to repair services in Western Australia or certain regions in the state. Further, 
even absent formal contractual arrangements, market feedback indicates that repairers 
naturally prioritise work from larger insurers who can offer consistent, high-volume 
referrals. 
86. Market feedback indicates that the merged entity’s ability to engage in such conduct 
may be strengthened in capacity constrained areas where repairers are more dependent 
on large insurers for work and where insurers’ repairer options are limited, including in in 
regional areas such as Geraldton, Busselton, Bunbury, Karratha, Broome, and Exmouth. 
87. The ACCC is concerned that such conduct could effectively restrict rival insurers from 
accessing efficient repair services, and/or increase rival insurers’ costs or lower the 
quality and timeliness of repair services available to them.  
88. Market participants have most strongly expressed concerns in relation to the acquisition 
of smash repair services, however the ACCC is also continuing to consider the impact of 
the Proposed Acquisition on windscreen repair and replacement services and building 
repair services. 
Effect of foreclosure 
89. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the foreclosure of rival insurers’ access to repair 
services post-acquisition may have the effect of substantially lessening competition in 
each of the supply of motor insurance and the supply of home and contents insurance 
in Western Australia independent of the horizontal effects that may arise as a result of 
the aggregation in the parties’ supply of insurance. 
90. Access to efficient and timely repair services is an essential input for claims fulfilment in 
the supply of motor insurance and home and contents insurance. Market participants 
have expressed concern that rival insurers, particularly mid-tier brands, may have fewer 
options to access viable claims fulfilment channels post-acquisition, and that reduced, 
inferior, or higher-cost access to these services would weaken an insurer’s ability to 
compete in the downstream market. 
91. In particular, the ACCC is concerned that such foreclosure conduct could: 
• 
raise rivals’ costs of claims fulfilment and reduce their ability to compete on 
price and service (including in relation to repair times) in the supply of insurance 
• 
force smaller rival insurers to exit Western Australia or certain regions in Western 
Australia 
• 
deter entry or expansion of rival insurers in Western Australia or certain regions 
in Western Australia 
• 
enable the merged entity to profitably increase premiums because its 
competitive constraints had softened, and 
• 
entrench the merged entity’s dominant market position in the supply of home 
and contents insurance and motor insurance. 


  
Page 19 of 19  
92. For consumers, particularly in regional Western Australia, these effects may result in 
reduced availability of nearby repair options, longer repair wait times, and lower claims 
satisfaction. Over time, this may increase premiums and worsen service offerings for 
Western Australian consumers. 
Questions for market participants  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants regarding the risk of foreclosure of 
competing personal lines general insurance suppliers in Western Australia. In particular, 
market participants may wish to comment on the following:   
• 
any regions in Western Australia where smash repair, windscreen repair and 
replacement services, and building repair services are limited or capacity 
constrained 
• 
the degree to which contractual arrangements with repairers provide for 
exclusivity or priority access 
• 
the extent to which repairers in practice prioritise work from larger insurers 
• 
the extent to which the merged entity would be in an enhanced position to 
foreclose or frustrate competing insurers' access to each of (i) smash repair 
services, (ii) windscreen repair and replacement services, and (iii) building repair 
services 
• 
the incentives for the merged entity to exercise its increased bargaining power 
with respect to repairers to obtain exclusive, reserved or priority access to repair 
services in Western Australia or certain regions in the state 
• 
the likely effect of any foreclosure strategies, including the extent to which rival 
insurers would become less vigorous competitors in the downstream supply of 
home and contents insurance and motor insurance.  
ACCC's future steps  
93. As noted above, the ACCC invites submissions from market participants on each of the 
issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that may be 
relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. Submissions should be emailed to 
mergers@accc.gov.au by no later than 5pm on 18 September 2025.  
94. The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions invited by 
this Statement of Issues.  
95. The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 27 November 2025. However 
the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Informal Merger Review Process 
Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment explaining the ACCC's final view may be 
published following the ACCC's public announcement.  
