1 
 
 
 
 
 
Our ref: IM-72966 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18 June 2025 
 
 
 
Dear Interested Party 
Re: ACCC seeking your views: IAG’s Proposed Acquisition of RACI 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
the proposed acquisition of the Royal Automobile Club of WA Inc’s (RAC) general insurance 
business through the acquisition of RAC Insurance Pty Limited (RACI) by Insurance Australia 
Group Limited (IAG) (the Proposed Acquisition). 
IAG and RACI both provide personal lines general insurance, including home and contents 
and motor insurance. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact of the Proposed Acquisition on 
competition in Australia and, in particular, in Western Australia. In particular, we are seeking 
your views on: 
• 
how closely IAG and RACI compete in the supply of personal lines general 
insurance 
• 
the extent to which alternative suppliers of personal lines home and contents and 
motor insurance would competitively constrain the merged entity 
• 
the likely impact of the Proposed Acquisition on prices and quality of personal 
lines home and contents and motor insurance products 
• 
the likely impact of IAG’s increased scale on the acquisition of ancillary repair 
services, including the impact on prices or terms of supply for suppliers. 
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B. 
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test the ACCC applies when assessing mergers and acquisitions is in section 50 of 
the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are likely to 
have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
Please provide your response by 2 July 2025 via email to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: 
Submission re: IAG - RACI. If you require more time to respond, please let us know. 
If you would like to arrange a time to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any 
questions about this letter, please contact mergers@accc.gov.au. 


2 
 
 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public Mergers 
Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
 
 
 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
 
 
 
Morag Bond 
General Manager 
Merger Investigations 
Mergers Exemptions Assessment Division  
 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We will not 
disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by 
law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or during court proceedings) or in 
accordance with s155AAA of the CCA. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where possible so that you may have an 
opportunity to be heard. Therefore, if the information provided to the ACCC is of a 
confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our Informal Merger Review Process 
Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality 


3 
 
 
Attachment A – Overview of the merger parties and the Proposed Acquisition 
IAG 
IAG is an ASX-listed (ASX: IAG) general insurance company operating in Australia and New 
Zealand. 
In Australia, IAG provides a range of personal and commercial insurance products directly 
under various owned brands, including NRMA Insurance, Swann Insurance, ROLLiN’, Cylo 
and Lumley Special Vehicles. 
Through its joint venture business, Insurance Manufacturers of Australia Pty Limited (IMA), 
IAG also issues personal lines insurance in Victoria distributed by its joint venture partner 
Royal Automobile Club of Victoria (RACV). 
IAG also provides intermediated insurance through brokers, authorised financial 
representatives, institutions and agents under the CGU and WFI brands. 
IAG also underwrites insurance products distributed by financial institutions under their own 
brands, including Bendigo and Adelaide Bank, People’s Choice Bank and, since 2023, ANZ 
Bank. 
The ACCC recently decided not to oppose IAG’s proposed acquisition of RACQ Insurance 
Limited (RACQI) from The Royal Automobile Club of Queensland Limited (RACQ). 
 
RAC 
RAC is an Australian-based, member-owned organisation that offers roadside products, 
general insurance products, and other ancillary services to its members. The Proposed 
Acquisition only includes RAC’s motor insurance and home and contents insurance 
business and does not include RAC’s membership-based business, which includes the 
Club, its roadside assistance business and its other businesses. 
RACI underwrites home, contents and motor insurance. 
All of RACI’s products are distributed through the RAC network via call centres, physical 
branches (all of which are located in Western Australia) and the RAC website. 
 
Areas of overlap 
IAG and RACI overlap in the supply of personal lines general insurance, including home and 
contents and motor insurance, in Western Australia. 
 
The Proposed Acquisition 
IAG is proposing to acquire 100% of the shares in RACI and enter into a 20-year agreement for 
RAC to exclusively distribute insurance products underwritten by IAG under the RAC brand. 
 
 
 


4 
 
 
Attachment B – List of questions 
1. To better understand your views, describe your business or organisation and explain 
your interest in the Proposed Acquisition, including any commercial relationship(s) with 
IAG, RAC or RACI. 
Relevant markets 
2. The ACCC proposes to consider the impact of the Proposed Acquisition on: 
a. the supply of home and contents insurance in Western Australia and Australia 
b. the supply of motor insurance in Western Australia and Australia 
c. the acquisition of repair services (smash repair services, windscreen repair and 
replacement services, and home repair services) in Western Australia and 
Australia. 
The ACCC seeks your views on whether the ACCC should consider other markets (or 
differently defined markets) as part of its analysis. 
Home and contents and motor insurance 
3. Describe how closely IAG and RACI compete with one another in the supply of home 
and contents insurance and motor insurance in terms of price, coverage and/or other 
aspects of their competitive offering. Please also indicate whether you consider IAG 
and RACI to be each other’s closest competitor for any lines of insurance in Western 
Australia. 
4. Describe the current nature and level of competition between IAG and RAC and other 
providers of personal lines general insurance in Australia and Western Australia. If 
possible, indicate: 
a. the key competitors to IAG and RACI, particularly for home and contents and 
motor insurance 
b. estimated market shares (broken down by insurance line if possible) in Australia 
and Western Australia and how these market shares have changed over time 
c. whether IAG and/or RACI have a reputation for being particularly innovative or 
aggressive competitors, including the extent to which either or both offer lower 
premiums, wider coverage or superior service, compared to their competitors 
d. whether competitors have the ability to expand their insurance offering, 
particularly by moving into insuring different risk types or asset classes. 
5. Explain the extent to which competing suppliers of home and contents and motor 
insurance would prevent the merged IAG/RACI from increasing premiums, reducing 
coverage, reducing its product range, or diminishing the service provided. 
6. Please comment on the role that insurance brokers and other intermediaries may play in 
the supply of home and contents and motor insurance. 
Entry and expansion 
7. Identify any recent or upcoming examples of entry or exit in the supply of home and 
contents or motor insurance in Australia. 
8. Outline the barriers to entering the supply of home and contents and/or motor insurance 
in Australia and likelihood of new entry. Please comment on whether there are any 
specific barriers impacting the likelihood of entry or expansion into the supply of home 
and contents insurance or motor insurance in Western Australia. 


5 
 
 
Ancillary repair services 
9. Describe how closely IAG and RACI compete with one another, and other companies, in 
the acquisition of ancillary repair services, including smash repairs, windscreen repairs 
and replacements, and building repairs. 
10. Would the merged entity be able to reduce the prices or otherwise degrade the terms on 
which it acquires ancillary repair services? Please explain why you consider the merged 
entity would (or would not) be able to do this, including whether competition from other 
insurers would prevent the merged entity from doing so. 
Other information and competition issues 
11. Provide any additional information or comments that you consider relevant to the ACCC’s 
consideration of the Proposed Acquisition. 
