 
 
 
 
Land of the Ngunnawal people
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
Tel 02 6243 1111 
Fax 02 6243 1199
www.accc.gov.au
Information Security Classification - INTERNAL 
Our ref: IM-72804 
 
31 January 2025 
Dear Interested Party 
Re: ACCC seeking your views: IAG’s proposed acquisition of RACQI  
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
the proposed acquisition of RACQ Insurance Limited (RACQI) by Insurance Australia Group 
Limited (IAG) (the Proposed Acquisition). 
IAG and RACQI both provide personal lines general insurance, including home, contents 
and motor vehicle insurance, and acquire ancillary repair services, including smash repair 
services, windscreen repair and replacement services, and building repair services.  
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact of the Proposed Acquisition on 
competition in Australia. In particular, we are seeking your views on: 
• 
how closely IAG and RACQI compete in the supply of personal lines general 
insurance and the acquisition of ancillary repair services 
• 
the extent to which alternative suppliers of personal lines of general insurance or 
acquirers of ancillary repair services will competitively constrain the merged entity 
• 
the likely impact of the Proposed Acquisition on prices and quality of personal lines 
insurance products 
• 
the likely impact of IAG’s increased scale on the acquisition of ancillary repair 
services, including the impact on prices or terms of supply for suppliers. 
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B. 
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test the ACCC applies when assessing mergers and acquisitions is in section 50 of 
the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are likely to 
have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market.  
Please provide your response by 14 February 2025 via email to mergers@accc.gov.au with 
the title: Submission re: IAG - RACQI. If you require more time to respond, please let us 
know. 
If you would like to arrange a time to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any 
questions about this letter, please contact mergers@accc.gov.au.  


 
 
 
 
Information Security Classification - INTERNAL 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public Mergers 
Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We will not 
disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by 
law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or during court proceedings) or in 
accordance with s155AAA of the CCA. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where possible so that you may have an 
opportunity to be heard. Therefore, if the information provided to the ACCC is of a 
confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our Informal Merger Review Process 
Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
Simon Pomery 
Acting General Manager  
Merger Investigations


 
 
 
3 
 
Information Security Classification - INTERNAL 
Attachment A – Overview of the merger parties and the Proposed Acquisition 
IAG 
IAG is an ASX-listed (ASX: IAG) general insurance company operating in Australia and New 
Zealand.  
In Australia, IAG provides a range of personal and commercial insurance products directly 
under various owned brands, including NRMA Insurance, Swann Insurance, ROLLiN’, Cylo 
and Lumley Special Vehicles.  
Through its joint venture business, Insurance Manufacturers of Australia Pty Limited (IMA), 
IAG also issues personal lines insurance in Victoria distributed by its joint venture partner 
Royal Automobile Club of Victoria (RACV).  
IAG also provides intermediated insurance through brokers, authorised financial 
representatives, institutions and agents under the CGU and WFI brands.  
IAG also underwrites insurance products distributed by financial institutions under their own 
brands, including Bendigo and Adelaide Bank, People’s Choice Bank and, since 2023, ANZ 
Bank.  
RACQ 
The Royal Automobile Club of Queensland Limited (RACQ) is a Queensland based 
member-owned organisation that provides roadside assistance, insurance, banking and 
member/community services. The Proposed Acquisition only includes RACQ’s insurance 
business, which is provided through RACQI, and does not include RACQ’s membership-
based business, which includes its roadside assistance business.  
RACQ, through RACQI issues general insurance products, (including home, motor, boat, 
caravan, motorcycle, RV and others) to customers through its wholly owned subsidiary 
RACQI.  
RACQ also supplies travel insurance products through its wholly owned subsidiary RACQ 
Operations Pty Ltd under distribution agreements where the products are issued by third-
parties.  
RACQI has certain third-party distribution arrangements, under which products underwritten 
by RACQI are distributed under different brands, including Honey Insurance and RACWA 
(pet insurance only). 
Areas of overlap 
IAG and RACQI overlap in the supply of personal lines general insurance, including home 
insurance and motor insurance.  
They also provide or acquire some ancillary motor services including repair services, smash 
repairs windscreen repairs and replacements services and building repair services. 
The Proposed Acquisition 
IAG proposes to acquire 90% of the shares in RACQI from RACQ at completion of the 
Proposed Transaction and has an option to acquire the additional 10% from two years after 
completion of the Proposed Transaction.    


 
 
 
4 
 
Information Security Classification - INTERNAL 
Attachment B – List of questions 
1. To better understand your views, describe your business or organisation and explain 
your interest in the Proposed Acquisition, including any commercial relationship(s) with 
IAG or RACQ. 
Relevant markets 
2. The ACCC’s is considering which markets are most relevant to assess the competition 
effects of the Proposed Acquisition. The ACCC is considering whether the relevant 
markets are:  
(a) personal lines general insurance or separate markets for each of home, contents 
and motor insurance  
(b) national or Queensland markets for personal lines general insurance or each of 
home, contents and motor insurance.  
(c) national or Queensland markets for each of smash repairs, windscreen repairs 
and replacements, and building repairs.  
The ACCC seeks your views on which markets set out above are most relevant to 
assess the Proposed Acquisition, and also whether the ACCC should consider other 
markets (or differently defined markets) as part of its analysis. 
In particular, the ACCC seeks your views on whether Queensland should be considered 
as a separate geographic market for the supply of home, contents and motor insurance.     
Personal lines general insurance 
3. Describe how closely IAG and RACQI compete with one another in the supply of 
personal lines general insurance, particularly home, contents and motor vehicle 
insurance. Please also indicate whether you consider that IAG and RACQI are each 
other’s closest competitors for any lines of insurance.  
4. Describe the current nature and level of competition between IAG and RACQI and other 
providers of person lines general insurance in Australia. If possible, indicate: 
(a) the key competitors to IAG and RACQI, particularly for home, contents and motor 
insurance 
(b) estimated market shares (broken down by insurance line if possible)  
(c) whether IAG and/or RACQI (including through their various brands) have a 
reputation for being particularly low priced, innovative or aggressive competitors 
(d) the extent to which products provided by other insurers are substitutable for 
products provided by IAG and RACQI 
(e) whether competitors have the ability to expand their insurance offering, 
particularly by moving into insuring different risk types or asset classes; and 
5. Explain the extent to which competing suppliers of personal lines of general insurance 
(including home, contents and motor insurance) would be able to deter the merged 
IAG/RACQI from increasing prices, reducing its product range, or diminishing the quality 
of its products.  
6. Please comment on the role that insurance brokers and other intermediaries play in the 
industry. In particular, discuss whether the threat of these intermediaries directing 
consumers towards a different insurer’s product could prevent the merged entity from 
imposing a significant increase in premiums. 
 


 
 
 
5 
 
Information Security Classification - INTERNAL 
Entry and expansion 
7. Identify any recent or upcoming examples or entry or exit in the supply of personal lines 
of general insurance in Australia. 
8. Outline the barriers to entering the supply of personal lines of general insurance in 
Australia. In your response, you may wish to comment on: 
(a) capital costs and length of time necessary for entry 
(b) economies of scale 
(c) branding 
(d) the ease with which customers can switch insurance providers 
(e) any regulatory barriers 
(f) any other barriers to entry. 
9. Discuss how readily a supplier of other types of insurance could expand into the supply 
of personal lines of general insurance in Australia.  
Ancillary repair services 
10. Describe how closely IAG and RACQI compete with one another, and other companies, 
in the acquisition of ancillary repair services, including smash repairs, including smash 
repairs, windscreen repairs and replacements, and building repairs.  
11. Would the merged entity be likely to have the ability and incentive to reduce the prices or 
otherwise degrade the terms on which it acquires ancillary repair services. Please 
explain why you consider that the merged entity would (or would not) have such an ability 
or incentive, including whether competition from other insurers would be sufficiently 
strong to prevent the merged entity from doing so.  
Other information and competition issues 
12. Provide any additional information or comments that you consider relevant to the ACCC’s 
consideration of the Proposed Acquisition. 
 
