 
 
 
 
16 October 2009  
 
Statement of Issues — Woolworths Limited/Lowe’s 
Companies, Inc. - proposed acquisition of Danks Holdings 
Limited 
 
1. 
Outlined below is the Statement of Issues released by the Australian 
Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) in relation to the proposed 
acquisition of Danks Holdings Limited (Danks) by a joint venture between 
Woolworths Limited (Woolworths) and Lowe’s Companies, Inc. (Lowe’s) 
(proposed acquisition).  
2. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well 
as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
3. 
In line with the ACCC’s Merger Review Process Guidelines (available on the 
ACCC’s website at www.accc.gov.au) the ACCC has established a secondary 
timeline for further consideration of the issues. The ACCC anticipates 
completing further market inquiries by 23 October 2009 and anticipates making 
a final decision by 11 November 2009. However, the anticipated timeline can 
change in line with the Merger Review Process Guidelines. To keep abreast of 
possible changes in relation to timing and to find relevant documents, visit the 
Mergers Register on the ACCC's website at www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
4. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties 
(including customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to 
ascertain and consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also 
intended to provide the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis 
for making further submissions. 
Background  
5. 
On 3 September 2009, the ACCC commenced its review of the proposed 
acquisition.  
6. 
The proposed acquisition forms part of Woolworths’ broader plans to enter the 
hardware and home improvement sector. Woolworths has entered into a joint 
venture with United States-based home improvement retailer Lowe’s to 
undertake the acquisition of Danks and establish a network of at least 150 
company-owned ‘big box’ home improvement stores in Australia.  


The parties 
Woolworths Limited 
7. 
Woolworths is a large Australian retailer whose businesses include the Big W 
chain of discount department stores, Woolworths and Safeway supermarkets, as 
well as electronics, liquor and petrol retailing chains. Woolworths currently has 
a limited presence in the hardware and home improvement sector; it supplies a 
range of hardware products in its Big W discount department stores and a 
smaller range in its supermarkets. 
Lowe’s Companies, Inc. 
8. 
Lowe’s is a large US-based hardware and home improvement retailer with over 
1,600 large format ‘big box’ stores of approximately 10,000m2 each. Lowe’s 
has no Australian operations at present. 
Danks Holdings Limited 
9. 
Danks’ principal business is the wholesale distribution of hardware products and 
related services to independently owned and operated1 hardware retailers 
including Danks member stores and other non-affiliated stores.  
10. 
Danks’ members operate stores under the banners of “Home Timber and 
Hardware”, “Thrifty -Link Hardware” and “Plants Plus Garden Centres”. In 
addition to supplying them with a wide range of products, Danks provides its 
members marketing and promotional services, retail support services and 
financial benefits (e.g. rebates) which are derived from the group’s buying 
power with suppliers. Members pay fees to Danks in return for these services. 
11. 
There are over 500 Danks members and over 900 (non-member) independent 
hardware retailers supplied by Danks. Both the member and non-member stores 
supplied by Danks are generally small to medium format stores (not ‘big box’ 
stores). 
12. 
Danks’ stores account for approximately 15% of revenue generated by hardware 
retailing in Australia.2  
Other industry participants  
Bunnings  
13. 
Bunnings is a large retailer of hardware and home improvement products, 
operating 160 warehouse stores and 32 small format stores in Australia.  
14. 
Bunnings is part of the Wesfarmers Group, an ASX-listed Australian company 
with business activities across a range of industries. In addition to hardware and 
home improvement, the Wesfarmers Group operates supermarkets, liquor 
stores, discount department stores and office supply stores.  
15. 
Wesfarmers, primarily through Bunnings, accounts for approximately 50% of 
revenue generated by hardware retailing in Australia.3  
                                                 
1 There is also one company-owned store in Katoomba, NSW. 
2 IbisWorld – Hardware Retailing in Australia, June 2008. This figure is provided as an indication of 
the relative size of Danks stores in comparison to other key industry participants and should not be 
interpreted as Danks’ market share in any relevant market. 


Mitre 10 
16. 
Mitre 10 has a branded network of over 400 member stores throughout Australia 
which operate under the Mitre 10 and True Value Hardware brands. Mitre 10’s 
business is similar to that of Danks. It provides wholesale supplies to member 
stores and some other non-affiliated retailers. Stores supplied by Mitre 10 are 
generally small to medium format hardware stores. Some stores are company 
owned and operated and others are independently owned and operated.  
17. 
Mitre 10 accounts for approximately 12% of revenue generated by hardware 
retailing in Australia.4  
Smaller chains and independents that are not part of banner groups 
18. 
In addition to the above retailers and wholesalers, there are a number of smaller 
chains of hardware and home improvement stores that tend to be regionally 
based. Examples include Dahlsens and Magnet Mart. There are also many 
independent hardware stores which are not members of any banner group.  
Retail formats 
 
19. 
In Australia, there are a range of hardware and home improvement retail store 
formats.  
20. 
Generalist hardware stores offer a range of hardware and home improvement 
products from several categories. These include ‘big box’ stores, which are 
large, free-standing, warehouse style destination5 stores such as those operated 
by Bunnings, medium format hardware stores including many Home Hardware 
and Mitre 10 Stores, and smaller format convenience stores including Thrifty-
Link stores.  
21. 
Specialist stores tend to concentrate on a segment or product category of 
hardware, home improvement or garden products. Examples include Reece and 
Tradelink (both specialists in plumbing and bathroom products). In addition to 
hardware-focussed retail stores, some retailers offer a select range of hardware 
products as part of a broader retail offering (e.g. Big W, K Mart, Go-Lo). 
22. 
Hardware and home improvement retail stores can be corporate owned (i.e. part 
of a chain of retail outlets which are commonly owned and operated), member 
stores (i.e. part of a group of stores that operate under a common banner name, 
but are independently owned and operated), or operate independently of any 
member group. Stores compete primarily on the basis of a total product/service 
offer; this includes such factors as the store’s range of products, prices, service 
and advice levels, and convenience of location and opening hours. The degree 
of emphasis placed on each of these factors may differ depending on the store 
itself, the format of the store and the target customer. 
 
                                                                                                                                            
3 IbisWorld – Hardware Retailing in Australia, June 2008. This figure is provided as an indication of 
the relative size of Bunnings in comparison to other key industry participants and should not be 
interpreted as Bunnings’ market share in any relevant market. 
4 IbisWorld – Hardware Retailing in Australia, June 2008. This figure is provided as an indication of 
the relative size of Mitre 10 in comparison to other key industry participants and should not be 
interpreted as Mitre 10’s market share in any relevant market. 
5 A destination store is one that customers will initiate a trip specifically to visit. 


Wholesale supply 
23. 
Some hardware chains, such as Bunnings, are vertically integrated; they conduct 
their own wholesale operations using their own warehouse and distribution 
networks. They obtain some products via direct to store delivery.  
24. 
Other retailers most commonly obtain their stock through wholesalers, buying 
groups, direct from manufacturers, or from a combination of these sources. 
25. 
Wholesalers act as an intermediary between manufacturers and retailers. The 
two large independent wholesalers, Danks and Mitre 10, supply independent 
retailers (both members and non-members) with a broad range of products. 
Some of these products are supplied through the wholesaler’s warehouse and 
distribution service, while others are supplied directly from manufacturers 
through the use of a charge back system operated by the wholesaler. 
26. 
In addition to wholesalers, there are also a number of buying groups, who 
negotiate on behalf of members to obtain volume discounts from suppliers for 
certain products or product categories. Members of buying groups generally 
purchase products directly from suppliers on the basis of general terms 
negotiated through the buying group. Examples of buying groups are National 
Building Suppliers Group (Natbuild) and Hardware and Building Traders 
(HBT). Some retail stores are members of a buying group in addition to 
obtaining most of their supply from a wholesale supplier such as Danks. For 
example, they may obtain tools and other hardware products from the Danks 
warehouse, and timber direct from a supplier on terms negotiated by HBT. 
27. 
Some retailers obtain products directly from manufacturers, although in most 
cases this is done only for a relatively small proportion of the products the 
retailer buys. Manufacturers generally set minimum order requirements (either 
by quantity or value). 
Market inquiries 
28. 
On 8 September 2009, the ACCC commenced market inquiries regarding the 
proposed acquisition. A range of industry participants were consulted including 
wholesale suppliers; manufacturers; retailers including independent stores, 
banner group members and company-owned retailers. 
Market definition  
29. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the competitive effects of the proposed 
acquisition should be assessed in the context of the following markets: 
• local markets for the retail supply of the following categories of hardware 
and home improvement products together with a related service offering to 
do-it-yourself (DIY) and trade customers: 
i. tools and hardware 
ii. bathroom and kitchen materials 
iii. plumbing supplies 
iv. paint and decoration 
v. garden supplies 


vi. timber and building supplies 
vii. lighting and electrical 
viii. outdoor living 
ix. flooring 
x. storage and organisation 
xi. window furnishing. 
• regional markets for the wholesale supply of the above products to retailers. 
Retail markets 
Product markets 
30. 
Different retail stores seek to attract customers via their total product/service 
offering. The total product/service offering includes the range of products the 
retailer brings together in one place for the customer as well as the services it 
provides, such as specialist advice, delivery and convenient payment methods 
(e.g. trade accounts). Different retailers put varying degrees of emphasis on each 
of these factors.  
31. 
The ACCC’s inquiries indicate that while stores of similar formats (e.g. two 
‘big box’ stores) are each other’s closest competitors, there is also competition 
between generalist hardware stores of different formats (e.g. a medium sized 
Home Hardware store and a Bunnings warehouse) and between generalists and 
specialists (e.g. Mitre 10 and Reece stores compete for bathroom product sales). 
32. 
The total product/service offering differs between stores and chains, but it also 
differs markedly between different store formats, and this influences the 
closeness of competition between stores of different formats. In this sense, 
while there is competition between retailers of different formats, Bunnings is 
likely to be the closest competitor to Woolworths’ retail stores because of the 
relative closeness of their ‘big box’ offerings. 
DIY vs trade customers 
 
33. 
The ACCC has considered whether separate markets exist for retail sales to DIY 
and trade customers. 
34. 
While industry participants do draw a distinction between DIY and trade 
customers based on their different buying habits (for example, whether they use 
trade accounts), there is a degree of overlap between the products they buy. The 
ACCC’s preliminary view is that these two categories of customers are not 
sufficiently differentiated to be in different markets, but the differences between 
them may mean that any competition effects of the transaction affect them 
differently.   
35. 
While customers’ preferences and expectations vary between individuals and 
also depend on the purpose of a customer’s shopping trip, the ACCC’s inquiries 
indicate that, broadly speaking, DIY customers value the ability to shop from a 
range of products at competitive prices with a degree of personalised service. In 
comparison, trade customers are time sensitive, valuing consistently prompt 
service, the ability to open a trade account or gain store credit, reliability of 
supply and delivery of products to the worksite if required.  


36. 
The ACCC’s inquiries also indicate that compared with DIY customers, trade 
customers are more likely to use specialist hardware retailers in addition to, or 
as substitutes for, generalist hardware stores such as Bunnings, Mitre 10 and 
Danks banner stores. Bulk purchases are more common amongst trade 
customers, and purchases are skewed towards timber and building materials. 
However, despite the fact that trade customers regularly purchase products from 
specialist suppliers and directly from manufactures, some trade customers also 
value the ability to purchase a range of products from one store offered by ‘big 
box’ and larger format stores. 
Geographic scope  
37. 
On the basis of its inquiries to date, the ACCC has found that competition for 
the retail sale of hardware and home improvement products occurs in local 
markets. Most customers prefer to shop at stores within close proximity to their 
homes, which means that the range of stores which they consider to be close 
substitutes are generally those within a relatively short driving distance from 
their homes. The ACCC’s inquiries suggest the scope of the local markets in 
regional areas is likely to be somewhat larger, since customers are better able 
and more willing to travel further for these products than in more congested 
metropolitan areas. 
Wholesale markets 
Product market 
38. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that there are regional markets for the 
wholesale supply of hardware and home improvement products to retailers. 
Wholesale supply includes supply via wholesalers’ warehouses and supply 
direct from manufacturers through the use of a wholesaler’s charge back system. 
39. 
Vertically integrated wholesalers who also operate retail stores (e.g. Bunnings) 
form part of this market, as do independent wholesalers with no retail stores. 
While vertically integrated wholesalers like Bunnings do not compete to supply 
independent retailers, the prices charged by wholesalers like Danks and Mitre 
10 to independent retailers are still constrained indirectly by the retail prices 
charged by Bunnings, because the effect of Bunnings competing with the 
independent retail customers of the wholesalers flows through to put pressure on 
the independent wholesaler to offer competitive prices in order to ensure that the 
retailers they supply do not lose sales to the vertically integrated retailers.  
40. 
Mitre 10 is the closest competitor to Danks in this market and the only other 
player with a similar wholesale warehouse offer. Notwithstanding differences in 
their membership models, Danks and Mitre 10 each supply a large range of 
products to retail stores, and there is considerable overlap between the product 
range and the services they offer.  
41. 
While there are other sources of supply available to retailers including direct 
supply from manufacturers and wholesale buying groups, which many retailers 
use to complement supply from Danks or Mitre 10, market inquiries indicate 
that these suppliers do not constitute close competitive alternatives to the type of 
wholesale supply offered by Danks and Mitre 10 because of differences in their 
products range and service offering. This is discussed further below. 
 


Geographic scope  
42. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the market for the wholesale supply of 
hardware and home improvement products to retailers exists on a regional scale 
and that transit times and transport costs are significant factors in determining 
the geographic dimension of these markets. 
43. 
While the ACCC has yet to define the precise scope of these regional markets, it 
is noted that Danks supplies wholesale customers from distribution centres 
located in Melbourne (supplying stores in Victoria, Tasmania, southern New 
South Wales and South Australia), Welshpool (Western Australia) and Sydney 
(supplying stores in New South Wales and Queensland). This provides some 
guidance as to the likely size of the relevant markets. 
With/without test 
44. 
In assessing a merger pursuant to section 50 of the Trade Practices Act 1974, 
the ACCC must consider the effects of the transaction by comparing the likely 
competitive environment post-acquisition if the transaction proceeds (the “with” 
position) to the likely competitive environment post-acquisition if the 
transaction does not proceed (the “without” or “counterfactual” position) to 
determine whether the acquisition is likely to substantially lessen competition in 
any relevant market. 
45. 
Based on the information available, the ACCC considers that without the 
proposed acquisition, Woolworths would still be likely to enter the hardware 
and home improvement sector by establishing a network of ‘big box’ retail 
stores, together with a wholesale network to supply these stores. There is no 
information currently available to suggest that Lowe’s would have otherwise 
established operations in Australia. 
46. 
On the basis of inquiries to date, the ACCC considers it likely that Danks would 
continue in its present form without the proposed acquisition, operating mainly 
as a wholesale supplier to independent hardware retailers.  
47. 
Therefore, the key difference between the “with” and “without” competitive 
environments in this matter is that with the acquisition Woolworths would be a 
wholesale supplier to Danks member stores and some independent retailers, 
whereas without the proposed acquisition Woolworths would be supplying only 
its own stores at the wholesale level, while Danks would continue to supply the 
stores it currently supplies; in both the with and without scenarios Woolworths 
is likely to operate a network of retail stores.  
Statement of issues 
48. 
For the purposes of a Statement of Issues, the ACCC may identify three 
categories of issues; 'issues of concern', 'issues that may raise concerns requiring 
further analysis' and 'issues unlikely to pose concerns'. In this matter, one issue 
raised below is categorised as an issue of concern, one as an issue that may raise 
concerns requiring further analysis, and one as being unlikely to pose concerns. 


Issue of concern 
 
Reduced competition at the retail level due to a reduction in the number of 
participants at the wholesale level 
 
49. 
The ACCC is concerned that in some local markets the proposed acquisition 
may be likely to result in a reduction in the level of competition between 
retailers in some markets, particularly between Woolworths ‘big box’ stores and 
retailers supplied by Woolworths/Danks, compared with the likely competitive 
position in the absence of the proposed acquisition. 
50. 
This concern arises because the acquisition reduces the number of participants 
at the wholesale level by one compared with the situation without the 
acquisition. Without the acquisition, Woolworths would enter as a vertically 
integrated ‘big box’ retailer with its own wholesale operation, increasing the 
number of significant participants at the wholesale level from three (Bunnings, 
Danks and Mitre 10) to four (with the addition of Woolworths). With the 
acquisition of Danks by Woolworths, the number of significant participants at 
the wholesale level does not increase, but stays at three (Bunnings, Mitre 10, 
and Woolworths).  
51. 
Depending on conditions at the retail level, the lower number of competitors at 
the wholesale level may result in a lower level of competition at the retail level.  
52. 
As noted in the Market Definition section of this paper, while vertically 
integrated wholesalers like Bunnings and the new Woolworths ‘big box’ 
operation do not compete to supply independent retailers, the prices charged by 
wholesalers like Danks and Mitre 10 to independent retailers are still 
constrained indirectly by the retail prices charged by Bunnings and Woolworths 
‘big box’ stores. This is because Bunnings and Woolworths’ ‘big box’ stores 
compete with the retailers who are customers of Danks and Mitre 10, and this 
flows through to put pressure on Danks and Mitre 10 to offer competitive prices 
in order to ensure that the retailers they supply do not lose sales to the vertically 
integrated retailers. 
53. 
When compared to the situation ‘without’ the acquisition, Woolworths’ dual 
role as wholesaler and retailer may provide incentives and opportunities for a 
reduced level of competition at the retail level, particularly in those local areas 
where Woolworths supplies an independent retailer in close proximity to one of 
its new ‘big box’ stores. It may also influence Woolworths’ decisions about 
where to locate its ‘big box’ stores, resulting in a reduction in competition in 
local retail markets where these stores may otherwise have been located. 
54. 
Without the acquisition, Woolworths, Danks and the independent retailers 
Danks supplies would each make their own decisions about how to compete, 
based solely on the aim of maximising their own profits. With the acquisition, 
Woolworths must consider not only its profits through its own vertically 
integrated ‘big box’ retail stores, but also its profits as a wholesaler to 
independent retailers.  
55. 
For example, if there is vigorous competition in a local market where a 
Woolworths ‘big box’ competes with a Home Hardware store, any additional 
profits Woolworths’ retail store earns may come partly at the expense of 


reduced sales and profits at the Home Hardware store and therefore partly at the 
expense of Woolworths’ wholesale operations. With the acquisition, in making 
any decision about how vigorously to compete at the retail level, it would be in 
Woolworths’ interest to weigh up any possible increased ‘big box’ profits 
against the effect this might have in lowering its profits as a wholesaler to 
independent stores. In contrast, without the acquisition, Woolworths would not 
need to take into account any profits it might lose as a wholesaler to 
independents when deciding how to compete as a retailer. 
56. 
Without the acquisition, Danks’ incentive would be to support retailers it 
supplies in order to ensure that they are able to compete effectively, including 
against Woolworths, while the wholesale side of Woolworths’ vertically 
integrated ‘big box’ operation would have the incentive of ensuring that its big 
boxes were able to compete effectively. 
57. 
Vigorous and close competition between hardware and home improvement 
retailers may take many forms including discounted prices, promotions, 
expanded product range, extended opening hours, service offerings, delivery 
options, or decisions about whether to expand or build a new store. The ACCC 
is concerned that the incentive for such competition may be reduced post-
acquisition. 
58. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that a retailer supplied by Danks and located 
near a Woolworths retail store may have less ability and incentive to vigorously 
compete with Woolworths, for example by undercutting the prices of the 
Woolworths retail store, if Woolworths is also its wholesale supplier. With 
Woolworths as their wholesale supplier, independents may be less likely to be 
offered special deals from their wholesaler designed to help them compete with 
or undercut a nearby Woolworths ‘big box’ operation. Further, even if 
independent retailers were able to obtain a consignment of goods direct from a 
manufacturer at a price that allowed them to undercut the Woolworths ‘big box’ 
store, they would face a risk of retaliation by Woolworths as their key wholesale 
supplier, which may dissuade them from doing so. This risk of retaliation by the 
wholesaler would not exist without the acquisition (since Danks is not also a 
retailer). 
59. 
The level of competition from other retailers is critical to the ACCC’s 
assessment of whether the lower number of wholesale market participants is 
likely to lessen competition at the retail level; in local markets where there are 
other strong competitors, Woolworths and the independent retailer may risk 
losing sales to those competitors unless they compete as vigorously as possible.  
Comments from interested parties 
60. 
The ACCC recognises there may be difficulties in providing comments in 
relation to specific local markets without knowledge of the location of 
Woolworths’ ‘big box’ stores. Notwithstanding this, the ACCC is interested in 
any information interested parties can provide which may assist in assessing 
Woolworths’ incentives to compete vigorously with its retail competitors 
(which are also its wholesale customers). More generally, the ACCC invites 
market participants to provide any information they have about the likelihood or 
otherwise of reduced competition at the retail level due to a reduction in the 
number of participants at the wholesale level. 


Issue that may raise concerns 
 
Discrimination against wholesale customers who are also retail competitors 
 
61. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition may provide Woolworths 
with market power in wholesale markets for the supply of hardware and home 
improvement products such that it may have the ability and incentive to 
discriminate against some of its wholesale customers who are also its retail 
competitors. The ACCC is concerned that this may limit the ability of these 
stores to compete as effectively in local markets for the retail sale of various 
categories of hardware and home improvement products as they would have 
without the acquisition (that is, if Danks remained independent of Woolworths).  
62. 
During the ACCC’s market inquiries, some parties expressed concerns that 
post-acquisition, and particularly after the rollout of its ‘big box’ stores, 
Woolworths’ position as a wholesaler and a retailer may give it the ability and 
incentive to discriminate against some or all of those retailers it supplies in 
favour of its own ‘big box’ stores. Concerns were also expressed about whether 
Woolworths would continue to have the incentive to support the old Danks 
wholesale business supplying retailers in the medium to longer term. 
63. 
If Woolworths has both the ability and incentive to discriminate against or 
foreclose its wholesale customers, this may substantially lessen competition by 
impeding the ability of independent retailers to compete as effectively as they 
would have in the absence of the proposed acquisition, thereby denying 
consumers the benefits that this competition would bring.  
Would Woolworths have the ability to discriminate against wholesale customers? 
64. 
The ACCC considers that Woolworths’ position as a wholesale supplier may 
provide it with opportunities to discriminate against particular stores by 
imposing less favourable trading terms including by increasing prices, limiting 
or denying access to certain products, or reducing service levels.  
Alternative sources of wholesale supply for Danks stores and independent hardware 
retailers  
65. 
An important factor in determining whether Woolworths would have the ability 
to foreclose or discriminate against wholesale customers is the availability or 
otherwise of closely competitive alternative sources of supply to which these 
retailers could switch if they were dissatisfied with Woolworths’ wholesale 
supply terms.  
66. 
If Danks’ member stores and independent retailers could readily switch away 
from Woolworths to an alternative wholesale supplier, then Woolworths would 
have no ability to profitably engage in such behaviour, because if Woolworths 
increased its prices to wholesale customers, they would not be forced to increase 
their retail prices and lose sales to the Woolworths ‘big box’, but would instead 
simply switch to a new wholesaler. This would result in reduced wholesaling 
profits for Woolworths as it lost a wholesale customer, but no benefit to its ‘big 
box’ retail store since the independent store would be undamaged as a 
competitor. However, if Danks member stores and independent retailers have 
insufficient realistic alternative wholesale options, they would find it difficult to 
resist any attempt by Woolworths to engage in foreclosure or discrimination. 


67. 
The ACCC has received conflicting views from market participants about the 
feasibility of Danks’ members and independent customers switching to Mitre 
10, the largest other hardware wholesaler, if they were dissatisfied with 
Woolworths’ wholesale supply. Some market participants have suggested that 
Mitre 10’s membership and supply terms are less attractive than those of Danks, 
while others have noted that there may be restrictions preventing Danks’ 
members from switching. Restrictions on switching may include territorial 
restrictions which prevent or limit the ability of new Mitre 10 stores to set up in 
close proximity to existing stores, although it is noted that in areas where this 
issue arises, the existence of a Mitre 10 store is likely to provide some degree of 
competitive constraint in the retail market.  
68. 
As to whether stores could obtain supply directly from suppliers and/or through 
wholesale buying groups if they were unhappy with Woolworths’ wholesale 
supply, the ACCC’s market inquiries have indicated that while many Danks 
wholesale customers currently source some products through these channels, 
these may not represent close substitutes to Danks as a wholesale supplier for 
the following reasons:  
• other suppliers cannot offer the same efficiencies gained by aggregating 
supply of a broad range of products through one supplier;  
• the effect of minimum ordering requirements for each supplier, when 
accumulated across a number of suppliers or wholesale buying groups, 
results in significant financial and logistical burdens; and  
• the extensive range of products available through Danks cannot be viably 
replicated via alternative avenues of supply.  
69. 
The height of barriers to new entry or expansion into wholesale supply is also 
relevant to the issue of whether sufficient alternative sources of supply are likely 
to be available to wholesale customers post-acquisition. If a new wholesaler 
could enter the market and supply retailers on terms that allowed them to 
compete strongly, or if retailers could establish their own buying group or 
credibly threaten to do so, it is unlikely that Woolworths could engage in 
foreclosure or discrimination strategies because wholesale customers would 
have sufficient viable supply alternatives. 
Would Woolworths have the incentive to discriminate against wholesale customers? 
70. 
Woolworths would have an incentive to discriminate against a store which is its 
wholesale customer (e.g. a Home Hardware store) only if this would increase its 
overall profits. In order for this to be the case, the additional profit earned by 
Woolworths’ ‘big box’ retail store as a result of customers switching their 
purchases from the Home Hardware store to the Woolworths ‘big box’ store 
would need to outweigh the profits it would lose as a result of the reduction in 
its wholesale sales to the Home Hardware store.  
71. 
Whether or not this is the case will depend on a number of factors, including the 
relative size of the profit margins Woolworths earns on retail versus wholesale 
sales, and the strength of competition Woolworths faces in the local market; if 
Woolworths raises its wholesale prices to a wholesale customer (e.g. a Home 
Hardware store) which in turn is forced to raise its retail prices and therefore 
loses some customers, Woolworths’ ‘big box’ would hope to gain some of those 


customers. However, if Woolworths faces a number of other strong competitors 
in the local retail market, it is likely that those competitors will gain a large 
share of the sales lost by the Home Hardware store in question. Accordingly, the 
stronger the competition that Woolworths faces in a local retail market, the less 
likely it is that such a foreclosure or discrimination strategy would be profitable 
for Woolworths. 
Would foreclosure or discrimination against wholesale customers constitute a 
substantial lessening of competition? 
72. 
The ACCC is concerned that if implemented, such foreclosure strategies may 
limit the ability of these stores to compete as effectively in local retail markets 
as they would have without the proposed acquisition. It may cause the closure of 
some stores or discourage new entrants to the market. This may in turn lessen 
competition in the relevant markets, disadvantaging consumers. 
Comments from interested parties 
73. 
While this issue has been raised as a concern, the ACCC is seeking further 
information from interested parties to support or refute the assertion that 
Woolworths is likely to have the incentive and ability to engage in this conduct 
post acquisition and the extent to which it would impact the level of 
competition. Specifically, interested parties are invited to provide information 
relating to the following: 
i. Whether there are viable, competitive alternative sources of wholesale 
supply to which Danks stores and other independent retailers could readily 
switch if they were dissatisfied with Woolworths’ wholesale supply. 
Possible supply alternatives may include Mitre 10, purchasing direct from 
suppliers, specialist wholesalers, other wholesalers, wholesale buying 
groups (or any other avenues of supply).  
ii. Could these alternative suppliers replicate the product and service offering 
currently offered by Danks or are there particular products or services 
currently supplied by Danks which are not available elsewhere? 
iii. What is the nature and extent of barriers to new entry to hardware 
wholesaling?  
iv. How likely is it that existing Danks stores could sponsor the entry of a new 
wholesaler or establish their own wholesale arrangements in the event that 
they could not find alternative sources of supply? 
v. Is the proposed acquisition likely to increase or decrease the extent of any 
barriers to entry, or are they likely to stay the same? 
vi. Are there particular local markets in which there is a lack of independently 
supplied retailers to which customers could turn in the event that 
Woolworths forecloses its retail competitor(s) in that market? 
 
 
 
 


Issue unlikely to pose concerns 
Conglomerate merger issues 
74. 
The ACCC considered whether Woolworths’ presence in other markets 
(including groceries, liquor, petrol) would provide it with advantages which 
could be leveraged into the hardware and home improvement sector such that it 
would lead to a substantial lessening of competition in any of the relevant 
markets. 
75. 
On the basis of the information available, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that 
Woolworths’ presence in other markets is unlikely to give it market power in 
any relevant market such that the proposed acquisition will result in a 
substantial lessening of competition. 
Further submissions and comments in relation to this issue  
76. 
Although the ACCC is of the preliminary view that this issue is unlikely to pose 
concerns, the ACCC will accept further submissions from market participants 
with regard to this issue and will further consider possible competition concerns 
if it considers that such an assessment is warranted.  
ACCC's future steps 
77. 
The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers market 
responses invited by this Statement of Issues. 
78. 
The ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on each of the 
issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that may be 
relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. 
79. 
Submissions are to be received by the ACCC no later than 23 October 2009. 
The ACCC will consider the submissions received from the market and the 
merger parties in light of the issues identified above and will, in conjunction 
with information and submissions already provided by the parties, come to a 
final view as to the appropriate course of action to take to resolve any 
competition concerns that remain. 
80. 
The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 11 November 2009. 
However the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Merger Review 
Process Guidelines. A public Competition Assessment for the purpose of 
explaining the ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's 
public announcement. 
 
