COMPETITION AND CONSUMER ACT 2010  
CONSENT TO WITHDRAWAL OF SECTION 87B UNDERTAKING  
BACKGROUND 
1. On 11 November 2009 the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission 
(ACCC) accepted an undertaking pursuant to section 87B of the Competition and 
Consumer Act 2010 (the Act) (the Woolworths undertaking) given by Woolworths 
Limited (Woolworths) and Carboxy Pty Limited (Carboxy) in relation to the 
acquisition of Danks Holding Limited (Danks) by Carboxy, a joint venture between 
Woolworths and Lowe’s Companies Inc. On 12 January 2015 Carboxy changed its 
name to Hydrox Brands Pty Ltd (Hydrox). 
2. Danks is a wholesale distributor of hardware products to hardware retailers, including 
to stores affiliated with Danks and to independent hardware retailers. The 
Woolworths undertaking placed obligations upon Woolworths and Hydrox to not 
restrict the ability of hardware retailers to purchase goods from other suppliers and to 
not discriminate against hardware retailers it supplies which are located near a 
hardware store owned by Woolworths and Hydrox.  
3. On 20 July 2016 the ACCC decided not to oppose a proposed acquisition by 
Metcash of the Home Timber and Hardware Group (HTHG) by way of the acquisition 
of 100% of the shares in Danks (the Metcash acquisition), and the ACCC accepted 
an undertaking from Metcash in relation to the acquisition (the Metcash 
undertaking).  
4. The Metcash undertaking imposes upon Metcash, as the new owner of Danks, 
obligations that are similar to those of the Woolworths undertaking: namely, Metcash 
must not restrict the ability of hardware retailers to purchase goods from other 
suppliers and must not discriminate against any hardware stores that are located 
near stores that Metcash has an ownership interest in.  
5. On 1 November 2016 Woolworths and Hydrox requested that the ACCC consent to 
the withdrawal of the Woolworths undertaking due to the Metcash acquisition.  
WITHDRAWAL  
6. In accordance with section 87B(2) of the Act, the ACCC gave consent to the 
withdrawal of the Woolworths undertaking in its entirety, with effect from 20 
December 2016.  
7. The basis on which consent was provided includes the following: 
a. on 2 October 2016 Metcash acquired 100% of the shares in Danks 
b. Woolworths and Hydrox no longer have any interest in Danks 
c. the Danks business continues to trade under the ownership of Metcash 
(which is bound by the Metcash undertaking). 
