 
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
tel: (02) 6243 1368 
mergers@accc.gov.au
www.accc.gov.au
Our ref:  
IM-71857 
 
Contact officer: 
Matthew Chan 
Contact phone: 
(02) 9230 3873  
28 July 2022 
 
Dear Interested Party 
Re:  Request for submissions: Endeavour’s proposed acquisition of 
Beachfront Hotel 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
Endeavour Group Limited’s (Endeavour) proposed acquisition of Beachfront Hotel at 342 
Casuarina Drive, Rapid Creek, NT (Beachfront Hotel) (the proposed acquisition). 
Endeavour is a major Australian alcoholic drinks retailer and hotel operator. It operates 
several bottle shops (including BWS Nightcliff and BWS Casuarina) and hotels (including 
Airport Tavern) near Beachfront Hotel. Beachfront Hotel consists of the hotel and an 
adjoining drive-through bottle shop which trades under the Cellarbrations brand. Further 
details are provided at Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact on competition.  In particular, we are 
seeking your views on:  
• 
how closely Endeavour’s hotels and bottle shops compete with Beachfront Hotel  
• 
the availability of other hotels and bottle shops in the area, and 
• 
whether Endeavour’s increased size would impact the acquisition of liquor products at 
the wholesale level. 
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
 


Please provide your response by no later than 19 August 2022 via email to 
mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: Submission re: Endeavour’s proposed acquisition of 
Beachfront Hotel - attention Matthew Chan. If you require more time to respond, please let 
us know. 
If you would like to arrange a time to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any 
questions about this letter, please contact Matthew Chan on (02) 9230 3873.  
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public 
Mergers Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC treats sensitive information it receives during a merger review as confidential, 
and will not publish your submission. We will not disclose submissions to third parties 
(except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of 
information legislation or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the 
Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, we will notify you in advance where possible so that you have an opportunity to 
be heard. Therefore please clearly indicate if any information you provide is confidential. 
Our Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on 
confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
Bruce Mikkelsen 
(A/g) General Manager  
Merger Investigations  


 
Attachment A 
 
The proposed acquisition 
 
Endeavour proposes to acquire the leasehold interest and business assets (including 
the hotel liquor licence) associated with Beachfront Hotel at 342 Casuarina Drive, 
Rapid Creek, NT.  
 
Endeavour 
 
Endeavour is a major Australian alcoholic drinks retailer and hotel operator that 
operates a portfolio of brands including BWS, Dan Murphy’s, Jimmy Brings, 
Langton’s and Cellarmasters. Endeavour also manages over 330 licensed hotels 
(with more than 12,000 gaming machines) across Australia, through its subsidiary, 
ALH Hotels. Until 28 June 2021, Endeavour was a subsidiary of Woolworths Group. 
However, Endeavour has been separated from Woolworths Group via a demerger 
and is now a separately listed corporation on the ASX (ASX: EDV). 
 
Endeavour currently operates four bottle shops within a 5 km radius from Beachfront 
Hotel, and one hotel within a 5 km radius (and another hotel within a 10 km radius). 
 
The four bottle shops are: 
• 
BWS Nightcliff, located at Nightcliff Shopping Centre 
• 
BWS Casuarina, located at Casuarina Square 
• 
BWS Airport Tavern Drive, located at 227 McMillans Road, Jingili, and 
• 
BWS Leanyer, located at Hibiscus Shoppingtown. 
 
The hotels are: 
• 
Airport Tavern, located at 227 McMillans Road, Jingili (within 5 km radius), and 
• 
Parap Tavern, located at 15 Parap Road, Parap (within 10 km radius). 
 
Further information on Endeavour: https://www.endeavourgroup.com.au/.  
 
 
Beachfront Hotel 
 
Beachfront Hotel is located at 342 Casuarina Drive, Rapid Creek, NT. It sits on a 
block of 7,500 sqm and includes a bistro offering on-site food and beverage, a public 
sports bar (with TAB), 20 gaming machines, and a drive-through bottle shop. The 
bottle shop has a trading area of approximately 270 sqm and currently trades under 
the Cellarbrations brand.  
 
Further information on Beachfront Hotel: https://www.beachfronthotel.com.au/.  
 
 


 
Attachment B 
1. Please provide a brief description of you, your business or organisation and 
explain your interest in the proposed acquisition, including any commercial 
relationship(s) with Endeavour and/or Beachfront Hotel. 
Bottle shops 
2. Discuss how closely each of Endeavour’s bottle shops (BWS Nightcliff, BWS 
Casuarina, BWS Airport Tavern Drive, and BWS Leanyer) competes with 
Beachfront Hotel’s bottle shop in the supply of retail liquor. In your response, 
please consider factors such as price, quality, location, range of offering, 
promotional activity, and any other relevant factors. 
3. Identify and describe other bottle shops in the area and how they compare on the 
factors outlined in question 2. 
4. Explain whether it is important or advantageous for bottle shops to offer a drive-
through service to compete for customers. 
5. Explain whether it is important for bottle shops to be located near other shops 
and/or retail stores to compete for customers. 
6. Describe the likelihood of new bottle shops being established in the area. In your 
answer, please have regard to costs, time, and availability of liquor licenses. 
Hotels 
7. Discuss how closely each of Endeavour’s hotels (Airport Tavern and Parap 
Tavern) competes with Beachfront Hotel in the supply of: 
a. food and liquor for on-premises consumption, and 
b. live entertainment and gaming services, including gaming/poker 
machines, lotteries and network games. 
In your response, please consider factors such as price, quality, location, range of 
offering, and any other relevant factors. 
8. Identify and describe the available alternatives and closest competitors to each of 
Endeavour’s hotels and Beachfront Hotel and explain how each compare on the 
factors outlined in question 7. 
9. Discuss how closely Endeavour’s hotels and Beachfront Hotel compete with 
venues that do not offer all of the services offered at these hotels - for example, 
restaurants and cafes that do not offer liquor for on-premises consumption. 
Wholesale acquisition of liquor 
10. Identify whether the proposed acquisition will impact on the acquisition of liquor 
products at the wholesale level from manufacturers, either at the Northern 
Territory or national market level. 
Additional information  
11. Outline any other concerns you have about the likely competition effects of the 
proposed acquisition or comments you consider relevant to the ACCC’s 
assessment, including your reasons.  
