 
1 
 
ACCC WILL NOT OPPOSE QUADRANT’S PROPOSED ACQUISITION OF 
FITNESS FIRST  
1 December 2016 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission will not oppose Quadrant 
Fund 5’s (Quadrant) proposed acquisition of Fitness First Asia Pacific Group Pty Ltd 
(Fitness First).  
Quadrant owns the Goodlife Health Clubs network (Goodlife) and is the head 
franchisor of the 24/7 gym chain Jetts Fitness (Jetts) in Australia. Fitness First, 
Goodlife and Jetts’ operations overlap in Victoria, New South Wales and 
Queensland. 
Some market participants raised concerns about the combination of Fitness First and 
Goodlife, which are the two largest chains of ‘full service’ gyms in Australia. Full 
service gyms typically offer a range of weight and cardio equipment, as well as group 
training classes.  
“The ACCC determined that following the proposed acquisition, Fitness First, 
Goodlife and Jetts would continue to face competition from other alternatives, 
including low cost gyms such as Anytime Fitness and specialist gym providers such 
as F45 and Crossfit,”ACCC Commissioner Roger Featherston said. 
“The ACCC also found that convenience of location was an important factor in a 
consumer’s choice of gym, thereby giving an individual gym an opportunity to 
compete against a chain of gyms.” 
“Other suppliers of fitness services, such as bootcamps, or specialist studios, such 
as pilates, also impose a degree of competitive constraint on full service gyms,” Mr 
Featherston said. 
The ACCC took into account the dynamic changes and high churn rates affecting the 
gym industry in recent years. A number of new operators, including overseas 
operators, have entered the market and experienced significant growth in a short 
space of time, particularly in the low cost gym and specialist gym market segments. 
Further information is available at www.accc.gov.au.   
Background 
Goodlife has 77 clubs in Australia and approximately 200,000 members. Its clubs are 
in New South Wales, Queensland, Victoria, South Australia and Western Australia.  
There are over 200 Jetts gyms in Australia, spread across New South Wales, 
Queensland, Victoria, South Australia and Western Australia. Whilst some Jetts 
gyms are owned by Quadrant, the majority are owned by franchisees. 


 
2 
 
Fitness First has approximately 60 gyms in Australia and approximately 240,000 
members. Its clubs are in New South Wales, Queensland, Victoria and the 
Australian Capital Territory.  
