 
Page 1 of 18 
 
Statement of Issues 
6 September 2018 
Proposed merger of Siemens’ rail mobility division with Alstom 
Purpose 
1. 
Siemens A.G. (Siemens) proposes to combine its Mobility Division with Alstom 
S.A. (Alstom) (the proposed merger). Siemens and Alstom are both active in 
the rail mobility industry globally, and each supplies rail signalling, rolling stock 
and rail electrification in Australia.   
2. 
This Statement of Issues: 
 provides the preliminary views of the Australian Competition and Consumer 
Commission (ACCC) on competition issues arising from the proposed merger  
 identifies areas of further inquiry, and 
 invites interested parties to submit comments and information to assist the 
ACCC’s assessment of the issues. 
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views 
3. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering a proposed merger is set 
out in section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth). Section 50 
prohibits mergers and acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to have 
the effect, of substantially lessening competition in any market. 
4. 
The ACCC divides its preliminary views into three categories, 'issues of concern', 
'issues that may raise concerns' and ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’. 
Issues that may raise concerns  
5. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed merger may substantially 
lessen competition for heavy rail signalling projects for passenger rail networks, 
in particular those involving interlocking systems and/or trackside automatic train 
protection (ATP) systems.  
6. 
The proposed merger would result in the horizontal aggregation of two of the 
leading suppliers of signalling systems in Australia and reduce the number of 


Proposed merger of Siemens’ rail mobility division with Alstom 
Page 2 of 18 
credible suppliers. A combined Siemens-Alstom would be by far the largest 
supplier of heavy rail signalling in Australia. 
7. 
The reduction in competition may lead to higher prices and/or lower levels of 
service to customers and/or less innovation. 
Making a submission 
8. 
The ACCC is seeking submissions from interested parties, particularly on the 
following key issues: 
 The closeness of competition between Siemens and Alstom, and between 
Siemens and Alstom and other suppliers of signalling systems in Australia. 
 The extent to which customers for signalling systems have viable alternatives 
to Siemens and Alstom in Australia. 
 The extent to which other signalling providers not currently present (or without 
a significant presence) in heavy rail signalling in Australia could enter or 
expand if a combined Siemens-Alstom attempted to increase prices and/or 
decrease service levels. 
 Any advantage that signalling providers with an existing presence on a 
network may have in relation to future signalling projects on that network. 
9. 
Detailed discussion of these and other issues, along with specific questions, is 
set out in this Statement of Issues.  
10. 
Interested parties should provide submissions by 5pm on 20 September 2018. 
Responses may be e-mailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: Submission 
re: Siemens/Alstom – attention Peter Turner-Kerr/Isabelle Arnaud. If you would 
like to discuss the matter with ACCC officers over the telephone or in person, or 
have any questions about this Statement of Issues, please contact Isabelle 
Arnaud on (02) 6243 1271.  
11. 
The ACCC anticipates making a final decision on 29 November 2018. However, 
this timeline can change. To keep abreast of any changes and to find relevant 
documents, please visit the Mergers Register on the ACCC's website at 
www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
Confidentiality of submissions 
12. 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed merger. It will 
not disclose submissions to third parties (except its advisors/consultants) unless 
compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or 
during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition 
and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth). Where the ACCC is required to disclose 
confidential information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where possible so 
that you may have an opportunity to be heard.  Therefore, if the information 
provided to the ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate as such. The 
ACCC’s Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain further information 
on confidentiality. 


Proposed merger of Siemens’ rail mobility division with Alstom 
Page 3 of 18 
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’ 
13. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed merger, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing attention 
to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well as 
identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
14. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
the merger parties, customers, competitors, shareholders and other 
stakeholders) to ascertain and consider the primary issues identified by the 
ACCC. It is also intended to provide interested parties with a basis for making 
further submissions should they consider it necessary. 
Timeline 
Date 
Event 
19 April 2018 
ACCC commenced public review of the proposed 
merger under the Merger Process Guidelines 
9 May 2018 
Closing date for submissions from interested parties 
26 June 2018 
Former provisional decision date of 12 July 2018 
delayed until 16 August 2018 to allow ACCC time to 
consider additional information 
8 August 2018 
 
 
28 August 2018 
The merger parties requested ACCC delay timeline to 
allow them to provide further information. The former 
provisional decision date of 16 August 2018 was 
suspended pending receipt of the further information 
The ACCC received further information from the parties 
6 September 2018 
ACCC published a Statement of Issues 
20 September 2018 
Deadline for submissions from interested parties in 
response to Statement of Issues 
29 November 2018 
Anticipated date for ACCC final decision  
The proposed merger and the parties 
15. 
The proposed merger involves the combination of Siemens’ rail mobility 
business with Alstom by way of a contribution of Siemens’ Mobility Division to 
Alstom in consideration for newly issued Alstom shares.1  
                                                 
 
1 https://www.alstom.com/press-releases-news/2017/9/siemens-and-alstom-join-forces-to-create-a-
european-champion-in-mobility. 


Proposed merger of Siemens’ rail mobility division with Alstom 
Page 4 of 18 
Siemens 
16. 
Siemens is a listed German conglomerate headquartered in Munich. Its Mobility 
Division is one of 11 business divisions. Siemens acquired signalling supplier 
Invensys Rail in 20132 and Perth-based MRX Technologies in 2017.3 
17. 
In Australia, Siemens operates its Mobility business largely through its wholly-
owned subsidiary Siemens Ltd, which focuses on the supply of heavy rail 
signalling and rail electrification. It also has a historical presence in the supply of 
rolling stock.  
18. 
Siemens has operations in more than 200 countries and employs approximately 
377,000 people worldwide. In the year to 30 September 2017, Siemens 
employed approximately 2,200 people in Australia and New Zealand across 16 
locations.4 
Alstom 
19. 
Alstom is a French société anonyme listed on the Euronext Paris stock 
exchange. Globally, Alstom supplies high speed trains, metros, tramways, e-
buses, infrastructure, signalling, digital mobility solutions and maintenance 
services. In 2015, Alstom acquired GE’s signalling business.5 
20. 
In Australia, Alstom carries on business through its wholly-owned subsidiary 
Alstom Transport Australia Pty Limited, and predominantly supplies rolling stock, 
signalling, electrification and associated products and services. 
21. 
Alstom operates across more than 60 countries and employs approximately 
34,500 people (including approximately 400 people in Australia). 
Key area of overlap 
22. 
The key area of overlap between Siemens and Alstom in Australia is in heavy 
rail signalling projects.  
23. 
Rail signalling projects involve one or more signalling elements/systems supplied 
together with other services such as project specific engineering, development 
and project management, procurement and supply of necessary signalling 
equipment, systems integration, installation, testing and maintenance services.  
24. 
Siemens and Alstom also overlap in the supply of rolling stock and rail 
electrification in Australia. However, this overlap is relatively minor and, as a 
result, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed merger is unlikely to 
substantially lessen competition in these areas. This Statement of Issues does 
not, therefore, consider those aspects further. 
                                                 
 
2 https://www.siemens.com/press/en/pressrelease/2012/corporate/axx20121110.htm. 
3 https://www.siemens.com/press/en/pressrelease/2017/mobility/pr2017060324moen.htm. 
4 https://www.siemens.com/au/en/home/company/about.html. 
5 https://www.alstom.com/press-releases-news/2015/11/alstom-refocused-on-rail-transport-with-strong-
leadership-positions. 


Proposed merger of Siemens’ rail mobility division with Alstom 
Page 5 of 18 
Industry background – rail signalling  
25. 
Signalling systems provide safety and traffic management controls on rail 
networks. At their simplest, these systems avoid collisions by preventing two 
trains from meeting on the same section of track. 
26. 
There are broadly two types of signalling systems: 
 Heavy rail signalling systems – used on ‘mainline’ (intercity passenger, freight 
and private industrial lines) and ‘urban/metro’ passenger rail networks (see 
below for more details), and 
 Tram/light rail signalling systems – less complex than heavy rail signalling 
systems and rely predominately on ‘line of sight’ and existing road traffic 
signalling. 
27. 
The ACCC understands that the signalling technology used on private 
industrial/freight rail lines in Australia differs from that used on passenger rail 
lines and that customers for industrial/freight lines work closely with suppliers to 
develop bespoke solutions. Passenger rail networks generally deploy more 
standardised signalling systems that comply with more stringent safety 
standards.  
28. 
In that light, and given the key area of overlap between the parties in Australia as 
noted above, this Statement of Issues focuses on ‘mainline’ and ‘urban/metro’ 
heavy rail signalling for passenger rail networks.  
Mainline and urban/metro heavy rail signalling 
29. 
Mainline signalling systems provide safety and control systems for rail networks 
operating between cities and towns and between city centres and suburbs. 
Modern systems typically allow for interoperability between different lines and/or 
networks and for trains to run at higher speeds than urban/metro signalling 
systems.  
30. 
Urban/metro signalling systems provide safety and control systems for dedicated 
‘closed loop’ railway lines that generally do not require interoperability with other 
lines or networks. 
31. 
In other countries, there is generally a clear distinction between mainline and 
urban/metro signalling systems. This is particularly true in large, densely 
populated cities with mass transit systems (such as the Paris Métro and London 
Underground). However, the distinction between mainline and urban/metro 
signalling systems does not appear to be as relevant in Australia as it is in other 
countries. Aside from the recently announced Melbourne Metro Tunnel and 
Sydney Metro Northwest projects,6 the ACCC understands that trains operating 
on ‘urban’ networks in Australian cities (i.e. in city centres and between city 
centres and suburbs) typically rely on technology which is similar to that used on 
‘mainline’ networks in other countries. 
                                                 
 
6 https://metrotunnel.vic.gov.au/; https://www.sydneymetro.info/northwest/project-overview. 


Proposed merger of Siemens’ rail mobility division with Alstom 
Page 6 of 18 
Key elements of heavy rail signalling  
32. 
Heavy rail signalling typically includes four key elements: 
a)  Interlockings are the core safety component of a signalling system. 
Interlockings set routes for the safe movement of trains by controlling 
access to sections of track (“blocks”). Most rail networks, particularly the 
urban commuter networks in Australian capital cities, employ a mix of 
interlocking technologies provided by different suppliers. Modern 
interlockings are a combination of computer hardware and software that 
interface with other elements of a signalling system to issue movement 
authorities to trains using pre-programmed proprietary software logic 
patterns. Older ‘legacy’ (electronic relay and mechanical)7 interlockings are 
also commonly found on Australian rail networks, but are being 
progressively replaced with more modern computer-based interlockings.  
b)  Train Protection systems are designed to protect trains by ensuring that 
movement authorities issued by interlockings are obeyed. There are 
different types of train protection systems available. These range from 
relatively basic automatic warning systems, which sound an alarm when a 
train is approaching a red signal and can apply an emergency brake if the 
train fails to stop, to more modern and sophisticated automatic train 
protection (ATP) systems. Train protection systems comprise: 
 On-board components – including computer systems, which receive 
signalling information from trackside components and implement 
necessary safety procedures. This may include driver warning 
signals and/or automatically slowing or stopping the train.  
 Trackside components – receive signalling commands from 
interlockings and transmit this information to the train’s on-board 
components. 
ATP systems are becoming increasingly standardised, particularly through 
the promotion of the European Train Control System (ETCS) standard (see 
the ETCS and CBTC section below for more details).  
c)  Operational Control Systems (OCS) are IT-based platforms that facilitate 
the overall management of a rail network (or part of a rail network). They 
enable the integration, control and monitoring of signalling sub-systems 
and facilitate timetable management, decision support, dispatching, 
maintenance, security and customer management. In particular, OCS 
operate networks of interlockings and provide a user interface for the 
signalling system.  
d)  Trackside equipment and other signalling components are objects 
installed alongside or near the railway track, which interface with, or form 
part of, interlockings and train protection systems. The key elements are 
described in the table below. 
                                                 
 
7 Electronic relay interlockings use hard-wired circuitry and electrically operated switches 
known as ‘relays’, which enable a degree of automated route setting. Mechanical 
interlockings employ levers to operate switches, signals and other components, which are 
connected to a ‘locking bed’ constructed of steel bars. The bars are constructed on the basis of 
pre-determined logic patterns. If the function controlled by a given lever conflicts with that 
controlled by another lever, mechanical interference occurs between the bars thereby 
physically preventing the conflicting lever movement from being made. 


Proposed merger of Siemens’ rail mobility division with Alstom 
Page 7 of 18 
Interlocking elements 
 
Track circuits 
Detect trains on a track “block” by creating an electrical 
current between the rails, which is short-circuited by a 
passing train’s wheels/axles. 
Axle counters 
Determine track occupancy by detecting the passing of a 
train between two points on a track; typically the beginning 
and end of a “block”. By comparing the number of axles 
passing over sensors at the start of a “block” to the number 
passing over sensors at the end of a “block”, it can be 
determined whether the “block” is occupied or vacant. Axle 
counters are also capable of determining train speed and 
direction.  
Point machines 
Devices that move sets of rails to guide trains from one set 
of tracks to another, such as at a junction, spur or siding. 
Track signals 
Coloured lights or mechanical arms that instruct a train 
driver to pass, stop or proceed cautiously. In some cases, 
track signals also communicate a speed limit to drivers. 
Relays 
Electronic switching devices that respond to changes in 
current or voltage, often to control trackside components. 
Object controllers 
Devices used to interface between interlockings and 
trackside components such as point machines, track circuits 
and track signals.  
ATP elements 
Balises (also known as 
‘beacons’, ‘coupling units’ or 
‘transponders’) 
Devices installed between the rails that communicate 
signalling information directly to a passing train. A 
‘Eurobalise’ is a specific type of balise designed for use with 
ETCS. 
Encoders 
Devices that translate movement authorities issued by an 
interlocking into a form suitable for transmission to a train’s 
on-board unit via a balise.  
Other elements 
Level crossings 
Control the intersection between a railway line and a road or 
path at the same level by predicting train arrival and 
lowering barriers and/or activating signals to prevent traffic 
from proceeding across a track when a train is approaching. 
ETCS and CBTC 
33. 
As noted above, ATP systems are becoming increasingly standardised, 
particularly through the promotion of the European Train Control System (ETCS) 
standard. 
34. 
ETCS standardises the communication protocol between on-board and trackside 
ATP equipment. This enables interoperability between rail networks and on-
board equipment from different suppliers. 
35. 
The ACCC understands that ETCS is becoming a ‘de facto’ standard for ATP on 
mainline rail networks in Australia, with a number of networks currently 
operating, or working towards deploying, ETCS. 


Proposed merger of Siemens’ rail mobility division with Alstom 
Page 8 of 18 
36. 
There are currently two variations (‘levels’) of ETCS available:  
a)  ETCS Level 1: can be overlaid on top of existing legacy interlockings, 
using trackside equipment (Eurobalises and encoders) to translate 
signalling information between ETCS compatible on-board equipment and 
the interlockings. 
b)  ETCS Level 2: reduces the need for trackside equipment and relies to a 
greater extent on on-board systems that communicate directly with 
compatible computer-based interlockings using GSM-R radio based 
communication. 
37. 
While ETCS is becoming a ‘de facto’ standard for ATP on mainline rail networks, 
some ‘closed-loop’/self-contained urban/metro networks are adopting proprietary 
communications-based train control (CBTC) protocols, particularly in large, 
densely populated cities. CBTC systems use radio equipment for communication 
between trains, trackside equipment and control systems to detect and control 
train location, speed and direction. CBTC allows for more accurate train 
detection than conventional signalling systems and increases network capacity 
and performance by decreasing train intervals. CBTC also enables varying 
grades of automation, ranging from driver-assisted ATP to fully automated 
driverless systems. CBTC projects are currently underway in Sydney (Metro 
Northwest)8 and Melbourne (Metro Tunnel).9 Unlike ETCS, CBTC technology 
varies between suppliers as there is no need for interoperability on closed-loop 
networks. 
Regulatory framework  
38. 
In Australia, rail operators must comply with the Rail Safety National Law 
(RSNL), which is administered by the Office of the National Rail Safety Operator. 
The RSNL includes requirements in respect of occupational health and safety, 
accreditation and rail safety.10 The RSNL has been substantially adopted by 
each State and Territory. Signalling equipment suppliers must ensure that their 
products meet certain requirements specified by the RSNL.11  
39. 
In addition to the requirements of the RSNL, there are competency frameworks 
at the State and Territory level which govern the performance of certain tasks 
and provide for the supervision and approval of signalling system designs and 
data verification. 
40. 
Signalling equipment must also be “type-approved” before it can be deployed on 
a network. Type-approval is a network-specific certification process through 
which equipment is certified so as to demonstrate that it meets minimum 
regulatory, technical and safety requirements. 
                                                 
 
8 https://www.sydneymetro.info/northwest/project-overview. 
9 https://metrotunnel.vic.gov.au/. 
10 https://www.onrsr.com.au/about-onrsr/legislation.  
11 Broadly, equipment designers, manufacturers, and suppliers must ensure that rail infrastructure is safe 
for its intended purpose https://www.onrsr.com.au/__data/assets/pdf_file/0016/10465/Guideline-Major-
Projects.pdf. 


Proposed merger of Siemens’ rail mobility division with Alstom 
Page 9 of 18 
41. 
The time and cost associated with type-approving equipment can vary 
depending on the nature/complexity of the technology in question and any 
specific requirements imposed by the rail operator. However the time and cost 
involved in type-approving some equipment can be extensive.  
42. 
The ACCC understands that the type-approval process generally involves the 
equipment supplier working closely with the network operator, including: 
a)  
Providing references to show that the equipment in question has operated 
safely on another network. Australian rail networks typically recognise 
references from other networks in Australia, Europe and North America. 
b)  
‘Shadow running’ the equipment on the network by integrating it into the 
network alongside existing equipment to monitor/test its performance.12 
This enables the supplier and network operator to verify that the new 
equipment is operating correctly and safely by comparing its performance 
to that of the existing equipment.  
c)  
Providing ongoing technical support for the equipment throughout the type-
approval process to rectify any issues and ensure that the equipment 
integrates with the network.  
Other industry participants 
43. 
There are a number of other suppliers of heavy rail signalling systems 
worldwide. These include:  
a)  Ansaldo STS/Hitachi Ltd (Ansaldo) – supplies signalling systems for 
mainline (freight, passenger and high speed rail) and urban/metro railways 
(conventional and driverless). Ansaldo has signalling equipment installed 
across various networks in Australia. Hitachi Ltd recently acquired a 51% 
interest in Ansaldo STS.13 
b)  Bombardier Inc (Bombardier) – supplies signalling systems for mainline 
and urban/metro rail networks. In Australia, Bombardier supplies a range of 
signalling equipment. It was also recently awarded a signalling upgrade 
project on BHP’s mine-to-port line in the Pilbara region of Western 
Australia,14 and a project involving the supply of an integrated CBTC metro 
signalling system for the Melbourne Metro Tunnel project.15 
c)  Thales Group (Thales) – supplies signalling systems for mainline and 
urban/metro rail networks globally. In Australia, the ACCC understands 
that Thales’ heavy rail signalling offering is limited. 
d)  Chinese suppliers such as China Railway Signal & Communication 
Corporation Limited (CRSC) and Beijing Traffic Control Technology Co., 
                                                 
 
12 The ACCC understands that for some signalling equipment, such as computer-based interlockings, 
this process can occur virtually without the need for physical integration. 
13 http://www.hitachi.com/New/cnews/month/2015/02/150224b.html; https://www.reuters.com/article/us-
ansaldo-m-a-hitachi/hitachi-ready-to-buy-elliotts-stake-in-ansaldo-sts-paper-idUSKCN1IM0J9.  
14 https://www.bombardier.com/content/dam/Websites/bombardiercom/countries/supporting-
documents/Bombardier-Transportation-CountryBrochure-Australia-en.pdf. 
15 https://www.bombardier.com/en/media/newsList/details.bt-20171218-bombardier-wins-contract-to-
provide-melbournes-first-high-capacity-signalling-system.bombardiercom.html. 


Proposed merger of Siemens’ rail mobility division with Alstom 
Page 10 of 18 
Ltd (Beijing TCT) – have a large presence in Asia (particularly China), but 
are not currently present in heavy rail signalling in Australia.16  
e)  CAF Signalling (CAF) – has delivered heavy rail signalling projects in a 
number of countries including in Europe and South America.17 In Australia, 
CAF has delivered rolling stock and light rail projects in Canberra, Sydney 
and Newcastle.18 The ACCC understands that CAF does not currently 
supply heavy rail signalling in Australia. 
f)  Wabtec Corporation (Wabtec) – a leading supplier of Positive Train Control 
(PTC) technology. PTC is a type of ATP system adopted widely in the 
United States and Canada. However, the ACCC understands that PTC is 
not compatible with ETCS.19  
g)  Nippon Signal – an established signalling supplier in Japan, where 
signalling standards are significantly different to those adopted by rail 
networks in Australia and other parts of the world.20 
44. 
A number of other suppliers offer certain types of signalling equipment in 
Australia but the ACCC understands that they do not supply signalling systems. 
These include Western-Cullen-Hayes (level crossing components), Frauscher 
(axle counters), Compton Greaves (relays), Voestalpine (axle counters, point 
machines and relays) and PT Hydraulic (point machines). 
Market definition 
45. 
The ACCC’s starting point for delineating relevant markets in which to assess 
the competitive effects of a proposed merger or acquisition involves identifying 
the products/services actually or potentially supplied by the merger parties. The 
ACCC then considers what other products/services and sources of supply 
constitute sufficiently close substitutes to provide a significant source of 
constraint on the merged firm.  
46. 
As noted at paragraph 22 above, the key area of overlap between Siemens and 
Alstom is in the supply of heavy rail signalling.  
Product/service dimension 
47. 
In Australia, customers typically procure signalling systems as integrated 
‘projects’ through a competitive tender process. Signalling systems are a long-
term investment for rail networks. The ACCC understands that signalling 
systems are generally procured with a view to achieving an asset life of 20-30 
years and that procurement processes occur relatively infrequently. Customers 
are typically public or private sector rail infrastructure managers/operators.   
                                                 
 
16 http://www.bj-tct.com/en/about/info.aspx?id=3; http://www.crsc.cn/news/tsi_3195_6852_6489.html.  
17 https://www.caf.net/en/innovacion-tecnologia/senalizacion.php. 
18 https://www.caf.net/en/productos-servicios/proyectos/proyecto-detalle.php?p=248; 
https://www.caf.net/en/productos-servicios/proyectos/proyecto-detalle.php?p=282; 
https://www.caf.net/en/productos-servicios/proyectos/proyecto-detalle.php?p=283. 
19 https://www.wabtec.com/uploads/annual_report/2017%2010-
K%20FINAL%20Filed%20on%202.26.18.pdf. 
20 http://www.signal.co.jp/english/aboutus/pdf/corporate_profile.pdf. 


Proposed merger of Siemens’ rail mobility division with Alstom 
Page 11 of 18 
48. 
There are broadly two types of tenders for signalling projects: 
 Dedicated signalling system tenders, which relate specifically to signalling 
systems and associated services, and  
 Broader tenders for ‘turnkey’ rail mobility solutions, which include rolling stock, 
electrification, civil works and/or other equipment and services in addition to 
signalling.  
49. 
While signalling suppliers typically bid separately for dedicated signalling 
tenders, bidding consortia are commonly formed for turnkey projects. The ACCC 
understands that such turnkey projects are less common in Australia than in 
other countries.  
50. 
In each case, these projects generally involve comprehensive signalling 
solutions and one or more signalling elements/systems supplied together with 
other services such as project specific engineering, development and project 
management, procurement and supply of the necessary signalling equipment, 
systems integration, installation, testing and, in most cases, maintenance 
services. Maintenance and operational services can also be outsourced to a 
third party provider. Some customers may also perform some services in-house, 
such as routine ‘day-to-day’ maintenance. 
51. 
The ACCC understands that customers generally consider the following key 
factors when awarding contracts for signalling projects: 
 Experience/track record (particularly in Australia and other developed 
countries) 
 Reputation 
 Existing customer relationship / type-approval(s) 
 Knowledge of the network, and 
 Financial standing and capacity, and the ability to comply with safety, risk and 
liability provisions in project documentation. 
52. 
Signalling equipment can also be supplied on a standalone basis. For example, 
customers may acquire equipment as replacement parts for existing systems, or 
suppliers that do not manufacture the relevant equipment may source it from 
original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) such as Siemens or Alstom to on-
supply. However, the ACCC understands that standalone sales of more complex 
types of signalling equipment and proprietary systems, particularly interlocking 
and ATP systems, are rare.  
53. 
On the basis of the above, the ACCC is of the preliminary view that it is 
appropriate to consider the competitive impact of the proposed merger in the 
context of one or more markets for heavy rail signalling projects for passenger 
rail networks.  
54. 
Heavy rail signalling projects may be segmented on the basis of: 
 System type/technology – the ACCC is considering whether there may be 
separate markets for projects involving the supply of CBTC technology, ETCS 
technology and ‘legacy’ signalling system technologies (for example, those 
that use older electronic relay-based and mechanical interlockings).  


Proposed merger of Siemens’ rail mobility division with Alstom 
Page 12 of 18 
 Project size (value) – the ACCC is considering whether there may be separate 
markets for major heavy rail signalling projects (such as a network-wide 
signalling system upgrade or a signalling system for a new line) and less 
significant heavy rail signalling projects (such as upgrades to part of a 
network or expansions).  
55. 
In particular, the information before the ACCC indicates that the competitive 
dynamics differ for the following types of projects: 
 Major heavy rail signalling projects – for example, a network-wide interlocking 
overhaul or signalling for a new rail line. These types of projects may involve 
the supply of newer technologies such as ETCS or CBTC. 
 Less significant heavy rail signalling projects – for example, a minor upgrade 
to interlockings or other signalling equipment, or a small expansion to an 
existing rail network (or part of a network). These types of projects may 
involve the supply of older ‘legacy’ signalling technologies. 
56. 
The ACCC is continuing to explore these issues. 
Geographic dimension 
57. 
The ACCC has not reached a conclusion on the geographic dimension of the 
markets identified above. 
58. 
While the merger parties, like other leading providers of heavy rail signalling, 
operate globally, in Australia rail operators are required to comply with the RSNL 
(a national regulatory regime) as well as State and Territory based competency 
frameworks. Equipment must also be “type-approved” for use on each network. 
While the ACCC understands that steps have been taken towards harmonising 
the type-approval process across Australia (or at least towards mutual 
recognition between networks), this has not yet been achieved.  
59. 
Despite this, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the geographic scope of the 
relevant market may be national. However, it is considering whether there may 
be narrower geographic markets. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the relevant market(s). In 
particular market participants may wish to comment on: 
 
The extent to which customers would switch to a signalling provider without 
installed equipment (“an installed base”) and/or relevant type-approval(s) in the 
event of a 5 to 10 per cent price rise, and, if so, which providers are likely to be 
credible alternatives and why.  
 
The extent to which the regulatory framework (including type-approval) limits a 
network’s options or influences a supplier’s decision regarding the supply of heavy 
rail signalling systems. 
 
Whether it is appropriate to distinguish between major and less significant heavy 
rail signalling projects. 
 
Whether a customer’s credible alternatives change depending on the size (value) 
of the project and/or the signalling technology involved. Please explain your 
answer. 


Proposed merger of Siemens’ rail mobility division with Alstom 
Page 13 of 18 
 
Whether any other distinctions may be relevant to assessing the competitive 
impact of the proposed merger. 
Issue that may raise concerns: reduction in competition 
for heavy rail signalling projects on passenger rail 
networks 
60. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed merger may substantially 
lessen competition for heavy rail signalling projects for passenger rail networks, 
in particular those involving interlocking systems and/or trackside ATP systems.  
Market concentration 
61. 
The supply of heavy rail signalling in Australia is characterised by a small 
number of large providers.  
62. 
The parties have submitted market share estimates based on order intake data 
for signalling projects awarded in Australia between 2012 and 2017. However, 
the ACCC considers that such data is subject to considerable uncertainty. In 
particular, order intake data can be distorted by one or more projects of 
significant value. In order to obtain a clearer picture of concentration, the ACCC 
is continuing to gather data, including tender and customer acquisition data. 
63. 
The ACCC’s market inquiries have revealed that there are three main suppliers 
with a presence on heavy rail passenger networks in Australia: 
a)  
Siemens 
b)  
Alstom 
c)  
Ansaldo 
64. 
Information obtained during market inquiries suggests that Siemens is the 
market leader and that Alstom and Ansaldo are the next strongest providers, 
with a significant installed base across networks in Australia.  
65. 
While Bombardier and Thales also have a presence on some passenger 
networks in Australia, the ACCC understands that their presence is limited. 
66. 
In that light, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed merger will reduce 
the already limited number of suppliers for heavy rail signalling projects in 
Australia.  
Alternative suppliers 
67. 
The ACCC’s inquiries indicate that the degree of interest from signalling 
suppliers for individual projects can vary depending on the size/value of the 
project.  
Less significant heavy rail signalling projects 
68. 
For less significant heavy rail signalling projects, such as an upgrade to part of a 
network or an expansion, market feedback suggests that the viable signalling 
providers are, in most cases, likely to be limited to those with an existing 


Proposed merger of Siemens’ rail mobility division with Alstom 
Page 14 of 18 
presence on the relevant network. This is partly due to the risks involved in 
engaging a new supplier with limited knowledge of the network and the need to 
interface with signalling on other parts of the network, as well as the time and 
cost of tendering for such projects relative to their value (including in relation to 
type-approvals). 
69. 
Market feedback indicates that customers may have up to three suppliers on 
their network(s), particularly in the case of interlockings, in order to ensure a 
degree of ongoing competition. Even though a customer may deal with the 
incumbent supplier on a given line or section of the network, customers have 
indicated that the presence of other suppliers on a network imposes a 
competitive constraint on the incumbent supplier.  
Major heavy rail signalling projects 
70. 
For major heavy rail signalling projects – for example, a network-wide 
interlocking system overhaul or signalling for a new rail line – the ACCC’s market 
inquiries suggest that there may be a greater number of credible supplier options 
including, in particular, Bombardier and Thales, the other main OEM providers of 
heavy rail signalling systems globally. This is mainly because the value of the 
project increases the incentives for potential suppliers to bid and lowers the 
relative cost of bidding. In addition, the incumbency advantage enjoyed by 
existing suppliers may be more limited for such projects. The ACCC notes that 
Bombardier recently won a tender for a major heavy rail signalling project on a 
passenger network in Australia, the Melbourne Metro Tunnel project.21  
Other participants in signalling 
71. 
There are a number of other suppliers of signalling equipment, including 
particular components such as track circuits and point machines. However, 
market feedback indicates that such suppliers do not, and are not able to, deliver 
complex heavy rail signalling projects in Australia, particularly where interlocking 
and/or ATP systems are involved.  
72. 
Similarly, although large suppliers of civil engineering services such as John 
Holland Group, Thiess, Downer Group and UGL Limited (part of CIMIC Group)22 
may take part in rail tenders and be awarded contracts to supply and manage 
the overall delivery of large ‘turnkey’ rail infrastructure projects that involve 
signalling, the ACCC understands that these suppliers generally partner with a 
signalling OEM to deliver the signalling element(s) of the project and do not have 
capability themselves to provide all of the necessary elements. 
73. 
Accordingly, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that other suppliers of signalling 
equipment and suppliers of civil engineering services are unlikely to constrain a 
combined Siemens-Alstom in relation to heavy rail signalling projects.  
                                                 
 
21 https://www.bombardier.com/en/media/newsList/details.bt-20171218-bombardier-wins-contract-to-
provide-melbournes-first-high-capacity-signalling-system.bombardiercom.html.  
22 The ACCC understands that in 2005 UGL acquired Alstom’s transport business in Australia and New 
Zealand and Alstom ceased to supply rail projects in Australia for a period. The parties have indicated that 
UGL continues to manufacture some signalling products under a non-exclusive licence from Alstom and 
using its own technology and that it has experience in the delivery of integrated signalling projects. The 
ACCC is continuing to evaluate the extent to which UGL may impose a competitive constraint on a 
combined Siemens-Alstom. 


Proposed merger of Siemens’ rail mobility division with Alstom 
Page 15 of 18 
Preliminary conclusion 
74. 
On the basis of the above, it appears that alternative suppliers may not 
sufficiently constrain a combined Siemens-Alstom, in particular in relation to less 
significant signalling projects on heavy rail passenger networks in Australia. As 
identified above, there may be greater options in relation to major projects. The 
ACCC invites further feedback from market participants. 
Potential new entrants and barriers to entry and expansion 
75. 
As set out in paragraph 43 above, the ACCC is aware of a number of other 
heavy rail signalling suppliers in other countries. These include:  
a)  
CAF 
b)  
Wabtec 
c)  
Nippon Signal 
d)  
Mitsubishi Electric 
e)  
Chinese suppliers such as CRSC and Beijing TCT. 
76. 
However, none of these suppliers have a presence in providing heavy rail 
signalling projects in Australia. 
77. 
There appear to be significant barriers to new entry/expansion into Australia, 
which include: 
 Regulatory compliance and type-approval processes and associated costs 
(see paragraphs 38 to 42 above). Market feedback indicates that the type-
approval process for interlockings, for example, can cost up to several million 
dollars and take between 12 and 30 months. Customers also incur costs 
associated with type-approving new equipment, which may result in potential 
suppliers (other than those already present on the network) not being 
considered for less significant signalling projects. The ACCC notes that these 
may be less of a barrier for major heavy rail signalling projects, in particular 
because the value of such projects can create the incentive for potential 
suppliers and rail networks to engage in the type-approval/regulatory process.  
 Other costs, including those associated with preparing bids, participating in 
tender processes and establishing oneself in Australia as a credible 
alternative.  
 Safety assurance requirements for new signalling equipment, which can 
present a significant barrier for new entrants. In particular, the ACCC 
understands that safety cases can take many years to prove following the 
development of new signalling solutions.  
 The requirement for knowledge of rail networks in Australia and demonstrated 
experience in implementing similar projects in Australia and/or other 
developed countries. 
 Incumbency advantages: some market participants have submitted that the 
presence of large incumbents discourages potential suppliers from 
participating in tenders if they do not consider that there is a reasonable 
chance of success, other than for major signalling projects where the benefits 
of winning are more likely to justify the investment. 


Proposed merger of Siemens’ rail mobility division with Alstom 
Page 16 of 18 
 High customer switching costs associated with engaging a supplier that is not 
already present on the customer’s network, including the time and cost of 
type-approvals and the risks involved in engaging a new supplier with limited 
knowledge of the network and the need to interface with signalling on other 
parts of the network. 
 Relatively small project sizes in Australia (particularly in the case of upgrades 
and expansions to existing rail networks) that may not justify the significant 
investment required to participate in tender processes, in particular when 
competing with incumbent providers with the advantages referred to above. 
 Onerous risk and liability provisions in project documentation for heavy rail 
signalling projects, which can mean that only large, well-resourced signalling 
suppliers are in a position to bid.  
 The opportunity costs relative to other projects globally and associated 
resourcing considerations (including the availability of relevant technical 
expertise). 
78. 
As discussed above, in the case of major heavy rail signalling projects these 
barriers may be less significant, particularly for major providers of ETCS or 
CBTC technology globally.  
79. 
Market feedback indicates that the likelihood of entry by Chinese suppliers such 
as CRSC and Beijing TCT is lower than for others, as these suppliers do not 
currently meet the safety and reliability standards required by Australian 
customers, and do not have acceptable signalling project references. Similarly, 
Nippon Signal does not appear to be a viable option since Japanese signalling 
standards differ significantly to those adopted by networks in Australia.  
80. 
On the basis of the above, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the threat of 
timely entry by other signalling suppliers may not be sufficient to constrain a 
combined Siemens-Alstom, with the possible exception of major projects.  
Countervailing power 
81. 
Countervailing power exists when buyers have special characteristics that 
enable them to credibly threaten to bypass the merged firm, such as by vertically 
integrating into the upstream market, establishing importing operations or 
sponsoring new entry, such that this constrains any attempted increase in 
market power by a supplier.23 
82. 
Countervailing power is more than the ability of one large buyer to negotiate 
favourable terms and price relative to other buyers. A significant proportion of 
customers must be shielded from the effects of market power if countervailing 
power is to prevent a substantial lessening of competition in the relevant 
market(s).  
83. 
The ACCC acknowledges that customers for signalling systems are typically 
sophisticated purchasers such as government departments or public bodies with 
some ability to structure tender processes to promote competitive outcomes. In 
particular, information obtained during market inquiries suggests that some 
                                                 
 
23 See ACCC Merger Guidelines, November 2008, at paras. 7.48-7.51, 
https://www.accc.gov.au/system/files/Merger%20guidelines.pdf.   


Proposed merger of Siemens’ rail mobility division with Alstom 
Page 17 of 18 
customers can and do take additional steps to encourage new entry by 
facilitating type-approval processes for potential suppliers before or during 
tenders. However, the ACCC understands that this may only occur in relation to 
major projects, where the value justifies the investment and risk, both for the rail 
network(s) and potential suppliers. The ACCC is continuing to explore this issue.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants in relation to concerns of a 
potential post-merger reduction in competition for heavy rail signalling projects for 
passenger rail networks. In particular, market participants may wish to comment on the 
following: 
 
The credible options for rail networks in Australia when procuring (i) major and (ii) 
less significant heavy rail signalling projects. 
 
The importance of experience, type-approval(s), reputation, relationships, existing 
presence in Australia, financial standing and other factors considered by 
customers when awarding contracts for heavy rail signalling projects. 
 
The nature and extent of any ‘incumbency advantage’ that providers with an 
installed base and/or existing type-approval(s)/relationship with a network have in 
respect of tenders for (i) major and (ii) less significant heavy rail signalling projects. 
 
The extent to which not having an existing presence on/relationship with a given 
network is a barrier for prospective suppliers of future heavy rail signalling projects, 
particularly less significant projects. 
 
The extent to which having more than one supplier on a network imposes a 
competitive constraint on the ‘incumbent(s)’ by creating competitive tension. 
 
The extent to which the merger affects any incumbency advantage of existing 
suppliers. 
 
The risks involved in switching to a new supplier, in particular for less significant 
projects, including requirements to interface with existing signalling on the network.  
 
The likelihood of new entry (other than by acquisition) by suppliers of signalling 
systems in other countries such as CAF, Nippon Signal, CRSC and Beijing TCT. 
 
The extent to which customers can take steps to promote new entry and assist 
potential suppliers to overcome barriers to entry, for example, by facilitating type-
approvals, bundling a number of less significant signalling projects into a larger 
project to attract wider interest, or adopting a newer type of signalling technology. 
 
Any discretion that customers have in relation to the requirement for signalling 
equipment to be type-approved and, in particular, the extent to which the 
requirement for type-approval is a barrier to entry. 
 
The extent to which OEMs such as Siemens and Alstom currently on-supply 
signalling technologies and equipment to other signalling suppliers in Australia. 
 
Whether there are any concerns in relation to the supply of particular signalling 
systems/equipment on a standalone basis. 


Proposed merger of Siemens’ rail mobility division with Alstom 
Page 18 of 18 
ACCC's future steps 
84. 
As noted above, the ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on 
each of the issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue 
that may be relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. Submissions 
should be e-mailed to mergers@accc.gov.au by 5pm on 20 September 2018. 
85. 
The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
86. 
The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 29 November 2018. 
However the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose 
of explaining the ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's 
public announcement to explain its final view. 
