 
Page 1 of 38 
 
Statement of Issues 
9 March 2017 
Tabcorp Holdings and Tatts Group – proposed merger 
Purpose 
1. 
Tabcorp Holdings Limited (Tabcorp) proposes to acquire all of the shares in 
Tatts Group Limited (Tatts) by means of a scheme of arrangement (the 
proposed merger).  
2. 
This Statement of Issues: 
 
gives the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission’s (ACCC’s) 
preliminary views on competition issues arising from the proposed merger  
 
identifies areas of further inquiry 
 
invites interested parties to submit comments and information to assist our 
assessment of the issues. 
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views 
3. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed merger is in 
section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits 
acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of 
substantially lessening competition in any market. 
4. 
The ACCC divides its preliminary views into three categories, 'issues of concern', 
'issues that may raise concerns' and ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’. 
5. 
For this matter, the ACCC has identified one issue of concern (for which Tabcorp 
has proposed a divestment) and five issues that may raise concerns. 
Issue of concern: reduced competition in electronic gaming machine monitoring 
services and repair and maintenance services in Queensland 
6. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is the proposed merger is likely to substantially 
lessen competition in Queensland for the supply of electronic gaming machine 
monitoring and repair and maintenance services by combining Maxgaming and 
Odyssey Gaming (subsidiaries of Tatts and Tabcorp respectively).  


Tabcorp Holdings and Tatts Group – proposed merger 
Page 2 of 38 
7. 
The ACCC has recently received a remedy proposal from Tabcorp to divest 
Odyssey Gaming to address this competition concern in Queensland.  
Issue that may raise concerns: removal of potential supplier of totalisator 
pooling services 
8. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed merger may substantially 
lessen competition by removing Tatts as a potential competing supplier of 
totalisator pooling services.  
9. 
The ACCC understands that Tabcorp proposes to make commitments to Racing 
and Wagering Western Australia (RWWA), the only third party domestic 
totalisator which has an existing pooling arrangement with Tabcorp. 
Issue that may raise concerns: removal of bidder for totalisator and retail 
exclusivity rights  
10. 
The proposed merger may combine the closest competitors in bidding processes 
for wagering licences (i.e. totalisator licences and exclusive retail wagering 
rights). 
Issue that may raise concerns: combining Sky Racing with Tatts’ retail wagering 
operations 
11. 
The combination of Tabcorp’s Sky Racing vision broadcasting business with the 
retail networks of Tatts may raise concerns by increasing the degree of market 
power in dealings with licensed venues and racing media rights owners. 
Issue that may raise concerns: potential foreclosure of competing suppliers of 
electronic gaming machine systems and services in NSW and Queensland 
12. 
The proposed merger results in increased vertical integration of the licensed 
monitoring function in NSW and Queensland with the merger parties’ 
businesses, which supply electronic gaming machine systems and services. This 
may result in foreclosure or increased barriers to expansion for competing 
suppliers of electronic gaming machine services.  
Issue that may raise concern: reduced in competition in the supply of electronic 
gaming machine repair and maintenance services in Victoria 
13. 
The proposed merger may raise competition concerns in relation to the supply of 
electronic gaming machine repair and maintenance services in Victoria by 
removing a substantial competitor. 
Issue unlikely to raise concerns: reduced competition between totalisators for 
premium wagering customers  
14. 
The proposed merger appears unlikely to result in a substantial lessening of 
competition for the supply of pari-mutuel wagering to premium wagering 
customers, including rebates and other incentives offered to attract and retain 
these customers. Premium wagering customers tend to place bets on races with 
totalisators around the world. 
 


Tabcorp Holdings and Tatts Group – proposed merger 
Page 3 of 38 
Issue unlikely to raise concerns: bidding for exclusive licences for electronic 
gaming machine monitoring, Keno and lotteries 
15. 
The proposed merger appears unlikely to remove a key or unique bidder for 
exclusive licences for monitoring services, Keno and lotteries.  
Issue unlikely to raise concern: reduced competition for supply of Keno 
16. 
The proposed merger appears unlikely to substantially lessen competition in 
relation to the supply of Keno.  
Making a submission 
17. 
The ACCC is seeking submissions from interested parties.  Detailed discussion 
of these and other issues, along with specific questions, is contained in this 
Statement of Issues.  
18. 
Interested parties should provide submissions by no later than 5pm on 24 March 
2017. Responses may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: 
“Submission re: Tabcorp – Tatts (attention Sarah Hilborn/Rebecca Burns)”. If 
you would like to discuss the matter with ACCC officers over the telephone or in 
person, or have any questions about this Statement of Issues, please contact 
Sarah Hilborn on (03) 9658 6409 or Rebecca Burns on (03) 9290 1875.  
19. 
The ACCC anticipates making a final decision on 4 May 2017. However, this 
timeline can change. To keep abreast of possible changes in relation to timing 
and to find relevant documents, interested parties should visit the Mergers 
Register on the ACCC's website at www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
Confidentiality of submissions 
20. 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We 
will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) 
unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation 
or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition 
and Consumer Act 2010.  Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where possible so that you may 
have an opportunity to be heard.  Therefore, if the information provided to the 
ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’ 
21. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well 
as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
22. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 


Tabcorp Holdings and Tatts Group – proposed merger 
Page 4 of 38 
Timeline 
Date 
Event 
25 November 2016 
ACCC commenced review 
9 March 2017 
ACCC publication of Statement of Issues 
24 March 2017 
Deadline for submissions from interested parties in 
response to this Statement of Issues 
4 May 2017 
Proposed date for ACCC final decision  
 
The parties 
The acquirer – Tabcorp  
23. 
Tabcorp is a gambling entertainment company listed on the Australian Stock 
Exchange. Tabcorp operates its business under three business divisions: 
Wagering and Media, Gaming Services and Keno.  
Wagering and Media  
24. 
Tabcorp’s Wagering and Media business comprises: 
 
a retail network of TAB1 outlets and licensed venues (hotels, pubs, clubs) in 
Victoria, NSW and the ACT which supply racing and sports wagering 
products (referred to as a retail network in this Statement of Issues).  
 
a national online presence and telephone betting service supplying racing 
and sports wagering products through the TAB and tab.com.au brands, and 
Luxbet, Tabcorp’s wholly-owned Northern-Territory licensed bookmaker; 
 
computerised racing game, ‘Trackside’, which features virtual 
thoroughbred, greyhound and harness racing in TAB agencies; and 
 
Sky Racing (Sky) which produces three racing vision channels (Sky 1, Sky 
2 and Sky Thoroughbred Central) broadcasting thoroughbred, harness and 
greyhound racing. Sky distributes audiovisual racing content via 
commercial subscription television (which is broadcast into TAB outlets) 
and home subscription television (via Foxtel or Optus networks). Tabcorp 
also operates Sky Sports Radio, which broadcasts audio racing and other 
sports content in NSW and the ACT.  
25. 
In each of Victoria, NSW and the ACT, Tabcorp is licensed by the State/Territory 
Government to be the exclusive supplier of off-course totalisator2 and retail 
wagering services in the state/territory.  
                                                 
 
1  TAB (Totalisator Agency Board) commonly refers to the wagering totalisator operator in a 
given state/territory or a retail wagering outlet/network operated on an exclusive basis by the 
licensed wagering operator in a given state/territory. 


Tabcorp Holdings and Tatts Group – proposed merger 
Page 5 of 38 
Gaming Services 
26. 
Tabcorp’s gaming services division comprises: 
 
Tabcorp Gaming Solutions (TGS); and 
 
Intecq, which has two business divisions, Odyssey Gaming (Odyssey) and 
eBET Gaming Systems (eBET). 
27. 
TGS provides a ‘full service solution’ to gaming venues in NSW and Victoria, 
which includes: 
 
finance for electronic gaming machines (EGMs, otherwise known as 
‘pokies’); 
 
EGM repair and maintenance; 
 
consulting services (e.g. training and advice on venue refurbishment and 
regulatory compliance); and 
 
re-supply of gaming and promotional systems and related services.  
28. 
Intecq (via its eBET business) supplies gaming and promotional management 
systems and related services in NSW, Victoria, Queensland and Tasmania. 
29. 
Intecq (via its Odyssey business) is a licensed monitoring operator in 
Queensland, providing gaming monitoring services to gaming venues for 
compliance and taxation purposes.  
Keno  
30. 
Tabcorp holds a licence to operate Keno in Victoria, Queensland, the ACT and 
NSW.  
31. 
Tabcorp distributes Keno products in retail outlets including pubs, clubs and TAB 
outlets in the above-mentioned states and territories. Tabcorp also distributes 
Keno products online, which can be accessed in the ACT, Western Australia, 
South Australia and Tasmania. 
The target – Tatts 
32. 
Tatts is a supplier of lotteries, wagering and gaming products and services and is 
listed on the Australian Stock Exchange. Tatts operates its business under three 
divisions: Lotteries, Wagering and Gaming. 
Lotteries 
33. 
Tatts is the operator of all major public lotteries, on an exclusive basis, in all 
Australian states and territories, with the exception of Western Australia, which is 
the only remaining state-owned and operated lottery.  
                                                                                                                                              
 
2  For an explanation of totalisators, refer to the Industry Background (Wagering and media) 
section below. 


Tabcorp Holdings and Tatts Group – proposed merger 
Page 6 of 38 
34. 
Tatts also operates a Keno product in South Australia as part of its South 
Australian Lotteries master agency agreement with the Lotteries Commission of 
South Australia. Tatts’ Keno products are distributed through retail outlets 
including pubs, clubs, TAB outlets and newsagents in South Australia. 
Wagering 
35. 
Tatts’ wagering business comprises: 
 
a retail network of UBET outlets and licensed venues in Queensland, South 
Australia, Tasmania and the Northern Territory, which supply racing and 
sports wagering products (referred to as a retail network in this Statement 
of Issues); 
 
a national online presence and telephone betting service supplying racing 
and sports wagering products through the UBET brand; and 
 
RadioTAB, which broadcasts audio racing content in Queensland, South 
Australia, Tasmania and the Northern Territory.  
36. 
In each of Queensland, South Australia, Tasmania and the Northern Territory, 
Tatts (UBET) is licensed by the State/Territory Government to be the exclusive 
supplier of off-course totalisator and retail wagering services in the state/territory. 
Gaming 
37. 
Tatts is a provider of gaming and promotional management systems and related 
services, and EGM monitoring services through its gaming segment known as 
MAX, which comprises, Maxgaming and Bytecraft. 
 
Maxgaming supplies gaming and promotional management systems and 
related services in Queensland, NSW and Victoria.  
 
Bytecraft supplies EGM repair and maintenance to gaming venues in all 
states and territories in Australia.  
 
Maxgaming is a licensed monitoring operator in Queensland, NSW and the 
Northern Territory.  
Other industry participants 
Racing industry 
38. 
There are a number of bodies in Australia that represent the interests of different 
stakeholders within the racing industry. There are approximately 371 
thoroughbred, 121 harness racing and 76 greyhound racing clubs in Australia. 
39. 
In each state and territory, there is a principal racing authority (PRA) responsible 
for the management and administration of racing industry funding in that 
jurisdiction. PRAs include Racing NSW, Racing Victoria, Racing Queensland 
and Racing and Wagering Western Australia (RWWA). 


Tabcorp Holdings and Tatts Group – proposed merger 
Page 7 of 38 
Licensed gaming venues  
40. 
Licensed gaming venues (hotels, pubs and clubs) supply a range of gambling 
facilities, including one or more of the following: 
 
retail wagering outlets (TABs) with cash and electronic betting terminals 
and display of Sky audio and visual racing content  
 
gaming floors with EGMs 
 
a computerised Keno system. 
Corporate bookmakers 
41. 
Corporate bookmakers typically have a national presence, supplying racing and 
sports wagering products through online and telephone channels. Corporate 
bookmakers are typically licensed in the Northern Territory and supply fixed odds 
and tote derivative3 wagering products. 
42. 
The following are the major corporate bookmakers in Australia: 
 
SportsBet: a wholly owned subsidiary of Paddy Power Betfair, listed on the 
Irish Stock Exchange. 
 
William Hill: listed on the London Stock Exchange and operates the 
Centrebet, Tom Waterhouse and William Hill (previously Sportingbet) 
brands.  
 
Ladbrokes: listed on the London Stock Exchange and operates the 
Betstar, Bookmaker and Ladbrokes brands. 
 
Bet365: privately-owned bookmaker headquartered in England. 
 
CrownBet: a subsidiary of Crown Resorts Limited.  
43. 
Crown Resorts Limited also own Betfair Australia, a betting exchange.4 
Racing media broadcasters 
44. 
Racing.com, a joint venture between Racing Victoria and Seven West Media, 
was officially launched in August 2015 and currently broadcasts Victorian 
thoroughbred racing content online and on free-to-air digital and subscription 
television.   
45. 
Racing.com sublicenses Victorian thoroughbred racing content to CrownBet, 
Sportsbet, William Hill, Ladbrokes and Bet365 for use on their digital platforms.    
                                                 
 
3  A fixed odds wagering product whereby the payout odds replicate those available on the 
totalisators. Customers are able to bet on derivative products such as ‘top tote’ where they 
receive the best odds available across the three totalisators. 
4  Betfair Australia is the only betting exchange currently operating in Australia. A betting 
exchange is an intermediary which allows parties to stake money on opposing outcomes of 
an event and earns revenue by charging a commission on a customer’s net winning. 


Tabcorp Holdings and Tatts Group – proposed merger 
Page 8 of 38 
46. 
Racing.com’s rights agreement with Racing Victoria is non-exclusive, and Sky 
also holds rights to this content, by which it is broadcast on its subscription 
channels and shown throughout the retail network. 
Industry background 
Wagering and media 
47. 
In Australia, wagering is largely based on thoroughbred, harness or greyhound 
racing or sports events (i.e. other sports events outside the racing codes 
mentioned, including overseas events). Minor forms of wagering also exist, such 
as wagering on the outcomes of elections, reality television shows or novelty 
events. 
48. 
Racing has long been the traditional staple of wagering in Australia and 
continues to account for the majority of wagering industry turnover. However, the 
growth in racing wagering has slowed in recent years as sports wagering has 
increased in popularity.  
49. 
Wagering occurs through various channels: retail (at TAB outlets or licensed 
venues), digital (online via desktop, tablet or mobile apps), over the phone and 
on-course at race meetings. 
50. 
Wagering products in Australia are supplied by totalisator operators licensed by 
each of the state and territory governments – there are three totalisator 
operators in Australia: Tabcorp, Tatts (UBET) and the Western Australian 
Government (RWWA) – as well as bookmakers and Betfair, the only existing 
betting exchange.  
51. 
In general terms, wagering products take the form of pari-mutuel wagering 
(exclusively provided by the totalisator operators) and fixed odds wagering 
(provided by both totalisator operators and corporate bookmakers). 
 
Pari-mutuel wagering involves the ‘pooling’ of all bets by a totalisator 
operator – the customers odds may change up until the close of betting on 
the event and the final odds are not known until the completion of the 
relevant event. A totalisator’s revenue on any given event is ‘risk free’ and 
is a function of the size of the pool and the take-out rate. 
 
Fixed odds wagering involves a bookmaker acting as the counterparty to 
the customer’s bet – the customer is informed of the odds they will receive 
at the time their bet is placed. Bookmaker revenue on fixed odds betting on 
any given event involves risk as the revenue on an event is dependent on 
the outcome of that event. 
Key trends in wagering 
52. 
Tabcorp and Tatts, which in combination, hold exclusive licences to supply 
totalisator and retail wagering services in all states and territories (excluding 
Western Australia), remain the largest providers of wagering products in 
Australia. The wagering products they supply include totalisator and fixed odds 
wagering, delivered on-course, off-course in retail outlets and online.  


Tabcorp Holdings and Tatts Group – proposed merger 
Page 9 of 38 
53. 
Corporate bookmakers, which provide online wagering products (fixed odds 
racing and sports wagering products), have grown their share of wagering 
turnover in recent years.  
54. 
This appears to have occurred for a combination of reasons: 
 
Significant growth in overall wagering turnover, largely driven by growth in 
online wagering as the portability and adoption of smartphones and tablets 
has increased the ease and frequency of wagering. 
 
Some retail wagering customers having an increased preference for online 
wagering. 
 
Some wagering customers having an increased preference for fixed odds 
and tote-derivative wagering (a fixed odds product that derives its pricing by 
reference to the prices available in totalisator pools and may involve a 
stretch or bonus above the derived pari-mutuel odds).  
 
Growth in wagering customers attracted by sports wagering. 
55. 
In summary, the key trends in wagering in Australia in recent years are: 
 
There has been a structural shift from retail to online wagering. Totalisators 
are facing increasing competition from corporate bookmakers. 
 
Fixed odds wagering has become increasingly popular, with reduced pari-
mutuel (totalisator) wagering turnover. 
 
Sports wagering turnover has increased on average 20 per cent each year 
(from 2009/10 to 2013/14) and is driving the bulk of wagering growth. 
Racing industry funding 
56. 
The racing industry in Australia is heavily reliant on wagering revenue as a 
primary source of funding, and to a lesser extent, on payments received for the 
supply of racing media content and rights, sponsorship and Government 
contributions. 
57. 
Wagering operators, in addition to paying wagering taxes to state governments, 
are required to pay product/racefield fees to racing authorities for racing product 
information.  
58. 
While fees are paid by both totalisators and corporate bookmakers, product fees 
contributed by Tabcorp and Tatts, as the exclusive suppliers of off-course 
totalisator and retail wagering services in the relevant state or territory, account 
for the significant majority of racing industry funding. 
59. 
Funding received by the racing industry based on wagering revenue can be 
impacted from multiple sources, including:  
 
competition from sports betting 
 
substitution from pari-mutuel to fixed odds products, and 
 
increased competition from corporate bookmakers. 


Tabcorp Holdings and Tatts Group – proposed merger 
Page 10 of 38 
Totalisator pools and take-out rates 
60. 
In totalisator or pari-mutuel wagering, an operator establishes ‘totalisator pools’ 
for individual racing events. All pari-mutuel bets accepted by the operator on the 
relevant event are consolidated into the totalisator pool created for that event, 
and the pari-mutuel operator deducts from the pool a predetermined fixed 
commission percentage (take-out rate) which is regulated through state and 
territory government legislation. The remainder of the pool (referred to as the 
‘dividend pool’) is divided by the number of units bet on the successful outcome 
and is available for distribution to the winning customers. 
61. 
Totalisator pools can be stand-alone (i.e. where only one wagering operator 
manages the pool) or, they can include ‘guest’ totalisator operators that have 
smaller pool sizes, placing bets into a ‘host’ totalisator operator’s pool that has 
larger pools and deeper liquidity.  
62. 
Pooling arrangements give smaller totalisator operators access to consolidated 
odds in a pool with increased liquidity which provides improved stability of 
projected odds. Guest totalisators pay a fee to the pool host for pooling services 
and are subject to the terms of the pooling arrangement negotiated with the host 
totalisator. RWWA currently acquires from Tabcorp access to the SuperTAB pool 
operated by Tabcorp.  
Racing media 
63. 
The ACCC understands that there is a strong connection between wagering 
activity and access to racing media (particularly racing vision), with history 
demonstrating that wagering activity on a given race drops substantially when 
racing vision is restricted. Therefore, competitive effects in markets for the 
acquisition and supply, or broadcast of racing media, can impact on the 
competitive dynamics in related wagering markets. 
64. 
As the racing industry is reliant on revenue from wagering activity for funding, 
racing bodies and wagering operators have a vested interest in ensuring that 
wagering customers have access to racing vision. 
Gaming 
65. 
All states and territories in Australia have EGMs available at licensed gaming 
venues (such as pubs, clubs and hotels), with the exception of Western 
Australia, where EGMs are only available in the casino. 
Licensed monitoring operators 
66. 
State and territory governments require EGMs to be monitored for integrity, 
compliance and taxation purposes. Commercial operators are licensed to 
provide these monitoring services in each state and territory (except the ACT 
and Western Australia).  


Tabcorp Holdings and Tatts Group – proposed merger 
Page 11 of 38 
67. 
The licensed monitoring operator collects a large amount of data necessary to 
carry out its monitoring functions. This includes information related to ‘metering’ 
and ‘events’.  
 
Metering data is transactional data associated with game play of an EGM 
e.g. wins, turnover and payouts. 
 
Event data relates to certain activities of the EGM, which could give rise to 
potential security issues such as EGM resets. 
Gaming and promotional management systems and related services 
68. 
Gaming and promotional management systems and related services comprise 
software and hardware designed to allow gaming venues to manage and 
enhance the operation of their EGMs. The systems and services can include: 
 
software and hardware for producing and reading venue membership 
cards, and for tracking and reporting on player activity (e.g. food and drink 
purchases, gaming activity) facilitated by membership cards 
 
software facilitating player loyalty programs and venue loyalty programs 
 
software allowing venues to market to and communicate with customers 
 
cashless gaming solutions such as ticket-in ticket out (TITO) and card-
based gaming systems. These systems allow credit to be loaded onto 
tickets, cards or tokens and used in other EGMs before being cashed out at 
the kiosk 
 
player kiosks whereby players can check their loyalty status 
 
business intelligence software, which facilitates the analysis of data at the 
venue, and 
 
in-venue / multi-venue jackpot systems. 
69. 
Some gaming and promotional management systems and related services can 
be provided on a stand-alone basis, although often venues acquire a bundle of 
systems and services as part of an integrated solution. 
70. 
Gaming and promotional management systems and related services gather a 
large amount of information including customer data and gaming data.  
 
Customer data relates to information collected about customers using a 
membership card in relation to their use of gaming machines and 
purchases of food and drink at a venue. 
 
Gaming data is information about EGMs such as the number and type of 
EGMs in a particular venue or area, and the financial transactions and 
metrics relating to the operation of those EGMs. 


Tabcorp Holdings and Tatts Group – proposed merger 
Page 12 of 38 
Lotteries 
71. 
Over the last decade, there has been a trend towards the privatisation of state-
run lottery operations. Tatts is now the exclusive supplier of major lottery 
services in every Australian state and territory, except Western Australia (where 
lotteries continue to be operated by the state government).  
72. 
There are a variety of lotteries products available in Australia. Some common 
product titles include Tattslotto, Gold Lotto, Lotto, X-Lotto and Powerball. Scratch 
tickets or ‘scratchies’ are also a commonly known form of instant lotteries. 
73. 
Lotteries products are commonly sold through newsagents and convenience 
outlets. More recently, lotteries products have also been made available online 
and via mobile applications. 
Keno 
74. 
Keno is a game where a player wagers that their chosen or selected numbers 
match numbers randomly selected via a computer system or a ball-draw device.  
75. 
Tabcorp holds the following state and territory Keno licences: Victoria, 
Queensland, the ACT and NSW. Tabcorp also offers Keno online in the ACT, 
Western Australia, South Australia and Tasmania. Tatts operates Keno in South 
Australia under its South Australian lotteries licence. 
76. 
A computerised Keno game operates in certain licensed gaming venues 
throughout most Australian jurisdictions. Keno is also offered online in some 
states and territories.  
77. 
Keno is generally linked between licensed gaming venues within a state or 
territory enabling the operator to offer larger jackpot prizes. 
Future with and without the acquisition  
78. 
Section 50 of the Act prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect or be likely 
to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. In assessing 
a proposed acquisition pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC considers 
the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future competitive 
environment post-acquisition if the acquisition proceeds (the “with” position) to 
the likely future competitive environment if the acquisition does not proceed (the 
“without” position) to determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in any relevant market. 
79. 
In December 2016, a consortium led by Macquarie Bank and comprising three 
other financial investors (First State Super, Morgan Stanley Infrastructure and 
KKR, together the Pacific Consortium) made a rival indicative proposal to 
acquire Tatts, which was rejected.  
80. 
On the basis of the information currently available, the ACCC considers that the 
likely future without the proposed merger is the status quo, where Tatts will 
continue to apply a similar competitive constraint in the relevant markets.  


Tabcorp Holdings and Tatts Group – proposed merger 
Page 13 of 38 
Previous ACCC decisions 
81. 
In 2006, Tabcorp proposed to acquire UNiTAB Limited, the exclusive operator of 
the off-course totalisator and retail wagering services in Queensland, South 
Australia and Northern Territory. The merged entity would have controlled all 
major totalisator pools in Australia if the acquisition proceeded. 
82. 
After a public review, the ACCC concluded that the proposed acquisition was 
likely to substantially lessen competition in certain wagering-related markets. 
The ACCC was concerned that this proposed acquisition would have 
substantially reduced competition in bidding for future state-based wagering 
licences and would remove UNiTAB as the only alternative supplier of pooling 
services, which may have had significant consequences for potential new 
entrants seeking to obtain a state-based pari-mutuel wagering licence. 
83. 
UNiTAB was subsequently acquired by Tatts in 2006. 
Market definition 
84. 
The key areas of overlap between Tabcorp and Tatts are: 
 
Retail wagering / totalisator operations: Tabcorp and Tatts each operate 
off-course totalisators and retail wagering networks pursuant to exclusive 
totalisator and retail licences granted by state and territory governments. 
They supply pari-mutuel and fixed odds wagering products through retail 
outlets (TAB agencies and licensed venues) located in the states and 
territories in which they are licensed.  
 
Online and telephone wagering: Tabcorp and Tatts both operate online 
and have telephone betting services supplying pari-mutuel and fixed odds 
wagering services nationally. 
 
Gaming and promotional management systems and related services: 
Tabcorp and Tatts both supply gaming and promotional management 
systems and related services to gaming venues. 
 
EGM monitoring services: Tabcorp and Tatts both supply EGM 
monitoring services in Queensland. 
Wagering 
85. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that a national market exists for the supply of 
wagering products comprising both pari-mutuel and fixed odds wagering across 
racing and sports events in retail and online channels. 
86. 
In reaching this preliminary review, the ACCC has had regard to dramatic 
changes in the wagering industry over the last 5 to 8 years, with the predominant 
trends occurring being an increased level of substitution between wagering on 
pari-mutuel to fixed odds products, racing to sports events, and retail to online 
channels.  
87. 
A key consideration for the ACCC is the ease with which customers can switch 
between the different wagering products, events and channels. On the demand-
side, consumers appear to be able to readily switch from pari-mutuel to fixed 


Tabcorp Holdings and Tatts Group – proposed merger 
Page 14 of 38 
odds wagering, and vice versa. It also appears that a significant proportion of 
wagering customers who have adopted portable electronic devices are shifting 
from wagering in retail outlets to online wagering.  
88. 
Although there may be less demand-side substitutability between wagering on 
racing and wagering on other sporting events, all major wagering operators 
provide consumers with the option to wager on both racing and sports. Therefore 
on the supply-side, a broader product market appears appropriate. 
89. 
The ACCC is continuing to consider whether: 
 
separate markets exist for the supply of wagering products (and rebates) 
to: (i) premium wagering customers; and (ii) recreational wagering 
customers;  
 
separate (upstream) markets exist for the acquisition of key inputs which 
may be necessary to supply totalisator and retail wagering operations, 
including: (i) bidding for totalisator licences and retail exclusivity rights with 
state and territory governments; (ii) access to racing vision; and (iii) access 
to pooling arrangements; 
or whether there is a single wagering market that encompasses all functional 
levels across the supply chain for the supply of wagering products. 
90. 
The ACCC is also considering whether the competitive effects of the merger in 
relation to the acquisition of key inputs (particularly for other existing or potential 
wagering operators) will have a material impact on downstream competition in a 
national market for the supply of wagering products.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary views of the 
relevant wagering-related markets. In particular, market participants may wish to 
comment on: 
 The extent to which customers switch between wagering on racing and wagering on 
sports (and vice versa).  
 The extent to which retail wagering customers are progressively adopting online 
wagering technologies. 
 Whether any potential reduction in upstream competition for the acquisition of key 
inputs (including access to pooling arrangements or the competitiveness of bidding 
processes for totalisator and retail licences) is likely to have a material impact on 
downstream competition, and therefore customers, in a national wagering market.  
 Whether separate wagering product markets exist or separate functional markets 
for different levels of the wagering supply chain exist. 


Tabcorp Holdings and Tatts Group – proposed merger 
Page 15 of 38 
Media 
91. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the following markets may be relevant for 
assessing the potential competition effects of the proposed merger: 
 
national markets for the acquisition of racing media content and rights. 
There may be separate markets for each mode of delivery: (i) digital; (ii) 
free-to-air television; and (iii) domestic subscription television; and 
 
a national market for the broadcasting of racing media content, comprising 
all delivery platforms including digital, free-to-air and domestic subscription 
television. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary views about 
the definition of the relevant racing media markets. In particular, market participants 
may wish to comment on: 
 The commercial incentives of rights holders to bundle or unbundle racing media 
content for separate modes of delivery. 
 The commercial incentives of wagering operators to acquire racing media rights for 
discrete delivery platforms. 
 The commercial incentives of rights holders to supply racing media rights on an 
exclusive or non-exclusive basis. 
Gaming 
Product/service markets 
92. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is the relevant product/service markets for 
assessing the competitive impacts of the proposed merger are: 
 
gaming and promotional management systems and related services 
 
EGM repair and maintenance services  
 
licensed monitoring operator services. 
93. 
The ACCC understands the relevant Queensland legislation requires licensed 
monitoring operators to provide a number of services that are additional to the 
services directly relating to the monitoring of EGMs, for example, EGM repair 
and maintenance services. Therefore, the ACCC’s preliminary view is the 
product/service market, ‘licensed monitoring operator services’ encompasses a 
broader range of services than just monitoring EGMs. 
Geographic markets 
94. 
The gaming services industry is legislated and regulated, and the relevant 
gaming licences issued, at a state/territory level. Therefore, the ACCC’s 
preliminary view is the relevant geographic markets are state/territory-based. 


Tabcorp Holdings and Tatts Group – proposed merger 
Page 16 of 38 
Lotteries 
95. 
Tabcorp and Tatts do not overlap in the supply of lotteries products in any 
Australian state or territory. 
96. 
Tabcorp and Tatts may be potential bidders for future state or territory exclusive 
lotteries licences. The ACCC is continuing to consider whether separate 
(upstream) markets exist for the acquisition of key inputs necessary to supply 
lotteries products in a given state/territory (i.e. a market for bidding for the lottery 
licence) or whether there are broader markets that encompass all functional 
levels across the supply chain of lotteries products. 
Keno 
97. 
Tabcorp and Tatts overlap in the supply, or ability to supply, Keno products in 
South Australia and Victoria.  
98. 
Tabcorp and Tatts may be potential bidders for future state or territory exclusive 
Keno licences. The ACCC is continuing to consider whether separate (upstream) 
markets exist for the acquisition of key inputs necessary to supply Keno products 
in a given state/territory or whether there are broader markets that encompass 
all functional levels across the supply chain of Keno products. 
Wagering related issues  
99. 
The proposed merger combines entities which: 
 
between them, hold the exclusive right to supply totalisator and retail 
wagering services in each of the states and territories in Australia (except 
Western Australia)  
 
operate two leading businesses supplying fixed odds wagering services 
(TAB and UBET) and a separate corporate bookmaking business (Luxbet). 
100. As noted above, the ACCC's preliminary view is that a national market exists for 
the supply of wagering products to customers comprising both pari-mutuel and 
fixed odds wagering across racing and sports events in retail and online 
channels.  
101. The ACCC has not formed a concluded view whether separate (upstream) 
markets exist for the acquisition of key inputs which may be necessary to supply 
totalisator and retail wagering operations, including: (i) bidding for totalisator 
licences and retail exclusivity rights with state and territory governments; (ii) 
access to racing vision; and (iii) access to pooling arrangements.  
102. In any event, the ACCC will also be considering the impact of any reduction in 
the ability of other existing or potential wagering operators to acquire key inputs 
in the context of competitive impacts in a broader national market for the supply 
of wagering services.  
103. As noted above, Tatts and Tabcorp hold exclusive licenses to supply totalisator 
and retail wagering services in different states/territories. Putting aside 
competition for licences, the ACCC considers that competition between Tabcorp 
and Tatts primarily occurs online and over the phone, in competition with several 


Tabcorp Holdings and Tatts Group – proposed merger 
Page 17 of 38 
corporate bookmakers. There is limited direct competitive overlap between the 
retail operations of the merger parties in separate states/territories. Data 
provided by the merger parties suggests that cross-border totalisator betting 
between those states, through online and telephone channels, is limited.  
104. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the corporate bookmakers currently 
compete strongly with the retail, online and telephone wagering operations of the 
merger parties in the supply of wagering products to recreational customers.  
105. Some market participants have indicated that Tatts (UBET) competes 
aggressively with its fixed odds pricing compared to Tabcorp and other corporate 
bookmakers. However, to date the majority of market participants have indicated 
that UBET is not a uniquely vigorous and effective competitor for the supply of 
fixed odds wagering. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants in relation to the following: 
 The extent to which Tatts is a vigorous and effective competitor to Tabcorp and 
corporate bookmakers for fixed odds wagering.  
 Whether corporate bookmakers will constrain the merged entity in the supply of 
fixed odds wagering products. 
 Whether competition from corporate bookmakers for retail wagering customers will 
provide sufficient constraint on the merged entity such that it will invest in its retail 
operations to attract and retain customers? 
Issue that may raise concerns: removal of potential 
supplier of pooling services  
106. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed merger may substantially 
lessen competition by removing the only other potential supplier of pooling 
services in Australia. This could result in the merged entity having increased 
market power in its dealings with totalisator operators (either existing operators 
or potential future entrants) seeking to negotiate a pooling arrangement.  
107. The ACCC considers that, to the extent that the proposed merger would 
increase the merged entity’s market power in negotiating pooling arrangements 
with existing or future totalisator operators, this may: 
 
adversely affect the terms on which pooling arrangements are offered; 
 
increase barriers to entry and deter potential bidders in future wagering 
licence processes; and 
 
enable the merged entity to restrict the level of rebates offered by a guest 
totalisator to premium wagering customers.  
108. Tabcorp currently provides pooling services to RWWA, pursuant to an 
agreement which extends out to 2024.  
109. Tatts pools the totalisators which it operates in Queensland, South Australia, 
Tasmania and the Northern Territory. The ACCC understands that Tatts has 


Tabcorp Holdings and Tatts Group – proposed merger 
Page 18 of 38 
never provided pooling services to third parties and does not presently have the 
system capabilities to do so. The ACCC is continuing to investigate the required 
investment and Tatts’ ability and commercial incentives to commence supplying 
pooling services to other totalisators absent the proposed merger.  
Removal of Tatts as a potential provider of pooling services to RWWA 
110. The WA TAB is the only totalisator in Australia not operated by either Tabcorp or 
Tatts. RWWA, which operates the WA TAB, is the only third party totalisator in 
Australia which has a pooling arrangement with Tabcorp to obtain access to 
Tabcorp's SuperTAB pool. 
111. Market inquiries have indicated that by entering a pooling arrangement with a 
third party, RWWA is able to compete more effectively as a totalisator. Doing so 
enables RWWA to offer a more stable pool with deeper liquidity, resulting in 
fewer fluctuations for odds than might occur in a smaller stand-alone pool.  
112. Tatts has not previously entered into pooling arrangements with third parties. 
However, its presence as a domestic operator of a totalisator pool may impose a 
level of competitive constraint on Tabcorp when Tabcorp is negotiating third 
party pooling arrangements.  
113. Some market participants are concerned that the proposed merger will leave the 
WA TAB (either RWWA or a future potential owner) with no possible alternative 
but to enter pooling arrangements with the merged entity.  
114. The ACCC is continuing to investigate the extent to which Tatts would have the 
ability and incentive to offer pooling services absent the proposed merger.  
Increased barriers to entry 
115. The ACCC is concerned that, to the extent that the proposed merger removes 
Tatts as a potential supplier of pooling services, this may increase barriers to 
entry by deterring or preventing others from bidding for wagering licences.  
116. The ACCC understands that any operator of a totalisator licence (outside of 
NSW and Victoria) is likely to need to acquire pooling services. An inability to 
enter into pooling arrangements on reasonable commercial terms may materially 
impact on both the competitiveness and viability of such an operator and their 
ability to credibly bid for wagering licences.  
117. This will be in circumstances where the merged entity will likely be the only 
supplier of pooling services in Australia and a competing bidder for any wagering 
licence.  
118. The ACCC is continuing to investigate whether the removal of Tatts, to the 
extent that it is a potential supplier of pooling services, is likely to raise prevent or 
deter potential bidders for future wagering licences. 


Tabcorp Holdings and Tatts Group – proposed merger 
Page 19 of 38 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the potential for the 
proposed merger to reduce competition for pooling services.  In particular market 
participants may wish to comment on the following: 
 The extent to which Tatts, as a potential supplier of pooling services, currently 
constrains Tabcorp when supplying pooling services. 
 The extent to which Tatts has the ability to supply pooling services or, if not, the 
incentive to obtain the capabilities to do so. For example, whether Tatts is likely to 
have strong commercial incentives to invest in its system capabilities such that it is 
able to provide pooling services to third party totalisators (i.e. is Tatts likely to 
implement ITSP technology, the globally-accepted protocol for inter-tote 
communications, to facilitate third party pooling?)  
 The nature of investment required (cost and time) to implement ITSP technology.   
 The likely effect of the removal of Tatts as a potential provider of pooling services, 
on the barriers to entry for potential bidders in future wagering licence processes. 
 The extent to which Tabcorp’s extension of its existing agreement in respect of the 
provision of pooling service to the WA TAB on similar terms would address the 
removal of Tatts as a potential supplier of pooling services. 
Proposed commitments to RWWA 
Tabcorp has proposed commitments to RWWA in relation to its ongoing provision of 
pooling services.   
Tabcorp has agreed to continue to provide RWWA, or any acquirer of the WA TAB, 
with pooling services on equivalent commercial terms for up to 27 years.  The supply 
of pooling services post 2024 is conditional on Tabcorp holding the Victorian licence 
after its expiry in 2024, or if Tabcorp does not hold that licence, it must hold another 
wagering licence with a substantial totalisator pool so that it can provide access to 
alternative or comparable pools.   
The ACCC has recently been advised of the proposed commitments to RWWA and is 
continuing to consider whether such commitments are likely to effectively remedy 
potential competition concerns. 
Issue that may raise concerns: removal of bidder for 
licences to supply totalisator and retail wagering services   
119. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that removing Tatts as a potential competitor to 
Tabcorp for future licences to supply totalisator and retail wagering services may 
lessen competition for those licences and deter others from bidding for them.  
120. The ACCC has received mixed views about the ability of new entrants to credibly 
bid for totalisator licences and retail exclusivity rights.  
121. Some market participants consider that existing barriers to entry for potential 
bidders are high given that Tabcorp and Tatts have a strong incumbency 
advantage. It has been indicated that Tabcorp and Tatts are the only two 
credible bidders for licences to supply totalisator and retail wagering services, 


Tabcorp Holdings and Tatts Group – proposed merger 
Page 20 of 38 
given their retail wagering and totalisator experience, expertise and sunk 
investment costs.  
122. Market inquiries have suggested that new entrants are unlikely to be a credible 
alternative for future totalisator licences, and may be less likely to consider 
bidding for a licence if the merger proceeds, due to: 
 
Lack of expertise in operating retail wagering networks, and an 
unwillingness to support less attractive retail outlets with limited turnover as 
required by state and territory governments. 
 
The inability to build scale in the medium-term as most licences in other 
states and territories will not expire for many years. 
 
Uncertainty regarding the ability to secure racing vision, which is an 
essential input for the operation of a retail wagering outlet. 
 
Uncertainty regarding the ability to obtain access to pooling arrangements 
(if required) on reasonable commercial terms. 
123. Market inquiries have indicated that the reliance of potential bidders on the 
merged entity for racing vision and, if required, access to pooling arrangements, 
would place the merged entity in a position to deter rival bidders for future 
wagering licences or foreclose new entrants. The ACCC considers that access 
to racing vision is an essential input for operating a retail wagering outlet, and 
pooling arrangements may be an essential input for a standalone totalisator, 
such that a prospective new entrant may be deterred from bidding for a wagering 
licence without access to these key inputs.  
124. Other market participants consider that the corporate bookmakers, overseas 
totalisator operators and potentially media companies are likely to have strong 
incentives to compete for future wagering licences, such that the proposed 
merger is unlikely to have a significant impact on the competitive dynamics for 
these licences. 
125. The ACCC is also considering the ability of state and territory governments to 
optimise the outcomes of competitive licensing and privatisation processes 
which may constrain the merged entity from securing licences on terms less 
favourable to the government, racing industry and wagering customers.  Some 
market participants have suggested that a state or territory government could 
take a strategic approach to maximise the prospect of extracting the highest 
bidder’s valuation for any licence, for example with respect to licence exclusivity, 
reserve price, duration of licence, terms and regulation of payouts and fees 
associated with the licence. These market participants also consider that 
governments are sophisticated licensors with strong bargaining power, and that 
there have been multiple occasions where governments have negotiated directly 
with the incumbent licence holder rather than operating a competitive tender 
process. 
126. The ACCC understands that the majority of totalisator and retail exclusivity rights 
are subject to long term licences with many years prior to expiry of their current 
terms, and therefore it may be difficult to predict the future competitive landscape 
to determine the likely impact of the proposed merger on competition for these 
licences. However, the ACCC considers that there is the potential for some 


Tabcorp Holdings and Tatts Group – proposed merger 
Page 21 of 38 
licences (including the potential privatisation of WA TAB and the expiry of the 
Victorian licence in 2024) to be contestable in the foreseeable future.  
127. The ACCC is aware of recent developments involving ClubsNSW signing a 
digital wagering advertising partnership with CrownBet, providing clubs with the 
option of engaging CrownBet to provide exclusive digital wagering services for 
club patrons.  
128. The ACCC is considering the extent to which digital wagering partnerships 
between corporate bookmakers and clubs and pubs, if successful (to the extent 
that they would be permitted under the relevant state/territory exclusive 
licences), may result in corporate bookmakers focussing on such opportunities to 
expand their exposure to wagering customers, rather than seeking to compete 
for retail wagering licences. The ACCC seeks feedback on the potential impact 
of this development on the incentives of corporate bookmakers to seek to obtain 
totalisator and retail exclusivity rights.  
129. The ACCC is also considering the effectiveness of such digital wagering 
expansion as a competitive constraint on the merger parties’ retail wagering 
operations, and whether such digital wagering opportunities are likely to be a 
significant aspect of overall competition in a national wagering market for the 
supply of wagering products comprising both retail and online channels.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the impact of the removal of 
Tatts as a future bidder for licences to supply totalisator and retail wagering services. 
In particular, market participants may wish to comment on the following: 
 Do you consider that corporate bookmakers or any other prospective new entrants 
are likely to have commercial incentives to compete in future wagering licence 
processes? 
 Do you consider the merger parties to be the only credible bidders for state-based 
wagering licences? If so, why? 
 Do you consider that any reduction in bidding competition resulting from the 
proposed merger for wagering licences affects competition in the supply of 
wagering products to consumers? If so, how? 
 Do you consider that possible digital arrangements between corporate bookmakers 
and clubs and venues may reduce the incentives of corporate bookmakers to 
participate in future bidding processes for retail wagering licences? If so, how? 
 To what extent do you consider digital wagering partnerships are likely to provide a 
significant expansion opportunity for online wagering competitors? 
 To what extent do you consider digital wagering partnership are likely to provide an 
effective competitive constraint to the merger parties?  


Tabcorp Holdings and Tatts Group – proposed merger 
Page 22 of 38 
Issue unlikely to raise concerns: reduced competition 
between totalisators for premium wagering customers  
130. The ACCC understands that corporate bookmakers tend to restrict wagering by 
high volume, premium wagering customers as part of their risk management 
policies. In contrast, totalisators do not restrict large bets as the nature of pari-
mutuel wagering means that such bets do not pose the same risk for them. 
Therefore, totalisator pools are the primary option for premium wagering 
customers.  
131. It is common for premium wagering customers to place bets with totalisators 
around the world. The ACCC considers that premium wagering customers are 
likely to have overseas totalisators as options available to them that are not 
accessible to the majority of recreational wagering customers. 
132. The ACCC understands that totalisators offer rebates or other incentives to 
premium wagering customers based on turnover and that rebates or other 
incentives are offered in order to achieve significant volumes from these high 
turnover customers. However, the ACCC understands that in offering rebates or 
other incentives to premium wagering customers, totalisators are conscious not 
to over-stimulate wagering by premium customers as this could impact payouts 
to other (non-premium) customers and, over time, affect the attractiveness of 
totalisator pools to all  customers. It appears that the merger parties may not 
directly compete with each other at present in setting rebate offers and 
structures, but would have the potential to do so. 
133. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed merger appears unlikely to  
result in a substantial lessening of competition for the supply of pari-mutuel 
wagering to premium wagering customers, including rebates or other incentives 
offered to attract and retain these customers. To the extent that the proposed 
merger will remove Tatts as a direct competitor for premium wagering 
customers, it appears that the merged entity will continue to be constrained by 
overseas totalisators.  
134. The ACCC is continuing to consider the extent to which the merger parties 
directly compete in the supply of rebates or other incentives to premium 
wagering customers. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the potential for the 
proposed merger to result in reduced competition for rebates or other incentives 
offered to premium wagering customers.  In particular market participants may wish to 
comment on the following: 
 Do totalisators alter rebate offers or other incentives to premium wagering 
customers in response to the rebate offers or other incentives of other totalisators? 
If so, how? 
 What factors determine totalisators’ decisions to increase or decrease rebate offers 
or other incentives to premium wagering customers? 
 Is there a natural constraint on a totalisator’s incentives to attract turnover from 
premium wagering customers to its pools? If so, does this limit direct competition 
between totalisators in the supply of rebates and incentives to premium wagering 
customers? 


Tabcorp Holdings and Tatts Group – proposed merger 
Page 23 of 38 
Media related issues   
135. Tabcorp/Sky is the dominant broadcaster of racing media content through its 
holding of exclusive and fully bundled rights for 94% of racing media content 
throughout Australia.   
136. The proposed merger will result in the combination of the dominant racing media 
broadcaster – which is currently vertically integrated in Tabcorp retail 
jurisdictions (Victoria, NSW and the ACT) – with the totalisator/retail wagering 
operator in Tatts retail jurisdictions (Queensland, South Australia, Tasmania and 
the Northern Territory). Following the merger, the merged entity would be 
vertically integrated as the dominant broadcaster of racing media content and 
the totalisator/retail wagering operator in nearly all states and territories. 
137. As raised earlier, the ACCC understands that there is a strong connection 
between wagering activity and access to racing media (particularly racing vision), 
with history demonstrating that wagering activity on a given race drops 
substantially when racing vision is restricted. 
138. The ACCC is continuing to investigate whether the combination of Sky with Tatts 
retail operations which would result from the proposed merger, would materially 
increase the degree of influence or any market power currently held by 
Tabcorp/Sky which it could leverage in its dealings with: 
 
Licensed venues that supply wagering services and race vision; 
 
Racing media rights holders (whether PRAs, or separate racing bodies or 
clubs); 
and flow-on impacts which may result in related wagering markets. 
Issue that may raise concerns: combining Sky Racing with 
Tatts retail wagering operations 
Ability to leverage enhanced market power in dealings with licensed venues 
139. Currently Sky Racing is vertically integrated with Tabcorp’s wagering operations.  
After the proposed merger, it will also be vertically integrated with Tatts’ 
wagering operations.  The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the merged entity 
may have enhanced market power in its dealings with licensed venues that 
supply wagering services/race vision in Tatts retail jurisdictions (Queensland, 
South Australia, Tasmania and Northern Territory).  
140. Market inquiries indicate that Tabcorp requires venues with Tabcorp wagering 
facilities to subscribe to Sky and display certain Sky channels in their venue. The 
ACCC understands that a ‘non-wagering’ venue (whether it is in a Tabcorp or 
Tatts jurisdiction) may acquire Sky on a standalone basis, but that different fee 
structures apply. The base subscription rate for Sky is substantially higher for 
‘non-wagering’ venues.   
141. The ACCC understands that in the states and territories in which it operates, 
Tatts requires wagering venues to make available ‘wall-to-wall’ racing vision to 
facilitate wagering activity. Given the close connection between racing vision and 


Tabcorp Holdings and Tatts Group – proposed merger 
Page 24 of 38 
wagering turnover, licensed venues also appear to have a strong incentive to 
display racing vision. Sky is currently the only service offering ‘wall-to-wall’ racing 
vision. Accordingly, in practical terms, it appears that venues offering wagering 
products to consumers need to subscribe to Sky, irrespective of whether they 
are in a Tabcorp or Tatts retail jurisdiction.   
142. Market inquiries have suggested that Tabcorp’s position as the supplier of Sky 
puts it in a strong position when dealing with venues in states and territories 
where it is also the supplier of retail wagering services to venues.  
143. In particular, some market participants have expressed concern that, as a result 
of the proposed merger, the merged entity will have a direct interest in retail 
wagering in  Queensland, Tasmania, South Australia and Northern Territory and 
accordingly will have the ability and incentive to choose not to provide access to 
Sky to venues, unless the venue is willing to acquire Tabcorp’s retail wagering 
services exclusively.  
144. In addition, the increased vertical integration resulting from the proposed merger 
may reduce the ability and/or incentive of venues in Queensland, Tasmania, 
South Australia and Northern Territory to make arrangements with other 
wagering operators, such as digital or advertising partnerships (to the extent that 
they would be permitted to do so by state or territory laws), in order to ensure 
their continued access to Sky. 
145. Further, some market participants have suggested that, while Tatts is reliant on 
access to Sky throughout the retail network, Sky also relies on Tatts to ensure 
that its channels are available in Tatts retail jurisdictions. They have therefore 
suggested that Tatts can and does currently use its position as a customer of 
Sky to insist on market-based pricing and fair terms of supply of Sky to its retail 
network of licensed venues.   
146. The ACCC is continuing to consider whether the proposed merger  would enable 
the merged entity to leverage market power held through its control of Sky to 
influence the behaviour of licensed venues in Queensland, Tasmania, South 
Australia and Northern Territory.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on whether the proposed 
merger will increase the merged entity’s incentive to use access to Sky influence the 
behaviour of licensed venues in Tatts retail jurisdictions (Queensland, Tasmania, 
South Australia and Northern Territory).  
In particular, market participants may wish to comment on the following: 
 the extent to which the need to access to Sky influences a licensed venue’s 
decisions about its retail wagering services arrangements with Tabcorp or others.  
 circumstances in which Sky may not be made available to licensed venues which 
do not operate Tabcorp retail wagering facilities. 
 whether licensed venues in Tatts retail jurisdictions are concerned about losing 
access to Sky should they cease providing retail wagering services or make 
arrangements with competing suppliers of online wagering products, and the basis 
for those concerns. 


Tabcorp Holdings and Tatts Group – proposed merger 
Page 25 of 38 
 the ability of licensed venues to separately acquire Tabcorp retail wagering services 
and Sky and any impact of the fee structure adopted for Sky on this.  
 whether any licensed venues have been threatened with termination of their Sky 
subscription and the circumstances in which this occurred. 
 the scope for Tatts to use its position as the retail wagering operator in several 
states and territories to support venues in their negotiations or dealings with Sky 
and any examples of it doing so. 
 the extent to which a licensed venue would have the incentive or ability to obtain 
services from a supplier of media rights other than, or in addition to, Sky. 
 
Ability to leverage enhanced market power in dealings with racing vision rights 
holders 
147. The proposed merger may also increase the merged entity’s market power in its 
dealings with holders of racing vision rights as a result of the combination of Sky 
and the retail wagering operations in Tatts retail jurisdictions (Queensland, 
Tasmania, South Australia and Northern Territory).  The ACCC is considering 
whether this may lessen competition by enabling the merged entity to limit the 
ability of rights holders to supply racing media rights to competing broadcasters, 
whether exclusively or non-exclusively.  
148. The ACCC has received mixed views with respect to this issue. 
149. Market inquiries have highlighted the importance of racing content featuring on 
Sky, particularly Sky Racing 1 as the primary wagering channel. Market inquiries 
have indicated that, as the dominant broadcaster of racing media content, 
Tabcorp/Sky is able to influence the level of wagering turnover generated by a 
race. For example, by determining whether races will be broadcast on the 
primary wagering channel (Sky Racing 1) or demoting races to the secondary 
wagering channel (Sky Racing 2) or otherwise engaging in “blackout” conduct 
where the vision for a race is not broadcast on Sky. 
150. Some market participants have indicated that the merged entity will have 
materially enhanced leverage in its dealings with rights holders as: 
 
the merged entity, by having the primary wagering relationship with PRAs, 
will be in a dominant position in its dealings with PRAs as rights holders.  
 
PRAs in a formal or economic joint venture with the merged entity will be 
financially incentivised to maximise wagering with the merged entity and 
minimise revenue leakage to corporate bookmakers. This in turn may result 
in foreclosure of competing broadcasters of racing media rights. 
 
the merged entity will gain complete control over whose broadcast signals 
are shown in the retail wagering outlets in those jurisdictions. It has been 
suggested that this would provide the merged entity with the option of 
limiting the ability of competing broadcasters to negotiate the supply of 
racing vision in Tatts wagering retail outlets. This in turn may diminish their 
ability to acquire media rights from racing authorities in Tatts jurisdictions 
due to the uncertain prospect of their ability to exploit these rights.  


Tabcorp Holdings and Tatts Group – proposed merger 
Page 26 of 38 
151. The ACCC is considering whether any ability to influence the wagering turnover 
generated by a race through control of Sky and leverage this in dealings with 
rights holders is enhanced by the proposed merger through vertical integration of 
the dominant broadcaster of racing media content and totalisator/retail wagering 
operator in Tatts retail jurisdictions. 
152. Despite the above concerns, market feedback from a number of rights holders 
has indicated that the proposed merger will not have any material impact on the 
negotiations of their racing media rights. 
153. The ACCC understands that, in existing Tabcorp jurisdictions, racing bodies 
have, in recent years, been able to either self-supply and distribute/broadcast 
racing media rights (such as Racing Victoria through its Racing.com joint 
venture) or unbundle digital racing media rights to corporate bookmakers (such 
as Racing NSW’s arrangement with William Hill). The ACCC does acknowledge 
that Victoria and NSW are the largest wagering states, with some market 
participants suggesting that their races are considered premium.  This may 
provide the PRAs in these states with increased bargaining power as opposed to 
smaller codes and jurisdictions. The ACCC is investigating whether racing 
bodies in former Tatts jurisdictions would be able do the same following the 
proposed merger.  
154. Market inquiries indicate that the focus of emerging competing suppliers has 
been on digital and free to air channels rather than on the supply subscription 
television in retail wagering venues.    
155. Some market participants have expressed concerns that Sky’s incentives to 
insist on exclusive rights deals may be enhanced with the proposed merger, 
further limiting access to these alternative distribution channels and foreclosing 
competing broadcasters. However, the ACCC notes that competing suppliers of 
racing media content have emerged from jurisdictions where relevant racing 
bodies are currently in formal or economic joint ventures with Tabcorp/Sky 
Racing. Accordingly, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that this suggests the 
proposed merger may not affect the incentives of racing bodies in former Tatts 
jurisdictions to provide rights exclusively to Sky.  
156. The ACCC is continuing to consider whether the increased vertical integration 
(relative to the existing market structure) would enable the merged entity to: 
 
Foreclose competing suppliers of racing media content. 
 
Prevent rights holders, particularly those of a smaller scale, from 
negotiating non-exclusive rights agreements with Sky, thereby precluding 
competitors from obtaining media rights. 
 
Deter or prevent corporate bookmakers from effectively competing with the 
merged entity in the supply of wagering services through restricted access 
to racing media content or exclusive holding of digital rights. 
157. In addition, the ACCC is continuing to investigate whether the proposed merger 
and increased economic dependence between the merged entity and racing 
bodies in Tatts retail wagering jurisdictions will have any impact on the likelihood 
of a racing body providing media rights to an entity other than, or in addition to, 
Sky.  


Tabcorp Holdings and Tatts Group – proposed merger 
Page 27 of 38 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the extent to which rights 
holders and PRAs hold or exercise countervailing / bargaining power in their 
negotiations with Tabcorp/Sky for media rights and how this may be impacted by the 
proposed merger. In particular, market participants may wish to comment on: 
 why any Tabcorp/Sky influence does not currently exist in the current market 
environment for racing bodies in Tatts jurisdictions and their decisions relating to 
media rights. 
 the ability of rights holders to insist on non-exclusive arrangements with Sky in the 
current market environment and how this may change should the proposed merger 
proceed. 
 the extent to which PRAs are able to negotiate non-exclusive rights agreements 
with Sky, noting that Racing Victoria and Racing NSW (in Tabcorp states) currently 
have such agreements. 
 the strength of Tabcorp/Sky’s incentive to reach agreement with rights holders or 
other entities such as Racing.com to ensure racing vision is available to promote 
wagering on races and how this may change should the merger proceed. 
 whether the ability of rights holders to reach non-exclusive rights agreements with 
Sky will change should the proposed merger proceed where the rights holders are 
in a formal or economic joint venture with the merged entity (i.e. following the 
merger, whether racing bodies will be financially incentivised to maximise wagering 
with, and provide their vision exclusively to, the merged entity). 
Removal of Tatts as a competitor 
158. Some market participants consider Tatts to be a legitimate bidder for 
broadcast/digital rights, particularly from rights holders with which it is in a joint 
venture relationship. Concerns have been raised that the proposed merger may 
remove a legitimate prospective competitor for racing media rights.  
159. The ACCC understands that to date Tatts has not sought to obtain racing media 
rights directly, instead purchasing Sky subscriptions for its retail outlets and 
digital offerings. The ACCC is investigating the extent to which Tatts may be a 
legitimate potential competitor for racing media rights, either as an aggregator or 
broadcaster, and whether its removal could then significantly lessen competition.  
Barriers to entry and expansion 
160. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that competing broadcasters of racing media 
rights face a number of significant barriers to entry and expansion. 
161. Existing barriers appear significant as: 
 
Sky has entered into a large number of fully bundled, exclusive rights 
agreements with various racing clubs, which have the effect of inhibiting the 
ability of parties other than Sky to acquire those rights; 


Tabcorp Holdings and Tatts Group – proposed merger 
Page 28 of 38 
 
the staggered expiry of these exclusive rights agreements hinders a 
potential competitor from being able to acquire sufficient rights which could 
be aggregated to establish a viable racing channel in competition with Sky; 
 
competing broadcasters face limited access to the retail distribution 
channel: 
– Tabcorp controls 60 per cent of the Australian retail wagering network;  
– venues obtaining Tabcorp retail wagering services are compelled to 
acquire Sky; and 
– the racing industry appears to have a strong desire to avoid another ‘split 
vision’ situation, which may deter racing bodies from providing a 
competing broadcaster with vision rights. 
 
competing broadcasters face limited access to digital/new media 
distribution channels due to: 
– Sky’s practice of bundling digital/new media and traditional media rights 
on an exclusive basis; 
– Sky’s refusal to sublicense content to corporate bookmakers.   
162. A barrier to expansion faced by competing broadcasters of racing media rights is 
the need to ensure rights holders that their racing content will continue to be 
distributed into the retail channel on Sky. While competing broadcasters may be 
amenable to sub-licensing the acquired rights to Sky, a risk remains that Sky will 
refuse to distribute the content. This provides a disincentive for rights holders in 
licensing their traditional media rights to anyone other than Sky, even if other 
acquirers are willing to offer more attractive terms and exploitation of their rights. 
Limited history of substantial or sustained entry 
163. There has been a limited history of sustained entry to the market.  A number of 
market participants referred to ThoroughVision’s (TVN) exit as well as 
Racing.com’s limited racing media rights.  
164. The ACCC also notes the challenges faced by the corporate bookmakers in 
obtaining access to digital media rights. Sky’s market dominance and ability to 
negotiate fully bundled and exclusive racing media rights deals means that 
corporate bookmakers have struggled to obtain access to digital content in a 
number of jurisdictions throughout Australia. 
Likelihood of new entry 
165. The ACCC’s market inquiries suggest that new entry of sufficient scale and in a 
timely manner for the broadcast of racing vision into the retail distribution 
channel appears unlikely due to the high barriers to entry identified above.  
166. Without the ability to guarantee that a racing club’s vision will be shown 
throughout the retail network, rights holders have little incentive to license 
traditional media rights to a competing broadcaster to Sky, given the direct 
correlation between access to vision, wagering revenue and industry funding.  


Tabcorp Holdings and Tatts Group – proposed merger 
Page 29 of 38 
167. Further, market inquiries suggest that the negative experiences of split vision 
have left the racing industry reluctant to return to an environment with multiple 
broadcasters in the retail distribution channel.   
168. The challenges faced by TVN in securing inputs and supply channels for its 
broadcasting service and its eventual exit suggest that a business model 
premised on broadcasting into retail venues may not be sustainable.  These 
points appear to be supported by Racing.com’s strategy of sub-licensing content 
to Sky for retail distribution, rather than seeking to replicate broadcast of racing 
vision into retail networks. 
169. Conversely, new entry by competitors seeking to obtain digital/free-to-air rights 
may be more likely and access to this distribution market may be an alternative 
to the dominance of Sky in the retail market.  The ACCC notes corporate 
bookmakers’ success in obtaining digital rights to Victorian and NSW racing 
vision, while recognising that the barriers to entry identified above may still have 
a significant impact on their success.   
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the likelihood of new entry to 
the market for racing media rights.  In particular market participants may wish to 
comment on the following: 
 how barriers to entry into the market for acquiring racing media rights will change or 
be exacerbated if the proposed merger proceeds. 
 the constraints faced by other racing bodies in commencing a similar venture to that 
of Racing.com to exploit their own racing media rights. 
 
Gaming related issues 
Issue of concern: reduced competition in electronic 
gaming machine monitoring services and 
repair/maintenance services in Queensland 
170. Tabcorp and Tatts provide EGM monitoring and repair/maintenance services in 
Queensland through their gaming services divisions, Odyssey and Maxgaming, 
respectively. Tabcorp and Tatts also supply gaming and promotional 
management systems and related services in Queensland. 
171. Gaming venues with EGMs are required to obtain licensed monitoring operator 
services for compliance and taxation purposes. The licenced monitoring operator 
is required to provide EGM repair and maintenance services. The ACCC 
understands gaming venues can choose their licenced monitoring operator.  
172. The ACCC’s preliminary view is the proposed merger is likely to substantially 
lessen competition in the Queensland market for the supply of licensed 
monitoring operator services and EGM repair and maintenance services by 
removing Maxgaming and Odyssey as each other’s key competitor.   


Tabcorp Holdings and Tatts Group – proposed merger 
Page 30 of 38 
173. This is in circumstances where: 
 
Maxgaming and Odyssey are the only two active suppliers of licensed 
monitoring services in Queensland and compete closely for contracts with 
gaming venues.  
 
There are significant barriers to expansion such that newly licensed 
monitoring operators are unlikely to constrain the merged entity within the 
foreseeable future. 
174. The ACCC’s preliminary view is the merged entity may be able to exercise 
market power by unilaterally increasing prices and/or decreasing service levels.  
Closeness of competition between Maxgaming and Odyssey 
175. The ACCC’s preliminary view is Maxgaming and Odyssey are currently each 
other’s closest competitor for the supply of licensed monitoring operator services 
in Queensland, and absent the proposed merger, this appears likely to be the 
case for the foreseeable future. 
176. Market inquiries indicate:  
 
Maxgaming and Odyssey may participate in the same tender processes 
and/or negotiate contracts with the same venues. 
 
Maxgaming and Odyssey may supply their services at a similar price but 
there can be differences in service quality.  
 
Gaming venues have been able to use the threat to switch to either 
Maxgaming or Odyssey to negotiate/acquire more favourable terms and 
conditions in their contracts. Market participants consider gaming venues 
could not credibly threaten to switch suppliers post-merger and therefore 
venues will have no countervailing power to respond to potential price 
increases and/or reductions in service quality. 
Barriers to entry and expansion – licenced monitoring operator services 
177. The ACCC’s market inquiries suggest the impending entry of Utopia Gaming 
Systems (Banktech) and Progressive Venue Solutions (PVS), each having 
recently acquired monitoring licences in Queensland, is unlikely to constrain the 
merged entity in the foreseeable future.  
178. The ACCC considers that it is important for a licensed monitoring operator to 
have economies of scale to be competitive. Market participants identified there 
were initially eight licensed monitoring operators when the Queensland 
Government first privatised the supply of monitoring services (in the late 1990s), 
but there has since been considerable market consolidation. Market participants 
have suggested the reasons for this consolidation include some licensed 
monitoring operators had insufficient scale and the Queensland Government 
removed a cap on market share. 


Tabcorp Holdings and Tatts Group – proposed merger 
Page 31 of 38 
179. Market inquiries have identified the following potential barriers to expansion in 
the supply of licensed monitoring operator services.  
 
Contract length: contracts for the provision of licensed monitoring operator 
services in Queensland typically range between three to five years.  
 
Switching costs: The ACCC understands there might be substantial costs 
associated with switching licensed monitoring operators due to the 
software/hardware/equipment that must be replaced in each EGM and at 
the venue. 
180. The ability for the Queensland Government to issue multiple monitoring licences 
raises the question of whether there could be further entry into this market. The 
ACCC’s market inquiries to date suggest that while future entry is possible, it 
appears that future entry may not be timely and for existing licence holders, it is 
uncertain as to the degree of competitive constraint they will provide in the 
foreseeable future, having regard to barriers to entry and expansion.  
 
Reputation: The ACCC understands a licensed monitoring operator’s 
reputation, and the extent the monitoring system has successfully operated 
in Australian markets, would be an important consideration for a venue in 
selecting a licensed monitoring operator.  While a business supplying a 
similar service in another Australian state or territory may have an 
advantage in entering the Queensland market by leveraging off their 
existing reputation, international providers of monitoring services would be 
unlikely to have that advantage (particularly given the unique features of 
Australian markets).  
 
Cost and time: The ACCC understands that a significant amount of time 
and cost is required to acquire a monitoring licence. This includes, among 
other things, fees for the licence5 and developing a monitoring system that 
satisfies regulatory approvals.  
181. The ACCC considers new entrants are unlikely to be in a position to supply 
licensed monitoring operator services in the foreseeable future in order to 
constrain the merged entity.  
Proposed divestment remedy 
Tabcorp has proposed to divest Odyssey to address any competition concerns that 
could arise as a result of the proposed merger within relevant Queensland markets. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the extent to which 
Tabcorp’s proposed divestment of Odyssey could address potential competition 
concerns arising through the proposed merger.  
Please refer to the ACCC’s market consultation letter on the proposed divestment 
remedy of Odyssey, which sets out the specific details of the proposed divestment and 
questions for comments, available on the Mergers Register on the ACCC's website at 
www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister (see link: Tabcorp Holdings and Tatts Group – 
proposed merger). 
                                                 
 
5  As at 1 July 2016, the fees associated with the grant and renewal of a licenced monitoring 
operator licence are equivalent - $16,540 for an application, $396,800 for the 10 year 
licence. 


Tabcorp Holdings and Tatts Group – proposed merger 
Page 32 of 38 
Issue that may raise concerns: potential foreclosure of 
competing suppliers of electronic gaming machine 
systems and services in NSW and Queensland  
182. In NSW and Queensland, the proposed merger will result in increased vertical 
integration between the merger parties’ businesses supplying the following 
services to gaming venues:  
 
EGM monitoring services; and  
 
gaming and promotional management systems and related services.  
183. The ACCC’s preliminary view is the proposed merger may substantially lessen 
competition by foreclosing, or increasing the barriers to expansion for, competing 
suppliers of electronic gaming machine systems and services.  
184. Market participants have also highlighted that in addition to the vertical 
integration that arises in the context of the merger parties’ EGM operations, the 
merged entity will also have the retail licence for wagering and lotteries which 
has heightened the level of concern.  
185. To the extent competition concerns relate to relevant Queensland markets, the 
ACCC is investigating whether these can be addressed through Tabcorp’s 
proposed divestment of Odyssey Gaming.  
186. The ACCC is continuing to investigate whether the proposed merger increases 
the ability or incentive for the licensed monitoring operator to favour its own 
related businesses that provide gaming and promotional management systems 
and related services (or alternatively, favour venues that acquire the merged 
entity’s gaming and promotional management systems and related services). 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the merged entity’s ability or 
incentive, in providing licensed monitoring operator services, to favour its own gaming 
and promotional management systems and related services businesses (or venues 
that acquire the merged entity’s gaming and promotional management systems and 
related services). In particular, market participants may wish to comment on: 
 the circumstances in which the merged entity would have an ability or incentive to 
provide licensed monitoring operator services on more favourable terms and 
conditions.  
 any regulatory, legislative, contractual restrictions, which would constrain the ability 
for the merged entity to provide licensed monitoring operator services on more 
favourable terms and conditions. 
 any competitive constraints, which would constrain the ability for the merged entity 
to provide licensed monitoring operator services on more favourable terms and 
conditions.  
 whether the proposed divestment of Odyssey Gaming addresses the issue in 
Queensland 


Tabcorp Holdings and Tatts Group – proposed merger 
Page 33 of 38 
Access to commercially sensitive data and information 
187. Market inquiries have identified concerns about the volume and types of data the 
merged entity will be able to access, and how the use of data could harm 
competition. Two examples are outlined below:  
 
The merged entity could use commercially sensitive data to gain a 
competitive advantage over other suppliers of gaming and promotional 
management systems and services.  
 
The merged entity could use data to move customers onto another 
gambling product, which provides the merged entity with the highest margin 
e.g. shifting EGM customers to wagering and/or lotteries products.  
Restrictions on ability to use commercially sensitive data or information 
188. Tabcorp’s recent acquisition of Intecq involved the combination of two providers 
of gaming and promotional management systems and related services in NSW 
and Victoria. During the ACCC’s review of that transaction, the ACCC explored 
concerns about whether, after the acquisition, Tabcorp would be able to misuse 
venues’ commercially sensitive data and information collected through the 
provision of gaming and promotional management systems and related services 
in a way that would damage competition. The ACCC concluded this was unlikely 
due to regulatory and contractual restrictions as well as the existence of 
competitive constraints.  
Ongoing discussions between Tabcorp and Liquor and Gaming NSW and 
proposed commitments to ClubsNSW 
Tabcorp has advised the ACCC that it has had discussions with Liquor and Gaming 
NSW in regards to the application of governance principles to Tabcorp, if it becomes 
the owner of the NSW monitoring operator. 
Tabcorp has also advised the ACCC it is currently in negotiations with ClubsNSW to 
establish a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between Tabcorp and ClubsNSW.  
The ACCC understands the MoU may cover certain principles of independence and 
implement certain governance and data protection regimes in connection with 
Maxgaming’s NSW monitoring business which Tabcorp considers complement the 
corporate governance principles which are being discussed with Liquor and Gaming 
NSW. 
The ACCC is continuing to investigate the ability and incentives for the merged entity 
to use data it will collect as a vertically integrated monitoring operator in a way that 
could substantially lessen competition in related markets.  
The ACCC has recently been advised of the discussions between Liquor and Gaming 
NSW and the potential MoU with ClubsNSW. The ACCC will continue to consider 
whether regulatory restrictions and potential commitments by Tabcorp to Liquor or 
Gaming NSW, or to ClubsNSW, are likely to effectively remedy potential competition 
concerns. 
 


Tabcorp Holdings and Tatts Group – proposed merger 
Page 34 of 38 
The ACCC invites further comments from market participants as to how the merged 
entity could use commercially sensitive information or data in ways that could harm 
competition including by providing itself with a competitive advantage. In particular, 
market participants may wish to comment on the following: 
 specific examples of the data the merged entity will be able to access, the extent to 
which other providers of gaming and promotional management systems have 
access to this data and the way in which that data could be used such that it would 
harm competition. 
 reasons as to why the increased vertical integration may increase the incentives for 
the merged entity to misuse commercially sensitive information. 
 any restrictions, including any penalties – whether in legislation, licences, contracts 
or other – that would constrain the merged entity’s ability to misuse commercially 
sensitive data or information. 
 any views as to whether those restrictions or penalties are sufficient. 
Functionality with third-party gaming and promotional management systems 
and related services 
189. Market participants have raised concerns the merged entity would have the 
ability or incentive to reduce the functionality of third-party gaming and 
promotional management systems and related services. 
190. The ACCC understands in Queensland one example of the way in which the 
merger parties currently provide functionality to third-party gaming and 
promotional management systems is to provide a software interface on the 
monitoring system for third-party gaming and promotional management systems. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is the merged entity could restrict functionality of 
third-party gaming and promotional management systems by: 
 
refusing to provide a software interface through which third-party systems 
can operate; 
 
building an interface that determines the scope of services a third-party 
could provide; and/or 
 
levying (unreasonably high) fees in return for providing the relevant 
software interface. 
191. The ACCC understands currently in NSW interfacing between the monitoring 
system and a gaming and promotional management system is not possible. 
However, the monitoring system is currently being upgraded, which may allow 
for this to occur. The ACCC understands upgrades are expected to be 
completed by the end of 2017. 


Tabcorp Holdings and Tatts Group – proposed merger 
Page 35 of 38 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the ability or incentive for the 
merged entity, as a licensed monitoring operator in NSW and Queensland, to restrict 
functionality of third-party gaming and promotional management systems. In particular, 
market participants may wish to comment on the following: 
 circumstances in which a third-party would seek an interface with the monitoring 
system or another gaming and promotional management system. 
 in addition to offering a software interface, other examples of the way in which the 
merged entity’s monitoring system or gaming and promotional management system 
would be needed to provide functionality for a third-party gaming and promotional 
management system. 
 the existence of any competitive constraints that would limit the incentive for the 
merged entity to refuse to provide a third-party with the requested functionality. 
 the existence of regulatory, legislative or contractual requirements (including any  
penalty for non-compliance) for the monitoring operator to provide an interface for a 
third-party gaming and promotional management system. 
Issue that may raise concern: reduced competition in the 
supply of electronic gaming machine repair and 
maintenance services in Victoria 
192. The proposed merger will combine Tabcorp and Tatts’ ‘field services’ businesses 
which provide EGM repair and maintenance services to venues with EGMs in 
Victoria. 
193. The proposed merger may raise competition concerns by removing a substantial 
competitor in the supply of EGM repair and maintenance services in Victoria. 
194. The ACCC understands Tabcorp Field Services (TFS) through TGS and 
Bytecraft have different business models such that they may not compete closely 
in the supply of EGM repair and maintenance services in Victoria. The ACCC 
understands TFS does not supply EGM repair and maintenance services on a 
standalone basis. The services are provided as part of TGS’ baseline (‘core’) 
bundle for TGS’ full service solution offering. By comparison, Bytecraft supplies 
its EGM repair and maintenance services as a standalone service.  
195. The ACCC is continuing to investigate whether the proposed merger removes a 
competitive constraint such that the merged entity would have an increased 
ability to increase prices or decrease service levels. The ACCC is also 
considering whether the merged entity will have substantial economies of scale 
such that it could increase the barriers to expansion for other providers of these 
services. 


Tabcorp Holdings and Tatts Group – proposed merger 
Page 36 of 38 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the closeness of competition 
between Tabcorp and Tatts in relation to the supply of EGM repair and maintenance 
services in Victoria. In particular, market participants may wish to comment on the 
following: 
 the extent to which the proposed merger removes a key source of competition to 
either TFS or Bytecraft in the supply of EGM repair and maintenance services in 
Victoria. 
 the extent to which a venue compares TFS’ EGM repair and maintenance services 
to other providers of these services, when considering TGS’ full service solution. 
Barriers to entry and expansion 
196. Market participants have generally identified two other providers of EGM repair 
and maintenance services in Victoria – Aristocrat and Amtek.  
197. The ACCC is continuing to investigate the presence of alternative providers of 
EGM repair and maintenance services, and the extent to which they could 
effectively constrain the merged entity.  
198. Market inquiries to date indicate contracts for EGM repair and maintenance 
services are typically one to three years in length. However, market inquiries 
indicate there are longer contract lengths when the EGM repair and maintenance 
service is provided as part of an integrated solution, such as TGS’ full service 
solution. 
199. The ACCC understands switching costs are relatively lower for EGM repair and 
maintenance services as compared with other gaming services in which the 
merger parties overlap because the change in providers does not require, for 
example, re-training for venue staff or a change to the hardware or software 
installed in the EGM.  
200. The ACCC understands the main barrier to entry in the Victorian market for EGM 
repair and maintenance services is the requirement to be listed on the Roll of 
Approved Manufacturers, Suppliers and Testers before it can supply EGM repair 
and maintenance services to Victorian venues. 
The ACCC invites comments on the competitive constraint imposed on the merged 
entity by existing or potential providers of EGM repair and maintenance services in 
Victoria. In particular, market participants may wish to comment on the following: 
 the presence of other providers of EGM repair and maintenance services in 
Victoria. 
 providers of EGM repair and maintenance services that could credibly enter the 
Victorian market, including existing providers in other states. 
 the extent to which alternative providers of EGM repair and maintenance services 
or new entrants could competitively constrain the prices of the merged entity. 
 examples where alternative providers of EGM repair and maintenance services 
have competed with TFS and/or Bytecraft for EGM repair and maintenance 


Tabcorp Holdings and Tatts Group – proposed merger 
Page 37 of 38 
contracts, such as participation in the same tenders or the use of another provider’s 
offer to negotiate better terms with TFS and/or Bytecraft. 
 the barriers to entry and expansion for new or competing suppliers of EGM repair 
and maintenance services in Victoria. 
Licences: monitoring, lotteries, Keno 
Issue unlikely to raise concerns: bidding for exclusive 
licences for electronic gaming machine monitoring, Keno 
and lotteries 
201. The proposed merger appears unlikely to substantially lessen competition in 
bidding for exclusive licences for electronic gaming machine monitoring services, 
Keno and lotteries, respectively. 
202. The ACCC understands, particularly in relation to licences for the provision of 
electronic gaming machine monitoring services and lotteries, the proposed 
merger does not remove a unique bidder, and that there are other potential 
bidders who would provide an equivalent competitive constraint. 
203. Market feedback also suggests Tatts has a significant incumbency advantage in 
bidding for state and territory lotteries licences. 
204. The ACCC notes many state and territory lotteries and Keno licences will not 
expire for a considerable number of years making it difficult to assess 
competition concerns. 
Issue unlikely to raise concern: reduced in competition for 
the supply of Keno products 
205. The proposed merger is unlikely to substantially lessen competition by removing 
a key competitor in relation to the supply of Keno products in South Australia and 
Victoria.  
206. Tabcorp and Tatts currently overlap in the supply of Keno products in South 
Australia. Tatts supplies Keno products through a variety of channels including to 
gaming venues, newsagencies and TAB outlets. Tabcorp only supplies Keno 
online. The ACCC’s preliminary view is the proposed merger does not remove 
Tabcorp as a close competitor to Tatts in the supply of Keno products in South 
Australia. 
207. Tatts does not currently supply a Keno product in Victoria but it has the option to 
do so under its Victorian lotteries licence. Tabcorp holds the Victorian Keno 
licence, supplying a Keno product, which is drawn every three minutes to gaming 
venues and TAB outlets. The ACCC’s preliminary view is the proposed merger is 
unlikely to remove a competitive constraint on Tabcorp because Tatts does not 
currently supply Keno in Victoria. Further, even if Tatts was to supply Keno, 
market inquiries suggest the product Tatts could offer under its lotteries licence 
is unlikely to be a close substitute for Tabcorp’s rapid draw Keno product, which 
is currently supplied to gaming venues and TAB outlets.  


Tabcorp Holdings and Tatts Group – proposed merger 
Page 38 of 38 
ACCC's future steps 
208. As noted above, the ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on 
each of the issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue 
that may be relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. Submissions are 
to be received by the ACCC no later than 24 March 2017 and should be emailed 
to mergers@accc.gov.au. 
209. The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
210. The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 4 May 2017. However 
the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Informal Merger Review 
Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose of 
explaining the ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's public 
announcement to explain its final view. 
