 
 
 
 
 
 
15 February 2007 
 
Statement of Issues — George Weston Foods Limited’s 
proposed acquisition of Rabkal Pty Ltd t/as Good Stuff 
Bakery 
 
1. 
Outlined below is the Statement of Issues released by the Australian 
Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) in relation to the proposed 
acquisition of Rabkal Pty Ltd trading as the Good Stuff Bakery (GSB) by 
George Weston Foods Limited (GWF) (proposed acquisition).  
2. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well 
as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
3. 
In line with the ACCC’s Merger Review Process Guidelines (available on the 
ACCC’s website at www.accc.gov.au) the ACCC has established a secondary 
timeline for further consideration of the issues.  The ACCC anticipates 
completing further market inquiries by 1 March 2007 and anticipates making a 
final decision on 15 March 2007.  However, the anticipated timeline can change 
in line with the Merger Review Process Guidelines.  To keep abreast of possible 
changes in relation to timing and to find relevant documents, market 
participants should visit the Mergers Register on the ACCC's website at 
www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
4. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties 
(including customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to 
ascertain and consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC.  It is also 
intended to provide the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis 
for making further submissions should they consider it necessary. 
Background 
 
5. 
On 20 November 2006, GWF publicly announced the proposed acquisition. 


The parties 
George Weston Foods Limited 
6. 
GWF manufactures and distributes nationally a range of consumer food 
products and ingredients. 
7. 
GWF’s baking business manufactures and distributes various bread products 
and other baked goods (including ‘Tip Top’ branded bread products, bread rolls 
and buns, crumpets, crispbreads, muffins, bagels, packaged cakes and specialty 
breads, breadcrumbs and stuffing mixes), ‘Tip Top’ branded packaged flour and 
‘Kitchen Collection’ bread mixes.  These products are supplied to retailers and 
the food service industry.  GWF also manufactures a quantity of generic-label 
bread products for supermarkets. 
8. 
GWF also manufactures packaged cakes in Brisbane under the ‘Top Taste’ 
brand.  These cakes are distributed Australia-wide. 
9. 
Another of GWF’s businesses, Weston Cereal Industries, trading as Weston 
Milling, supplies a range of baking ingredients such as flour, bread and cake 
pre-mixes, filling mixes and non-flour bakery ingredients to the food services, 
industrial and commercial sectors. 
Rabkal Pty Ltd trading as the Good Stuff Bakery 
10. 
GSB is a family-owned business that was established on the Gold Coast in 
1988.  GSB manufactures and distributes assorted bread products, including 
sandwich and Turkish breads, rye loaves, rolls and lamingtons. 
11. 
GSB markets its bread products under its own ‘Good Stuff’ brand.  However, it 
also manufactures a quantity of generic-label bread products for supermarkets. 
Other industry participants 
12. 
Goodman Fielder manufactures and distributes nationally a range of consumer 
food products and ingredients.  Its bread division, Baking Australia, 
manufactures and distributes a wide range of bread products under brand names 
such as ‘Buttercup’, ‘Helga’s’, ‘Sunicrust’ and ‘Wonder White’. 
13. 
In southern Queensland Goodman Fielder manufactures bread products at a 
facility in the Brisbane area (Carina) and a facility at Burleigh Heads (on the 
Gold Coast).  It also has bakeries at Rockhampton, Townsville and Cairns. 
14. 
Gold Coast Bakeries is a plant baking business at Ernest Junction on the Gold 
Coast.  It manufactures and distributes bread under brands such as ‘Gold Coast’ 
and ‘Golden Hearth’.  These brands are distributed widely in southern 
Queensland and northern New South Wales (from Ballina to Bribie Island and 
as far inland as Moree). 
15. 
Homestyle Bakeries is based in Toowoomba.  It is predominantly a cake 
manufacturer which also manufactures and distributes bread.  Homestyle 
 
2


Bakeries services an area reaching Maryborough in the north, Tenterfield in the 
south and as far inland as Quilpie. 
Market inquiries 
16. 
On 21 November 2006 the ACCC commenced market inquiries regarding the 
proposed acquisition.  A range of interested parties provided responses, 
including other manufacturers of bread products as well as retailers of bread 
products.  
Statement of issues 
17. 
For the purposes of this Statement of Issues, the issues in this matter are divided 
into two categories, “issues that may raise concerns” and “issues unlikely to 
pose concerns”.  The ACCC is seeking comments from market participants in 
relation to all issues. 
Issues that may raise concerns 
Likely effects on competition in the wholesale supply of bread 
 
18. 
The merger parties and their competitors manufacture bread for wholesale 
distribution in, broadly, southern Queensland and northern New South Wales. 
19. 
Market inquiries to date suggest that the merged firm would account for 
approximately half of the wholesale supply of bread products to bread retailers 
(including supermarkets, the route trade and the food service industry) in 
southern Queensland (as far north as Rockhampton) and northern New South 
Wales (as far south as Ballina). 
20. 
Market inquiries suggest that the target firm, GSB, may be a vigorous and 
effective competitor in the market, and in particular: 
• that GSB focuses on the discount segment of the bread market and often 
wholesales bread at net wholesale prices below $1 per loaf, depending on 
customer volumes; and 
• that, post-acquisition, “independent” supermarkets, the route trade and the 
food service industry may not be able to source bread products at similar 
prices to those offered by GSB. 
21. 
Accordingly, there are two aspects of the proposed acquisition that may lead to 
competition concerns.  These are: 
• that the proposed acquisition of GSB may remove a vigorous and effective 
competitor to the other bread manufacturers supplying bread products to 
retailers in southern Queensland and northern New South Wales; and 
• that the ability and incentive for tacit price coordination between the 
remaining plant bakers may be increased by the removal of GSB. 
 
3


Invitation for further information - wholesale supply of bread 
22. 
In light of the information set out above, there may be a substantial lessening of 
competition for the wholesale supply of bread products to bread retailers in 
southern Queensland (as far north as Rockhampton) and northern New South 
Wales (as far south as Ballina).  Accordingly, the ACCC invites further 
information from interested parties regarding: 
(a) 
Whether the proposed acquisition would result in the removal of a 
vigorous and effective competitor offering wholesale supply of bread 
products to bread retailers in southern Queensland and northern New 
South Wales.  In this regard, it is relevant: 
• whether, and if so why, GSB offers wholesale bread (particularly 
generic-label or “price fighting” bread) at prices significantly 
below that of other wholesale suppliers of bread in southern 
Queensland and northern New South Wales (particularly with 
regard to supply to “independent” supermarkets, the route trade and 
the food service industry). 
(b) 
The level of importance of the wholesale prices offered by GSB to 
wholesale prices set more broadly by GSB’s competitors.  In this 
regard, relevant factors include: 
• the extent to which GSB’s pricing of bread products affects pricing 
decisions of GSB’s competitors for similar bread products; and 
• the extent to which GSB’s competitors have lost trade to GSB due 
to GSB’s pricing of bread products (giving examples of instances 
where competitors have lost trade to GSB). 
(c) 
The ability of customers of GSB (in particular, “independent” 
supermarkets, the route trade and the food services industry) to avoid 
an attempted price rise by the merged firm by sourcing supply from the 
merged firm’s competitors.  In this regard, relevant factors include: 
• wholesale pricing by GSB’s competitors (namely Homestyle 
Bakeries, Gold Coast Bakeries and Goodman Fielder) in relation to 
a range of customers (eg. large supermarkets, “independent” 
supermarkets, the route trade and the food services industry); and 
• the level of capacity (including estimates of excess capacity) 
available to each plant baker servicing retailers in south east 
Queensland and northern New South Wales. 
(d) 
Whether, and if so, how, hot bread shops, franchise bakeries and 
supermarket in-store bakeries provide a constraint upon the prices 
charged by wholesale bread manufacturers.  Relevant factors include: 
 
4


• the extent of competition for retail bread sales between bread 
supplied by plant bakers and bread supplied by hot bread shops, 
franchise bakeries and supermarket in-store bakeries; and 
• the extent to which wholesale bakeries come under price pressure 
from retailers seeking to compete against bread prices offered by 
hot bread shops, franchise bakeries and supermarket in-store 
bakeries. 
(e) 
The likely effect of the proposed acquisition on price and non-price 
competition.  This includes whether the proposed acquisition may 
result in reduced price competition between the remaining plant 
bakeries.  Factors which the ACCC will have regard to, in this respect, 
include: 
• the level of transparency of wholesale bread prices between plant 
bakeries, including whether price transparency would be facilitated 
or hindered by, amongst other things: 
o the level of complexity of the terms of wholesale prices 
(such as rebates, volume discounts and minimum quantity 
takes); 
o the use of across-the-board changes to wholesale prices, 
including price lists; and 
o retail price transparency and the ability to obtain market 
intelligence as to actual wholesale prices through sales 
representatives and contacts with customers; 
 
• how the proposed acquisition would likely affect firm symmetry 
between the remaining plant bakeries (including in respect of 
market shares, cost structures and capacity constraints) and, as 
such, make any tacit price coordination more likely to occur; 
 
• whether there would be environmental factors that would facilitate 
or hinder tacit price coordination, including: 
o the level of transparency in respect of costs, output and/or 
capacity utilisation rates available to plant bakeries, such as 
through industry reports and inter-firm comparisons 
through relevant industry associations; 
o the level of market stability, including in respect of market 
shares over time, demand growth and market maturity; 
o the characteristics of customers and transactions, including 
whether buyers are large and may be able to hinder any 
tacit price coordination by concentrating orders;  
o the elasticity of demand for bread; and 
o the existence of multi-market contacts, co-operative and 
other contractual arrangements and structural links between 
the remaining plant bakeries. 
 
(f) 
How any ability of large supermarkets to constrain the merged firm’s 
wholesale pricing would have a “flow-on” effect in terms of pricing 
 
5


offered by plant bakers to “independent” supermarkets, the route trade 
and the food services industry. 
(g) 
Whether the merged firm would likely face a credible competitive 
constraint from existing competitors that would have the ability and 
incentive to supply at the prices currently offered by GSB to smaller 
customers (“independent” supermarkets, the route trade and the food 
services industry), having regard to any barriers to expansion.  
Relevant factors include: 
• the level of minimum efficient scale required of existing 
competitors to provide an effective competitive constraint on the 
merged firm; 
• the likely costs and time involved in expanding an existing plant 
bakery to enable it to have sufficient capacity to provide an 
effective constraint upon the merged firm and whether the cost of 
the constituent parts are likely to be sunk; 
• the cost of expanding physical distribution capabilities sufficient 
for the likely level of output from such a facility and in order to 
supply throughout southern Queensland and northern New South 
Wales; and 
• the likelihood of an existing competitor acquiring contracts with 
large supermarkets to supply bread for housebrand/generic labels. 
(h) 
Whether the merged firm would likely face a credible competitive 
constraint from a new entrant with the ability and incentive to supply at 
the prices currently offered by GSB to smaller customers 
(“independent” supermarkets, the route trade and the food services 
industry).  Relevant factors include: 
• the level of minimum efficient scale required of a new entrant to 
provide an effective competitive constraint on the merged firm; 
• the likely setup costs and time involved in setting up a new plant 
bakery (capable of meeting minimum efficient scale referred to 
above) and whether the cost of the constituent parts are likely to be 
sunk; 
• the cost of establishing physical distribution capabilities sufficient 
for the likely level of output from such a facility and in order to 
supply throughout southern Queensland and northern New South 
Wales; 
• whether the requirement of a new entrant to achieve a level of 
minimum efficient scale may provide sufficient incentive to supply 
bread products at, or close to, the wholesale prices currently 
offered by GSB; 
 
6


• the level of brand loyalty associated with bread products; 
• relevant government regulations associated with setting up a plant 
bakery; 
• the likelihood of a new entrant/s acquiring contracts with large 
supermarkets to supply bread for housebrand/generic labels; and 
• evidence of recent entry or exit of plant bakers into any wholesale 
bread market in Australia.   
Issues unlikely to pose concerns 
 
23. 
At this stage, the ACCC considers that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to 
pose substantial competition concerns in relation to the supply of: 
• packaged cakes; 
• bakery snacks; 
• flour; and 
• yeast. 
24. 
Nonetheless, the ACCC will accept further submissions from industry 
participants and will further consider these product areas if it considers that such 
an assessment is warranted. 
ACCC's future steps 
 
25. 
The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers market 
responses invited by this Statement of Issues. 
26. 
The ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on each of the 
issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that may be 
relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. 
27. 
Submissions are to be received by the ACCC no later than 1 March 2007.  The 
ACCC will consider the submissions received from the market and the merger 
parties in light of the issues identified above and will, in conjunction with 
information and submissions already provided by the parties, come to a final 
view as to the appropriate course of action to take to resolve any competition 
concerns that remain. 
28. 
The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 15 March 2007. 
However the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Merger Review 
Process Guidelines.  A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose of 
explaining the ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's 
public announcement. 
 
7
