 
Page 1 of 6 
 
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
tel: (02) 6243 1368 
mergers@accc.gov.au
www.accc.gov.au
Our ref: 
IM-71678 
Contact officer: 
Steven Lee 
Contact phone: 
02 6243 1347 
20 June 2022 
Dear Interested Party 
Re: Request for submissions: Microsoft’s proposed acquisition of Activision 
Blizzard 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
the proposed acquisition of Activision Blizzard, Inc. by Microsoft Corporation (the proposed 
acquisition). 
Microsoft is a global technology company that supplies a range of products and services, 
including video games and gaming hardware. Activision Blizzard is a video game developer 
and publisher. Further details are provided at Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact on competition. In particular, we are 
seeking your views on: 
• 
how closely Microsoft and Activision Blizzard compete 
• 
whether price levels will increase or service quality will decrease due to the 
proposed acquisition, and 
• 
whether a combined Microsoft/Activision Blizzard would have the ability to foreclose 
competitors or suppliers of Microsoft or Activision Blizzard.  
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  
This matter is public, and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
Please provide your response by 11 July 2022 via email with the title: Submission re: 
Microsoft/Activision Blizzard - attention Olivia King/Steven Lee. If you require more time to 
respond, please let us know. 


Page 2 of 6 
 
If you would like to arrange a time to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any 
questions about this letter, please contact Olivia King on 03 9290 1498 or Steven Lee on 
02 6243 1347. 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public 
Mergers Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC treats sensitive information it receives during a merger review as confidential, 
and will not publish your submission. We will not disclose submissions to third parties 
(except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of 
information legislation or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the 
Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, we will notify you in advance where possible so that you have an opportunity to 
be heard. Therefore please clearly indicate if any information you provide is confidential. 
Our Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on 
confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
Bruce Mikkelsen 
General Manager (a/g)  
Merger Investigations  


 
Page 3 of 6 
 
Attachment A 
Microsoft 
Microsoft is a publicly listed, US-based global technology company. Microsoft offers a 
range of products and services across various information technology categories.  
As part of its offering, Microsoft: 
a) develops, publishes and distributes video games (including AAA games), 
including in Australia. Microsoft distributes first and third-party digital video 
games through the Microsoft Store and Xbox Store. Microsoft’s top video 
game franchises include Minecraft, Forza and Elder Scrolls Online. 
b) offers video gaming subscription services (for example, Xbox Live and Xbox 
Game Pass), which provide access to first and third-party video games, 
online gaming functionality and cloud gaming functionality. 
c) manufactures and sells dedicated gaming consoles under its Xbox brand. 
Microsoft also manufactures and sells PCs and smartphones. 
d) offers cloud computing services under its Azure brand, including Azure 
PlayFab, which is targeted at video game developers. 
e) generates some revenue from online advertising within video games. 
f) sells and licenses video game-related merchandise and operates an online 
merchandising store, the Microsoft Company Store. 
Activision Blizzard 
Activision Blizzard is a publicly listed, US-based company that operates through 
three main business units: Activision Publishing, Inc (Activision), Blizzard 
Entertainment, Inc (Blizzard) and King Digital Entertainment (King). Activision 
Blizzard: 
a) develops, publishes and distributes video games (including AAA games), 
including in Australia. Activision Blizzard distributes first-party digital video 
games through its digital storefront, Battle.net. Activision Blizzard’s top video 
game franchises include Call of Duty, Candy Crush and Warcraft. 
b) generates revenue from online advertising, particularly in smartphone games. 
c) provides and licenses video game-related merchandise through online 
merchandising stores, such as gear.blizzard.com. 
Areas of overlap and vertical links 
Microsoft and Activision Blizzard overlap in the: 
• 
development and publication of video games, including AAA games, for PC, 
console and smartphone  
• 
digital distribution of video games for PC and console 
• 
supply of online display advertising services, and 
• 
supply and licensing of video game-related merchandise. 
There are also a number of non-horizontal links between Microsoft and Activision 
Blizzard’s activities, including: 
• 
Activision Blizzard developing and publishing video games, including AAA 
games, that are available through Microsoft’s distribution channels. 
• 
Activision Blizzard developing and publishing video games, including AAA 
games, that are playable on Microsoft’s gaming hardware devices, including 
its gaming consoles.  
 


Page 4 of 6 
 
Attachment B 
About your business 
1. Please describe your business or organisation and explain your interest in the 
proposed acquisition, including any commercial or competitive relationship(s) with 
Microsoft or Activision Blizzard. 
2. Please describe the kinds of video game-related products and/or services you 
supply and/or acquire in Australia. This may include discussion of: 
a) the methods by which you supply and/or acquire products or services. 
b) the geographic dimensions of your activities, if any, including any factors 
specific to Australia. 
Please distinguish between PC, console and smartphone video games in your 
answer. 
3. For each product or service that you supply and/or acquire in Australia, please 
identify your competitors, particularly in Australia, and estimate market shares 
where possible. 
4. In your view, how easy or difficult would it be for a business to: 
a) switch or expand from developing, publishing and/or distributing video 
games on one platform (PC, console or smartphone) to another platform. 
b) enter or expand into your activities. Please consider the likely timeframe 
for market entry and detail any barriers to entry. 
Microsoft and Activision Blizzard 
5. Please describe how and the extent to which Microsoft and Activision Blizzard 
compete in the supply of the following (the areas of overlap):  
a) development and publication of video games, including AAA games 
b) digital distribution of video games, including gaming subscription services 
c) supply of online display advertising services, as relates to video games, 
particularly on smartphones, and 
d) supply and licensing of video game-related merchandise. 
Relevant factors may include price, terms, technical capabilities, or scope of 
offerings.  
6. Please identify and describe alternative customers/suppliers for each area of 
overlap. Please:  
a) explain how and the extent to which these suppliers compete with 
Microsoft and/or Activision Blizzard in respect of each area of overlap, 
taking into account factors such as price, terms, technical capabilities or 
scope of offerings, and 


Page 5 of 6 
 
b) comment on any suppliers you consider to be particularly vigorous or 
effective competitors to Microsoft and/or Activision Blizzard in each area. 
7. Explain how easy or difficult it would be for you to switch from supplying or 
acquiring any of the gaming products and/or services to/from the combined 
Microsoft-Activision Blizzard to another customer or supplier, and the costs and 
timeframes involved. Provide specific examples where possible. 
8. Please discuss whether you would have the ability to bypass supply of any of the 
gaming products and/or services from the combined Microsoft-Activision Blizzard 
by either self-supplying or sponsoring the entry of another supplier. 
Competitive dynamics 
9. In Australia and/or globally, how dynamic, innovative, and competitive is (as 
relevant to you): 
a) each area of overlap 
b) the supply of gaming hardware, particularly dedicated gaming consoles 
c) the supply of ‘AAA’ games 
d) the supply of cloud computing services for the development of video 
games. 
Please distinguish between PC, console and smartphone video games in your 
answer. 
10. How do the main competitors for gaming hardware compare based on factors 
such as price, service quality, exclusive gaming content and share of supply? 
11. How easy or difficult is it for a consumer to switch between gaming hardware 
devices, and how common is it for consumers to use different gaming hardware 
devices simultaneously? 
12. In your view, to what extent can cloud computing services be segmented into 
specialised categories, such as cloud computing services for gaming companies?  
13. Please comment on how you expect any industry developments in the next 3 to 5 
years to impact competition in each area of overlap. Consider factors such as the 
likelihood of new entry, changing consumer/gamer preferences and any relevant 
emerging technologies, business models or practices. 
Impact of the proposed acquisition 
14. Please describe how customers and competitors are likely to respond if a 
combined Microsoft-Activision Blizzard sought to: 
a) increase prices or lower service quality, and/or  
b) make Activision Blizzard video games exclusively available on Microsoft 
consoles or through Microsoft distribution channels, such as the Xbox 
Store or Game Pass subscription service.  


Page 6 of 6 
 
15. In your view, what is the likelihood and potential impact of Microsoft limiting: 
a) your ability to offer Activision Blizzard video games 
b) access to its digital storefronts, such as the Xbox Store, and/or 
c) access to its cloud computing services (Microsoft Azure). 
Please provide reasons to support your view. 
16. In what way and to what extent, if any, would the proposed acquisition be likely to 
affect the incentives for: 
a) developers and publishers to develop and publish video games for PCs, 
consoles and smartphones, and 
b) distributors to distribute digital video games for PCs, consoles and 
smartphones.  
Additional information or comments 
17. Please provide any additional information or comments that you consider relevant 
to the ACCC’s consideration of the proposed acquisition under section 50 of the 
Competition and Consumer Act 2010. 
