 
Page 1 of 10 
 
Public Competition Assessment 
18 November 2024 
Stockland and Supalai - Proposed Acquisition of 12 
residential masterplanned communities from Lendlease 
Group  
 
The ACCC’s decision 
1. 
On 26 September 2024, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission 
announced its decision not to oppose the proposed acquisition by Stockland 
Supalai Residential Communities Partnership Pty Ltd (SSRCP) of 12 Lendlease 
Group (Lendlease) residential masterplanned communities (MPC) projects (the 
Proposed Acquisition) after accepting a court-enforceable undertaking from 
Stockland Corporation Limited to divest its ‘Forest Reach’ MPC project in 
Illawarra (the Undertaking).  
2. 
SSRCP is jointly owned by Stockland Communities Partnership HoldCo Pty Ltd 
(Stockland) (50.1%) and Supalai Australia Holdings Pty Limited (Supalai) 
(49.9%). 
3. 
The Undertaking requires Stockland Corporation Limited to divest its existing 
Forest Reach MPC project in Illawarra to an ACCC-approved purchaser.  
4. 
The ACCC considers that the Proposed Acquisition, without the Undertaking, 
would be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in 
contravention of section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the 
Act). Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to 
have the effect, of substantially lessening competition in any market. The ACCC 
considers that the Undertaking sufficiently addresses the ACCC’s competition 
concerns such that the Proposed Acquisition is not likely to contravene section 
50 of the Act. 
5. 
The ACCC considered the competitive effects of the Proposed Acquisition in the 
following markets:  


 
Page 2 of 10 
▪ 
the supply of residential MPC housing in Illawarra, North West Perth, 
Ipswich, Moreton Bay, and 7 other local areas,1  
▪ 
the acquisition of land for residential development, and 
▪ 
the procurement of building and construction services. 
6. 
The ACCC considers that, without the Undertaking, the Proposed Acquisition 
would be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in the 
supply of residential MPC housing in the Illawarra region.   
7. 
The ACCC considers that Stockland and Lendlease compete closely as the two 
largest existing suppliers of residential MPC housing in the Illawarra region, and 
that there are few alternative MPC developers that could constrain Stockland 
post-acquisition. Stockland offered the Undertaking to address the ACCC’s 
competition concerns in this region. 
8. 
The ACCC considers that the Proposed Acquisition would not have the effect, 
nor be likely to have the effect, of substantially lessening competition in any 
other market, including: 
• 
the supply of residential MPC housing in North West Perth, Ipswich, 
Moreton Bay, and 7 other local areas,  
• 
the acquisition of land for residential development, and 
• 
the procurement of building and construction services. 
9. 
This Public Competition Assessment outlines reasons for the decision by the 
ACCC not to oppose the Proposed Acquisition, taking into account the 
Undertaking.  
10. 
Please note that this and other public competition assessments are subject to 
the following qualifications: 
▪ 
The ACCC considers each transaction on a case-by-case basis and so the 
analysis and decision outlined in one assessment will not necessarily 
reflect the ACCC’s view of another transaction. 
▪ 
As assessments are relatively brief and do not refer to confidential 
information, assessments do not necessarily set out all of the issues and 
information considered by the ACCC.  
The parties and the transaction 
The acquirer: SSRCP 
11. 
SSRCP is a wholly owned subsidiary of SSRCP HoldCo Pty Ltd which is owned 
by Stockland (50.1%) and Supalai (49.9%). It is a special purpose acquisition 
vehicle for the Proposed Acquisition.  
 
 
1  
This included the supply of residential MPC housing in South-West Sydney (NSW), Redlands (QLD), 
Logan (QLD), Melton (VIC), Whittlesea (VIC), Casey/Cardinia (VIC), and Wyndham (VIC).  


 
Page 3 of 10 
Stockland 
12. 
Stockland is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Stockland Corporation Limited 
(together with its subsidiaries, Stockland Group). Stockland Group is an ASX-
listed diversified Australian property group that owns, funds, develops and 
manages portfolios of investment properties including retail town centres, 
commercial properties, industrial and logistics properties, MPC projects and land 
lease communities. Stockland Group currently has interests in 30 MPC projects 
across NSW, ACT, Queensland, Victoria and Western Australia. 
Supalai 
13. 
Supalai is a wholly owned subsidiary of Supalai Public Company Limited, which 
is listed on the Stock Exchange of Thailand. Supalai Public Company Limited 
principally operates as a property developer. Supalai has investments in 10 MPC 
projects in Victoria, Queensland and Western Australia through joint ventures 
with other developers, including Mirvac, Stockland, Satterley, Peet and ICD 
Property. 
The target: Lendlease MPC projects 
14. 
Lendlease is an ASX-listed, global real estate business, which has core 
capabilities in real estate development, construction and investment 
management. Lendlease’s MPC development business constitutes one of two 
residential portfolios currently operated by Lendlease: communities and 
apartments. Lendlease’s MPC development business (Lendlease Communities) 
comprises 16 MPC projects across NSW, Queensland, Victoria and Western 
Australia.  
The transaction 
15. 
The Proposed Acquisition includes a portfolio of 12 of Lendlease’s 16 residential 
MPC projects, located across greenfield growth areas within Greater Sydney, 
South East Queensland, Greater Melbourne, and Greater Perth, and a separate 
agreement to acquire the employees and intellectual property associated with 
the MPC Projects.  
Market inquiries 
16. 
The ACCC conducted market inquiries with a range of industry participants, 
including competitors, potential competitors, input suppliers, industry bodies, 
other regulatory agencies, and other interested parties.  
17. 
The ACCC consulted on the competition issues associated with the Proposed 
Acquisition. 
Industry background 
18. 
MPC housing projects are residential developments on greenfield land which are 
typically delivered in phases over multiple years. MPC projects are characterised 
by access to amenities with a focus on ‘community living’, such as open spaces, 
recreational facilities, education, and community hubs, as well as commercial or 
retail centres. 


 
Page 4 of 10 
19. 
The development of MPC projects involves: 
 
20. 
On a state and growth corridor basis, demand is driven by net immigration, 
population growth, and net interstate and inter-region migration. Governments 
can support the supply of new housing by making new land available for 
development. These new land parcels are typically situated in a ‘growth corridor’, 
whereby certain areas of a region are designated for economic growth and 
development. 
Competition analysis in respect of the supply of residential 
MPC housing 
21. 
The ACCC considered the effect of the Proposed Acquisition on the supply of 
residential MPC housing in local areas of overlap, including: 
• 
horizontal unilateral effects in local areas where Stockland, Supalai, 
and/or Lendlease overlap, and 
• 
the increased likelihood of coordinated effects between Stockland, 
Supalai, and/or Supalai’s joint venture partners in local areas of overlap. 
Market definition 
22. 
The ACCC’s starting point for identifying the markets that would be affected by 
the Proposed Acquisition is to ascertain the areas of overlap between the 
products actually or potentially supplied by the merger parties. The ACCC then 
considers other actual or potential suppliers of those products, as well as what 
other products constitute sufficiently close substitutes to provide a significant 
source of constraint on the combined entity.  
Product dimension 
23. 
The ACCC considered that the product dimension of the markets is for the 
supply of residential MPC housing. The parties are engaged in the activity of 
developing new housing lots to meet increased housing demand (e.g. through 
population growth and migration), and the ACCC found that residential MPC 
developers compete most closely with other residential MPC developers.  
24. 
The ACCC considered that established housing, including detached dwellings 
(as well as townhouses and apartments), was fixed in supply and is not likely to 
impose an effective constraint on Stockland and/or Supalai to prevent a 
substantial lessening of competition post-acquisition. 
Geographic dimension 
25. 
The ACCC considered the impact of the Proposed Acquisition on 11 local areas 
that contained one or more of the MPC projects that formed part of the Proposed 


 
Page 5 of 10 
Acquisition. The local areas examined corresponded to growth corridors 
generally on the outskirts of major population centres. While the ACCC did not 
form a concluded view on the precise geographic dimensions of these local 
areas, it did have regard to local area considerations (such as topography), as 
well as market feedback which indicated that competition is generally localised to 
suburban catchment areas of an approximately 15 km radius. 
Competition analysis in respect of the supply of residential MPC housing 
in Illawarra 
26. 
In Illawarra, Stockland has the Forest Reach MPC project and Lendlease has 
the Calderwood Valley MPC project. 
27. 
The ACCC considers that the market for the supply of residential MPC housing 
in Illawarra is highly concentrated, with Stockland and Lendlease competing 
closely as the two largest MPC developers with few alternative MPC developers 
in this region.  
28. 
The ACCC found that Stockland’s Forest Reach MPC and Lendlease’s 
Calderwood Valley are geographically close (within ~7 km), provide similar 
pricing and lot sizes, and are both located near Wollongong CBD (22-minute and 
25-minute drives respectively). Market feedback further indicated that Stockland 
and Lendlease compete for and attract a similar customer demographic including 
families and first-home buyers, particularly as both parties have a strong 
community offering and a similar price range. 
29. 
The ACCC closely considered the estimated number of remaining lots from 
existing and future MPC projects in the Illawarra region up to and including 
FY29.  
30. 
The ACCC found that there are few existing alternative MPC developments, and 
those which are in the region have limited remaining lots, particularly compared 
to Stockland and SSRCP post-acquisition. Further, many of these alternative 
developments appear unlikely to be able to increase or bring-forward their lot 
releases in response to an exercise of market power post-acquisition.  
31. 
Additionally, the ACCC considers that barriers to entry and expansion in the 
Illawarra region are high, and the timing of future entry is highly uncertain given 
delays in the delivery of essential infrastructure and rezoning/planning approvals. 
Competition conclusion 
32. 
Given the insufficient number and size of existing and expected future alternative 
developments in Illawarra to constrain Stockland post-acquisition, the ACCC is 
concerned that the Proposed Acquisition would increase: 
a) Stockland’s incentives to raise the price, delay the supply, or reduce the 
quality of offerings from its Forest Reach MPC. Post acquisition, Stockland 
would benefit from such actions to some extent through the resulting 
increase in the demand for, and price of, SSRCP’s lots at its Calderwood 
Valley MPC project,  
b) Stockland’s incentives to influence SSRCP’s strategic decisions – for 
example, by preventing or hindering SSRCP from competitively responding 


 
Page 6 of 10 
to Stockland’s conduct in relation to Forest Reach by bringing forward the 
supply or increasing the quality of lots from SSRCP’s Calderwood Valley 
MPC project, and  
c) the likelihood of coordination between Stockland and Supalai on the pricing, 
supply, or quality of their overall holdings of MPC lots across both the Forest 
Reach and Calderwood Valley projects to increase their combined profits. 
33. 
As such, the ACCC considers that, without the Undertaking, the Proposed 
Acquisition would be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening 
competition in the supply of residential MPC housing in Illawarra. 
Competition analysis in respect of the supply of residential MPC housing 
in North West Perth 
34. 
In North West Perth, Stockland’s MPCs are the Amberton Beach, Mariginiup, 
and Illyarrie projects, Lendlease’s MPCs are the Alkimos Beach and Alkimos 
Vista project, and Supalai has an interest in the Elavale MPC project (in respect 
of which Peet Limited is also a development partner). 
35. 
The ACCC had preliminary concerns in relation to North West Perth primarily 
due to the closeness of competition between the parties in Alkimos (~5 km 
radius) and the few alternatives in that region, particularly over the short to 
medium term.  
36. 
Market feedback after the release of the Statement of Issues indicated that 
residential MPC housing in Yanchep (~10 km north of Alkimos) provided a 
competitive and increasingly attractive option for customers. Inquiries suggested 
Yanchep is a high growth area with significant infrastructure investment, 
including a railway line connecting Yanchep to Alkimos and the Perth CBD that 
commenced operations in July 2024.  
Competition conclusion 
37. 
Given the availability of alternative MPC developers in Alkimos and further north 
in Eglinton and Yanchep, the ACCC found that there are several large additional 
developments capable of competitively constraining Stockland and Supalai post-
acquisition. This includes comparable developments that would undermine the 
conditions for, or lessen the risk of, co-ordination between Stockland, Supalai, 
and Peet on the pricing, supply, or quality of their MPC offerings post-acquisition.  
38. 
Following further investigation and information from industry, the ACCC also 
considered that certain governance restrictions and agreements with landowners 
would mitigate risks of co-ordination. 
39. 
On this basis, the ACCC considers that the Proposed Acquisition would not have 
the effect, nor be likely to have the effect, of substantially lessening competition 
in the supply of residential MPC housing in North West Perth. 


 
Page 7 of 10 
Competition analysis in respect of the supply of residential MPC housing 
in Ipswich 
40. 
In Ipswich, Stockland has the Kalina, Providence, and Botanica MPC projects, 
Lendlease has the Springfield Rise MPC project, and Supalai has an interest in 
Eden’s Crossing MPC project. 
41. 
The ACCC had preliminary concerns that the Proposed Acquisition would bring 
together Stockland and Lendlease as the only two MPC developers in 
Springfield, which the ACCC understood was one of the most established 
suburbs in the region with a strong amenity offering.  
42. 
However, further investigation indicated that nearby suburbs to Springfield, 
including White Rock and Ripley (approximately 9 and 15 minute drives away 
respectively), also have strong amenity offerings. Each of these suburbs has 
large MPC projects, including SIG Group’s Amory MPC and Intrapac’s Whiterock 
MPC. The ACCC considers these MPC projects offer similar access to amenities 
to Springfield, including schools, parks, and shopping centres.  
43. 
The ACCC understands that there are 26 existing alternative MPC projects 
within a 15 km radius of Springfield, and that Lendlease’s Springfield Rise 
project is approaching completion such that the incremental increase in 
Stockland’s and Supalai’s incentives to exercise market power post-acquisition 
would be minimal.  
Competition conclusion 
44. 
Given the low incremental increase in Stockland’s incentives to exercise market 
power and the availability of nearby alternative developments with comparable 
amenity offerings to Stockland, Lendlease, and Supalai’s projects, the ACCC 
considers that the Proposed Acquisition would not have the effect, nor be likely 
to have the effect, of substantially lessening competition in the supply of 
residential MPC housing in Ipswich.  
Competition analysis in respect of the supply of residential MPC housing 
in Moreton Bay 
45. 
In Moreton Bay, Stockland’s MPCs include its existing Newport project and a 
future Caboolture West project. Lendlease’s MPC is Kinma Valley, and Supalai 
has an interest in the Ridgeview MPC project. The ACCC understands that the 
Proposed Acquisition would bring together Kinma Valley and Caboolture West 
as the two largest MPC housing offerings in the region based on estimated 
remaining lots.  
46. 
At the time the Statement of Issues was published, the ACCC had preliminary 
concerns that alternative MPC developers in the Moreton Bay region may not 
constrain Stockland and Supalai post-acquisition, given the alternatives are 
predominantly small to mid-tier developments. The ACCC was concerned 
alternative MPC developers may not provide the same level of amenity or overall 
quality provided by Stockland and Lendlease, particularly in relation to amenities 
such as community spaces, parks, and access to schools.  
47. 
However, further investigation indicated that the small to mid-tier developments 
in this area are likely to provide a competitive constraint, particularly those 


 
Page 8 of 10 
located near amenities in established suburbs and/or larger MPC developments. 
The ACCC understands some smaller MPC developers leverage nearby 
amenities as part of their marketing to customers even if they are not located 
within their MPC project.  
Competition conclusion 
48. 
Accordingly, the ACCC considers that the Proposed Acquisition would not have 
the effect, nor be likely to have the effect, of substantially lessening competition 
in the supply of residential MPC housing in Moreton Bay as there are sufficient 
alternatives available that would impose a competitive constraint on Stockland 
and Supalai post-acquisition. 
Competition analysis in respect of the supply of residential 
MPC housing in 7 local areas 
49. 
The ACCC considers that the Proposed Acquisition would not have the effect, 
nor be likely to have the effect, of substantially lessening competition in the 
supply of residential MPC housing in the following 7 local areas: 
• 
South-West Sydney, NSW 
• 
Redlands, QLD 
• 
Logan, QLD 
• 
Melton, VIC 
• 
Whittlesea, VIC 
• 
Casey/Cardinia, VIC 
• 
Wyndham, VIC. 
50. 
This assessment reflects one or more of the following factors: limited-to-no 
overlap between Stockland, Supalai and/or Lendlease; sufficient alternative MPC 
developers available to effectively constrain Stockland and Supalai; and/or low 
combined shares of MPC housing supply. On the whole, market participants did 
not identify competition concerns with the Proposed Acquisition in relation to the 
supply of residential MPC housing in these 7 local areas. 
Competition analysis in respect of the acquisition of land 
51. 
The ACCC considers the Proposed Acquisition would not have the effect, nor be 
likely to have the effect, of substantially lessening competition in any market for 
the acquisition of land (or development rights pursuant to a project development 
agreement) for residential development, whether on a national, state, or regional 
basis.  
52. 
The ACCC found that the acquisition of land is generally highly competitive with 
numerous large and small MPC developers actively seeking landholdings, 
particularly as opportunities to acquire new land suitable for MPC development is 


 
Page 9 of 10 
limited, and that several large and small MPC developers would continue to 
constrain Stockland and SSRCP. 
Competition analysis in respect of the procurement of 
building and construction services  
53. 
The ACCC considers the Proposed Acquisition would not have the effect, nor be 
likely to have the effect, of substantially lessening competition in any market for 
the procurement of building and construction services for MPC developments, 
whether on a national, state, or regional basis.  
54. 
The ACCC’s investigation indicated that Stockland and Lendlease do not 
typically procure residential building services, with purchasers being more likely 
to separately procure building and construction services (including as part of a 
‘house and land’ package).  
55. 
Additionally, the ACCC found that Stockland and Lendlease account for a small 
proportion of demand for the procurement of civil works construction services for 
MPC development (e.g., roads, sewage, water, public parks). 
Undertakings 
56. 
In order to address the ACCC’s competition concerns in relation to the supply of 
residential MPC housing in the Illawarra region, Stockland Corporation Limited 
offered an Undertaking pursuant to section 87B of the Act.  
57. 
The ACCC considers that the Undertaking will address its competition concerns 
with the Proposed Acquisition as it requires Stockland to divest its Forest Reach 
MPC in the Illawarra region, effectively removing the overlap between the parties 
in this region. The Undertaking aims to create or strengthen a viable, effective, 
stand-alone, and independent competitor for the supply of residential MPC 
housing in the Illawarra region. 
58. 
An independent manager will manage Forest Reach from the period that SSRCP 
acquires Calderwood Valley in Illawarra (one of the 12 Lendlease targets under 
the Proposed Acquisition) until such time as the divestiture of Forest Reach is 
complete. An independent auditor will also be appointed to audit Stockland 
Corporation Limited’s compliance with the Undertaking. 
59. 
A copy of the Undertaking is available on the ACCC mergers register and 
undertakings register. A brief summary of the Undertaking is set out below: 


 
Page 10 of 10 
• 
Stockland Corporation Limited will divest the Forest Reach MPC project to an 
ACCC-approved purchaser, 
• 
the Forest Reach MPC project includes all the necessary associated assets 
and rights for the eventual purchaser to compete effectively with SSRCP in the 
supply of residential MPC housing in the Illawarra region, 
• 
Stockland Corporation Limited must maintain the economic viability, 
marketability, competitiveness and goodwill of the Forest Reach MPC project 
prior to divestiture, and  
• 
Stockland Corporation Limited must appoint and maintain an ACCC-approved 
independent auditor for the effective oversight of Stockland’s compliance with 
the Undertaking. 
Conclusion 
60. 
Based on the above analysis, the ACCC considers that SSRCP’s Proposed 
Acquisition of 12 Lendlease residential MPC projects, in the absence of the 
Undertaking, would be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening 
competition in the supply of residential MPC housing in the Illawarra region. 
61. 
However, the ACCC considers that the Undertaking addresses these 
competition concerns, such that, with the Undertaking, the Proposed Acquisition 
would not have the effect, nor be likely to have the effect, of substantially 
lessening competition in any market. 
 
 
