 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Undertaking to the Australian 
Competition and Consumer 
Commission 
 
 
 
Given under section 87B of the Competition and 
Consumer Act 2010 (Cth) by Stockland 
Corporation Limited ACN 000 181 733 


Contents 
1. 
Person giving the Undertaking ................................................................................ 1 
2. 
Background ............................................................................................................... 1 
3. 
Commencement of this Undertaking ...................................................................... 3 
4. 
Cessation of Ongoing Obligations .......................................................................... 3 
5. 
Divestiture of the Divestiture Business .................................................................. 3 
6. 
Process for approving a proposed purchaser ....................................................... 7 
7. 
Divestiture Business Protection .............................................................................. 9 
8. 
Independent Management of the Divestiture Business ...................................... 11 
9. 
Independent Audit .................................................................................................. 15 
10. Failure to divest the Divestiture Business within the Initial Sale Period ........... 19 
11. Notification of key dates and ACCC requests for information ........................... 24 
12. Disclosure of this Undertaking .............................................................................. 25 
13. Obligation to procure ............................................................................................. 26 
14. No Derogation ......................................................................................................... 26 
15. Change of Control .................................................................................................. 26 
16. Costs ........................................................................................................................ 26 
17. Notices ..................................................................................................................... 26 
18. Defined terms and interpretation .......................................................................... 27 
Schedule 1 – Dictionary and interpretation .................................................................. 30 
Schedule 2 – Proposed Purchaser Notice Form........................................................... 36 
Schedule 3 – Proposed Undertaking Appointment Form ............................................ 39 
Schedule 4 – Divestiture Business ................................................................................ 43 
Confidential Schedule 5 .................................................................................................. 44 
 


1 
 
1. 
Person giving the Undertaking 
1.1. 
This Undertaking is given to the Australian Competition and Consumer 
Commission (ACCC) by Stockland Corporation Limited ACN 000 181 733 on 
behalf of itself and its subsidiaries (together referred to as (Stockland) in this 
Undertaking). 
2. 
Background 
 
The parties to the proposed acquisition 
 
2.1. 
Stockland Supalai Residential Communities Partnership Pty Ltd (SSRCP) is a 
wholly owned subsidiary of SSRCP HoldCo Pty Ltd which is owned by Stockland 
Communities Partnership HoldCo Pty Ltd (50.1%) and Supalai Australia Holdings 
Pty Limited (Supalai) (49.9%). SSRCP is a special purpose acquisition vehicle 
for the proposed acquisition. 
 
2.2. 
Stockland Communities Partnership HoldCo Pty Ltd is a wholly-owned subsidiary 
of Stockland. Stockland is an ASX-listed diversified Australian property group that 
owns, funds, develops and manages portfolios of investment properties including 
retail town centres, commercial properties, industrial and logistics properties, 
MPC projects and land lease communities. Stockland currently has interests in 
43 MPC projects across NSW, ACT, Queensland, Victoria and Western Australia. 
 
2.3. 
Lendlease Group (Lendlease) is an ASX-listed, global real estate business, 
which has core capabilities in real estate development, construction and 
investment management. Lendlease’s MPC development business is one of 
three residential portfolios currently operated by Lendlease: communities, 
apartments and retirement living. Lendlease’s MPC development business 
(Lendlease Communities) comprises 16 MPC projects across NSW, Queensland, 
Victoria and Western Australia. 
 
The Proposed Acquisition 
 
2.4. 
SSRCP proposes to acquire 12 of Lendlease’s 16 residential MPC projects, 
located across greenfield growth areas within Greater Sydney, South East 
Queensland, Greater Melbourne, and Greater Perth (Proposed Acquisition). 
 
2.5. 
The Proposed Acquisition includes the acquisition of property interests, buildings, 
contracts and agreements, and intellectual property rights necessary for 
Stockland to operate and continue the development of the Calderwood Valley 
masterplanned community project located at the corner of Escarpment Drive and 
Bushgrove Circuit, Calderwood in New South Wales (Calderwood Valley 
Acquisition). 
 
The ACCC’s review 
 
2.6. 
On 8 February 2024, the ACCC commenced its public review of the Proposed 
Acquisition. 
 
2.7. 
The ACCC undertook market inquiries and considered information provided by 
the parties to the Proposed Acquisition, industry participants and others. The 
purpose of the ACCC’s inquiries was to assess whether the Proposed Acquisition 
would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of substantially lessening 
competition in any market in Australia in contravention of section 50 of the Act. 


2 
 
2.8. 
Stockland does not consider that the Proposed Acquisition would have the effect, 
or be likely to have the effect, of substantially lessening competition in any 
relevant market. However, to address the ACCC's competition concerns, 
Stockland has offered this Undertaking pursuant to section 87B of the Act. 
 
The ACCC’s competition concerns 
 
2.9. 
The ACCC was concerned that, in the absence of the Undertaking, the Proposed 
Acquisition would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of substantially 
lessening competition in the supply of residential MPC housing in the Illawarra 
region. 
 
2.10. 
The ACCC was concerned that the Proposed Acquisition would bring together the 
two largest existing MPC housing lot offerings (Stockland’s Forest Reach Project 
and Lendlease’s Calderwood Valley project) in an already highly concentrated 
Illawarra region. 
 
2.11. 
The ACCC was concerned that, absent this Undertaking, Stockland would 
following the Proposed Acquisition, have an increased incentive to increase 
prices, delay supply and/or degrade quality of its own MPC project. This is 
because such conduct would likely benefit Stockland through the resulting 
increase in demand for, and price of SSRCP’s MPC lots (to the extent lots in 
Calderwood Valley are a substitute for lots in the Forest Reach Project). The 
ACCC also considered that Stockland would have incentives to influence 
SSRCP’s strategic decisions, for example, by preventing or hindering SSRCP 
from competitively responding to any such conduct by Stockland (such as by 
bringing forward its own lot releases). Finally, the ACCC was concerned that the 
Proposed Acquisition may increase the likelihood of coordination between 
Stockland and Supalai in the Illawarra region. 
 
2.12. 
The ACCC also considered that alternative developments and the threat of timely 
new entry or expansion would be unlikely to provide an effective constraint on 
Stockland and/or SSRCP post-acquisition. 
 
The Undertaking remedy 
 
2.13. 
The objective of this Undertaking is to address the ACCC’s competition concerns 
as set out above that would otherwise arise as a consequence of the Proposed 
Acquisition. The Undertaking aims to achieve this objective by placing 
obligations on Stockland: 
 
(a) 
to ensure that the Divestiture Business is sold to an Approved Purchaser 
that will result in the creation or strengthening of a viable, effective, stand- 
alone and independent competitor for the supply of residential MPC housing 
in the Illawarra region; 
 
(b) 
to ensure the purchaser of the Divestiture Business has all the necessary 
associated assets and rights to compete effectively with SSRCP in the 
supply of residential MPC housing in the Illawarra region; 
 
(c) 
to maintain the economic viability, marketability, competitiveness and 
goodwill of the Divestiture Business prior to divestiture; and 
 
(d) 
to provide for the effective oversight of Stockland’s compliance with this 
Undertaking. 


3 
 
3. 
Commencement of this Undertaking 
 
3.1. 
This Undertaking comes into effect when: 
 
(a) 
this Undertaking is executed by Stockland; and 
 
(b) 
this Undertaking so executed is accepted by the ACCC 
(the Commencement Date). 
 
4. 
Cessation of Ongoing Obligations 
 
Revocation 
 
4.1. 
The ACCC may, at any time, revoke its acceptance of this Undertaking if the 
ACCC becomes aware that any information provided to it was incorrect, 
inaccurate or misleading. Such a revocation must be express and in writing. 
 
Waiver 
 
4.2. 
The ACCC may, at any time, waive any of the obligations contained in this 
Undertaking. Such a waiver must be express and in writing. 
 
Extension 
 
4.3. 
The ACCC may, at any time, extend the date by which any of the obligations in 
this Undertaking is to be satisfied. Such an extension must be express and in 
writing. 
 
Survival 
 
4.4. 
Unless and until this Undertaking is withdrawn in accordance with s87B(2) of the 
Act, clauses 1, 2, 3, 4, 9, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 and 17 survive completion of the 
obligations in clauses 5, 6, 7, 8, 10 and Schedule 4 and Confidential Schedule 5. 
 
5. 
Divestiture of the Divestiture Business 
 
Divestiture 
 
5.1. 
Stockland must, in accordance with this Undertaking, divest, or cause the 
divestiture of, the Divestiture Business only to an Approved Purchaser. 
 
5.2. 
In the event that clause 10 applies, Stockland must not authorise the Approved 
Divestiture Agent to divest the Unsold Business to a purchaser other than an 
Approved Purchaser. 
 
5.3. 
Stockland must divest, or cause the divestiture of, the Divestiture Business by: 
 
(a) the sale, assignment, transfer and/or licence of all of the assets in Schedule 
4 to the Approved Purchaser, pursuant to the Approved Sale and Purchase 
Agreement and within the Initial Sale Period, otherwise clause 10 applies; 
 
(b) the transfer or grant to the Approved Purchaser of all Consents pursuant to 
clauses 5.5 to 5.6; 


4 
 
(c) 
the transfer of any Transferred Personnel required pursuant to clauses 5.8 
to 5.9; 
 
(d) 
compliance with any Approved Transitional Technical Assistance 
Agreement required pursuant to clauses 5.10 to 5.12; and 
 
(e) 
compliance with any Approved Transitional Supply Agreement required 
pursuant to clauses 5.13 to 5.15. 
 
5.4. 
From the Commencement Date, Stockland must take all reasonable steps 
available to it to effect completion of the divestiture of the Divestiture Business to 
an Approved Purchaser as soon as possible. 
 
Consents 
 
5.5. 
Stockland must: 
 
(a) 
obtain or assist the Approved Purchaser to obtain as expeditiously as 
possible, all Consents as required before completion of the divestiture of the 
Divestiture Business; 
 
(b) 
comply with all requirements necessary to obtain any Consents, including 
by promptly providing all information necessary for the Consents to be 
given; 
 
(c) 
act in good faith in its negotiations with the Approved Purchaser in relation 
to obtaining any Consents; 
 
(d) 
promptly pay the costs and expenses of any third party reasonably incurred 
in providing the Consents; and 
 
(e) 
enter an agreement with the Approved Purchaser and approved by the 
ACCC, or vary any existing Approved Transitional Supply Agreement as 
required by the Approved Purchaser, in relation to any goods or services 
that are required for the operation of the Divestiture Business which may be 
affected by any failure to gain a Consent. 
 
5.6. 
If, seven Business Days before completion of the divestiture of the Divestiture 
Business, the Approved Purchaser does not or is otherwise unable to obtain one 
or more Consents, then Stockland must: 
 
(a) 
immediately provide to the ACCC in writing details of the: 
 
(i) 
Consents that have not been obtained; 
 
(ii) 
reasons why the Consents have not been obtained; and 
 
(iii) 
information or material required to obtain the Consents. 
 
(b) 
continue to do everything in its power to satisfy clause 5.5 as soon as 
possible after the completion of the divestiture of the Divestiture Business 
(and until such time as clause 5.5 is satisfied). 
 
5.7. 
Even if Stockland has complied with clause 5.5 to 5.6, Stockland will be in breach 
of this Undertaking if Stockland is unable to effect the divestiture of the 
Divestiture Business by reason that one or more Consents are not obtained. 


5 
 
Transferred Personnel 
 
5.8. 
At the option of the Approved Purchaser, Stockland must transfer to the 
Approved Purchaser: 
 
(a) 
all employees; and 
 
(b) 
all service providers under a contract for service; 
 
who are, in the view of the Approved Purchaser, required for the Approved 
Purchaser to maintain, operate or conduct effectively the Divestiture Business 
and who consent to the transfer of their employment or contract for service to the 
Approved Purchaser (Transferred Personnel). 
 
5.9. 
When fulfilling its obligations under clause 5.8, Stockland must: 
 
(a) 
encourage all Transferred Personnel to remain with the Divestiture 
Business, including offering incentives based on industry practice; 
 
(b) 
not directly or indirectly discourage any Transferred Personnel from any 
obligations to provide services to the Divestiture Business; 
 
(c) 
effective on the date of the divestiture of the Divestiture Business, release 
the Transferred Personnel from any obligations to provide services to 
Stockland; 
 
(d) 
effective on the date of the divestiture of the Divestiture Business, release 
the Transferred Personnel from any non-compete or similar restraint of 
trade obligation, to the extent that such an obligation would otherwise 
prevent the person from performing his or her contemplated role in relation 
to the Divestiture Business or Unsold Business; and 
 
(e) 
not procure, promote or encourage the transfer of any of the Transferred 
Personnel from the Approved Purchaser to Stockland for a period of 12 
months after the completion of the divestiture of the Divestiture Business. 
 
Technical Assistance 
 
5.10. 
At the option of the Approved Purchaser, Stockland must supply to the Approved 
Purchaser, under an Approved Transitional Technical Assistance Agreement, any 
Technical Assistance that is required by the Approved Purchaser in order to 
operate the Divestiture Business. 
 
5.11. 
Stockland must ensure that any Approved Transitional Technical Assistance 
Agreement, and any renewal or extension of an Approved Transitional Technical 
Assistance Agreement, provides for the supply of Technical Assistance: 
 
(a) 
on a transitional basis for a period that is nominated by the Approved 
Purchaser and approved in writing by the ACCC; and 
 
(b) 
at cost price and otherwise on arm’s length terms. 
 
5.12. 
To avoid doubt, Stockland must seek prior written approval from the ACCC of any 
renewal or extension of an Approved Transitional Technical Assistance 
Agreement. Without limiting the ACCC’s discretion in making a decision on 
whether to approve a renewal or extension of an Approved Transitional Technical 
Assistance Agreement, the ACCC will have regard to the criteria set out in 
clauses 5.10 and 5.11. 


6 
 
Transitional Supply Agreements 
 
5.13. 
At the option of the Approved Purchaser, Stockland must ensure the continued 
supply by Stockland to the Approved Purchaser, under an Approved Transitional 
Supply Agreement, of any goods or services that are required by the Approved 
Purchaser in order for the Approved Purchaser to be established as a viable, 
effective, stand-alone and independent competitor in the supply of residential 
MPC housing in the Illawarra region. 
 
5.14. 
Stockland must ensure that any Approved Transitional Supply Agreement and 
any renewal or extension of an Approved Transitional Supply Agreement: 
 
(a) 
is for a reasonable transitional period, to be nominated by the Approved 
Purchaser and approved in writing by the ACCC; 
 
(b) 
provides for the supply of the included goods and services at cost price; and 
 
(c) 
is on such terms other than price which are no less favourable to the 
Approved Purchaser than arm's length terms. 
 
5.15. 
To avoid doubt, Stockland must seek prior written approval from the ACCC of any 
renewal or extension of an Approved Transitional Supply Agreement. Without 
limiting the ACCC’s discretion in making a decision on whether to approve a 
renewal or extension of an Approved Transitional Supply Agreement, the ACCC 
will have regard to the criteria set out in clauses 5.13 and 5.14. 
 
Proposed Purchaser’s option regarding the C2 Land and contributions 
reconciliation 
 
5.16. 
No later than 40 Business Days before the end of the Initial Sale Period, a 
Proposed Purchaser may, at its option, request Stockland to dedicate or transfer 
the title comprising the C2 Land to the Council at no cost to the Council and/or 
seek to reconcile contributions in Stages 1-3A under Consent to DA 2020/673 
and monetary contribution obligations under Consent to DA 2023/19 against 
works in kind already performed by Stockland. 
 
5.17. 
If a Proposed Purchaser exercises the option in clause 5.16, and with the prior 
written consent of the ACCC, Stockland must, in consultation with the Proposed 
Purchaser, take any actions as reasonably required to give effect to the Proposed 
Purchaser’s request which may include but are not limited to any of the following: 
 
(a) 
procure the registration of a plan of subdivision of development lot 
197/1258914 to create a separate title comprising the C2 Land; 
 
(b) 
request the Minister's agreement to remove the State VPA from the C2 
Land; 
 
(c) 
enter into a Biodiversity Stewardship Agreement over the C2 Land, which 
will be registered on the title to the C2 Land; and/or 
 
(d) 
enter into one or more voluntary planning agreements with the Council to: 
 
(i) 
dedicate or transfer the C2 Land to Council free of cost; 
 
(ii) 
make a monetary contribution to the Council to apply towards the in- 
perpetuity maintenance of the C2 Land; and/or 


7 
 
(iii) 
acknowledge that the value of the works in kind performed by 
Stockland in the Forest Reach Project fully satisfy Stockland’s 
obligations to make monetary contributions under Consent to DA 
2020/673 and Consent to DA 2023/19, 
 
provided that there is no requirement in such a voluntary planning 
agreement for Stockland to provide security, and no restriction on 
Stockland’s right to assign or sell its freehold interest in the Forest Reach 
Project. 
 
5.18. 
If, prior to completion of the divestiture of the Divestiture Business, Stockland 
dedicates or transfers the title comprising the C2 Land to the Council in 
accordance with clauses 5.16 and 5.17 and the ownership of the C2 Land vests 
in the Council, the C2 Land is excluded from the definition of the Divestiture 
Business on and from the date the C2 Land vests in the Council. 
 
6. 
Process for approving a proposed purchaser 
 
Potential purchasers 
 
6.1. 
Stockland must provide the ACCC and Approved Independent Auditor with: 
 
(a) 
the identity of any person who expresses an interest in acquiring the 
Divestiture Business; 
 
(b) 
the status of negotiations with each person; and 
 
(c) 
a copy of each person’s offer to acquire the Divestiture Business, where 
relevant; 
 
at the following times: 
 
(d) 
as soon as possible following the Commencement Date for those persons 
who express interest before the Commencement Date; 
 
(e) 
after the Commencement Date, within 10 Business Days of each person 
expressing the interest and/or providing an offer; 
 
regardless of whether the person subsequently withdraws or is declined. 
 
Provision of a notice for a Proposed Purchaser 
 
6.2. 
To seek ACCC approval for a Proposed Purchaser, Stockland or the Approved 
Divestiture Agent must provide the ACCC with a notice in the form prescribed in 
Schedule 2 to this Undertaking (Proposed Purchaser Notice), including a draft 
sale and purchase agreement, a draft transitional technical assistance agreement 
(where required by the Proposed Purchaser), and a draft transitional supply 
agreement (where required by the Proposed Purchaser). 
 
6.3. 
The Proposed Purchaser Notice must be provided to the ACCC at least 40 
Business Days prior to the end of the Initial Sale Period. 
 
Approval of a Proposed Purchaser after the Commencement Date 
 
6.4. 
The ACCC may, in its discretion, approve or reject in writing the Proposed 
Purchaser identified in the Proposed Purchaser Notice. In exercising this 
discretion, the ACCC will consider, without limitation: 


8 
 
(a) the draft sale and purchase agreement attached to the Proposed Purchaser 
Notice; 
 
(b) any draft transitional technical assistance agreement attached to the 
Proposed Purchaser Notice, in accordance with the criteria in clauses 5.10 
and 5.11; and 
 
(c) 
any draft transitional supply agreement attached to the Proposed Purchaser 
Notice, in accordance with the criteria in clauses 5.13 and 5.14. 
 
6.5. 
Without limiting the ACCC’s discretion, in making the decision pursuant to clause 
6.4, the factors to which the ACCC may have regard include whether the: 
 
(a) draft sale and purchase agreement is consistent with this Undertaking; 
 
(b) Proposed Purchaser will complete the transaction as contemplated by the 
draft sale and purchase agreement; 
 
(c) 
Proposed Purchaser is independent of Stockland; 
 
(d) Proposed Purchaser is of good financial standing; 
 
(e) Proposed Purchaser has a history of competition law compliance; 
 
(f) 
Proposed Purchaser has an intention to maintain and operate the 
Divestiture Business as a going concern; 
 
(g) Proposed Purchaser is able to conduct the Divestiture Business effectively; 
and 
 
(h) divestiture of the Divestiture Business to the Proposed Purchaser will 
address any competition concerns of the ACCC, including in relation to the 
likely long-term viability and competitiveness of the Divestiture Business 
under the ownership of the Proposed Purchaser. 
 
6.6. 
The ACCC may revoke an Approved Purchaser’s status as the Approved 
Purchaser if the ACCC becomes aware that any information provided to it was 
incorrect, inaccurate or misleading. 


9 
 
7. 
Divestiture Business Protection 
 
Protection of the Divestiture Business 
 
7.1. 
From the Commencement Date, Stockland must not sell or transfer its interest, or 
any assets comprising part of, or used in, the Divestiture Business (other than the 
sale of goods and services in the ordinary course of business) or make any 
Material Change, except: 
 
(a) 
in accordance with this Undertaking or (subject to the other terms of this 
Undertaking) as necessary to allow completion of the Proposed Acquisition; 
and 
 
(b) in electing not to enter into any new voluntary planning agreements with 
State or local government authorities that may create obligations to seek 
consent to the divestiture of the Divestiture Business. 
 
Stockland’s obligations in relation to the Divestiture Business prior to completion 
of divestiture 
 
7.2. 
Without limiting this clause 7, Stockland must, from the Commencement Date 
until completion of the divestiture of the Divestiture Business, take all steps 
available to it to: 
 
(a) ensure that the Divestiture Business is managed and operated in the 
ordinary course of business, as a fully operational, competitive going 
concern and in such a way that preserves the economic viability, 
marketability, competitiveness and goodwill of the Divestiture Business at 
the Commencement Date; 
 
(b) continue to provide access to working capital and sources of credit for the 
Divestiture Business in a manner which is consistent with the financing of 
the Divestiture Business before the Commencement Date; 
 
(c) 
continue to provide administrative and technical support for the Divestiture 
Business in a manner which is consistent with the operation of the 
Divestiture Business before the Commencement Date and in accordance 
with any plans established before the Commencement Date; 
 
(d) continue existing Agreements relating to the Divestiture Business with 
customers, suppliers and/or other third parties that are in place at the 
Commencement Date; 
 
(e) renew or replace upon expiry Material Contracts for the provision of goods 
or services to the Divestiture Business on commercial terms favourable to 
the Divestiture Business; 
 
(f) 
maintain the supply of those goods and services that are part of the 
Divestiture Business to customers in a manner consistent with the supply of 
those goods and services as at the Commencement Date; 
 
(g) maintain the standard of manufacture, distribution, promotion and sale of 
those products which form part of the Divestiture Business as at the 
Commencement Date; 


10 
 
(h) promote and market the products that form part of the Divestiture Business 
in accordance with any plans established before the Commencement Date; 
and 
 
(i) 
carry out such other actions or plans that the Approved Independent 
Manager considers to be necessary or convenient to maintain the 
Divestiture Business as an effectively competitive going concern. 
 
Personnel of Stockland 
 
7.3. 
From the Commencement Date until completion of the divestiture of the 
Divestiture Business, Stockland must: 
 
(a) 
in consultation with the Approved Independent Manager (following their 
appointment in accordance with this Undertaking), replace any: 
 
(i) 
Transferred Personnel; or 
 
(ii) 
if the Transferred Personnel have not yet been identified, any 
personnel necessary for the operation of the Divestiture Business; 
 
who leave or will leave the Divestiture Business before divestiture; 
 
(b) 
not terminate or vary the terms of employment or engagement (or agree to 
do any of those things) of any of the: 
 
(i) 
Transferred Personnel; or 
 
(ii) 
if the Transferred Personnel have not yet been identified, any 
personnel necessary for the operation of the Divestiture Business; 
and 
 
(c) 
not directly or indirectly procure, promote or encourage the redeployment of 
personnel necessary for the operation of the Divestiture Business as at the 
Commencement Date to any other business operated by Stockland. 
 
7.4. 
As soon as practicable after the Commencement Date, Stockland must direct its 
personnel, including directors, contractors, managers, officers, employees and 
agents not to do anything inconsistent with Stockland’s obligations under this 
Undertaking. 
 
Stockland’s ongoing obligations in relation to the Divestiture Business 
 
7.5. 
To the extent Stockland has obligations in relation to the provision of transitional 
technical assistance or continued supply pursuant to clauses 5.10 to 5.15 of this 
Undertaking in relation to the Divestiture Business, Stockland must not sell, 
assign, transfer, and/or licence directly or indirectly any of the assets necessary 
to fulfil such obligations without the prior written consent of the ACCC. 
 
Confidential Information 
 
7.6. 
Subject to clause 7.7, Stockland must not, at any time from the Commencement 
Date, use or disclose any confidential information about the Divestiture Business 
gained through: 


11 
 
(a) 
ownership and/or management of the Divestiture Business; or 
 
(b) 
fulfilling any obligations pursuant to this Undertaking. 
 
7.7. 
Clause 7.6 does not apply to information that Stockland requires to: 
 
(a) comply with legal and regulatory obligations including obligations relating to 
taxation, accounting, financial reporting or stock exchange disclosure 
requirements; or 
 
(b) carry out its obligations pursuant to this Undertaking; 
 
provided such information is only used for that purpose and is only disclosed to 
those officers, employees, contractors and advisers of Stockland who need to 
know the information to carry out the permitted purpose. 
 
8. 
Independent Management of the Divestiture Business 
 
Obligation to appoint an Approved Independent Manager 
 
8.1. 
Stockland must appoint and maintain an Approved Independent Manager to 
manage the Divestiture Business, from the Control Date until the completion of 
the divestiture of the Divestiture Business in accordance with this Undertaking. 
 
Process for approving a Proposed Independent Manager 
 
8.2. 
At least 15 Business Days before the Control Date, Stockland must provide the 
ACCC with a notice for a Proposed Independent Manager in the form prescribed 
in Schedule 3 to this Undertaking (Proposed Independent Manager Notice), 
including a draft terms of appointment and a draft separation and management 
plan. 
 
8.3. 
If clauses 8.12, 8.13 or 8.14 apply, Stockland must provide the ACCC with a 
Proposed Independent Manager Notice within five Business Days after the 
relevant event occurs. 
 
8.4. 
The ACCC shall have the discretion to approve or reject in writing the Proposed 
Independent Manager identified in the Proposed Independent Manager Notice. 
 
8.5. 
Without limiting the ACCC’s discretion, in deciding whether to approve a 
Proposed Independent Manager, the factors to which the ACCC may have regard 
include whether the: 
 
(a) person named in the Proposed Independent Manager Notice or identified by 
the ACCC has the qualifications and experience necessary to manage the 
Divestiture Business; 
 
(b) person named in the Proposed Independent Manager Notice or identified by 
the ACCC is sufficiently independent of Stockland; 
 
(c) 
draft terms of appointment and the draft separation and management plan 
are consistent with this Undertaking; and 
 
(d) draft terms of appointment and the draft separation and management plan 
are otherwise acceptable to the ACCC. 


12 
 
Appointment of the Approved Independent Manager 
 
8.6. 
After receiving a written notice from the ACCC of its approval of the Proposed 
Independent Manager, the draft terms of appointment and draft separation and 
management plan, Stockland must by the Control Date: 
 
(a) appoint the person approved by the ACCC as the Approved Independent 
Manager on the Approved Terms of Appointment; and 
 
(b) forward to the ACCC a copy of the executed Approved Terms of 
Appointment. 
 
Failure to appoint 
 
8.7. 
If: 
 
(a) the Approved Independent Manager has not been appointed by the Control 
Date; 
 
(b) the Approved Independent Manager has not been appointed within 15 
Business Days after the Approved Independent Manager resigns or 
otherwise ceases to act as the Approved Independent Manager pursuant to 
clause 8.12, 8.13 or 8.14; or 
 
(c) 
the ACCC has not received a Proposed Independent Manager Notice 
pursuant to clause 8.2 or 8.3; 
 
then clause 8.8 applies. 
 
8.8. 
If clause 8.7 applies, the ACCC may, in its discretion: 
 
(a) identify and approve a person as the Approved Independent Manager, 
including approving the draft terms of appointment of the Approved 
Independent Manager and the draft separation and management plan; 
and/or 
 
(b) direct Stockland to appoint a person who the ACCC has deemed is an 
Approved Independent Manager. 
 
Obligations and powers of the Approved Independent Manager 
 
8.9. 
Stockland must procure that any proposed terms of appointment for the Approved 
Independent Manager include obligations on the Approved Independent 
Manager to: 
 
(a) maintain his or her independence from Stockland, apart from appointment to 
the role of Approved Independent Manager, including not forming any 
relationship of the types described in paragraph 2.2(c) of Schedule 3 to this 
Undertaking with Stockland for the period of his or her appointment; 
 
(b) act in the best interests of the Divestiture Business at all times including 
ensuring that the Divestiture Business is managed and operated in the 
ordinary course of business as a fully operational, competitive going concern 
and in such a way that preserves the economic viability, marketability, 
competitiveness and goodwill of the Divestiture Business at the Control 
Date; 


13 
 
(c) 
not use any confidential information gained through the management of the 
Divestiture Business other than for performing his or her functions as 
Approved Independent Manager; 
 
(d) make only those Material Changes to the Divestiture Business which the 
ACCC does not object to; 
 
(e) operate and manage the Divestiture Business to the maximum extent 
practicable, in a manner which is financially and operationally separate from 
Stockland; 
 
(f) 
co-operate with the requests of any Approved Divestiture Agent or Approved 
Independent Auditor appointed pursuant to this Undertaking; 
 
(g) provide the following reports directly to the ACCC: 
 
(i) 
a monthly written report regarding the implementation of and any 
suggested changes to the Approved Separation and Management 
Plan; and 
 
(ii) 
an immediate report of any issues that arise in relation to the 
implementation of the Approved Separation and Management Plan or 
Stockland’s compliance with this Undertaking; and 
 
(h) follow any direction given to him or her by the ACCC in relation to the 
performance of his or her functions as Approved Independent Manager 
pursuant to this Undertaking. 
 
8.10. 
Stockland must procure that any proposed terms of appointment for the Approved 
Independent Manager provide the Approved Independent Manager with the sole 
authority to: 
 
(a) manage and operate the Divestiture Business according to the Approved 
Separation and Management Plan until the completion of the divestiture of 
the Divestiture Business; 
 
(b) provide any information requested by Stockland pursuant to the protocol in 
the Approved Separation and Management Plan; 
 
(c) 
decide whether or not to provide access and the manner of such access to 
competitively sensitive information relating to the Divestiture Business 
requested by Stockland which is not covered by the protocol in the 
Approved Separation and Management Plan; 
 
(d) renew or replace upon expiry Material Contracts and enter into new 
contracts for the provision of goods or services to the Divestiture Business 
on commercial terms favourable to the Divestiture Business; 
 
(e) engage, redeploy or make redundant personnel employed in the Divestiture 
Business as the Approved Independent Manager determines necessary; 
and 
 
(f) 
engage any external expertise, assistance or advice required by the 
Approved Independent Manager to perform his or her functions as the 
Approved Independent Manager. 


14 
 
Stockland’s obligations in relation to the Approved Independent Manager 
 
8.11. 
Without limiting its obligations in this Undertaking, Stockland must: 
 
(a) 
comply with and enforce the Approved Terms of Appointment of the 
Approved Independent Manager; 
 
(b) 
maintain and fund the Approved Independent Manager to carry out his or 
her functions, including: 
 
(i) 
indemnifying the Approved Independent Manager for any expenses, 
loss, claim or damage arising directly or indirectly from the 
performance by the Approved Independent Manager of his or her 
functions as the Approved Independent Manager except where such 
expenses, loss, claim or damage arises out of the gross negligence, 
fraud, misconduct or breach of duty by the Approved Independent 
Manager; 
 
(ii) 
ensuring that the Approved Independent Manager is fully able to 
acquire and pay for sufficient and timely delivery of all goods and 
services (including from third parties) which the Approved 
Independent Manager considers are required by the Divestiture 
Business; and 
 
(iii) 
providing and paying for any external expertise, assistance or advice 
required by the Approved Independent Manager to perform his or 
her functions as the Approved Independent Manager; and 
 
(c) 
not interfere with the authority of, or otherwise hinder, the Approved 
Independent Manager’s ability to carry out his or her obligations as the 
Approved Independent Manager, including: 
 
(i) 
accepting (and directing its directors, contractors, managers, 
officers, employees and agents to accept) direction from the 
Approved Independent Manager as to the control, management, 
financing and operations of the Divestiture Business, and for the 
Divestiture Business to meet all legal, corporate, financial, 
accounting, taxation, audit and regulatory obligations; 
 
(ii) 
providing access to the facilities, sites or operations of the 
Divestiture Business required by the Approved Independent 
Manager; 
 
(iii) 
providing to the Approved Independent Manager any information or 
documents that they consider necessary for managing and operating 
the Divestiture Business or for reporting to or otherwise advising the 
ACCC; 
 
(iv) 
not requesting information or reports regarding the Divestiture 
Business from the personnel of the Divestiture Business except 
through the Approved Independent Manager; and 
 
(v) 
not appointing the Approved Independent Manager, or have any 
Agreements with the Approved Independent Manager, to utilise the 
Approved Independent Manager’s services for anything other than 
compliance with this Undertaking until at least 12 months after the 
Approved Independent Manager ceases to act in the role of the 
Approved Independent Manager. 


15 
 
Resignation, revocation or termination of the Approved Independent Manager 
 
8.12. 
Stockland must immediately notify the ACCC in the event that the Approved 
Independent Manager resigns or otherwise stops acting as the Approved 
Independent Manager before the completion of the divestiture of the Divestiture 
Business. 
 
8.13. 
The ACCC may revoke an Approved Independent Manager’s status as the 
Approved Independent Manager if the ACCC becomes aware that any 
information provided to it was incorrect, inaccurate or misleading. 
 
8.14. 
The ACCC may approve any proposal by, or alternatively may direct, Stockland 
to terminate the appointment of the Approved Independent Manager if in the 
ACCC's view the Approved Independent Manager acts inconsistently with the 
provisions of this Undertaking or the Approved Terms of Appointment. 
 
9. 
Independent Audit 
 
Obligation to appoint an Approved Independent Auditor 
 
9.1. 
Stockland must appoint and maintain an Approved Independent Auditor to audit 
and report upon Stockland’s compliance with this Undertaking. 
 
Process for approving a Proposed Independent Auditor 
 
9.2. 
Within 10 Business Days of the Commencement Date, Stockland must provide 
the ACCC with a notice for a Proposed Independent Auditor in the form 
prescribed in Schedule 3 to this Undertaking (Proposed Independent Auditor 
Notice), including draft terms of appointment and a draft audit plan. 
 
9.3. 
The Approved Independent Auditor is to be appointed for a term of two years. 
Within 15 Business Days of the end of the Approved Independent Auditor’s term, 
Stockland must provide the ACCC with a new Proposed Independent Auditor 
Notice. A person who is, or who has been, the Independent Auditor is eligible for 
reappointment as the Independent Auditor. 
 
9.4. 
If clauses 9.17, 9.18 or 9.19 apply, Stockland must provide the ACCC with a 
Proposed Independent Auditor Notice within five Business Days after the 
relevant event occurs. 
 
9.5. 
The ACCC shall have the discretion to approve or reject in writing the Proposed 
Independent Auditor identified in the Proposed Independent Auditor Notice. 
 
9.6. 
Without limiting the ACCC’s discretion, in deciding whether to approve a 
Proposed Independent Auditor, the factors to which the ACCC may have regard 
include whether the: 
 
(a) 
person named in the Proposed Independent Auditor Notice or identified 
by the ACCC has the qualifications and experience necessary to carry 
out the functions of the Approved Independent Auditor; 
(b) 
person named in the Proposed Independent Auditor Notice or identified 
by the ACCC is sufficiently independent of Stockland; 
(c) 
draft terms of appointment and the draft audit plan are consistent with 
this Undertaking; and 
(d) 
draft terms of appointment and the draft audit plan are otherwise 
acceptable to the ACCC. 


16 
 
Appointment of the Approved Independent Auditor 
 
9.7. 
After receiving a written notice from the ACCC of its approval of a Proposed 
Independent Auditor, the draft terms of appointment and draft audit plan, 
Stockland must within one Business Day: 
 
(a) appoint the person approved by the ACCC as the Approved Independent 
Auditor on the Approved Terms of Appointment; and 
 
(b) forward to the ACCC a copy of the executed Approved Terms of 
Appointment. 
 
Failure to appoint 
 
9.8. 
If: 
 
(a) the Approved Independent Auditor has not been appointed within one 
Business Day under clause 9.7; 
 
(b) the Approved Independent Auditor has not been appointed within 15 
Business Days after the Approved Independent Auditor resigns or otherwise 
ceases to act as the Approved Independent Auditor pursuant to clause 9.17, 
9.18 or 9.19; or 
 
(c) 
the ACCC has not received a Proposed Independent Auditor Notice 
pursuant to clause 9.2 and 9.4; 
 
then clause 9.9 applies. 
 
9.9. 
If clause 9.8 applies, the ACCC at its absolute discretion may: 
 
(a) identify and approve a person as the Approved Independent Auditor, 
including approving the draft terms of appointment and draft audit plan; 
and/or 
 
(b) direct Stockland to appoint a person who the ACCC has deemed is an 
Approved Independent Auditor. 
 
Obligations and powers of the Approved Independent Auditor 
 
9.10. 
Stockland must procure that any proposed terms of appointment for the Approved 
Independent Auditor include obligations on the Approved Independent Auditor to: 
 
(a) maintain his or her independence from Stockland, apart from appointment to 
the role of Approved Independent Auditor, including not forming any 
relationship of the types described in paragraph 2.2(c) of Schedule 3 to this 
Undertaking with Stockland for the period of his or her appointment; 
 
(b) conduct compliance auditing according to the Approved Audit Plan; 
 
(c) 
where requested by the ACCC, assess the suitability of any Proposed 
Purchaser or potential purchaser of the Divestiture Business against the 
factors (as relevant) in clause 6.5; 
 
(d) provide the following reports directly to the ACCC: 
 
(i) 
a scheduled written Audit Report as described in clause 9.12; 


17 
 
(ii) 
an immediate report of any issues that arise in relation to the 
performance of his or her functions as Approved Independent 
Auditor or in relation to compliance with this Undertaking by any 
person named in this Undertaking; and 
 
(iii) 
where requested by the ACCC, a report on the suitability of any 
Proposed Purchaser or potential purchaser of the Divestiture 
Business following an assessment under clause 9.10(c); and 
 
(e) follow any direction given to him or her by the ACCC in relation to the 
performance of his or her functions as Approved Independent Auditor under 
this Undertaking. 
 
9.11. 
Stockland must procure that any proposed terms of appointment for the Approved 
Independent Auditor provide the Approved Independent Auditor with the authority 
to: 
 
(a) access the facilities, sites or operations of the Divestiture Business and 
Stockland’s other businesses as required by the Approved Independent 
Auditor; 
 
(b) access any information or documents that the Approved Independent 
Auditor considers necessary for carrying out his or her functions as the 
Approved Independent Auditor or for reporting to or otherwise advising the 
ACCC; and 
 
(c) 
engage any external expertise, assistance or advice required by the 
Approved Independent Auditor to perform his or her functions as the 
Approved Independent Auditor. 
 
Compliance Audit 
 
9.12. 
The Approved Independent Auditor must conduct an audit and prepare a detailed 
report (Audit Report) that includes: 
 
(a) the Approved Independent Auditor’s procedures in conducting the audit, or 
any change to audit procedures and processes since the previous Audit 
Report; 
 
(b) a full audit of Stockland’s compliance with this Undertaking; 
 
(c) 
identification of any areas of uncertainty or ambiguity in the Approved 
Independent Auditor’s interpretation of any obligations contained in this 
Undertaking; 
 
(d) all of the reasons for the conclusions reached in the Audit Report; 
 
(e) any qualifications made by the Approved Independent Auditor in forming his 
or her views; 
 
(f) 
any recommendations by the Approved Independent Auditor to improve: 
 
(i) 
the Approved Audit Plan; 
 
(ii) 
the integrity of the auditing process; 
 
(iii) 
Stockland’s processes or reporting systems in relation to compliance 
with this Undertaking; and 


18 
 
(iv) 
Stockland’s compliance with this Undertaking; and 
 
(g) the implementation and outcome of any prior recommendations by the 
Approved Independent Auditor. 
 
9.13. 
The Approved Independent Auditor is to provide an Audit Report to the ACCC 
and Stockland at the following times: 
 
(a) within 20 Business Days after the appointment of the Approved Independent 
Auditor, at which time the Audit Report is to include the results of the initial 
audit and any recommended changes to the Approved Audit Plan, including 
the Approved Independent Auditor’s proposed procedures and processes 
for conducting the audit (Establishment Audit); 
 
(b) every month from the date of the Establishment Audit until one month after 
the divestiture of the Divestiture Business is completed; and 
 
(c) 
every three months after the date of provision of the last Audit Report 
pursuant to clause 9.13(b), until the ACCC confirms in writing to Stockland 
that it is satisfied that Stockland has fulfilled its obligations pursuant to this 
Undertaking. 
 
9.14. 
Stockland must implement any recommendations made by the Approved 
Independent Auditor in Audit Reports, and notify the ACCC of the implementation 
of the recommendations, within 10 Business Days after receiving the Audit 
Report or such other period as agreed in writing with the ACCC. 
 
9.15. 
Stockland must comply with any direction of the ACCC in relation to matters 
arising from the Audit Report within 10 Business Days after being so directed (or 
such other period as agreed in writing with the ACCC). 
 
Stockland’s obligations in relation to the Approved Independent Auditor 
 
9.16. 
Without limiting its obligations in this Undertaking, Stockland must: 
 
(a) 
comply with and enforce the Approved Terms of Appointment for the 
Approved Independent Auditor; 
 
(b) 
maintain and fund the Approved Independent Auditor to carry out his or her 
functions including: 
 
(i) 
indemnifying the Approved Independent Auditor for any expenses, 
loss, claim or damage arising directly or indirectly from the 
performance by the Approved Independent Auditor of his or her 
functions as the Approved Independent Auditor except where such 
expenses, loss, claim or damage arises out of the gross negligence, 
fraud, misconduct or breach of duty by the Approved Independent 
Auditor; 
 
(ii) 
providing and paying for any external expertise, assistance or advice 
required by the Approved Independent Auditor to perform his or her 
functions as the Approved Independent Auditor; and 
 
(c) 
not interfere with, or otherwise hinder, the Approved Independent Auditor’s 
ability to carry out his or her functions as the Approved Independent Auditor, 
including: 


19 
 
(i) 
directing Stockland personnel, including directors, contractors, 
managers, officers, employees and agents, to act in accordance with 
this clause 9; 
 
(ii) 
providing access to the facilities, sites or operations of the 
Divestiture Business and Stockland’s other businesses as required 
by the Approved Independent Auditor; 
 
(iii) 
providing to the Approved Independent Auditor any information or 
documents that they consider necessary for carrying out his or her 
functions as the Approved Independent Auditor or for reporting to or 
otherwise advising the ACCC; 
 
(iv) 
not requesting any information relating to the compliance audit from 
the Approved Independent Auditor without such a request having 
been approved by the ACCC; and 
 
(v) 
not appointing the Approved Independent Auditor, or have any 
Agreements with the Approved Independent Auditor, to utilise the 
Approved Independent Auditor’s services for anything other than 
compliance with this Undertaking until at least 12 months after the 
Approved Independent Auditor ceases to act in the role of the 
Approved Independent Auditor. 
 
Resignation, revocation or termination of the Approved Independent Auditor 
 
9.17. 
Stockland must immediately notify the ACCC in the event that the Approved 
Independent Auditor resigns or otherwise stops acting as the Approved 
Independent Auditor. 
 
9.18. 
The ACCC may revoke an Approved Independent Auditor’s status as the 
Approved Independent Auditor if the ACCC becomes aware that any information 
provided to it in connection with the appointment of the Approved Independent 
Auditor was incorrect, inaccurate or misleading. 
 
9.19. 
The ACCC may approve, pursuant to clause 9.5, any proposal by, or alternatively 
may direct, Stockland to terminate the appointment of the Approved Independent 
Auditor if in the ACCC's view the Approved Independent Auditor acts 
inconsistently with the provisions of this Undertaking and/or the Approved Terms 
of Appointment or the Approved Independent Auditor fails to perform their role to 
an adequate standard. 
 
10. 
Failure to divest the Divestiture Business within the Initial 
Sale Period 
 
Divestiture of the Unsold Business 
 
10.1. 
In the event that the divestiture of the Divestiture Business to an Approved 
Purchaser is not completed by the end of the Initial Sale Period, the Divestiture 
Business becomes an unsold business (Unsold Business) and the provisions of 
this clause 10 apply. 
 
Obligation to appoint an Approved Divestiture Agent 
 
10.2. 
From the end of the Initial Sale Period, Stockland must appoint and maintain an 
Approved Divestiture Agent to effect the divestiture of the Unsold Business. 


20 
 
Process for approving a Proposed Divestiture Agent 
 
10.3. 
At least 15 Business Days prior to the end of the Initial Sale Period, if the 
divestiture of the Divestiture Business has not been completed, Stockland must 
provide the ACCC with a notice for a Proposed Divestiture Agent in the form of 
Schedule 3 to this Undertaking (Proposed Divestiture Agent Notice) including 
draft terms of appointment, a draft business sale agreement, and draft marketing 
and sale plan. 
 
10.4. 
If clauses 10.14, 10.15 or 10.16 apply, Stockland must provide the ACCC with a 
Proposed Divestiture Agent Notice within five Business Days after the relevant 
event occurs. 
 
10.5. 
The ACCC shall have the discretion to approve or reject in writing the Proposed 
Divestiture Agent. 
 
10.6. 
Without limiting the ACCC’s discretion, in deciding whether to approve a 
Proposed Divestiture Agent, the factors to which the ACCC may have regard 
include whether the: 
 
(a) 
person named in Proposed Divestiture Agent Notice or identified by the 
ACCC has the qualifications and experience necessary to carry out the 
functions of the Approved Divestiture Agent; 
 
(b) 
person named in the Proposed Divestiture Agent Notice or identified by 
the ACCC is sufficiently independent of Stockland; 
 
(c) 
draft terms of appointment, draft business sale agreement and draft 
marketing and sale plan are consistent with this Undertaking; and 
 
(d) 
draft terms of appointment, draft business sale agreement and draft 
marketing and sale plan are otherwise acceptable to the ACCC. 
 
Appointment of the Approved Divestiture Agent 
 
10.7. 
After receiving written notice from the ACCC of its approval of the Proposed 
Divestiture Agent, the draft terms of appointment, draft business sale agreement 
and draft marketing and sale plan, Stockland must within two Business Days: 
 
(a) appoint the person approved by the ACCC as the Approved Divestiture 
Agent on the Approved Terms of Appointment; and 
 
(b) forward to the ACCC a copy of the executed Approved Terms of 
Appointment. 
 
Failure to appoint 
 
10.8. 
If: 
 
(a) the Approved Divestiture Agent has not been appointed within 10 Business 
Days after the Divestiture Business becomes an Unsold Business; 
 
(b) the Approved Divestiture Agent has not been appointed within 15 Business 
Days after the Approved Divestiture Agent resigns or otherwise ceases to 
act pursuant to clauses 10.14, 10.15 or 10.16; or 
 
(c) 
the ACCC has not received a Proposed Divestiture Agent Notice pursuant to 
clause 10.3 and 10.4; 


21 
 
then clause 10.9 applies. 
 
10.9. 
If clause 10.8 applies, the ACCC may, at its absolute discretion: 
 
(a) identify and approve a person as the Approved Divestiture Agent, including 
approving the draft terms of appointment of the Approved Divestiture Agent, 
draft business sale agreement and draft marketing and sale plan; and/or 
 
(b) direct Stockland to appoint a person who the ACCC has deemed is an 
Approved Divestiture Agent. 
 
Obligations and powers of the Approved Divestiture Agent 
 
10.10. Stockland must procure that any proposed terms of appointment for the Approved 
Divestiture Agent include obligations on the Approved Divestiture Agent to: 
 
(a) divest the Unsold Business only to an Approved Purchaser, at no minimum 
price; 
 
(b) maintain his or her independence from Stockland, apart from appointment to 
the role of Approved Divestiture Agent, including not form any relationship of 
the types described in paragraph 2.2(c) of Schedule 3 to this Undertaking 
with Stockland for the period of his or her appointment; 
 
(c) 
not use any confidential information gained through the divestiture of the 
Unsold Business other than for performing his or her functions as Approved 
Divestiture Agent; 
 
(d) follow the Approved Marketing and Sale Plan; 
 
(e) use his or her best endeavours to enter into a binding agreement for the 
divestiture of the Unsold Business as quickly as possible using the 
Approved Business Sale Agreement; 
 
(f) 
co-operate with the requests of any Approved Independent Manager or 
Approved Independent Auditor appointed pursuant to this Undertaking; 
 
(g) every 30 Business Days following appointment of the Approved Divestiture 
Agent, provide written reports directly to the ACCC which include: 
 
(i) 
information regarding the implementation of the Approved Business 
Sale Agreement and the Approved Marketing and Sale Plan 
including any previous changes approved by the ACCC; 
 
(ii) 
information regarding any suggested changes to any Approved 
Marketing and Sale Plan including any previous changes approved 
by the ACCC; 
 
(iii) 
an account and explanation of all disbursements, fees and charges 
incurred by the Approved Divestiture Agent in undertaking his or her 
duties by month and to the date of the report; 
 
(iv) 
a schedule of agreed fees of the Approved Divestiture Agent 
(including the fees of any adviser appointed under clause 10.11(d)); 
 
(v) 
the efforts made to sell the Unsold Business; 
 
(vi) 
the identity of any advisers engaged; 


22 
 
(vii) 
the identity of any persons expressing interest in the Unsold 
Business; and 
 
(viii) any other information required by the ACCC; 
 
(h) within 30 Business Days after the completion of the divestiture of the Unsold 
Business, provide a written report directly to the ACCC which includes a 
final accounting of: 
 
(i) 
any moneys derived from the divestiture of the Unsold Business; 
 
(ii) 
all disbursements, fees and charges incurred by the Approved 
Divestiture Agent in fulfilling his or her duties; and 
 
(iii) 
all agreed fees of the Approved Divestiture Agent (including the fees 
of any adviser appointed under clause 10.11(d); 
 
(i) 
immediately inform the ACCC of: 
 
(i) 
any issues that arise in relation to the implementation of the 
Approved Business Sale Agreement and any Approved Marketing 
and Sale Plan; 
 
(ii) 
non-compliance with this Undertaking by any person named in this 
Undertaking; 
 
(iii) 
any offers for the Unsold Business; 
 
(j) 
accept any offer for the Unsold Business upon instruction from Stockland 
given in accordance with clause 10.13(d); and 
 
(k) 
follow any direction given to him or her by the ACCC in relation to the 
performance of his or her functions as Approved Divestiture Agent pursuant 
to this Undertaking. 
 
10.11. Stockland must procure that any proposed terms of appointment for the Approved 
Divestiture Agent contain an irrevocable grant of power of attorney conferring all 
necessary power and authority on the Approved Divestiture Agent to: 
 
(a) negotiate with purchasers to divest the Unsold Business on terms 
considered by the Approved Divestiture Agent in his or her sole discretion to 
be consistent with this Undertaking and the Approved Marketing and Sale 
Plan; 
 
(b) execute any agreements with the Approved Purchaser required pursuant to 
clause 6.4; 
 
(c) 
upon instruction pursuant to clause 10.13(d), complete the divestiture of the 
Unsold Business to the Approved Purchaser in accordance with the 
Approved Business Sale Agreement; and 
 
(d) engage any external expertise, assistance or advice required by the 
Approved Divestiture Agent to perform his or her functions as the Approved 
Divestiture Agent. 
 
10.12. Any irrevocable power of attorney granted pursuant to clause 10.11 will end upon 
resignation or termination of the Approved Divestiture Agent in accordance with 


23 
 
clauses 10.14, 10.15 and 10.16, or in the event that the Unsold Business is 
divested in accordance with this Undertaking. 
 
Stockland’s obligations in relation to the Approved Divestiture Agent 
 
10.13. Without limiting its obligations in this Undertaking, Stockland must from the end of 
the Initial Sale Period: 
 
(a) comply with and enforce the Approved Terms of Appointment for the 
Approved Divestiture Agent; 
 
(b) maintain and fund the Approved Divestiture Agent to carry out his or her 
functions; including: 
 
(i) 
indemnifying the Approved Divestiture Agent for any expenses, loss, 
claim or damage arising directly or indirectly from the performance 
by the Approved Divestiture Agent of his or her functions as the 
Approved Divestiture Agent except where such expenses, loss, 
claim or damage arises out of the gross negligence, fraud, 
misconduct or breach of duty by the Approved Divestiture Agent; 
 
(ii) 
providing and paying for any external expertise, assistance or advice 
required by the Approved Divestiture Agent to perform his or her 
functions as the Approved Divestiture Agent; 
 
(iii) 
paying such fees as are agreed between the Approved Divestiture 
Agent and Stockland (but not fees contingent on the price to be 
obtained for the Unsold Business); and 
 
(iv) 
if an agreement as to fees cannot be reached between the Approved 
Divestiture Agent and Stockland within 15 Business Days after the 
end of the Initial Sale Period, Stockland agrees to pay such fees as 
are directed by the ACCC; 
 
(c) 
not interfere with, or otherwise hinder, the Approved Divestiture Agent’s 
ability to carry out his or her functions as the Approved Divestiture Agent, 
including: 
 
(i) 
directing its personnel, including directors, contractors, managers, 
officers, employees and agents, to act in accordance with this 
clause 10; 
 
(ii) 
providing access to the facilities, sites or operations of the Unsold 
Business as required by the Approved Divestiture Agent; and 
 
(iii) 
providing to the Approved Divestiture Agent any information, 
documents or other assistance that they consider necessary for 
carrying out his or her functions as the Approved Divestiture Agent 
or for reporting to or otherwise advising the ACCC; 
 
(d) within three Business Days after receiving notice from the ACCC pursuant to 
clause 6.4, Stockland must instruct the Approved Divestiture Agent to 
complete the divestiture of the Unsold Business to the Approved Purchaser 
in accordance with the documents approved by the ACCC pursuant to 
clause 6.4; and 
 
(e) other than in accordance with clause 10.13(d) of this Undertaking, not 
instruct the Approved Divestiture Agent to divest the Unsold Business. 


24 
 
Resignation, revocation or termination of the Approved Divestiture Agent 
 
10.14. Stockland must immediately notify the ACCC in the event that an Approved 
Divestiture Agent resigns or otherwise stops acting as an Approved Divestiture 
Agent before the completion of the divestiture of the Unsold Business. 
 
10.15. The ACCC may revoke an Approved Divestiture Agent’s status as the Approved 
Divestiture Agent if the ACCC becomes aware that any information provided to it 
was incorrect, inaccurate or misleading. 
 
10.16. The ACCC may approve any proposal by, or alternatively may direct, Stockland 
to terminate an Approved Divestiture Agent if in the ACCC's view the Approved 
Divestiture Agent acts inconsistently with the provisions of this Undertaking or the 
Approved Terms of Appointment. 
 
 
11. 
Notification of key dates and ACCC requests for information 
 
 
11.1. 
Stockland must notify the ACCC and each Undertaking Appointment in writing of: 
 
(a) the anticipated date of the Control Date, at least five Business Days before 
that date; 
 
(b) the anticipated date of the completion of the divestiture of the Divestiture 
Business or Unsold Business (as applicable), at least five Business Days 
before that date; 
 
(c) 
the occurrence of the Control Date, within one Business Day of that date; 
and 
 
(d) the occurrence of the completion of the divestiture of the Divestiture 
Business or Unsold Business (as applicable), within one Business Day of 
that date. 
 
11.2. 
The ACCC may direct Stockland in respect of its compliance with this 
Undertaking to, and Stockland must: 
 
(a) furnish information to the ACCC in the time and in the form requested by the 
ACCC; 
 
(b) produce documents and materials to the ACCC within Stockland's custody, 
power or control in the time and in the form requested by the ACCC; and/or 
 
(c) 
attend the ACCC at a time and place appointed by the ACCC to answer any 
questions the ACCC (its Commissioners, its staff or its agents) may have. 
 
11.3. 
Any direction made by the ACCC under clause 11.2 will be notified to Stockland, 
in accordance with clause 17.2. 
 
11.4. 
In respect of Stockland's compliance with this Undertaking or an Undertaking 
Appointment’s compliance with its Approved Terms of Appointment, the ACCC 
may request any Undertaking Appointment to: 
 
(a) furnish information to the ACCC in the time and in the form requested by the 
ACCC; 


25 
 
(b) produce documents and materials to the ACCC within the Undertaking 
Appointment's custody, power or control in the time and in the form 
requested by the ACCC; and/or 
 
(c) 
attend the ACCC at a time and place appointed by the ACCC to answer any 
questions the ACCC (its Commissioners, its staff or its agents) may have. 
 
11.5. 
Stockland will use its best endeavours to ensure that an Undertaking 
Appointment complies with any request from the ACCC in accordance with 
clause 11.4. 
 
11.6. 
Information furnished, documents and material produced or information given in 
response to any request or direction from the ACCC under this clause 11 may be 
used by the ACCC for any purpose consistent with the exercise of its statutory 
duties. 
 
11.7. 
The ACCC may in its discretion: 
 
(a) advise any Undertaking Appointment of any request made by it under this 
clause 11; and/or 
 
(b) provide copies to any Undertaking Appointment of any information 
furnished, documents and material produced or information given to it under 
this clause 11. 
 
11.8. 
Nothing in this clause 11 requires the provision of information or documents in 
respect of which Stockland has a claim of legal professional or other privilege. 
 
 
12. 
Disclosure of this Undertaking 
 
12.1. 
Stockland and the ACCC agree that Schedule 5 will remain confidential until after 
the completion of the divestiture of the Divestiture Business or Unsold Business. 
 
12.2. 
Stockland acknowledges that the ACCC may provide each Undertaking 
Appointment with a copy of this Undertaking which includes unredacted versions 
of Confidential Schedule 5. 
 
12.3. 
Stockland acknowledges that the ACCC may, subject to clause 12.1: 
 
(a) make this Undertaking publicly available; 
 
(b) publish this Undertaking on its Public Section 87B Undertakings Register 
and Public Mergers Register; and 
 
(c) 
from time to time publicly refer to this Undertaking. 
 
12.4. 
Nothing in clause 12.1 or the confidential parts of this Undertaking referred to in 
clause 12.1 prevents the ACCC from disclosing such information as is: 
 
(a) required by law; 
 
(b) permitted by section 155AAA of the Act; 
 
(c) 
necessary for the purpose of enforcement action under section 87B of the 
Act; or 


26 
 
(d) necessary for the purpose of making such market inquiries as the ACCC 
thinks fit to assess the impact on competition arising in connection with this 
Undertaking. 
 
12.5. 
Nothing in clause 12.1 or the confidential parts of this Undertaking referred to in 
clause 12.1 prevents the ACCC from using the information contained in this 
Undertaking for any purpose consistent with its statutory functions and powers. 
 
 
13. 
Obligation to procure 
 
13.1. 
Where the performance of an obligation under this Undertaking requires a 
Related Body Corporate of Stockland to take or refrain from taking some action, 
Stockland will procure that Related Body Corporate to take or refrain from taking 
that action. 
 
 
14. 
No Derogation 
 
14.1. 
This Undertaking does not prevent the ACCC from taking enforcement action at 
any time whether during or after the period of this Undertaking in respect of any 
breach by Stockland of any term of this Undertaking. 
 
14.2. 
Nothing in this Undertaking is intended to restrict the right of the ACCC to take 
action under the Act for penalties or other remedies in the event that Stockland 
does not fully implement and/or perform its obligations under this Undertaking or 
in any other event where the ACCC decides to take action under the Act for 
penalties or other remedies. 
 
 
15. 
Change of Control 
 
15.1. 
In the event that a Change of Control is reasonably expected to occur, Stockland 
must: 
 
(a) notify the ACCC of this expectation as soon as practicable; and 
 
(b) only implement a Change of Control to another person or entity if that 
person or entity has given a section 87B undertaking to the ACCC that 
requires it to comply with the same obligations as are imposed on Stockland 
pursuant to this Undertaking, or on terms that are otherwise acceptable to 
the ACCC, unless the ACCC has notified Stockland in writing that a section 
87B undertaking under this clause is not required. 
 
16. 
Costs 
 
16.1. 
Stockland must pay all of its own costs incurred in relation to this Undertaking. 
 
 
17. 
Notices 
 
Giving Notices 
 
17.1. 
Any notice or communication to the ACCC pursuant to this Undertaking must be 
sent to: 


27 
 
Email address: 
mergers@accc.gov.au 
Attention: Executive General Manager 
Mergers, Exemptions & Digital Division 
 
With a copy sent to: 
mergersru@accc.gov.au 
Attention: Director, Remedies Unit 
Policy, Coordination & Remedies Branch 
Mergers, Exemptions & Digital Division 
 
17.2. 
Any notice or communication to Stockland pursuant to this Undertaking must be 
sent to: 
 
Name: 
Company Secretary 
 
Address: 
Level 25, 133 Castlereagh Street, Sydney 
Email Address: legal4@stockland.com.au 
Attention: 
Company Secretary 
 
With a copy sent to: 
 
Name: 
Mark McCowan, Partner, Corrs Chambers Westgarth 
Address: 
Level 37, Quay Quarter Tower, 50 Bridge Street, Sydney 
Email Address: mark.mccowan@corrs.com.au 
Attention: 
Mark McCowan 
 
17.3. 
If sent by post, notices are taken to be received three Business Days after 
posting (or seven Business Days after posting if sent to or from a place outside 
Australia). 
 
17.4. 
If sent by email, notices are taken to be received at the time shown in the email 
as the time the email was sent. 
Change of contact details 
 
17.5. 
Stockland must notify the ACCC of a change to its contact details within three 
Business Days. 
 
17.6. 
Any notice or communication will be sent to the most recently advised contact 
details and subject to clauses 17.3 and 17.4, will be taken to be received. 
 
 
18. 
Defined terms and interpretation 
 
Definitions in the Dictionary 
 
18.1. 
A term or expression starting with a capital letter: 
 
(a) which is defined in the Dictionary in Part 1 of Schedule 1 (Dictionary), has 
the meaning given to it in the Dictionary; or 
 
(b) which is defined in the Corporations Act, but is not defined in the Dictionary, 
has the meaning given to it in the Corporations Act. 


28 
 
Interpretation 
 
18.2. 
Part 2 of Schedule 1 sets out rules of interpretation for this Undertaking. 


30 
 
Schedule 1 – Dictionary and interpretation 
1. 
Dictionary 
 
ACCC means the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission. 
 
Act means the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth). 
 
Agreements means any contract, arrangement or understanding, including any contract, 
arrangement or understanding to renew, amend, vary or extend any contract, 
arrangement or understanding. 
 
Approved Audit Plan means the plan approved by the ACCC in accordance with the 
terms of this Undertaking, by which the Approved Independent Auditor will audit and 
report upon compliance with this Undertaking. 
 
Approved Business Sale Agreement means the standard form contract for the 
divestiture of the Unsold Business which has been approved by the ACCC in accordance 
with the terms of this Undertaking. 
 
Approved Divestiture Agent means the person approved by the ACCC and appointed 
under clause 10 of this Undertaking. 
 
Approved Independent Auditor means the person approved by the ACCC and 
appointed under clause 9 of this Undertaking. 
 
Approved Independent Manager means the person approved by the ACCC and 
appointed under clause 8 of this Undertaking. 
 
Approved Marketing and Sale Plan means the plan approved by the ACCC in 
accordance with the terms of this Undertaking, by which the Approved Divestiture Agent 
will market and effect the divestiture of the Unsold Business. 
 
Approved Purchaser means the person approved by the ACCC under clause 6 of this 
Undertaking. 
 
Approved Sale and Purchase Agreement means the contract approved by the ACCC 
in accordance with the terms of this Undertaking, by which Stockland will divest the 
Divestiture Businesses to the Approved Purchaser and the Approved Purchaser will 
acquire the Divestiture Business from Stockland. 
 
Approved Separation and Management Plan means the plan approved by the ACCC 
in accordance with the terms of this Undertaking, by which the Approved Independent 
Manager will: 
 
(a) separate the Divestiture Business from any business to be retained by 
Stockland; and 
(b) manage and operate the Divestiture Business independently of Stockland and 
any retained business. 
 
Approved Transitional Supply Agreement means any agreement, for the supply of 
goods or services (other than Technical Assistance) by Stockland to the Approved 
Purchaser, approved by the ACCC in accordance with the terms of this Undertaking. 
 
Approved Transitional Technical Assistance Agreement means any agreement, for 
the supply of Technical Assistance by Stockland to the Approved Purchaser, approved 
by the ACCC in accordance with the terms of this Undertaking. 


31 
 
Approved Terms of Appointment means the terms of appointment for the Approved 
Independent Manager, Approved Independent Auditor or Approved Divestiture Agent, as 
applicable, as approved by the ACCC in accordance with the terms of this Undertaking. 
 
Associated Entity has the meaning given by section 50AAA of the Corporations Act. 
 
Audit Report has the meaning given to it in clause 9.12 of this Undertaking. 
 
Biodiversity Stewardship Agreement means an agreement entered into between the 
Minister administering the Biodiversity Conservation Act 2016 (NSW) and the owner of 
land for the purpose of establishing a 'biodiversity stewardship site' over the land. 
 
Business Day means a day other than a Saturday or Sunday on which banks are open 
for business generally in the Australian Capital Territory. 
 
C2 Land means that part of development lot reference 197/1258914 comprising 
approximately 24.27 hectares of land zoned 'C2 Environmental Conservation' under the 
Wollongong Local Environmental Plan 2009. 
 
Calderwood Valley Acquisition is defined in clause 2.5 of this Undertaking. 
 
Change of Control means: 
 
• 
the assignment or other transfer of the legal or beneficial ownership of some or 
all of the share capital of Stockland to any other person or entity that may impact 
compliance with this Undertaking in its entirety; or 
• 
the sale or transfer of any assets necessary, or which may be necessary, to 
enable Stockland to continue to comply with this Undertaking in its entirety. 
 
Commencement Date means the date described in clause 3.1 of this Undertaking. 
 
Control Date means the date on which the Calderwood Valley Acquisition is completed. 
 
Consent to DA 2020/673 means the Council’s consent to the Development Application 
no. DA2020/673 between the Council and Stockland. 
 
Consent to DA 2023/19 mean the Council’s consent to the Development Application no. 
DA2023/619 between the Council and Stockland. 
 
Consents means any Government Consents or Third Party Consents. 
 
Corporations Act means the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth). 
 
Council means Wollongong City Council. 
 
Divestiture Business means the items described in Schedule 4 to this Undertaking. 
Entities Connected has the meaning given by section 64B of the Corporations Act. 
Establishment Audit has the meaning given to it in clause 9.13(a) of this Undertaking. 
Forest Reach Project means the masterplanned community being developed on land 
comprising, at the time of this Undertaking, lot references 197/1258914, 199/1258914, 
200/1258914 and 326/1258916. 


32 
 
Government Consents means any consents from any government agency required for 
the assignment, novation, sale, sub-licensing or transfer of any assets, licences, permits, 
approval or contracts required for the operation of the Divestiture Business. 
 
Holding Company has the meaning given by section 9 of the Corporations Act. 
 
Initial Sale Period is defined in clause 1 of Confidential Schedule 5 to this Undertaking. 
 
Material Change means any change to the structure, attributes, extent or operations of 
the Divestiture Business or product or service sold by a Divestiture Business that may 
affect, or impact on, the competitiveness of the Divestiture Business. 
 
Material Contract means any Agreement that is necessary for the operation of the 
Divestiture Business. 
 
Minister means the New South Wales Minister for Planning, Housing and Infrastructure 
(or equivalent). 
 
Proposed Acquisition is defined in clause 2.4 of this Undertaking. 
 
Proposed Divestiture Agent means a person named in a Proposed Divestiture Notice. 
 
Proposed Divestiture Agent Notice has the meaning given to it in clause 10.3 of this 
Undertaking. 
 
Proposed Independent Auditor means a person named in a Proposed Independent 
Auditor Notice. 
 
Proposed Independent Auditor Notice has the meaning given to it in clause 9.2 of this 
Undertaking. 
 
Proposed Independent Manager means a person named in a Proposed Independent 
Manager Notice. 
 
Proposed Independent Manager Notice has the meaning given to it in clause 8.2 of 
this Undertaking. 
 
Proposed Purchaser means a person named in a Proposed Purchaser Notice. 
 
Proposed Purchaser Notice has the meaning given to it in clause 6.2 of this 
Undertaking. 
 
Proposed Undertaking Appointment means a Proposed Independent Manager, 
Proposed Independent Auditor or Proposed Divestiture Agent. 
 
Public Mergers Register means the ACCC’s public register of merger clearances, 
available at www.accc.gov.au. 
 
Public Section 87B Undertakings Register means the ACCC’s public register of 
section 87B undertakings, available at www.accc.gov.au. 
 
Related Bodies Corporate has the meaning given to it by section 50 of the Corporations 
Act. 
 
Related Entities has the meaning given to it by section 9 of the Corporations Act. 
 
Related Parties has the meaning given to it by section 228 of the Corporations Act. 


33 
 
State VPA means the voluntary planning agreement between the Minister and 
Stockland, entered into on 21 September 2020. 
 
Stockland means the entity referred to in clause 1.1 of this Undertaking. 
 
Subsidiary has the meaning given by section 9 of the Corporations Act. 
 
Technical Assistance includes advising on technical knowledge documentation, 
supporting the Approved Purchaser on acquiring specific assets necessary for the 
ongoing conduct of the Divestiture Business, providing staff with suitable experience and 
skills to assist and/or advice on technical issues, assisting in training for the Approved 
Purchaser’s staff, and providing guidance on regulatory and legal aspects relating to the 
transfer of or application for licences. 
 
Third Party Consents means any Consent from any entity that is not a government 
agency required for the assignment, novation, sale, sub-licensing or transfer of any 
assets, licences, permits, approval or contracts required for the operation of the 
Divestiture Business. 
 
Transferred Personnel has the meaning given to it in clause 5.8 of this Undertaking. 
 
Undertaking is a reference to all provisions of this document, including its schedules and 
as varied from time to time under section 87B of the Act. 
 
Undertaking Appointment means the Approved Independent Manager, the Approved 
Independent Auditor or the Approved Divestiture Agent, as applicable. 
 
Undertaking Signatories has the meaning given to it in clause 1.1 of this Undertaking. 
 
Unsold Business has the meaning given to it in clause 10.1 of this Undertaking. 
 
 
2. 
Interpretation 
2.1 
In the interpretation of this Undertaking, the following provisions apply unless the 
context otherwise requires: 
(a) a reference to this Undertaking includes all of the provisions of this document 
including its schedules; 
(b) headings are inserted for convenience only and do not affect the 
interpretation of this Undertaking; 
(c) if the day on which any act, matter or thing is to be done under this 
Undertaking is not a Business Day, the act, matter or thing must be done on 
the next Business Day; 
(d) a reference in this Undertaking to any law, legislation or legislative provision 
includes any statutory modification, amendment or re-enactment, and any 
subordinate legislation or regulations issued under that legislation or 
legislative provision; 
(e) a reference in this Undertaking to any company includes its Related Bodies 
Corporate; 
(f) a reference in this Undertaking to any agreement or document is to that 
agreement or document as amended, novated, supplemented or replaced; 


34 
 
(g) a reference to a clause, part, schedule or attachment is a reference to a 
clause, part, schedule or attachment of or to this Undertaking; 
(h) an expression importing a natural person includes any company, trust, 
partnership, joint venture, association, body corporate or governmental 
agency; 
(i) where a word or phrase is given a defined meaning, another part of speech 
or other grammatical form in respect of that word or phrase has a 
corresponding meaning; 
(j) a word which denotes the singular also denotes the plural, a word which 
denotes the plural also denotes the singular. 
(k) a reference to the words 'such as', 'including', 'particularly' and similar 
expressions is to be construed without limitation; 
(l) a construction that would promote the purpose - or object - underlying the 
Undertaking (whether expressly stated or not) will be preferred to a 
construction that would not promote that purpose or object; 
(m) material not forming part of this Undertaking may be considered to: 
(i) confirm the meaning of a clause is the ordinary meaning conveyed by 
the text of the clause, taking into account its context in the Undertaking 
and the competition concerns intended to be addressed by the 
Undertaking and the clause in question; or 
(ii) determine the meaning of the clause when the ordinary meaning 
conveyed by the text of the clause, taking into account its context in the 
Undertaking and the purpose or object underlying the Undertaking, leads 
to a result that does not promote the purpose or object underlying the 
Undertaking; 
(n) in determining whether consideration should be given to any material in 
accordance with paragraph (m), or in considering any weight to be given to 
any such material, regard must be had, in addition to any other relevant 
matters, to the: 
(i) effect that reliance on the ordinary meaning conveyed by the text of the 
clause would, have (taking into account its context in the Undertaking 
and whether that meaning promotes the purpose or object of the 
Undertaking); and 
(ii) need to ensure that the result of the Undertaking is to completely 
address any ACCC competition concerns; 
(o) the ACCC may authorise the ACCC Mergers Review Committee, a member 
of the ACCC or a member of the ACCC staff, to exercise a decision making 
function under this Undertaking on its behalf and that authorisation may be 
subject to any conditions which the ACCC may impose; 
(p) in performing its obligations under this Undertaking, Stockland will do 
everything reasonably within its power to ensure that its performance of 
those obligations is done in a manner which is consistent with promoting the 
purpose and object of this Undertaking; 
(q) a reference to: 


35 
 
(i) a thing (including, but not limited to, a chose in action or other right) 
includes a part of that thing; 
(ii) a party includes its successors and permitted assigns; and 
(iii) a monetary amount is in Australian dollars. 


36 
 
Schedule 2 – Proposed Purchaser Notice Form 
 
This form sets out the information required by the ACCC in relation to a Proposed 
Purchaser. 
 
Please note that it is an offence under s137.1 of the Criminal Code Act 1995 (Cth) to give 
information to a Commonwealth entity knowing that the information is false or misleading 
or omits any matter or thing without which the information is misleading. 
1. 
Method of Delivery to the ACCC 
The completed form with requested documents attached should be provided to the 
ACCC using the following method: 
 
Email 
Subject line: 
Proposed Purchaser Notice – Stockland Undertaking 
Address: 
mergers@accc.gov.au 
Attention: 
Executive General Manager – Mergers, Exemptions & Digital Division 
 
 
With an email copy sent to: 
Address: 
mergersru@accc.gov.au 
Attention: 
Director, Remedies Unit - Policy, Coordination & Remedies Branch, 
Mergers, Exemptions & Digital Division 
 
2. 
Information Required 
 
The ACCC requires the following information in order to assess a Proposed Purchaser. 
 
2.1 
Proposed Purchaser details: 
 
(a) Name of the Proposed Purchaser; 
 
(b) Address; 
 
(c) 
Contact name; 
 
(d) Telephone number; 
 
(e) Other contact details. 
 
2.2 
A submission containing the following information: 
 
(a) a description of the business carried on by the Proposed Purchaser 
including the locations in which the Proposed Purchaser carries on its 
business; 
 
(b) details of the Proposed Purchaser’s experience in the relevant market(s); 
 
(c) 
the names of the owner(s) and the director(s) of the Proposed Purchaser; 
 
(d) details of any of the following types of relationships between Stockland and 
the Proposed Purchaser or confirmation that no such relationship exists 
whether within Australia or outside of Australia: 


37 
 
(i) 
Stockland and the Proposed Purchaser are Associated Entities; 
 
(ii) 
Stockland is an Entity Connected with the Proposed Purchaser; 
 
(iii) 
the Proposed Purchaser is an Entity Connected with Stockland; 
 
(iv) 
Stockland and the Proposed Purchaser are Related Entities; 
 
(v) 
Stockland and the Proposed Purchaser are Related Parties; 
 
(vi) 
any Related Party, Related Entity or Entity Connected with 
Stockland is a Related Party, Related Entity or Entity Connected with 
the Proposed Purchaser; 
 
(vii) 
Stockland and the Proposed Purchaser have a contractual 
relationship or had one within the past three years, other than those 
attached to this form; 
 
(viii) the Proposed Purchaser is a supplier of Stockland or has been in the 
past three years; 
 
(ix) 
Stockland is a supplier of the Proposed Purchaser or has been in the 
past three years; and 
 
(x) 
any other relationship between Stockland and the Proposed 
Purchaser that allows one to affect the business decisions of the 
other; 
 
(e) a section addressing the following factors, including any information adverse 
to the Proposed Purchaser, in the power, possession or control of 
Stockland: 
 
(i) 
whether the draft sale and purchase agreement is consistent with 
this Undertaking; 
 
(i) 
whether the Proposed Purchaser will complete the transaction as 
contemplated by the draft sale and purchase agreement; 
 
(ii) 
whether the Proposed Purchaser is of good financial standing; 
 
(iii) 
whether the Proposed Purchaser has an intention to maintain and 
operate the Divestiture Business as a going concern; 
 
(iv) 
whether the Proposed Purchaser is able to conduct the Divestiture 
Business effectively; 
 
(v) 
whether the divestiture of the Divestiture Business to the Proposed 
Purchaser will address any competition concerns of the ACCC, 
including any relationships (including but not limited to shareholding 
interests, other proprietary interests, contracts, arrangements or 
understandings) between the Proposed Purchaser and other entities 
in a relevant market, and the likely long-term viability and 
competitiveness of the Divestiture Business under the ownership of 
the Proposed Purchaser; and 
 
(vi) 
any other matters that may affect the Proposed Purchaser’s capacity 
or ability to acquire or operate the Divestiture Business, such as 
outstanding legal action or disputes. 


38 
 
2.3 
Please also attach to this form: 
 
(a) the finalised draft of the sale and purchase agreement for approval by the 
ACCC in accordance with this Undertaking. 
 
(b) the finalised draft of any transitional technical assistance agreement for 
approval by the ACCC in accordance with this Undertaking. 
 
(c) 
the finalised draft of any transitional supply agreement for approval by the 
ACCC in accordance with this Undertaking. 
 
(d) any documents required to support the information provided by Stockland 
pursuant to this form. 


39 
 
Schedule 3 – Proposed Undertaking Appointment Form 
 
 
This form sets out the information required by the ACCC in relation to proposed 
appointment of the following positions under the Undertaking: 
 
• 
Proposed Independent Manager; 
 
• 
Proposed Independent Auditor; or 
 
• 
Proposed Divestiture Agent 
(the Undertaking Appointment). 
This form is to be used for each of the above appointments. 
 
Please note that it is an offence under s137.1 of the Criminal Code Act 1995 (Cth) to give 
information to a Commonwealth entity knowing that the information is false or misleading 
or omits any matter or thing without which the information is misleading. 
1. 
Method of Delivery to the ACCC 
The completed form with requested documents attached may be provided to the ACCC 
using the following method: 
 
Email 
Subject line:  Proposed [only include relevant Undertaking Appointment i.e. 
Independent Manager/Independent Auditor/Divestiture Agent] Notice – 
Stockland Undertaking 
Address: 
mergers@accc.gov.au 
Attention: 
Executive General Manager – Mergers, Exemptions & Digital Division 
 
 
With an email copy sent to: 
Address: 
mergersru@accc.gov.au 
Attention: 
Director, Remedies Unit - Policy, Coordination & Remedies Branch, 
Mergers, Exemptions & Digital Division 
 
2. 
Information Required 
 
The ACCC requires the following information in order to assess a proposed Independent 
Manager, Independent Auditor or Divestiture Agent (i.e. the relevant Undertaking 
Appointment). 
 
2.1 
Proposed Undertaking Appointment details: 
 
(a) the name of the Proposed Undertaking Appointment; and 
 
(b) the name of the proposed Undertaking Appointment’s employer and contact 
details including: 
 
(i) 
Address; 
 
(ii) 
Contact name; 


40 
 
(iii) 
Telephone number; 
 
(iv) 
Other contact details. 
 
2.2 
A submission containing the following information: 
 
(a) details of the Undertaking Appointment’s qualifications and experience 
relevant to his or her proposed role pursuant to the Undertaking; 
 
(b) the names of the owner(s) and the director(s) of the Undertaking 
Appointment’s employer; 
 
(c) 
details of any of the following types of relationships between Stockland and 
the Undertaking Appointment or the Undertaking Appointment’s employer or 
confirmation that no such relationship exists whether within Australia or 
outside of Australia: 
 
(i) 
Stockland and the Undertaking Appointment’s employer are 
Associated Entities; 
 
(ii) 
Stockland is an Entity Connected with the Undertaking 
Appointment’s employer; 
 
(iii) 
The Undertaking Appointment’s employer is an Entity Connected 
with Stockland; 
 
(iv) 
Stockland and the Undertaking Appointment’s employer are Related 
Entities; 
 
(v) 
Stockland and the Undertaking Appointment’s employer are Related 
Parties; 
 
(vi) 
any Related Party, Related Entity or Entity Connected with 
Stockland is a Related Party, Related Entity or Entity Connected with 
the Undertaking Appointment; 
 
(vii) 
Stockland and the Undertaking Appointment or the Undertaking 
Appointment’s employer have a contractual relationship or had one 
within the past three years, other than those attached to this form; 
 
(viii) the Undertaking Appointment’s employer is a supplier of Stockland 
or has been in the past three years; 
 
(ix) 
Stockland is a supplier of the Undertaking Appointment’s employer 
or has been in the past three years; and 
 
(x) 
any other relationship between Stockland and the Undertaking 
Appointment or the Undertaking Appointment’s employer that allows 
one to affect the business decisions of the other; 
 
(d) details of any existing or past contractual relationships between the 
Undertaking Appointment or the Undertaking Appointment's employer and 
the ACCC within the past three years. 
 
2.3 
A document outlining the terms of appointment for the proposed Undertaking 
Appointment. This should identify the basis on which fees will be paid, including 
disclosure of any proposed performance-based fees. 


41 
 
3. 
Specific Information required for Proposed Undertaking 
Appointments 
 
The ACCC requires the below information in relation to the relevant Undertaking 
Appointment. 
Proposed Independent Auditor 
 
3.1 
A finalised draft audit plan for the Divestiture Business, in an editable format, 
drafted by the Proposed Independent Auditor and outlining (to the extent possible) 
the Proposed Independent Auditor’s plans regarding the Establishment Audit and 
the Audit Report. 
 
Proposed Divestiture Agent 
 
3.2 
The finalised draft business sale agreement drafted by the Proposed Divestiture 
Agent in consultation with Stockland, in an editable format. The draft business sale 
agreement is to provide for the divestiture of the Unsold Business. 
 
3.3 
The Proposed Divestiture Agent’s draft marketing and sale plan for the Unsold 
Business, in an editable format. 
 
Proposed Independent Manager 
 
3.4 
The finalised draft separation and management plan for the Divestiture Business, 
in an editable format, detailing the measures and timing to be implemented by 
Stockland and the Approved Independent Manager in order to fulfil Stockland’s 
and the Approved Independent Manager’s obligations pursuant to this 
Undertaking. This plan is to be drafted by the Proposed Independent Manager in 
consultation with Stockland to achieve the objectives of the Undertaking including: 
 
(a) the intended mode of operation of the Divestiture Business until completion 
of its divestiture; 
 
(b) separation measures to ensure the Divestiture Business is operated in a 
manner which is financially and operationally separate from Stockland, 
including the; 
 
(i) 
separation of the books and records of the Divestiture Business from 
those of Stockland; 
 
(ii) 
severance of the Divestiture Business’s participation in any private 
shared information technology networks, to the extent possible 
without compromising the viability of the Divestiture Business; 
 
(iii) 
implementation of specific electronic, information and physical 
security measures to maintain the confidentiality of any competitively 
sensitive information of the Divestiture Business; and 
 
(iv) 
severance of arrangements to share personnel and plant between 
the Divestiture Business and any businesses to be retained by 
Stockland, to the extent possible without compromising the viability 
of the Divestiture Business; 


42 
 
(c) 
details of contracts for the provision of goods or services to the Divestiture 
Business which will expire after the completion of the divestiture of the 
Divestiture Business to the Approved Purchaser and the actions which will 
be taken to ensure they are replaced, renewed and/or renegotiated on 
commercial terms favourable to the Divestiture Business; 
 
(d) personnel planning to maintain appropriate personnel levels and ensure that 
the Divestiture Business has access to all personnel necessary to operate 
the Divestiture Business; 
 
(e) any Material Changes to the Divestiture Business required in order to fulfil 
Stockland’s and the Approved Independent Manager’s obligations pursuant 
to the Undertaking; 
 
(f) 
the cooperation required from the Approved Independent Manager with 
Stockland in relation to the divestiture of the Divestiture Business, including: 
 
(i) 
the activities to be conducted by the Approved Independent 
Manager that are necessary for the effective operation of the 
Divestiture Business, having regard to the nature of the Divestiture 
Business (including the extent to which the Divestiture Business 
already has a management structure in place prior to the proposed 
acquisition that will be retained during the hold separate period); 
 
(ii) 
the method by which due diligence information, site visits and 
personnel interviews by and to prospective purchasers of the 
Divestiture Business will be managed; 
 
(iii) 
the method by which the Approved Independent Manager and 
Stockland will preserve the confidentiality of the Divestiture 
Business’s competitively sensitive information from Stockland and its 
advisers throughout this process; and 
 
(iv) 
a protocol whereby the Approved Independent Manager can provide 
any information requested by Stockland without disclosing the 
details of the Divestiture Business’s competitively sensitive 
information to Stockland. 


43 
 
Schedule 4 – Divestiture Business 
 
 
1. 
Property interests 
 
Subject to clause 5.18, Stockland’s freehold interest in the land in Huntley, NSW on 
which the Forest Reach Project is being developed, which at the Commencement Date is 
development lot references 197/1258914, 199/1258914, 200/1258914 and 
326/1258916), as well as any unsold titled residential lots. 
 
2. 
Associated assets 
 
All other assets associated with the Forest Reach Project owned or held by Stockland to 
conduct the Forest Reach Project at the Commencement Date or at the date of 
completion of the divestiture of the Divestiture Business or Unsold Business (as 
applicable), including the rights and benefits under contracts, approvals and 
authorisations, records, intellectual property, goodwill, information, plant and equipment 
and all other tangible and intangible assets used in connection with the Forest Reach 
Project, including (but not limited to): 
 
(a) Buildings 
 
The Forest Reach Project’s sales office and fixtures. 
 
(b) Contracts and agreements 
 
The Forest Reach Contracts identified in Confidential Schedule 5. 
 
(c) 
Intellectual property rights 
 
All intellectual property rights developed specifically for the Forest Reach 
Project that can be assigned or leased, including any trademarks, business 
names, domain names and market collateral, but excluding any Stockland- 
specific intellectual property or branding. 


Confidential Schedule 5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
