Page 1 of 29 
 
Statement of Issues 
4 July 2024 
Stockland and Supalai – proposed acquisition of 12 
residential masterplanned communities from 
Lendlease Group 
Purpose 
1. 
Stockland Supalai Residential Communities Partnership Pty Ltd (SSRCP) proposes to 
acquire 12 Lendlease Group (Lendlease) residential masterplanned communities 
(MPC) projects (the proposed acquisition). SSRCP is jointly owned by Stockland 
Communities Partnership HoldCo Pty Ltd (Stockland) (50.1%) and Supalai Australia 
Holdings Pty Limited (Supalai) (49.9%).  
2. 
This Statement of Issues: 
• 
gives the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission’s (ACCC) preliminary 
views on competition issues arising from the proposed acquisition, 
• 
identifies areas of further inquiry, and 
• 
invites interested parties to submit comments and information to assist our 
assessment of the issues. 
3. 
Statements of Issues do not refer to confidential information provided by the parties or 
other market participants and therefore may not fully articulate the ACCC’s preliminary 
position.   
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views 
4. 
In considering the proposed acquisition, the ACCC applies the legal test set out in 
section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the CCA). In general terms, 
section 50 prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to have the 
effect, of substantially lessening competition in any market. 
5. 
The ACCC divides its preliminary views into three categories: 'issues of concern', 
'issues that may raise concerns' and ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’. In this 
Statement of Issues there is one ‘issue of concern’ and three ‘issues that may raise 
concern’, and three ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’.  


Page 2 of 29 
Relationship between SSRCP, Stockland and Supalai 
6. 
The ACCC’s assessment of the likely competitive impacts of the proposed acquisition 
depends, in part, on the ownership arrangements in place for SSRCP, as well as 
Stockland and Supalai’s various existing interests in MPC projects in the relevant 
markets. 
7. 
Stockland holds a 50.1% interest in SSRCP. Therefore, under the proposed acquisition, 
Stockland would obtain a substantial economic interest in the revenues and profits of 
12 MPC projects previously held by Lendlease. The ACCC is concerned that this direct 
economic interest would provide Stockland in particular with an increased incentive to 
raise the price, delay the supply or reduce the quality of MPC offerings from its own 
(fully-owned) MPC projects in the Illawarra, North West Perth, Ipswich and Moreton Bay 
regions. This is because, post-acquisition, Stockland would, to a certain extent, benefit 
from such actions through the resulting increase in demand for and price of SSRCP’s 
MPC lots. Although Stockland (and other developers) may face financial incentives to 
develop and sell lots quickly to manage development and holding costs, if they can 
profitably raise the price of lots they are selling, they may nevertheless find it 
worthwhile to slow their pace of sales compared to what their sales would be in the 
absence of the proposed acquisition. 
8. 
The ACCC also considers that Stockland is likely to have a high degree of influence 
over the strategic decisions of SSRCP in its capacity as a 50.1% co-owner of SSRCP. 
This influence is likely to include decisions on the timing of releases, pricing, and 
quality of MPC housing lots. The ACCC is concerned that Stockland would have 
incentives to exercise its ability to influence SSRCP’s strategic decisions in a way that 
may further harm competition. This could include preventing or hindering SSRCP from 
competitively responding to an increase in the price or reduction in the supply or quality 
of MPC offerings from Stockland’s own MPC projects. Such conduct could exacerbate 
the anticompetitive effects of Stockland increasing the price or reducing the supply or 
quality of MPC offerings from its own MPC projects. 
9. 
Finally, the ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition may increase the 
likelihood of coordination between Stockland, Supalai, and in some cases, Supalai’s 
MPC partners in relation to the pricing, supply and/or quality of MPC offerings. This is 
particularly a concern for the North West Perth region. As a result of the proposed 
acquisition, Stockland and Supalai would likely have increased opportunities to 
coordinate the pricing, supply or quality of MPC offerings from their individually and co-
owned MPC projects in a way that could further worsen market outcomes. 
Questions for market participants 
The ACCC invites comments from developers, capital investors or landowners who have 
been in, or are currently in, partnerships or arrangements with developers. The ACCC is 
particularly interested in each of the Illawarra, North West Perth, Ipswich and Moreton Bay 
regions and invites developers, capital investors and landowners to comment on: 
• 
the extent to which Stockland would have incentives to raise the price or 
reduce the supply or quality of its own MPC lots in any of the relevant regions 
as a result of the proposed acquisition, 


Page 3 of 29 
• 
the extent to which Stockland would have incentives to influence SSRCP’s 
strategic decisions (for example, by preventing or hindering SSRCP from 
competitively responding to Stockland’s conduct at its own MPCs), and 
whether the joint ownership of SSRCP by Stockland and Supalai is likely to 
mitigate such concerns, 
• 
the extent to which other commercial arrangements or incentives may 
influence the likelihood of Stockland reducing supply at its MPC projects in the 
relevant regions post-acquisition, including: (i) the internal rate of return or 
return on invested capital targets, (ii) shareholder expectations, or (iii) 
obligations to landowners under any applicable project delivery agreement, 
and 
• 
whether the combination of Stockland’s existing interests and the joint 
ownership of SSRCP by Stockland and Supalai is likely to increase the risk of 
coordination between Stockland, Supalai and/or Supalai’s development 
partners. 
 
 
Issue of concern  
Illawarra 
10. 
The proposed acquisition would bring together the two largest existing MPC housing 
lot offerings in an already highly concentrated Illawarra region with few alternative 
suppliers with comparable offerings to the parties.  
11. 
The ACCC is concerned that this is likely to increase Stockland’s incentive to raise the 
price or reduce the supply or quality of offerings from its Forest Reach MPC. These 
incentives would arise because Stockland would benefit from such actions to some 
extent through the resulting increase in the demand for and price of SSRCP’s lots at its 
Calderwood Valley MPC project. In addition, the ACCC is concerned that Stockland 
would have incentives to influence SSRCP’s strategic decisions – for example, by 
preventing or hindering SSRCP from competitively responding to Stockland’s conduct 
in relation to Forest Reach through increases in the supply or quality of offering from 
SSRCP’s Calderwood Valley MPC project.  
12. 
The ACCC is also concerned that the proposed acquisition may increase the likelihood 
of coordination between Stockland and Supalai on the pricing, supply or quality of their 
overall holdings of MPC lots across both the Forest Reach and Calderwood Valley 
projects to increase their combined profits. 
Issues that may raise concerns  
North West Perth 
13. 
The proposed acquisition of two Lendlease MPC projects (Alkimos Beach and Alkimos 
Vista) would bring together two of the developers with the largest MPC housing lot 
offerings in the North West Perth region, with alternate suppliers potentially not being 
able to sufficiently constrain Stockland.  
14. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition may increase Stockland’s 
incentives to raise the price or reduce the supply or quality of offerings from its own 


Page 4 of 29 
MPC projects, while also increasing Stockland’s incentives to influence SSRCP’s 
strategic decisions – for example, by preventing or hindering SSRCP from 
competitively responding by increasing the supply or quality of lot releases from its 
own MPC projects, particularly Amberton Beach. 
15. 
The ACCC is also concerned that the proposed acquisition may increase the likelihood 
of coordination between Stockland, Supalai and Peet Limited (Peet) on the pricing, 
supply or quality of their overall individually-owned and co-owned MPC offerings in the 
region to increase their combined profits (noting Peet is an existing development 
partner of Supalai in this region).  
Ipswich  
16. 
The proposed acquisition would bring together two of the developers with the largest 
MPC housing lot offerings in the Ipswich region (and the only two developers in 
Springfield specifically), with alternate developers potentially not being able to 
sufficiently constrain Stockland.  
17. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition may increase Stockland’s 
incentives to raise the price or reduce the supply or quality of offering from its own 
MPC projects, while also increasing Stockland’s incentives to influence SSRCP’s 
strategic decisions – for example, by preventing or hindering SSRCP from 
competitively responding by increasing the supply or quality of lot releases from its 
MPC projects. 
18. 
The ACCC is also concerned that the proposed acquisition may increase the likelihood 
of coordination between Stockland and Supalai on the pricing, supply or quality of their 
overall holdings of lots to increase their combined profits. 
Moreton Bay 
19. 
The proposed acquisition would bring together two of the developers with the largest 
MPC housing offerings in the Moreton Bay region (Lendlease’s Kinma Valley and 
Stockland’s future Caboolture West project), with alternate developers potentially not 
being able to sufficiently constrain Stockland.  
20. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition may increase Stockland’s 
incentive to raise the price or reduce the supply or quality of lots from its own MPC 
projects, while also increasing Stockland’s incentives to influence SSRCP’s strategic 
decisions – for example, by preventing or hindering SSRCP from competitively 
responding by increasing the supply or quality of offering from its MPC projects. 
21. 
The ACCC is also concerned that the proposed acquisition may increase the likelihood 
of coordination between Stockland and Supalai on the pricing, supply or quality of their 
overall holdings of lots to increase their combined profits. 
Issues unlikely to raise concerns 
22. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is not likely to have the 
effect of substantially lessening competition in the supply of residential MPC housing 
in 7 local areas (South-West Sydney, Redlands, Logan, Melton, Whittlesea, 
Casey/Cardinia, and Wyndham) because of a combination of one or more factors, 
including limited to no overlap between Stockland and/or Supalai and Lendlease, 


Page 5 of 29 
sufficient alternative MPC developers to constrain Stockland and/or Supalai post-
acquisition, and/or low combined market shares.  
23. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is not likely to have the 
effect of substantially lessening competition in any market for the acquisition of land 
for residential development due to the existence of numerous competing large and 
small developers actively seeking new land holdings.  
24. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is not likely to have the 
effect of substantially lessening competition in any market for the procurement of 
building and construction services for MPC developments because the parties do not 
account for a large portion of building and construction acquisitions.  
Making a submission 
25. 
The ACCC invites submissions from interested parties, particularly on the following key 
issues in relation to the supply of residential MPC housing in each of the Illawarra, 
North West Perth, Ipswich and Moreton Bay regions: 
• 
the closeness of competition between Stockland, Supalai and Lendlease’s 
MPC projects, including in relation to quality, pricing, lot size and in the timing 
of lot releases, the extent to which other MPC developments compete with 
Stockland, Supalai and Lendlease’s MPC projects, including on quality, pricing, 
lot size, and in the timing of lot releases, 
• 
the height of barriers and likelihood of new entry and/or expansion by 
alternative MPC developers, and 
• 
the extent to which investors with interests in MPC projects have access to 
pricing and lot release information, and the impact this may have on 
competition if an investor has interests in multiple MPC projects.  
26. 
Interested parties should provide submissions by 5pm (AEST) on 18 July 2024. 
Responses may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: Submission re: 
Stockland/Lendlease. If you would like to discuss the matter with ACCC staff or have 
any questions about this Statement of Issues, please email mergers@accc.gov.au.  
27. 
The ACCC anticipates making a final decision on 12 September 2024, however, this 
timeline can change. To keep up with possible timing changes and to find relevant 
documents, interested parties should visit the Mergers Register on the ACCC’s website 
at www.accc.gov.au/publicregisters/mergers-registers/public-informal-merger-
reviews. 
Confidentiality of submissions 
28. 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. The ACCC 
will not disclose submissions to third parties (except its advisors/consultants) unless 
compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or during 
court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the CCA. Where the ACCC is 
required to disclose confidential information, the ACCC will notify you in advance 
where possible so that you may have an opportunity to be heard. Therefore, please 
identify any confidential information that is provided to the ACCC. The ACCC’s Informal 
Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 


Page 6 of 29 
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’ 
29. 
A Statement of Issues is not a final decision about a proposed acquisition. 
A Statement of Issues outlines the ACCC’s preliminary views and identifies further lines 
of inquiry. 
30. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
purchasers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide the 
merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 
Industry background 
31. 
MPC housing projects are residential developments on greenfield land which are 
typically delivered in phases over multiple years. They are characterised by access to 
amenities with a focus on ‘community living’, such as open spaces, recreational 
facilities, education and community hubs, as well as commercial or retail centres.  
32. 
The development of MPC projects involve: 
 
33. 
On a state and growth corridor basis, demand is driven by net immigration, population 
growth and net interstate and inter-region migration. Governments support the supply 
of new housing by making new land available for development. These new land parcels 
are typically situated in what is known as a ‘growth corridor’, where certain areas of a 
region are designated for economic growth and development.   
The parties  
The acquirer: SSRCP  
34. 
SSRCP is a wholly owned subsidiary of SSRCP HoldCo Pty Ltd which is owned by 
Stockland (50.1%) and Supalai (49.9%). It is a special purpose acquisition vehicle for 
the proposed acquisition. 
Stockland 
35. 
Stockland is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Stockland Corporation Limited (together 
with its subsidiaries, Stockland Group). Stockland Group is an ASX-listed diversified 
Australian property group that owns, funds, develops and manages portfolios of 
investment properties including retail town centres, commercial properties, industrial 
and logistics properties, MPC projects and land lease communities. Stockland Group 
currently has interests in 30 MPC projects across NSW, ACT, Queensland, Victoria and 
Western Australia. 


Page 7 of 29 
Supalai 
36. 
Supalai is a wholly owned subsidiary of Supalai Public Company Limited, which is listed 
on the Stock Exchange of Thailand. Supalai Public Company Limited principally 
operates as a property developer. Supalai has investments in 10 MPC projects1 in 
Victoria, Queensland and Western Australia through joint ventures with other 
developers, including Mirvac, Stockland, Satterley, Peet and ICD Property.  
The target: Lendlease projects 
37. 
Lendlease is an ASX-listed, global real estate business, which has core capabilities in 
real estate development, construction and investment management. Lendlease’s MPC 
development business constitutes one of three residential portfolios currently operated 
by Lendlease: communities, apartments and retirement living. Lendlease’s MPC 
development business (Lendlease Communities) comprises 16 MPC projects across 
NSW, Queensland, Victoria and Western Australia.2  
The proposed acquisition 
38. 
SSRCP proposes to acquire 12 of Lendlease’s 16 residential MPC projects, located 
across greenfield growth areas within Greater Sydney, South East Queensland, Greater 
Melbourne, and Greater Perth. 
Future with and without the acquisition  
39. 
The test for assessing whether a proposed acquisition is likely to have the effect of 
substantially lessening competition requires a comparison between the nature and 
extent of competition in any market potentially affected by the acquisition in the ‘future 
with’ the acquisition and the ‘future without’ the acquisition. 
40. 
The ACCC is considering whether the future without the acquisition would be materially 
different to the status quo where the relevant MPC projects are operated by an 
effective and independent competitor to Stockland and Supalai in the relevant markets. 
At this stage, the ACCC considers this unlikely and notes there are likely to be 
alternative purchaser(s) available for all or some of the relevant MPC projects. 
 
 
 
 
1  
Supalai has interests in the following MPC projects: Arcadia (Cardinia, VIC), Gen Fyansford (Greater 
Geelong, VIC), Katalia (Whittlesea, VIC), Newhaven (Wyndham, VIC), Smiths Lane (Casey, VIC), True North (Hume-
Craigieburn, VIC), Edens Crossing (Ipswich, QLD), Ridgeview (Brisbane North/Moreton Bay, QLD), Elavale (North-
West Perth, WA), Seaside (Peel, WA). 
2  
Lendlease has interests in the following MPC projects: Calderwood Valley (Illawarra, NSW), Figtree Hill 
(South-West Sydney, NSW), Jordan Springs (Penrith, NSW), Kings Central (Werrington, NSW), The New Rouse Hill 
(Greater Sydney, NSW), Kinma Valley (Moreton Bay, QLD), Shoreline (Redlands, QLD), Elliot Springs (Townsville, 
QLD), Springfield Rise (Ipswich, QLD), Yarrabilba (Logan, QLD), Atherstone (Melton, VIC), Aurora (Whittlesea, VIC), 
Averley (Casey-Pakenham, VIC), Harpley (Wyndham, VIC), Alkimos Beach (Perth, WA), Alkimos Vista (Perth, WA). 


Page 8 of 29 
Market definition  
Product dimension 
41. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the relevant product market is the supply of 
residential MPC housing. 
42. 
The ACCC is continuing to consider the extent to which there may be substitution 
between residential MPC housing and other forms of housing, including established 
housing.  
43. 
Established housing can comprise dwellings outside of MPC projects in nearby areas, 
and resales within MPC projects. These dwellings include detached houses, 
apartments and townhouses. The ACCC is particularly interested in substitution 
between MPC housing and detached established housing.  
44. 
Apartments and townhouses are not generally considered viable alternatives for buyers 
of MPC housing who are generally seeking space for family living, including outdoor 
space. The pricing and availability of apartments and townhouses also do not appear 
to be factored into the pricing of MPC lots by developers. 
45. 
There are often important differences in the amenities associated with MPC housing 
and established detached dwellings, for example with MPC projects often providing 
purchasers with greater access to community living and open spaces. Further, the 
ACCC understands that MPC housing is preferred by certain consumers who 
significantly value new-builds tailored to their preferences. There are also differences 
in the acquisition and delivery of the products, with MPC housing generally involving 
significantly longer lead times.  
46. 
While established detached dwellings may be a substitute for residential MPC housing 
for some buyers, the supply of established detached dwellings at current prices is 
limited by the willingness of existing home-owners to sell and (typically) move. As 
such, if the price of MPC lots were to increase, there would be insufficient supply of 
established houses to allow such a price increase to be disciplined by buyers switching 
to established houses (and the increased demand for established houses would likely 
increase their price). Established housing is therefore unlikely to closely constrain 
nearby MPC residential lots and, in particular, the price of such properties. 
47. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that residential MPC developers compete most closely 
with other residential MPC developers, with established housing, including detached 
dwellings (as well as townhouses and apartments), unlikely to impose sufficient 
constraint on Stockland, SSRCP and/or Supalai to prevent the exercise of increased 
market power post-acquisition.   
Geographic dimension  
 
48. 
The ACCC has not formed a concluded view on the geographic dimensions of the 
relevant markets. The ACCC has concerns regarding Stockland’s acquisition of an 
interest in certain Lendlease MPC projects in each of the Illawarra, North West Perth, 
Ipswich and Moreton Bay regions.  


Page 9 of 29 
49. 
The ACCC is assessing the impact of competition in each region which broadly 
correlate to a growth corridor, but will have regard to local area considerations (such as 
the extent of supply, availability of competitive constraints and topography) which may 
change the relevant geographic boundaries of competition.  
50. 
The ACCC is continuing to consider the relevant geographic boundaries for each of the 
Illawarra, North West Perth, Ipswich and Moreton Bay regions, and in particular, the 
distance from the Lendlease target MPC project(s) within which customers are likely to 
consider alternative MPC offerings. 
51. 
Market feedback and the ACCC’s inquiries to date suggests that most MPC purchasers 
reside within local areas of each target Lendlease MPC project, and that pricing is 
localised and may be benchmarked with regard to local factors, including the suburban 
catchment area of a region (which is generally between a 5-15km radius of a target 
MPC).  
52. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is the relevant geographic boundaries are approximately 
as follows:  
• 
Illawarra: 15km from the relevant Lendlease MPC project    
• 
North West Perth: 5-15km from the relevant Lendlease MPC project(s)   
• 
Ipswich: 15km from the relevant Lendlease MPC project 
• 
Moreton Bay: 15km from the relevant Lendlease MPC project.  
Questions for market participants 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary views about 
relevant markets. In particular, market participants may wish to comment on, and 
specify, for each of the Illawarra, North West Perth, Ipswich and Moreton Bay regions: 
• 
The degree of constraint imposed by other forms of housing, including established 
detached housing, particularly in comparison to the constraint provided by MPC 
project(s), and 
• 
The alternative MPC projects (including the distance (km) and/or adjacent 
suburbs) purchasers are likely to consider when enquiring about or purchasing 
lot(s) in MPC projects as alternatives to Stockland, Supalai and Lendlease 
projects.  
Issue of concern: reduction in competition in the supply of 
residential MPC housing in Illawarra  
53. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is likely to have the effect 
of substantially lessening competition in the market for the supply of residential MPC 
housing in the Illawarra region. As outlined in further detail in the following sections, 
this is because:  


Page 10 of 29 
• 
The proposed acquisition would bring together the two largest MPC housing lot 
offerings in an already highly concentrated market,  
• 
This would increase Stockland’s incentive to raise the price or reduce the supply 
or quality of lots from its Forest Reach MPC, while giving Stockland incentives to 
influence SSRCP’s strategic decisions – for example, by preventing or hindering 
SSRCP from competitively responding to Stockland’s conduct,  
• 
Stockland and Lendlease compete closely on lot size, pricing, and amenity 
quality, and this competitive tension would be lost post-acquisition, 
• 
there are insufficient alternative developers to meaningfully constrain or replace 
the competition likely lost by the proposed acquisition 
• 
barriers to entry are high and new entry or expansion is unlikely to be timely or 
sufficient to strongly constrain Stockland and Supalai, and   
• 
the joint venture between Stockland and Supalai increases the likelihood of 
coordinated conduct.  
Bringing together the two largest MPC suppliers in Illawarra 
54. 
In Illawarra, Stockland’s MPC is Forest Reach and Lendlease’s MPC is Calderwood 
Valley. Supalai does not have an existing MPC in Illawarra.  
55. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition would bring together the two 
largest MPC housing lot offerings in an already highly concentrated market with few 
alternative developers with comparable offerings to the parties. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Page 11 of 29 
Note: This map is approximate only as ACCC has not had access to precise coordinates of the 
relevant MPC locations. 
 
56. 
The ACCC has considered the supply of residential MPC housing based on the 
estimated number of remaining lots from existing and future MPC projects in Illawarra. 
This includes the estimated rate of lot releases at present, up to and including FY26.   
57. 
The ACCC understands Stockland’s Forest Reach and Lendlease’s Calderwood Valley 
are the two largest MPC projects in Illawarra currently in terms of overall remaining 
housing lots and are likely to also be the largest suppliers of MPC housing lots over at 
least FY24-26. Further, the market share of each alternative supplier post-acquisition is 
anticipated to substantially less than the market share of Stockland and SSRCP. 
Stockland and Lendlease are currently close competitors in Illawarra  
58. 
The ACCC is concerned the proposed acquisition would remove Lendlease as 
Stockland’s closest and largest competitor in the Illawarra region.  
59. 
Stockland and Lendlease appear to compete closely in the supply of residential MPC 
housing in Illawarra. Stockland’s MPC project in Huntley (Forest Reach) and 
Lendlease’s MPC project in Calderwood (Calderwood Valley) are geographically close 
(within ~7 km) and are both similarly located near Wollongong CBD, being 
approximately 22-minute and 25-minute drives respectively.  
60. 
The ACCC’s inquiries to date indicate Stockland and Lendlease provide a similar MPC 
offering and compete closely by offering a similar price point and similar range of lot 
sizes, with Stockland’s Forest Reach lot sizes ranging from 300m2-540m2, and 
Lendlease’s Calderwood Valley lot sizes ranging from 255m2-520m2. 
61. 
The ACCC understands Stockland and Lendlease also compete closely on brand 
reputation and quality as large, well-known developers with an established track record. 
This includes both parties having the requisite finance and expertise to invest in MPC 
projects of a size that allow for the provision of high-quality amenities, including 
community parks, village centres, schools, and landscaping.  
62. 
Market feedback further indicates Stockland and Lendlease compete for and attract a 
similar customer demographic including families and first-home buyers, particularly as 
both parties have a strong community offering and affordable price-point range. 
63. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is Stockland and Lendlease compete closely in Illawarra, 
and the proposed acquisition would remove Lendlease as an independent competitor 
to and constraint on Stockland’s Forest Reach development. 
Significant loss of competitive constraint 
64. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition would increase Stockland’s 
incentive to increase the price or reduce the supply or quality of lots from its existing 
MPC holding (Forest Reach). These incentives would arise because Stockland would 
benefit from such actions to some extent, through the resulting increase in the demand 
for and price of SSRCP’s lots at the Calderwood Valley MPC project. The ACCC is 
concerned that an increase in price or a reduction in the supply or quality of 
Stockland’s MPC lots would have the likely effect of a general increase in prices and/or 
lower quality lots for MPC residential housing in the Illawarra region.  


Page 12 of 29 
65. 
In addition, the ACCC is concerned that Stockland would have the ability to influence 
SSRCP’s strategic decisions in a way that may further harm competition. This could 
include preventing or hindering SSRCP from competitively responding to Stockland’s 
conduct in relation to its Forest Reach MPC project through increases in the supply or 
quality of lots from SSRCP’s Calderwood Valley MPC project. This could exacerbate the 
anticompetitive effects of Stockland increasing the price or reducing the supply or 
quality of lots from its Forest Reach project. 
66. 
The ACCC is continuing to consider the extent to which Stockland and Supalai’s joint 
ownership of SSRCP potentially mitigates these concerns by constraining Stockland’s 
ability to hinder SSRCP’s competitive conduct post-acquisition. Similarly, the ACCC is 
continuing to consider the potential impact of project delivery agreements in Illawarra, 
noting that the target Lendlease project may be developed under such arrangements. 
67. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view, however, is that the proposed acquisition is likely to 
involve a significant loss of competitive constraint, leading to higher prices and/or 
lower quality in the supply of MPC lots in the Illawarra region. 
Alternative MPC developers are unlikely to provide significant constraint in Illawarra  
68. 
The ACCC is continuing to consider the extent to which alternative MPC developers in 
the Illawarra region would likely constrain Stockland and SSRCP post-acquisition. The 
ACCC is aware of seven existing alternative developers supplying residential MPC 
housing in Illawarra, and four potential future developers. A number of these alternative 
MPC projects are closer to the parties’ sites, with Lendlease’s Calderwood Valley being 
closer to Allam Property’s Ravenswood project (1.3 km away) and Clover Hill Estate’s 
Clover Hill project (0.25 km away), and Stockland’s Forest Reach being closer to 
Sheargold’s Vista Park project (2.8 km away). 
69. 
However, the ACCC understands that existing alternative MPC developers in the 
Illawarra region may have limited remaining lots and a limited number of annual lot 
releases over at least FY24-26 as compared to the lots associated with the Stockland 
and target Lendlease site. The ACCC is also concerned that these alternative providers 
may be more limited in their ability to provide high-quality amenities and/or deliver 
infrastructure given the size of their land holdings. 
70. 
Market feedback generally indicates that smaller MPC developers do not compete as 
closely with Stockland and Lendlease on brand reputation, and do not invest in 
comparable high-quality amenities. Additionally, the ACCC considers that some MPC 
projects in the Illawarra region are unlikely to be close substitutes to the parties given 
these alternatives may have highly differentiated offerings – for example, a premium 
location, high price point, and distinct product type (for example, supplying apartments 
instead of houses). The ACCC is therefore concerned that there are insufficient 
alternatives available to purchasers in Illawarra. 
71. 
The ACCC understand there is a potential future development in Dapto by Cavi 
Property. The ACCC is seeking to understand the extent to which this development may 
be an alternative to the Calderwood Valley and Forest Reach projects for purchasers, 
and the timing for the Dapto development to occur.  


Page 13 of 29 
72. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that alternative projects are unlikely to provide a 
sufficient degree of constraint on Stockland and SSRCP’s projects post-acquisition in 
the Illawarra region given these alternative projects are limited in number and their 
capacity to supply lots is limited. They also do not appear to be a close substitute in 
terms of the product being offered and the quality of amenities. Further, alternative 
developers do not appear to collectively be large or numerous enough to effectively 
constrain Stockland’s incentive to reduce or slow the supply of lots from its own MPC 
post-acquisition. 
New entry or expansion is unlikely to be timely or sufficient 
73. 
The ACCC is considering whether new entry or expansion would be likely, timely, and 
sufficient to prevent a substantial lessening of competition that might otherwise result 
from the proposed acquisition.  
74. 
Market feedback indicates barriers to entry and expansion in the supply of residential 
MPC housing in the Illawarra region are likely to be high and include: 
• 
delays and difficulties obtaining rezoning approvals from local council, 
• 
limited availability of suitable land and challenging topography due to 
Illawarra’s escarpment, 
• 
delays in the availability of essential infrastructure, including sewer, power 
services, and water (for example, market feedback has indicated sewage 
infrastructure is unlikely to be delivered over the short-medium term), and  
• 
there are likely to be high capital costs to develop MPC projects of a sufficient 
scale to provide for comparable levels of amenity. 
75. 
At this stage, the ACCC considers that barriers to entry and expansion in the Illawarra 
region are high, particularly given the limited availability of suitable land for 
development opportunities of a comparable scale and amenity level, and delays in the 
delivery of essential infrastructure. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the threat of 
new entry or expansion on a scale and of a type sufficient to constrain Stockland and 
SSRCP in Illawarra post-acquisition is unlikely.   
Increased likelihood of coordinated effects  
76. 
The ACCC is considering whether post-acquisition, Stockland and Supalai may have an 
increased opportunity and incentive to coordinate on the pricing, supply or quality of 
their MPC offerings across both the Forest Reach and Calderwood Valley projects to 
increase their combined profits. The ACCC is concerned that post-acquisition, 
Stockland and Supalai may have an increased opportunity and incentive to coordinate 
because: 
• 
post-acquisition, SSRCP and Stockland would collectively have a high market 
share in the Illawarra region, 


Page 14 of 29 
• 
there are few alternative MPC projects, and those which do exist are unlikely to 
have the capacity to respond meaningfully to a reduction in supply or increase in 
price by Stockland and SSRCP, 
• 
the joint venture provides opportunities for Stockland and Supalai to 
communicate pricing and supply intentions both at Forest Reach and Calderwood 
Valley, and through that come to an implicit mutual understanding as to expected 
future lot releases and pricing at both MPC projects. This could involve SSRCP 
raising the price, or reducing the supply or quality of lot releases at its Calderwood 
Valley MPC in expectation of Stockland raising the price, or reducing the supply or 
quality of lot releases at its Forest Reach MPC, and  
• 
there is a high level of transparency over the pricing and supply of MPC lots, such 
that the parties can monitor adherence to or deviations from any implicitly agreed 
conduct. This transparency also enables the parties to respond to any deviations 
by the other party through strategic ‘punishments’, which may simply involve a 
return to competitive conduct in the release and pricing of remaining lots. This 
may contribute to an environment conducive to maintaining any coordination. 
77. 
The ACCC is concerned that any such coordination could result in higher prices and/or 
lower quality for purchasers of MPC lots in Illawarra.  
Questions for market participants 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants regarding the supply of residential 
MPC housing in the Illawarra region. In particular, market participants may wish to 
comment on the following: 
• 
how closely Stockland and Lendlease compete, including on factors such as 
timing, lot size, pricing, customer demographics, and quality, 
• 
the degree of the competitive constraint provided by existing and upcoming 
alternative MPC projects in Illawarra, including factors such as timing, lot size, 
pricing, customer demographics, and quality, and 
• 
the height of barriers to timely entry and expansion for MPC developers in 
Illawarra and the likelihood and timing of new entry/expansion. 
 
 
 
 
 


Page 15 of 29 
Issue that may raise concern: reduction in competition in the 
supply of residential MPC housing in North-West Perth  
78. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition may be likely to have the 
effect of substantially lessening competition in the market for the supply of residential 
MPC housing in the North-West Perth region. 
Bringing together the two largest MPC suppliers in North West Perth 
79. 
The ACCC has considered the supply of residential MPC housing based on the 
estimated number of remaining lots (available for release) for existing and future MPC 
development projects in North West Perth. The ACCC has also considered the 
anticipated lot releases over FY24-26.  
80. In North West Perth, Stockland currently holds MPC projects in Amberton Beach, 
Illyarrie and Mariginiup. The acquisition would bring together two of the developers 
with the largest MPC housing lots in the area by combining Stockland’s existing 
interests in those three projects with its newly acquired interests in two SSRCP MPC 
projects (Alkimos Beach and Alkimos Vista).  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: This map is approximate only as ACCC has not had access to precise coordinates of the 
relevant MPC locations. 
 
 
 
 


Page 16 of 29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: This map is approximate only as ACCC has not had access to precise coordinates of the 
relevant MPC locations. 
 
Stockland and Lendlease are currently close competitors in North West Perth  
81. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition would remove the Lendlease 
projects as an independent competitor to Stockland in North West Perth.  
82. 
The ACCC currently considers that MPC developments in North West Perth consist 
broadly of three local catchment areas, constituting Alkimos, Yanchep and 
Joondalup/Wanneroo (including Mariginiup).  
83. 
Market feedback indicates that Alkimos may be a separate growth area to Yanchep 
and Joondalup/Wanneroo (including Mariginiup), and that developers closely monitor, 
compare and price benchmark competing MPC projects within the local catchment 
area of Alkimos. Alkimos is a coastal suburb of North West Perth, approximately 42km 
north-west of Perth CBD, with beach access arising from close proximity to Alkimos 
Beach and Amberton Beach as well as natural landscapes.  


Page 17 of 29 
84. 
In the Alkimos area, Stockland’s MPC project (Amberton Beach) is located within a 
5km radius of Lendlease’s two MPC projects (Alkimos Beach and Alkimos Vista). The 
Elavale MPC project (which Supalai has an interest in) is also located within 3-5km of 
Lendlease’s MPC projects.  
85. 
The ACCC notes that Stockland and Supalai’s MPC projects appear to compete closely 
with Lendlease’s MPC projects by offering similar-sized lots (~362-375sqm per lot), 
access to key amenities and infrastructure (access to beach, schools and open space) 
and may have comparable pricing on lots.  
86. 
Stockland’s Illyarrie project in Wanneroo is located approximately 18-20km from 
Lendlease’s projects in Alkimos, with smaller 330sqm sized lots and access to open 
space and schools. While Lake Joondalup is nearby and offers lake views, the ACCC 
considers this is distinct from the ‘beachside offering’ in Alkimos. This is supported by 
market feedback and the ACCC’s inquiries to date which suggests that Wanneroo may 
be a different growth area to Alkimos and therefore projects in that growth area do not 
compete closely with Lendlease’s MPC projects in Alkimos.  
87. 
Stockland’s Mariginiup MPC project is a future development located approximately 17-
19km from Lendlease’s projects in Alkimos. Mariginiup is a further 5km north of 
Illyarrie. While the lot sizes are similar (375sqm), the area appears to provide an ‘inland 
suburbia’ offering, with no beach access. This is similarly supported by market 
feedback and the ACCC inquiries to date which suggests that Mariginiup may be a 
different growth area to Alkimos and therefore projects in Mariginiup do not compete 
closely with Lendlease’s MPC projects in Alkimos.  
Significant loss of competitive constraint  
88. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition may increase Stockland’s 
incentive to increase the price or reduce the supply or quality of lots from its Amberton 
Beach MPC and its other MPC projects in the region. This is because Stockland would, 
to a certain extent, directly benefit from such actions through the resulting increase in 
the demand for and price of SSRCP’s lots at the Alkimos Beach and Alkimos Vista MPC 
projects, which are within a 5km radius of Stockland’s existing Amberton Beach 
project.  
89. 
The ACCC is concerned that an increase in the price or reduction in the supply or 
quality of lots from Stockland’s MPC projects may have the effect of generally higher 
prices and/or lower quality for MPC residential housing in North West Perth, 
particularly around Alkimos. 
90. 
In addition, the ACCC is concerned that Stockland would be able to influence SSRCP’s 
strategic decisions in a way that may further harm competition. This influence could 
enable Stockland to prevent or hinder SSRCP from competitively responding to 
Stockland’s conduct by increasing the supply or quality of lots from SSRCP’s Alkimos 
Beach and Alkimos Vista MPC projects. This influence over strategic decisions could 
exacerbate the anticompetitive effects of Stockland increasing the price or reducing 
the supply or quality of lots from its Amberton Beach project.  


Page 18 of 29 
91. 
The ACCC is continuing to consider the extent to which Supalai’s joint ownership of 
SSRCP potentially mitigates these concerns by constraining Stockland’s ability to 
hinder SSRCP’s competitive conduct post-acquisition. Similarly, the ACCC is continuing 
considering the potential impact of project delivery agreements in North West Perth, 
noting that the target Lendlease projects are being developed in partnership with 
DevelopmentWA. 
92. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view, however, is that the proposed acquisition is likely to 
involve a significant loss of competitive constraint, leading to higher prices and/or 
lower quality in the supply of MPC lots in North West Perth, particularly around 
Alkimos. 
Alternative developers may not provide significant constraint 
93. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that MPC projects in Joondalup/Wanneroo (including 
Mariginiup) do not provide purchasers with comparable offerings to Stockland and 
Lendlease projects in Alkimos, as they are located approximately 15-20km away and 
may provide access to different amenities and value propositions, as distinct from the 
‘beachside offering’ supplied by Stockland and Lendlease in Alkimos. 
94. 
Market feedback and the ACCC’s inquiries indicate that developers may monitor 
competing developments within a 5km radius, and therefore that alternative developers 
outside of Alkimos may not provide a comparable offering.  
95. 
The ACCC recognises there are alternative developers that hold large existing MPC 
projects in Alkimos – including Satterley’s Eden Beach (1-4km away), LWP’s Trinity (1-
3km away), Satterley’s Allara (3-6km away) and Cedar Wood’s Eglinton Village (4-6km 
away). However, the ACCC is concerned that lot releases for each of the projects at 
least up to and including FY26 and potentially beyond may not effectively constrain 
Stockland post-acquisition.  
96. 
Further, while there are other alternative MPC developments in North West Perth, the 
ACCC is concerned these may not be comparable offerings to Stockland and 
Lendlease’s projects. In addition, the ACCC understands there are significant 
differences between MPC offerings in Alkimos and other areas of North West Perth, 
with MPC projects in Alkimos commanding a price premium as compared to MPC 
projects in other areas including Yanchep due to Alkimos’ proximity to the beach, city 
and social amenities including retail and medical facilities.  
97. 
Our preliminary view is that alternative developers in Alkimos may not effectively 
constrain Stockland and Supalai post-acquisition, particularly up to and including FY26 
and potentially beyond. 
New entry or expansion is unlikely to be timely or sufficient 
98. 
The ACCC is considering whether new entry or expansion would be likely, timely, and 
sufficient to prevent a substantial lessening of competition that might otherwise result 
from the proposed acquisition.  


Page 19 of 29 
99. 
The ACCC considers that the barriers to timely entry and expansion in the supply of 
residential MPC housing in the North West Perth market may be high given the 
following factors:  
 
• there may be a lack of suitable land available 
• there are likely to be high capital costs to develop MPC projects of a sufficient 
scale to provide for comparable levels of amenity and 
• there may be long lead times and infrastructure requirements affecting existing 
and future lot releases. 
100. The ACCC's preliminary view is that the threat of new and timely entry or expansion on 
a scale and of a type sufficient to constraint Stockland and Supalai post-acquisition 
may be unlikely.   
 
Increased likelihood of co-ordinated effects 
101. The ACCC is considering whether the proposed acquisition increases the likelihood of 
coordination between Stockland, Supalai and Peet on the pricing, supply or quality of 
their MPC lots to increase their combined profits.  
102. In North West Perth, Supalai has an interest in a joint venture in the Elavale MPC project 
(in respect of which Peet Limited is also a development partner), which is 3-5km from 
the Lendlease target MPC projects. Peet Limited also operates three other MPC 
projects in North West Perth – Shorehaven, Yanchep Golf Estate and Burns Beach, 
respectively located 0-3km, 6-9km and 12-14km from the Lendlease target MPC 
projects. The ACCC is considering the extent to which the proposed acquisition by 
SSRCP would result in an increased risk of coordination in the pricing, supply or quality 
of MPC lots, taking into account these existing interests.  
103. Co-ordination undermines competitive activity, and the proposed acquisition may have 
the likely effect of substantially lessening competition in North West Perth, and in 
particular in Alkimos, if it incentivises co-ordination between Supalai and its joint 
venture partners. 
104. Specifically, the ACCC is concerned that the SSRCP joint venture provides opportunities 
for Stockland and Supalai to communicate pricing and supply intentions at both 
Stockland’s and SSRCP’s MPC projects, and through that may come to an implicit 
mutual understanding as to expected future lot release and pricing conduct at both 
their MPC projects. Such conduct could involve SSRCP raising the price, or reducing 
the supply or quality of lot releases at its MPC projects in expectation of Stockland 
reducing or slowing lot releases at its MPC projects.  
105. Further, the ACCC is concerned that any coordination between Supalai and Stockland 
through SSRCP could flow on to Supalai’s relationship with Peet through their Elavale 
joint venture MPC and from there extend to Peet’s own MPC projects at Shorehaven, 
Yanchep Golf Estate and Burns Beach. The proposed acquisition may increase the risk 
that Stockland, Supalai and Peet act in accordance with an implicit mutual 
understanding to raise prices, restrict supply, or lower quality across all the MPC 
projects in which they hold interests. 


Page 20 of 29 
106. As set out above in paragraph 76, there is a high level of transparency over the pricing 
and supply of MPC lots, such that the developers could monitor adherence to or 
deviations from implicitly agreed conduct and respond by ‘punishing’ any deviations. 
Questions for market participants  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants regarding the supply of residential 
MPC housing in the North West Perth region. In particular, market participants may wish to 
comment  on the following:  
• 
How closely Stockland and Lendlease compete, including on factors such as timing, 
lot size, pricing, customer demographics and quality, 
• 
The degree of competitive constraint provided by existing and upcoming alternative 
MPC projects in North West Perth, including on factors such as timing, lot size, 
pricing, customer demographics and quality,  
• 
The height of the barriers to timely entry and expansion for MPC developers in 
Ipswich and the likelihood and timing of new entry or expansion, and  
• 
Whether Supalai’s interests in the Elavale MPC project is likely to increase the risk of 
co-ordination involving Peet.  
 
Issue that may raise concern: reduction in competition in the 
supply of residential MPC housing in Ipswich  
107. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition may be likely to have the 
effect of substantially lessening competition in the market for the supply of residential 
MPC housing in Ipswich.  
 
Bringing together the two largest MPC suppliers in Ipswich 
108. The ACCC understands Stockland is the largest developer in Ipswich in terms of 
remaining supply of housing lots across its Kalina and Providence MPC projects, and 
future Botanica development. Post-acquisition, Stockland would, via SSRCP, acquire 
Lendlease’s Springfield Rise project, which is the largest and most established MPC in 
the region. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Page 21 of 29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: This map is approximate only as ACCC has not had access to precise coordinates of the 
relevant MPC locations. 
 
 
Stockland and Lendlease are currently close competitors  
109. The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition would remove Lendlease as an 
independent competitor to Stockland.  
110. In Ipswich, Stockland’s Kalina and Providence MPC projects are located 4.4km and 
7.7km respectively from Lendlease’s Springfield Rise project. Stockland’s Botanica is 
further west from Lendlease’s Springfield Rise Project (11.9km away), however each of 
these projects are approximately 40 minutes' drive from Brisbane CBD.  
111. In Springfield specifically, Stockland’s Kalina and Lendlease’s Springfield Rise are the 
only existing MPC projects available to purchasers. The ACCC understands this is 
unlikely to change as Stockland and Lendlease have long-standing agreements in place 
with the landowners in Springfield. The ACCC considers that Stockland’s Kalina may 
compete closely with Springfield Rise by offering similar sized lots (approximately 375-
409sqm) and similar access to amenities and infrastructure (approximately 6-7 
minutes' drive to Springfield Central train station).  


Page 22 of 29 
112. Market feedback indicates the target customer demographic is likely to be similar in 
targeting first-home buyers, who are attracted to affordable offerings and access to 
amenities.  
113. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that Stockland and Lendlease compete closely, and 
that Lendlease’s Springfield Rise project provides significant constraint on Stockland 
through its project maturity, pricing, lot size and amenity quality. The ACCC is 
concerned that there may be a loss of competition post-acquisition through the 
removal of Lendlease as a close and vigorous competitor to Stockland.  
Significant loss in competitive constraint  
114. The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition may increase Stockland’s 
incentive to increase the price, or reduce the supply or quality of lots, from its existing 
Kalina and Providence MPC projects, and its future Botanica project. This is because 
Stockland would, to a certain extent, benefit from such actions due to the resulting 
increase in the demand for and price of SSRCP’s Springfield Rise lots. Post-acquisition, 
the ACCC is concerned that an increase in price, or a reduction in the supply or quality 
of Stockland’s MPC lots may increase prices and/or lower quality more generally for 
MPC residential housing in Ipswich. 
115. In addition, the ACCC is concerned that Stockland would be able to influence SSRCP’s 
strategic decisions in a way that may further harm competition. This could include 
preventing or hindering SSRCP from competitively responding to Stockland’s conduct 
by increasing the supply or quality of lots from SSRCP’s Springfield Rise project. 
Stockland’s influence over strategic decisions at SSRCP could exacerbate the 
anticompetitive effects of Stockland increasing the price or reducing the supply or 
quality of lots from its own MPC projects.  
116. The ACCC is continuing to consider the extent to which Supalai’s joint ownership of 
SSRCP potentially mitigates competition concerns by constraining Stockland’s ability 
to hinder SSRCP’s competitive conduct post-acquisition. Similarly, the ACCC is 
continuing to consider the potential impact of project delivery agreements in Ipswich, 
noting that the target Lendlease projects are being developed in partnership with 
Springfield City Group. 
117. The ACCC’s preliminary view, however, is that the proposed acquisition may involve a 
significant loss of competitive constraint, leading to higher prices and/or lower quality 
in the supply of MPC lots in the Ipswich region.  
Alternative developers may not provide significant constraint  
118. The ACCC is continuing to consider the extent to which alternative MPC developers in 
Ipswich will constrain Stockland and SSRCP post-acquisition. 
119. The ACCC is aware that there are several alternative MPC projects in the Ipswich 
region, including Intrapac’s White Rock (4.8km away), SIG Group’s Amory (9km away), 
Goldfields Property Group’s Hayfield (10.1km away), Satterley Property Group’s Ripley 
Valley (10.2km away) and HB Land’s Bellevue (11.4km away).  
120. In Springfield, where Stockland and Lendlease have MPC projects, the ACCC 
understands that there are no other current MPC projects available, with a future 


Page 23 of 29 
Springfield development (Cherish Enterprises) expected to commence lot releases over 
the medium term. However, the ACCC understands that Stockland may have 
commercial arrangements with Cherish Enterprises, including pre-emptive rights to buy 
and develop some, or all, of Cherish Enterprises’ land holdings in Springfield.  
121. The ACCC is concerned that alternative MPC projects may not effectively constrain 
Stockland and SSRCP post-acquisition due to potential differences in their MPC 
offerings. The ACCC is continuing to consider the extent to which MPC developments 
outside of Springfield are substitutes for consumers (i.e., the distance from Springfield 
Rise in which consumers are likely to consider alternative MPC projects). 
New entry or expansion is unlikely to be timely or sufficient 
122. The ACCC understands from market feedback and its inquiries that the supply of 
residential MPC housing in Ipswich is impacted by the following factors:  
• 
increased environmental scrutiny, particularly due to koala conservation and 
vegetation management in Ipswich (including compliance with the Environment 
Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Act 1999),  
• 
there may be a lack of suitable land available, 
• 
delays and difficulties obtaining rezoning approvals from local council, and   
• 
there are likely to be high capital costs to develop MPC projects of a sufficient 
scale to offer comparable levels of amenity. 
123. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that barriers to entry and expansion in Ipswich may be 
high and that the threat of new entry or expansion in a timely manner, and of a scale or 
quality sufficient to constrain Stockland and SSRCP post-acquisition may be unlikely. 
Increased likelihood of co-ordinated effects  
124. The ACCC is considering whether post-acquisition, Stockland and Supalai may have an 
increased opportunity and incentive to co-ordinate on the pricing, supply, and quality of 
their overall lots at Springfield Rise and Stockland’s existing and future MPC projects to 
increase their combined profits. The ACCC is concerned that any such coordination 
could result in higher prices and/or lower quality for purchasers of MPC lots in Ipswich. 


Page 24 of 29 
Questions for market participants  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants regarding the supply of residential MPC 
housing in the Ipswich region. In particular, market participants may wish to comment on the 
following:  
• 
How closely Stockland’s MPC projects and Lendlease’s Springfield Rise project 
compete, including on factors such as timing, lot size, pricing, customer demographics 
and quality,  
• 
The degree of competitive constraint provided by existing and upcoming alternative 
MPC projects, including on factors such as timing, lot size, pricing, customer 
demographics and quality, and 
• 
The height of the barriers to timely entry and expansion for MPC developers in Ipswich 
and the likelihood and timing of new entry or expansion. 
Issue that may raise concern: reduction in competition in the 
supply of residential MPC housing in Moreton Bay  
125. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition may be likely to have the 
effect of substantially lessening competition in the supply of residential MPC housing 
in Moreton Bay. 
Bringing together the two largest MPC suppliers in Moreton Bay  
 
126. The ACCC understands Lendlease’s newly commenced Kinma Valley project is the 
largest existing MPC development in Moreton Bay based on estimated remaining lots. 
Stockland is developing two projects in the region - its existing Newport MPC project 
and a Caboolture West MPC project that is yet to begin to release lots. The ACCC 
understands Caboolture West may be the second largest MPC project after Kinma 
Valley based on estimated remaining lots. Supalai is also present in the region with an 
interest in the Ridgeview MPC project (in respect of which the Satterley Property Group 
is also a development partner).  


Page 25 of 29 
 
Note: This map is approximate only as ACCC has not had access to precise coordinates of the 
relevant MPC locations. 
 
Stockland’s Caboolture West and Lendlease’s Kinma Valley projects are likely to be close 
competitors  
 
127. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that Lendlease’s Kinma Valley MPC is unlikely to 
compete closely with Stockland’s Newport MPC as market feedback indicates the 
projects have different target demographics, with Newport providing a waterfront 
location with a premium offering, as distinct from Kinma Valley that provides a more 
affordable price point and appeals to families. 
128. The ACCC understands that Kinma Valley is more likely to compete with proximate 
MPC projects located in suburbs with similar topography, such as Morayfield, 
Narangba, Burpengary East, and Upper Caboolture, which are within a 15km radius. The 
ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition may remove future competition 
between Stockland’s future Caboolture West project and Lendlease’s Kinma Valley 
(7.2km away). While market feedback indicates Caboolture West may be impacted by 
delays with infrastructure and approvals, the ACCC expects Stockland and Lendlease 
are likely to compete closely once Caboolture West begins releasing lots as they are 
large developers capable of providing affordable lots and high-quality amenities, 
including community spaces and schools that appeal to similar customer segments.  
 


Page 26 of 29 
129. The ACCC considers Ridgeview and Kinma Valley may compete closely given their 
proximity (2km away), similar sized lots (396 and 405sqm), and amenities (open space, 
schools and connections to trains). However, the ACCC understands that Ridgeview is 
nearing completion so may only compete with Kinma Valley in the short term. 
Significant loss of competitive constraint 
 
130. The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition may increase Stockland’s 
incentive to increase the price or reduce the supply or quality of lots from its future 
MPC project in Caboolture West. This is because Stockland would, to a certain extent, 
benefit from such actions due to the resulting increase in the demand for, and price of, 
SSRCP’s Kinma Valley lots. Post-acquisition, the ACCC is concerned that a reduction in 
the supply or quality of Stockland’s MPC lots may increase prices and/or lower quality 
for MPC residential housing more generally in Moreton Bay.  
131. In addition, the ACCC is concerned that Stockland would be able to influence SSRCP’s 
strategic decisions in a way that may further harm competition. For example, Stockland 
could prevent or hinder SSRCP from responding competitively to Stockland’s conduct 
in relation to its Caboolture West MPC project. This could include Stockland seeking to 
block increases in the supply or quality of lots from SSRCP’s Kinma Valley project. 
Stockland’s influence over strategic decisions at SSRCP could exacerbate the 
anticompetitive effects of Stockland increasing the price or reducing the supply or 
quality of lots at its Caboolture West project.  
132. The ACCC is continuing to consider the extent to which Supalai’s joint ownership of 
SSRCP potentially mitigates competition concerns by constraining Stockland’s ability 
to hinder SSRCP’s competitive conduct post-acquisition.  
133. The ACCC’s preliminary view, however, is that the proposed acquisition may involve a 
significant loss of competitive constraint, leading to higher prices and/or lower quality 
in the supply of MPC lots in Moreton Bay.  
 
Alternative developers may not provide significant constraint  
 
134. The ACCC is concerned that alternative MPC projects in the Moreton Bay region may 
not provide a sufficient constraint on Stockland post-acquisition as they are 
predominantly small to mid-tier developments that may not provide the same level of 
amenity or overall quality as Kinma Valley and Caboolture West, which may be strongly 
valued by certain customer demographics. 
135. The ACCC understands that land holdings in Moreton Bay are relatively fragmented, 
and for this reason the market is characterised by many small to mid-tier MPC 
developers and projects. The ACCC recognises there are numerous alternative MPC 
projects within a 15km radius of Lendlease’s Kinma Valley project, including Oxmar 
Properties’ Narangba Heights (1km away), Trask Development Corporation’s Affinity 
(3.7km away), Cedar Woods’ Sage (4.5km away), Orchard Property Group’s Narangba 
(4.9km away), Dahua’s Amity (5.4km away), Lennium Group’s Lilywood Landings 
(7.3km away), Peet Limited’s Riverbank (9.1km away), Port Binnli’s North Harbour 
(9.2km away) and Qm Properties’ Central Springs (11.2km away).  
 


Page 27 of 29 
136. However, the ACCC concerned that at least some of these developments may not 
compete closely with the parties on reputation and may not be sufficiently large to 
offer access to high quality amenities (such as open space and infrastructure) 
provided by Stockland and Lendlease as large developers.   
137. The ACCC understand there are potential future developments in Moreton Bay, 
including Pine Valley North by Tosh Murphy, a development at Elimbah by unknown 
developers and several smaller developments in the Upper Caboolture area. The ACCC 
is seeking to understand the extent to which these developments may be alternatives 
to the Kinma Valley and Caboolture West projects for consumers, and the timing for 
this to occur.  
New entry or expansion is unlikely to be timely or sufficient 
 
138. The ACCC’s inquiries indicates that barriers to timely entry and expansion in Moreton 
Bay are likely to be relatively high and include: 
• 
increased environmental scrutiny, including flooding, koala, and vegetation approvals  
• 
there are likely to be high capital costs to develop MPC projects of a sufficient scale 
to provide for comparable levels of amenity, 
• 
limited land suitable for large scale development, and  
• 
long lead times for development approvals and the delivery of essential services.  
Increased likelihood of coordinated effects 
 
139. The ACCC is considering whether, post-acquisition, Stockland and Supalai may have an 
increased opportunity and incentive to co-ordinate on the pricing, supply, or quality of 
their overall lots at Kinma Valley and Caboolture West to increase their combined 
profits. The ACCC is concerned that any such coordination could result in higher prices 
and/or lower quality for purchasers of MPC lots in Moreton Bay. 
Questions for market participants 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants regarding the supply of residential 
MPC housing in the Moreton Bay region. In particular, market participants may wish to 
comment on the following:  
• 
How closely Stockland’s Caboolture West and Lendlease’s Kinma Valley MPC 
projects compete, including on factors such as timing, lot size, pricing, customer 
demographics and quality of amenities,  
• 
The height of the barriers to timely entry and expansion for MPC developers in 
Ipswich and the likelihood and timing of new entry or expansion  
• 
The degree of competitive constraint provided by existing and upcoming alternative 
MPC projects in Moreton Bay, including factors such as timing, lot size, pricing, 
customer demographics and quality.  
 


Page 28 of 29 
Issue unlikely to raise concerns: reduction in competition in the 
supply of residential MPC housing in 7 local areas 
 
140. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is not likely to have the 
effect of substantially lessening competition in the other geographic areas in which the 
Lendlease target MPC projects are located, including the supply of residential MPC 
housing in the following 7 local areas:3 
• 
South-West Sydney, NSW 
• 
Redlands, QLD 
• 
Logan, QLD 
• 
Melton, VIC 
• 
Whittlesea, VIC 
• 
Casey/Cardinia, VIC 
• 
Wyndham, VIC 
141. Market participants have largely not identified concerns with the proposed acquisition 
in relation to the supply of residential MPC housing in these local areas. Additionally, 
the ACCC’s inquiries indicate that in each of these 7 local regions there is limited-to-no 
overlap between Stockland and/or Supalai and Lendlease, sufficient alternative MPC 
developers available to effectively constrain Stockland and SSRCP, and/or low 
combined market shares. 
 Issue unlikely to raise concerns: acquisition of land 
 
142. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is not likely to have the 
effect of substantially lessening competition in any market for the acquisition of land 
(or development rights pursuant to a project development agreement) for residential 
development, whether on a national, state, or regional basis. The ACCC has not 
reached a concluded view on the geographic scope of the market but does not 
consider it is necessary to do so for the purposes of its competition assessment. 
143. Market participants raised concerns that it is difficult for smaller developers to 
compete for land and that the proposed acquisition may strengthen Stockland’s ability 
to compete for land suitable for large scale development. However, further market 
feedback has indicated that the acquisition of land is generally highly competitive with 
numerous large and small developers actively seeking landholdings, particularly as 
opportunities to acquire new land suitable for MPC development is limited.  
144. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that several large and small developers would continue 
to constrain Stockland and the proposed acquisition is not likely to have the effect of 
 
 
3  
This Statement of Issues refers to 11 local areas of interest (seven of which are unlikely to raise concerns). 
While SSRCP is proposing to acquire 12 Lendlease MPC projects, two of these are within North-West Perth.  


Page 29 of 29 
substantially lessening competition in any market for the acquisition of land for 
residential development, regardless of whether it is a national, state, or regional 
market.  
Issue unlikely to raise concerns: procurement of building and 
construction services 
145. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is not likely to have the 
effect of substantially lessening competition in any market for the procurement of 
building and construction services for MPC developments, whether on a national, state, 
or regional basis. The ACCC has not reached a concluded view on the geographic 
scope of the market but does not consider it is necessary to do so for the purposes of 
its competition assessment. 
146. Market participants have not raised strong concerns and indicated that Stockland and 
Lendlease do not typically procure residential building services, with purchasers being 
more likely to separately procure building and construction services (including as part 
of a ‘house and land’ package). Additionally, the ACCC understands that Stockland and 
Lendlease account for a small proportion of demand for the procurement of civil works 
construction services for MPC development (e.g., roads, sewage, water, public parks) 
and suppliers may have a large degree of bargaining power. 
ACCC's future steps 
147. As noted above, the ACCC invites submissions from market participants on each of the 
issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that may be 
relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. Submissions should be emailed to 
mergers@accc.gov.au by no later than 5.00pm (AEST) on 18 July 2024. 
148. The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions invited by 
this Statement of Issues. 
149. The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 12 September 2024. However 
the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Informal Merger Review Process 
Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment explaining the ACCC's final view may be 
published following the ACCC's public announcement. 
