 
Page 1 of 6 
 
Public Competition Assessment 
9 February 2026 
Elders - proposed acquisition of Delta Agribusiness  
 
The ACCC’s decision 
1. 
On 9 October 2025 the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission 
announced its decision not to oppose the proposed acquisition by Elders Limited 
(Elders) of 100% of the shares in Delta Agribusiness Pty Ltd (Delta) 
(the proposed acquisition) after accepting a section 87B undertaking from 
Elders (the Undertaking). 
2. 
Pursuant to the Undertaking, Elders is required to divest six rural merchandise 
stores in Western Australia to ACCC-approved purchasers. The ACCC has 
approved E.E. Muir & Sons Pty Limited (Muirs) as purchaser of stores in Albany, 
Hyden, Manypeaks and Wellstead; and Independent Rural Pty Ltd 
(Independent Rural) for stores in Dalwallinu and Kalannie. 
3. 
The ACCC considers that the proposed acquisition, taking into account the 
Undertaking, is unlikely to contravene section 50 of the Competition and 
Consumer Act 2010 (the Act). Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that would have 
the effect, or would be likely to have the effect, of substantially lessening 
competition in any market. 
4. 
This Public Competition Assessment outlines reasons for the decision by the 
ACCC not to oppose the proposed acquisition, taking into account the 
Undertaking.  
5. 
The ACCC’s decision in respect of the proposed acquisition followed an informal 
public review by the ACCC and was made prior to 1 January 2026 when the  
mandatory merger control regime commenced.  


 
Page 2 of 6 
6. 
Similar to previous ACCC public competition assessments, this public 
competition assessment is subject to the following qualifications: 
▪ 
The ACCC considers each transaction on a case-by-case basis, so the 
analysis and decision outlined in one assessment will not necessarily 
reflect the ACCC’s view of another transaction. 
▪ 
As assessments are relatively brief and do not refer to confidential 
information, assessments do not necessarily set out all of the issues and 
information considered by the ACCC.  
The parties 
The acquirer: Elders 
7. 
Elders is an ASX-listed agribusiness supplying rural merchandise as well as a 
range of livestock and wool agency, real estate, finance, and feed and 
processing services across Australia. 
8. 
Elders supplies rural merchandise to agricultural producers and corporate farm 
customers through its 246 Elders-owned retail stores.  
9. 
Elders also operates a national wholesale business called Australian 
Independent Rural Retailers (AIRR). AIRR supplies rural merchandise on a 
wholesale basis to independently owned AIRR-member retailers and non-
member retailers through Elders-owned AIRR warehouses and online channels 
across Australia. 
The target: Delta 
10. Delta is an Australian agribusiness supplying rural merchandise as well as a 
range of farm consultancy and production agronomy services, grain marketing 
services and livestock agency services. Delta also provides access to real estate 
and finance services through referral agreements with a real estate agency and 
a bank.  
11. Delta operates 64 retail stores, primarily in regional areas of New South Wales, 
Victoria, South Australia and Western Australia. 
12. In Western Australia, Delta also supplies rural merchandise to independent 
retailers through its wholesale business, Delta WA. It has approximately 40 
independent wholesale customers 
Market inquiries 
13. The ACCC conducted market inquiries with a range of industry participants, 
including farmers, competing retailers, wholesale suppliers, buying groups, 
industry bodies and other interested parties.  
Statement of Issues 
14. On 29 May 2025, the ACCC released a Statement of Issues (SOI) identifying 
preliminary concerns that the proposed acquisition could lead to a loss of 
competition in the supply of rural merchandise. 


 
Page 3 of 6 
15. The SOI outlined the ACCC’s preliminary view that the proposed acquisition 
would be likely to substantially lessen competition in the retail supply of rural 
merchandise and related agronomy services in 6 local areas. 
16. The SOI also noted the ACCC’s preliminary views that the proposed acquisition 
may also substantially lessen competition in the: 
▪ 
retail supply of rural merchandise and related agronomy services in certain 
other local markets 
▪ 
retail supply of rural merchandise and related agronomy services at a 
broader (regional, state or national) level 
▪ 
wholesale supply of rural merchandise in Western Australia. 
Industry background 
17. Rural merchandise is an umbrella term for agricultural products purchased by 
farmers as inputs into operating a farm. Rural merchandise may be split into five 
broad product categories: 
▪ 
agricultural chemicals 
▪ 
seed 
▪ 
fertiliser 
▪ 
animal health and nutrition products 
▪ 
other general rural merchandise.  
18. Rural merchandise stores may offer a full-service offering covering all of these 
categories, or offer a subset of categories/products. Some suppliers operate a 
direct-to-farmer model with no physical retail store.  
19. The offering of rural merchandise retailers may be different depending on the 
types of farming in the local areas. For example: in an area that is primarily 
broadacre cropping, fertiliser and agricultural chemicals are particularly relevant 
to the customer base. 
20. Customers may interact with rural merchandise retailers by attending stores in 
person, or by placing orders by phone or online. Rural merchandise retailers will 
often offer delivery-to-farm, with the cost of freight absorbed into the product 
price. 
Agronomy services 
21. In addition to rural merchandise products, rural merchandise retailers may also 
offer agronomy services. Agronomy services refers to advice, provided by 
qualified agronomists, aimed at optimising crop production and farm 
management including soil analysis, crop planning, pest and disease 
management and nutrient management. 
22. The ACCC understands that experienced agronomists can be highly valuable to 
suppliers of rural merchandise. 
23. The range of agronomic services varies from store to store, as well as between 
regions. For example, the ACCC understands that rural merchandise retailers 


 
Page 4 of 6 
are less likely to offer ‘fee-for-service’ agronomic advice in Western Australia 
stores, as farmers there are more likely to engage external, independent, 
agronomic consultants. 
Wholesale services 
24. Rural merchandise retailers acquire their products through three main channels: 
▪ 
conventional wholesalers (such as Elders-owned AIRR and Delta WA)  
▪ 
member-based buying groups that engage with manufacturers/suppliers on 
behalf of member stores  
▪ 
direct from the manufacturer.  
25. A rural merchandise store might purchase its stock through a combination of 
these channels.  
Competition analysis 
26. The proposed acquisition combines two of the larger rural merchandise 
businesses in Australia. Elders has 246 retail stores nationwide, and Delta has 
64 retail stores primarily in regional areas of New South Wales, Victoria, South 
Australia and Western Australia. Both Elders and Delta also offer wholesale 
supply of rural merchandise in Western Australia. 
27. The ACCC considered competition effects in the:  
▪ 
retail supply of rural merchandise in local areas 
▪ 
retail supply of rural merchandise in a broader (regional, state or national 
level) area 
▪ 
wholesale supply of rural merchandise in Western Australia 
 
Competition analysis – retail supply of rural merchandise in local areas 
28. The ACCC considers that Elders and Delta are close competitors in the retail 
supply of rural merchandise and related agronomy services across Australia. In 
some local areas, the proposed acquisition would have removed competition 
between the parties’ stores and left few remaining competitors to effectively 
constrain the merged-entity.  
29. In analysing each of the local areas where Elders and Delta stores were both 
present, the ACCC considered the geographic bounds of each local area. 
30. The majority of customers the ACCC consulted in most areas said they would 
travel up to 50km or, in some cases, as far as 100 km for rural merchandise, with 
many rural merchandise retailers providing a similar bound for their delivery 
radius. However, the typical distance travelled varies significantly between 
regions and was affected by local area-specific factors. This includes the 
geography and remoteness of the area, the size of the relevant town (including 
regional centres) in which a store is based, and the specific characteristics of 
farms in the local area such as the physical size of farms and the typical mix of 
agriculture.  


 
Page 5 of 6 
31. Accordingly, the geographic boundaries of each relevant local area varied in 
each case. 
32. For each local area of overlap, the ACCC considered:  
▪ 
how closely the Elders and Delta stores compete in the relevant area 
▪ 
the number of remaining competitors and how closely they compete with 
the Elder and Delta stores (including the constraint provided by specialist 
rural merchandise retailers and retailers who were further than 50 kms 
away) 
▪ 
the likelihood of timely and sufficient new entry.  
33. Based on this analysis, the ACCC was concerned that the proposed acquisition 
would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of substantially lessening 
competition in the retail supply of rural merchandise and related services in the 
following local areas in Western Australia: 
▪ 
Hyden and the surrounding areas 
▪ 
Albany, Wellstead, Manypeaks and the surrounding areas (the City of 
Albany) 
▪ 
Dalwallinu and the surrounding areas. 
34. In each of these areas, the proposed acquisition would remove a close 
competitor and there would not be sufficient remaining competing retailers to 
constrain Elders. It is also unlikely that there would be timely and sufficient new 
entry by rival retailers to constrain Elders. 
Competition analysis – retail supply of rural merchandise at a broader 
level 
35. The ACCC also considered the extent to which Elders and Delta compete at a 
regional, state or national level, as part of its assessment. 
36. The ACCC considers that there are some forms of competition that occur at a 
broader rather than local level between rural merchandise retail chains (for 
example, large retail chains appear to compete at a broader level in the supply of 
private label products).  
37. However, in contrast to certain other retail sectors, the nature of competition in 
the retail supply of rural merchandise is largely localised. This reflects 
differences in farm type, farm size and conditions in different local areas, and the 
importance to customers of local relationships with their rural merchandise 
suppliers and staff. Unlike certain other retail sectors, rural merchandise retail 
chains focus less on standardising (at a national, state or regional level) key 
elements of their retail offering such as store layout, pricing and product range.  
38. Accordingly, the ACCC considers the proposed acquisition is unlikely to 
substantially lessen competition in the retail supply of rural merchandise at a 
broader regional, state or national level. 


 
Page 6 of 6 
Competition analysis – wholesale supply of rural merchandise in Western 
Australia 
39. The ACCC considered whether the proposed acquisition would, or would be 
likely to, substantially lessen competition by removing a wholesaler of rural 
merchandise in Western Australia.  
40. The ACCC considers that, at a wholesale level in Western Australia, there would 
remain sufficient constraint on the merged entity notwithstanding the removal of 
Delta as an independent wholesale competitor.  
41. In particular, the ACCC considers that rural merchandise retailers in Western 
Australia would have sufficient alternatives for supply, including via direct supply 
arrangements with manufacturers, and via membership of buying groups. 
42. Accordingly, the ACCC does not consider that the proposed acquisition would 
have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of substantially lessening 
competition in the wholesale supply of rural merchandise in Western Australia. 
Undertakings 
43. To address the ACCC’s competition concerns about the likely effect of the 
proposed acquisition in some local areas, Elders offered the Undertaking to 
divest 6 Delta stores in WA to ACCC-approved purchasers.  
44. Elders proposed, and the ACCC approved, Muirs as the purchaser of stores in 
Albany, Hyden, Manypeaks and Wellstead, and Independent Rural as the 
purchaser of stores in Dalwallinu and Kalannie.  
45. The ACCC approved Muirs and Independent Rural as purchasers at the same 
time the Undertaking was accepted, after giving consideration to a number of 
factors. These factors included previous and current experience in Australian 
rural merchandise retailing, financial capability, and plans to maintain and 
operate the stores. 
46. The ACCC considers that the Undertaking addresses its competition concerns 
with the proposed acquisition. This is because acquisition of the stores by 
ACCC-approved purchasers will replace the competition in the retail supply of 
rural merchandise that would otherwise have been lost in the relevant local 
areas as a result of the proposed acquisition. 
47. A copy of the Undertaking is available on the ACCC public informal merger 
reviews register and section 87B undertakings register. 
Conclusion 
48. Based on the above analysis, the ACCC concluded that the proposed acquisition 
of Delta by Elders, taking into account the Undertaking, would not have the 
effect, or be likely to have the effect, of substantially lessening competition in any 
market. 
