 
 
 
Land of the Ngunnawal people
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
Tel 02 6243 1111 
Fax 02 6243 1199
www.accc.gov.au
Our ref: 
IM-72793 
16 December 2024 
 
Dear interested party, 
 
Re: ACCC seeking your views: Elders Limited acquisition of Delta Agribusiness  
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
the proposed acquisition of Delta Agribusiness (Delta) by Elders Limited (Elders) 
(the proposed acquisition). 
Elders and Delta supply a range of rural merchandise and associated products and services. 
Further details are in Attachment A.  
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact on competition of the proposed 
acquisition. In particular, we are seeking your views on the likely impact on prices and 
service quality in the:  
• 
retail supply of rural merchandise (fertiliser, crop protection products, seed, animal 
health products and other miscellaneous merchandise), 
• 
wholesale supply of rural merchandise, 
• supply of agronomic advice, and 
• supply of agency services, including for livestock, real estate and finance 
Further issues you may wish to address are set out at Attachment A. 
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested 
The legal test the ACCC applies when assessing mergers and acquisitions is in section 50 of 
the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are likely to 
have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market.  
Please provide your response by 5pm on 10 January 2025 via email to 
mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: Submission re: Elders/Delta. If you require more time to 
respond, please let us know. 
If you would like to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any questions about this 
letter, please contact mergers@accc.gov.au.  


 
 
 
 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public Mergers 
Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We will not 
disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by 
law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or during court proceedings) or in 
accordance with s155AAA of the CCA. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where possible so that you may have an 
opportunity to be heard. Therefore, if the information provided to the ACCC is of a 
confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our Informal Merger Review Process 
Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality 
 
Yours sincerely 
 
Morag Bond 
General Manager  
Merger Investigations 


 
 
 
 
Attachment A 
Elders 
Elders is an ASX-listed (ASX: ELD) agribusiness.  
Elders supplies a range of agriculture-related products and services. Elders provides rural 
merchandise as well as a range of livestock and wool agency, real estate, finance, and feed 
and processing services across Australia. Elders also provides agronomic services.  
Elders operates 245 retail stores as well as operating a buying and marketing group called 
Australian Independent Rural Retailers (AIRR), which distributes rural merchandise on a 
wholesale basis. 
Further information about Elders can be found at: https://elders.com.au/.  
Delta  
Delta is an Australian supplier of a range of agriculture-related products and services. Delta 
provides rural merchandise primarily in regional areas of New South Wales, Victoria, South 
Australia and Western Australia. 
In addition to rural merchandising, Delta provides farm consultancy and production 
agronomy services, grain marketing services and livestock agency services. Delta also 
provides access to real estate and finance services through referral agreements with a real 
estate agent (Land, Agribusiness, Water and Development (LAWD)) and a bank (DLL 
Group) respectively.   
Delta operates 64 retail stores as well as operating a wholesale business (Delta WA) located 
in Western Australia.  
Further information about Delta can be found at www.deltaag.com.au.  
The proposed acquisition 
On 18 November 2024 the parties executed a Share Sale Agreement for Elders to acquire 
100% of the shares in Delta.  
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
Attachment B 
1) Please provide a brief description of your interest in the proposed acquisition, including 
any commercial relationship(s) with Elders or Delta. This will help us better understand 
your views. 
Relevant products or services 
The ACCC understands that Elders and Delta overlap in the supply of the following services:  
• 
rural merchandise retailing and wholesaling (including crop protection products, 
fertiliser, seed, feed supplements, animal health products, fencing equipment, 
harvest products, plant nutrition, safety equipment, spraying equipment and general 
rural merchandise)  
• 
agronomic advice1 
• 
livestock agency 
• 
real estate services, and  
• 
financial services.2  
For each of the above areas, the ACCC is seeking views on the following: 
Questions for customers of Elders and/or Delta 
2) Identify and describe the types of products and services you acquire from Elders or 
Delta, at a retail or wholesale level.  
3) Identify your suppliers for these products or services (including suppliers other than Delta 
and Elders)3  
a)  Which suppliers do you consider to be particularly effective competitors (for example, 
through their innovation, product offering or service)? 
b)  How closely do Elders and Delta compete (for example, on price, quality, location or 
range) in the supply of each of these products or services?  
4) Outline the extent to which independent retailers and/or consumers purchase rural 
merchandise directly from manufacturers and/or importers (rather than wholesalers), and 
the type of rural merchandise products they typically purchase from these suppliers.   
For customers that purchase rural merchandise from retail stores  
5) Where is your closest rural merchandise retail store? How far away is it (both in the 
distance required to drive there, and approximate drive time)?  
6) Describe the geographic area over which you generally source rural merchandise and 
any relevant factors for this, such as transport time and costs. 
 
1  
While both Delta and Elders offer agronomic advice, the focus of their agronomy businesses differ: Delta primarily provides 
professional farm consultancy services for a fee, whereas Elders primarily provides free production agronomy advice 
alongside the sale of rural merchandise. 
2  
While Delta does not provide finance or real estate services directly, it does earn commissions by referring their customers 
to DLL and LAWD.   
3  
This might include: rival chains, independent retailers, online purchases, purchasing direct from 
wholesalers/manufacturers, alternative suppliers, specialist, hardware and general merchandise stores. 


 
 
 
 
For retailers who acquire wholesale supply of rural merchandise 
7) How difficult is it for retailers to switch wholesalers, or source from multiple wholesalers 
simultaneously? 
For customers that acquire agronomy services 
8) Do you obtain agronomy services from Elders, Delta, competing agencies, and/or 
independent agronomists?  
a)  What factors do you consider when selecting a provider of agronomy services?  
b)  Do you obtain different types of agronomic services from different agencies? 
For customers that acquire agency services  
9) What factors do you take into account in selecting a livestock, finance or real estate 
agent? 
10) To what extent do Elders and Delta compete in providing these types of services? 
Questions for competing suppliers of rural merchandise or agency services  
11) Identify the products and services you supply in Australia and the areas where you 
provide these services. 
a)  identify your competitors for each key product or service you supply, in the areas 
where you provide the product or service.  
b)  where possible, provide estimated shares of supply for each of these areas. 
12) Will your ability to compete with a combined Elders-Delta in the area in which you 
provide services be affected by the acquisition? Why?  
13) What would be involved for a new firm to start supplying these services? How 
easy/difficult would this be and why?  
14) Describe the geographic area over which customers generally source rural merchandise 
and any relevant factors for this, such as transport costs. Can customers source these 
products and services from further away in response to a price increase? 
15) To what extent do you make decisions regarding prices, product range, service offering 
and other competitive choices at a national level? To what extent do you make these 
decisions on a local level? 
Other  
16) Identify any concerns you may have with the aggregation of two national suppliers of the 
identified products and services (i.e. scale efficiencies, exclusive access to certain 
brands, access to advanced technology/research etc)?  
17) Provide any additional information or comments that you consider relevant to the ACCC’s 
consideration of the proposed acquisition. 
 
