1 
 
ACCC WILL NOT OPPOSE JB HI-FI MOVE ON THE GOOD GUYS 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission has announced it will not 
oppose JB Hi-Fi Limited’s (ASX: JBH) (JB Hi-Fi) proposed acquisition of the Good 
Guys Discount Warehouses (Australia) Pty Ltd and the Muir Finance Company Pty 
Ltd (together, the Good Guys). 
 
Based on extensive market feedback and other industry information, the ACCC 
concluded that JB Hi-Fi and the Good Guys generally focus on different product 
categories and customers. The ACCC also found that post-acquisition, customers 
would have a range of alternative retailers of home appliances and consumer 
electronics.  
“JB Hi-Fi has traditionally focussed on selling consumer electronics, with stores 
located mostly in shopping centres or CBDs. On the other hand, the Good Guys has 
mostly focussed on whitegoods and other home appliances, with stores generally 
located in home centres or similar locations. Other retailers such as Harvey Norman 
have a much higher degree of overlap with the Good Guys than JB Hi-Fi,” ACCC 
Chairman Rod Sims said.  
“However, JB Hi-Fi and the Good Guys are clearly in competition with each other to a 
degree. The ACCC focussed its investigation on high-value consumer electronics 
and home appliances, particularly televisions, where there is the greatest overlap 
between the Good Guys and JB Hi-Fi.”  
JB Hi-Fi has also recently opened a number of JB Hi-Fi Home stores which stock a 
wider range of home appliances, competing more directly with the Good Guys.  The 
ACCC considered the potential for the JB Hi-Fi Home stores to become a larger 
player in non-electronics in the future.  
 
“On balance, the ACCC did not consider that the acquisition would substantially 
lessen competition in any market. We considered that the combined company would 
continue to face strong competition from Harvey Norman and other existing retailers 
such as Betta, Retravision, Bing Lee and Radio Rentals,” Mr Sims said. 
 
“For lower value and smaller items, we considered that consumers have a range of 
alternatives, including online suppliers and discount department stores.”  
  
Further information is available at 
http://registers.accc.gov.au/content/index.phtml/itemId/1195978/fromItemId/750991  
 
Background 
JB Hi-Fi sells home appliances and consumer electronics. It sells predominantly 
consumer electronics including audio/visual goods and equipment, CDs and DVDs. 
JB Hi-Fi has a small market share in large home appliances.  
 


2 
 
The Good Guys is owned by the Muir family and sells home appliances as well as 
consumer electronics. It focusses on home appliances rather than consumer 
electronics, also offering kitchen design and installation services to customers.  
 
JB Hi-Fi operates 179 stores and the Good Guys 100 stores.  
Media inquiries  
ACCC Media  1300 138 917  
MR 147/16 
11 August 2016 
 
