Page 1 of 13 
 
Public Competition Assessment 
26 August 2016 
Metcash – proposed acquisition of Home Timber & 
Hardware Group  
 
The ACCC’s decision 
1. 
On 21 July 2016 the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (the 
ACCC) announced its decision not to oppose the proposed acquisition of Home 
Timber & Hardware Group (HTHG) by Metcash Limited (Metcash), subject to a 
court enforceable undertaking provided by Metcash and accepted by the ACCC 
(the undertaking).  
2. 
At the time of the ACCC’s decision, Metcash was bidding for HTHG as part of a 
tender process run by Woolworths Limited (Woolworths).  
3. 
The ACCC considered that the proposed acquisition, in conjunction with the 
undertaking, would be unlikely to contravene section 50 of the Competition and 
Consumer Act 2010 (the Act). Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that would have 
the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of substantially lessening competition in 
any market.  
4. 
The ACCC considered the competitive effects of the proposed acquisition in the 
following markets:  
a) the wholesale supply of hardware and home-improvement products to 
retailers. The retailers impacted are those that acquire goods through 
wholesalers (such as Metcash and HTHG) and/or buying groups, and are 
referred to as “independent” retailers1  
b) local retail markets for the sale of hardware and home-improvement 
products 
c) national or regional markets for the wholesale acquisition of hardware 
and home-improvement products from manufacturers and suppliers. 
5. 
The ACCC explored the competition issues surrounding Metcash acquiring its 
only rival full-service wholesaler. The ACCC received significant feedback from 
independent retailers. The majority were supportive of the proposed acquisition, 
but others expressed significant concerns. The most significant concerns related 
to the loss of competition in wholesale supply to independent retailers, and the 
loss of competition and choice in local retail markets where there is no Bunnings.  
                                                 
1 This wholesale market does not include Bunnings, but the ACCC recognised that Bunnings is an indirect 
constraint on the market (this is explained below). 


 
Page 2 of 13 
6. 
To address the concerns, Metcash offered an undertaking. The ACCC 
concluded that while the undertaking would not replace the previous competition 
between Metcash and HTHG, on balance, the proposed acquisition combined 
with the obligations in the undertaking, was not likely to substantially lessen 
competition in any market. 
7. 
The undertaking is for a period of 10 years and places obligations on Metcash to: 
 
not restrict retail hardware stores it supplies from also acquiring products 
from non-Metcash sources 
 
not favour its own hardware stores over nearby independently-owned 
stores 
 
provide a plain-English summary of its obligations to all hardware stores 
that it supplies. 
8. 
Please note that this and other public competition assessments are subject to 
the following qualifications: 
 
the ACCC considers each transaction on a case-by-case basis and so 
the analysis and decision outlined in one assessment will not necessarily 
reflect the ACCC’s view of another transaction, even where that other 
transaction may involve the same or related markets 
 
as assessments are brief and also do not refer to confidential information 
provided by the parties or other market participants, assessments do not 
set out all of the issues and information considered by the ACCC, nor all 
of the analysis and reasons of the ACCC.  
The parties and the transaction 
The acquirer: Metcash 
9. 
Metcash operates a wholesale distribution and marketing company specialising 
in groceries, fresh produce, liquor and hardware. Its Mitre 10 business is a 
wholesaler of hardware and home-improvement products to independent 
retailers, including those trading under Metcash’s Mitre 10 and True Value 
Hardware brands. Metcash also offers support services to retailers trading under 
its brand banners. 
10. Metcash also has interests in eight joint ventures (JVs) with retailers to operate 
about 50 retail hardware stores. Metcash owns and operates five retail hardware 
stores outright. 
11. Metcash supplies products to about 325 Mitre 10 and True Value Hardware 
bannered retailers and about 500 non-bannered retailers. 
The target: Home Timber & Hardware Group 
12. HTHG (previously operating as Danks) wholesales hardware and home 
improvement products to independent retailers, including those that operate 
under its brands Home Timber & Hardware, Thrifty-Link, Hardings Hardware and 
Hudson Building Supplies.  


 
Page 3 of 13 
13. HTHG supplies over 400 bannered retail stores, comprising a mix of company-
owned and independent businesses. Specifically, HTHG owns and operates 43 
corporate stores, supplies Home Timber & Hardware and Thrifty Link bannered 
retailers. It also supplies about 1000 non-bannered retailers. 
The transaction 
14. At the time of the ACCC’s decision, Woolworths was conducting a sale process 
for both the HTHG and Masters hardware businesses, to be sold separately or 
as a whole. Metcash was participating in that sale process (with respect to 
HTHG only), alongside other potential bidders. 
Review timeline 
15. The following table outlines the timeline of key events for the ACCC in this 
matter.  
Date 
Event 
6 May 2016 
ACCC commenced review under the Merger Process 
Guidelines. 
20 May 2016 
Closing date for submissions from interested parties. 
29 June 2016 
Former proposed decision date of 30 June 2016 
delayed to allow the ACCC to consider a section 87B 
undertaking offered by Metcash. 
5 July 2016 
ACCC commenced market inquiries on draft 
section 87B undertaking offered by Metcash. 
12 July 2016 
Closing date for submissions relating to draft 
section 87B undertaking. 
21 July 2016 
ACCC announced that it would not oppose the 
proposed acquisition and accepted the section 87B 
undertaking.  
16. The total elapsed time from start to finish was just over two months. The total 
period net of time taken by the parties to submit information or documents and 
delays requested by the parties was 34 business days.  
Market inquiries 
17. The ACCC wrote to more than 1000 industry participants to gather information 
and gain their views about the proposed acquisition. These included retail stores, 
manufacturers, importers, competitors to Metcash and HTHG, and industry 
bodies. The ACCC sought submissions on the likely effect of the proposed 
acquisition on competition, and invited comments on the draft version of the 
undertaking. 
18. The ACCC received more than 150 written submissions and had a large number 
of telephone discussions with market participants, who expressed a range of 
views about the likely impact of the proposed acquisition on competition.  


 
Page 4 of 13 
19. Market participants who supported the proposed acquisition submitted that a 
combined Metcash-HTHG would have greater bargaining power with suppliers 
and greater economies of scale, and would enable independent retailers to 
compete more effectively with Bunnings. 
20. Market participants against the proposed acquisition expressed concerns about: 
 
the loss of the only alternative full-service wholesaler to Metcash 
 
a lessening of competition and choice in local retail markets, where, for 
example, a Mitre 10 store and a Home Timber & Hardware store currently 
compete closely 
 
the possible loss of the HTHG brands or particular HTHG trading terms 
 
Metcash having ownership interests in more stores, through acquiring the 
stores HTHG owns, and the potential for Metcash to discriminate against 
other stores in favour of its retail stores, and 
 
the removal of a major distributor for manufacturers and importers. 
Industry background 
21. The hardware and home-improvement industry is undergoing a period of 
change. Woolworths entered the industry in 2009 through a joint venture with a 
US hardware and home improvement retailer, Lowe’s. The joint venture invested 
heavily in establishing a network of Masters-branded ‘big-box’ stores to 
challenge Bunnings. Woolworths’ entry also involved the acquisition of the 
wholesaler, Danks (subject to an undertaking accepted by the ACCC). Danks 
was later renamed HTHG. 
22. On 18 January 2016, Woolworths announced its decision to exit its hardware 
and home-improvement business. This includes its 63 Masters stores and its 
HTHG business.  
Hardware and home-improvement retail formats 
23. The hardware and home-improvement industry includes retailers with different 
retail formats, such as multi-category retailers, category specialists and general 
retailers.  
Multi-category retailers 
24. Multi-category retailers include those under the Mitre 10, True Value Hardware, 
Home Timber & Hardware and Thrifty-Link brands, Bunnings, Masters and many 
unbannered retailers. These retailers vary in floor space and product range. 
25. Bunnings, which is owned by Wesfarmers Limited, is the largest multi-category 
retailer in the hardware and home-improvement industry in Australia. As at 
December 2015, Bunnings had 240 ‘big-box’ warehouses, 67 smaller format 
stores, 32 trade centres and three frame-and-truss centres operating in 
Australia. 
26. Bunnings and Masters do not rely on full-service wholesalers. Instead, they 
acquire products directly from manufacturers or importers and on-sell them to 
end-consumers through their own retail outlets.  


 
Page 5 of 13 
Category specialists 
27. Category specialists tend to cover a single category or a specialised range of 
product categories. Most focus on trade customers, although they can cater to 
households (known as ‘do it yourself’, or DIY, customers). Compared to multi-
category retailers, specialists usually offer a deeper range of products within a 
narrower field. Examples of specialty retailers are Reece and Tradelink (which 
specialise in plumbing and bathroom products), Beacon Lighting and Paint 
Place.  
General retailers 
28. General retailers such as Big W and other variety stores stock a limited range of 
hardware and home-improvement products, alongside products such as clothing, 
food and toys. 
Wholesalers, buying groups and direct supply 
29. Independent hardware and home-improvement retailers often buy products from 
a combination of sources including wholesalers, buying groups and direct from 
manufacturers and importers.  
Wholesalers 
30. The two largest wholesalers in Australia to independent hardware and home-
improvement retailers are Metcash and HTHG. In addition to supplying products, 
Metcash and HTHG also offer to retailers: 
 
a single ordering and central billing process to deal with multiple suppliers, 
including a chargeback facility2 
 
the negotiation of rebates with suppliers 
 
branding and marketing 
 
the ability to order small quantities of products (for example, as few as one 
or two units extracted from a box in the wholesaler’s distribution centre) 
 
store support services (for example, point-of-sale and ordering systems, IT 
system support and assistance with store layouts). 
Buying groups 
31. Buying groups negotiate purchases of hardware and home-improvement 
products collectively on behalf of their members, which are typically independent 
retailers. Buying groups combine volumes to negotiate better deals with 
manufacturers and suppliers. Members then buy products directly from the 
supplier, but at the price negotiated by the buying group. Two such buying 
groups are Natbuild and HBT. 
                                                 
2 Chargeback facilities enable retailers to source products directly from manufacturers/importers while 
being invoiced via their account with a wholesaler such as Metcash. It allows the retailers to access 
prices negotiated by the wholesaler, which may be attractive given the combined volumes the 
wholesaler can arrange. Retailers also generally make a single monthly payment to the wholesaler 
for their chargeback products rather than paying individual suppliers separately. 


 
Page 6 of 13 
32. Buying groups generally have a more limited range of products than Metcash or 
HTHG, and do not provide as many of the support services mentioned above. 
Hardware retailers may use a buying group, in addition to maintaining an 
account with a wholesaler such as Metcash or HTHG, where the buying group 
offers attractive terms. 
Direct supply 
33. Independent retailers usually obtain direct supply of products which are more 
efficiently delivered directly to the store rather than through a distribution centre. 
Typically this is because they are difficult to handle (for example, large or 
hazardous products) or because they have minimum order requirements that 
justify direct delivery. Such direct supply can be through a chargeback facility 
provided by the wholesaler, or negotiated directly by the retailer with the 
supplier. 
34. In general, larger retailers have more options than smaller ones for obtaining 
alternative supply sources (whether direct supply or through buying groups). 
Market definition 
35. Market definition establishes the relevant field of inquiry for merger analysis, 
identifying those sellers and buyers that may potentially constrain the 
commercial decisions of the merger parties and the merged firm, and those 
participants, particularly customers, which may be affected if the merger lessens 
competition. The ACCC often characterises markets by their dimensions: 
product, geographic and, if required, functional (such as manufacturing, 
wholesaling or retailing). 
36. Metcash and HTHG overlap in wholesale and retail operations in the hardware 
and home-improvement industry.  
37. The ACCC considered the competitive effects of the proposed acquisition in the 
following markets: 
 
national or regional markets for the wholesale supply of hardware and 
home-improvement products to independent retailers  
 
local retail markets for the sale of hardware and home-improvement 
products 
 
national or regional markets for the wholesale acquisition of hardware and 
home-improvement products from manufacturers and suppliers.  
Product dimension  
38. Hardware and home-improvement products include the following categories: 
 
tools and hardware 
 
bathroom and kitchen materials 
 
plumbing supplies 
 
paint and decoration 
 
garden supplies 


 
Page 7 of 13 
 
timber and building supplies 
 
lighting and electrical 
 
outdoor living 
 
flooring 
 
storage and organisation. 
39. Hardware and home-improvement customers may be described as ‘trade’ (such 
as tradespeople and builders) and DIY (such as home-owners). Although the 
type of customer targeted by a retailer will influence its product mix, DIY-focused 
retailers do attract trade customers, and vice-versa. The ACCC did not consider 
it necessary for the purposes of this review to define separate markets for DIY 
and trade customers. 
40. As discussed above, the hardware and home improvement industry includes 
multi-category, specialist and general retailers. Specialist retailers are generally 
considered to be less of a close substitute for multi-category hardware and home 
improvement retailers due to their narrower product range. General retailers are 
also a weaker substitute because of their limited range compared to multi-
category hardware and home improvement retailers.  
Functional dimension  
41. In this case, the ACCC considers that defining separate retail and wholesale 
levels of the markets provided a helpful framework for identifying and analysing 
the competitive constraints on Metcash and HTHG.  
42. The ACCC considered that the retail operations of Metcash and HTHG (including 
the stores they both supply) are and will be constrained by competition from 
other retailers, particularly Bunnings (either as an actual or potential competitor 
in particular geographic markets). 
43. The ACCC considered that the wholesale operations of Metcash are and will be 
constrained, to a degree, by competition faced by the retailers it supplies. For 
example, if Metcash charged retail stores more for its products, the stores are 
likely to pass the increase on to consumers. Consumers may then switch to 
buying more from Bunnings instead and Metcash would be likely to lose sales. 
The threat of lost sales to Bunnings can therefore constrain the wholesale price 
at which Metcash sells products to independent retailers. A critical question in 
this matter was the strength of that constraint (discussed further below). 
Geographic dimension  
44. The ACCC did not consider it necessary to form a concluded view in respect of 
the geographic dimension of the wholesale market and considered the effect on 
competition of the proposed acquisition at both a national and regional level. 
45. The ACCC considered the competitive effects of the proposed acquisition on 
retail competition in local markets. The ACCC usually considers the size of each 
local market on a case-by-case basis.3 Factors taken into consideration are 
travel times, road networks, geographic barriers and the distance customers are 
willing to travel to shop.  
                                                 
3 For example, Woolworths/Lowe’s proposed acquisition of G Gay & Co stores, 2012. 


 
Page 8 of 13 
46. The ACCC considers that most customers (both trade and DIY) value 
convenience and are unlikely to travel far to change retailers in response to price 
rises at a retailer located conveniently to them. However, for some customers, in 
particular trade customers, other factors such as service levels mean they may 
travel further to buy hardware and home improvement products.  
47. The ACCC did not consider it necessary to form a concluded view on the precise 
dimensions of any particular local retail market. 
Future with and without the acquisition 
48. To determine whether a proposed acquisition is likely to substantially lessen 
competition in any relevant market, the ACCC considers the effects of the 
acquisition by comparing the likely future competitive environment if the 
acquisition proceeds (the “with” position) to the likely future competitive 
environment if the acquisition does not proceed (the “without” position).  
49. Woolworths has announced its intention to sell HTHG, and is seeking bids for 
the business. In the future without the proposed acquisition, the ACCC considers 
it likely that HTHG would be acquired by a party other than Metcash, and that 
HTHG would therefore be likely to continue to operate in competition against 
Metcash (and others). 
50. At the time of the ACCC's decision, however, there was uncertainty regarding 
the likely future of both the HTHG and Masters businesses.  
Competition analysis 
51. The ACCC’s analysis focussed on whether the proposed acquisition would be 
likely to result in: 
(a) increased wholesale prices (including reduced rebates) or decreased 
services to independent retailers supplied by Metcash (both bannered 
and unbannered) due to the removal of HTHG as the main alternative 
wholesale supplier in Australia 
(b) discrimination by Metcash against independently-owned retailers where a 
Metcash JV or corporate store competes against an independently- 
owned store supplied by Metcash 
(c) muted competition between retailers supplied by Metcash, resulting in 
higher prices, narrower product ranges or lower service levels at the retail 
level  
(d) the removal of HTHG as a significant distribution channel for 
manufacturers and suppliers.  
52. The ACCC considered that competition concerns were most likely to arise in 
relation to the first two potential effects.  


 
Page 9 of 13 
Increased prices or reduced services at the wholesale level 
53. A key focus in the ACCC’s review was based on concerns from market 
participants that the proposed acquisition would eliminate wholesale competition 
between Metcash and HTHG, as the only two full-service wholesalers. 
54. The proposed acquisition would remove the closest competitor to Metcash for 
retailers that rely on third parties for supply. An independent retailer thinking of 
switching its wholesale supply arrangements away from Metcash to secure 
better price and non-price terms for some or all of the products it stocks will often 
be more likely to consider switching to HTHG before alternatives such as buying 
groups. The proposed acquisition would remove its ability to do this, or to 
threaten to do this. 
55. In considering whether Metcash would be able to increase wholesale prices or 
reduce services to independent hardware and home-improvement retailers if the 
proposed acquisition proceeded, the ACCC considered the direct and indirect 
constraints on Metcash. 
Direct constraints: alternative sources of wholesale supply to retailers. 
Ability to switch  
56. Metcash is more likely to be constrained (in terms of price and service) if 
retailers have an ability to switch to alternative sources of wholesale supply. 
57. Currently many retailers supplied by Metcash have the ability to switch to HTHG. 
Other options for some retailers include buying groups (for example, Natbuild 
and HBT) and direct supply from manufacturers/importers. This can involve 
switching just some of their product lines, or all of them.  
58. The removal of HTHG will mean that Metcash will no longer be constrained by 
the threat of retailers switching to the other full-service wholesaler.  
59. Some (in particular smaller) retailers may already face difficulties in switching to 
buying groups and direct supply. This is because of the administrative burden 
and commercial disadvantage of losing some or all of the additional services 
Metcash and HTHG offer. Additionally, many buying groups and direct suppliers 
have minimum order requirements that smaller DIY-focused retailers may not be 
able to meet. However, buying groups or direct supply will likely still be a viable 
alternative for some products. Furthermore, for a proportion of retailers, buying 
groups and direct supply are a viable option for all of the products they sell.  
60. The ACCC considered that for many retailers, the proposed acquisition would 
limit their ability to switch sources of wholesale supply. However, after taking into 
account the indirect constraints described below, the ACCC did not consider that 
the resulting lessening of competition met the threshold of being substantial in 
section 50 of the Act.  
61. The ACCC was also concerned that after the proposed acquisition, Metcash may 
try to restrict the ability of retailers to access alternative sources of wholesale 
supply. For example, Metcash may try to prevent a retailer buying part of their 
requirements directly from a supplier. Therefore, the undertaking accepted by 


 
Page 10 of 13 
the ACCC prevents Metcash from enforcing or introducing restrictions on 
retailers utilising alternative sources of wholesale supply. 
Barriers to entry and expansion 
62. Barriers to entry for a new entrant into wholesaling with a distribution network 
comparable to Metcash and HTHG are likely to be high. The establishment of an 
equivalent wholesale business is complex and costly, requiring significant capital 
investment to establish a distribution centre. The minimum efficient scale and 
difficulties associated with coordinating with a large number of retailers to 
establish a new warehouse also present significant barriers. 
63. Despite there being high barriers to entry for a large distribution network, the 
ACCC took into consideration that a group of retailers (particularly retailers that 
own multiple stores) may be able to establish a wholesaling operation on a 
smaller scale. The buying groups were started by groups of retailers, and 
although they do not operate distribution centres, there is the potential for a 
group of retailers to expand into distribution. Any new entrant establishing a 
distribution centre would need to get the support of enough retailers.  
64. The ACCC considered that the proposed acquisition may provide an incentive to 
existing buying groups to expand their service offering, should Metcash increase 
prices or decrease services after the acquisition. The ACCC considered that 
barriers to such expansion may not be as high as the barriers to establishing a 
full-service wholesaler. New entry or expansion has the potential to act as a 
constraint on Metcash's wholesale operations, and provide more choice to 
retailers. Additionally, the undertaking enables retailers to purchase from 
sources other than Metcash, which provides opportunities for new potential 
sources of wholesale supply.  
Indirect constraint: other retailers 
65. Another constraint on Metcash’s wholesale operations is the competition faced 
by the retailers it supplies, particularly competition from Bunnings. This 
competition limits Metcash’s ability to profitably increase its wholesale prices.  
66. The largest hardware and home-improvement retailer in Australia is Bunnings, 
with a store network that covers a large proportion of the Australian population.  
67. The ACCC concluded that Bunnings is likely to act as a significant indirect 
constraint on Metcash’s wholesale operations: particularly in relation to local 
retail markets where Bunnings is present, and in relation to supply to DIY-
focussed retailers. As was explained above, if Metcash charged retail stores 
more for their products, the stores will likely have to pass that on to consumers. 
Those consumers may then be likely to switch to buying more products from 
Bunnings instead. Therefore, Metcash would be likely to lose wholesale sales as 
its retailers’ sales decline.  
68. The ACCC concluded that the direct and indirect constraints on Metcash, in 
combination with the terms of the undertaking, are likely to prevent Metcash from 
locking in retailers to sourcing supply through Metcash and would be likely to 
constrain Metcash from increasing wholesale prices or reducing service levels 
after the acquisition.  


 
Page 11 of 13 
Discrimination in favour of Metcash JV and corporate retailers 
69. If the proposed acquisition proceeds, Metcash will have an interest in 97 JV or 
corporate retail stores. Many of these compete for retail sales against 
independently-owned retailers in the same local market. Metcash would be 
providing wholesale supply to both the independent and JV or corporate 
retailers. The ACCC was concerned that after the proposed acquisition, Metcash 
may discriminate against those independently-owned retailers that compete with 
Metcash’s JV and corporate stores, thereby limiting competition.  
70. Without the acquisition, if Metcash attempted to discriminate in favour of its JV or 
corporate stores, independently-owned retailers could perhaps switch to HTHG. 
The proposed acquisition would remove this option.  
71. The ACCC had particular concerns about the potential for discrimination in local 
retail markets where there is a local overlap between an independent store and a 
Metcash JV or corporate store and there is no Bunnings. In these local markets, 
sales lost by the independent retailer are likely to be largely captured by 
Metcash’s JV or corporate store. In areas where there is a Bunnings, some of 
those sales would be diverted to Bunnings, making the discriminatory behaviour 
less likely. 
72. The undertaking accepted by the ACCC places obligations on Metcash to not 
discriminate against independently-owned stores that are within 20 kilometres of 
a Metcash JV or corporate store. The ACCC considered that this aspect of the 
undertaking will assist in limiting the potential for discrimination in favour of 
Metcash JV and corporate retailers.  
Muted competition between retailers supplied by Metcash 
73. The ACCC considered whether the removal of a wholesaler would limit the 
scope for independent retailers to compete by differentiating their retail offer. 
74. It is unclear whether Metcash intends to consolidate the various brands it would 
own after the proposed acquisition (Mitre 10, Home Timber & Hardware, True 
Value Hardware and Thrifty Link). Currently, these brands provide a means for 
competing retailers to differentiate their offers. The proposed acquisition could 
result in the offerings of retailers supplied by Metcash becoming more similar. It 
may also reduce their scope to differentiate their offers from each other, 
particularly if Metcash consolidates product lines significantly.  
75. The ACCC considered that the degree of competitive harm from the proposed 
acquisition at the retail level was limited, given that most retailers would remain 
independently-owned. Moreover, most of these retailers compete directly against 
Bunnings. Metcash’s undertaking would also preserve retailers’ ability to 
compete against other independents by differentiating their offers by sourcing 
products from manufacturers/importers.  
76. On balance, the ACCC considered it unlikely that the proposed acquisition would 
substantially lessen competition in local markets by muting competition between 
retailers supplied by Metcash. 


 
Page 12 of 13 
Competition issues in wholesale acquisition markets 
77. HTHG is an important distribution channel for a number of manufacturers and 
importers of hardware and home-improvement products, particularly those that 
do not have agreements with Bunnings, Masters or Metcash. The proposed 
acquisition would reduce the number of significant acquirers of hardware 
products for wholesale supply from four to three (or three to two if Masters 
ceases trading).  
78. However, acquisition markets are characterised by a large number of smaller 
acquirers (including retail stores that purchase direct), Bunnings and two 
significant buying groups. 
79. The ACCC concluded that the proposed acquisition raised some competition 
concerns for the wholesale acquisition of hardware and home-improvement 
products from manufacturers and suppliers in Australia. However, these were 
not strong concerns due to the ability of manufacturers and importers to sell to 
retailers directly or through buying groups. 
80. Metcash’s undertaking to not restrict retailers from buying goods from other 
sources is expected to provide opportunities for manufacturers and importers to 
find new distribution channels to retailers. 
Undertaking 
81. Metcash provided the undertaking to address the ACCC's concerns about the 
proposed acquisition’s likely effects on competition. As noted above, the 
undertaking is for a period of 10 years and places obligations on Metcash to: 
 
not restrict retail hardware stores it supplies from also acquiring products 
from non-Metcash sources 
 
not favour its own hardware stores over other nearby stores 
 
provide a plain English summary of its obligations to all hardware stores 
that it supplies. 
82. A copy of the undertaking is available on the ACCC mergers register and 
undertakings register. 
No restriction of supply options 
83. The undertaking places obligations on Metcash not to restrict the ability of 
independent bannered or unbannered retailers to purchase goods from sources 
other than Metcash.  
84. The undertaking prohibits Metcash from compelling independent retailers to 
acquire all or most of their products from Metcash. It preserves the ability of 
independent retailers to bypass Metcash as a wholesaler and get supply from 
buying groups or directly from manufacturers and importers. The undertaking 
also prohibits Metcash from compelling manufacturers to supply retailers via a 
warehouse or a chargeback facility maintained by Metcash. 


 
Page 13 of 13 
85. This aspect of the undertaking endeavours to ensure that Metcash cannot 
restrict the ability of retailers to access alternative options for wholesale supply. It 
encourages more choice for retailers, which can provide a way in which they can 
differentiate themselves from competitors. It may also lower barriers to 
expansion or entry by alternative buying groups, as independent retailers will be 
able to utilise alternative wholesale options on a partial basis (that is, without 
committing to leaving a banner group entirely). 
Non-discrimination 
86. The undertaking places obligations on Metcash not to discriminate against 
independently-owned bannered or unbannered retailers that are within 
20 kilometres of a Metcash JV or corporate store, in relation to Metcash's terms 
and conditions for its supply of goods and services (including marketing support, 
discounts and rebates).  
87. This aspect of the undertaking addresses the ACCC's concern that the proposed 
acquisition may lead to Metcash discriminating against its wholesale customers 
where Metcash competes against these customers at the retail level in local 
markets. 
Compliance safeguards 
88. Given the behavioural nature of Metcash’s obligations in the undertaking, it is 
important to have appropriate compliance mechanisms in place.  
89. The undertaking requires that Metcash give information about its undertaking 
obligations to its bannered and unbannered retailers in the form of a plain-
English summary. This will ensure retailers are aware of Metcash’s obligations 
and can approach the ACCC if they consider that Metcash is not complying with 
its undertaking obligations. 
90. Retail stores, or anyone else, can contact the ACCC if they have concerns about 
Metcash’s compliance with the undertaking. 
91. The undertaking also provides for an independent auditor, who will regularly 
audit whether Metcash has complied with the undertaking. The independent 
auditor is accountable to the ACCC. 
Conclusion 
92. Based on the above analysis, the ACCC concluded that, on balance, the 
proposed acquisition of HTHG by Metcash, in conjunction with the undertaking, 
would be unlikely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in any 
market. 
