ACCC ACCEPTS METCASH UNDERTAKING PAVING WAY FOR HOME TIMBER 
BID  
 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission will not oppose a bid from Metcash 
(ASX: MTS) to acquire rival hardware wholesaler Home Timber & Hardware (HTH) from 
Woolworths (ASX: WOW) after accepting a court-enforceable undertaking from Metcash.  
 
In response to ACCC concerns, Metcash proposed an undertaking stipulating it would not 
restrict independent hardware stores from acquiring products from non-Metcash sources, 
nor would it favour its own hardware stores over nearby independent stores. 
 
The ACCC has accepted this undertaking as a condition for allowing the bid to proceed. 
 
The ACCC has considered responses from a broad range of hardware businesses to the 
undertaking, its ability to enforce it, and ultimately, the impact of the proposed acquisition on 
the multi-billion dollar hardware industry. 
 
“The decision not to oppose this bid was finely balanced and one the ACCC has given deep 
consideration to,” ACCC Chairman Rod Sims said.  
 
“We looked at the competition issues surrounding Metcash acquiring its only rival full-service 
wholesaler. We received significant feedback from independent retailers. The majority were 
supportive of the bid, but we also took on board feedback from others who expressed some 
genuine concerns.” 
 
“Bunnings is a large, powerful retailer that is present in most local markets, which will 
indirectly constrain Metcash’s wholesale operations – a factor we also took into 
consideration,” Mr Sims said. 
 
“We decided to accept Metcash’s undertaking, which should provide independent retailers 
with the ability to bypass Metcash by using buying groups or negotiating directly with 
manufacturers. This should also facilitate entry by any new wholesaler that may emerge,” Mr 
Sims said.  
 
“Metcash has also undertaken not to discriminate against independent hardware retailers in 
favour of its own stores.” 
 
An independent auditor, who will report to the ACCC, will ensure Metcash is meeting its 
obligations outlined in the undertaking. Metcash will also be required to give retailers plain-
English information on its obligations. Retailers can contact the ACCC if they have concerns 
about Metcash’s compliance with the undertaking. 
 
Retailers trading under the Home Timber & Hardware, Thrifty-Link, True Value Hardware or 
Mitre 10 banners can decide to leave those brands and establish themselves as an 
unbannered, independent retailer. The undertaking prevents Metcash from ‘locking out’ 
existing or new wholesalers from supplying those retailers. 
 


Please see the ACCC’s public register for more information. 
Background  
Woolworths is currently conducting a sale process for the HTH and Masters hardware and 
home improvement business. Metcash is considering acquiring HTHG and is participating in 
that sale process. The ACCC has accepted this undertaking as a condition for allowing the 
deal to proceed, should Woolworths decide to accept Metcash’s bid. 
Further background information is available in: Q and A: Metcash’s proposed acquisition of 
Home Timber & Hardware 
Review timeline                         
 
6 May 2016 
ACCC review started 
20 May  
Closing date for initial submissions 
29 June  
Decision date postponed to allow the ACCC to consider an undertaking 
proposed by Metcash 
5 July  
ACCC started consultation on the proposed undertaking 
12 July  
Closing date for submissions on the proposed undertaking 
21 July  
ACCC announced it would not oppose the proposed acquisition 
 
Media inquiries  
ACCC Media  
1300 138 917  
MR 131/16 
21 July 2016 
 
