Page 1 of 17 
 
 
Public Competition Assessment 
4 August  2014 
BlueScope Steel Ltd – proposed acquisition of Orrcon 
Steel  
Introduction 
1. 
On 5 December 2013, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission 
(ACCC) announced its decision not to oppose the proposed acquisition of 
certain Orrcon pipe and tube manufacturing and distribution assets and other 
associated assets (Orrcon) from Hills Holding Limited (Hills) by BlueScope 
Steel Ltd (BlueScope) (the proposed acquisition). The ACCC decided that the 
proposed acquisition would be unlikely to have the effect of substantially 
lessening competition in any market in contravention of section 50 of the 
Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the Act). 
2. 
The ACCC made its decision on the basis of information provided by the merger 
parties, information arising from its market inquiries and other relevant industry 
sources of publicly available and confidential information. This Public 
Competition Assessment outlines the basis on which the ACCC reached its 
decision on the proposed acquisition, subject to confidentiality considerations. 
Public Competition Assessment 
3. 
To provide an enhanced level of transparency and procedural fairness in its 
decision making process, the ACCC issues a Public Competition Assessment for 
all transaction proposals where: 
 
a proposed acquisition is opposed; 
 
a proposed acquisition is subject to enforceable undertakings; 
 
the merger parties seek such disclosure; or 
 
a proposed acquisition is not opposed but raises important issues that the 
ACCC considers should be made public. 
4. 
This Public Competition Assessment has been issued because the proposed 
acquisition was not opposed but raises important issues that the ACCC 
considers should be made public. 
5. 
By issuing Public Competition Assessments, the ACCC aims to provide the 
public with a better understanding of the ACCC's analysis of various markets and 
the associated merger and competition issues.  


 
Page 2 of 17 
 
6. 
Each Public Competition Assessment is specific to the particular transaction 
under review by the ACCC. While some transaction proposals may involve the 
same or related markets, it should not be assumed that the analysis and 
decision outlined in one Public Competition Assessment will be conclusive of the 
ACCC’s view in respect of other transaction proposals, as each matter will be 
considered on its own merits. 
7. 
Public Competition Assessments outline the ACCC’s principal reasons for 
forming views on a proposed acquisition at the time the decision was made. As 
such Public Competition Assessments may not definitively identify and explain 
all issues that the ACCC considers arise from a proposed acquisition. Further, 
the ACCC’s decisions generally involve consideration of both non-confidential 
and confidential information provided by the merger parties and market 
participants. In order to maintain the confidentiality of particular information, 
Public Competition Assessments do not contain any confidential information or 
its sources. 
8. 
This Public Competition Assessment outlines the circumstances and 
assessment at the time of the ACCC decision. Events that have occurred post 
the ACCC decision that are relevant to this matter are clearly identified. 
The parties 
The acquirer: BlueScope  
9. 
BlueScope is a vertically integrated steel manufacturer and distributor listed on 
the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX).  
10. 
BlueScope is the only manufacturer in Australia of steel slab, at its Port Kembla 
steelworks. The steelworks has a capacity of 2.6 million tonnes per annum. 
Through its subsidiary, Coated and Industrial Products Australia (CIPA), 
BlueScope processes steel slab into a range of steel products classified as ‘flat 
steel’ products. Further information on the flat steel product supply chain is 
provided below.  
11. 
In addition to CIPA, BlueScope has a number of businesses at various levels of 
the flat steel supply chain, including in steel products distribution and businesses 
carrying out additional manufacturing functions. 
12. 
BlueScope’s steel and tube distribution subsidiary is BlueScope Distribution. It 
distributes mainly long steel products, for example pipe and tube products, and 
steel plate. Pipe and tube products are regarded in the Australian industry as a 
form of long steel products, however they differ from other long products in that 
they are manufactured from flat steel products such as hot rolled coil (HRC), 
galvanised coil and cold rolled coil (CRC). BlueScope CIPA is the only domestic 
manufacturer of these inputs. 
The target: Orrcon  
13. 
At the time of the ACCC’s review, Orrcon was a wholly owned subsidiary of Hills. 
Of most relevance to the proposed acquisition, Orrcon operated a vertically 
integrated pipe and tube manufacturing business and a steel and tube 
distribution business. Orrcon manufactured pipe and tube products at facilities at 
Salisbury, Queensland, and O’Sullivan’s Beach, South Australia. Orrcon was the 
only Australian manufacturer of precision steel and pipe. Orrcon distributed steel 
and tube products through 12 sites across Australia.   


 
Page 3 of 17 
 
Industry background  
14. 
The steel supply chain in Australia is complex with a number of functional levels, 
numerous types of steel products, various manufacturing processes and a global 
dynamic through imports and exports. 
15. 
There are two broad forms of steel products: flat and long. As stated above, 
BlueScope, through its subsidiary CIPA, is the only Australian manufacturer of 
flat steel products. Arrium Ltd (Arrium) is the only Australian manufacturer of 
long products. 
16. 
Steel producers use inputs such as iron ore, coal and steel scrap to form raw 
steel either through using a basic oxygen furnace, or an electric arc furnace. 
Raw steel is then passed through a casting machine which moulds and solidifies 
the steel into semi-finished steel products known as ‘slab’, ‘billets’ or ‘blooms’. 
Steel slab, billets and blooms then undergo further processing to produce a 
range of flat or long steel products.  
17. 
Flat steel products are steel products produced from steel slab. Specifically, 
steel slab is reheated and passed through a rolling mill to produce HRC or a 
form of ‘steel plate’. HRC may be subject to further processing to manufacture 
CRC and coil plate.  
18. 
As noted previously, pipe and tube products are regarded in the Australian 
industry as a form of long steel products, but they differ from other long products 
in that they are manufactured from flat steel products such as HRC, galvanised 
coil and CRC. BlueScope CIPA is the only domestic manufacturer of these 
inputs. 
19. 
Customers of steel and tube distributors typically include fabricators, engineering 
workshops and construction companies. Examples include manufacturers of 
products for residential buildings (frames, beams, posts etc.), and automotive 
components (such as tow bars and bull bars). Figure 1 below illustrates the pipe 
and tube supply chain and the place of the proposed acquisition in the supply 
chain. 


 
Page 4 of 17 
 
Figure 1: Structural pipe and tube supply chain  
 
Pipe and tube manufacturing 
20. 
Pipe and tube products fall into four broad categories:  
 
structural pipe and tube; 
 
precision pipe and tube; 
 
oil and gas pipe; and 
 
water pipe.  
21. 
Structural pipe and tube products are used in building, manufacturing and 
engineering applications and are manufactured at separate mills from precision 
pipe and tube. Orrcon, Australian Tube Mills (ATM) and Independent Tube Mills 
(ITM) are the only manufacturers of structural pipe and tube products.  
22. 
The ACCC understands that, in respect of structural pipe and tube, the three 
domestic manufacturers represent approximately 60–65 per cent of total 2011/12 
industry sales with the balance supplied via imports.  
23. 
Precision products are used in furniture, home improvement, agricultural and 
automotive applications (for example, exhaust pipes). Orrcon is the only 
precision pipe and tube manufacturer in Australia.  
24. 
Oil and gas pipe is used in pipeline construction and is not currently 
manufactured domestically with both Orrcon and ATM ceasing production in the 
past two years. Water pipelines are cement lined steel pipes with the only 
Australian manufacturer being Pentair.  


 
Page 5 of 17 
 
Steel and tube distribution 
25. 
Pipe and tube products are one of the main product categories distributed by 
steel and tube distributors along with structural sections, merchant bar and steel 
plate. As noted above, distributors source pipe and tube products, merchant bar 
and structural sections from domestic manufacturers or via imports and in the 
case of steel plate from either BlueScope CIPA or via imports.  
26. 
Distributors form a link between steel mills and steel product manufacturers and 
their customers that, due to limited scale, are not able to obtain viable supply 
directly from a steel mill. The other features or characteristics of steel and tube 
distribution, compared with supply direct from a steel mill or manufacturer, are:  
 
distributors are located close to customers (there are distribution outlets in 
each of the major metropolitan and regional centres);  
 
distributors provide a wide product range, short order-to-delivery times, low 
minimum volumes and other associated services such as product support, 
and less onerous credit terms than if the customer were to acquire steel 
direct from a manufacturer; and 
 
some distributors offer processing services.  
27. 
Steel and tube distributors can be vertically integrated with a manufacturer, as is 
the case with Orrcon and ATM, or they can be aligned with a manufacturer from 
which they agree to purchase the bulk of their inputs.  Alternatively, they may be 
independent purchasers of steel products that source from a mix of domestic 
manufacturers and imports or solely from imports.   
28. 
Steel and tube distributors in most cases do not stock flat steel products, such as 
painted coil. These products are distributed by what the industry refers to as 
‘sheet and coil’ distributors. In some limited cases, particularly in regional areas, 
a distributor may stock both flat and long products, however these instances 
appear to be rare due to different customer profiles and distinct storage and 
processing equipment requirements. 
The proposed transaction  
29. 
BlueScope proposed to acquire certain Orrcon pipe and tube manufacturing and 
distribution assets from Hills.  
Areas of overlap  
30. 
The merger parties overlapped in the distribution of steel and tube products. 
BlueScope’s distribution business has sites in each Australian state and territory, 
with the exception of the Australian Capital Territory. Orrcon’s distribution 
business has sites in Victoria, New South Wales, South Australia, Western 
Australia and Queensland.  
31. 
The merger parties did not overlap horizontally at other levels of the supply 
chain. However, the proposed acquisition will result in the vertical integration of 
BlueScope’s CIPA business with Orrcon’s pipe and tube manufacturing assets 
and with both parties’ distribution businesses. 


 
Page 6 of 17 
 
Other industry participants  
Pipe and tube manufacturers  
Australian Tube Mills  
32. 
ATM is a wholly owned subsidiary of Arrium. ATM manufactures structural pipe 
and tube products from facilities at Acacia Ridge in Queensland, Newcastle in 
New South Wales, and Somerton in Victoria. ATM supplies customers directly or 
through distributors, including its related steel and tube distribution businesses 
OneSteel (trading under the Metalcentre and Metaland brands). 
Independent Tube Mills  
33. 
ITM is a privately owned Australian company. ITM commenced pipe and tube 
manufacturing in 2010, from a production facility in Ravenhall, Victoria. ITM 
distributes its structural pipe and tube products predominantly through 
BlueScope Distribution. 
Import traders  
34. 
There are a number of import traders that acquire finished pipe and tube 
products from overseas suppliers. Import traders include Minmetals, Toyota 
Tsusho Australasia, Metal One, CMC Metals, Southern Steel Group and 
Steelforce.  
National steel and tube distributors  
OneSteel  
35. 
OneSteel, owned by Arrium, distributes steel and tube products trading under 
the Metaland, Metalcentre and Midalia Steel (in Western Australia) brands. 
Metaland, Metalcentre and Midalia deliver a wide range of steel products and 
associated processing services. OneSteel has 77 distribution sites nation-wide.  
Southern Steel Group  
36. 
Southern Steel Group (Southern Steel) is the largest privately owned distributor 
of steel and tube products in Australia. Southern Steel distributes and processes 
steel and tube (as well as sheet and coil) products throughout Australia. 
Southern Steel’s subsidiaries include Brice Metals, Southern Steel Sheet and 
Coil, Southern Steel Supplies and Australian Rollforming Manufacturers. 
Steelforce  
37. 
Steelforce manufactures pipe and tube products in China. Steelforce primarily 
distributes steel and tube from its Sydney, Brisbane, Melbourne and Perth 
distribution sites.  
CMC Australia 
38. 
CMC Australia distributes long steel products, sheet and coil products and 
provides processing services for sheet and coil, steel plate and long products. 
CMC distributes steel and tube products from its distribution sites in Sydney, 
Melbourne, Perth and Brisbane.  
Regional distributors  
39. 
Regional based steel and tube distributors include Vulcan Steel, Apex Steel, 
Nubco, GAM Steel and Central Steel.  


 
Page 7 of 17 
 
Review timeline 
40. 
The following table outlines the timeline of key events in this matter.  
Date  
Event  
04-Sept-2013 
ACCC commenced review under the Merger Process 
Guidelines. Market inquiries commenced. 
25-Sept-2013  Closing date for submissions from interested parties.  
15-Oct-2013  
Former proposed decision date of 31 October 2013 delayed 
pending receipt of further information from the merger parties. 
ACCC timeline suspended.  
11-Nov-2013  
ACCC received further information from the merger parties. 
ACCC timeline recommenced.  
05-Dec-2013  
ACCC announced that it would not oppose the proposed 
acquisition.  
Market inquiries  
41. 
The ACCC conducted market inquiries with a range of market participants 
including rival pipe and tube manufacturers, importers of pipe and tube inputs 
and pipe and tube products, rival steel and tube distributors, industry 
associations and government departments.  
Future with/without the proposed acquisition 
42. 
Section 50 of the Act prohibits mergers or acquisitions that would have the effect 
or be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
In assessing a proposed acquisition pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC 
considers the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future competitive 
environment post-acquisition if the acquisition proceeds (the “with” position) to 
the likely future competitive environment if the acquisition does not proceed (the 
“without” position) to determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in any relevant market. 
43. 
The ACCC assessed the proposed acquisition against the status quo. Orrcon 
had been the subject of a sale process. In the event that BlueScope did not 
acquire Orrcon, Hills may have retained the business or may have sold Orrcon to 
another party. 
Competition Analysis  
Market definition  
44. 
The ACCC considered the proposed acquisition in the context of the following 
markets: 
 
the national markets for the supply of the following inputs to pipe and tube 
manufacturers and other users: 
o 
HRC; 
o 
CRC;  
o 
galvanised coil; 


 
Page 8 of 17 
 
(collectively pipe and tube inputs) 
 
the national market for the supply of structural pipe and tube products; 
 
the distribution of steel and tube products in the following regions: 
o 
northern Queensland (centred around Townsville); 
o 
south-eastern Queensland and northern New South Wales (centred 
around Brisbane); 
o 
central and southern New South Wales (centred around Sydney); 
o 
central and eastern Victoria (centred around Melbourne); 
o 
South Australia and western Victoria (centred around Adelaide); 
o 
Western Australia (centred around Perth); and 
o 
Tasmania.  
 
The supply of HRC, CRC and galvanised coil to pipe and tube 
manufacturers and other users 
Product dimension  
45. 
The ACCC notes that flat steel products, including HRC, CRC and galvanised 
coil, are supplied to a wide range of customers, including manufacturers and 
distributors. Relevant to the proposed acquisition is the use of these flat steel 
products by pipe and tube manufacturers.  
46. 
The ACCC considered the appropriate product markets for considering the 
supply of pipe and tube inputs to be separate markets for each of HRC, CRC 
and galvanised coil, being the three main flat steel products utilised by Australian 
pipe and tube manufacturers. HRC constitutes a significant proportion of the 
overall pipe and tube inputs utilised by manufacturers.  
47. 
The ACCC recognised that pipe and tube manufacturers require specific 
differentiated pipe and tube inputs. This differentiation is based on chemical 
properties and other factors which result in specific mechanical properties or 
grades. Due to customer requirements for specific end-use pipe and tube 
products, manufacturers would not substitute between different types of input 
(for example, HRC and galvanised coil) and grades and dimensions of coil.  
48. 
The ACCC understands that overseas manufacturers of pipe and tube inputs 
typically supply a large range of HRC, CRC and galvanised coil inputs in the 
specific grades and dimensions required by Australian pipe and tube 
manufacturers.  Information provided by market participants and other publicly 
available information, such as decisions by the Anti-Dumping Commission 
(ADC), indicated that steel and tube inputs are manufactured overseas to the 
same or similar grades and dimensions as supplied by BlueScope CIPA. The 
ACCC considered that these overseas-manufactured pipe and tube inputs are 
substitutable with those manufactured by BlueScope CIPA.   
49. 
For the purpose of its competition analysis, the ACCC assessed the proposed 
acquisition in the context of separate markets for each of HRC, CRC, and 
galvanised coil. However the ACCC did not consider product market definition to 
be determinative of its assessment of the proposed acquisition. 


 
Page 9 of 17 
 
Geographic dimension 
50. 
The ACCC considered that the geographic scope of the markets is national. 
BlueScope CIPA and other suppliers, such as import traders and overseas steel 
mills, supply to pipe and tube manufacturers and other users across Australia.  
Supply of structural pipe and tube products  
Product dimension 
51. 
The steel industry generally classifies steel and tube products into the following 
four categories: structural pipe and tube; precision pipe and tube; water pipe; 
and oil and gas pipes. The ACCC’s view is that only the supply of structural pipe 
and tube products is relevant to the proposed acquisition.  
52. 
Oil and gas pipe products are not manufactured in Australia. Water pipe and 
tube products are only manufactured by Pentair and it is not possible to 
manufacture structural or precision pipe and tube products using water pipe and 
tube machinery.  
53. 
Orrcon was the only manufacturer of precision pipe and tube products and 
manufactured relatively small volumes of these products. Due to their smaller 
diameters and thinner walls, precision pipe and tube products are not 
substitutable with structural pipe and tube products from a customer perspective. 
Market feedback also indicated that precision pipe and tube products are 
imported in significant volumes. No market participants raised concerns in 
respect of the potential impact of the proposed acquisition on the supply of 
precision pipe and tube products.  
54. 
Structural pipe and tube suppliers, such as Orrcon, offer a wide range of 
structural pipe and tube products intended for numerous end-use applications. 
Broadly these products are differentiated by whether they are square hollow, 
circular hollow, or rectangular hollow, and the coating or finish on the product. 
Within each category a supplier would offer a wide range of gauges and 
diameters to suit the specifications of customers. Products are often supplied by 
reference to relevant Australian Standards. The ACCC understands that 
generally customers would not consider one form of structural pipe and tube 
product to be a close substitute with another due to their specific end-use 
requirements.   
55. 
Structural pipe and tube suppliers, including manufacturers, are able to supply a 
wide range of structural pipe and tube products without the requirement for 
additional or specialty machinery. Manufacturing equipment can be adjusted to 
produce structural pipe and tube products in various shapes and measurements. 
56. 
Based on the ease of supply side substitution, the ACCC formed the view that 
the appropriate product dimension is the supply of structural pipe and tube 
products. Market inquiries indicate that imports of structural pipe and tube 
products are substitutable with Australian manufactured structural pipe and tube 
products. 
Geographic dimension 
57. 
The ACCC considered that the geographic scope of the market was national. 
Orrcon, ATM and other suppliers, such as import traders and overseas steel 
mills, supply structural pipe and tube products to users across Australia.  


 
Page 10 of 17 
 
Distribution of steel and tube products  
Product dimension 
58. 
Steel and tube distributors supply a range of long steel products, including 
structural pipe and tube products, merchant bar, reinforcing steels and steel 
plate. Distributors also offer processing services (for example, cutting) to provide 
steel products to the specifications of the customer. Customers have no 
incentive to substitute between the different products offered by distributors due 
to specific end-use requirements.  
59. 
To the extent that distributors do not offer certain steel and tube products, it 
appears they can readily expand utilising established warehousing and 
processing equipment to offer a wider range. The ACCC’s view was therefore 
that the relevant market was the market for distribution of steel and tube 
products.  
60. 
As noted above, distributors also offer a range of processing services to tailor 
steel product to specific customer requirements. Processing services include 
length cutting, plate profiling and beam processing. The ACCC considered the 
ease with which steel and tube distributors without processing capability could 
acquire processing equipment and thereby expand to offer processing services. 
The ACCC concluded that the investment and time required to commence the 
processing of steel and tube products was not substantial.  
Geographic dimension 
61. 
Market feedback indicated that, due to customers’ ‘just in time’ delivery 
requirements and the cost associated with transporting steel and tube products, 
steel and tube distributors are generally located within 2 – 3 hours drive of 
customers. As a consequence, the ACCC considered that the markets for steel 
and tube distribution are regionally based. As noted above in the Areas of 
Overlap section, BlueScope and Orrcon overlapped in five geographical areas. 
The ACCC’s view was that these regions constituted relevant geographic 
markets for considering the proposed acquisition.  
62. 
The ACCC also considered that Tasmania was likely to be a relevant geographic 
market due to the potential for Tasmanian distributors to be impacted by the 
proposed acquisition. Market inquiries indicated that steel and tube distributors 
based in Victoria distribute products in Tasmania only to a limited extent. 
Competition Assessment  
63. 
The ACCC’s assessment focussed on whether BlueScope’s increased vertical 
integration as a result of the proposed acquisition would provide it with the ability 
and incentive to foreclose competition in the relevant markets leading to higher 
prices or reduced quality.   
64. 
In particular, the ACCC considered whether the acquisition would enable 
BlueScope to raise its rivals’ costs (input foreclosure) by: 
 
no longer supplying, or supplying at higher prices or lower quality, pipe and 
tube inputs to rival pipe and tube manufacturers; and/or 
 
no longer selling to, or increasing the price or reducing the quality of 
structural pipe and tube products supplied to, rival steel and tube 
distributors.  


 
Page 11 of 17 
 
65. 
The ACCC also considered whether the proposed acquisition would enable 
BlueScope to foreclose its upstream rivals’ access to customers (customer 
foreclosure), thus reducing rivals’ expected revenues by: 
 
ceasing to source pipe and tube inputs from rival upstream suppliers; 
and/or  
 
ceasing to distribute structural pipe and tube products manufactured by 
rival manufacturers.  
66. 
The ACCC also considered the potential competitive impact of horizontal 
aggregation of the BlueScope and Orrcon steel and tube distribution businesses 
in the relevant steel and tube distribution markets listed above.  
Foreclosure of rival pipe and tube manufacturers’ access to pipe 
and tube inputs  
67. 
BlueScope is the only domestic manufacturer of the pipe and tube inputs 
supplied to ATM and ITM. The acquisition of the Orrcon pipe and tube 
manufacturing business will mean that BlueScope will be both the main supplier 
of inputs to, and a competitor of, the other pipe and tube manufacturers.   
68. 
As a consequence, the ACCC considered whether, as a result of acquiring the 
Orrcon pipe and tube manufacturing assets, BlueScope would have the ability 
and incentive to use any upstream market power in the manufacture of structural 
pipe and tube input products to raise downstream rival pipe and tube 
manufacturers’ costs. Post-acquisition, BlueScope may have the ability and 
incentive to foreclose the downstream manufacturing markets by, for example, 
ceasing to supply inputs to rival manufacturers, or raising the price or reducing 
the quality of inputs supplied. This may have the effect of reducing the 
competitive constraint that rival manufacturers place on the merged firm, 
potentially resulting in a substantial lessening of competition in the market(s) for 
the supply of structural steel and tube products, leading to higher prices and/or 
reduced quality. 
69. 
In assessing this potential competition concern, the ACCC focussed on the role 
of imports in constraining any attempted input foreclosure strategy by 
BlueScope.  
70. 
The ACCC received information that indicated that the volume of imports of pipe 
and tube inputs is significant. Both ATM and ITM have utilised imports of pipe 
and tube inputs as a substitute to supply from BlueScope CIPA. Further, the 
price that BlueScope CIPA sets for pipe and tube inputs is related to the price of 
imports.  
71. 
Nevertheless, in the course of the ACCC’s market inquiries, competing 
manufacturers stated that issues around anti-dumping applications/duties and 
logistical challenges impact the competitive constraint that imports of pipe and 
tube inputs place on BlueScope. Thus, competing manufacturers argued that 
they only had a limited ability to defeat an input foreclosure strategy by switching 
to imports. 
Anti-dumping applications and duties 
72. 
Based on publicly available data and information provided by the merger parties, 
successful anti-dumping applications have had the effect of increasing the price 
and reducing the volume of imports from steel mills and countries subject to the 
imposed duties.  


 
Page 12 of 17 
 
73. 
Market inquiries indicated that anti-dumping applications have had some impact 
on pipe and tube manufacturers’ ability to source HRC and galvanised coil from 
overseas sources at competitive prices. Consistent with the ACCC’s review of 
the Smorgon Steel acquisitions in 2008, it appears that the lodging of 
applications has some ‘chilling effect’ on the competitive constraint of imports. 
Namely, it is not just the imposition of duties that have an impact but also the 
lodging of the application and the commencement of the investigation by the 
ADC.  
74. 
It appears that once an anti-dumping investigation commences, overseas mills, 
import traders, and importers become reluctant to engage in transactions due to 
the potential for duties to be levied. For example, a trader may agree to supply a 
customer but the terms of supply are that the price is exclusive of any duty that is 
imposed and to the extent duty is imposed the customer agrees to bear this. The 
result is that importers become reluctant to source supply from a country/mill that 
is under investigation due to the uncertainty of the final pricing outcome.  
75. 
However, some market participants noted that in a number of instances the 
quantum of the duties imposed on particular mills was not large enough to 
significantly impact their competitiveness. For example, it was noted that in the 
case of HRC, South Korean mills had minimal duties (two to five per cent) 
imposed and at that level supply from those mills was still price competitive.  
76. 
The ACCC considered that anti-dumping applications by BlueScope do reduce 
the strength of imports as an alternative to supply from BlueScope CIPA. 
However, based on market feedback and information obtained by the ACCC, the 
ACCC considered that imports of pipe and tube inputs would continue to be a 
significant source of supply, with pipe and tube manufacturers demonstrating 
sophistication in obtaining imported supply even when anti-dumping measures 
have been imposed. 
Inventory and logistical issues  
77. 
Some industry participants submitted to the ACCC that it would not be feasible 
for pipe and tube manufacturers to significantly expand import volumes due to 
the need for greater storage, additional capital tied up in inventory and increased 
complexity in attempting to align import volumes with customer demand.  
78. 
Some market participants suggested that managing the long lead times of 
imports of pipe and tube inputs, often three to four months, are exacerbated by 
the delivery requirements of downstream pipe and tube customers. Customers of 
pipe and tube manufacturers generally expect short delivery times from the time 
of order, depending on the quantity and the specificity of the structural pipe and 
tube products required. Market participants indicated that BlueScope CIPA’s 
competitive advantage lies with shorter delivery times compared to imports. 
These shorter lead times assist manufacturers in more accurately matching pipe 
and tube input requirements with demand for structural pipe and tube products 
from customers.   
79. 
The ACCC noted the complexities associated with imports, including additional 
storage and inventory management issues. However, based on publicly 
available data, market feedback and information provided by the merger parties, 
the ACCC considered that these challenges can be and have been overcome by 
pipe and tube manufacturers and, post-acquisition, imports would continue to 
represent a significant alternative to BlueScope for the supply of pipe and tube 
inputs. This would reduce BlueScope’s ability and incentive to pursue an input 
foreclosure strategy that sought to raise rival manufacturers’ costs. 


 
Page 13 of 17 
 
80. 
Additionally, the ACCC considered that BlueScope would continue to have an 
incentive to supply inputs to rival manufacturers of pipe and tube products due to 
the need to operate the blast furnace at BlueScope’s Port Kembla steelworks at 
full capacity and the greater profits it earns on downstream domestic sales over 
exporting excess production.  
Conclusion 
81. 
The ACCC considered that anti-dumping applications and associated duties and 
logistical issues reduce to some extent the competitive constraint provided by 
imports. However, the ACCC concluded that despite these issues imports are a 
viable alternative source of supply of inputs for pipe and tube manufacturers.  
82. 
The strength of imports is reflected in the significant volumes over a number of 
years and BlueScope’s pricing and its correlation to import prices. Any attempt 
by BlueScope to engage in a foreclosure strategy (either by refusing to supply 
coil inputs or by increasing prices for these inputs above the current premium 
over import parity) would be expected to be defeated by an increase in the 
volume of imports.  
Foreclosure of rival distributors’ access to structural pipe and tube 
products 
83. 
The ACCC concluded that BlueScope is not likely to have significant market 
power in the supply of structural pipe and tube products.  Nevertheless, due to 
concerns raised by distributors of structural pipe and tube products, particularly 
in Tasmania, the ACCC considered whether, through acquiring the Orrcon pipe 
and tube manufacturing assets, BlueScope would have the ability and incentive 
to raise rival steel and tube distributors’ costs.  
84. 
Such foreclosure could involve ceasing to supply its structural pipe and tube 
products to rival distributors, or raising the price or reducing the quality of 
structural pipe and tube products supplied. This may have the effect of reducing 
the competitive constraint that rival distributors place on the merged firm, 
potentially resulting in a substantial lessening of competition in the markets for 
the distribution of steel and tube products, leading to higher prices and/or 
reduced quality.  
85. 
Market inquiries confirmed that steel and tube distributors obtain supply of 
structural pipe and tube products from either domestic manufacturers (Orrcon, 
ATM or ITM) or via imports. Steel and tube distributors often operate a dual 
sourcing strategy where the majority of structural pipe and tube is sourced from 
one domestic manufacturer with the remainder sourced from either an alternative 
domestic manufacturer or via imports. Industry feedback indicated that the 
source of supply fluctuates based on product availability and price. It is rare for 
distributors to have formal supply agreements.  
86. 
The ACCC noted that the proposed acquisition would not alter the number of 
potential alternative sources of supply of structural pipe and tube products for 
steel and tube distributors. Further, it is likely that rival distributors would be able 
to bypass BlueScope and thus defeat an input foreclosure strategy if BlueScope 
sought to use the Orrcon assets to raise rival distributors’ costs by foreclosing 
their access to structural pipe and tube products. BlueScope could be bypassed 
by rival distributors obtaining supply from: 
 
other domestic structural pipe and tube manufacturers – principally ATM 
and to a lesser extent ITM; and/or 
 
imports, either via import traders or direct from overseas steel mills.  


 
Page 14 of 17 
 
Domestic sources of supply 
87. 
The ACCC concluded that ATM represented the strongest alternative for the 
supply of structural pipe and tube products were BlueScope to pursue an input 
foreclosure strategy. Market inquiries indicated that ATM had a comparable 
range of structural pipe and tube products to Orrcon and offered competitive 
pricing and service support.  
88. 
The ACCC considered that in some cases ITM may represent an alternative 
source of supply for steel and tube distributors. Market feedback indicated that 
ITM’s competitive advantage is its location in Victoria, close to a number of steel 
and tube distributors and the corresponding lower transport costs it incurred 
compared to the other manufacturers.  
89. 
The ACCC considered that the ability of rival distributors to source structural pipe 
and tube products from alternative domestic manufacturers, particularly ATM, 
would likely reduce BlueScope’s ability and incentive to pursue an input 
foreclosure strategy and instead provide a competitive discipline on BlueScope 
such that it will have an incentive to maintain supply of structural pipe and tube 
products to rival distributors at competitive prices and terms.  
Imports as a source of supply 
90. 
The ACCC also recognised that for a number of steel and tube distributors, 
imports are also a viable alternative to domestic supply. However, the ACCC 
noted market feedback that issues associated with anti-dumping 
applications/duties, Australian Standards and logistical challenges impact the 
strength of imported structural pipe and tube products as an alternative to supply 
from Orrcon, ATM or ITM.  
91. 
The ACCC considered that anti-dumping applications and the imposition of 
duties have a 'chilling effect' on imports’ competitive constraint in the short-term. 
Overseas manufacturers and mills become reluctant to supply to Australia when 
an ADC investigation is initiated and terms of supply often come with clauses 
that make the end customer liable for any duty that may be applied. Further, for 
manufacturers that have had a significant duty imposed, their ability to offer 
competitively priced supply to Australian customers is severely impacted.  
92. 
It appears, therefore, that there is an initial period of disruption while importers 
find alternative sources of structural pipe and tube products. Nevertheless, 
based on information provided by market participants and data collected by the 
ACCC, in the medium term it appears that anti-dumping applications may not 
significantly reduce the competitive constraint provided by imports. 
93. 
Some market participants raised concerns about BlueScope and Arrium using 
the Australian Standards process to impose additional barriers to imports. The 
ACCC considered that adhering to Australian Standards adds additional 
complexity to importing structural pipe and tube products. Further, these 
standards may change from time to time which would add to the complexity.  
94. 
The ACCC understood that the Australian Standards’ amendment process, 
which is managed by Standards Australia, is a lengthy and transparent process 
and that comment is sought from all potential affected stakeholders, including 
importers, in respect of any proposed changes to an industry standard. For an 
existing Australian Standard to be changed, a party must demonstrate a benefit 
to the community as a whole that exceeds the costs likely to be imposed from its 
development and implementation.  


 
Page 15 of 17 
 
95. 
The ACCC was satisfied that in the case of steel standards the process 
undertaken by Standards Australia should ensure that BlueScope and Arrium 
are not able to influence the amendment of relevant structural pipe and tube 
standards as a means of reducing the strength of imports as a potential 
alternative to domestic supply.  
96. 
Market inquiries indicated that managing the importation of structural pipe and 
tube products does add a degree of complexity to the supply chain. Lead times 
can be long (three to four months) with resulting issues in matching supply with 
demand and potential cash flow implications. However, despite these logistics 
challenges the volume of structural pipe and tube imports indicated that they can 
be overcome by some distributors and direct customers.  
Tasmanian distributors’ access to structural pipe and tube products 
97. 
A number of market participants raised concerns about the potential impact of 
the proposed acquisition on Tasmanian distributors’ access to structural pipe 
and tube products. In particular, some market participants considered that 
BlueScope would have the ability and incentive to foreclose rival Tasmanian 
distributors’ access to structural pipe and tube products, potentially leading to a 
substantial lessening of competition in that regional distribution market.  
98. 
Unlike elsewhere in Australia, the number of steel and tube distributors in 
Tasmania is limited with BlueScope, OneSteel (through the Metaland and 
Metalcentre brands) and Nubco being the major distributors. With the exception 
of GAM Steel, Victorian based steel and tube distributors generally do not supply 
into Tasmania.  
99. 
The ACCC gave particular consideration to the potential impact of the proposed 
acquisition on the Tasmanian distribution market due to Nubco obtaining 
significant volumes of structural pipe and tube products from Orrcon. In 
particular, post-acquisition Nubco would be the only significant non-integrated 
distributor in Tasmania. Market inquiries suggested that Nubco’s ability to 
bypass BlueScope to obtain supply from alternative sources of structural pipe 
and tube products may be more limited than steel and tube distributors located in 
the other markets due to the role of the Tasmanian Freight Equalisation Scheme 
(TFES).  
100. The TFES is intended to compensate Tasmanian manufacturing and mining 
businesses for the cost of shipping raw materials, machinery and equipment 
from mainland Australia to Tasmania. To be eligible for compensation, the goods 
must be a raw material or equipment to be used in a production or manufacturing 
process, be produced or manufactured in mainland Australia (or if imported 
undergone a manufacturing process in mainland Australia), have a sea freight 
cost disadvantage and be transported across the Bass Strait as ‘non-bulk’ cargo.  
101. Some Tasmanian steel and tube distributors submitted that the TFES limited the 
extent to which they could source structural pipe and tube products from import 
traders or via overseas steel mills because imported products are not eligible for 
subsidy under the TFES and therefore distribution customers could not claim a 
rebate.  
102. In market inquiries, downstream customers indicated that the TFES only has 
limited influence in their decision making process when deciding which 
distributor to acquire structural pipe and tube from. In particular, customers of 
structural pipe and tube products in Tasmania indicated that the time and 
complexity associated with applying for subsidies under the TFES and the 


 
Page 16 of 17 
 
limited financial benefits available meant that it had minimal bearing over 
decision making in sourcing structural pipe and tube products.   
Conclusion 
103. The ACCC concluded that were BlueScope to attempt to foreclose rival steel and 
tube distributors’ access to structural pipe and tube products then rival 
distributors would likely be able to bypass it and defeat the attempted foreclosure 
through obtaining supply from: 
 
alternative domestic structural pipe and tube manufactures – principally 
ATM and to a lesser extent ITM; and/or 
 
imports, either via import traders or direct with overseas steel mills.  
104. In respect of steel and tube distribution in Tasmania, after careful consideration 
and extensive consultation with rival distributors and customers in Tasmania, the 
ACCC concluded that were BlueScope to pursue a foreclosure strategy, then 
rival steel and tube distributors in Tasmania would likely be able to defeat the 
strategy by bypassing BlueScope and obtaining supply from either: 
 
import traders or distributors based in other states, such as Steelforce, 
which supply structural pipe and tube products; and/or 
 
to some extent the structural pipe and tube manufacturer, ITM. 
105. Further, the ACCC was of the view that to the extent rival Tasmanian 
distributors, such as Nubco, may be impacted in obtaining competitive supply of 
structural pipe and tube products, the effect would be unlikely to represent a 
substantial lessening of competition in that distribution market. Nubco's 
customers would have competitive alternatives, principally in the form of GAM 
Steel and other smaller distributors.  
Foreclosure of rival pipe and tube input suppliers’ access to 
customers  
106. The ACCC also considered whether the loss of Orrcon as an independent 
customer or potential customer for pipe and tube inputs may reduce the 
distribution opportunities for BlueScope's rivals, such as import traders, to such 
an extent that their unit costs increased. This would place them at a cost 
disadvantage and reduce the competitive constraint on BlueScope. 
107. The ACCC concluded, in respect of pipe and tube inputs, that rival suppliers 
(import traders) would continue to have access to a large pool of alternative 
customers in the relevant markets and in other steel industry markets. In 
addition, Orrcon currently acquires a substantial majority of its pipe and tube 
inputs from BlueScope CIPA.  
108. To the extent suppliers are impacted they would continue to have a large range 
of users of pipe and tube inputs, such as galvanised coil, other than just pipe and 
tube manufacturers, to which BlueScope’s rivals could seek to supply directly. 
Foreclosure of rival structural pipe and tube suppliers’ access to 
customers 
109. The ACCC anticipated that post-acquisition BlueScope Distribution would obtain 
a significant volume of its structural pipe and tube products from the Orrcon 
manufacturing assets. As a consequence, the ACCC also considered whether 
the potential loss of BlueScope Distribution as a customer of structural pipe and 


 
Page 17 of 17 
 
product suppliers would significantly impact the competitiveness of rival 
suppliers.  
110. In considering the impact on structural pipe and tube manufacturers the ACCC 
particularly focussed on the potential effect on ITM. The ACCC understood that 
BlueScope Distribution was a large customer of ITM for the supply of structural 
pipe and tube products. The ACCC considered that post-acquisition BlueScope 
Distribution would likely reduce or cease obtaining supply from ITM and instead 
utilise the Orrcon manufacturing assets.  
111. However, the ACCC considered that ITM would continue to have a large number 
of potential alternative customers, including other steel and tube distributors and 
end customers of structural pipe and tube products. The ACCC considered that 
the availability of a large number of alternative customers would also be 
applicable to other structural pipe and tube suppliers (for example, ATM and 
importers).   
112. The ACCC concluded that it would be unlikely that post-acquisition BlueScope 
would have the ability and incentive to significantly foreclose rival structural pipe 
and tube suppliers’ access to downstream customers.  
Horizontal aggregation in steel and tube distribution 
113. BlueScope Distribution and Orrcon overlap in six geographically separate steel 
and tube distribution markets. While barriers to entry are high, the ACCC 
concluded that the merged firm would be constrained in the relevant steel and 
tube distribution markets by the presence of numerous alternatives with excess 
capacity and the ability of customers to switch easily between these alternatives.  
114. In all five markets, the merged firm would be constrained by Southern Steel and 
OneSteel and numerous smaller distributors. These rival distributors offer 
comparable product ranges and, importantly, in most cases also have 
processing capability. Smaller distributors, in particular Vulcan Steel, CMC Coil 
Steels and Steelforce, use imports, to some extent, as a means to offer lower 
prices and differentiate themselves from larger distributors.  
115. The ACCC concluded that there are low switching costs with a strong market 
dynamic of customers making orders on a spot or quote basis. Market 
participants noted that customers generally contact different distributors seeking 
quotes for a particular order with the expectation of short delivery times. While 
some customers had a ‘preferred’ supplier arrangement, market inquiries 
indicated that it was rare for there to be formal supply agreements between 
customers and distributors.  
116. For these reasons the ACCC concluded that the horizontal aggregation of the 
BlueScope and Orrcon distribution businesses would be unlikely to result in a 
substantial lessening of competition.  
Conclusion  
117. On the basis of the above the ACCC formed the view that BlueScope’s proposed 
acquisition of Orrcon from Hills would not be likely to result in a substantial 
lessening of competition in any market in contravention of section 50 of the Act. 
