 
 
Dear interested party, 
As you may be aware, Amazon.com, Inc. (Amazon) proposes to acquire MGM Holdings Inc. 
(MGM). We are seeking your views on this proposal because we understand you have an 
interest in markets that may be affected. The Australian Competition and Consumer 
Commission (ACCC) is an independent statutory authority responsible for investigating 
whether mergers are likely to substantially lessen competition. We rely on information from 
market participants to make informed decisions.  
The parties 
Amazon operates a range of businesses including retail, entertainment, consumer 
electronics and technology services. Relevantly, Amazon produces film and TV content 
through Amazon Studios, which is available alongside third party content on Amazon Prime 
Video, a video-on-demand (VOD) streaming service.  
MGM produces films for release in cinemas, and produces and licenses films and TV content 
for distribution via all other means and media, including VOD, TV and physical home video. 
Some of MGM’s most well-known films include the James Bond franchise, the Rocky 
franchise, The Silence of the Lambs, Legally Blonde, The Pink Panther and Tomb Raider. 
Some of MGM’s major TV shows are The Handmaid’s Tale, Fargo, Vikings, The Real 
Housewives, The Voice (America), Shark Tank, Survivor and Teen Wolf.  
Information we are seeking 
Amongst other things, we are seeking to understand: 
• 
whether MGM has or is likely to produce “must have” film and/or TV content, 
particularly for cinemas and rival VOD streaming providers in Australia 
• 
whether the combined Amazon/MGM would be likely to have the ability and 
incentive to foreclose access to MGM titles by cinemas and rival VOD streaming 
providers in Australia 
• 
the extent to which cinemas and rival VOD streaming providers in Australia would 
have access to film and TV content from alternative producers, in order to effectively 
compete with the combined Amazon/MGM 
• 
how the possible foreclosure of rivals’ access to content could impact the production 
of Australian film and TV content to the detriment of consumers, and your reasons 
• 
the ability for rival VOD streaming providers in Australia to produce their own film 
and TV content, including the costs or other obstacles to doing so  
• 
the extent to which the proposed acquisition would extend Amazon’s Prime offer 
and thereby enhance Amazon’s position in e-commerce in Australia 
• 
any concerns you have about the likely competition effects of the proposed 
acquisition, including your reasons. 
When responding, please also provide a brief description of your business and the reasons 
for your interest in the proposed acquisition, including an explanation of any commercial 
relationship you have with Amazon or MGM. This will help us to better understand your 
views.  
We would be happy to receive your response by email, or have a discussion with you over 


the phone or via Microsoft Teams.   
How you can engage 
This matter is public and you can forward this email to anybody who may be interested. 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public Mergers 
Register. 
If you would like to comment in writing, please do so by 12pm 19 November by return 
email. Alternatively, email or call me on marisa.kuhlewein@accc.gov.au / (07) 3835 4668 or 
contact Annabel Garrard at Annabel.garrard@accc.gov.au, if you prefer to set up a time to 
discuss or if you need more time to respond. 
Confidentiality 
The ACCC treats sensitive information it receives during a merger review as confidential, and 
will not publish your submission. We will not disclose submissions to third parties (except 
our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of 
information legislation or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the 
Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, we will notify you in advance where possible so that you have an opportunity 
to be heard. Therefore, please clearly indicate if any information you provide is confidential. 
Our Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on 
confidentiality. 
 
If you have any questions, please let me know. 
Kind regards 
 
Marisa Kuhlewein 
