Louis Dreyfus Company – proposed acquisition of Namoi 
 
Page 1 of 22 
 
Statement of Issues 
16 May 2024 
 Louis Dreyfus Company Asia Pte. Ltd. – proposed acquisition 
of Namoi Cotton Limited  
Purpose 
1. 
Louis Dreyfus Company Asia Pte. Ltd (LDC) proposes to acquire Namoi Cotton 
Limited (Namoi) (the proposed acquisition).  
2. 
This Statement of Issues: 
• 
gives the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission’s (ACCC) 
preliminary views on competition issues arising from the proposed 
acquisition 
• 
identifies areas of further inquiry 
• 
outlines a proposed s87B undertaking from LDC 
• 
invites interested parties to submit comments and information to assist 
our assessment of the issues and the proposed s87B undertaking. 
3. 
Statements of Issues do not refer to confidential information provided by the 
parties or other market participants and therefore may not fully articulate the 
ACCC’s preliminary position. 
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views 
4. 
In considering the proposed acquisition, the ACCC applies the legal test set out 
in section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the CCA). In general 
terms, section 50 prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to 
have the effect, of substantially lessening competition in any market. 
5. 
The ACCC divides its preliminary views into three categories, 'issues of concern', 
'issues that may raise concerns' and ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’. In this 
Statement of Issues there are two ‘issues of concern’ and two ‘issues that may 
raise concerns’.  


Louis Dreyfus Company – proposed acquisition of Namoi 
 
Page 2 of 22 
Issues of concern 
• 
The ACCC is concerned about a loss in competition for the supply of 
ginning services to growers in the north of Western Australia and Northern 
Territory, given that LDC will be involved in the management and operation 
of both gins in this region. 
• 
The ACCC is concerned about a loss in competition for the provision of 
cotton lint classing services, given that post acquisition LDC will hold a 20 
per cent interest in ProClass Pty Ltd (ProClass) as well as 100 per cent of 
Australian Classing Services Pty Ltd (ACS). 
Issues that may raise concerns 
• 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition may provide LDC 
with the ability and incentive to leverage LDC’s position in cotton ginning to 
foreclose or frustrate competing cotton lint and/or seed merchants. LDC 
may subsequently be able to reduce the price it pays to growers for cotton 
lint and/or seed. 
• 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition may result in LDC 
having the ability to foreclose third-party access to its warehousing 
services for the export of cotton out of the Port of Brisbane. This may have 
the effect of substantially lessening competition in the acquisition of 
cotton lint, given that warehousing services are a critical input to 
competing cotton merchants. 
Issues unlikely to raise concerns 
6. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to 
substantially lessen competition in the supply of ginning services in regional 
areas in NSW and Queensland because post-acquisition, LDC would be 
constrained by other suppliers of ginning services. 
Making a submission 
7. 
The ACCC invites submissions from interested parties, particularly on the 
following key issues: 
• 
the likelihood the proposed acquisition would result in a reduction in 
competition for growers seeking ginning services in the north of Western 
Australia and Northern Territory region 
• 
the likelihood the proposed acquisition would result in higher prices or 
reduced quality for cotton lint classing services in Australia 
• 
the likelihood the proposed acquisition would provide LDC with the ability 
and incentive to leverage its position in ginning to anti-competitively 
foreclose rival merchants’ access to cotton lint and/or seed, and 


Louis Dreyfus Company – proposed acquisition of Namoi 
 
Page 3 of 22 
• 
the likelihood the proposed acquisition would enable LDC to foreclose 
access to its warehousing services or raise prices for its warehousing 
services for the export of cotton out of the Port of Brisbane. 
8. 
The ACCC is also seeking views on a proposed s87B undertaking offered by 
LDC. Further information on the proposed undertaking can be found at the end of 
this document. 
9. 
Interested parties should provide submissions by 5pm on 30 May 2024. 
Responses may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: Submission 
re: LDC’s proposed acquisition of Namoi.  
10. 
The ACCC anticipates making a final decision on 11 July 2024, however, this 
timeline can change. To keep up with possible timing changes and to find 
relevant documents, interested parties should visit the Mergers Register on the 
ACCC's website at www.accc.gov.au/publicregisters/mergers-registers/public-
informal-merger-reviews. 
Confidentiality of submissions 
11. 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We 
will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) 
unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation 
or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the CCA. Where 
the ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, the ACCC will notify 
you in advance where possible so that you may have an opportunity to be heard. 
Therefore, please identify any confidential information that is provided to the 
ACCC. Our Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information 
on confidentiality. 
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’ 
12. 
A Statement of Issues is not a final decision about a proposed acquisition. A 
Statement of Issues outlines the ACCC’s preliminary views and identifies further 
lines of inquiry. 
13. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties 
(including customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to 
ascertain and consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also 
intended to provide the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis 
for making further submissions should they consider it necessary. 
The parties 
LDC 
14. 
LDC is incorporated in Singapore and is part of the Louis Dreyfus Company 
Group – a global merchant and processor of agricultural goods. In Australia, it 
operates in the origination, ginning, classing, storage, and trading of cotton lint 
and cottonseed, grains and oilseeds. 


Louis Dreyfus Company – proposed acquisition of Namoi 
 
Page 4 of 22 
15. 
LDC operates 3 cotton gins located in Emerald and Dalby (Queensland) and 
Moree (NSW). It supplies cotton warehousing and logistics services with 
facilities in Dalby and at the Port of Brisbane (Queensland) and in Moree (NSW). 
16. 
LDC holds a 20 per cent interest in ProClass, which supplies cotton lint classing 
services. It also has a joint venture with WANT Cotton for the operation and 
management of the WANT gin located near Katherine (NT) (the Katherine gin). 
The ACCC understands the gin has recently become operational.  
Namoi  
17. 
Namoi is an ASX-listed company with its business comprising ginning, cotton lint 
classing through its ownership of Australian Classing Services Pty Ltd (ACS), 
cottonseed and cotton lint marketing as well as warehousing and logistics 
services.  
18. 
Namoi operates 10 cotton gins at 9 sites across NSW and Queensland. Namoi is 
also involved in a joint venture with Sundown Pastoral Co Pty Ltd (called the 
Wathagar Ginning Company) with a gin located in the Gwydir Valley (NSW). 
19. 
It has a ~17 per cent interest in the Kimberley Cotton Company (KCC), which will 
operate a multiuser cotton gin in Kununurra (WA) (the Kununurra gin). The gin’s 
construction is due to be completed in July 2025. 
LDC and Namoi joint ventures 
20. 
LDC has 2 joint venture arrangements in place with Namoi – the Namoi Cotton 
Alliance (the NCA) and the Namoi Cotton Marketing Alliance (the NCMA). 
21. 
The NCA (of which LDC holds a 49 per cent interest, with Namoi holding 51 per 
cent) stores and transports cotton lint bales through its warehousing facilities. It 
also provides agricultural commodities packing services. It has warehouse 
facilities in Wee Waa, Warren and Goondiwindi. All of its facilities have rail 
access. 
22. 
The NCMA (of which LDC holds an 85 per cent interest, with Namoi holding the 
remaining 15 per cent) is involved in the trading and marketing of cotton lint. 
Namoi exclusively supplies all cotton lint bales acquired by it to the NCMA and 
the NCMA exclusively supplies its services to Namoi. 


Louis Dreyfus Company – proposed acquisition of Namoi 
 
Page 5 of 22 
Industry background 
Australian cotton production and supply chain 
23. 
Figure 1 below provides a basic overview of the cotton supply chain in Australia. 
Figure 1: Basic cotton supply chain in Australia 
 
24. 
As shown above cotton is ginned, then the lint and seed are sold to merchants 
for use domestically or for export. There are approximately 14 cotton merchants 
currently operating in Australia, many of which, are vertically integrated, 
including: 
• 
LDC and Namoi 
• 
Australian Food and Fibre (AFF) – which supplies ginning services, cotton 
lint classing services, warehousing and acquires and markets cotton lint 
and cottonseed 
• 
Brighann – which supplies ginning services, warehousing and acquires and 
markets cotton lint and cottonseed, and 
• 
Olam (Queensland Cotton) – which supplies ginning services, cotton lint 
classing services (through a 20 per cent share in ProClass), warehousing 
and acquires and markets cotton lint and cottonseed.  
Cotton growing and transportation 
25. 
Cotton is grown in NSW, Queensland and more recently, in the north of Western 
Australia and Northern Territory.1 There are around 1500 cotton farms in 
Australia,2 ranging from large corporations to small individual farmers. Due to 
variable weather conditions, cotton production figures in Australia change, 
ranging from 0.5 million bales to 6 million bales per annum. In the 2023/24 
season the vast majority of cotton was grown in NSW (337,000 ha) and 
 
 
1 Map of Cotton Gins in Australia is included as Annexure A. 
2 Cotton Australia, Industry Overview, accessed 2 May 2024, https://cottonaustralia.com.au/industry-
overview#:~:text=than%2012%2C000%20people.-,Farms,Australia%20and%20the%20Northern%20Territory.  


Louis Dreyfus Company – proposed acquisition of Namoi 
 
Page 6 of 22 
Queensland (122,000 ha), with only a very small crop in Western Australia (2,500 
ha).  
26. 
Cotton is planted in spring and harvested in autumn. Raw cotton is packed into 
modules or round bales on the farm after harvesting and then transported to 
cotton gins. Raw cotton is generally transported using 2,400kg round modules 
(around 4.2 bales per round). 
Cotton ginning 
27. 
Once the raw cotton is transported to a cotton gin, the ginning process 
separates cotton lint from cottonseed. Cotton gins are generally located in the 
cotton growing regions and serve the growers in those regions. 
28. 
Growers will select a gin in their region to process their cotton, although 
sometimes the gin may be predetermined if a grower has entered into a bundled 
cotton lint forward contract with a vertically integrated merchant. It is typically 
the growers who are responsible for organising transport to the gin. Growers 
may transact with more than one gin to diversify risk. 
29. 
Different types of contracts are available for growers for ginning services: 
• 
gross ginning contracts – the grower pays for the ginning services and 
retains title to the cotton lint and cotton seed 
• 
gin for seed contracts – the price of cottonseed is offset against the cost 
of ginning services. The grower retains title to the cotton lint and sells the 
cottonseed to the ginner, and 
• 
gin for seed and lint contracts – the price of cotton lint and cottonseed is 
offset against the cost of ginning services. 
Cotton lint classing 
30. 
At the conclusion of the ginning process, a sample is collected from both sides 
of each bale of cotton lint and sent for classing. Typically, the merchant 
nominates and pays its chosen classing house. Classing may be undertaken by a 
Classing a High Volume Instrument (HVI) machine or manually by a specially 
trained classer. Cotton lint prices are then based on the grade received. 
Acquisition and marketing of cotton lint and cottonseed 
31. 
As set out above, there are different contract types for obtaining cotton lint and 
cottonseed between growers and merchants. In addition to the contract types 
outlined above, merchants can enter into contracts purely for the acquisition of 
the cotton lint or cottonseed (ex gin).  
32. 
Cotton lint is traditionally sold from the gin either as a forward sale in the future 
(before the quality of the cotton is known), or as a spot sale once it has been 
ginned and classed. 40-60 per cent of Australian cotton lint is forward sold by 
growers ahead of planting and 10-30 per cent is sold forward for the following 
crop year(s). Around 20-30 per cent is sold on a spot basis. 


Louis Dreyfus Company – proposed acquisition of Namoi 
 
Page 7 of 22 
Warehousing and export 
33. 
Merchants take delivery of the bales of lint at the gin and organise delivery to 
warehouses and ports of export. Some merchants have their own warehousing 
and logistics services, while others rely entirely on third-party logistics suppliers. 
Given merchants acquire bales from across growing regions, even those 
merchants with their own logistics capabilities may use third-party suppliers.  
34. 
The key export channels for cotton are: 
• 
Port of Brisbane – usually cotton lint and cottonseed from central 
Queensland, Darling Downs, St George/Dirranbandi, Border Rivers and 
some volumes from the Gwydir Valley 
• 
Port Botany (Sydney) – usually cotton lint and cottonseed from Namoi 
Valley, Macquarie Valley, Gwydir Valley and Bourke, and 
• 
Port of Melbourne – usually cotton lint and cottonseed from the Riverina, 
Bourke, and some volumes from Namoi Valley and Macquarie Valley. 
35. 
Market feedback is that the Port of Darwin will likely be a future export channel 
for cotton grown in the north of Western Australia and Northern Territory. 
The proposed transaction 
36. 
LDC proposes to acquire Namoi by way of an off-market takeover bid. LDC 
already holds a ~17 per cent shareholding in Namoi. 
Future with and without the acquisition  
37. 
In assessing a proposed acquisition under section 50 of the CCA, the ACCC 
considers the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future state of 
competition if the acquisition proceeds (the ’with’ position) to the likely future 
state of competition if the acquisition does not proceed (the ‘without’ position) 
to determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to substantially lessen 
competition in any relevant market. 
38. 
On the basis of the information currently available, the ACCC considers that 
absent the proposed acquisition Namoi will continue to operate its business. 
Previous ACCC decisions 
LDC’s acquisition of certain stock and assets of Namoi 
39. 
On 13 March 2013, the ACCC decided not to oppose LDC’s acquisition of 13 per 
cent of the capital stock in Namoi and a 49 per cent interest in Namoi’s cotton 
marketing, packing and warehouse and logistics services business. The ACCC 
concluded the acquisition was unlikely to substantially lessen competition in: 
• 
the national market for the acquisition of cotton lint and the global market 
for the sale of cotton lint 


Louis Dreyfus Company – proposed acquisition of Namoi 
 
Page 8 of 22 
• 
the national markets for the acquisition and sale of cottonseed, and 
• 
regional markets for the supply of ginning services. 
40. 
The ACCC determined the acquisition would be unlikely to raise competition 
concerns in the markets for the acquisition and sale of cotton lint and 
cottonseed due to the continued presence of competitors and the ease of entry 
and expansion for other agricultural commodities traders not currently in cotton. 
41. 
The ACCC determined the acquisition was also unlikely to enable LDC or Namoi 
to leverage Namoi’s ginning assets to foreclose rival merchants’ access to 
cotton as Namoi would continue to be constrained by other gin operators. 
Market definition 
42. 
The ACCC’s starting point for considering which markets will be affected by the 
proposed acquisition is to identify the areas of overlap between the products 
actually or potentially supplied by the merger parties. The ACCC then considers 
other actual or potential suppliers of those products, as well as what other 
products constitute sufficiently close substitutes to provide a significant source 
of constraint on the merged entity. 
43. 
LDC and Namoi overlap in the supply of ginning services, cotton lint classing 
services, logistics and warehousing services, and the acquisition and marketing 
of cotton lint and cotton seed. 
44. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the markets relevant for assessing the 
competition effects of the proposed acquisition are: 
• 
a regional market for the supply of ginning services to growers in the north 
of Western Australia and Northern Territory 
• 
the supply of cotton lint classing services in Australia 
• 
the supply of warehousing for cotton to be exported out of the Port of 
Brisbane, and 
• 
national markets for the acquisition and marketing of cotton lint and 
cotton seed. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary views about 
the definition of the relevant markets. In particular, market participants may wish to 
comment on: 
• 
the relevant geographic dimension of the market for the supply of ginning services 
in the north of Western Australia and Northern Territory, and 
• 
the relevant geographic dimension of the market for the supply of warehousing 
services for cotton. 


Louis Dreyfus Company – proposed acquisition of Namoi 
 
Page 9 of 22 
Issue of concern: LDC’s ability to raise prices in the supply of 
ginning services in the north of Western Australia and the 
Northern Territory region 
45. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that that the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in the supply of ginning services to growers in 
the north of Western Australia and Northern Territory region. The ACCC has 
concerns that post-acquisition LDC’s interests in both the Katherine and 
Kununurra gins may give rise to competition concerns for growers in 
circumstances where: 
• 
when operational, the two gins will be the closest geographic competitors 
for growers located in the north of Western Australia and the Northern 
Territory  
• 
LDC’s interests in both gins as an operator, along with its minority equity 
interest in the Kununurra gin, could lead to a lessening of incentives for 
competition for customers, and 
• 
barriers to entry are likely to be high. 
Alternative suppliers of ginning services in the north of Western Australia and the 
Northern Territory region 
46. 
Growers in the Katherine and Kununurra growing regions currently transport their 
raw cotton approximately 3,000km to gins in Queensland, due to a lack of 
operational gins in their growing regions. Market feedback indicates that the 
closest of these gins are located in Dalby and Emerald. LDC owns and operates 
one of the two gins in Emerald, and one of the three gins in Dalby.  
47. 
Once the Katherine and Kununurra gins are operational, these gins will be by far 
the closest choice for growers in the region. Therefore, despite the fact that the 
gins themselves will be approximately 500km apart, due to the regions’ isolation 
from Queensland, the ACCC considers the gins in Katherine and Kununurra are 
likely to be each other’s closest competitors. 
48. 
The ACCC does note that bio-security rules currently prevent the transport of raw 
cotton from the Northern Territory to Western Australia. Therefore, competition 
between the two gins is likely to be asymmetric in that Northern Territory 
growers will not be able to access the Kununurra gin. However, West Australian 
growers will be able to utilise the Katherine gin and market feedback suggests 
that they are exploring the ability to do so already.  
49. 
Market feedback at this stage also indicates that the Port of Darwin is likely to 
be used as the main export port for cotton lint coming out of the Katherine and 
Kununurra gins. In order to export through this port, cotton originating from the 
Kununurra growing region will have to pass through Katherine (due to the road 
network) on the way to port, which increases the likelihood that Kununurra 
growers will see the Katherine gin as an alternative supplier of ginning services. 
50. 
The ACCC is concerned that post-acquisition, given its interest in both gins, and 
the fact that some of the next closest gins in Queensland are also operated by 


Louis Dreyfus Company – proposed acquisition of Namoi 
 
Page 10 of 22 
LDC, LDC would be able to significantly reduce competition for ginning services 
which could result in higher prices for growers.  
LDC’s interests raise competition concerns 
51. 
Post-acquisition LDC would hold a ~17 per cent shareholding in KCC, the 
company owning the Kununurra gin and will also be responsible for operating the 
gin. In Katherine, LDC has a joint venture agreement in place for the operation of 
the gin in conjunction with WANT Cotton.  
52. 
Through these interests, the ACCC is concerned that LDC may be able to 
influence the competitive dynamics for the supply of ginning services to growers 
in the region. The ACCC will continue to explore the extent of influence LDC may 
be able to exert post-acquisition. 
Barriers to entry are high 
53. 
The ACCC considers that despite the recent plans for the entry of new gins, 
barriers to entry in the short to medium term are likely to be high. Gins are 
specialised infrastructure and require significant time, capital and expertise to 
establish. Market feedback indicates that the cost of a new gin could be as 
much as $80 million. 
54. 
As the industry in the north of Western Australia and the Northern Territory is 
fledgling, market feedback indicates it would be unlikely that there will be 
sufficient supply of cotton and thus sufficient demand for the entry of a new gin 
in the north of Western Australia and the Northern Territory region in the short to 
medium term. Market feedback indicates the gins at Katherine and Kununurra 
are likely to reach capacity when they are processing approximately 250,000 
bales per ginning period. Cotton production forecasts for the region indicate that 
there will be insufficient cotton grown to exceed the capacity of two gins in the 
region in the foreseeable future. Therefore, the ACCC considers that the 
likelihood of new entry is low. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to 
the supply of ginning services in the north of Western Australia and Northern Territory 
region.  In particular, market participants may wish to comment on the following: 
• 
the extent to which the Katherine and Kununurra gins will compete for customers 
from WA and NT 
• 
whether the interests held by LDC relating to the ginning operations are likely to 
raise concerns because of the potential for reduced competitive tension between 
the two gins, and 
• 
the height of barriers to entry and likelihood of new entry in supplying cotton 
ginning services to growers in the north of Western Australia and Northern 
Territory region. 


Louis Dreyfus Company – proposed acquisition of Namoi 
 
Page 11 of 22 
Issue of concern: LDC’s ability to raise prices in the supply of 
cotton lint classing services in Australia 
55. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in the supply of cotton lint classing services in 
Australia. The ACCC has concerns that post-acquisition the overlapping 
ownership of ProClass and ACS may give rise to competition concerns for 
customers because: 
• 
there would be only one alternative option for cotton lint classing services 
• 
there would be an increased risk of coordination 
• 
there would be an increased risk of the removal of visual classing as an 
option for growers 
• 
the common ownership could lessen incentives for competition for 
customers, and 
• 
there are high barriers to entry. 
There is limited competition from alternative suppliers 
56. 
The ACCC is concerned LDC would be able to raise prices for cotton lint classing 
services in Australia due to the lack of viable alternatives. Post-acquisition, LDC 
would have ownership interests in both ProClass and ACS, which together 
currently class more than 80 per cent of all cotton lint in Australia. 
57. 
Market feedback is that there is only one alternative supplier of cotton lint 
classing services in Australia outside of ProClass and ACS, being AFF. However, 
this same feedback also indicates the classing services operated by AFF is 
generally used to class its own cotton lint, and is not available to third parties. 
Therefore, the ACCC considers that the competitive constraint from AFF would 
be limited. 
58. 
Post-acquisition, LDC would control 20 per cent of ProClass and 100 per cent of 
ACS. Market participants are concerned that, as a result of the proposed 
acquisition, growers would be required to use a service related to LDC. 
59. 
Despite the fact that LDC’s interest in ProClass would be a minority interest, the 
ACCC is concerned that the cross-shareholdings between ProClass and ACS 
have the potential to reduce competition. At present, with ACS being wholly 
owned by Namoi, it is constrained from raising prices or reducing service quality 
through the risk of customers switching to ProClass. Post-acquisition, the 
constraint would be lowered, as if ACS raises prices LDC would capture at least 
some of the lost profits of lost customers through its shareholding in ProClass. 
60. 
In addition, the ACCC is concerned that the cross shareholdings will increase the 
risk of coordination between the two suppliers, which could lead to increased 
prices, or a reduction in the quality of the services provided. Some market 
participants are particularly concerned about the potential for the removal of 
visual classing from the industry, which some growers have indicated is 


Louis Dreyfus Company – proposed acquisition of Namoi 
 
Page 12 of 22 
valuable. The ACCC is continuing to explore in detail the extent of control or 
influence LDC could exercise on ProClass post-acquisition. 
Barriers to entry are high 
61. 
Barriers to entry in the classing market are likely to be high and the possibility of 
new entry low. The cost of starting a classing business is significant, with HVI 
machines (which complete machine classing) cost approximately $400,000. 
Market feedback is that cotton lint classing is a high volume, low margin 
product, with classers currently charging $2-3 per bale. Market feedback is that 
existing customer relationships and reliability in the classing service provided 
are important to acquiring and maintaining market share. Accordingly, given the 
relative size of incumbents Proclass and ACS, the ACCC considers that entry 
would be unlikely given the difficulties a new entrant would face in achieving 
profitability. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to 
the supply of cotton lint classing services in Australia.  In particular, market 
participants may wish to comment on the following: 
• 
market concentration and the extent to which there would be alternative suppliers 
of cotton list classing services available post-acquisition 
• 
whether the minority overlapping interests are likely to mitigate competition 
concerns, and 
• 
the height of barriers to entry and likelihood of new entry in supplying cotton lint 
classing services.  
Issue that may raise concerns: LDC’s ability and incentive to 
foreclose rival merchants’ access to cotton lint 
62. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition may provide LDC 
with the ability and incentive to foreclose or frustrate competing cotton 
merchants’ access to cotton lint and seed, substantially lessening competition in 
these markets. 
63. 
Ginned cotton lint and seed is an important input for merchants who need to 
acquire it in order to fill downstream orders from users. Competition between 
merchants is important to the prices paid to growers in Australia for their cotton. 
The ACCC is concerned that a substantial lessening of competition in the supply 
of cotton lint merchant services, as a result of foreclosure or frustration, could 
result in lower prices paid to growers for their cotton lint and seed. 
64. 
The proposed acquisition will significantly increase LDC’s presence in cotton 
ginning in Australia, and combined with the horizontal aggregation in the north of 
Western Australia and Northern Territory region, the aggregation on the east 
coast adds to the ability of LDC to implement any tying foreclosure strategy. LDC 
will move from owning and operating three gins, to a total of thirteen gins across 
Queensland and New South Wales (excluding the Kununurra and Katherine gins), 
increasing its total share of ginning volume in Australia to approximately 30 per 
cent. The proposed acquisition will mean that LDC becomes one of the largest 


Louis Dreyfus Company – proposed acquisition of Namoi 
 
Page 13 of 22 
ginners in Australia, and combined with its already significant presence in cotton 
lint and seed marketing (both in Australia and internationally) may provide LDC 
with both the ability and incentive to foreclose competing merchants’ access to 
cotton lint and seed. 
65. 
The ACCC has heard concerns that the operation of gins is an important 
pathway to securing cotton lint and seed for trading.  
66. 
Market participants submit that ginners have increased visibility of cotton 
contracts, as growers must provide the gin with details of who it has sold its 
cotton lint to, so that it can be set aside post ginning for the correct merchant to 
collect it. These market participants submit that this provides the gin with 
superior visibility over which cotton lint remains uncontracted, and where certain 
cotton growers lint is being sold over time. As a ginner’s market share increases, 
the volume and depth of this information increases. Some market participants 
consider that this gives integrated ginners important information to target and 
sell their services, which is not available to other competitors. 
67. 
Market participants have also pointed to the ability of vertically integrated 
operators to provide packaged ginning and merchant offers to growers to secure 
their business. These market participants are concerned that post acquisition, as 
LDC increases its presence in ginning, it will be able to tie the provision of 
ginning and merchant contracts to one another and prevent non-integrated 
merchants competing for cotton lint and seed processed at what are currently 
Namoi’s gins. 
68. 
In addition to concern about tying strategies, market feedback also suggests 
frustration could occur by LDC raising the price or worsening the quality of 
ginning services for rival merchants. As a result, rival merchants may need to 
pass the higher quality-adjusted cost of ginning service at LDC gins onto cotton 
growers in the form of lower prices for cotton lint. 
69. 
The ACCC notes that many market participants have submitted that at present 
contracts for ginning cotton and the downstream merchanting of lint and seed 
are typically separate agreements. However, the ACCC is concerned that the 
proposed acquisition would lead to a significant change in market structure, 
such that the three largest ginners in Australia in LDC, AFF and Olam would be 
fully vertically integrated, which may in turn lead to an incentive to alter the way 
in which contracts for ginning and merchanting are negotiated and increase the 
likelihood of frustration or foreclosure of non-integrated merchants.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to 
LDC’s ability to foreclose competing cotton merchants.  In particular, market 
participants may wish to comment on the following: 
• 
the likelihood that LDC could implement tying strategies forcing growers to acquire 
both ginning and marketing services from it 
• 
contracting dynamics for cotton ginning services and the sale of cotton lint from 
growers to merchants, and 
• 
the importance of cotton ginned at Namoi gins as a source of cotton lint for non-
integrated cotton merchants. 


Louis Dreyfus Company – proposed acquisition of Namoi 
 
Page 14 of 22 
Issue that may raise concerns: LDC’s ability to foreclose 
access to or increase prices for warehousing services for the 
export of cotton out of the Port of Brisbane 
70. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition may result in LDC 
having the ability to foreclose third-party access to its warehousing services for 
the export of cotton out of the Port of Brisbane. This may have the effect of 
substantially lessening competition in the supply of cotton lint merchant 
services, given that warehousing services are a critical input to competing in this 
market. As a result, growers may receive lower prices for their cotton lint.  
71. 
As a result of the acquisition LDC will acquire Namoi’s existing warehousing and 
logistics network for the export of cotton out of the Port of Brisbane. Post-
acquisition, LDC will control at least 30 per cent of the warehouse storage 
facilities for the export of cotton out of the Port of Brisbane. The ACCC is 
concerned that post-acquisition, LDC may refuse to supply available 
warehousing capacity or raise the price of warehousing to third party merchants. 
Both outcomes would either inhibit the ability or increase the cost to merchants 
of acquiring cotton lint from growers. 
72. 
The ACCC has received mixed feedback regarding barriers to entry for 
warehousing. Some market participants have pointed to the significant capital 
outlay required to establish warehousing, and noted that it is likely prohibitive. 
However, other participants have indicated that warehouses used for cotton 
bales prior to export are not specialised and can likely be acquired with minimal 
capital outlay. The ACCC has also heard that cotton lint can also be stored for 
long periods without issue, and that the particular warehouse location is not 
critical (i.e. the warehouse does not need to be at the Port of Brisbane).  
73. 
The ACCC will continue to consider the importance of NCA’s existing 
warehousing services to the industry and the likelihood that third parties can 
develop their own warehousing for the export of cotton out of the Port of 
Brisbane. The ACCC will also continue to consider barriers to entry including the 
availability of land at/near the Port of Brisbane and for upcountry sites, access to 
major road and rail corridors to port, as well any strategic barriers to entry 
associated with incumbency advantage.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the impact of the proposed 
acquisition on the supply of warehousing services for cotton to be exported out of the 
Port of Brisbane. In particular, market participants may wish to comment on the 
following: 
• 
the availability of other third-party warehousing services for cotton merchants (i) at 
or near the Port of Brisbane, and (ii) up-country in the Port of Brisbane cotton 
export supply chain  
• 
the likely revenues expected from operating warehousing assets, particularly for 
the Port of Brisbane 


Louis Dreyfus Company – proposed acquisition of Namoi 
 
Page 15 of 22 
• 
the height of barriers to entry to self-supply warehousing and related logistic 
services (i) at or near the Port of Brisbane, and (ii) up-country in the Port of 
Brisbane cotton export supply chain 
• 
the availability of suitable land at or near the Port of Brisbane with access to major 
road and rail corridors to the Port of Brisbane from up-country sites 
• 
the advantages and disadvantages for cotton merchants of filling export 
shipments from warehousing services at or near the relevant port as opposed to 
up-country warehouses, particularly for the Port of Brisbane, and 
• 
the ability to recoup investment costs on new warehousing services for cotton and 
the ability for incumbent suppliers to price strategically in response to new entry. 
Proposed s87B undertaking 
74. 
LDC has initiated discussions with the ACCC regarding a proposed undertaking 
pursuant to section 87B of the Act. LDC considers this proposed s87B 
undertaking addresses the competition concerns raised during the ACCC’s initial 
market inquiries.  
75. 
The ACCC has not formed a view as to whether any competition concerns are 
capable of being addressed by the proposed s87B undertaking. The ACCC will 
not accept an undertaking if it is not satisfied that it will address the ACCC’s 
competition concerns.  
76. 
LDC proposes to offer a court enforceable undertaking to the ACCC to address 
the ACCC’s competition concerns with respect to the supply of classing services 
in Australia and the supply of ginning services in north-western Australia. The 
proposal includes LDC commitments to: 
• divest of its shareholding in Proclass 
• the termination of the WANT Agreement 
  (the Proposed Divestment) 
77. 
A public submission by LDC regarding the Proposed Divestment is included at 
Annexure B.  The ACCC has summarised some key features of the Proposed 
Divestment below but market participants should also have regard to LDC’s 
Submission. 
Proclass 
78. 
LDC submits that Proclass’ governance structure establishes the process for any 
existing shareholder wanting to divest of its shares in Proclass. LDC proposes to 
initiate this process to exit its shareholding in Proclass (Proclass exit process) 
should it be successful in obtaining control of Namoi.  
79. 
LDC proposes that, at the time that LDC initiates the Proclass exit process, the 
LDC director will resign from the Proclass board. LDC Submits that the corporate 
governance of Proclass will ensure that at the completion of the transfer 
process, LDC will no longer have an ownership interest in Proclass.  


Louis Dreyfus Company – proposed acquisition of Namoi 
 
Page 16 of 22 
WANT Cotton 
80. 
LDC proposes to exercise its unilateral right to terminate the WANT Agreement 
in accordance with the terms of the WANT Agreement should it be successful in 
obtaining control of Namoi.  
81. 
LDC submits that the Proposed Divestment will facilitate WANT Cotton’s 
continued independent operations and, in accordance with notice period under 
the terms of the WANT Agreement, will provide sufficient time for WANT to enter 
into any new arrangements for the operation of the WANT gin. 
82. 
The ACCC is continuing its assessment of the proposed acquisition to determine 
whether it would be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening 
competition in any market. The ACCC is therefore currently not in a position to 
form a concluded view as to the efficacy or acceptability of an undertaking of the 
kind being foreshadowed by LDC in the form of the Proposed Divestment. 
83. 
In the interests of streamlining the process, the ACCC is seeking feedback on the 
key terms of the Proposed Divestment. In particular, whether and to what extent 
the Proposed Divestment is capable of addressing the competition concerns 
raised by the proposed acquisition. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on LDC’s Proposed Divestment. 
In particular, market participants may wish to comment on the following: 
• 
To what extent would LDC’s Proposed Divestment address any concerns you have 
in relation to the proposed acquisition? 
• 
Is the Proposed Divestment sufficient to replace any loss of competition resulting 
from the proposed acquisition? 
• 
Are you aware of any third party (including regulatory) consents required to effect 
the Proposed Divestment that may impact its implementation? 
• 
Are there any other factors or risks that could effect implementation or limit the 
effectiveness of the Proposed Divestment? 
• 
Any additional information or comments that you consider relevant to the ACCC’s 
consideration of the Proposed Divestment. 
 
ACCC's future steps 
84. 
As noted above, the ACCC invites submissions from market participants on each 
of the issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that 
may be relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. Submissions should 
be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au by no later than 5pm on 30 May 2024. 
85. 
The ACCC is also seeking views on the proposed s87B undertaking offered by 
LDC in relation to its proposed acquisition of Namoi. 


Louis Dreyfus Company – proposed acquisition of Namoi 
 
Page 17 of 22 
86. 
The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions 
invited by this Statement of Issues and on the proposed divestiture. 
87. 
The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 11 July 2024. However, 
the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Informal Merger Review 
Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment explaining the ACCC's 
final view may be published following the ACCC's public announcement.


Louis Dreyfus Company – proposed acquisition of Namoi 
 
Page 18 of 22 
Annexure A – Map of Cotton Gins in Australia 
 
 


Louis Dreyfus Company – proposed acquisition of Namoi 
 
Page 19 of 22 
Annexure B – LDC Public Summary of undertakings proposed 
to the ACCC 


Public summary of undertakings proposed to the ACCC – 13 May 2024 
 
13/05/2024 22:07 
ASIA 37779040 v1 [Public summary of section 87B undertaking 13 
May to ACCC(37779040.1).docx] 
 
 
 
The Proposed Acquisition  
Louis Dreyfus Company Asia Pte. Ltd. (LDC), through its subsidiary, Louis Dreyfus Company 
Melbourne Holdings Pty Ltd, is proposing to acquire all of the fully paid ordinary shares in Namoi Cotton 
Limited (Namoi) that it does not already own (Proposed Acquisition). LDC currently holds 
approximately 17% of the shares in Namoi.  
Public summary of section 87B undertaking  
The information set out below provides a public summary of the section 87B undertaking Louis Dreyfus 
Company B.V. and its relevant subsidiaries propose to give to the Australian Competition and 
Consumer Commission (ACCC). 
LDC does not consider that the Proposed Acquisition would have the effect, or be likely to have the 
effect, of substantially lessening competition in any relevant market. However, to address the ACCC’s 
competition concerns, LDC has offered commitments pursuant to section 87B of the Competition and 
Consumer Act 2010 (Cth) (Act).  
The Parties 
LDC 
LDC is incorporated in Singapore and is part of the LDC Group – a global merchant and processor of 
agricultural goods. LDC operates in the sourcing, ginning, storage, shipment and trading/marketing of 
cotton lint and cottonseed. 
LDC operates three cotton gins located in Emerald and Dalby (Qld) and Moree (NSW). It supplies cotton 
warehousing and logistics services with facilities in Dalby and Port of Brisbane (Qld) and Moree (NSW). 
LDC holds a minority 20% interest in Proclass, which is an independent business that provides cotton 
lint classing services in Australia.  
It also has an unincorporated joint venture with WANT Cotton for the operation and management of the 
WANT gin located near Katherine (NT) (WANT Agreement).  
Namoi 
Namoi’s business comprises of cotton ginning, sourcing of cotton lint, cottonseed marketing and cotton 
lint classing. 
Namoi operates 10 cotton gins at 9 sites across NSW and Qld. Namoi is also involved in a joint venture 
with Sundown Pastoral Co Pty Ltd (called the Wathagar Ginning Company) with a gin located in the 
Gwydir Valley (NSW). 
Namoi also operates Australian Classing Services Pty Ltd (ACS) providing cotton classing to both 
Namoi and other cotton processors in Australia.  
It has a 17% interest in the Kimberley Cotton Company, which will operate a multi-user cotton gin in 
Kununurra (WA) due to be completed in July 2025. 
LDC and Namoi also operate joint ventures for: (i) the storage and warehousing of cotton lint; (ii) the 
trading and marketing of cotton lint. 
The Proposed Divestment Undertaking 
LDC proposes to offer a court enforceable undertaking to the ACCC to address the ACCC’s competition 
concerns with respect to the supply of classing services in Australia and the supply of ginning services 
in north-western Australia. The proposal will include LDC committing to: 


 
 
13/05/2024 22:07 
ASIA 37779040 v1 [Public summary of section 87B undertaking 13 
May to ACCC(37779040.1).docx] 
2 
 
 
• 
divest of its shareholding in Proclass 
• 
the termination of the WANT Agreement 
 
(the Proposed Divestment). 
 
Implementation of the Proposed Divestment 
 
Proclass 
 
Proclass is an independent business that provides cotton classing services in Australia. It operates in 
accordance with its corporate governance structure. Its ownership structure of 40% cotton growers, 
40% cotton merchants and 20% classers ensures that no single ownership group has a majority stake. 
The board of directors currently comprises 2 grower, 2 merchant and one classer director. LDC currently 
holds 20% of the shares in Proclass, which is half of the shares held by cotton merchants and has one 
director on the board. LDC has no control over the management or operation of Proclass.  
In addition to the ownership and establishment of the operations of the Proclass business, the Proclass 
governance structure establishes the process for any existing shareholder wanting to divest of its shares 
in Proclass. LDC intends to initiate this process to exit its shareholding in Proclass (Proclass exit 
process) should it be successful in obtaining control of Namoi. 
At the time that LDC initiates the Proclass exit process, the LDC director will resign from the Proclass 
board. The corporate governance of Proclass will ensure that at the completion of the transfer process, 
LDC will no longer have an ownership interest in Proclass.  
Proclass will continue to operate as an independent cotton classing business during and post the 
Proclass exit process. 
WANT  
 
The WANT Agreement provides for LDC’s contribution of its expertise and the day-to-day cotton 
ginning operations at the WANT gin. LDC does not hold an equity interest in the WANT gin. Control 
over the management, market position and strategic direction, including the manner in which WANT 
will compete for the supply of ginning services, is controlled by WANT Cotton.  
 
LDC proposes to exercise its unilateral right to terminate the WANT Agreement in accordance with 
the terms of the WANT Agreement should it be successful in obtaining control of Namoi.  
 
The Proposed Divestment will facilitate WANT Cotton’s continued independent operations and, in 
accordance with notice period under the terms of the WANT Agreement, will provide sufficient time for 
WANT to enter into any new arrangements for the operation of the WANT gin. 
 
The Proposed Divestment addresses the ACCC’s competition concerns 
The supply of cotton lint classing services in Australia 
The Proposed Acquisition would result in LDC holding a 20% minority interest in Proclass and also 
owning Namoi’s classing business – ACS. Proclass and ACS overlap in the supply of cotton lint classing 
services in Australia.  
The ACCC has raised concerns that, as a result of the proposed acquisition, LDC could raise prices or 
reduce service quality for cotton classing services in Australia as growers and cotton merchants would 
be required to use a service under the influence of LDC.  
The Proposed Divestment addresses the ACCC’s competition concerns as LDC would not have any 
overlapping interests in the supply of cotton classing services in Australia. LDC would, through its 
ownership or control of Namoi, operate the ACS classing business in its current operating form. Post 
the initiation of the Proclass exit process and prior to completion of the sale, LDC will have no 


 
 
13/05/2024 22:07 
ASIA 37779040 v1 [Public summary of section 87B undertaking 13 
May to ACCC(37779040.1).docx] 
3 
 
 
involvement in the board including any decision making relating to the Proclass business. Upon 
completion of the Proposed Divestment, LDC will have no ownership interest in Proclass. 
Post the Proposed Divestment, LDC will be involved in the operations of one Australian classing 
business only - each of Proclass and ACS (under the control over LDC) will operate independently in 
the supply cotton classing services in Australia. As a result, there can be no influence over the 
operations of more than one competitor and no adverse effect on competition in the supply of cotton 
classing services in Australia. 
The supply of ginning services in North-Western Australia 
The Proposed Acquisition will result in LDC owning a less than 20% minority interest in KCC and LDC 
would be the contract operator of the KCC gin, subject to the direction of the KCC board of which LDC 
would have no control. LDC would also operate the WANT gin under the WANT Agreement. The WANT 
gin is located near Katherine over 500kms away, operated by LDC under ring-fenced operations.  
The ACCC has raised concerns that the Proposed Acquisition will result in LDC having effective control 
and influence over the only two gins in North-Western Australia. 
The WANT gin is now operational. The cost of ginning services has been determined by WANT Cotton 
for its first season. The WANT gin’s operations are subject to strict ring-fencing protocols that provide 
for the operational and physical separation of financial support and industrial employees involved in its 
operation. This includes LDC WANT dedicated employees based at the gin and the physical separation 
by location of LDC personnel in office roles and management from LDC’s Australian ginning business. 
Technology barriers are in place to ensure that there can be no access to or transfer of information 
between WANT and LDC. 
The KCC gin is still under construction. KCC is targeting completion to enable it to commence ginning 
operations in the second half of 2025.  
In order to ensure the seamless transition and operational handover from LDC of the WANT gin, the 
Proposed Divestment would require a period of continued operation by LDC while LDC is also operating 
the KCC gin (if KCC reaches its targeted timeframe for completion). This is a limited, single ginning 
season timeframe. Where LDC will have no control over the competitive positioning of either gin and 
the WANT gin is subject to ring-fenced operations, there can be no adverse competitive effects 
associated with this very short term overlap.  
The Proposed Divestment will remove any concerns about the extent to which the operation by LDC 
could result in coordination between the WANT and KCC gins and ensure independent operations in 
the region going forward. Post the Proposed Divestment, LDC would hold only an interest in KCC and 
would be the operator of the KCC gin in accordance with the agreements KCC has agreed with Namoi. 
Through its shareholding or operation, LDC will have no control over the management, pricing or 
strategic direction of KCC such that it could adversely influence or control the price of ginning services 
during the transition period. 
The Proposed Divestment will ensure that the Proposed Acquisition will not have the effect, or be likely 
to have the effect, of substantially lessening competition in any relevant market. 
 
