Page 1 of 12 
 
Public Competition Assessment 
11 February 2025 
Louis Dreyfus Company Melbourne Holdings Pty Ltd - 
proposed acquisition of Namoi Cotton Limited 
 
The ACCC’s decision 
1. 
On 1 August 2024 the ACCC announced its decision not to oppose the proposed 
acquisition by Louis Dreyfus Company Melbourne Holdings Pty Ltd (LDC 
Melbourne) of Namoi Cotton Limited (Namoi) (the proposed acquisition) after 
accepting a court-enforceable section 87B undertaking (the Undertaking). 
2. 
The Undertaking requires: 
• the divestment of a shareholding interest in ProClass Pty Ltd (ProClass); 
and 
• the termination of a joint venture agreement with WANT Cotton Pty Ltd 
(WANT). 
3. 
The ACCC considered that the proposed acquisition, in the absence of the 
Undertaking, would be likely to substantially lessen competition in the supply of 
cotton ginning services in the north of Western Australia and the Northern 
Territory, and the supply of cotton lint classing services in Australia, in 
contravention of section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the Act). 
Section 50 of the Act prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect, or be 
likely to have the effect, of substantially lessening competition in any market. 
4. 
The ACCC considers that the Undertaking sufficiently addresses the ACCC’s 
competition concerns in this matter such that the proposed acquisition is 
unlikely to contravene section 50 of the Act.  
5. 
The ACCC considered the competitive effects of the proposed acquisition in the 
following markets:  
• the market for the supply of ginning services in the north of Western 
Australia and the Northern Territory; 


 
Page 2 of 12 
• the market for the supply of cotton lint classing services in Australia; 
• the market for the acquisition and marketing of cotton lint and cottonseed 
from separate cotton growing regions; and 
• the market for the supply of warehousing services for cotton to be 
exported out of the Port of Brisbane. 
6. 
This Public Competition Assessment outlines reasons for the decision by the 
ACCC not to oppose the proposed acquisition, taking into account the 
Undertaking. 
7. 
Please note that this and other public competition assessments are subject to 
the following qualifications: 
• The ACCC considers each transaction on a case-by-case basis and so the 
analysis and decision outlined in one assessment will not necessarily 
reflect the ACCC’s view of another transaction. 
• As assessments are relatively brief and do not refer to confidential 
information, assessments do not necessarily set out all of the issues and 
information considered by the ACCC.  
The parties and the transaction 
The acquirer: LDC Melbourne 
8. 
LDC Melbourne is the holding company for Louis Dreyfus Company’s 
subsidiaries in Australia. For the purposes of this Public Competition 
Assessment, a reference to LDC includes a reference to any or all of LDC 
Melbourne, Louis Dreyfus Company or their related bodies corporate.  
9. 
In Australia, LDC operates in the origination, ginning, classing, storage, and 
trading of cotton lint and cottonseed as well as the merchandising, storage and 
handling of grains and oilseeds. 
10. LDC operates 3 cotton gins located in Emerald and Dalby (Queensland) and 
Moree (NSW). It supplies cotton warehousing and logistics services with 
facilities in Dalby and the Port of Brisbane (Queensland) and Moree (NSW). 
11. LDC has a joint venture with WANT for the operation and management of the 
WANT gin located near Katherine (NT). This gin began operating in May 2024.  
12. LDC also holds a 20% interest in ProClass, which supplies cotton lint classing 
services. 
The target: Namoi 
13. Namoi is an ASX-listed company with business activities in ginning, cotton lint 
classing through its ownership of Australian Classing Services Pty Ltd (ACS), as 
well as cottonseed and cotton lint acquisition and marketing (merchant 
services) and warehousing and logistics services, through its joint ventures. 


 
Page 3 of 12 
14. Namoi operates 10 cotton gins at 9 sites across NSW and Queensland. It is also 
involved in a joint venture with the Wathagar Ginning Company, with a cotton gin 
located in the Gwydir Valley (NSW), and a joint venture with the Moomin Ginning 
Company, with a cotton gin located in the Lower Namoi Valley (NSW). 
15. Namoi has an approximate 17% interest in the Kimberley Cotton Company 
(KCC), which will operate a cotton gin in Kununurra (WA). This cotton gin is due 
to be completed in July 2025. 
16. LDC has two joint venture arrangements in place with Namoi - the Namoi Cotton 
Alliance (NCA), and the Namoi Cotton Marketing Alliance (NCMA). The NCA 
stores and transports cotton lint bales through its warehousing facilities. It has 
warehouse facilities in Wee Waa, Warren and Goondiwindi. The NCMA is 
involved in the trading and marketing of cotton lint. Namoi exclusively supplies 
all cotton lint bales acquired by it to the NCMA; and the NCMA exclusively 
supplies its services to Namoi.  
The proposed acquisition 
17. LDC Melbourne proposes to acquire Namoi by way of an off market takeover 
offer to acquire all of the fully paid ordinary shares of Namoi which LDC does not 
already own. Louis Dreyfus Company Asia Pte. Ltd. held approximately 17% of 
the shareholding in Namoi at the commencement of the ACCC’s review. 
Market inquiries 
18. The ACCC conducted market inquiries with a range of industry participants, 
including competitors, potential competitors, customers, industry bodies and 
other interested parties. Submissions were sought in relation to the potential 
competition issues arising from the proposed acquisition. The ACCC also 
conducted market consultation on a public summary of the Undertaking. The 
ACCC also obtained confidential information and documents from the merger 
parties and interested parties. 
Statement of Issues 
19. On 16 May 2024, the ACCC published a Statement of Issues identifying a number 
of preliminary competition concerns. In the Statement of Issues, the ACCC 
stated its preliminary view that the proposed acquisition would be likely to 
reduce competition and increase prices due to the following issues of concern: 
• the proposed acquisition would result in a loss of competition for the 
supply of ginning services to growers in the north of Western Australia and 
the Northern Territory, given that LDC would be involved in the 
management and operation of both gins in this region; 
• the proposed acquisition would result in a loss of competition for the 
provision of cotton lint classing services, given that post acquisition LDC 
would hold a 20% interest in ProClass as well as 100% of ACS, which 
together currently class more than 80% of all cotton lint in Australia; 


 
Page 4 of 12 
• the proposed acquisition may provide LDC with the ability and incentive to 
leverage its position in cotton ginning to foreclose or frustrate competing 
cotton lint and/or seed merchants. LDC may subsequently be able to 
reduce the price it pays to growers for cotton lint and/or seed; and 
• the proposed acquisition may result in LDC having the ability and incentive 
to foreclose third-party access to its warehousing services for the export 
of cotton out of the Port of Brisbane. This may have the effect of 
substantially lessening competition in the acquisition of cotton lint, given 
that warehousing services are a critical requirement for competing cotton 
merchants. 
Industry background 
Australian cotton production and supply chain 
20. Figure 1 below provides a basic overview of the cotton supply chain in Australia. 
Figure 1: Basic cotton supply chain in Australia 
 
21. As shown above, cotton is ginned then the lint and seed are sold to merchants 
for use domestically or for export. There are approximately 20 cotton lint and/or 
seed merchants in Australia, many of which are vertically integrated, including: 
• LDC and NCMA  
• Australian Food and Fibre (AFF) – which supplies ginning services, cotton 
lint classing services, warehousing and acquires and markets cotton lint 
and cottonseed; 
• Brighann – which supplies ginning services, warehousing and acquires and 
markets cotton lint and cottonseed; and 
• Olam (Queensland Cotton) – which supplies ginning services, cotton lint 
classing services (through a 20% share in ProClass), warehousing and 
acquires and markets cotton lint and cottonseed. 


 
Page 5 of 12 
Cotton growing and transportation 
22. Cotton is grown in NSW, Queensland and, more recently, in the north of Western 
Australia and the Northern Territory. There are around 1500 cotton farms in 
Australia, ranging from large corporations to small individual farmers. Due to 
variable weather conditions, cotton production figures in Australia can vary 
significantly, ranging from 0.5 million bales to 6 million bales per annum. In the 
2023/24 season, the vast majority of cotton was grown in NSW (~319,000 ha) 
and Queensland (136,650 ha), with a small crop in the Northern Territory (13,075 
ha) and Western Australia (1,800 ha).1 
23. Cotton is planted in spring and harvested in autumn. Raw cotton is packed into 
modules or round bales on the farm after harvesting and then transported to 
cotton gins. Raw cotton is generally transported using 2,400kg round modules 
(around 4.2 bales per round). 
Cotton ginning 
24. Once the raw cotton is transported to a cotton gin, the ginning process 
separates cotton lint from cottonseed. Cotton gins are generally located in the 
cotton growing regions and serve the growers in those regions. 
25. Growers will select a gin in their region to process their cotton. In some cases, 
the gin may be predetermined if a grower has entered into a bundled cotton lint 
forward contract with a vertically integrated merchant (a cotton merchant that 
also operates a cotton gin). It is typically the growers who are responsible for 
organising transport to the gin. Growers may transact with more than one gin to 
diversify risk. 
26. Different types of contracts for ginning services are available to growers: 
• gross ginning contracts – the grower pays for the ginning services and 
retains title to the cotton lint and cottonseed; 
• gin for seed contracts – the price of cottonseed is offset against the cost 
of ginning services. The grower retains title to the cotton lint and sells the 
cottonseed to the ginner; and 
• gin for seed and lint contracts – the price of cotton lint and cottonseed is 
offset against the cost of ginning services. 
Cotton lint classing 
27. At the conclusion of the ginning process, samples are collected from each bale 
of cotton lint and sent for classing. Typically, the merchant nominates and pays 
its chosen classing house. Classing may be undertaken by a High Volume 
Instrument (HVI) machine or manually by a specially trained classer. Cotton lint 
prices are then based on the grade of the cotton determined via classing. 
 
1 Cotton Australia, Annual Report 2023-24, accessed 2 October 2024, pp. 44-51.  


 
Page 6 of 12 
Acquisition and marketing of cotton lint and cottonseed 
28. There are different contract types for obtaining cotton lint and cottonseed 
between growers and merchants. In addition to bundled contracts, merchants 
can enter into contracts purely for the acquisition of the cotton lint or cottonseed 
(ex gin). 
29. Cotton lint is traditionally sold from the gin either as a forward sale (before the 
quantity and quality of the cotton is known), or as a spot sale once it has been 
ginned and classed. Approximately 40-60% of Australian cotton lint is forward 
sold by growers ahead of planting and 10-30% is forward sold for the following 
crop year(s). Approximately 20-30% is sold on a spot basis. 
Warehousing and export 
30. Merchants take delivery of the bales of lint at the gin and organise delivery to 
warehouses and export ports. Some merchants have their own warehouses and 
logistics services, while others rely entirely on third-party logistics suppliers. 
Given merchants acquire bales from across growing regions, even those 
merchants with their own logistics capabilities may use third-party suppliers. 
31. The key export channels for cotton are: 
• Port of Brisbane – usually cotton lint and cottonseed from central 
Queensland, Darling Downs, St George/Dirranbandi, Border Rivers and 
some volumes from the Gwydir Valley; 
• Port Botany (Sydney) – usually cotton lint and cottonseed from Namoi 
Valley, Macquarie Valley, Gwydir Valley and Bourke; and 
• Port of Melbourne – usually cotton lint and cottonseed from the Riverina, 
Bourke, and some volumes from Namoi Valley and Macquarie Valley. 
32. Market feedback is that the Port of Darwin will likely be a future export channel 
for cotton grown in the north of Western Australia and the Northern Territory. 
Areas of overlap 
33. LDC and Namoi overlap in: 
• the supply of cotton ginning services in the north of Western Australia and 
the Northern Territory; 
• the supply of cotton lint classing services in Australia; 
• the acquisition and marketing of cotton lint and cottonseed in separate 
cotton growing regions; and 
• the supply of warehousing services for cotton being exported out of the 
Port of Brisbane. 


 
Page 7 of 12 
Competition analysis 
34. The ACCC considered competition effects in: 
• the supply of cotton ginning services, including: 
o  unilateral effects in the supply of ginning services in the north of 
Western Australia and the Northern Territory; 
o coordinated effects in the supply of ginning services in the north of 
Western Australia and the Northern Territory; 
• vertical effects (potential foreclosure) in the acquisition of cotton lint and 
cottonseed in separate growing regions in Australia; 
• unilateral effects in the supply of cotton lint classing services in Australia; 
• coordinated effects in the supply of cotton lint classing services in 
Australia; and 
• the supply of warehousing services for the export of cotton out of the Port 
of Brisbane. 
Substantial lessening of competition in the supply of ginning 
services in the north of Western Australia and the Northern 
Territory 
Market definition 
35. LDC provides cotton ginning services from gins located in Queensland (Dalby 
and Emerald) and New South Wales (Moree). LDC also operates the WANT gin in 
Katherine, Northern Territory, which began operations in May 2024. Namoi 
operates a number of cotton gins in New South Wales and Queensland. Namoi 
also has a 17% interest in the KCC, which will operate a cotton gin in Kununurra, 
Western Australia, with construction expected to be completed in July 2025. 
36. The ACCC considers there is a distinct market in the north of Western Australia 
and the Northern Territory for the supply of cotton ginning services. In defining 
the relevant market, the ACCC had regard to market feedback indicating that 
cotton growers tend to gin their cotton at gins within the region of their growing 
operations, due to the increased transport costs associated with transporting 
cotton over longer distances.  
37. The ACCC’s view is that the two gins in the north of Western Australia and the 
Northern Territory, located 500 kilometres apart, are likely to form a distinct 
ginning market given that the next closest cotton gin in Dalby is roughly 3,000 
kilometres away. Market feedback and information from the merger parties 
indicates that the two gins will likely compete for cotton in the north of Western 
Australia. The ACCC notes that bio-security rules currently prevent the transport 
of raw cotton from the Northern Territory to Western Australia, however, there is 
no restriction on the transport of raw cotton from Western Australia into the 


 
Page 8 of 12 
Northern Territory. Although the Kununurra gin will not be able to compete for 
volume from Northern Territory growers, both the Katherine and Kununurra gins 
will be able to compete for volume from Western Australian growers.  
38. The ACCC does not consider gins in Queensland or New South Wales to be 
effective substitutes for the Katherine or Kununurra gins and did not consider 
those operations relevant to the assessment of competition effects in relation to 
the proposed acquisition. 
Unilateral effects 
39. The ACCC considers that the proposed acquisition is likely to substantially 
lessen competition for the supply of ginning services in the north of Western 
Australia and the Northern Territory, resulting in a reduction in competition in the 
supply of ginning services to growers in the region. In the absence of the 
Undertaking, post-acquisition, LDC would have interests in both the Katherine gin 
and the Kununurra gin.  
40. The ACCC considers that as the operator of the Katherine gin and the Kununurra 
gin, LDC may have control or significant influence over the pricing decisions at 
both gins. Consequently, post-acquisition, LDC may likely have greater ability to 
unilaterally raise the ginning price at either gin. In the absence of the acquisition, 
the two gins would likely compete for Western Australian growers and LDC’s 
ability to unilaterally raise the ginning price at the Katherine gin would likely be 
constrained by the independent operation of the Kununurra gin.  
41. Post-acquisition, LDC would likely have a greater incentive to unilaterally raise 
ginning prices at the Katherine gin as doing so would increase its ginning profit. 
In the absence of the proposed acquisition, raising the ginning prices at the 
Katherine gin would likely result in some cotton being diverted to the Kununurra 
gin and LDC would not receive any of the profit associated with the diverted 
volume. In contrast, post-acquisition, through its ownership in Namoi, LDC would 
be able to receive a share of profits derived from the cotton volume diverted to 
the Kununurra gin. LDC is therefore more likely to have the incentive to 
unilaterally raise the ginning price at the Katherine gin under the proposed 
acquisition.  
Coordinated effects   
42. The ACCC is also concerned that there would likely be an increase in the risk of 
coordinated effects between the Katherine and Kununurra gins post-acquisition, 
resulting in higher ginning prices at both gins.  
43. In circumstances where LDC operates both the Katherine and Kununurra gins but 
lacks the control or significant influence over pricing decisions at either gin, the 
ACCC is concerned that competitively sensitive information regarding the 
operation of each gin may be shared. This information exchange can enhance 
the ability of the two gins to coordinate their behaviour and make 
accommodating responses (e.g. raise ginning prices) faster and more precisely 
(e.g. closely match the price increase at the other gin).  


 
Page 9 of 12 
44. For example, LDC may use its access to the sensitive information to pre-empt or 
appropriate the Kununurra gin’s competitive business strategies for the benefit 
of the Katherine gin. If the Kununurra gin knows its effort to win demand can be 
immediately appropriated, it may see less value in taking competitive action in 
the first place, resulting in a lessening of competition.  
Entry of competing gins is unlikely in the short to medium term  
45. The ACCC considers that it is unlikely that, in the short to medium term, a new 
cotton gin will begin operating in Western Australia and the Northern Territory 
and effectively constrain the Katherine and Kununurra gins from increasing 
ginning prices. 
46. Cotton gins are highly specialised infrastructure and require significant time, 
capital and expertise to establish. Market feedback indicates a new cotton gin 
may require up to $80 million in investment and could take between 2-3 years to 
establish. 
47. The ACCC considers that there is also insufficient residual demand for additional 
suppliers of ginning services in the short to medium term to allow for profitable 
entry, given that cotton industry in Western Australia and the Northern Territory 
is still at an early stage of development. Consequently, there is unlikely to be an 
incentive for new entry in such circumstances where the volume of cotton 
produced does not generate sufficient returns for competing ginning operators 
to justify their entry. 
Substantial lessening of competition in the supply of cotton 
lint classing services in Australia 
Market definition 
48. The ACCC considers there is a separate market for the supply of cotton lint 
classing services.  
49. There are three classing houses in Australia. ProClass, supplies cotton lint 
classing services from its facility in Goondiwindi, Queensland. Namoi supplies 
cotton classing services through its ownership of ACS out of its facility in Wee 
Waa, NSW. ProClass and ACS together class over 80% of cotton lint produced in 
Australia. The remaining cotton lint produced in Australia is classed by AFF. 
50. The ACCC considers that the market for supplying cotton lint classing services is 
a national market, as ProClass and ACS currently class cotton lint ginned at any 
gin in Australia.  
Unilateral effects 
51. The ACCC considers the proposed acquisition is likely to substantially lessen 
competition for the supply of cotton lint classing services in Australia, which 
may result in an increase in the price for cotton lint classing services or a 
reduction in service quality. 


 
Page 10 of 12 
52. Market feedback and internal information indicate ACS competes against 
ProClass, with the main point of difference between the two classers being the 
use of visual classing for some characteristics of cotton lint, which is valued by 
some growers. 
53. Post-acquisition, LDC would have a 20% interest in ProClass and 100% of ACS. 
The ACCC considers LDC’s interests in both cotton lint classing suppliers would 
likely lead to a reduction in incentives to vigorously compete for customers. 
54. The ACCC notes that with a shareholding of 20%, LDC may not have the ability to 
control or significantly influence prices of classing services provided by 
ProClass. However, the ACCC considers that LDC, through its 20% interest in 
ProClass, would capture some of the lost profits if customers switch to ProClass 
following a price increase at ACS. As such, LDC may be more incentivised to 
raise prices at ACS compared to the status quo. 
Coordinated effects 
55. The ACCC is also concerned that, even if LDC would not have control or 
significant influence of ProClass post-acquisition, the overlapping ownership by 
LDC in ProClass and ACS may still increase the risk of coordination between 
them, leading to higher prices or a reduction in service quality of classing 
services provided by both ProClass and ACS.  
56. In particular, the ACCC is concerned that the overlapping ownership could lower 
the incentive for the two classers to compete as vigorously, enabling LDC to 
maximise its total classing profit. In addition, the ACCC is also concerned that 
the overlapping ownership could facilitate the flow of non-public competitively 
sensitive information that would lower the uncertainty associated with any tacit 
coordination between the two classers.  
Alternative suppliers and barriers to entry 
57. ProClass and ACS face limited competition from alternative suppliers of classing 
services. AFF is the only other supplier of cotton lint classing services in 
Australia and AFF does not currently supply classing services to third parties. 
58. The ACCC considers barriers to profitably enter cotton classing are likely to be 
relatively high. This is due to the size of the incumbents and because cotton lint 
classing is a high volume, low margin service.  
Foreclosure of rival merchants’ access to cotton lint or cotton 
seed 
59. The ACCC considers that, other than in the north of Western Australia and the 
Northern Territory discussed above, LDC is unlikely, post-acquisition to have 
significant market power in the supply of ginning services in any region of 
Australia. Accordingly, it is unlikely that LDC could foreclose competing 
merchants by restricting their access to cotton lint or cottonseed from gins LDC 
operates. 


 
Page 11 of 12 
60. Market feedback and ginning data indicates that competing merchants are able 
to acquire cotton lint and cottonseed from multiple gins in Australia. Should LDC 
attempt to restrict competing merchants’ access to ginned cotton lint and 
cottonseed, these merchants would likely switch away from gins operated by 
LDC and acquire cotton lint and cottonseed from alternative gins in each of the 
other regional markets for the supply of ginning services. 
Foreclosure of access to warehousing services for cotton 
exported out of the Port of Brisbane 
61. LDC supplies cotton warehousing and logistics services to itself and to third 
parties with facilities in Dalby (Qld), the Port of Brisbane (Qld) and Moree (NSW). 
Namoi, through the NCA, supplies cotton lint warehousing service to itself and to 
third parties from its facilities in Wee Waa and Warren (NSW) and Goondiwindi 
(Qld). 
62. Cotton lint tends to be stored at facilities that are on the supply chain path to the 
relevant port of export, and there are distinct markets for the supply of cotton 
warehousing and logistics services for cotton to be exported out of each port in 
Australia. 
63. The ACCC considers LDC and Namoi overlap in supplying warehousing and 
logistics for cotton lint being exported out of the Port of Brisbane. LDC’s 
warehouses, and the NCA warehouse in Goondiwindi fall within this market. 
64. The ACCC considers the proposed acquisition is unlikely to substantially lessen 
competition in the supply of cotton lint warehousing and logistics services. Post-
acquisition, LDC would have an estimated market share of 30 to 40% for the 
supply of warehousing services for the export of cotton from the Port of 
Brisbane and market feedback suggests it will continue to be constrained by a 
number of other competitors.  
Undertaking 
65. In order to address the ACCC’s competition concerns, LDC offered a court 
enforceable Undertaking pursuant to section 87B of the Act.  
66. The Undertaking was accepted by the ACCC. A copy of the Undertaking is 
available on the ACCC mergers register and undertakings register. A brief 
summary of the Undertaking is set out below. 
67. The Undertaking seeks to address the ACCC’s competition concerns by placing 
obligations on LDC Melbourne and LDC Enterprises Australia Pty Limited (LDC 
Enterprises): 
• 
to divest LDC Enterprises’ shareholding in ProClass (ProClass 
shareholding) in a manner that will maintain ProClass as a viable, effective, 
stand-alone, independent and long-term competitor in the market for the 
supply of cotton lint classing services in Australia; 


 
Page 12 of 12 
• 
to terminate the WANT Joint Venture Agreement to ensure that the WANT 
gin will operate as a viable, effective, stand-alone, independent, and long-
term competitor located in the market for the supply of ginning services in 
the north of Western Australia and the Northern Territory following the 
termination of the WANT JVA; 
• 
to provide for supporting arrangements for the implementation of the 
above commitments and for the effective oversight of LDC’s compliance 
with the Undertaking. 
68. The ACCC considers that the implementation of the Undertaking will address its 
competition concerns with the proposed acquisition. In particular, the 
Undertaking will support the independent operation of ProClass and ACS, and 
the WANT gin operating as a competitor in the supply of cotton ginning services 
in the north of Western Australia and the Northern Territory. 
Conclusion 
69. Based on the above analysis, the ACCC considers that the proposed acquisition, 
in the absence of the Undertaking, would be likely to substantially lessen 
competition in the supply of cotton ginning services in the north of Western 
Australia and the Northern Territory, and the supply of cotton lint classing 
services in Australia. 
70. However, the ACCC considers that the Undertaking given by LDC addresses its 
competition concerns such that the proposed acquisition of Namoi by LDC, 
taking the Undertaking into account, is not likely to have the effect of 
substantially lessening competition in any market.  
