 
 
 
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
tel: (02) 6243 1368 
mergers@accc.gov.au
www.accc.gov.au
Our ref: IM-72435  
 
Contact officer: Emma Moulds / Hugo Dunkley 
 
Contact phone: (08) 8456 3508 / (02) 9230 3804 
19 February 2024 
Dear Interested Party 
Re: Request for submissions: Louis Dreyfus Company’s proposed acquisition 
of Namoi Cotton Limited 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
the proposed acquisition of Namoi Cotton Limited (Namoi) by Louis Dreyfus Company Asia 
Pte. Ltd. (LDC) (the proposed acquisition). 
LDC operates in the sourcing, ginning, storage, shipment and trading/marketing of cotton 
lint and cottonseed. It also sources and trades grains and oilseeds. Namoi’s business 
comprises cotton ginning, cottonseed marketing, and cotton lint classing as well as 
warehousing and logistics services (through the Namoi Cotton Alliance joint venture with 
LDC) and exclusively sourcing cotton lint for the Namoi Cotton Marketing Alliance (a joint 
venture between Namoi and LDC) as part of its cotton marketing activities. Further details 
are provided at Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact on competition. In particular, we are 
seeking your views on: 
• 
the likely impact on prices and service quality in the supply of ginning services 
• 
the likely impact on prices and service quality in the acquisition and sale of cotton 
seed, and 
• 
whether the proposed acquisition is likely to give LDC the ability and incentive to 
foreclose its competitors post-acquisition. 
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 


 
 
Please provide your response by 4 March 2024 via email with the title: Submission re: 
LDC’s proposed acquisition of Namoi – attention Emma Moulds / Hugo Dunkley. If you 
require more time to respond, please let us know. 
If you would like to arrange a time to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any 
questions about this letter, please contact Emma Moulds on (08) 8456 3508 or Hugo 
Dunkley on (02) 9230 3804. 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public 
Mergers Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC treats sensitive information it receives during a merger review as confidential, and will 
not publish your submission. We will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our 
advisors/consultants) unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information 
legislation or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition and 
Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, we will notify 
you in advance where possible so that you have an opportunity to be heard. Therefore please 
clearly indicate if any information you provide is confidential. Our Informal Merger Review Process 
Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
Bruce Mikkelsen 
General Manager (A/g)  
Merger Investigations  
 
 
 
 


 
 
Attachment A 
 
The Proposed Acquisition 
 
LDC is proposing to acquire all remaining ordinary shares in Namoi. LDC currently 
holds approximately 17% of the shares in Namoi. 
 
LDC 
 
LDC is incorporated in Singapore and is part of the Louis Dreyfus Company Group – 
a global merchant and processor of agricultural goods. LDC operates in the sourcing, 
ginning, storage, shipment and trading/marketing of cotton lint and cottonseed. 
 
LDC operates three cotton gins located in Emerald and Dalby (Qld) and Moree 
(NSW). It supplies cotton warehousing and logistics services with facilities in Dalby 
and Port of Brisbane (Qld) and Moree (NSW). 
 
LDC holds a minority 20% interest in ProClass, which provides cotton lint classing 
services. It also has a joint venture with WANT Cotton for the operation and 
management of the WANT gin located near Katherine (NT). This gin is expected to 
be operational by mid-2024. 
 
Namoi 
 
Namoi’s business comprises of cotton ginning, sourcing of cotton lint, cottonseed 
marketing and cotton lint classing. 
 
Namoi operates 10 cotton gins at 9 sites across NSW and Qld (set out in 
Attachment C). Namoi is also involved in a joint venture with Sundown Pastoral Co 
Pty Ltd (Sundown) (called the Wathagar Ginning Company) with a gin located in the 
Gwydir Valley (NSW). 
 
It has a 17% interest in the Kimberley Cotton Company, which will operate a multi-
user cotton gin in Kununurra (WA) due to be completed in July 2025. 
 
LDC and Namoi joint ventures 
 
LDC has 2 joint venture arrangements in place with Namoi via: 
 
• 
the Namoi Cotton Alliance (the NCA), and 
• 
the Namoi Cotton Marketing Alliance (the NCMA). 
 
The NCA (of which LDC holds a 49% interest, with Namoi holding 51%) stores and 
transports cotton lint bales through its warehousing facilities. It also provides 
agricultural commodities packing services. It has warehouse facilities in Wee Waa, 
Warren and Goondiwindi. All its facilities have rail access. 
 
The NCMA (of which LDC holds an 85% interest, with Namoi holding the remaining 
15%) is involved in the trading and marketing of cotton lint. Namoi exclusively 
supplies all cotton lint bales acquired by it to the NCMA and the NCMA exclusively 
supplies its services to Namoi.  
 
 


 
 
Attachment B 
1. Describe your business or organisation and explain your interest in the proposed 
acquisition, including any commercial relationship(s) with LDC or Namoi. 
If you are a supplier or customer of either of the parties, please provide details of 
these commercial arrangements, including the volume and value of products 
supplied/purchased and terms of the arrangements including the duration and 
expiry of any contract. 
Customers of cotton gins 
2. Identify and describe alternative suppliers of ginning services that compete with 
LDC and Namoi. Please specify the location/s in which these suppliers compete 
with LDC and Namoi. 
3. Comment on the geographic area over which customers would travel to source 
cotton ginning services and their ability to source these services from other 
locations or further away in response to a price increase. In your response, 
please address transport costs and any other relevant factors. 
Buyers of cottonseed and/or cotton lint 
4. Describe the nature and extent of competition between LDC and Namoi in NSW, 
Qld and North-western Australia for the purchase of cottonseed and/or cotton lint 
from cotton growers. 
5. Comment on alternative buyers of cottonseed and/or cotton lint available for 
cotton growers post-acquisition. Please also address how transport costs impact 
on the viability of different alternatives. 
6. Comment on the ability of cotton growers to easily switch to different buyers of 
cottonseed and/or cotton lint. 
7. Outline factors which affect the price paid to growers for cottonseed and/or cotton 
lint. In responding, please address: 
a. the extent to which international prices for cottonseed and/or cotton lint 
are reflected in the price paid to growers in Australia 
b. whether the price paid to a cotton grower is adjusted in consideration of 
the quality of the cottonseed and/or cotton lint 
c. whether the price paid to a cotton grower is affected by the location of a 
cotton grower, and 
d. any other factors. 
Customers of cottonseed and/or cotton lint 
8. Comment on the ability of LDC to raise the price of cottonseed and/or cotton lint 
they sell to customers. In your response, please focus on Australian customers. 
Please address: 
a. the extent to which other suppliers of cottonseed and/or cotton lint would 
provide a competitive constraint on price, and 
b. the extent to which suppliers of man-made fibres or other cotton 
alternatives (such as silk and wool) would provide a competitive constraint 
on pricing. 
Vertical effects 
9. Comment on the ability and incentive of LDC to limit cotton growers’ access to its 


 
 
ginning facilities in NSW, Qld and North-western Australia post-acquisition. In 
responding, please address: 
a. the current ability of cotton growers to use LDC and Namoi ginning 
facilities to supply rival merchants, and how this may be affected by the 
proposed acquisition 
b. LDC’s ability to control the warehousing and distribution of cottonseed 
and cotton lint after the ginning process, and 
c. the extent to which a cotton growers’ choice of gins is geographically 
constrained due to transport or logistics issues associated with the 
distance between a grower and gin. 
Other 
10. Describe any barriers to entry in relation to a new merchant wishing to 
commence cotton marketing in Australia or a marketer of other grains wishing to 
expand into the marketing of cotton. You may wish to comment on the following: 
a. the ease of securing the supply of cotton from cotton growers 
b. the time and costs involved with entry 
c. access to warehousing and logistics assets, and 
d. any other barriers. 
11. Please provide any additional information or comments that you consider relevant 
to the ACCC’s consideration of the proposed acquisition. 
 
 
 


 
 
Attachment C 
Table 1: LDC operated gins 
Gin 
Valley 
LDC – Dalby 
Darling Downs (Queensland) 
LDC – Emerald 
Emerald (Queensland) 
LDC – Moree 
Gwydir (NSW) 
LDC – WANT gin 
Katherine (Northern Territory) (expected 
to be operational by mid-2024) 
 
Table 2: Namoi operated gins 
Gin 
Valley 
Namoi Cotton – North Bourke 
Bourke (NSW) 
Namoi Cotton – Wathagar (50%) 
Gwydir (NSW) 
Namoi Cotton – Merah North 
Lower Namoi (NSW) 
Namoi Cotton – Moomin (75%) 
Lower Namoi (NSW) 
Namoi Cotton – MacIntyre (1 and 2) 
MacIntyre (Queensland) 
Namoi Cotton – Trangie 
Macquarie (NSW) 
Namoi Cotton – Mungindi 
Mungindi (NSW) 
Namoi Cotton – Hillston 
Murrumbidgee (NSW) 
Namoi Cotton – Boggabri 
Upper Namoi (NSW) 
Kimberley Cotton Company Kununurra 
gin (17%) 
Kununurra (Western Australia) 
(expected for completion in July 2025) 
 
