FILE No:
DOC: On 1139 
MARS/PRISM:
Undertakings under Section 87B of the Trade Practices Act
Recitals
A. 
On 16 April 2007 Tattersall's announced it had agreed to acquire, via its
wholly owned subsidiary Tattersall's Holdings, all of the shares in Golden
Casket Lottery Corporation (GCLC), the lottery operator in Queensland
(Proposed Acquisition).
B. 
GCLC has the following wholly owned subsidiaries: Bounty Limited, Bounty
Systems Pty Ltd, Clubline Systems Pty Ltd and Infolink Systems Pty Ltd
(collectively, Bounty). Bounty provides a range of management and
monitoring software for use in the club and hotel industries in Australia and
overseas. It also owns the intellectual property to a number of software
programs used in the electronic gaming machine industry, including
"Sentinel", "Compass" and "Clubline".
C. 
At the date of the Tattersall's Undertakings, the active licensed monitoring
operators in Queensland are:
(a) Maxgaming Holdings Pty Ltd and Maxgaming Qld Pty Ltd (collectively
referred to as Maxgaming), both being wholly owned subsidiaries of
Tattersall's; and
(b) Odyssey Gaming Services Pty Ltd.
"Sentinel" is licensed by Bounty to Odyssey, on a non-exclusive basis, and is
used by Odyssey to monitor electronic gaming machines in Queensland.
D. 
On 14 May 2007, the Commission announced it had commenced an informal
review of the Proposed Acquisition. The Commission made market inquiries
and considered the information provided by Tattersall's and other market
participants. The Commission's inquiries were aimed at determining whether
or not the Proposed Acquisition would be likely to substantially lessen
competition in any substantial Australian market, in contravention of section
50 of the Act.
E. 
The Commission came to the view that the relevant market for the purposes of
assessing the Proposed Acquisition was the market for the monitoring and
maintenance of electronic gaming machines in Queensland.
F. 
After undertaking extensive market inquiries, the Commission came to the
view that barriers to entry into the relevant monitoring and maintenance
market were such that new entry is unlikely to provide a competitive
constraint on Tattersall's behaviour in the relevant market post-acquisition. In
forming this view, the Commission considered that the long lead times
associated with new entry, as well as the scale of entry required, pose
substantial barriers to viable entry into the market that are unlikely to be
overcome in the next two years.
1


G.
In this context, the Commission considered that the Proposed Acquisition
would increase Tattersall's incentive and ability to increase the price paid by
Odyssey for monitoring software and technical support and/or decrease the
level of service and technical support provided to Odyssey.
H.
The Commission therefore concluded that the Proposed Acquisition was likely
to raise substantial competition concerns in the market for monitoring and
maintenance of electronic gaming machines in Queensland.
Tattersall's has previously denied and continues to deny that the Proposed
Acquisition and, specifically, the acquisition of Bounty would, or would be
likely to, substantially lessen competition in contravention of section 50 of the
Act.
J.
Tattersall's without admission, offered to the Commission, pursuant to section
87B of the Act, undertakings to divest Bounty, in order to address and remedy
the Commission's concerns as outlined in these Recitals (Tattersall's
Undertakings). The Tattersall's Undertakings, inter alia, require Tattersall's
to maintain and operate Bounty independently of and separate to the
Tattersall's business in the period prior to divestiture.
K.
This Undertaking seeks to ensure that, for the duration of the Undertaking,
information confidential to Bounty is not made available to Tattersall's, or any
of its Related Bodies Corporate and no Tattersall's person with access to
Bounty non-public information, participates in any way in discussions or
consideration of issues affecting the Queensland electronic gaming machine
monitoring and maintenance market.
L.
On the basis of the implementation of the terms of the Tattersall's
Undertakings, the Commission did not object to the Proposed Acquisition.
1. 
Commencement and Duration of Undertaking
1.1 
This Undertaking comes into effect from the Trigger Date.
Termination
1.2 
This Undertaking will terminate on the first to occur of:
(a) the date on which the Commission consents to the withdrawal of the
Undertaking in accordance with section 87B of the Act; or
(b) the first anniversary of the Divestiture Date.
2


2. 
Undertaking and acknowledgement
I undertake to the Commission that, unless otherwise permitted by this
Undertaking or the Tattersall's Undertakings or as required by law:
(a) I will not use or disclose any non-public information acquired in the course
of performing my duties as a director of Bounty and will not use that
information for the benefit of any person other than Bounty; and
(b) I will not, as a director, consultant or employee of Tattersall's, or any of its
Related Bodies Corporate, participate in any way in discussions or
consideration of issues affecting the Queensland electronic gaming
machine monitoring and maintenance market (which for the avoidance of
doubt does not include discussions or consideration of issues within
Tattersall's relating to the divestment process of Bounty):
i.
while I am a director of Bounty; or
ii. have access to or knowledge of any of Bounty's non-public
information acquired in the course of performing my duties as a
director of Bounty and which is relevant to such an issue.
3. 
Independent Manager
I undertake to cooperate fully with the Independent Manager and to provide
the Independent Manager with such information and assistance as is necessary
to enable the Independent Manager to carry out his or her functions as set out
in the Tattersall's Undertakings.
4. 
Further Information
4.1 
At the Commission's direction, I will:
(a) furnish information to the Commission;
(b) produce documents to the Commission in relation to which I have
custody, control or power; and/or
(c) attend the Commission at a time and place appointed by the Commission
to answer any questions the Commission (its Commissioners, its staff or
its agents) may have,
in relation to my compliance with this Undertaking.
4.2 Information furnished, documents produced or information given in answer to
questions may be used by the Commission for any purpose consistent with its
statutory functions.
3


5. 
Acknowledgement
I acknowledge that the Commission may:
(a) make the Undertaking available for public inspection; and
(b) from time to time publicly refer to the Undertaking.
6. 
Definitions and interpretation
Definitions
In this Undertaking, unless the context indicates otherwise:
Act means the Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth).
Bounty means collectively Bounty Limited ACN 096 276 292, Bounty
Systems Pty Limited ACN 090 692 489, Clubline Systems Pty Limited ACN
090 524 039 and Infolink Systems Pty Limited ACN 051 065 117 and
includes all the businesses conducted by Bounty, being the development,
marketing, supply and support of gaming technology systems for use in the
hotel and club industries in Australia and overseas.
Commission means the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission.
Corporations Act means the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth).
Divestiture Date means the date on which the Commission confirms in
writing to Tattersall's that it is satisfied that the divestiture of Bounty is
completed and settled by or on behalf of Tattersall's in accordance with the
Tattersall's Undertakings.
GCLC means Golden Casket Lottery Corporation Ltd ACN 078 785 449.
Independent Manager means a person independent of Tattersall's appointed
by Tattersall's and not objected to by the Commission to manage and operate
Bounty. Without limitation, the following persons shall not be considered
independent of Tattersall' s:
•
current employees or officers of Tattersall's;
•
persons who were employees or officers of Tattersall's or GCLC in the
past three years;
•
shareholders who, in the opinion of the Commission, hold a material
number of shares in Tattersall's;
•
professional advisors of Tattersall's or GCLC, whether current or in
the last three years;
4


•
persons who have a contractual relationship with Tattersall's;
•
persons who are suppliers of Tattersall's; or
•
persons who are material customers of Tattersall's.
Maxgaming means Maxgaming Holdings Pty Ltd ACN 079 909 541 and
Maxgaming Qld Pty Ltd ACN 078 963 050.
Odyssey means Odyssey Gaming Services Pty Ltd ACN 061 363 139, a
wholly-owned subsidiary of Odyssey Gaming Limited ACN 074 735 452.
Proposed Acquisition means the proposed acquisition by Tattersall's, via
Tattersall's Holdings, of all of the shares in GCLC.
Related Body Corporate has the same meaning ascribed to that term in the
Corporations Act but, for the removal of doubt, excludes Bounty.
Tattersall's means Tattersall's Limited ACN 108 686 040 and all of its
Related Bodies Corporate, which includes GCLC but does not include Bounty.
Tattersall's Holdings means Tattersall's Holdings Pty Ltd ACN 081 925 706.
Tattersall's Undertakings means the undertakings given by Tattersall's
under section 87B of the Act and accepted by the Commission on 20 July,
2007.
Trigger Date means 29 June, 2007.
Undertaking means the undertakings made by Bruce Andrew Houston in this
document.
7. Interpretation
The following rules of interpretation apply to this Undertaking unless the
context requires otherwise:
(a)
headings are for convenience only and do not affect interpretation;
(b)
the singular includes the plural and the plural includes the singular;
(c)
where a word or phrase is defined, its other grammatical forms have a
corresponding meaning;
(d)
a reference to a person includes any corporation or non-natural person;
(e)
a reference to a paragraph, annexure or schedule is to a paragraph of,
or annexure or schedule to, this Undertaking;
5


(f)
a reference to any agreement or document (including the Undertaking)
is to that agreement or document as amended, novated, supplemented,
varied or replaced from time to time;
(g)
a reference to any legislation or to any provision of any legislation
includes any modification or re-enactment of it, any legislative
provision substituted for it, and all regulations and statutory
instruments issued under it;
(h)
a reference to conduct includes any omission and any statement or
undertaking, whether or not in writing;
(i)
mentioning anything after include, includes or including, does not limit
what else might be included;
(j)
a reference to 'the Undertaking' or 'this Undertaking' is a reference to
all of the provisions of this document including any schedule;
(k)
a construction that would promote the purpose or object underlying the
Undertaking (whether expressly stated or not) shall be preferred to a
construction that would not promote that purpose or object;
(1) 
material not forming part of this Undertaking may be considered to:
(i)
confirm the meaning of a paragraph is the ordinary meaning
conveyed by the text of the paragraph, taking into account its
context in the Undertaking and the competition concerns
intended to be addressed by the Undertaking and the paragraph
in question; or
(ii)
determine the meaning of the paragraph when the ordinary
meaning conveyed by the text of the paragraph, taking into
account its context in the Undertaking and the purpose or object
underlying the Undertaking, leads to a result that does not
promote the purpose or object underlying the Undertaking,
(m) In determining whether consideration should be given to any material
in accordance with paragraph (1), or in considering any weight to be
given to any such material, regard shall be had, in addition to any other
relevant matters, to the:
(i)
effect that reliance on the ordinary meaning conveyed
by the text of the paragraph would have (taking into
account its context in the Undertaking and whether that
meaning promotes the purpose or object of the
Undertaking); and
(ii)
the need to ensure that the result of the Undertaking is
to address the Commission's competition concerns.
6


(n) 
In performing my obligations under this Undertaking, I will do
everything reasonably in my power to ensure that my performance of
these obligations is done in a manner which is consistent with
promoting the purpose and object of the Undertaking.
Executed by BRUCE ANDREW HOUSTON
in the presence of:
Signature f Witness
EL01-1& Su 
&go-LA
Name of Witness
Date: j1 if-7-7/0 7
Accepted by the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission pursuant to
Section 87B of the Trade Practices Act 1974.
Graeme Julian Samuel
Chairman
Date: 
Qty7
7
