Undertakings under Section 87B of the Trade Practices Act
Recitals
On 16 April 2007 Tattersall's announced it had agreed to acquire, via its
wholly owned subsidiary Tattersall's Holdings, all the shares in GCLC, the
lottery operator in Queensland (Proposed Acquisition).
GCLC has the following wholly owned subsidiaries: Bounty Limited, Bounty
Systems Pty Ltd, Clubline Systems Pty Ltd and Infolink Systems Pty Ltd
(collectively, Bounty). Bounty provides a range of management and
monitoring software for use in the club and hotel industries in Australia and
overseas. It also owns the intellectual property to a number of software
programs used in the electronic gaming machine industry, including
"Sentinel", "Compass" and "Clubline".
At the date of these undertakings, the active licensed monitoring operators in
Queensland are:
(a) Maxgaming Holdings Pty Ltd and Maxgaming Qld Pty Ltd (collectively
referred to as Maxgaming), both being wholly owned subsidiaries of
Tattersall's; and
(b) Odyssey Gaming Services Pty Ltd.
"Sentinel" is licensed by Bounty to Odyssey, on a non-exclusive basis, and is
used by Odyssey to monitor electronic gaming machines in Queensland.
On 14 May 2007, the Commission announced it had commenced an informal
review of the Proposed Acquisition.
The Commission has made market inquiries and considered the information
provided by Tattersall's and other market participants. The Commission's
inquiries were aimed at determining whether or not the Proposed Acquisition
would be likely to substantially lessen competition in any substantial
Australian market, in contravention of section 50 of the Act.
The Commission has come to the view that the relevant market for the
purposes of assessing the Proposed Acquisition is the market for the
monitoring and maintenance of electronic gaming machines in Queensland.
After undertaking extensive market inquiries, the Commission came to the
view that barriers to entry into the relevant monitoring and maintenance
market were such that new entry is unlikely to provide a competitive
constraint on Tattersall's behaviour in the relevant market post-acquisition. In
forming this view, the Commission considered that the long lead times
associated with new entry, as well as the scale of entry required, pose
substantial barriers to viable entry into the market that are unlikely to be
overcome in the next two years.
1


In this context, the Commission considers that the Proposed Acquisition
would increase Tattersall's incentive and ability to increase the price paid by
Odyssey for monitoring software and technical support and/or decrease the
level of service that this software and technical support is provided to
Odyssey.
The Commission has therefore concluded that the Proposed Acquisition is
likely to raise substantial competition concerns in the market for the
monitoring and maintenance of electronic gaming machines in Queensland.
Tattersall's has previously denied and continues to deny that the Proposed
Acquisition and, specifically, the acquisition of Bounty would, or would be
likely to, substantially lessen competition in contravention of section 50 of the
Act.
Tattersall's without admission offers to the Commission, pursuant to section
87B of the Act, the following Undertaking to divest Bounty, in order to
address and remedy the Commission's concerns as outlined in these Recitals.
The object of these Undertakings is to ensure that Bounty is maintained,
through independent management and subsequent divestiture, as a viable,
independent and ongoing concern.
On the basis of the implementation of the terms of this Undertaking the
Commission does not object to the Proposed Acquisition.
1. 
Commencement and Duration of Undertakings
1.1 
Subject to paragraph 1.2, this Undertaking comes into effect on the Trigger
Date.
1.2 
In the event that the date by which the Commission accepts this Undertaking is
subsequent to the Trigger Date, all paragraphs of this Undertaking come into
effect when the Undertaking is accepted by the Commission and have effect as
and from the Trigger Date.
1.3 
This Undertaking will terminate on the earlier of:
(a) the date the Commission consents to the withdrawal of the Undertaking in
accordance with section 87B of the Act; and
(b) the first anniversary of the Divestiture Date.
2


2. 
Preservation of Divestiture Business
Maintenance of Divestiture Business
2.1 
Subject to paragraph 3, from the Trigger Date, Tattersall's must not sell or
transfer any shares or assets of Bounty, or make any material adverse change
to Bounty whatsoever.
Treatment of Divestiture Business
2.2 
Tattersall's undertakes that it will, from the Trigger Date until the Divestiture
Date:
(a) 
take all steps necessary to preserve Bounty as a separate and
independently viable going concern in the provision of gaming
technology software and technical support;
(b) 
procure that the management, sales, service, administration and
operations of Bounty is conducted separately from the management,
sales, service, administration and operations of Tattersall's;
(c) 
not employ or otherwise engage or offer to employ or engage directly
or indirectly, any employee or servant of Bounty;
(d) 
procure that the management of Bounty operates Bounty independently
from Tattersall's operations, and particularly empower them
independently to:
(i)
acquire and pay for sufficient and timely deliveries of
all goods and services required by Bounty;
(ii)
continue to market, price and sell all goods and services
in the same manner as occurred prior to the Trigger
Date by Bounty; and
(iii)
maintain all current contracts and agreements of Bounty
in accordance with their terms;
(e) 
subject to paragraph 2.3, below, take all steps necessary to:
(i)
keep the books and records of Bounty separate from
those of the operations of Tattersall's; and
(ii)
ensure that no information in relation to Bounty is
directly or indirectly requested or received by
Tattersall's directly or indirectly from Bounty;
(f) 
provide and maintain:
3


(i) 
access to sufficient working capital and sources of
credit for Bounty; and
(ii) 
current levels of sales support, marketing and technical
assistance for Bounty,
so as to ensure Bounty remains economically viable as an independent
ongoing concern to continue to provide the services it was providing
prior to the Trigger Date;
(g)
ensure that any agreements to be entered into between Tattersall's and
Bounty are at arms length and will be subject to a veto by the
Independent Manager;
(h)
without limiting the generality of paragraph 2.2(g), ensure that any
agreement entered into with Bounty to license the Sentinel Software to
Tattersall's or that otherwise deals with or relates to the Sentinel
Software, will be on non-exclusive terms and in any event subject to
approval by the Commission.
2.3 
From the Trigger Date and until the Divestiture Date:
(a) 
Tattersall's is entitled to receive and use:
all publicly available information regarding Bounty and
information in the possession of Tattersall's as at the
Trigger Date;
(ii) 
all information necessary to enable Tattersall's to
comply with its legal and reporting obligations
including taxation, accounting and ASX continuous and
periodical disclosure obligations; and
(iii) 
such commercial and financial information compiled by
Bounty in respect of Bounty as is reasonably necessary
to enable the directors of Tattersall's to fulfil their
duties as directors;
(b) 
Tattersall's is entitled to receive and use all information necessary to
enable Tattersall's to effect the divestiture of Bounty, subject to
approval by the Independent Manager appointed pursuant to
paragraphs 2.10 - 2.15.
2.4 
Tattersall's must, within 6 Business Days of the Trigger Date, notify the
Commission of any changes to Bounty that Tattersall's intends to make to
ensure the separation of Bounty required by paragraph 2.
2.5 
Prior to the divestment of Bounty, Tattersall's will, unless otherwise required
by law, exclude any person who is a director, employee or consultant of
4


Bounty from any discussion or vote at a meeting of the Board of Tattersall's,
where that discussion or vote relates in any way to the Queensland electronic
gaming machine monitoring and maintenance market.
2.6 
Prior to the divestment of Bounty, Tattersall's will, unless otherwise required
by law or permitted by this Undertaking, ensure that any person who is a
director, employee or consultant of Bounty, will not use or disclose
information acquired in the course of performing duties for Bounty, for the
benefit of Tattersall's.
2.7 
Tattersall's will request that each new and existing director on the board of
Bounty as at, and from, the date of the ACCC accepting this Undertaking until
the Divestiture Date, offers to the Commission an undertaking in the form
located in Schedule 2 of this Undertaking.
2.8 
In the event that a director of Bounty has not offered to the Commission an
undertaking in the form in Schedule 2 of the Undertaking within 5 Business
Days of the ACCC accepting this Undertaking, or, for directors of Bounty
appointed after the date on which the Commission accepts the Undertakings,
within 5 Business Days of being appointed as a Bounty Director, Tattersall's
will, to the extent permissible by law, terminate the appointment of that
director.
Proposed Independent Manager
2.9 
Within 6 Business Days of the Trigger Date, Tattersall's must notify the
Commission, in writing, of the identity of the proposed Independent Manager
to oversee the operation of Bounty at Tattersall's's cost, together with such
information as the Commission requires to assess whether the Commission
will object to the appointment of the proposed Independent Manager, including
a copy of the proposed terms of engagement of the Independent Manager.
Appointment of Independent Manager
2.10 If within 10 Business Days of receipt by the Commission of the information
referred to in paragraph 2.9, or such further period as is required by the
Commission and notified to Tattersall's in writing prior to the expiration of the
10 Business Day period, the Commission does not object to the proposed
Independent Manager, Tattersall's must appoint the proposed Independent
Manager within 5 Business Days of being notified that the Commission does
not so object, in accordance with the minimum terms of engagement approved
by the Commission which shall include the terms set out in paragraph 2.11.
Tattersall's will promptly forward to the Commission a copy of the executed
terms of engagement.
2.11 The terms of Tattersall's engagement of the Independent Manager will provide
for the following obligations:
5


A. the Independent Manager will operate Bounty in the ordinary course of
business and must not make any material change to the attributes of
Bounty, including but not limited to the development, maintenance,
marketing and licensing of its gaming technology systems and software;
B. the Independent Manager will operate Bounty in a manner which is
financially and operationally separate from Tattersall's;
C. the Independent Manager will keep the books and records of Bounty
separate from those of Tattersall's;
D. the Independent Manager will implement specific measures to maintain
the confidentiality of any competitively sensitive information of Bounty,
and Tattersall's will not request access to such information;
E. the Independent Manager will use best endeavours to renew or replace
licensing contracts on expiry on commercial terms no less favourable to
Bounty and enter into new, commercially favourable contracts where
possible;
F. the Independent Manager will maintain current staffing and staffing
levels and ensure that Bounty has access to a sufficient number of
management personnel and staff to operate as a viable going concern;
G. Every 30 calendar days from the date of appointment, the Independent
Manager must provide a written report each month to the Commission in
relation to the operation of Bounty, this Undertaking and each of the
Director Undertakings. The Independent Manager must carry out the
Commission's directions in relation to matters arising from the report;
H. the Independent Manager must review and report to the Commission
regarding any changes made to Bounty made by Tattersall's to ensure
separation of Bounty required by paragraph 2, and make any
recommendation s/he considers appropriate, including, if necessary, steps
to reverse such changes made by Tattersall's;
I.
the Commission can request information from the Independent Manager
directly at any time and the Independent Manager will provide the
information so requested. The Independent Manager can report and
respond to the Commission directly in response to any such request
made, or as otherwise required by the Commission; and
J.
Tattersall's will indemnify the Independent Manager for any expenses,
loss, claim or damage arising from the performance by the Independent
Manager of functions required to be performed by the Independent
Manager by this Undertaking.
Alternative Independent Manager
2.12 The Commission may object to the appointment of the Independent Manager
identified by Tattersall's if the Commission considers in its absolute discretion
the Independent Manager is not independent of Tattersall's or does not have
relevant experience or skills to act as the Independent Manager, or that the
terms of engagement will not enable appropriate hold separate arrangements.
6


Tattersall's undertakes not to challenge any Commission objection to the
proposed Independent Manager.
2.13 If within 10 Business Days of receipt by the Commission of the information
referred to in paragraph 2.9, or such further period as is required by the
Commission and notified to Tattersall's in writing prior to the expiration of the
10 Business Day period, the Commission objects to the proposed Independent
Manager, Tattersall's must, within 5 Business Days of the Commission
nominating an alternative Independent Manager, appoint an Independent
Manager nominated by the Commission on terms (including price) agreed by
the Commission and to be paid by Tattersall's. The alternative Independent
Manager nominated by the Commission must have the relevant experience or
skills to act as the Independent Manager.
Resignation of the Independent Manager
2.14 In the event that the Independent Manager resigns or otherwise stops acting as
the Independent Manager before the Final Divestiture Date, Tattersall's must
within 5 Business Days of the Commission nominating an alternative
Independent Manager, appoint an Independent Manager nominated by the
Commission on terms (including price) agreed by the Commission and to be
paid by Tattersall's. The alternative Independent Manager nominated by the
Commission must have the relevant experience or skills to act as the
Independent Manager.
Termination of Independent Manager
2.15 The Commission must approve any proposal by, and alternatively may direct,
Tattersall's to terminate the Independent Manager if the Independent Manager
acts inconsistently with the provisions of this Undertaking or the terms of its
appointment, and specifically with this paragraph 2. On termination,
Tattersall's must within 5 Business Days of the Commission nominating an
alternative Independent Manager, appoint an Independent Manager nominated
by the Commission on terms (including price) agreed by the Commission and
to be paid by Tattersall's. The alternative Independent Manager nominated by
the Commission must have the relevant experience or skills to act as the
Independent Manager.
Specific obligations relating to Bounty
2.16 In complying with, and without limiting, the obligations in this paragraph 2,
Tattersall's must:
(a)
continue to provide access to reasonable working capital and
sources of credit;
(b)
provide and maintain reasonable levels of administrative,
promotional, technical, advertising and marketing support to
Bounty;
7


ensure that the Independent Manager is fully able to acquire and pay
for sufficient and timely delivery of all goods and services
(including from third parties) required by Bounty;
accept (and direct its officers, employees and agents to accept)
direction from the Independent Manager as to the control,
management, financing and operations of Bounty, and for Bounty to
meet all of its legal, corporate, financial, accounting, taxation, audit
and regulatory obligations;
provide and pay for any external expertise, assistance or advice
required by the Independent Manager to perform his or her role;
continue in accordance with their terms current licensing
arrangements for all software that Bounty uses and has in place with
third parties as at the Trigger Date;
ensure that Bounty has, at Tattersall's cost, access to a reasonably
sufficient number of management personnel and staff to operate as a,
viable going concern;
not procure, promote or encourage the redeployment of management
or staff working at Bounty at the Trigger Date to any other business
operated by Tattersall's;
take any steps directed by the Commission, following a
recommendation of the Independent Manager pursuant to paragraph
2.11H, to reverse changes made by Tattersall's to Bounty, within 10
Business Days of being so directed;
(j)
not, at any time from the Trigger Date, or within one year of the
completion of the sale of Bounty, use any confidential information
gained through the ownership and/or management of Bounty to the
detriment of any aspect of Bounty, including its goodwill,
competitive standing, or commercial viability; and
(k)
direct its managers, officers, employees and agents to act in
accordance with the prohibitions and duties in these Independent
Manager obligations.
2.17 As soon as practicable after the Trigger Date, Tattersall's will:
(a)
direct each member of staff of Bounty not to do anything inconsistent
with Tattersall's obligations in this Undertaking; and
(b)
request that its directors in conducting their role and acting in
accordance with their duties take into consideration and comply, to the
extent not inconsistent with their legal obligations as directors of
Tattersall's, with the obligations referred to in paragraphs 2.16(d) and
(k) as if those obligations applied to them.
8


3. 
Divestiture Process
Sale of Bounty
3.1 
Tattersall's undertakes to complete the sale of Bounty to an Approved
Purchaser within the Divestiture Period.
Sale Process
3.2 
Where Tattersall's proposes to divest Bounty by way of an asset sale,
Tattersall's must provide the Commission and any Proposed Purchaser with a
comprehensive description of the assets, contracts, licences and other elements
that make up Bounty, for its divestiture in accordance with this Undertaking.
3.3 
Where Tattersall's proposes to divest Bounty by way of a sale of shares,
Tattersall's must ensure that the divestiture of shares transfers complete
control of the businesses, assets, contracts, licences and other elements that
make up Bounty, for its divestiture in accordance with this Undertaking.
3.4 
Divestiture by way of a sale of either assets or shares must comply with the
following provisions for the terms on which Bounty is to be divested and the
requirement that such sale can only be to an Approved Purchaser.
Divestiture terms
3.5 
The terms on which Bounty is to be divested (and to be included in the Sale
and Purchase Agreement) must include provision for:
(a)
the assignment or transfer to the purchaser or purchasers of all
material assets that comprise Bounty;
(b)
Tattersall's not to do anything, the intention or likely effect of which
is to discourage any staff of Bounty from taking up employment
with the purchaser, and for Tattersall's to take all reasonable steps to
facilitate the transfer of those employees to the purchaser;
(c)
Tattersall's to procure that the Independent Manager continue to
operate Bounty in the ordinary course of business between the date
of execution of the relevant Sale and Purchase Agreement and the
relevant Divestiture Date; and
(d)
Tattersall's must not, for a period of 1 year from the Divestiture
Date, procure, promote or encourage the redeployment of
management or staff working at Bounty, to any business operated
by Tattersall's.
9


Reporting to the Commission
3.6 
Without limiting the operation of paragraph 8, on the first Business Day of
every month commencing 1 August, 2007 until the Divestiture Date,
Tattersall's will provide a written report to the Commission as to the progress
made in the divestiture of Bounty.
3.7 
Tattersall's will respond in a timely manner to any queries made by the
Commission about the divestiture of Bounty, and in particular, Tattersall's
must, if the Commission requests, provide information to the Commission as
to the attributes and extent of assets and arrangements comprising Bounty.
4. 
Approved Purchaser(s)
Sale only to an Approved Purchaser
4.1 
Tattersall's must not sell, and must not authorise the Divestiture Agent to sell,
Bounty to a purchaser other than an Approved Purchaser.
4.2 
Tattersall's must not contract to sell Bounty on terms which would be
inconsistent with the Divestiture Agent's role, the granting of authority to the
Divestiture Agent under paragraph 5.5 or 5.6, or any other obligation in this
Undertaking.
4.3 
An Approved Purchaser is a Proposed Purchaser which:
(a)
is independent of and has no direct or indirect controlling interest in
Tattersall' s;
(b)
Tattersall's or, in the event that Bounty becomes an Unsold
Business, the Divestiture Agent, believes, in good faith, having
made reasonable inquiries, is of good financial standing and has an
intention to operate Bounty as a going concern; and
(c)
has not been objected to by the Commission in accordance with
paragraph 4.7.
Proposed Purchaser Notice
4.4 
In respect of a Proposed Purchaser, Tattersall's must provide the Commission,
for the purposes of its approval, with a Proposed Purchaser Notice on a
confidential basis that:
(a)
sets out the name, address, telephone number and any other available
contact details of the Proposed Purchaser(s);
(b)
attaches a copy of the proposed Sale and Purchase Agreement;
(c)
includes a description of the business carried on by the Proposed
Purchaser(s);
(d)
includes the names of the owners and directors of the Proposed
Purchaser(s); and
10


(e) includes such other information that the Commission requires to assess
the independence of the Proposed Purchaser.
4.5 
Tattersall's may notify the Commission on a confidential basis of any intended
Proposed Purchaser(s) as early as possible prior to seeking approval under
paragraph 4.3 and request the Commission to advise whether it is likely to
raise any objection to that purchaser. The Commission will do so in a timely
manner provided it receives all information required by paragraph 4.4 other
than paragraph 4.4(b).
4.6 
Tattersall's must not enter into a Sale and Purchase Agreement with a
Proposed Purchaser until the Commission has confirmed in writing that it does
not object to the terms of the proposed Sale and Purchase Agreement. The
Commission will advise Tattersall's that it does not object, or if it does object
of that fact and the reasons therefore, within 15 Business Days after receipt of
the proposed Sale and Purchase Agreement. The Commission may only object
to the terms of the proposed Sale and Purchase Agreement if the Commission
has formed the view that the terms of the proposed Sale and Purchase
Agreement hinder, limit or restrict Bounty from being operated as a viable,
competitive business independent of Tattersall's.
Objection Notice
4.7 
The Commission may, within 15 Business Days after receipt by the
Commission of the Proposed Purchaser Notice, or such further period as is
required by the Commission and notified to Tattersall's in writing prior to the
expiration of the 15 Business Day period, provide Tattersall's with an
Objection Notice. An Objection Notice can be issued by the Commission if it
is of the view that the Proposed Purchaser is not an appropriate purchaser
having regard to the Commission's competition concerns and must give
reasons for that view.
4.8 
If the Commission requires further time, and notifies Tattersall's of this fact,
pursuant to paragraph 4.7 of these Undertakings, the Divestiture Period shall
be extended by the amount of further time, measured in Business Days, that
the Commission takes to either issue Tattersall's with an Objection Notice or
inform Tattersall's, in writing, that it does not intend to issue an Objection
Notice.
4.9 
The Commission may only issue an Objection Notice if it is of the view that
the acquisition of Bounty by the relevant Proposed Purchaser would be likely
to substantially lessen competition in the Queensland electronic gaming
machine monitoring and maintenance market when compared to the
competitive position in this market prior to Tattersall's acquiring Bounty.
4.10 Tattersall's must not divest Bounty to a person named in an Objection Notice.
Tattersall's undertakes not to challenge the Commission's decision to issue an
Objection Notice.
11


Deeming of Approved Purchaser
4.11 Should the Commission fail to provide Tattersall's with an Objection Notice
pursuant to paragraph 4.7, the Proposed Purchaser will be deemed to be an
Approved Purchaser.
5. 
Failure to divest within the Divestiture Period
Sale of Unsold Business
5.1 
In the event that the sale of Bounty is not completed by the end of the
Divestiture Period, Bounty becomes an Unsold Business.
Notification of Proposed Divestiture Agent
5.2 
Within 5 Business Days of Bounty becoming an Unsold Business, Tattersall's
must notify the Commission, in writing, of the identity of the Proposed
Divestiture Agent, together with such information as the Commission requires
to assess whether the Commission will object to the appointment of the
Proposed Divestiture Agent.
Alternative Divestiture Agent
5.3 
If within 10 Business Days of receipt by the Commission of the information
referred to in paragraph 5.2, or in accordance with paragraph 5.10, the
Commission objects to the Proposed Divestiture Agent, Tattersall's must
appoint a Divestiture Agent nominated by the Commission within 10 Business
Days of nomination by the Commission.
5.4 
If agreement cannot be reached between Tattersall's and the Divestiture Agent
nominated by the Commission within 5 Business Days of nomination by the
Commission, Tattersall's will agree to pay such fees as are directed by the
Commission.
Appointment of Divestiture Agent
5.5 
If within 10 Business Days of receipt by the Commission of the information
referred to in paragraph 5.2, or such further period as is required by the
Commission and notified to Tattersall's in writing prior to the expiration of the
10 Business Day period, the Commission does not object to the Proposed
Divestiture Agent, Tattersall's must appoint, within 5 Business Days of the
Commission confirming that it does not object to the Proposed Divestiture
Agent, the Proposed Divestiture Agent as a Divestiture Agent, in accordance
with the minimum terms of appointment set out in this paragraph and forward
to the Commission a copy of the executed terms of appointment.
12


5.6 
The appointment of the Divestiture Agent must be on terms approved by the
Commission, which should include terms to the effect that the Divestiture
Agent:
(a)
is empowered by Tattersall's and required to effect the divestiture of
the Unsold Business, only to an Approved Purchaser or Approved
Purchasers, before the Final Divestiture Date, at the best price that is
attainable within that period, but subject to an absolute and
unconditional obligation to sell the Unsold Business at no minimum
price;
(b)
may charge such fees as are agreed between the Divestiture Agent
and Tattersall's (but not contingent on the price to be obtained for
the Unsold Business), to be paid by Tattersall's. If agreement
cannot be reached between the Divestiture Agent and Tattersall's
within 5 Business Days from the date of the Commission's notice
that it does not object to the Proposed Divestiture Agent, Tattersall's
will agree to pay such fees as are directed by the Commission;
(c)
is the only person who may divest the Unsold Business;
(d)
may retain any lawyer or other adviser or agent reasonably required
to effect the divestiture of the Unsold Business, and the fees of that
adviser or agent must be paid by Tattersall's;
(e)
must account to Tattersall's for:
(i)
any moneys derived from the divestiture of the Unsold
Business;
(ii)
all disbursements, fees and charges incurred by the Divestiture
Agent in undertaking his/her duties; and
(iii)
all fees of the Divestiture Agent;
(0 
must provide a written report on the first Business Day of each
month until the Divestiture Date to the Commission and Tattersall's,
or answer any enquiries of either the Commission or Tattersall's,
concerning:
(i)
the efforts made to sell the Unsold Business;
(ii)
the identity of any advisers engaged;
(iii) costs incurred;
(iv)
the identity of any persons expressing interest in Bounty; or
(v)
any other information required by the Commission or
Tattersall's; and
(g) 
must use best endeavours to ensure that Tattersall's complies with
its obligations as set out in this Undertaking and notify the
Commission of any material failure by Tattersall's to do so.
13


Powers of Divestiture Agent
5.7 
Tattersall's will grant the Divestiture Agent an irrevocable power of attorney
conferring all necessary power and authority to effect the divestiture of the
Unsold Business on terms considered by the Divestiture Agent in its sole
discretion to be consistent with this Undertaking.
Assistance to Divestiture Agent
5.8 
Tattersall's must provide the Divestiture Agent all relevant information
available to Tattersall's in respect of the Unsold Business and reasonably
assist the Divestiture Agent to effect the divestiture of the Unsold Business as
quickly as possible.
Provision of information to the Commission by the Divestiture Agent
5.9 The Commission can request information from the Divestiture Agent directly
at any time. Tattersall's undertakes to require the Divestiture Agent to report
and respond to the Commission directly in response to any such request, or as
otherwise required by the Commission.
Termination of Divestiture Agent
5.10 The Commission must approve any proposal by, and alternatively may direct,
Tattersall's to terminate the Divestiture Agent if the Divestiture Agent acts
inconsistently with the provisions of this Undertaking, including this
paragraph 5. On termination, the Commission can appoint at its discretion an
alternative Divestiture Agent, in accordance with paragraph 5.3.
6. 
Obligations to Procure and Notify
6.1 
Where performance of an obligation under this Undertaking requires a Related
Body Corporate of Tattersall's to take or refrain from taking some action,
Tattersall's will use its best endeavours to procure that Related Body
Corporate to take or refrain from taking that action as the case may be.
6.2 
Any notice or other communication pursuant to this Undertaking must as
appropriate be sent to:
The Commission
Australian Competition & Consumer Commission
Attention: General Manager: General Manager, Mergers & Asset Sales
Fax number: (02) 6243 1212
14


Tattersall's
Tattersall's Limited
Attention: General Counsel & Company Secretary
Fax Number: (03) 8517 7752
or in whatever manner the Commission or Tattersall's subsequently notifies
each other.
7. 
Confidentiality and No Derogation
7.1 
The period specified as the Divestiture Period and the Final Divestiture Period
and the identity of any Proposed Approved Purchaser under paragraphs 4.4
and 4.5 of the Undertaking is, and will be, provided to the Commission on a
confidential basis.
7.2 
Tattersall's acknowledges that nothing in this Undertaking:
(a)
restricts the right of the Commission to take action under the
Act in the event that divestiture of Bounty is not implemented
in accordance with the Undertaking; nor
(b)
prevents the Commission from taking enforcement action at
any time whether during or after the period of this Undertaking
in respect of any breach by Tattersall's of this Undertaking.
8. 
Further Information
8.1 
Tattersall's will provide the Commission with copies of any executed
agreement in connection with the sale of Bounty within 5 Business Days of it
being entered into.
8.2 
At the Commission's direction, Tattersall's will itself, and will procure that its
directors, employees, agents or contractors identified by the Commission:
(a)
furnish information to the Commission;
(b)
produce documents to the Commission within
Tattersall's custody, control or power; and/or
(c)
attend the Commission at a time and place appointed by
the Commission to answer any questions the
Commission (its Commissioner, staff or agents) may
have,
in relation to Tattersall's compliance with this Undertaking.
15


8.3 Information furnished, documents produced or information given in answer to
questions may be used by the Commission for any purpose consistent with its
statutory duties.
8.4 
Any direction made by the Commission under paragraph 8.2 will be notified
to the Company Secretary of Tattersall's.
9. 
Acknowledgement
Tattersall's acknowledges that the Commission may:
(a) make the Undertaking available for public inspection; and
(b) from time to time publicly refer to the Undertaking.
10. Definitions and interpretation
10.1 
Definitions
In this Undertaking, unless the context indicates otherwise:
Act means the Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth).
Approved Purchaser has the meaning ascribed in paragraph 4.3 of this
Undertaking.
Bounty means collectively Bounty Limited ACN 096 276 292, Bounty
Systems Pty Limited ACN 090 692 489, Clubline Systems Pty Limited ACN
090 524 039 and Infolink Systems Pty Limited ACN 051 065 117 and
includes all the businesses conducted by Bounty, being the development,
marketing, supply and support of gaming technology systems for use in the
hotel and club industries in Australia and overseas.
Business Day means a day on which all banks are open for business generally
in the State of Victoria but does not include any Saturday, Sunday or public
holiday.
Commission means the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission.
Corporations Act means the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth).
Director Undertaking means an undertaking in the form set out in Schedule 2
of this Undertaking and accepted by the Commission.
Divestiture Date means the date on which the Commission confirms in
writing to Tattersall's that it is satisfied that the divestiture of Bounty is
completed and settled by or on behalf of Tattersall's, under this Undertaking.
16


Divestiture Agent means a person appointed by Tattersall's to effect the sale
of the Unsold Business, and not objected to by the Commission, pursuant to
paragraph 5.5.
Divestiture Period means the period prescribed in Confidential Schedule 1.
Final Divestiture Date means, in the event that the divestment of Bounty has
not been concluded within the Divestment Period, the date prescribed in
Confidential Schedule 1.
GCLC means Golden Casket Lottery Corporation Ltd ACN 078 785 449.
Independent Manager means a person independent of Tattersall's appointed
by Tattersall's and not objected to by the Commission to manage and operate
Bounty. Without limitation, the following persons shall not be considered
independent of Tattersall's:
•
current employees or officers of Tattersall's;
•
persons who were employees or officers of Tattersall's or GCLC in the
past three years;
•
shareholders who, in the opinion of the Commission, hold a material
number of shares in Tattersall's;
•
professional advisors of Tattersall's or GCLC, whether current or in
the last three years;
•
persons who have a contractual relationship with Tattersall's;
•
persons who are suppliers of Tattersall's; or
•
persons who are material customers of Tattersall's.
Maxgaming means Maxgaming Holdings Pty Ltd ACN 079 909 541 and
Maxgaming Qld Pty Ltd ACN 078 963 050.
Objection Notice means a notice in writing prepared by the Commission
which sets out its objection to a Proposed Purchaser(s) acquiring Bounty, in
accordance with paragraph 4.7.
Odyssey means Odyssey Gaming Services Pty Ltd ACN 061 363 139, a
wholly-owned subsidiary of Odyssey Gaming Limited ACN 074 735 452.
Proposed Acquisition means the proposed acquisition by Tattersall's, via
Tattersall's Holdings, of all of the shares in GCLC.
Proposed Divestiture Agent means a person proposed by Tattersall's to be
the Divestiture Agent who must be independent of Tattersall's and with the
17


relevant experience and possessing the necessary qualifications to act as the
Divestiture Agent.
Proposed Purchaser means a proposed purchaser of Bounty.
Proposed Purchaser Notice means a confidential notice in writing to the
Commission that identifies the person(s) to whom Tattersall's proposes to
divest Bounty, and sets out certain other information in relation to the
Proposed Purchaser including the information referred to in paragraph 4.4 of
this Undertaking.
Related Body Corporate has the same meaning ascribed to that term in the
Corporations Act but excludes Bounty.
Sale and Purchase Agreement means the agreement or agreements in respect
of the sale and purchase of Bounty.
Sentinel Software means the Sentinel software used in the Sentinel software
monitoring system owned by Bounty and licensed to, inter alia, Odyssey.
Tattersall's means Tattersall's Limited ACN 108 686 040 and all of its
Related Bodies Corporate, which includes GCLC but does not include Bounty.
Tattersall's Holdings means Tattersall's Holdings Pty Ltd ACN 081 925 706.
Trigger Date means 29 June 2007.
Undertaking means the undertakings made by Tattersall's in this document.
Unsold Business means Bounty if the divestment of Bounty has not been
completed by the conclusion of the Divestiture Period.
10.2. Interpretation
The following rules of interpretation apply unless the context requires
otherwise.
(a)
Headings are for convenience only and do not affect interpretation.
(b)
The singular includes the plural and conversely.
(c)
Where a word or phrase is defined, its other grammatical forms have a
corresponding meaning.
(d)
A reference to a person includes any corporation or non-natural person.
(e)
A reference to a paragraph, annexure or schedule is to a paragraph of,
or annexure or schedule to, this Undertaking.
18


(f)
A reference to any agreement or document (including the Undertaking)
is to that agreement or document as amended, novated, supplemented,
varied or replaced from time to time.
(g)
A reference to any legislation or to any provision of any legislation
includes any modification or re-enactment of it, any legislative
provision substituted for it, and all regulations and statutory
instruments issued under it.
(h)
A reference to conduct includes any omission and any statement or
undertaking, whether or not in writing.
(i)
Mentioning anything after include, includes or including, does not
limit what else might be included.
(j)
A reference to 'the Undertaking' or 'this Undertaking' is a reference to
all of the provisions of this document including any schedule.
(k)
A construction that would promote the purpose or object underlying
the Undertaking (whether expressly stated or not) shall be preferred to
a construction that would not promote that purpose or object.
(1) 
Material not forming part of this Undertaking may be considered to:
(i)
confirm the meaning of a paragraph is the ordinary
meaning conveyed by the text of the paragraph, taking
into account its context in the Undertaking and the
competition concerns intended to be addressed by the
Undertaking and the paragraph in question; or
(ii)
determine the meaning of the paragraph when the
ordinary meaning conveyed by the text of the
paragraph, taking into account its context in the
Undertaking and the purpose or object underlying the
Undertaking, leads to a result that does not promote the
purpose or object underlying the Undertaking.
(m) 
In determining whether consideration should be given to any material
in accordance with paragraph (1), or in considering any weight to be
given to any such material, regard shall be had, in addition to any other
relevant matters, to the:
(i)
effect that reliance on the ordinary meaning conveyed
by the text of the paragraph would have (taking into
account its context in the Undertaking and whether that
meaning promotes the purpose or object of the
Undertaking); and
(ii)
the need to ensure that the result of the Undertaking is
to address the Commission's competition concerns.
19


(n) 
In performing its obligations under this Undertaking, Tattersall's will
do everything reasonably in its power to ensure that its performance of
those obligations is done in a manner which is consistent with
promoting the purpose and object of the Undertaking.
Executed by Tattersall's Limited
ACN 108 686 040 in accordance
with section 127 of the Corporations
Act by or in the presence of:
VAlls.,-4,•67-1
Signature of Director 
Signature of EizerWriSecretary
A.J /07.6 II. A,
?t- -1\ 
CI? ty,   
Name of Director (please print) 
Name of  Dircctor/Secretary
(please print)
Date: CI 
CC1+-
Accepted by the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission pursuant to
Section 87B of the Trade Practices Act 1974.
C
Graeme Julian Samuel
Chairman
(Do I V -1/ `77
Date:
-e
20


CONFIDENTIAL SCHEDULE 1
21


SCHEDULE 2
Undertakings under Section 87B of the Trade Practices Act
Recitals
A. 
On 16 April 2007 Tattersall's announced it had agreed to acquire, via its
wholly owned subsidiary Tattersall's Holdings, all of the shares in Golden
Casket Lottery Corporation (GCLC), the lottery operator in Queensland
(Proposed Acquisition).
B. 
GCLC has the following wholly owned subsidiaries: Bounty Limited, Bounty
Systems Pty Ltd, Clubline Systems Pty Ltd and Infolink Systems Pty Ltd
(collectively, Bounty). Bounty provides a range of management and
monitoring software for use in the club and hotel industries in Australia and
overseas. It also owns the intellectual property to a number of software
programs used in the electronic gaming machine industry, including
"Sentinel", "Compass" and "Clubline".
C. 
At the date of the Tattersall's Undertakings, the active licensed monitoring
operators in Queensland are:
(a) Maxgaming Holdings Pty Ltd and Maxgaming Qld Pty Ltd (collectively
referred to as Maxgaming), both being wholly owned subsidiaries of
Tattersall's; and
(b) Odyssey Gaming Services Pty Ltd.
"Sentinel" is licensed by Bounty to Odyssey, on a non-exclusive basis, and is
used by Odyssey to monitor electronic gaming machines in Queensland.
D. 
On 14 May 2007, the Commission announced it had commenced an informal
review of the Proposed Acquisition. The Commission made market inquiries
and considered the information provided by Tattersall's and other market
participants. The Commission's inquiries were aimed at determining whether
or not the Proposed Acquisition would be likely to substantially lessen
competition in any substantial Australian market, in contravention of section
50 of the Act.
E. 
The Commission came to the view that the relevant market for the purposes of
assessing the Proposed Acquisition was the market for the monitoring and
maintenance of electronic gaming machines in Queensland.
F. 
After undertaking extensive market inquiries, the Commission came to the
view that barriers to entry into the relevant monitoring and maintenance
market were such that new entry is unlikely to provide a competitive
constraint on Tattersall's behaviour in the relevant market post-acquisition. In
forming this view, the Commission considered that the long lead times
associated with new entry, as well as the scale of entry required, pose
22


substantial barriers to viable entry into the market that are unlikely to be
overcome in the next two years.
G.
In this context, the Commission considered that the Proposed Acquisition
would increase Tattersall's incentive and ability to increase the price paid by
Odyssey for monitoring software and technical support and/or decrease the
level of service and technical support provided to Odyssey.
H.
The Commission therefore concluded that the Proposed Acquisition was likely
to raise substantial competition concerns in the market for monitoring and
maintenance of electronic gaming machines in Queensland.
I.
Tattersall's has previously denied and continues to deny that the Proposed
Acquisition and, specifically, the acquisition of Bounty would, or would be
likely to, substantially lessen competition in contravention of section 50 of the
Act.
J.
Tattersall's without admission, offered to the Commission, pursuant to section
87B of the Act, undertakings to divest Bounty, in order to address and remedy
the Commission's concerns as outlined in these Recitals (Tattersall's
Undertakings). The Tattersall's Undertakings, inter alia, require Tattersall's
to maintain and operate Bounty independently of and separate to the
Tattersall's business in the period prior to divestiture.
K.
This Undertaking seeks to ensure that, for the duration of the Undertaking,
information confidential to Bounty is not made available to Tattersall's, or any
of its Related Bodies Corporate and no Tattersall's person with access to
Bounty non-public information, participates in any way in discussions or
consideration of issues affecting the Queensland electronic gaming machine
monitoring and maintenance market.
L.
On the basis of the implementation of the terms of the Tattersall's
Undertakings, the Commission did not object to the Proposed Acquisition.
1. 
Commencement and Duration of Undertaking
1.1 
This Undertaking comes into effect from the Trigger Date.
Termination
1.2 
This Undertaking will terminate on the first to occur of:
i.
the date on which the Commission consents to the withdrawal of the
Undertaking in accordance with section 87B of the Act; or
ii. the first anniversary of the Divestiture Date.
23


2. 
Undertaking and acknowledgement
I undertake to the Commission that, unless otherwise permitted by this
Undertaking or the Tattersall's Undertakings or as required by law:
(a) I will not use or disclose any non-public information acquired in the course
of performing my duties as a director of Bounty and will not use that
information for the benefit of any person other than Bounty; and
(b) I will not, as a director, consultant or employee of Tattersall's, or any of
its Related Bodies Corporate, participate in any way in discussions or
consideration of issues affecting the Queensland electronic gaming
machine monitoring and maintenance market (which for the avoidance of
doubt does not include discussions or consideration of issues within
Tattersall's relating to the divestment process of Bounty):
i.
while I am a director of Bounty; or
ii. have access to or knowledge of any of Bounty's non-public
information acquired in the course of performing my duties as a
director of Bounty and which is relevant to such an issue.
3. 
Independent Manager
I undertake to cooperate fully with the Independent Manager and to provide
the Independent Manager with such information and assistance as is necessary
to enable the Independent Manager to carry out his or her functions as set out
in the Tattersall's Undertakings.
4. 
Further Information
4.1 
At the Commission's direction, I will:
(a) furnish information to the Commission;
(b) produce documents to the Commission in relation to which I have
custody, control or power; and/or
(c) attend the Commission at a time and place appointed by the Commission
to answer any questions the Commission (its Commissioners, its staff or
its agents) may have,
in relation to my compliance with this Undertaking.
4.2 Information furnished, documents produced or information given in answer to
questions may be used by the Commission for any purpose consistent with its
statutory functions.
24


5. 
Acknowledgement
I acknowledge that the Commission may:
(a) make the Undertaking available for public inspection; and
(b) from time to time publicly refer to the Undertaking.
6. 
Definitions and interpretation
Definitions
In this Undertaking, unless the context indicates otherwise:
Act means the Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth).
Bounty means collectively Bounty Limited ACN 096 276 292, Bounty
Systems Pty Limited ACN 090 692 489, Clubline Systems Pty Limited ACN
090 524 039 and Infolink Systems Pty Limited ACN 051 065 117 and
includes all the businesses conducted by Bounty, being the development,
marketing, supply and support of gaming technology systems for use in the
hotel and club industries in Australia and overseas.
Commission means the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission.
Corporations Act means the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth).
Divestiture Date means the date on which the Commission confirms in
writing to Tattersall's that it is satisfied that the divestiture of Bounty is
completed and settled by or on behalf of Tattersall's in accordance with the
Tattersall's Undertakings.
GCLC means Golden Casket Lottery Corporation Ltd ACN 078 785 449.
Independent Manager means a person independent of Tattersall's appointed
by Tattersall's and not objected to by the Commission to manage and operate
Bounty. Without limitation, the following persons shall not be considered
independent of Tattersall's:
•
current employees or officers of Tattersall's;
•
persons who were employees or officers of Tattersall's or GCLC in the
past three years;
•
shareholders who, in the opinion of the Commission, hold a material
number of shares in Tattersall's;
•
professional advisors of Tattersall's or GCLC, whether current or in
the last three years;
25


•
persons who have a contractual relationship with Tattersall's;
•
persons who are suppliers of Tattersall's; or
•
persons who are material customers of Tattersall's.
Maxgaming means Maxgaming Holdings Pty Ltd ACN 079 909 541 and
Maxgaming Qld Pty Ltd ACN 078 963 050.
Odyssey means Odyssey Gaming Services Pty Ltd ACN 061 363 139, a
wholly-owned subsidiary of Odyssey Gaming Limited ACN 074 735 452.
Proposed Acquisition means the proposed acquisition by Tattersall's, via
Tattersall's Holdings, of all of the shares in GCLC.
Related Body Corporate has the same meaning ascribed to that term in the
Corporations Act but, for the removal of doubt, excludes Bounty.
Tattersall's means Tattersall's Limited ACN 108 686 040 and all of its
Related Bodies Corporate, which includes GCLC but does not include Bounty.
Tattersall's Holdings means Tattersall's Holdings Pty Ltd ACN 081 925 706.
Tattersall's Undertakings means the undertakings given by Tattersall's
under section 87B of the Act and accepted by the Commission on
[DATE].
Trigger Date means 29 June, 2007.
Undertaking means the undertakings made by the [NAME] in this document.
7. 
Interpretation
The following rules of interpretation apply to this Undertaking unless the
context requires otherwise:
(a)
headings are for convenience only and do not affect interpretation;
(b)
the singular includes the plural and the plural includes the singular;
(c)
where a word or phrase is defined, its other grammatical forms have a
corresponding meaning;
(d)
a reference to a person includes any corporation or non-natural person;
(e)
a reference to a paragraph, annexure or schedule is to a paragraph of,
or annexure or schedule to, this Undertaking;
26


(f)
a reference to any agreement or document (including the Undertaking)
is to that agreement or document as amended, novated, supplemented,
varied or replaced from time to time;
(g)
a reference to any legislation or to any provision of any legislation
includes any modification or re-enactment of it, any legislative
provision substituted for it, and all regulations and statutory
instruments issued under it;
(h)
a reference to conduct includes any omission and any statement or
undertaking, whether or not in writing;
(i)
mentioning anything after include, includes or including, does not limit
what else might be included;
(j)
a reference to 'the Undertaking' or 'this Undertaking' is a reference to
all of the provisions of this document including any schedule;
(k)
a construction that would promote the purpose or object underlying the
Undertaking (whether expressly stated or not) shall be preferred to a
construction that would not promote that purpose or object;
(1) 
material not forming part of this Undertaking may be considered to:
(iii)
confirm the meaning of a paragraph is the ordinary meaning
conveyed by the text of the paragraph, taking into account its
context in the Undertaking and the competition concerns
intended to be addressed by the Undertaking and the paragraph
in question; or
(iv)
determine the meaning of the paragraph when the ordinary
meaning conveyed by the text of the paragraph, taking into
account its context in the Undertaking and the purpose or object
underlying the Undertaking, leads to a result that does not
promote the purpose or object underlying the Undertaking,
(m) 
In determining whether consideration should be given to any material
in accordance with paragraph (1), or in considering any weight to be
given to any such material, regard shall be had, in addition to any other
relevant matters, to the:
(iii)
effect that reliance on the ordinary meaning conveyed
by the text of the paragraph would have (taking into
account its context in the Undertaking and whether that
meaning promotes the purpose or object of the
Undertaking); and
(iv)
the need to ensure that the result of the Undertaking is
to address the Commission's competition concerns.
27


(n) 
In performing my obligations under this Undertaking, I will do
everything reasonably in my power to ensure that my performance of
these obligations is done in a manner which is consistent with
promoting the purpose and object of the Undertaking.
Executed by:
[NAME]
in the presence of:
Name of Witness
Signature
Date: 
Signature of Witness
Accepted by the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission pursuant to
Section 87B of the Trade Practices Act 1974.
Graeme Julian Samuel
Chairman
Date:
28
