 
 
 
 
16 July 2008 
Statement of Issues – Medibank Private – proposed 
acquisition of Australian Health Management Group 
1. 
Outlined below is the Statement of Issues released by the Australian 
Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) in relation to the proposed 
acquisition (proposed acquisition) of Australian Health Management Group 
Limited (AHM) by Medibank Private Limited (Medibank). 
2. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well 
as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
3. 
In accordance with the ACCC’s Merger Review Process Guidelines1, the 
ACCC has established a secondary timeline for further consideration of the 
competition issues arising from the proposed acquisition. The ACCC anticipates 
completing further market inquiries by 30 July 2008 with a proposed date for 
announcement of the ACCC’s decision of 13 August 2008. However, the 
anticipated timeline can change in line with the Merger Review Process 
Guidelines. To keep abreast of possible changes in relation to timing and to find 
relevant documents, market participants should visit the Mergers Register on the 
ACCC’s website at www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
4. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties 
(including customers, competitors, suppliers and other stakeholders) to ascertain 
and consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to 
provide the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making 
further submissions should they consider it necessary. 
Background 
5. 
On 13 June 2008, the ACCC became aware of the public announcement of the 
proposed acquisition and commenced an informal merger review in accordance 
with the ACCC’s Merger Review Process Guidelines.  
                                                 
1 The ACCC’s Merger Review Process Guidelines are available on the ACCC’s website at 
www.accc.gov.au  
  1


Relevant parties 
Medibank 
6. 
Medibank is a Government Business Enterprise, being Australia’s largest not-
for-profit provider of private health insurance (PHI), covering nearly 3 million 
Australians. Medibank has a presence in each Australian state and territory, with 
approximately 100 retail centres Australia-wide.  
7. 
Medibank also provides health management services to its members through a 
third party health management services provider.  
AHM 
8. 
AHM is a not-for-profit PHI provider based in Wollongong operating under a 
number of business names including AHM, Australian Country Health, Country 
Health, Government Employees, Illawarra Health Fund and Mutual Health. 
AHM does not have any retail centres but it does operate three dental and 
optical practices in NSW.  
9. 
Although AHM’s core business is the supply of PHI, it also operates ‘Total 
Health’ which is an online business offering health management services. Such 
services include disease management, assisted hospital discharge, health 
assessments, health coaching and pregnancy support.  AHM provides health 
management services to its PHI consumers directly as well as to third parties 
including corporates, government and rival PHI providers.  
Market inquiries 
10. 
On 13 June 2008 the ACCC commenced market inquiries regarding the 
proposed acquisition. A range of interested parties provided responses, 
including PHI providers, health management service providers, government 
agencies and private hospitals.  
Industry background 
11. 
The main participants in the PHI industry are PHI providers, hospital operators, 
doctors and consumers (PHI customers and patients). The PHI industry is 
different from most industries in that although patients use the hospital service, 
it is generally the doctors who determine where they will be treated and their 
PHI provider pays for most, if not all, of the in-hospital services. PHI providers 
directly negotiate with private hospitals for the provision of services to their 
members when and if they are required.  
12. 
Providers of PHI offer consumers insurance cover for hospital services 
(Hospital Cover) and ancillary services (Ancillary Cover). Consumers can 
choose to purchase Hospital Cover and Ancillary Cover separately or together 
and can hold Hospital Cover and Ancillary Cover with different PHI providers.  
13. 
In addition, PHI providers are increasingly offering health management services 
which aim to prevent or manage chronic disease.2 At present most PHI 
                                                 
2 In part, this is due to the stated desire of the new Federal Government to have PHI providers more 
proactively involved in health management initiatives.  
  2


providers offer information-based health management services but there is a 
gradual movement towards active intervention services.  
14. 
PHI providers typically offer different levels of cover to meet the needs of 
different consumers. The range of PHI products which a PHI provider may offer 
to consumers (including specific features of PHI products) is subject to 
regulation. Changes to PHI premiums can only be made annually and are 
subject to approval by the Federal Minister for Health and Ageing.  
15. 
Additionally, the regulatory principle of Community Rating requires that each 
customer who holds a particular policy type will, in each state, pay the same 
premium.3 
16. 
A PHI provider must be registered in accordance with the Private Health 
Insurance Act 2007 to supply PHI products to Australian consumers. There are 
currently 38 registered PHI providers in Australia, 25 of which are open to the 
general public and 13 of which operate on a restricted membership basis. The 
PHI industry is generally concentrated with the two largest PHI providers 
having a large share of PHI policies nationally. Medibank and AHM are open 
membership funds.  
Statement of Issues 
17. 
For the purposes of this Statement of Issues, the issues in this matter are divided 
into two categories, ‘issues that may give rise to concerns’ and ‘issues unlikely 
to pose concerns’. The ACCC is inviting information from interested parties in 
relation to all issues. 
Issues that may give rise to concerns 
Health management services 
18. 
Market inquiries indicated that the proposed acquisition may provide Medibank 
with an increased ability and incentive to foreclose competition in PHI 
consumer markets by restricting or limiting the supply of health management 
services.  
19. 
In particular, interested parties indicated that:  
▪ 
health management services enable PHI providers to better manage their 
costs by assisting to reduce the extent to which PHI consumers make claims 
and are increasingly being used by PHI providers to underpin their 
competitiveness;  
▪ 
AHM is a significant provider of third party health management services to 
small to medium PHI providers and there are limited alternatives for the 
services provided by AHM, including due to some health management 
services providers having exclusive arrangements with PHI providers; and  
                                                 
3 The policy objective of Community Rating is to prevent PHI providers from price discriminating on 
the basis of age, health status, etc. Exceptions apply for loadings for Lifetime Health Cover and the 
limited range of permitted discounting measures. 
  3


▪ 
the potential for the merged entity to cease providing third party health 
management services to rival small to medium PHI providers would be 
likely to reduce the ability of small to medium PHI providers to effectively 
compete in PHI markets.  
20. 
The ACCC invites further information and views as to: 
▪ 
the significance of third party health management services in underpinning 
the competitiveness of small to medium PHI providers;  
▪ 
the significance of small to medium PHI providers in providing a 
competitive constraint on the merged entity;  
▪ 
the extent to which substitutes may be available post-acquisition for the 
third party health management services currently provided by AHM, 
including from smaller regional health management services providers;  
▪ 
the extent to which exclusive arrangements with respect to health 
management services may limit the ability of small to medium PHI 
providers to obtain third party health management services; and 
▪ 
the extent of barriers to entry and expansion in the supply of health 
management services including by:  
- 
major PHI providers  
- 
small to medium PHI providers, either individually or collectively;  
- 
existing smaller regional health management services providers; and  
- 
established health management services providers operating in other 
markets.  
PHI distribution intermediaries 
21. 
Market inquiries indicated that there is the potential for AHM to cease using 
PHI distribution intermediaries post-acquisition. The ACCC is considering 
whether this could impact on other PHI providers using PHI distribution 
intermediaries and have the effect of substantially lessening competition.  
22. 
Market inquiries indicated that PHI distribution intermediaries have played a 
significant role in PHI consumer markets, particularly in the provision of 
marketing services. However, interested parties also indicated there are a 
number of distribution channels available to PHI providers such that the 
operation of PHI distribution intermediaries may not be determinative of the 
structure of competition post-acquisition.  
23. 
The ACCC invites any comments on the extent to which the impact of the 
proposed acquisition on PHI distribution intermediaries may raise competition 
concerns.  
  4


Private hospital services buying groups 
24. 
Market inquiries indicated that private hospital buying groups have a very 
important role in PHI consumer markets, in particular, through the acquisition 
of private hospital services on behalf of small to medium PHI providers.  
25. 
Interested parties indicated that there is the potential for AHM to cease 
participating in private hospital buying groups post-acquisition. The ACCC 
considered whether this could impact on PHI providers participating in private 
hospital buying groups post-acquisition and have the effect of substantially 
lessening competition.  
26. 
However, interested parties also indicated that AHM is one of a number of 
current and potential participants in private hospital buying groups such that the 
ability of private hospital buying groups to provide services to members and the 
competitive constraint imposed by small to medium PHI providers may not be 
reduced to the substantial detriment of competition.  
27. 
The ACCC invites any comments on the extent to which the impact of the 
proposed acquisition on private hospital buying groups may raise competition 
concerns.  
Issues unlikely to pose concerns 
28. 
Market inquiries indicated the proposed acquisition is unlikely to raise 
competition concerns in relation to the supply of PHI to consumers or in relation 
to the acquisition of services from private hospitals as a result of the 
combination of Medibank and AHM’s PHI membership base.  
29. 
The ACCC will accept further submissions from industry participants and will 
further consider these issues if it considers that such an assessment is warranted.  
ACCC’s future steps 
30. 
The ACCC now seeks submissions from interested parties on each of the issues 
identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that may be relevant 
to the ACCC’s assessment of this matter. Submissions are to be received by the 
ACCC no later than 30 July 2008. 
31. 
The ACCC will consider submissions received from interested parties, 
Medibank and AHM in light of the issues identified above and will, in 
conjunction with information and submissions already provided by Medibank, 
come to a final view as to the appropriate course of action to take to resolve any 
competition concerns that remain.  
32. 
The ACCC intends to publicly announce its decision in relation to the proposed 
acquisition by 13 August 2008. However, the anticipated timeline may change 
in line with the Merger Review Process Guidelines. A Public Competition 
Assessment for the purpose of explaining the ACCC’s final view may be 
published following the ACCC’s public announcement. 
  
  5
