 
i 
 
Public Competition Assessment 
9 September 2010 
National Australia Bank Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia 
Pacific Holdings Limited 
AMP Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings 
Limited 
Executive Summary 
 
1. 
On 19 April 2010, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission 
(ACCC) announced its decision to oppose the proposed acquisition of AXA Asia 
Pacific Holdings Limited’s Australian and New Zealand businesses (AXA) by 
National Australia Bank Ltd (NAB) (NAB proposed acquisition). The ACCC 
also announced its decision not to oppose the competing bid for AXA by AMP 
Limited (AMP) (AMP proposed acquisition). 
 
2. 
The ACCC took the view that the NAB proposed acquisition would be likely to 
have the effect of substantially lessening, preventing or hindering competition in a 
market in contravention of section 50 of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (the Act). 
 
3. 
Subsequently, NAB and AXA proposed a set of undertakings pursuant to section 
87B of the Act with the joint aim of remedying the ACCC’s competition concerns 
(the proposed undertakings). 
 
4. 
On 9 September 2010, the ACCC announced its decision to reject the proposed 
undertakings. 
 
5. 
This executive summary provides a brief outline of the key reasons for the 
ACCC’s decisions on the NAB and AMP proposed acquisitions and the proposed 
undertakings. Further information is contained in the body of this Public 
Competition Assessment. 
 
NAB proposed acquisition 
 
6. 
The ACCC canvassed a range of potential competition issues in relation to the 
NAB proposed acquisition, including the impact across retail and 
corporate/institutional banking markets given that NAB is one of the four major 
banks in Australia. 
 


National Australia Bank Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited  
AMP Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited 
 
-ii- 
Banking sector 
 
7. 
AXA’s operations focus on wealth management products and services and do not 
extend into retail and corporate/institutional banking. Accordingly, the NAB 
proposed acquisition was considered unlikely to directly increase NAB’s presence 
in areas such as transaction accounts, home loans, credit cards, business banking, 
or other retail or corporate/institutional banking markets. 
 
8. 
The ACCC did note that while the NAB proposed acquisition might provide NAB 
with some further opportunities for cross selling its retail banking products and 
wealth management products, inquiries indicated that customers typically tend to 
seek out wealth management products and services from dedicated financial 
service outlets. On the basis of the information available, the ACCC considered 
that the NAB proposed acquisition was unlikely to substantially lessen 
competition in banking markets. 
 
Wealth management sector 
 
9. 
The ACCC’s review of the NAB proposed acquisition focused on the wealth 
management sector, where both NAB and AXA are competitors. In particular, in 
relation to the supply of retail investment platforms for investors with complex 
investment needs, the ACCC considered that AXA’s next generation full service 
wrap platform is likely to compete closely with NAB’s Navigator platform. It is 
this area where competition concerns were identified in respect of the NAB 
proposed acquisition. 
 
10. The wealth management sector is an important aspect of the Australian economy. 
Overall, managed funds, including superannuation funds, in the Australian wealth 
management sector totalled approximately $1,300 billion as at December 2009.  
 
Retail investment platforms 
 
11. Retail investment platforms provide a central link between investment product 
providers, financial planners and investors. To access a broad range of wealth 
management products and services, retail investors rely on the network of 
financial planners operating across Australia. In turn, financial planners rely 
heavily upon retail investment platforms to provide services to retail investors. 
 
12. Retail investment platforms offer considerable benefits to financial planners in the 
form of, among other things, administrative efficiency and functionality which 
reduce the time, cost and burden of investing in, managing and reporting on a 
client’s investment portfolio (e.g. access to consolidated client information, tax 
reporting, transaction statements, portfolio management and online access to 
share trading). 
 
13. Some of the key elements of the success of a retail investment platform include 
the ability to offer a range of attractive investment products, access to a strong 
distribution network via financial planners and the capacity to invest in the 
development and maintenance of technological functionality to meet the needs of 
investors and their financial planners. 
 


National Australia Bank Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited  
AMP Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited 
 
-iii- 
14. The ACCC’s investigation indicated that there are two categories of retail 
investment platforms and concluded that these formed separate markets. These 
markets are:  
 
(i) 
retail investment platforms for investors with complex investment needs, 
such as full service wrap platforms; and  
 
(ii) retail investment platforms for investors with simple investment needs, such 
as master trusts and mini-wrap platforms. 
 
15. The market for retail investment platforms for investors with complex investment 
needs is substantial, with many billions of dollars in funds invested through these 
platforms.  
 
16. The ACCC’s investigation indicated that demand for retail investment platforms 
is primarily driven by financial planners. In particular, retail platform providers 
compete to attract financial planners to use their platforms by investing in 
innovation. Accordingly, the ACCC formed the view that platform functionality 
(including service) is a key driver of competition in attracting new fund inflows. 
 
17. Other drivers of platform competition include the breadth and quality of 
investment options available on the platform, platform administration fees and 
volume rebates (paid to financial planners or their associated dealer group). 
 
18. In the market for retail investment platforms for investors with complex 
investment needs, the ACCC’s investigations revealed that NAB is a strong 
competitor, through its Navigator platform. The ACCC’s investigation revealed 
that AXA is an emerging vigorous and effective competitor in this market, 
through its North platform.  
 
19. Importantly, in recent years there has been increasing consolidation in this 
market. On the basis of the information available, the ACCC considered that this 
market is highly concentrated and barriers to entry are high. New entrants are 
unlikely to be successful in achieving the level of scale and distribution necessary 
to provide an effective competitive constraint to existing key players. 
 
20. The ACCC formed the view that AXA is likely to provide vigorous and effective 
competition to the existing key players as a result of its implementation and 
development of a next generation full service wrap platform. The ACCC formed 
the view that AXA was ideally placed to inject such competition into the market. 
 
21. In forming this view, the ACCC had regard to the fact that the base technology 
for AXA’s next generation wrap platform is not proprietary and may be utilised 
by other players. However, it would take significant time and considerable sunk 
costs for others to replicate and integrate these developments with their existing 
platforms, while AXA has already implemented and integrated the platform 
technology.  
 


National Australia Bank Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited  
AMP Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited 
 
-iv- 
22. The ACCC considered that the competitive threat likely to be posed by AXA 
significantly exceeds the threat posed by other platform providers that may 
acquire this technology for the following reasons: 
 
 AXA has already implemented and integrated the platform technology. 
Implementation of significant platform developments requires considerable 
investment and can take a number of years to come to fruition.  
 
 AXA has an existing distribution capability, including established 
relationships with a significant number of financial planners to support the 
platform and a sufficient incentive and reputation to attract further fund 
inflows from non-aligned financial planners. 
 
 AXA has existing scale and consolidation plans for its much larger retail 
investment platforms to be upgraded to the superior platform technology. 
 
 AXA has a strong brand and reputation and in light of the combination of 
factors listed above is likely to continue to invest in and maintain its platforms. 
 
23. If NAB were to acquire AXA, given that NAB already has full service wrap 
platforms, it would not have the incentive to continue to sufficiently invest in and 
maintain the North platform and a significant source of competition would be 
lost. The ACCC concluded that the NAB proposed acquisition would impact upon 
vigorous and effective competition from AXA in the following ways: 
 
 removal of expected strong competitive tension between AXA’s next 
generation full service wrap platform and NAB’s Navigator platform; 
 
 reduced incentives for other competitors to invest in platform innovation;  
 
 reduced prospect of price competition. 
 
Proposed undertakings 
 
24. NAB and AXA proposed to address the ACCC’s competition concerns with the 
NAB proposed acquisition by offering to divest the North platform administration 
business carried out by AXA to IOOF (the proposed purchaser). 
 
25. The proposed undertakings also included the acquisition of platform 
administration services by the AXA product issuers of the North products on an 
exclusive basis for three years. NAB would also fund certain enhancements to the 
North platform, including enhancements already planned by AXA during 2010 
and enhancements that would allow the approved purchaser to support its own 
products on the North platform. 
 
26. The ACCC contacted a range of industry participants in consulting on the 
proposed undertakings. The majority of these participants raised concerns that the 
proposed undertakings, including the proposed purchaser would not provide an 
effective competitive constraint on a merged NAB-AXA or other existing key 
players. 


National Australia Bank Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited  
AMP Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited 
 
-v- 
 
27. On 9 September 2010, the ACCC decided to reject the proposed undertakings 
offered by NAB and AXA as they were not sufficient to remedy the ACCC’s 
competition concerns for the following reasons: 
 
 The proposed undertakings do not include the distribution network of 
financial planners or the North products (which provide scale by way of funds 
under management) that currently support the North platform. The exclusion 
of distribution assets and the North products in the proposed undertakings 
directly impacts the ongoing viability and competitiveness of the divestiture 
business.  
 
 The proposed undertakings are dependent on third parties. The heavy reliance 
placed upon third parties raised risks and uncertainty as to the effectiveness of 
the proposed undertakings. 
 
28. The ACCC considered that the combination of these factors raised considerable 
uncertainty as to whether a proposed purchaser operating the North platform 
administration business would be able to provide an effective competitive 
constraint to a combined NAB-AXA. 
 
29. The ACCC also noted that the proposed undertakings place a heavy reliance upon 
the proposed purchaser having sufficient distribution capability to provide an 
effective competitive constraint upon existing key players in the foreseeable 
future. The ACCC considered that there was uncertainty that the proposed 
purchaser has sufficient distribution capability to grow scale on the North 
platform administration business in a timely manner without the benefit of 
distribution assets or the North products. 
 
30. In addition, the ACCC considered that the proposed undertakings involved 
complex and long term behavioural obligations that presented risks and 
uncertainty. 
 
31. The ACCC concluded that the proposed undertakings would not remedy the 
ACCC’s competition concerns with the NAB proposed acquisition. Accordingly, 
the ACCC rejected the proposed undertakings. 
 
AMP proposed acquisition 
 
32. The ACCC formed the view that the AMP proposed acquisition would be 
unlikely to result in a substantial lessening of competition in any market. Unlike 
NAB, AMP did not have a significant presence in the market for supply of retail 
investment platforms for investors with complex investment needs as AMP only 
offers versions of platforms from other providers that are “badged” as AMP 
platforms. 
 
33. In contrast to the NAB proposed acquisition, the ACCC formed the view that a 
merged AMP-AXA would have incentives to retain the North platform and 
continue to invest in platform functionality with a view to introducing an 
innovative full service wrap platform and to expand its presence in the non-
aligned planner channel. 


National Australia Bank Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited  
AMP Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited 
 
1 
Public Competition Assessment 
Introduction 
 
1. 
On 19 April 2010, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission 
(ACCC) announced its decisions in relation to the proposed acquisitions of AXA 
Asia Pacific Holdings Limited’s Australian and New Zealand businesses (AXA) 
by two separate and competing bidders: National Australia Bank Ltd (NAB) and 
AMP Ltd (AMP) (together, the proposed acquisitions). The ACCC decided to 
oppose the proposed acquisition of AXA by NAB (NAB proposed acquisition), 
and not to oppose the proposed acquisition of AXA by AMP (AMP proposed 
acquisition). The ACCC formed the view that the NAB proposed acquisition 
would be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening, preventing or 
hindering competition in the national market for the supply of retail investment 
platforms for investors with complex investment needs in contravention of 
section 50 of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (the Act). 
 
2. 
The ACCC’s analysis of the competition effects of the proposed acquisitions is 
detailed from paragraph 93.  
 
3. 
NAB and AXA proposed a set of undertakings pursuant to section 87B of the Act 
(the proposed undertakings). The proposed undertakings provided for the 
divestiture of the North platform administration business currently operated by 
AXA to the proposed purchaser, IOOF Holdings Limited (IOOF) (the proposed 
purchaser). On 9 August, the ACCC commenced a process of market 
consultation on the proposed undertakings, including IOOF as the proposed 
purchaser of the divestiture business. 
 
4. 
On 9 September 2010, the ACCC announced its decision to reject the proposed 
undertakings offered by NAB and AXA on the basis that the proposed 
undertakings were not sufficient to remedy the ACCC’s competition concerns 
regarding the NAB proposed acquisition. The ACCC’s consideration of the 
proposed undertakings and the proposed purchaser of the divestiture business is 
detailed at paragraphs 166 to 177. 
5. 
The ACCC views explained in this Public Competition Assessment are based on 
the information provided by the merger parties and information obtained from the 
ACCC’s market inquiries. 
 
Public Competition Assessment 
 
6. 
To provide an enhanced level of transparency and procedural fairness in its 
decision making process, the ACCC issues a Public Competition Assessment for 
all transaction proposals where: 
 a merger is opposed; 
 a merger is subject to enforceable undertakings; 


National Australia Bank Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited  
AMP Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited 
 
-2- 
 the merger parties seek such disclosure; or 
 a merger is not opposed but raises important issues that the ACCC considers 
should be made public. 
 
7. 
This Public Competition Assessment has been issued because the NAB proposed 
acquisition was opposed by the ACCC and because undertakings pursuant to 
section 87B of the Act were considered. The proposed acquisitions are also 
considered to raise issues of interest to the public. 
 
8. 
By issuing a Public Competition Assessment, the ACCC aims to provide the 
public with a better understanding of the ACCC’s analysis of various markets and 
the associated merger and competition issues. It also alerts the public to 
circumstances where the ACCC’s assessment of the competition conditions in 
particular markets is changing, or likely to change.  
9. 
Each Public Competition Assessment is specific to the particular transaction 
under review by the ACCC. While some transaction proposals may involve the 
same or related markets, it should not be assumed that the analysis and decision 
outlined in one Public Competition Assessment will be conclusive of the ACCC’s 
view in respect of other transaction proposals, as each matter will be considered 
on its own merits.  
10. 
Public Competition Assessments outline the ACCC’s principal reasons for 
forming views on a proposed acquisition at the time the decision was made. As 
such Public Competition Assessments may not definitively identify and explain 
all issues that the ACCC considers arise from a proposed acquisition. Further, the 
ACCC’s decisions generally involve consideration of both non-confidential and 
confidential information provided by the merger parties and market participants. 
In order to maintain the confidentiality of particular information, Public 
Competition Assessments do not contain any confidential information or its 
sources. 
11. 
The ACCC timeline for review of the proposed acquisitions is provided in 
Appendix A to this Public Competition Assessment. 
The parties 
 
The proposed acquirers 
 
(i) 
National Australia Bank Ltd 
 
12. 
NAB is a publicly listed company that provides a full range of banking and 
financial products and services including retail, business and corporate banking 
products and services. NAB has a significant presence in the supply of personal 
and business banking products and services, including transaction accounts, 
deposit/term products, credit cards, home loans and personal loans, SME banking 
and agribusiness banking products.  
 


National Australia Bank Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited  
AMP Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited 
 
-3- 
13. 
NAB also provides wealth management products and services including 
superannuation, investments, retirement income, life insurance and financial 
planning and advice. NAB also owns and operates a number of retail investment 
platforms and supplies stockbroking products and services. 
 
14. 
NAB’s wealth management businesses include NAB Wealth, nabInvest, MLC 
and Aviva Australia, which provide private banking, asset management, 
superannuation, insurance and financial advisory services. NAB has also recently 
acquired the JBWere stockbroking business. 
 
15. 
NAB owns and operates retail investment platforms, including MLC MasterKey, 
MasterKey Custom, Plum and Navigator.  
 
16. 
NAB provides financial advisory and planning services through a network of 
aligned financial planners, including NAB Financial Planning, MLC Financial 
Planning, Garvan Financial Planning, Godfrey Pembroke and Apogee Financial 
Planning. NAB also has relationships with non-aligned financial planners. 
 
(ii) 
AMP Ltd 
 
17. 
AMP is a publicly listed wealth management company providing a range of 
products and services including superannuation, managed investments, retirement 
income, insurance, banking and financial planning and advice.   
 
18. 
AMP provides financial planning and advisory services through its network of 
aligned planners operating as AMP Financial Planning or Hillross. 
 
19. 
AMP owns and operates the Flexible Lifetime master trust platform. AMP does 
not currently own or operate its own wrap platform but uses a badged version of 
the “Asgard” wrap platform supplied by Westpac and a badged version of the 
wrap platform supplied by Macquarie.1  
 
20. 
AMP Capital Investors, a business unit of AMP, is a specialist investment 
manager which offers investment products across major asset classes including 
local and international shares, local and international fixed interest, property, 
infrastructure, diversified funds, multi-manager funds under the Future Directions 
Funds range, and alternative investments such as absolute return funds, structured 
products and private equity. 
 
The target – AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited 
 
21. 
AXA is a publicly listed company which provides wealth management products 
and services. It has operations in Hong Kong, China, Singapore, Indonesia, 
Philippines, Thailand, India, Malaysia, Australia and New Zealand. 
 
                                                 
1  The distinction between master trust platforms and wrap platforms is explained at paragraph 39 
below. 


National Australia Bank Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited  
AMP Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited 
 
-4- 
22. 
AXA provides a range of wealth management products and services including 
superannuation, insurance, managed investments, financial planning and advice. 
Products offered by AXA are mainly sold through brands including AXA, ipac, 
Generations, Summit and North. 
23. 
AXA provides direct asset management products and services through its joint 
venture interest in Alliance Bernstein Australia and New Zealand Limited.  
24. 
AXA owns and operates retail investment platforms including Summit, 
Generations, iAccess and North.  
 
25. 
AXA’s aligned financial planners operate through the AXA advisory network 
comprising AXA Financial Planning, Charter Financial Planning, Jigsaw Support 
services, Genesys Wealth Advisors, ipac Securities and Tynan Mackenzie. AXA 
also has relationships with non-aligned financial planners. 
 
The proposed acquisitions 
 
26. 
On 7 November 2009, AMP and AXA SA announced their proposed acquisition 
of AXA by way of a scheme of arrangement whereby AMP would acquire 
AXA’s Australian and New Zealand assets and businesses and AXA SA would 
acquire AXA’s Asian operations. 
27. 
On 9 November 2009, AXA rejected the proposal by AMP and AXA SA. 
28. 
On 14 December 2009, AMP and AXA SA announced a revised proposal for 
AXA. 
29. 
On 17 December 2009, NAB and AXA announced that NAB would acquire 100 
per cent of the shares in AXA, through a scheme of arrangement, whereby NAB 
would merge AXA’s Australian and New Zealand businesses with its own 
operations and divest AXA’s Asian business to AXA SA. 
30. 
On the same day, AXA announced that it had rejected AMP’s and AXA SA’s 
revised proposal. 
Industry background 
 
31. 
The ACCC has formed a view of the relevant markets set out below based on the 
information provided to it for the purposes of this assessment. 


National Australia Bank Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited  
AMP Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited 
 
-5- 
Wealth management 
 
32. 
Wealth management includes the provision of investment or other products and 
services, including financial planning, retail investment platforms, funds and 
asset management services, life insurance, superannuation and retirement income 
products. The wealth management supply chain is represented below.  
 
33. 
Retail investment platforms provide the central link in the chain between 
investment product providers, financial planners and retail investors. 
34. 
Investment product providers rely on retail investment platforms to distribute 
their products to retail investors. Retail investors rely on financial planners to 
access a range of wealth management products. In turn, financial planners rely 
heavily upon retail investment platforms for, among other things, administrative 
efficiency and to provide their clients with a menu of investment products and 
consolidated management and reporting of their portfolios.  
35. 
A retail investment platform is an administrative structure for investments and 
provides a central ‘hub’ account for a range of services, including ‘menus’ of 
products, capturing details of a client’s portfolio and consolidated reporting. 
While retail investment platforms can be simplistically described as a ‘hub’, they 
benefit from economies of scale as they require significant upfront and ongoing 
capital investment. Retail investment platforms also involve management of 
complex technology services and are subject to lengthy periods of development.  
36. 
Most retail investors access retail investment platforms through a financial 
planner.2 The ACCC understands that approximately 80 per cent of funds 
invested via financial planners are channelled through retail investment 
platforms. As an alternative to using a retail investment platform, investment 
product manufacturers may distribute their products directly. This is largely 
limited to wholesale investments by institutional investors. Direct distribution to 
retail investors is not common due to the complexity of wealth management 
products and the ability to access a more diverse range of investments in one 
location on retail investment platforms via financial planners. 
37. 
Financial planners therefore rely heavily upon retail investment platforms to 
provide services to retail investors. The ACCC’s inquiries indicated that for a 
large proportion of financial planners, it would not be viable to manage client 
investments without the use of a retail investment platform. This is largely due to 
the considerable benefits offered by platforms to financial planners in the form of 
administrative efficiency and functionality which reduce the time, cost and 
burden of investing in, managing and reporting on a client’s investment portfolio 
                                                 
2  Financial planners include reference to financial advisers. The ACCC notes that these terms can be 
used interchangeably. 


National Australia Bank Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited  
AMP Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited 
 
-6- 
(e.g. access to consolidated client information, tax reporting, transaction 
statements, portfolio management and online access to share trading). 
38. 
Some of the key elements of the success of a retail investment platform include 
the ability to offer a range of attractive investment products, access to a strong 
distribution network via financial planners, and the capacity to invest in the 
development and maintenance of technological functionality to meet the needs of 
investors and their financial planners. That is, to achieve sufficient funds under 
management (FUM) a retail investment platform provider requires the support of 
investment product providers, financial planners, an effective technological 
solution, and continued investment to maintain and develop the platform. 
39. 
There are two key types of retail investment platforms: a master trust and a wrap. 
An investor using a master trust platform holds units in a selection of managed 
funds. A trustee is the legal owner and holds the assets on the investor’s behalf. 
On the other hand, an investor using a wrap platform is the owner of the 
underlying non-superannuation investments.  
40. 
Wrap platforms consolidate various investments under one administrative 
umbrella, including direct investments such as shares and property. The 
investments in the wrap account are held beneficially by the investor. Wrap 
platforms can also allow investors to transfer investments without incurring 
capital gains tax (CGT) liabilities which may be incurred for investments held in 
a trust structure. Wrap platforms can also be differentiated by the greater number 
of investment options and functionality they provide. Full service wrap platforms 
offer access to a large number of investment options and a larger range of 
features and functionality. There are also lower cost mini (or baby) wrap 
platforms that have fewer investment options, limited features and functionality 
compared to full service wraps. 
41. 
The types of investment products supplied on platforms, depending on the type of 
platform, include managed funds, superannuation, life insurance, cash deposits, 
margin lending, direct equities and term deposit products.  
42. 
Providers of retail investment platforms may receive revenue from a number of 
sources, including: 
 administration fees – which are charged directly to the investor; 
 rebate payments – which are paid by the investment product provider; and 
 shelf space fees – which are paid by investment product providers. 
43. 
Administration fees and rebate payments are generally charged as a percentage of 
FUM, while shelf space fees are typically charged as a fixed amount per product. 
44. 
Financial planners provide financial advice to clients based on the needs of the 
client and on the products the financial planner is able to offer the client. 
Financial planners usually distribute a range of products, predominantly via retail 
investment platforms, including cash management accounts, managed investment 
funds, superannuation and life insurance products.  


National Australia Bank Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited  
AMP Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited 
 
-7- 
45. 
Financial planners are generally considered as either ‘aligned’ or ‘non-aligned’. 
‘Aligned’ planners operate as authorised representatives of a financial entity that 
holds an Australian Financial Services Licence (AFSL) and can be either salaried 
employees or self-employed. Financial entities with large aligned distribution 
networks are often vertically integrated and manufacture their own investment 
products and supply retail investment platforms. Financial planners can operate 
under their own identity or may operate as part of a financial planner group 
(commonly known as dealer groups). ‘Non-aligned’ financial planners are not 
affiliated with an upstream product provider and may operate under their own 
AFSL or under the licence of a dealer group.  
46. 
In order for investment products to be recommended by a financial planner, the 
products must first be on the Approved Product Lists (APLs) of the financial 
dealer group. Generally, financial dealer groups that are aligned with a product 
manufacturer tend to have an APL weighted towards the aligned manufacturer’s 
products. In comparison, the ACCC understands that non-aligned financial 
planners tend to provide APLs with a broader choice of products.  
47. 
Aligned financial planners are an important driver of competition between retail 
investment platforms, in particular, to attract sufficient scale onto platforms.  
48. 
Non-aligned financial planners are a critical driver of competition between retail 
investment platforms. This is because non-aligned financial planners have an 
increased ability to redirect new inflows between competing platforms in 
response to improvements in platform functionality and service, volume rebate 
payments, or a combination of other factors, as detailed below. 
49. 
Product manufacturers (such as fund managers, life insurance providers or 
superannuation providers) and retail investment platform providers may provide 
commissions to financial planners when a product is recommended. 
50. 
The ACCC notes the Australian Government’s announcement on 26 April 2010 
of reforms to the provision of financial advice in response to the Parliamentary 
Joint Committee on Corporations and Financial Services “Inquiry into financial 
products and services in Australia”.3 These reforms include a prospective ban on 
conflicted remuneration structures including commissions and volume-based 
payments, in relation to the distribution of and advice regarding retail investment 
products, including managed investments, superannuation and margin loans. This 
announcement was made after the ACCC made its decisions regarding the 
proposed acquisitions. The ACCC considers that the timing and final design of 
the proposed reforms is currently too speculative to enable an accurate 
assessment of their potential impact upon market dynamics. In any event, in 
reaching its view on the proposed acquisitions, the ACCC was aware of decisions 
by some industry participants to move towards more transparent fee structures 
and did not consider that the proposed reforms would change the basis of the 
competition analysis in these matters. 
                                                 
3  Treasury Media Release, The Hon Chris Bowen MP, ‘Overhaul of Financial Advice, 26 April 2010. 


National Australia Bank Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited  
AMP Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited 
 
-8- 
Industry participants 
51. 
Wealth management providers are often vertically integrated, participating at 
multiple levels of the supply chain. Vertically integrated providers: 
 ‘manufacture’ the investment product (e.g. a managed fund, life insurance or 
superannuation product); 
 provide retail investment platforms; and 
 have a network of affiliated financial planners distributing their products.  
52. 
Vertically integrated wealth management providers include AMP, AXA and the 
major banks: NAB, Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA); Westpac Banking 
Corporation (Westpac) and Australia and New Zealand Banking Group (ANZ).  
53. 
Non-vertically integrated wealth management providers operate in one or two 
levels of the wealth management supply chain. The ACCC understands that these 
market participants may not have their own distribution capabilities and may rely 
on unrelated intermediaries (financial planners and dealer groups) to distribute 
their respective products to investors. 
Market inquiries on the proposed acquisitions 
 
54. 
The ACCC conducted market inquiries on the proposed acquisitions with a range 
of industry participants, including competitors, potential competitors, financial 
planners, financial planning dealer groups, suppliers of investment products, 
suppliers of superannuation and retirement income products, suppliers of life 
insurance products, industry bodies, regulatory agencies and other interested 
parties. Submissions were sought in relation to the proposed acquisitions. 
Statement of Issues 
 
55. 
On 10 February 2010, the ACCC published its Statement of Issues regarding the 
proposed acquisitions. 
 
56. 
The Statement of Issues set out the ACCC’s preliminary view that NAB’s 
proposed acquisition of AXA would raise a higher level of concern than AMP’s 
proposed acquisition of AXA, including because the NAB proposed acquisition 
would result in an increased level of concentration in respect of the wrap 
platforms. This was based on NAB being an existing provider of wrap platforms, 
unlike AMP which supplies badged versions of wrap platforms (i.e. AMP is not 
the platform administrator). 
 
57. 
The Statement of Issues is available on the ACCC’s website at 
www.accc.gov.au/statementsofissues. 
 


National Australia Bank Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited  
AMP Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited 
 
-9- 
With/without test 
 
58. 
In assessing a merger pursuant to section 50 of the Act, to determine whether the 
acquisition was likely to substantially lessen competition in any relevant market, 
the ACCC considered the effects of the proposed acquisition by comparing the 
likely future competitive environment if the transaction proceeds (the “with” 
position) to the likely future competitive environment if the acquisition does not 
proceed (the “without” or “counterfactual” position). 
 
NAB proposed acquisition 
 
59. 
The ACCC considered the likely counterfactual for the NAB proposed 
acquisition was either: (i) AMP as the likely successful bidder for AXA; or (ii) 
AXA continues to operate as a stand-alone entity. 
 
AMP proposed acquisition 
 
60. 
The ACCC considered the likely counterfactual for the AMP proposed 
acquisition was either: (i) NAB as the likely successful bidder for AXA; or (ii) 
AXA continues to operate as a stand-alone entity. 
 
Areas of overlap and market definition 
 
61. 
The ACCC formed the view that there was prima facie competitive overlap 
between the merger parties’ businesses in the areas of financial planning services, 
superannuation and retirement income, life insurance, retail investment platforms, 
and manufacture of investment products.  
 
62. 
On the basis of the information provided to the ACCC prior to the decision, a 
number of markets were identified for the purposes of assessing the impact of the 
proposed acquisitions in the areas of (i) wealth management and (ii) banking. The 
ACCC’s views on market definition in each of these areas are provided below. 
 
(i) Wealth management – relevant markets 
 
63. On the basis of the information available, the proposed acquisitions were assessed 
in the context of separate but related national markets for the supply of: 
 retail investment platforms for investors with simple investment needs; 
 retail investment platforms for investors with complex investment needs; 
 investment products available on retail investment platforms; 
 financial planning and advisory services; 
 superannuation and retirement income products; and 
 life insurance. 
 


National Australia Bank Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited  
AMP Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited 
 
-10- 
Retail investment platforms 
 
64. 
As discussed above, retail investment platforms provide the central link in the 
chain between investment product providers, financial planners and retail 
investors. Retail investment platforms provide a range of investment products and 
services to financial planners, both aligned and non-aligned, and enable those 
financial planners, through the use of platforms, to attract investment funds. 
65. 
Retail investment platforms offer considerable benefits to financial planners in 
the form of, among other things, administrative efficiency and functionality 
which reduces the time, cost and burden of placing, managing and reporting on a 
client’s investment portfolio (e.g. access to consolidated client information, tax 
reporting, transaction statements, portfolio management and online access to 
share trading). 
66. 
Of those investors who use a financial planner, the ACCC understands that 
approximately 80 per cent of funds invested via financial planners are channelled 
through retail investment platforms. 
Product dimension 
 
Substitutability based on platform type 
 
67. 
The ACCC’s inquiries indicated that investors with simple investment needs 
typically have relatively smaller amounts of superannuation and non-
superannuation money to invest than investors with complex investment needs 
and do not require access to a large number and range of investment options. 
Financial planners that service investors with simple investment needs will 
typically direct these clients’ funds towards master trust platforms and mini-wrap 
platforms.  
 
68. 
Investors with complex investment needs typically have relatively larger amounts 
of superannuation and non-superannuation money to invest and value access to a 
broad range of investment options (e.g. a wider selection of growth investment 
products with greater associated risk and return). In particular, sophisticated 
investors will often have more complex investment requirements, such as the 
desire to invest in direct equities. Financial planners that service investors with 
complex investment needs will typically direct these clients’ funds towards full-
service wrap platforms. 
 
69. 
The ACCC inquiries indicated that it is likely that there is asymmetric demand-
side substitution between those platforms typically used to service investors with 
complex investment needs, such as full service wraps, and those platforms 
typically used to service investors with simple investment needs, such as master 
trusts and mini-wraps. That is, full service wrap platforms may be an alternative 
investment option for investors with simple investment needs but financial 
planners were unlikely to view master trusts and mini-wraps as an alternative 
investment option for investors with complex investment needs. Reasons 
provided to the ACCC for this include: 
 


National Australia Bank Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited  
AMP Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited 
 
-11- 
 full service wraps typically offer substantially more investment options 
(approximately 200+) than master trusts and mini-wraps (approximately 40 to 
120), and a wider selection of investments (e.g. the ability to invest in direct 
equities); and 
 
 full service wraps are generally targeted at investors with higher account 
balances (typically greater than $100,000) while master trusts and mini-wraps 
are generally targeted at investors with lower account balances (approximately 
$50,000) — this occurs by platform providers offering differential tiered 
pricing structures as discussed below. 
 
70. 
In addition, the underlying legal structure of a wrap, which provides a custodial 
service allowing investors to directly own non-superannuation investments, has 
advantages compared with master trusts, where a trustee holds investments on 
behalf of the investor. The ACCC understands that these advantages include: 
 
 wraps have more complex reporting capabilities than master trusts, e.g. 
individual tax accounting/management; 
 
 wraps offer greater flexibility enabling less costly movement of funds between 
investment options; and 
 
 wraps may allow investors to avoid triggering CGT liabilities which may arise 
as a consequence of moving investments held in a trust structure. 


National Australia Bank Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited  
AMP Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited 
 
-12- 
71. 
The ACCC’s inquiries indicate that non-platform options are not close substitutes 
for the use of platforms. Platforms provide a range of benefits that are not readily 
available to financial planners via other non-platform investment options. Other 
investment options such as separately managed accounts (SMAs), exchange 
traded funds (ETFs) and direct investment (including direct data feeds, direct 
distribution of investment products and direct investment into managed funds) do 
not appear to be close substitutes for the use of platforms for the following 
reasons:  
 
 SMAs: An SMA is similar to a managed fund where the financial planner (or 
more typically a stock broker) invests in a portfolio of shares on behalf of the 
investor but the investor remains the beneficial owner. The constraint imposed 
by SMAs on platforms is likely to be limited as: (i) most SMAs only allow for 
discretionary investments (i.e. non-superannuation money); (ii) SMAs 
typically offer a limited number of investment options compared with 
platforms; (iii) SMAs are increasingly being offered as investment options on 
major retail investment platforms (i.e. SMAs are converging with and 
enhancing retail investment platforms rather than replacing them).4 
 
 ETFs: ETFs are diversified portfolios of securities that are indexed and can be 
traded on the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX). ETFs could be 
considered a substitute for certain managed fund investment options that sit on 
retail investment platforms. However, from the perspective of a financial 
planner, ETFs are unlikely to provide a close substitute for the use of 
platforms. While the ASX does aid in the movement of assets between 
investment types, it does not provide the software and consolidated reporting 
(e.g., tax reporting) that a platform provides.  
 
 Direct investment: Direct data feeds (i.e. where the fund manager provides 
client information direct to the financial planner’s desktop software), direct 
distribution of investment products and direct investment into managed funds 
are unlikely to provide a close substitute for the use of platforms. While these 
types of direct investment may present an alternative to platforms for some 
boutique financial planners, for the majority of financial planners, direct 
investments to fund managers are not a viable substitute for the use of 
platforms due to the inefficiencies and costs associated with dealing separately 
with various fund managers on behalf of a large number of clients. 
 
72. 
The ACCC’s inquiries indicated that superannuation and retirement income 
products are not close substitutes for the use of retail investment platforms. This 
is because products which only attract superannuation funds are unlikely to offer 
a close substitute to platforms which provide investment solutions for both 
superannuation and non-superannuation funds.  
                                                 
4  
During the ACCC’s consideration of the proposed acquisition of St George by Westpac in 2008, 
market participants had suggested that the threat of expansion by SMA providers was likely to put 
further competitive pressure on retail investment platform providers. The ACCC’s inquiries in the 
present matters, however, indicated that SMAs have experienced low growth levels in Australia such 
that these investment products do not appear to offer strong competitive constraints to retail 
investment platforms. Furthermore, market inquiries in the present matters indicated that SMAs are 
converging with and enhancing, rather than replacing, retail investment platforms. 


National Australia Bank Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited  
AMP Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited 
 
-13- 
 
73. 
In particular, for investors that seek the advice of a financial planner for their 
superannuation and/or non-superannuation funds, there are disincentives for 
financial planners to recommend splitting a client’s investments across platform 
and non-platform investment options for superannuation savings (e.g. industry 
superannuation funds, self managed super funds).  
 
74. 
In the case of many platforms, the more funds an investor holds in aggregate on 
the platform, the lower the administration fee. Platforms offer significant 
efficiencies to financial planners, while splitting of investments between separate 
investment vehicles will create extra reporting and administrative demands on the 
financial planner. 
 
75. 
The ACCC considered that non-platform investment options for superannuation 
and non-superannuation investments are unlikely to be a close demand-side 
substitute for the use of retail investment platforms. 
 
76. 
Therefore, on the basis of the information available, the ACCC formed the view 
that there is a separate market for superannuation and retirement income products 
(as discussed further below). 
 
Substitutability based on investor type 
 
77. 
Prior to the Statement of Issues, the ACCC focussed on the underlying legal 
structure of the platform (wraps and master trusts) as a basis for delineating 
relevant markets. However, the ACCC’s inquiries following the Statement of 
Issues revealed that the terminology of “master trusts” and “wraps” was not 
consistently applied across the industry. Therefore, the ACCC considered that it 
was more appropriate to adopt an approach to market definition for the use of 
retail investment platforms based on investor types. 
 
78. 
Information provided to the ACCC following the Statement of Issues indicated 
that platform providers and financial planners distinguish between investors 
depending on the complexity of the investor’s investment needs. Platform 
providers have the ability to discriminate between investor types by offering 
differential tiered administration fees which offer more attractive pricing for 
particular platforms depending on the investor’s account balance. 
 
79. 
The ACCC’s inquiries indicated that financial planners direct an investor to a 
particular retail investment platform based on a range of criteria, including: 
 
 the investor’s appetite for risk; 
 
 whether the investor is an active or passive investor; 
 
 the desire of the investor to invest in direct equities; 
 
 the investor’s taxation position; and 
 


National Australia Bank Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited  
AMP Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited 
 
-14- 
 the administration fees which will be borne by the investor, depending on the 
amount the investor wishes to invest. 
 
80. 
As discussed above, the ACCC’s inquiries revealed that there is asymmetric 
demand-side substitution between those platforms typically used to service 
investors with complex investment needs and those platforms typically used to 
service investors with simple investment needs.  
 
81. 
Based on further inquiries and the information obtained, the ACCC concluded 
that the relevant markets as regards retail investment platforms were: 
 
(i) the national supply of retail investment platforms for investors with 
complex investment needs; and 
 
(ii) the national supply of retail investment platforms for investors with simple 
investment needs.  
 
Supply-side substitutability   
 
82. 
The ACCC’s inquiries indicated that there is only limited substitutability on the 
supply-side between platforms which service investors with simple investment 
needs and platforms which service investors with complex investment needs. 
Providers of master trusts are unable to quickly adapt to the functionality and 
legal structure of a wrap platform, which would require significant investment in 
IT infrastructure and platform technology. The ACCC’s inquiries indicated that 
wraps with limited functionality would similarly require significant investment to 
compete with full-service wrap platforms. 
 
Geographic dimension 
 
83. 
The ACCC considered that the relevant geographic dimensions for the separate 
markets for the supply of retail investment platforms to investors with simple and 
complex needs were national, due to the ability for retail investment platforms to 
service financial planners located across Australia. 
 
Supply of investment products available on retail investment platforms 
 
84. 
On the basis of the information available, the ACCC formed the view that there is 
a national market for investment products available on retail investment 
platforms. As outlined above, the ACCC inquiries indicated that financial 
planners generally do not regard other forms of non-platform investment products 
as sufficiently close substitutes to retail investment platforms. 
 


National Australia Bank Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited  
AMP Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited 
 
-15- 
Financial planning and advisory services 
 
85. 
The ACCC formed the view that there is a separate market for the supply of 
financial planning and advisory services. On the demand-side, while certain 
investment products may also be distributed directly, due to the inherent 
complexities of these products, direct distribution of products is unlikely to pose 
a competitive constraint for the vast majority of investors who turn to financial 
planners for advice. On the supply-side, financial planning and advisory 
businesses are unable to easily expand in a timely manner or without significant 
investment to enter upstream sectors of the wealth management value chain (e.g. 
manufacture of investment products or retail investment platform services). The 
ACCC’s inquiries indicated that establishing an aligned distribution network of 
financial planners involves considerable investment and that it can take a 
significant amount of time to develop a client base and reputation. Therefore, the 
ACCC formed the view that financial planning and advisory services constituted 
a separate market. 
 
86. 
The ACCC did not form a definitive view as to the geographic dimension of 
financial planning and advisory services. The ACCC considered the relevant 
geographic dimension is, at its narrowest, state based or local markets, and at its 
broadest, a national market for financial planning and advisory services. 
 
Superannuation and retirement income products 
 
87. 
On the basis of the information available, the ACCC formed the view that there is 
a national market for the supply of superannuation and retirement income 
products, which includes retail superannuation funds, industry superannuation 
funds, self managed superannuation funds (SMSFs) and corporate 
superannuation funds. Market inquiries revealed that retirement income products 
and superannuation products are generally based around similar frameworks (i.e. 
similar investment options, prices and administrative services). The ACCC’s 
inquiries indicated that providers could switch between the supply of 
superannuation and retirement income products without significant investment 
being required. On the basis of supply-side substitutability, the ACCC considered 
it appropriate to include retirement income products and superannuation products 
in the same market. 
 
88. 
Superannuation and retirement income products are also commonly available on 
retail investment platforms. The ACCC’s inquiries indicated that financial 
planners and investors using a retail investment platform do not regard other 
forms of non-platform investment products as sufficiently close substitutes. The 
ACCC considered that the extent to which superannuation funds are substitutable 
to retail investment platforms is limited because superannuation funds are more 
limited in the range of investment options provided and do not provide a vehicle 
for ordinary/non-superannuation investments. 
 


National Australia Bank Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited  
AMP Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited 
 
-16- 
Life insurance 
 
89. 
On the basis of the information available, the ACCC formed the view that there is 
a national market for the supply of life insurance products, including individual 
and group risk products. Market inquiries revealed that life insurance companies 
generally offer a suite of life insurance products and life insurance companies 
could supply other categories of life insurance without significant investment 
being required. On the basis of supply-side substitutability, the ACCC considered 
it appropriate to include individual and group risk products in the same market. 
 
(ii) Banking – relevant markets 
 
90. The ACCC also considered the proposed acquisitions in the context of the 
potential impact upon competition in the banking sector, having regard to a 
number of markets which relate to (i) retail (personal and business) banking; and 
(ii) corporate and institutional banking. 
  
Retail (personal and business) banking 
 
91. The market definitions adopted by the ACCC for the purposes of assessing the 
proposed acquisitions in banking markets are summarised in the table below. 
 
Table 1 
Retail banking markets 
Product dimension 
Geographic dimension 
Personal banking markets 
Transaction accounts 
Local but price competition is national 
Deposit/term products 
National 
Credit cards 
National 
Home loans 
National 
Personal loans 
National 
Hybrid personal loans (margin loans) 
National 
Business banking markets 
Small to medium enterprise banking 
Local but price competition is national 
Equipment finance 
National 
Agribusiness banking 
Local but price competition is national 
 
Corporate and institutional banking 
 
92. In addition to the various banking markets in the table above, there is a market or 
markets for the range of corporate and institutional banking products offered to 
corporate banking customers, including transaction services, commercial credit 
cards, loans and capital raisings, service and advice in areas including liquidity 
requirements, funding, interest rate management, capital transactions, debt/equity 
underwriting, foreign exchange markets and trade finance. The ACCC did not 
form a definitive view as to whether these activities should be treated as separate 
markets, or part of a broader corporate and institutional banking market. 
 


National Australia Bank Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited  
AMP Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited 
 
-17- 
Competition analysis 
 
(i) 
Impact of the proposed acquisitions in the supply of retail 
investment platforms 
 
Theory of competitive harm 
 
93. 
The ACCC formed the view that the NAB proposed acquisition would be likely 
to result in a substantial lessening, prevention or hindrance of competition in the 
market for the supply of retail investment platforms for investors with complex 
needs. In respect of the AMP proposed acquisition, the ACCC concluded that the 
acquisition would be unlikely to result in a contravention of s 50 of the Act. 
 
94. 
On the basis of the information available, the ACCC considered that this market 
is highly concentrated, with three large platform providers (Westpac, NAB and 
Macquarie) and barriers to entry are high. New entrants are considered unlikely 
to be successful in achieving the level of scale and distribution necessary to 
provide an effective competitive constraint to existing key players. Platform 
providers must have the reputation in the industry, sufficient scale to justify the 
substantial initial and on-going investment and access to a sufficiently large 
network of financial planners to be an effective entrant. 
95. 
The ACCC’s inquiries revealed that price competition is weak between major 
platform providers and that there are disincentives to compete on platform 
administration fees. The ACCC formed the view that the key basis of rivalry and 
differentiation between platform providers manifests itself in the form of 
innovation competition, i.e. the platform provider’s ability and incentive to 
continue to invest in platform functionality and service. 
96. 
The ACCC formed the view that AXA is likely to provide vigorous and effective 
competition to the major incumbent providers as a result of its implementation 
and development of a next generation full service wrap platform. In forming this 
view, the ACCC had regard to the fact that AXA’s implementation and 
integration of superior base technology for its next generation wrap platform is 
well underway and, while the technology is not proprietary and may be utilised 
by other players, it would take significant time and considerable sunk costs for 
others to replicate and integrate these developments with their existing platforms. 
The ACCC considered that AXA’s next generation wrap platform is also likely to 
be versatile in responding to competing platform developments and will continue 
to offer strong competition to existing key players and drive competition in 
innovation by other participants, including NAB. 
97. 
The ACCC concluded that the removal of AXA as a likely vigorous and effective 
competitor with significant distribution, scale and reputation capable of 
generating a competitive response from leading platform providers would 
diminish the incentives of large scale platform providers to continue to invest in 
platform innovations. As noted, platform innovation in terms of functionality and 
quality of service is, and is likely to continue to be, a key driver of competition in 
the market.  


National Australia Bank Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited  
AMP Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited 
 
-18- 
98. 
As a result of the factors outlined above, the NAB proposed acquisition would be 
likely to substantially lessen, prevent or hinder competition in the market for the 
supply of retail investment platforms for investors with complex needs in 
contravention of section 50 of the Act. 
 
99. 
The following sections outline the ACCC’s analysis in more detail. 
 
Basis of competition between retail investment platforms 
 
100. The ACCC’s investigation of the proposed acquisitions indicated that demand for 
the use of retail investment platforms is primarily driven by financial planners. 
That is, suppliers of retail investment platforms market to financial planners and 
their respective dealer groups to attract fund inflows to their respective platforms.  
 
101. The ability of financial planners to use a particular retail investment platform is 
typically controlled by their dealer group. Financial planners that are aligned with 
a financial institution are likely to use the in-house platform/s supplied by that 
financial institution. Non-aligned planners tend to have broader choice of which 
platform they use and have more discretion in directing client investments to a 
particular platform.  
 
102. An important focus of competition between platform providers is competition to 
attract new fund inflows from financial planners. Financial planners may more 
readily direct new investment flows to alternative retail platforms that compete 
with existing platforms, provided the financial planner is permitted to use an 
alternative platform. While some competition exists to attract existing funds, the 
ACCC considered that there is ‘stickiness’ associated with switching existing 
investments between platforms. The ACCC’s inquiries indicated that it is a 
significant decision for a financial planner to switch a client’s existing funds to an 
alternative platform and that there would be a limit to the number of times a 
financial planner could credibly recommend to a client to switch platforms as 
regards to existing funds.  
 
103. Based upon market inquiries, the ACCC formed the view that platform 
functionality (including service) is a key driver of competition in attracting new 
fund inflows, particularly with respect to the non-aligned financial planner 
channel. Other drivers of competition include the breadth and quality of 
investment options available on the platform, platform administration fees and 
volume rebates (paid to financial planners or their associated dealer group). 
 
Platform functionality 
 
104. The ACCC’s inquiries indicated that platform functionality is a key determinant 
for a financial planner (or associated dealer group) in choosing a platform. 
Platform functionality refers to platform capability and quality of service 
including features of the platform such as its ease of use, timeliness of reporting, 
online applications and transactions, direct linking and processing and the extent 
to which the platform integrates with the financial planner’s desktop software. 
 


National Australia Bank Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited  
AMP Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited 
 
-19- 
Breadth and quality of investment options available 
 
105. The ACCC’s inquiries indicated that the breadth and quality of investment 
options available on a platform can be an important determinant for a financial 
planner in directing client funds to a platform. Investment product providers 
compete to have investment products placed on the menus of retail investment 
platforms.  
 
106. Retail investment platform providers seek to develop a menu of investment 
options that meet the needs of a diverse range of customer requirements. The 
importance of this factor in driving choice of retail investment platform will 
largely depend on the sophistication and demands of the client base of a financial 
planner (or their associated dealer group). However, it appears clear that investors 
with complex needs expect a broader range of investment options than investors 
with simple needs. 
 
Volume rebates 
 
107. The ACCC’s inquiries indicated that another important driver of competition is 
the level of commission (or volume rebates) paid by platform providers to a 
financial planner or associated dealer group, particularly when competing for 
non-aligned financial planners. The ACCC formed the view that volume rebates 
are a relevant consideration for the purposes of assessing competition between 
retail investment platforms, notwithstanding the trend by some providers in the 
industry to remove volume rebates.5 
 
Platform administration fees 
 
108. The ACCC’s inquiries indicated that platform administration fees are a secondary 
consideration amongst financial planners in terms of driving choice of retail 
investment platform. This is because platform administration fees are borne by 
end investors who are likely to be relatively insensitive to small but significant 
and non-transitory price increases. The platform administration fee is only one 
component of the overall headline fee that an investor is charged. 
 
                                                 
5  On 26 April 2010, following the ACCC’s decisions in relation to the proposed acquisitions, the 
Government announced reforms to financial advice, including a prospective ban on conflicted 
remuneration structures including commissions and volume based payments. 
 


National Australia Bank Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited  
AMP Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited 
 
-20- 
Market concentration  
109. The ACCC had regard to Plan for Life data in analysing market concentration.6  
In analysing market concentration that would likely arise as a result of the 
proposed acquisitions in the relevant retail investment platform markets, the 
ACCC had regard to both FUM and annual inflows, which provide a ‘stock’ and 
‘flow’ perspective of market concentration. 
  
110. The ACCC considered two methodologies for measuring market concentration, 
being either the ‘administrator’ or the ‘marketer’ view of FUM and inflows 
associated with a platform provider.7  The ACCC formed the view that market 
concentration resulting from the proposed acquisitions is more appropriately 
assessed using the administrator view, because the underlying owner of a badged 
platform has significant control and influence over platform functionality 
(including innovation and quality of service) and platform administration pricing. 
 
111. In the market for the supply of retail investment platforms for investors with 
complex investment needs the ACCC formed the view that:  
 
 a merged NAB-AXA would hold FUM in the range of 29 to 37 percent and 
annual inflows (up to September 2009) in the range of 17 to 21 per cent; 
 
 a merged AMP-AXA, or AXA as a stand-alone entity, would hold FUM in the 
range of 7 to 8 per cent and annual inflows (up to September 2009) in the 
range of 5 to 6 per cent. 
 
112. The proposed acquisition of AXA by NAB would result in increased horizontal 
aggregation in this market. Applying the Herfindahl-Hirschman Index8 measure 
of post-merger levels of concentration, a merged NAB-AXA exceeds the 
thresholds which provide an indicator as to potential horizontal competition 
concerns. 
                                                 
6  Plan for Life Pty Ltd collects data from life insurance, managed funds, superannuation and other 
financial markets to produce reports which detail shares held by market participants in the wealth 
management industry. The ACCC analysed Plan for Life data as at September 2009. The ACCC’s 
categorisation of retail investment platform products listed by Plan for Life was not definitive, but 
rather used as a proxy to measure the level and approximate range of market concentration that would 
occur as a result of the proposed acquisitions. 
7  The administrator view attributes market share to the company which administers the underlying 
platform and includes the funds and flows for each platform provider received both from its own 
marketed platforms as well as those of its badged platforms. The marketer view attributes market 
share to the marketer of the badged platform even though the funds and flows are ultimately held on 
the platform of another institution. 
8  The Herfindahl-Hirschman Index (HHI) is a measure of market concentration that results from a 
merger or acquisition. The HHI indicates the level of market concentration while the change in the 
HHI (delta) reflects the change in market concentration as a result of the merger. The ACCC will 
generally be less likely to identify horizontal competition concerns when the post-merger HHI is less 
than 2000 or greater than 2000 with a delta less than 100. However, the HHI is only one factor among 
many that the ACCC takes into account in its competition assessments and the HHI levels should not 
be taken as a presumption as to whether or not a merger will be likely to result in a substantial 
lessening of competition. 


National Australia Bank Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited  
AMP Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited 
 
-21- 
113. AMP only offers badged versions of the Macquarie and Asgard wrap platforms. 
Accordingly, from an administrator view, the AMP proposed acquisition would 
not result in increased horizontal aggregation in the market for the supply of retail 
investment platforms for investors with complex investment needs. The ACCC’s 
inquiries confirmed that the retail investment platform owned by AMP, Flexible 
Lifetime, is targeted at investors with simple investment needs. 
Removal of a vigorous and effective competitor 
114. The ACCC formed the view that in the foreseeable future, AXA is likely to 
provide vigorous and effective competition to the major incumbent providers in 
the supply of retail investment platforms for investors with complex investment 
needs. This is despite AXA’s smaller presence in this market at the current time. 
115. As noted previously, a key dynamic of competition between suppliers of retail 
investment platforms is the development and implementation of improved 
platform functionality. Improved functionality is an essential point of difference 
between platform providers’ offerings and a means of attracting and retaining 
fund inflows. 
Significant future competitive impact of AXA 
116. On the basis of the information available, the ACCC formed the view that AXA 
is close to delivering an innovative next generation full service wrap platform, the 
North platform. The North platform is supported by leading platform technology 
which enables AXA to improve its platform offering in a number of ways. The 
North platform also provides a low cost operating model which will be more cost 
efficient for AXA to maintain and develop, allowing AXA to be increasingly 
versatile in responding to future competing platform offerings. 
117. Based on the information before it, the ACCC considered that improved platform 
functionality benefits financial planners by providing, among other things: 
 more efficient transaction and reporting capabilities, which in turn benefits 
investors, particularly if a fee for service arrangement is in place, by reducing 
the time spent by financial planners on processing individual client 
transactions and reporting; 
 increased choice of investment options available to investors, in particular, 
direct equities capability; and 
 straight-through processing capability and online processing of investor 
accounts which offers significant operating cost savings to the platform 
provider and efficiency benefits for financial planners due to fully automated 
electronic processing of transactions and streamlined online administration.  


National Australia Bank Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited  
AMP Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited 
 
-22- 
118. The ACCC noted that in 2009, Investment Trends awarded AXA’s North 
platform the ‘Best New Functionality’ Platform award and Brand Management’s 
Adviser Satisfaction survey ranked AXA’s North platform 4th out of 19 
platforms, despite AXA being only part way through implementing the planned 
enhancements to the North platform’s functionality and capabilities.9  
119. The ACCC considered that other major platform providers will likely react to 
AXA’s investment in innovation to develop a next generation full service wrap 
platform. 
120. The ACCC understands that the technology underlying the North platform is not 
proprietary. However, on the basis of the information available, the ACCC is of 
the view that the competitive threat likely to be posed by AXA with its next 
generation full service wrap platform far exceeds the threat posed by other 
platform providers that may acquire the underlying technology supporting the 
North platform today. The key reasons for this view were as follows: 
 AXA has already implemented and integrated the platform technology. 
AXA is far ahead of any other platform provider in the implementation and 
integration of this technology base. The ACCC noted that the implementation 
of significant platform developments can take a number of years to come to 
fruition. AXA commenced a process to implement the North platform in 2007. 
Moreover, AXA has incurred considerable costs in integrating the technology 
with its existing systems.  
 AXA’s existing scale and consolidation plans. Following completion of the 
developments currently underway on the North platform and the emergence of 
the North platform as a full service wrap platform, AXA has plans to retire its 
legacy technology supporting its existing, and much larger, Summit, 
Generations and iAccess platforms and upgrade these products to the superior 
North platform technology. AXA’s existing scale of FUM and plans to 
consolidate its products onto a new technology base offering increased 
functionality and quality of service is likely to provide aggressive competition 
to leading retail investment platform providers. AXA will also have an 
increased ability and incentive to continue to invest and maintain the North 
platform, including in response to competing platform developments. 
 AXA’s existing distribution capability.  Importantly, AXA has established 
relationships with a significant number of aligned and non-aligned financial 
planners. AXA has an aligned distribution network of approximately 1,600 
financial planners (~10 per cent share of financial planners). Following the 
launch of the North products on the North platform, AXA has increased its 
usage amongst non-aligned planners. AXA’s distribution capability is likely to 
substantially increase the competitive threat posed by the North platform.  
                                                 
9  Investment Trends and Brand Management are market research organisations specialising in the 
Australian financial services industry. 


National Australia Bank Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited  
AMP Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited 
 
-23- 
 AXA’s brand, reputation and continued investment in platform 
innovation. While non-aligned financial planners may be attracted to the 
North platform, changing platforms is not without reputational risks and 
significant cost. In directing fund inflows to a new platform, financial planners 
must have confidence that the platform provider will continue to provide the 
required service standards and has the ability and incentive to continue to 
invest sufficiently in the platform on an ongoing basis. The ACCC considered 
that AXA has a strong brand and reputation and in light of the combination of 
factors listed above is likely to continue to invest in and maintain its platforms. 
121. In determining the likely future competitive impact that AXA would have upon 
other leading platform providers, the ACCC considered the combination of 
factors outlined above. The ACCC formed the view that AXA’s platform strategy 
by investing in platform innovation, in conjunction with its force of distribution, 
scale and reputation, is likely to generate a competitive response. 
122. The ACCC formed the view that the NAB proposed acquisition would impact the 
likely vigorous and effective competition from AXA in the following ways: 
 Removal of expected strong competitive tension between AXA’s next 
generation full service wrap platform and NAB’s Navigator platform.  
NAB acquired, as part of its acquisition of Aviva in September 2009, the 
Navigator platform, which was recently described as the “No 1 full function” 
platform and named Australia’s best platform by Investment Trends. The 
ACCC considered that AXA’s next generation full service wrap platform is 
likely to compete closely with NAB’s Navigator platform. The NAB proposed 
acquisition would not only diminish the incentive for NAB to continue to 
develop the North platform, but also reduce its incentive to continue to 
enhance its existing platforms.  
 Reduced incentives for other competitors to invest in platform innovation. 
The removal of AXA as a likely vigorous and effective competitor with 
significant distribution, scale and reputation capable of generating a 
competitive response from leading platform providers, would diminish the 
incentives for large scale platform providers to continue to invest in platform 
innovations. This is because large scale platform providers already have the 
scale of FUM to remain profitable and already have an established presence in 
the non-aligned financial planner channel and established reputation in the 
industry. The ACCC considered that AXA has greater incentives than other 
major incumbent platform providers to attract scale due to its relatively 
smaller position. The ACCC does not consider that sub-scale players are likely 
to be in a position to replace the competition lost through the removal of AXA 
as a likely vigorous and effective competitor in the foreseeable future. 


National Australia Bank Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited  
AMP Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited 
 
-24- 
 Reduced prospect of price competition. The incentives for larger retail 
investment platform providers to compete by reducing administration fees are 
weak. The ACCC considered that platform providers are limited in their 
ability to price discriminate on the basis of lower administration fees on new 
products. This is because such price discrimination would create arbitrage 
opportunities and encourage financial planners to follow the new product 
offered on that platform and switch client investments from the back-book to 
the front-book. The ACCC considered the significant scale of FUM that would 
accrue to a merged NAB-AXA would be likely to diminish further its 
incentive to compete on administration fees.  
123. The ACCC formed the view that a merged NAB-AXA would have incentives to 
further consolidate its platforms to reduce operating costs. In contrast to the NAB 
proposed acquisition, the ACCC formed the view that a merged AMP-AXA 
would have incentives to retain the North platform and continue to invest in 
platform functionality with a view to introducing an innovative full service wrap 
platform and to expand its presence in the non-aligned planner channel.  
124. Further, in contrast to the NAB proposed acquisition, a merged AMP-AXA 
would not increase its scale of FUM to the same degree. The ACCC recognised 
that a merged AMP-AXA would be likely to migrate FUM held on its badged 
platforms, but even taking into account FUM held on AMP’s badged platforms, a 
merged AMP-AXA would not increase its scale of FUM to the same extent as a 
merged NAB-AXA. Therefore, the ACCC considered that, relative to a merged 
NAB-AXA, there was a greater prospect of either a merged AMP-AXA or AXA 
as a stand-alone entity, competing strongly on platform administration fees.  
Barriers to entry 
125. On the basis of the information available, the ACCC formed the view that 
barriers to entry in the supply of retail investment platforms are significant, 
especially given the substantial sunk costs of entry and the scale, distribution 
capability, and reputation in the industry that would be necessary to be a viable 
competitive threat to existing key players. Given the high barriers to entry, the 
ACCC formed the view that there is no credible threat of new entry that will 
provide an effective competitive constraint on a merged NAB-AXA or to drive 
competitive responses from other competitors in the way that AXA, as a stand-
alone entity or acquired by AMP, is likely to provide.  
126. Developing and operating a retail investment platform involves significant 
upfront capital investment, the development and implementation of sophisticated 
technology and substantial on-going development and maintenance costs. 
Inquiries indicate that the initial sunk costs range from around $30 million to 
$100 million. This does not include on-going platform development and 
maintenance costs. 


National Australia Bank Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited  
AMP Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited 
 
-25- 
127. The ACCC inquiries indicated that minimum efficient scale is likely to be 
significantly higher for vertically integrated firms that have an existing 
distribution network and a range of legacy products, systems and technology. 
This is due to the complexities involved in integrating administration systems and 
technologies when establishing a new retail investment platform. 
128. The other significant (and related) barriers to entry in the supply of retail 
investment platforms are: 
 sufficient scale of FUM to generate a reasonable return on investment (to 
offset the initial sunk costs to establish a retail investment platform); 
 
 securing access to distribution via financial planners; and 
 
 developing a strong brand and reputation in the industry to gain confidence 
from financial planners in directing client funds to the retail investment 
platform. 
 
129. It is necessary for a new entrant to achieve sufficient scale of FUM in a timely 
manner in order to generate a reasonable return on investment. The ACCC notes 
the launch by Credit Suisse of its MasterWrap platform in 2004, which was 
closed after two years because it did not achieve sufficient scale to be 
commercially viable.  
130. The ACCC noted that ten years ago, Macquarie was able to enter successfully 
without a network of aligned financial planners by targeting non-aligned financial 
planners. Such entry would be unlikely to be easily replicated today due to the 
extent to which non-aligned financial planners have established relationships with 
retail investment platform providers, even if the potential new entrant had a 
strong brand and reputation in the industry. In addition, the incremental 
consolidation of non-aligned dealer groups by the major incumbent wealth 
management players has reduced the proportion of non-aligned financial planners 
relative to aligned financial planners. While the non-aligned channel has reduced 
in proportional terms, non-aligned financial planners still represent a substantial 
segment of distribution. As discussed above, non-aligned financial planners are a 
critical driver of competition between retail investment platforms because of their 
increased ability to redirect new inflows between competing platforms. 
131. The ACCC’s inquiries indicated that the primary method for attracting scale is 
through the distribution networks of aligned financial planners that can channel 
client funds to a particular platform. Scale may also be attracted through non-
aligned planner channels. New entrants have previously gained scale by paying 
volume rebates to dealer groups. The ACCC’s inquiries indicated that new entry 
completely reliant upon attracting minimum efficient scale from non-aligned 
planner channels was unlikely to occur as a result of the existing relationships 
between platform providers and non-aligned planners and related switching costs. 


National Australia Bank Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited  
AMP Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited 
 
-26- 
132. In recent years, niche players such as Hub 24 and Praemium have launched 
investment platform offerings. Based on its inquiries, the ACCC considered that 
these platforms do not provide services that are close substitutes to the services 
provided by full service retail investment platforms. The ACCC formed the view 
that these platforms would be unlikely to provide an effective competitive 
constraint upon full service retail investment platforms because of their limited 
service offering and lack of an aligned distribution network. The ACCC also 
noted uncertainty as to the extent to which such niche players can scale up their 
systems to accommodate a large distribution network of a size that would provide 
a meaningful competitive constraint to existing retail investment platform 
providers. 
133. Given the high barriers to entry, the ACCC formed the view that there is no 
credible threat of new entry that will provide an effective competitive constraint 
on a merged NAB-AXA or to drive competitive responses from other competitors 
in the way that AXA, as a stand-alone entity or acquired by AMP, is likely to 
provide.  
Potential for enhancing platforms using “off the shelf” technology 
134. The ACCC noted that there were a number of alternate retail investment 
platforms in the market for the supply of retail investment platforms for investors 
with complex investment needs.  However, as outlined above, the ACCC formed 
the view that, in the absence of AXA’s continued presence as a likely vigorous 
and effective competitor in the foreseeable future, remaining competitors would 
not have the incentive to compete strongly in terms of innovation or price.  
135. The ACCC also considered whether other market participants would have the 
ability to easily replicate the developments which AXA is significantly 
progressed in delivering to market. The ACCC recognised that the base 
technology of the North platform is not exclusive. The ACCC noted, however, 
that for any new ‘off the shelf’ base technology purchased by competing platform 
providers, significant time, cost and resources are needed to customise, adapt, 
configure and integrate new platform technology to enable it to function 
effectively with existing software and systems. The ACCC formed the view that, 
leaving aside other barriers to entry or expansion, it is likely to take a significant 
length of time and considerable expense for competitors to replicate the 
developments currently underway by AXA to deliver a next generation full 
service wrap platform to service clients with complex investment needs. In 
particular, this is likely to be the case for the major incumbent platform providers 
which have a significant number of legacy platform systems. 


National Australia Bank Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited  
AMP Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited 
 
-27- 
Coordinated effects 
136. The ACCC also considered whether the proposed acquisitions would be likely to 
raise coordinated effects concerns. Mergers have coordinated effects when they 
assist firms in the relevant markets in explicitly or implicitly coordinating their 
pricing, output or related commercial decisions. This may result in a substantial 
lessening, prevention or hindrance of competition in a number of ways, including 
resulting in an increase in the prices of the relevant goods or services, or chilling 
innovation competition. 
137. The ACCC conducted inquiries as to whether the removal of AXA as a likely 
vigorous and effective competitor could give rise to an increased risk of 
coordinated conduct. This is because AXA may have a greater incentive to win 
market share in order to grow and maintain scale. Consequently, removing one 
vigorous and effective competitor from the market may make it more likely that 
the remaining platform providers can reach a consensus. The removal of such a 
platform provider in an already concentrated market reduces the number of 
platform providers that may be willing to deviate from the consensus. 
138. In the Statement of Issues, the ACCC outlined some concerns raised during 
market inquiries that the NAB proposed acquisition may increase the incentive 
and ability of the merged entity to engage in coordinated conduct in the relevant 
markets identified. These concerns stemmed from the increasing concentration in 
the wealth management sector, and in particular the increased market share of the 
major banks. 
139. The ACCC noted that the significant presence of the major banks in wealth 
management and banking may increase the risk of coordinated conduct in both 
sectors. A merged NAB-AXA may take into account not only the reaction of 
competitors within the wealth management market, but also competitor reactions 
in other markets such as banking. In contrast, a competitor that operates in fewer 
markets may not be as concerned with the reactions of participants in unrelated 
markets and hence may be more likely to pursue market share by competing 
aggressively. 
140. The information considered by the ACCC did not rule out the prospect of 
coordinated effects arising in the market for the supply of retail investment 
platforms for investors with complex needs as a result of a merged NAB-AXA. 
However, the ACCC did not consider it necessary to form a view as to whether 
the NAB proposed acquisition would be likely to result in a substantial lessening, 
preventing or hindering of competition in this market on this basis.  
141. The ACCC considered that an acquisition of AXA by AMP was unlikely to give 
rise to an increased risk of coordinated effects in this market, as a merged AMP-
AXA would continue to have incentives to compete aggressively to enable it to 
expand in the non-aligned financial planner channel.  


National Australia Bank Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited  
AMP Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited 
 
-28- 
Conclusion on the likely competitive effects of the proposed 
acquisitions in the market for the supply of retail investment 
platforms for investors with complex investment needs 
142. The ACCC concluded that having regard to the likely future competitive 
environment without the NAB proposed acquisition, AXA, remaining as a stand-
alone entity or merging with AMP, is likely to provide vigorous and effective 
competition which will rival its platform competitors in the market for the supply 
of retail investment platforms for investors with complex needs.  
NAB proposed acquisition 
143. Having regard to the likely future competitive environment with the NAB 
proposed acquisition, the ACCC concluded the removal of AXA as a vigorous 
and effective competitor with significant distribution and scale capable of 
generating a competitive response from leading platform providers would weaken 
incentives of large scale platform providers to continue to invest in platform 
innovation. As noted, platform innovation in terms of functionality and quality of 
service is and is likely to continue to be a key driver of competition in the market.  
144. As a result of this and the other factors outlined above, the ACCC formed the 
view that the NAB Proposed Acquisition would be likely to substantially lessen, 
prevent or hinder competition in the market for the supply of retail investment 
platforms for investors with complex needs in contravention of section 50 of the 
Act. 
AMP proposed acquisition 
145. The ACCC formed the view that the proposed acquisition of AXA by AMP 
would be unlikely to result in a substantial lessening, prevention or hindrance of 
competition in any of the relevant markets identified.  
(ii)  Impact of the proposed acquisitions in other wealth management 
markets 
146. In each of the following markets, based on the information available, the ACCC 
formed the view that the proposed acquisitions were unlikely to raise unilateral 
competition concerns, although the ACCC considered that it did not need to reach 
a definitive view in this regard.  
Supply of investment products available on retail platforms 
147. On the basis of the information available, the ACCC formed the view that the 
proposed acquisitions were unlikely to raise unilateral concerns in the market for 
the supply of investment products available on platforms because of the number 
of providers which would remain in this market to constrain either merged entity.  


National Australia Bank Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited  
AMP Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited 
 
-29- 
148. The ACCC also investigated the ability of either merged entity to limit, remove 
or deny access to third party providers of investment products seeking to 
distribute those products on its platforms. Market inquiries indicated that strong 
incentives remain for platform providers to offer a broad range of investment 
products on their platforms. The ACCC noted that third party providers of 
investment products with strong historical performance have considerable 
bargaining power with platform providers, due to the demand for their products 
from financial planners and investors.  
149. On the basis of the information available, it appeared that the proposed 
acquisitions were unlikely to result in either merged entity engaging in strategies 
to foreclose third party providers of investment products.  
150. While the ACCC considered that the proposed acquisitions would be unlikely to 
raise competition concerns in the market for the supply of investment products, 
the ACCC also considered that having such products available on a platform is 
necessary for the platform to attract financial planners in order to build the 
necessary scale (through increasing FUM). The ability to attract and build 
sufficient scale directly impacts a platform’s ongoing viability and 
competitiveness in the market for retail investment platforms for investors with 
complex investment needs. 
Potential foreclosure effects on regional banks 
151. The ACCC investigated whether the proposed acquisitions could impact on the 
ability of regional banks to offer a complete suite of products in banking and 
wealth management markets, or provide either merged entity with the ability and 
incentive to restrict channels of distribution for the regional banks. 
152. On the basis of the information available, it appeared that neither merged entity 
would have the ability and incentive to foreclose regional banks due to the 
existence of a range of alternative providers, both platform providers and non-
aligned dealer groups, through which the regional banks may distribute their 
products. The ACCC also considered that regional banks predominantly supplied 
their banking products through their own branch networks, and were not reliant 
on retail investment platform providers to distribute their banking products.  


National Australia Bank Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited  
AMP Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited 
 
-30- 
Financial planning and advisory services 
153. As discussed above, most retail investors rely on financial planners to access a 
broad range of wealth management products and services. On the basis of the 
information available, the proposed acquisitions were unlikely to raise unilateral 
competition concerns in the market for the supply of financial planning and 
advisory services. The ACCC considered that neither merged entity would be 
likely to have the ability and incentive to increase fees for advice charged to 
investors or reduce quality of service and range of products offered. The ACCC 
formed the view that either merged entity was likely to be constrained by the 
remaining financial planners in the market which are not aligned or under the 
influence of either merged entity.  
154. While the ACCC considered that the proposed acquisitions would be unlikely to 
significantly affect horizontal competition between financial planners, retail 
investment platforms are a key input to financial planning and advisory services. 
Accordingly, any reduction in competition between platform providers will flow 
through to investors via financial planners. 
155. At the same time, providers of retail investment platforms rely on financial 
planners to use their platforms to service investors. The ACCC considered that 
having sufficient access to financial planners is critical to the viability and 
success of platforms and competition in the market for retail investment 
platforms for investors with complex needs. 
Superannuation and retirement income products 
156. On the basis of the information available, the ACCC formed the view that the 
proposed acquisitions were unlikely to raise unilateral concerns in the market for 
the supply of superannuation and retirement income products. The ACCC is of 
the view that either merged entity was likely to be constrained by alternative 
suppliers of superannuation and retirement income products, including the 
competitive constraint imposed on retail superannuation products by industry 
funds and SMSFs.  
Life insurance 
157. On the basis of the information available, the ACCC formed the view that the 
proposed acquisitions were unlikely to raise unilateral concerns in the market for 
the supply of life insurance products. The ACCC is of the view that either merged 
entity was likely to be constrained by a number of alternative suppliers of life 
insurance products.  


National Australia Bank Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited  
AMP Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited 
 
-31- 
(iii) Impact of the proposed acquisitions in banking markets 
158. The ACCC also investigated the impact of the proposed acquisitions in banking 
markets. On the basis of the information available, it appeared that the proposed 
acquisitions were unlikely to substantially lessen competition in banking markets. 
159. Conglomerate mergers are mergers between firms that interact across several 
separate markets and supply products that are typically in some way related to 
each other, such as products that are in neighbouring markets or products that are 
complementary in either demand or supply.  
160. The ACCC considered that the proposed acquisitions would be unlikely to give 
either merged entity the ability or incentive to leverage its retail banking products 
via its wealth management channels or vice versa. The ACCC received 
information that NAB along with the other major banks already engage in some 
form of cross selling of their retail banking products and wealth management 
products. Based on the information available, the ACCC considered that the 
proposed acquisitions would be unlikely to provide NAB or AMP with any 
significant additional market share or power in retail banking. 
161. The ACCC’s inquiries indicated that while the banks distribute their range of 
financial services products through their branches, customers typically tend to 
seek out wealth management products and services from dedicated financial 
service provider outlets. 
162. On the basis of the information available, the ACCC considered that either 
proposed acquisition is unlikely to increase the ability or incentive of the merged 
entity to leverage its retail banking products via its wealth management channels 
or vice versa. 
Conclusion on the proposed acquisitions 
 
163. The ACCC formed the view that the NAB proposed acquisition would be likely 
to have the effect of substantially lessening, preventing or hindering competition 
in the national market for the supply of retail investment platforms for investors 
with complex investment needs in contravention of section 50 of the Act.  
164. In all other relevant markets identified above, the ACCC considered the proposed 
acquisition of AXA by NAB would be unlikely to result in a substantial 
lessening, prevention or hindrance of competition, although as noted above the 
ACCC considered that it did not need to reach a definitive view.  
165. The ACCC formed the view that the AMP proposed acquisition would be 
unlikely to result in a substantial lessening, prevention or hindrance of 
competition in any of the relevant markets identified.  


National Australia Bank Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited  
AMP Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited 
 
-32- 
Proposed Undertakings 
 
Undertakings offered by NAB and AXA 
166. NAB and AXA offered proposed undertakings pursuant to section 87B of the Act 
in an attempt to address the ACCC’s competition concerns with the proposed 
acquisition (the proposed undertakings). The proposed undertakings provided 
for the divestiture of the North platform administration business operated by 
AXA to the proposed purchaser, IOOF.  
167. In summary, the proposed undertakings provided for: 
 the divestiture of the North platform administration business carried out by 
AXA using the Bluedoor software (owned by DST Global Solutions (DST) 
(the divestiture business).  The divestiture business included certain related 
assets, intellectual property rights, trademarks, rights and obligations under 
particular agreements, and personnel necessary to operate the business. 
 the acquisition of platform administration services by the AXA product issuers 
of the North products exclusively from the proposed purchaser for the North 
products for a period of three years10 following the completion of the purchaser 
product capability (see below).  
 NAB to provide funding to an approved purchaser to enable DST to complete 
(in approximately eight months) the following enhancements to the Bluedoor 
software:  
(i) outstanding enhancements to the Bluedoor software that were planned 
for development by AXA during 2010, including functionality for direct 
equities capability, model portfolios, dollar cost averaging and term 
deposits, margin lending (already completed by AXA) and enhanced 
online/straight through processing (already completed by AXA) 
(platform enhancements); 
(ii) enhancements to the Bluedoor software that would allow the approved 
purchaser to support its own products through the divestiture business 
(purchaser product capability). 
 AXA (before the completion of the proposed acquisition) and NAB (after the 
completion of the proposed acquisition) to provide certain transitional services 
to the approved purchaser for a period of time. 
168. Under AXA’s proposed undertaking, AXA would divest the divestiture business 
to an approved purchaser prior to the completion of the proposed acquisition. 
                                                 
10  The proposed undertakings provided for the existing North products being retained by the current 
AXA product issuers and these product issuers entering into a Platform Administration Services 
Agreement (PASA) with the proposed purchaser. Under the PASA, the proposed purchaser would 
provide platform administration services to the product issuers for the North products. 


National Australia Bank Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited  
AMP Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited 
 
-33- 
169. The aim of the proposed undertakings was to create a viable, effective, 
independent and long term competitor in the market for the supply of retail 
investment platforms for investors with complex needs. 
170. The proposed undertakings comprised undertakings offered by NAB and AXA 
pursuant to section 87B of the Act and a significant number of commercial 
agreements between NAB, AXA and third parties. 
Market inquiries on the proposed undertakings 
171. On 9 August 2010, the ACCC commenced market consultation on the proposed 
undertakings and on the suitability of the proposed purchaser. The ACCC 
conducted market inquiries with a range of industry participants, including dealer 
groups, financial planners, investment product providers and industry 
associations. Concerns raised during market consultation are discussed below. 
The majority of these participants raised concerns that the proposed undertakings, 
including the proposed purchaser, would not provide an effective competitive 
constraint on a merged NAB-AXA or other existing key players. 
 
ACCC’s decision on the proposed undertakings and the proposed purchaser 
 
172. On 9 September 2010, the ACCC decided to reject the proposed undertakings 
offered by NAB and AXA as they were not sufficient to remedy the ACCC’s 
competition concerns for the reasons outlined below. 
 
 The proposed undertakings do not include any distribution network. The 
proposed undertakings do not include the divestiture of any distribution 
network of financial planners which currently support the North platform. This 
raises considerable uncertainty as to whether a proposed purchaser operating 
the divestiture business would be able to offer aggressive competition to 
restore the competition lost by the proposed acquisition. The lack of 
distribution assets directly impacts the ongoing viability and competitiveness 
of the divestiture business, including a heavy a heavy reliance upon the 
proposed purchaser having sufficient distribution capability to provide an 
effective competitive constraint upon existing key players in the foreseeable 
future. 
 The proposed undertakings do not include the North products which 
provide scale of FUM. The proposed undertakings do not include the 
divestiture of the North products which have been important in attracting 
inflows to the North platform. The North products also provide the North 
platform scale of FUM to ensure its ongoing viability and competitiveness. 
Market inquiries confirmed the importance of the North products to attracting 
scale on the North platform. The omission of the North products raises 
considerable uncertainty that a proposed purchaser operating the divestiture 
business would be able to maintain and attract sufficient scale in a timely 
manner to enable ongoing investment to maintain and develop the North 
platform. The exclusion of the North products from the proposed undertakings 
directly impacts the ongoing viability and competitiveness of the divestiture 
business. 


National Australia Bank Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited  
AMP Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited 
 
-34- 
 The proposed undertakings are uncertain and dependent on third parties.  
The proposed undertakings are dependent on parties other than NAB and AXA 
including reliance upon DST and the AXA North product issuers. The 
proposed undertakings are reliant on a number of separate agreements between 
different parties. Market inquiries expressed concern regarding the complex 
nature of the behavioural obligations in the undertakings and noted that 
effectiveness of the undertakings is critically dependent on third parties to 
complete actions that will directly impact on the ability of the proposed 
purchaser to provide an effective competitive constraint and therefore 
uncertain. Despite certain incentives being built into the proposed 
undertakings, the uncertainty and dependency on third parties directly impacts 
the ongoing viability and potential competitiveness of the divestiture business. 
173. In forming the view that the NAB proposed acquisition would be likely to result 
in a substantial lessening, prevention or hindrance of competition, the ACCC 
concluded that barriers to entry in the retail investment platform market are high 
and require a new entrant to have sufficient scale and a distribution network of 
financial planners to be successful in providing a competitive constraint. The 
divestiture proposal does not include a standalone business which incorporates 
the distribution assets for the North products or the North products which are 
integral components to the success of the North platform.   
174. The omission of the distribution assets and the North products from the 
divestiture business results in a reliance on the proposed purchaser’s ability to 
attract sufficient scale to the North platform, to ensure the continued viability of 
the divestiture business. It also results in a reliance on the merged NAB-AXA to 
comply with, for a period of three to four years, extensive behavioural obligations 
in the proposed undertakings. 
175. Based on the results of market inquiries and its assessment of the proposed 
undertakings, the ACCC formed the view that there was considerable doubt that 
the proposed purchaser with the divestiture package proposed by NAB and AXA 
would be likely to provide an ongoing and effective competitive constraint on 
large scale platform providers for the following reasons. 
 The proposed purchaser appeared unlikely to have a sufficient distribution 
capability or be able to attract such capability in order to provide an effective 
competitive constraint upon existing key players in a timely manner. Market 
inquiries confirmed that the lack of any distribution assets in the proposed 
undertakings would significantly reduce the ability of the proposed purchaser 
to grow scale on the North platform. 
 There is considerable uncertainty as to the proposed purchaser’s ability to 
grow scale in a timely manner without the benefit of the distribution network 
and North products which currently support the North platform. 
 The relationship between the proposed purchaser and a merged NAB-AXA 
created by the proposed undertakings present a risk that the proposed 
purchaser will have diminished incentives to aggressively compete against a 
merged NAB-AXA. 


National Australia Bank Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited  
AMP Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited 
 
-35- 
176. Finally, the ACCC considered that the proposed undertakings do not provide a 
complete structural remedy to alleviate the ACCC’s competition concerns, but 
rather involve complex and long term behavioural obligations that presented risks 
and uncertainty. 
177. The ACCC concluded that the substantial lessening, prevention or hindrance of 
competition which would be likely to arise as a result of the NAB proposed 
acquisition would not be remedied by the proposed undertakings. 


National Australia Bank Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited  
AMP Ltd – proposed acquisition of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited 
 
-36- 
Appendix A - ACCC review timelines 
 
The following tables outline the timeline of key events in relation to the ACCC’s 
review of the proposed acquisitions. 
 
Table 1 
ACCC timeline for review of the NAB proposed acquisition 
Date 
Event 
19 January 2010 
ACCC commenced review of the NAB proposed acquisition under the 
Merger Review Process Guidelines. 
5 February 2010 
Closing date for submissions from interested parties. 
10 February 2010 
ACCC published a Statement of Issues outlining preliminary 
competition concerns. Former proposed dates for announcement of 
ACCC's findings, amended to allow for Statement of Issues. 
26 February 2010 
Closing date for submissions relating to Statement of Issues. 
12 March 2010 
Former proposed date for announcement of ACCC's findings of 17 
March 2010, amended to allow the ACCC to consider further 
information requested from the merger parties. 
19 April 2010 
ACCC announced it would oppose the NAB proposed acquisition. 
9 August 2010  
ACCC commenced market consultation on the proposed undertakings 
by NAB and AXA and on the suitability of the proposed purchaser. 
23 August 2010 
Closing date for submissions from interested parties. 
9 September 2010 
ACCC announced its decision to reject the proposed undertakings 
offered by NAB and AXA. 
 
Table 2 
ACCC timeline for review of the AMP proposed acquisition 
Date 
Event 
4 December 2009 
ACCC commenced review of the AMP proposed acquisition under the 
Merger Review Process Guidelines. 
11 December 2009 
ACCC requested further information from AMP Limited. 
18 December 2009 
In light of AMP's announcement to the ASX on 17 December 2009, 
ACCC timeline for review of the AMP proposed acquisition suspended. 
21 December 2009 
Upon AMP's request that the ACCC continue with its review of the AMP 
proposed acquisition, ACCC timeline recommenced. 
24 December 2009 
Closing date for submissions from interested parties in relation to the 
AMP proposed acquisition. 
10 February 2010 
ACCC published a Statement of Issues outlining preliminary 
competition concerns. Former proposed dates for announcement of 
ACCC's findings, amended to allow for Statement of Issues. 
26 February 2010 
Closing date for submissions relating to Statement of Issues. 
12 March 2010 
Former proposed date for announcement of ACCC's findings of 17 
March 2010, amended to allow the ACCC to consider further 
information requested from the merger parties. 
30 March 2010 
The ACCC deferred its former proposed date for announcement in 
relation to the AMP proposed acquisition of 1 April 2010. It is continuing 
to receive relevant information and will make a decision as soon as all 
relevant information has been considered. 
19 April 2010 
ACCC announced it would not oppose the AMP proposed acquisition. 
 
 
