 
Page 1 of 11 
 
Public Competition Assessment 
3 May 2013 
Nestle – proposed acquisition of Pfizer Nutrition 
Introduction 
1. On 22 November 2012, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission 
(ACCC) announced its decision not to oppose the proposed acquisition by Nestlé 
S.A. (Nestlé) of Pfizer Nutrition, a global infant nutrition business, from Pfizer Inc. 
(Pfizer) (the proposed acquisition), subject to undertakings accepted by the 
ACCC on 22 November 2012 (the undertakings) pursuant to section 87B of the 
Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth) (the Act). The ACCC decided that the 
proposed acquisition, in conjunction with the undertakings, would be unlikely to 
have the effect of substantially lessening competition in the relevant markets in 
contravention of section 50 of the Act.  
2. The ACCC made its decision on the basis of the information provided by the 
parties to the proposed acquisition (the parties) and information arising from its 
market inquiries. This Public Competition Assessment outlines the basis on which 
the ACCC has reached its decision on the proposed acquisition, subject to 
confidentiality considerations. 
Public Competition Assessment 
3. To provide an enhanced level of transparency in its decision making process, the 
ACCC issues a Public Competition Assessment for all proposals where: 
 
an acquisition is opposed; 
 
an acquisition is subject to enforceable undertakings; 
 
the parties to the acquisition seek such disclosure; or 
 
an acquisition is not opposed but raises important issues that the ACCC 
considers should be made public. 
4. This Public Competition Assessment has been issued because Nestlé’s proposed 
acquisition of Pfizer Nutrition is subject to court enforceable undertakings. 
5. By issuing Public Competition Assessments, the ACCC aims to provide the public 
with a better understanding of the ACCC's analysis of various markets and the 
associated merger and competition issues. It also alerts the public to 


 
Page 2 of 11 
circumstances where the ACCC’s assessment of the competition conditions in 
particular markets is changing, or likely to change. 
6. Each Public Competition Assessment is specific to the particular transaction under 
review by the ACCC. While some transaction proposals may involve the same or 
related markets, it should not be assumed that the analysis and decision outlined 
in one Public Competition Assessment will be conclusive of the ACCC’s view in 
respect of other transaction proposals, as each matter will be considered on a 
case-by-case basis. 
7. Public Competition Assessments outline the ACCC’s principal reasons for forming 
views on a proposed acquisition at the time the decision was made. As such, 
Public Competition Assessments may not definitively identify and explain all issues 
that the ACCC considers arise from a proposed acquisition. Further, the ACCC’s 
decisions generally involve consideration of both non-confidential and confidential 
information provided by the parties and market participants. In order to maintain 
the confidentiality of particular information, Public Competition Assessments do not 
contain any confidential information or its sources. 
The parties 
Nestlé  
8. Nestlé is a global food and beverage manufacturer listed on the Swiss stock 
exchange. Nestlé supplies a broad variety of food and beverage products, 
including dairy products, coffee beverages, cereals, condiments and confectionary 
products. Nestlé also supplies a range of health care and nutrition products.  
9. Nestlé is active globally in the manufacture and wholesale supply of infant nutrition 
products. In Australia, Nestlé’s infant formula and toddler milk brands include NAN 
and Lactogen.  
 
Pfizer Nutrition 
10. Pfizer Nutrition is a leading global paediatric nutrition company listed on the New 
York, London, Euronext and Swiss stock exchanges. Pfizer Nutrition, formerly 
Wyeth Nutrition, is part of Pfizer, a multinational pharmaceutical corporation. 
11. Pfizer Nutrition is active globally in the manufacture and supply of infant nutrition 
products. In Australia, Pfizer Nutrition’s infant formula and toddler milk brands 
include S-26 and SMA. 
 
Other industry participants 
Nutricia Australia 
12. Nutricia Australia (Nutricia) is a division of the French multinational company 
Danone. Globally, Danone supplies a range of fresh dairy products, bottled waters, 
baby nutrition and medical nutrition products.  
13. In Australia, Nutricia supplies infant and toddler milk formula under the ‘Karicare’ 
and ‘Karicare Aptamil’ brands. Nutricia also supplies the ‘Neocate’ brand, a 
hypoallergenic range, which is only available through the pharmacy channel.  


 
Page 3 of 11 
Heinz 
14. Heinz is a global food company. In Australia, it supplies infant formula and toddler 
milk under the ‘Heinz Nurture’ brand. 
Bellamy’s Organic 
15. Bellamy’s Organic is a Tasmanian company that supplies certified organic infant 
formula and toddler milk under the brand ‘Bellamy’s Organic’. 
Bayer 
16. Bayer is a global company that supplies health care and nutrition products. In 
Australia, Bayer supplies the ‘Novalac’ range of infant formula, which includes 
specialised infant formula designed to feed and manage common infant feeding 
problems of colic, constipation, diarrhoea and reflux. Bayer’s products are only 
available through pharmacies.  
Abbott 
17. Abbott Laboratories is a global health care company. In Australia, Abbott supplies 
specialised infant formula under the brands ‘EleCare’ and ‘Isomil’, which are only 
available through pharmacies.  
Other 
18. Some pharmacies (for example Amcal) supply their own private label infant 
formula and toddler milk. ALDI has also entered with private label infant formula 
and toddler milk under its ‘Mamia’ brand.  
The transaction 
19. Nestlé proposes to acquire the global infant nutrition business of Pfizer Nutrition. 
Globally, the proposed acquisition included Pfizer Nutrition’s baby formula 
business, and prenatal and maternal vitamin products.  
20. Nestlé’s proposed acquisition is conditional on obtaining informal clearance from 
the ACCC.  
Industry background 
21. Regulations in Australia applicable to nutritional milk formulas for infants and 
toddlers generally distinguish between two types of products: 
 
Starter Infant Formula and Follow-On Milk (IFFO Milk); and 
 
Growing-Up Milks (GUMs). 
22. IFFO Milk has a special dietary use and is intended as a substitute for human 
breast milk. IFFO Milk is formulated for infants aged between 0 and 12 months and 
is typically available in two compositions: 
 
Stage 1: starter infant formula – for infants aged 0 to 6 months; and 
 
Stage 2: follow-on formula – for infants aged 6 to 12 months. 


 
Page 4 of 11 
23. GUMs, also referred to as ‘toddler milks’, are formulated for children aged between 
1 and 5 years (Stage 3).  
24. There are also specialty formulas which are specifically formulated to address 
digestive problems or designed for infants and toddlers with special needs and are 
made available across all stages. Examples of specialty formulas include anti-
reflux and lactose intolerance formulas. Certain specialty formulas are available 
over-the-counter at pharmacies while other specialty formulas require 
prescriptions. 
Regulatory requirements 
25. Nutritional milk formulas for infants and toddlers, in particular IFFO Milk, are 
subject to a number of stringent regulatory requirements in Australia. These 
regulations relate to requirements for the ingredient composition of formulas and in 
respect of labelling and marketing of formulas. 
26. The Marketing in Australia of Infant Formulas: Manufacturers and Importers 
Agreement (MAIF Agreement) prohibits manufacturers and importers of IFFO Milk 
from advertising or promoting IFFO Milk directly to the general public.1 The MAIF 
Agreement does not apply to GUMs/toddler milks nor to retailers (such as 
supermarkets) or distributors of infant formula. 
27. The MAIF Agreement also imposes limitations on the interaction between infant 
formula manufacturers and health care professionals to the provision of information 
relating to scientific and factual matters only. 
28. Standard 2.9.1 of the Australia New Zealand Food Standards Code (FSANZ 
Code) provides for the compositional and labelling requirements for IFFO Milk. 
Standard 2.9.3 of the FSANZ Code sets out the compositional and labelling 
requirements for formulated meal replacements and formulated supplementary 
foods, which includes GUMs. 
Review timeline 
29. The following table outlines the timeline of key events in this matter. 
Date 
Event 
24 May 2012 
ACCC commenced review under the Merger Review Process 
Guidelines. 
14 June 2012 
Closing date for submissions from interested parties. 
5 July 2012 
 
ACCC requested further information from the merger parties. ACCC 
timeline suspended. Former proposed decision date for 
announcement of ACCC's findings of 12 July 2012 delayed pending 
receipt of information requested. 
13 August 2012 
 
ACCC received further information from the merger parties following 
ACCC's request for information on 5 July 2012. ACCC timeline 
recommenced. 
22 August 2012 
ACCC timeline suspended at the request of Nestle to allow it to 
                                                 
1  The MAIF Agreement was authorised by the then Trade Practices Commission (now the ACCC) in 1992. 
Authorisation of the MAIF Agreement was required as it contains marketing restrictions limiting competition and 
was granted on the basis that the public benefit outweighed any anti-competitive effect. 


 
Page 5 of 11 
Date 
Event 
provide further information. Former proposed decision date of 23 
August 2012 delayed. 
31 August 2012 
ACCC published a Statement of Issues outlining preliminary 
competition concerns. 
14 September 2012 
Closing date for submissions relating to Statement of Issues. 
11 October 2012 
ACCC timeline suspended to allow Nestle and the ACCC to continue 
negotiations on a draft s87B undertaking. Former proposed decision 
date of 11 October 2012 delayed. 
12 October 2012 
Draft s87B undertakings proffered by Nestle. ACCC commenced 
market inquiries. 
17 October 2012 
Closing date for submissions on the draft s87B undertaking from 
interested parties. 
24 October 2012 
ACCC timeline suspended at the request of Nestle to allow it to 
provide further information. Former proposed decision date of 25 
October 2012 delayed. 
16 November 2012 
ACCC timeline recommenced. 
22 November 2012 
87B undertaking accepted by ACCC. 
22 November 2012 
ACCC announced it would not oppose the proposed acquisition. 
Market inquiries 
30. The ACCC conducted extensive market inquiries in relation to the proposed 
acquisition with a range of industry participants, including competitors, potential 
competitors, customers (the major supermarket chains, pharmacies and other 
retailers), hospitals, healthcare professionals, industry bodies and other interested 
parties.  
31. Submissions were sought in relation to the substantive competition issues and 
proposed undertakings. 
Areas of overlap and market definition 
32. The ACCC considered that the following two markets were most relevant to the 
assessment of the competitive impact of the proposed acquisition: 
 
the national market for the wholesale supply of IFFO Milk; and 
 
the national market for the wholesale supply of GUMs.  
33. The ACCC considered that regardless of the markets defined, market definition 
appeared unlikely to be a determinative feature of the competition assessment for 
the proposed acquisition. This was because both parties have a significant 
presence in the supply of both IFFO Milk and GUMs.  
34. The ACCC notes that its approach to market definition is purposive, recognising 
that market definition is a tool to identify and define the boundaries of competitive 
overlap between the parties.  


 
Page 6 of 11 
With/without test 
35. Section 50 of the Act prohibits mergers or acquisitions that would have the effect or 
be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in any market. In 
assessing a proposed acquisition pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC 
considers the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future competitive 
environment post-acquisition if the acquisition proceeds (the “with” position) to the 
likely future competitive environment if the acquisition does not proceed (the 
“without” position) to determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in any relevant market. 
36. In the absence of the proposed acquisition, the ACCC considered that the likely 
future competitive environment would be the status quo, that is, Pfizer Nutrition 
would continue to operate as an independent, viable and effective competitor in the 
supply of IFFO Milk and GUMs.  
Statement of Issues 
37. The ACCC published its Statement of Issues (SoI) on 31 August 2012 identifying a 
number of competition issues and expressing its preliminary view that the 
proposed acquisition was likely to raise competition concerns in the relevant 
markets.  
38. The ACCC was concerned that the proposed acquisition would result in highly 
concentrated markets with the top two players (a merged Nestlé/Pfizer Nutrition 
and Nutricia) controlling around 90% of the relevant markets.  
39. In light of the strong brand equity of Nestlé and Pfizer Nutrition’s IFFO Milk and 
GUMs products as well as the substantial share of sales the merged firm would 
account for post-acquisition, the ACCC’s preliminary view was that the proposed 
acquisition was likely to result in muted competition and provide the merged firm 
with the ability to raise wholesale prices or reduce the level or frequency of the 
promotions/discounts that it offers to retailers. 
40. In addition, a reduction in the number of major suppliers of IFFO Milk and GUMs 
from three to two increases the likelihood of coordinated conduct between the 
major suppliers of IFFO Milk and GUMs.  
In-principle remedy proposal  
41. Prior to the release of the SoI, Nestlé provided the ACCC with an in-principle 
remedy proposal by which Nestlé would undertake to license to an approved 
purchaser, on an exclusive basis, Pfizer Nutrition’s entire Australian brand portfolio 
for a period of 5 years, with a subsequent 5 year period in which Nestlé would 
undertake not to reintroduce any of Pfizer Nutrition’s brands.  
42. The SoI included details of the in-principle remedy proposal and the ACCC sought 
market feedback on the broad principles of Nestlé’s proposed remedy.   
Competition analysis 
43. The ACCC’s market inquiries post-SoI did not raise any issues which would lead 
the ACCC to depart from its preliminary views expressed in the SoI.  


 
Page 7 of 11 
44. The ACCC considered that, in the absence of the undertakings, the proposed 
acquisition would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of substantially 
lessening competition in the relevant markets, as identified above.  
Removal of a close competitor 
45. The ACCC considered that the proposed acquisition would result in a significant 
increase in concentration in already concentrated markets, where barriers to entry 
and expansion are high. The proposed acquisition would lead to the consolidation 
of two of the three major suppliers in both the IFFO Milk and GUMs markets. Post-
acquisition the merged entity would account for approximately 60% of the share of 
sales in IFFO Milk and 50% in GUMs (Table 1)  The proposed acquisition would 
result in only two major suppliers (a merged Nestlé/Pfizer Nutrition and Nutricia) 
controlling approximately 90% of sales in the relevant markets.  
46. The ACCC considered that the proposed acquisition would lead to the removal of 
one of Nestlé’s closest competitors in the supply of IFFO Milk and GUMs and 
would reduce the number of major suppliers of IFFO Milk and GUMs with presence 
across the distribution channels (grocery/retail, pharmacy and hospital) from three 
to two. It would also lead to the consolidation of Pfizer Nutrition’s ‘S-26’ brand, 
which has long-standing trust and heritage in Australia, with Nestlé’s brand 
portfolio.   
Table 1 – Shares of supply – Starter Infant Formula and Follow-on Milk (IFFO Milk) and 
Growing-Up Milks (GUMs) (2011)  
Supplier 
IFFO Milk 
GUMs 
Nestlé 
21.5% 
14.6% 
Pfizer Nutrition 
38.2% 
34.8% 
Merged entity 
59.7% 
49.4% 
Nutricia 
30.7% 
37.2% 
Heinz 
4.5% 
6.5% 
Bellamy’s Organic 
1.8% 
6.8% 
Bayer 
2.2% 
n.a. 
Abbott 
0.7% 
n.a. 
Other 
0.4% 
n.a. 
TOTAL 
100% 
100% 
Source: AC Nielsen Scan Data FY2011 by value (retail sales – grocery and pharmacy) 
High barriers to entry and expansion 
47. The ACCC formed the view that barriers to entry and expansion are high for the 
supply of IFFO Milk and GUMs. Retail consumers exhibit a high degree of brand 
loyalty to their preferred brand which continues throughout the lifecycle of a 
consumer’s use of IFFO Milk and GUMs. The ACCC considered that the primary 
barrier to entry and expansion is the high degree of brand loyalty attached to the 
brands of the major incumbent suppliers. 
48. Further, in light of the MAIF Agreement which prohibits manufacturers and 
importers of IFFO Milk from advertising or promoting IFFO Milk directly to the 
general public, the ACCC considered that the reputation and credibility of a brand 
of infant formula is established over many years through suppliers actively 


 
Page 8 of 11 
engaging in building relationships with healthcare professionals and through a 
history of supply to, and association with, the hospital channel.  
49. In addition, the major suppliers of IFFO Milk and GUMs each have multiple product 
offerings across a broad range of product segments and categories. As shelf 
space in the major supermarket and pharmacy chains is a finite resource, the 
brand proliferation undertaken by the incumbent suppliers may result in only limited 
opportunities being available for further new entry and expansion.  
50. As a result of the high barriers to entry and expansion, the ACCC considered that 
the competition removed by the merger was unlikely to be replaced in the 
foreseeable future and as such the proposed acquisition would be likely to result in 
the entrenchment of a dominant player and/or duopoly in the supply of IFFO Milk 
and GUMs.  
Countervailing Power 
51. Countervailing power exists when buyers have special characteristics that enable 
them to credibly threaten to bypass the merged firm, such as by vertically 
integrating into the upstream market, establishing import operations or sponsoring 
new entry.  
52. The ACCC considered whether the major supermarket chains, as buyers of IFFO 
Milk and GUMs, would have sufficient countervailing power to constrain any 
attempt by a merged Nestlé/Pfizer Nutrition to increase wholesale prices and/or 
reduce the level or frequency of the promotions/discounts of IFFO Milk and GUMs 
products offered to retailers.  
53. The ACCC formed the view that for the supply of IFFO Milk and GUMs products, 
the degree of countervailing power held by the major supermarket chains and the 
wholesale suppliers to pharmacies would be unlikely to effectively constrain a 
merged Nestlé/Pfizer Nutrition.  
54. The ACCC understands that the brands supplied by Nestlé and Pfizer Nutrition are 
“must have” brands for the major supermarket chains and that retail consumers 
that purchase infant formula are typically high value grocery customers. Given the 
strong brand loyalty of the parties’ IFFO Milk and GUMs products and the 
importance of infant formula to retailers in enabling them to attract and retain high 
value retail consumers, the ACCC considered that the ability of the major 
supermarket chains to remove (or credibly threaten to remove) the products of the 
parties and replace them with a competitor’s products is limited. The ACCC 
considered that the negotiating position of a merged Nestlé/Pfizer Nutrition is likely 
to be even stronger post-merger in light of its significant share of sales in the 
supply of IFFO Milk and GUMs and the range of “must have” brands of infant 
formula it would command.  
55. The ACCC also considered that private label entry by the major supermarket 
chains is unlikely to occur for IFFO Milk and GUMs. Due to the sensitivity of infants 
and the stringent regulatory requirements applicable to infant formula, the supply of 
private label IFFO Milk and GUMs involves considerable risks to a major retailer’s 
overall reputation, if any quality issues were to arise in the manufacturing or supply 
of the product. In any event, without the necessary investment in brand credibility 
and in establishing relationships with healthcare professionals, the ACCC 
considered that the major supermarket chains’ private label IFFO Milk and GUMs 


 
Page 9 of 11 
products would be unlikely to pose a close or sufficient constraint on the IFFO Milk 
and GUMs products supplied by the merged entity.  
Undertakings 
56. The ACCC conducted preliminary market inquiries on the in-principle remedy 
proposal referred to in paragraph 41 above. The preliminary feedback from market 
participants identified strong concerns and risks. The key concern identified was 
that the in-principle remedy proposal created significant risks that a purchaser may 
not be able to successfully transition Pfizer Nutrition’s Australian brands to a 
purchaser’s proprietary brand within Nestlé’s proposed 5 year duration of the 
exclusive licence.   
57. In response to the market concerns, Nestlé provided a revised remedy proposal to 
the ACCC. Nestlé subsequently formalised its remedy proposal in the form of a 
section 87B undertaking. To support the obligations in Nestlé’s section 87B 
undertaking, Pfizer Australia Pty Ltd (Pfizer Australia) also offered a section 87B 
undertaking to the ACCC.  
58. The core element of the revised undertakings requires Nestlé to license Pfizer 
Nutrition’s Australian infant nutrition business’ brand portfolio to an independent 
purchaser, on an exclusive basis. The undertakings are designed to provide the 
means for an ACCC approved purchaser to successfully transition and re-brand 
Pfizer Nutrition’s S-26/SMA brand portfolio to its own proprietary brand over a 
number of years and also have the opportunity to build brand equity of the re-
branded products in a ‘black out’ period during which Nestlé undertakes not to 
reintroduce any of Pfizer’s brands.  
59. On 22 November 2012, the ACCC accepted the revised court enforceable 
undertakings from Nestlé (the Nestlé undertaking) and Pfizer Australia (the Pfizer 
undertaking), pursuant to section 87B of the Act.  
60. At the time of accepting the undertakings, the ACCC was aware of a number of 
potential purchasers of the divestiture business which have proven expertise in the 
manufacture and supply of IFFO Milk and GUMs. 
Nestlé Undertaking 
61. The undertaking offered by Nestlé provides for Nestlé to license Pfizer Nutrition’s 
Australian infant nutrition business’s brand portfolio to a licensee to be approved 
by the ACCC and includes the following key elements: 
 
an exclusive and fully paid-up licence to the brands used in relation to Pfizer 
Nutrition’s infant nutrition products (SMA, S-26 and sub-brands) in Australia 
for a term of 10 years; 
 
an exclusive and fully paid-up licence to the product formulations for the infant 
nutrition products currently sold by Pfizer Nutrition in Australia for a term of 10 
years, and which is non-exclusive on a perpetual basis thereafter; 
 
a non-exclusive perpetual licence to all process technology (including patents, 
manufacturing and marketing know-how) necessary to manufacture the 
licensed products, in existence as at the control date, as well as 
improvements to process technology developed by Nestlé for a period of no 
longer than 5years;  


 
Page 10 of 11 
 
for a period of 10 years after the end of the 10 year exclusive licence, a 
commitment by Nestlé not to: 
 
re-introduce into Australia any of Pfizer Nutrition’s Australian infant 
nutrition brands; or 
 
introduce into Australia the same formulations as used in the 
divestiture products, new products with non-material variations to these 
formulations or new products using the formulations  to which a new 
ingredient has been added that would be a material variation to the 
formulations;  
 
not to disparage the approved purchaser or to market, promote or sell new 
infant nutrition products with reference to S-26/SMA, subject to certain 
conditions, for 5 years; 
 
a supply agreement for the licensed products prior to the approved purchaser 
self-manufacturing the relevant infant nutrition products for a period of up to 3 
years; 
 
access to the results of clinical and product trials as conducted in respect of 
the licensed products or pipeline products for a period of up to 5 years; and 
 
access to detailed information in respect of key or unique product ingredients, 
including the sources of such product ingredients.  
62. In addition, the Nestlé undertaking includes the transfer of Pfizer Nutrition’s 
employees engaged in Australia who are wholly or primarily engaged in, or 
necessary for the operation of the divestiture business, all required consents and 
approvals and all business records. The undertaking also requires Nestlé to 
provide the approved purchaser with technical assistance for a limited duration of 
time.  
63. The objective of the Nestlé undertaking is aimed at ensuring that the current level 
of competition in the relevant markets will be maintained through the creation of a 
strong third major supplier of IFFO Milk and GUMs in Australia. The Nestlé 
undertaking also seeks to ensure that the approved purchaser has the necessary 
assets, rights and agreements to allow it to operate the divestiture business as a 
viable going concern to compete effectively in the relevant markets. 
Pfizer Undertaking 
64. Pfizer Australia also provided an undertaking to the ACCC pursuant to section 87B 
of the Act in relation to its obligations regarding the transfer of employees and the 
provision of transitional services to the approved purchaser. Pfizer Australia is 
required to provide a range of transitional services to maintain and protect the 
divestiture business during the hold separate period, including finance, personnel, 
commercial and marketing services, technology, real estate and facilities 
management services, procurement and supply chain and IT services.  
65. The Pfizer undertaking is aimed at ensuring that the divestiture business would 
continue to be operated in substantially the same manner as prior to the transfer of 
the divestiture business. 
66. The ACCC has also approved Pfizer Australia as the independent manager of the 
divestiture business, to manage the divestiture business from the date upon which 
the transaction between Nestlé and Pfizer Nutrition is completed until the date the 


 
Page 11 of 11 
business is transferred to an approved purchaser, in accordance with the Nestlé 
undertaking.  
Conclusion 
67. On the basis of the above, and taking into account the undertakings proposed by 
Nestlé and Pfizer, the ACCC formed the view that the proposed acquisition of 
Pfizer Nutrition by Nestlé would not have the effect or be likely to have the effect of 
substantially lessening competition in any market in contravention of section 50 of 
the Act. 
