 
Page 1 of 6 
 
Public Competition Assessment 
11 February 2019 
Thales S.A. - proposed acquisition of Gemalto N.V.  
 
The ACCC’s decision 
1. 
On 20 December 2018, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission 
(ACCC) announced its decision not to oppose the proposed acquisition of 
Gemalto N.V. (Gemalto) by Thales S.A.1 (Thales) (the proposed acquisition),   
following the acceptance of a section 87B divestiture undertaking.2 
2. 
The divestiture undertaking requires Thales to sell its global GP HSM business 
to a purchaser approved by the ACCC. 
3. 
The ACCC considered that the proposed acquisition, taking into account the 
divestiture undertaking, would not be likely to contravene section 50 of the 
Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the Act).  
4. 
Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to have 
the effect, of substantially lessening competition in any market. 
5. 
The ACCC focused its investigation on the markets for the supply of general 
purpose (GP) hardware security modules (HSM) and payment HSMs in 
Australia. 
6. 
The ACCC considered that as Thales and Gemalto were each other’s closest 
competitors and the two largest suppliers of GP HSMs worldwide and in 
Australia, the proposed acquisition would likely lead to a substantial lessening of 
competition without the divestiture undertaking.  
7. 
Please note that this and other public competition assessments are subject to 
the following qualifications: 
 
The ACCC considers each transaction on a case-by-case basis and so the 
analysis and decision outlined in one assessment will not necessarily 
                                                 
1 The proposed acquisition involves the subsidiary Thales Australia Holdings Pty Ltd.  
2 Merger parties can provide the ACCC with a court-enforceable undertaking under section 87B of the 
Competition and Consume Act 2010 to remedy competition concerns identified by the ACCC. 


 
Page 2 of 6 
reflect the ACCC’s view of another transaction, even where that other 
transaction may involve the same or a related market. 
 
As assessments are brief and do not refer to confidential information 
provided by the parties or other market participants, assessments do not 
set out all of the issues and information considered by the ACCC, nor all of 
the analysis and reasons of the ACCC.  
The parties  
The acquirer: Thales 
8. 
Thales is an international electronics and communications group registered in 
France and listed on the Euronext Stock Exchange in Paris. Thales provides 
systems and electronic services globally in five main areas: (i) aeronautics, (ii) 
space, (iii) ground transportation, (iv) defence, and (v) security. In 2017, Thales 
had operations in 56 countries with approximately 64,100 employees.  
9. 
In Australia, Thales has operations in every mainland state and territory 
comprising defence, aerospace, security, transportation and R&D. 
The target: Gemalto 
10. Gemalto is an international digital security company registered in the 
Netherlands and listed on the Euronext Stock Exchange in Paris and 
Amsterdam. Gemalto is involved in the development, manufacture or supply of, 
and the provision of services relating to, data encryption and security 
technologies and communications systems. In 2017, Gemalto had operations in 
47 countries with approximately 15,000 employees.  
11. Gemalto’s Australian operations are based in Melbourne and Sydney. 
The transaction 
12. Thales proposed to acquire all issued and outstanding ordinary shares of 
Gemalto by way of a full public offer.   
Review timeline 
13. The following table outlines the timeline of key events for the ACCC in this 
matter. 
Date 
Event 
24 September 2018 
ACCC commenced review under the Merger Process 
Guidelines. 
22 November 2018 
Former provisional decision date of 6 December 2018 delayed 
while ACCC waited for information from parties.  
17 December 2018 
ACCC received information from the parties. 
20 December 2018 
ACCC announced it would not oppose the proposed 
acquisition following the acceptance of a section 87B 
divestiture undertaking by the ACCC. 


 
Page 3 of 6 
14. The total elapsed time from start to finish was just under three months. The total 
period, net of time taken by the parties to submit information or documents, was 
46 business days.  
Market inquiries 
15. The ACCC conducted market inquiries with a range of industry participants, 
including competitors, potential competitors, customers, industry bodies, other 
regulatory agencies and other interested parties. Submissions were sought in 
relation to the potential competition issues. 
16. The ACCC also liaised closely with overseas agencies, including the European 
Commission, the US Department of Justice and the New Zealand Commerce 
Commission. 
Areas of overlap 
17. In  Australia, Thales and Gemalto overlap in the supply of: 
 
enterprise key management products, including HSMs 
 
encryption software for data at rest and in use. 
18. The main area of overlap between Thales and Gemalto is in the supply of HSMs, 
which are enterprise key management products. Enterprise key management 
products provide encryption keys to access data that has been encrypted and 
decrypted by an encryption algorithm across a variety of operating systems and 
databases. The generation, allocation, storage, protection and destruction of 
keys is critical to the success of data encryption.  
19. Thales and Gemalto both supply GP and payment HSMs in Australia. GP HSMs 
are tamper-resistant hardware devices that run on encryption software and 
generate keys, encrypt and decrypt data and verify digital signatures. Payment 
HSMs are similar to GP HSMs, but also have payment-related functionality and 
perform a high volume of payment operations and payment transaction 
processing. Payment HSMs are typically used by the retail banking industry. 
20. Encryption software performs the encryption and decryption of data to secure 
and control access to high-value information. Thales and Gemalto did not have a 
significant presence in Australia for the supply of enterprise encryption software, 
and there were a number of other significant providers with a global presence 
that were likely to act as a strong competitive constraint after the acquisition, 
including Dell, Microsoft, Oracle, Seagate, McAfee, Netscape, Trend Micro and 
many others. Therefore, the ACCC did not consider that the proposed 
acquisition was likely to substantially lessen competition in the supply of 
encryption software.  
Competition analysis 
21. During the course of its investigation, the ACCC received feedback from market 
participants, in particular customers of HSMs, that GP HSMs and payment 
HSMs are not typically substitutable as they serve different purposes and 
customers would be unlikely to switch from one to the other in response to an 


 
Page 4 of 6 
increase in price or reduction in quality. Therefore, the ACCC considered that for 
the purpose of the competition analysis, separate markets for the supply of GP 
HSMs and payment HSMs were likely to exist. This approach to market definition 
was also taken by a number of other competition regulators which considered 
the proposed acquisition, including the European Commission and the New 
Zealand Commerce Commission.   
22. The ACCC also considered that other solutions such as HSM-as-a-service and 
cloud-based key management products were not currently a close substitute to 
traditional on-premise GP and payment HSMs, but could potentially become so 
in the future. These alternative products were not considered part of the relevant 
markets.  
23. The ACCC considered that the relevant geographic scope of the separate 
markets for the supply of GP HSM and payment HSM markets was national, 
noting that competition on product quality predominantly occurs on a global basis 
as the products supplied in Australia are generally homogenous to those 
supplied in other countries. 
General Purpose HSMs 
24. The ACCC considers that Thales and Gemalto are each other’s closest 
competitor and the two largest providers of GP HSMs in Australia and globally. 
Therefore, the ACCC was concerned that the proposed acquisition could lead to 
higher prices or reduced service levels for the supply of GP HSMs in Australia. 
There were also concerns that the removal of Gemalto would have a detrimental 
impact on innovation.   
25. The ACCC received evidence of Thales and Gemalto competing closely with 
each other across their GP HSM range, including by comparing and contrasting 
each other’s features, functions, performance, technology and reputation to 
current and potential customers. In some circumstances, customers had 
leveraged this competition between Thales and Gemalto to obtain better pricing 
and superior terms.  
26. The ACCC considered that barriers to entry for overseas suppliers are likely to 
be high. Customers of GP HSMs face significant barriers to switching between 
suppliers as switching is costly, complex, risky and time consuming. Switching 
involves the migration of cryptographic material and the redevelopment of certain 
codes and algorithms. The ACCC received information that the process to 
extract cryptographic material and handle it outside the secure boundary of the 
GP HSM introduces risks that may deter some customers from switching GP 
HSM suppliers, and that the time it takes to switch suppliers is generally two to 
five years and requires a significant amount of testing. 
27. Some customers of Thales and Gemalto expressed a strong preference for their 
GP HSM supplier to have a local presence, as Thales and Gemalto do. 
Therefore, the ACCC considered that it would take a significant increase in price 
or decrease in service for customers to switch to a supplier without a local 
presence.  
28. The ACCC concluded that, without the divestiture undertaking, the proposed 
acquisition was likely to substantially lessen competition for the supply of GP 
HSMs in Australia.  


 
Page 5 of 6 
Payment HSMs 
29. Thales and Gemalto supply the vast majority of payment HSMs to Australian 
customers. Therefore, the ACCC was concerned that the removal of Gemalto 
could lead to higher prices or lower quality for payment HSMs. However, the 
ACCC considered that there were a number of factors that made a substantial 
lessening of competition unlikely for the supply of payment HSMs. 
30. Unlike for GP HSMs, Gemalto does not have a significant global presence in the 
supply of payment HSMs; it previously acquired a company with an already 
established presence in payment HSMs in Australia.  
31. Feedback the ACCC received from industry participants indicated that payment 
HSMs are generally considered a globally homogenous product, with product 
development and manufacture occurring in one or two countries from where they 
are distributed globally. There is a unique Australian standard for payment HSMs 
(AS2805), but in most cases this standard requires de-activating some 
functionality rather than any major redesign.  
32. In terms of product development and innovation, the ACCC considered that the 
other global players (including Utimaco, Atos, Ultra Electronics and Futurex), 
even if they are not present in Australia at the moment, were likely to place a 
competitive constraint on Thales (both globally and in Australia) in the longer 
term.   
33. The ACCC did not receive evidence of significant switching by customers 
between Thales and Gemalto in Australia. In the shorter term, the vast majority 
of sales in Australia are to existing customers via product refreshes or customers 
expanding their security networks, and these sales are largely uncontested.  
34. The ACCC also took into account that the majority of payment HSM sales are to 
large financial institutions which are likely to have some degree of bargaining 
power or purchase on a scale sufficient to sponsor a new entrant (for example, 
for an existing overseas manufacturer to commence supply into Australia). The 
ACCC also considered that barriers to entry for international suppliers to enter 
Australia are likely to decline over time. 
35. Although the proposed acquisition results in the removal of one of the two major 
suppliers of payment HSMs in Australia, the factors noted above led the ACCC 
to conclude that the proposed acquisition was unlikely to substantially lessen 
competition for the supply of payment HSMs in Australia.  
Undertaking 
36. In order to remedy the ACCC’s competition concerns in respect of GP HSMs, 
Thales provided a divestiture undertaking to the ACCC to comply with 
commitments it made to the European Commission to sell its global GP HSM 
business. The divesture undertaking requires that Thales obtains ACCC 
approval of the purchaser of the global GP HSM business, which reflects the 
global nature of the divestiture obligations and the GP HSM business itself. 


 
Page 6 of 6 
37. The ACCC’s purchaser approval process will take into account the ability and 
intention of the proposed purchaser to maintain and operate the business in 
Australia. 
38. The proposed acquisition required review by competition authorities in other 
jurisdictions and Thales received conditional clearance by the European 
Commission for the proposed acquisition on 11 December 2018.  
39. As a result of the divestiture undertaking and commitments to the European 
Commission, a new or established global supplier will acquire Thales’ nShield 
HSM brand and assets, including in Australia.  
Conclusion 
40. Based on the above analysis, the ACCC concluded that the proposed acquisition 
of Gemalto by Thales, taking into account the divestiture undertaking, would not 
be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in any market. 
 
