Cleanaway Waste Management Limited – proposed 
acquisition of Tox Free Solutions Limited 
Market definition 
The ACCC did not reach concluded views on market definition, but in 
assessing the proposed acquisition, the ACCC considered the following 
potential markets: 
 
 
Local council area markets for the collection of municipal waste.  
 
Regional or local council area markets for the collection of commercial 
and industrial (C&I) and/or construction and demolition (C&D) waste. 
 
Regional markets for solid waste post-collection services, including 
services provided at landfills, transfer stations and/or material recovery 
facilities. 
 
Regional markets for the collection of non-hazardous liquid waste, 
including drill muds, biosolids and/or wash and oily waters. 
 
Regional markets for processing non-hazardous liquid waste. 
 
State-based markets for the collection of hazardous waste. 
 
An eastern seaboard or state-based market for processing hazardous 
waste or sub-categories of hazardous waste based on EPA licensing 
codes for hazardous waste. 
 
Regional or local markets for the collection of medical waste (excluding 
used sharps collection). 
 
Regional markets for processing medical waste. 
 
Regional or local metropolitan markets for each of the various types of 
industrial services. 
 
Regional markets for the collection of used lubricating oil (ULO). 
 
Regional markets for processing and re-refining ULO. 
 
The ACCC also considered the broader impact of the proposed acquisition 
across multiple waste streams and geographic areas, as well as the effect 
of increased vertical integration resulting from the proposed acquisition.  
Competition analysis 
The ACCC concluded that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to meet the 
threshold of a substantial lessening of competition in any relevant market, 
although the proposed acquisition may have the effect of lessening 
competition in some waste streams. 
 
In reaching this conclusion, the ACCC considered that a combined 
Cleanaway-Tox Free is generally likely to be constrained by the availability 
of existing alternative suppliers in most relevant markets. Additionally, for 
waste collection and industrial services, the ACCC considered future entry 
or expansion by existing players in nearby or related markets will likely act 
as a competitive constraint. 
 
Conclusions in relation to specific markets 
 
The ACCC reached the following conclusions in relation to each potential 
relevant market: 
 
 
Municipal waste collection – numerous existing national, regional 
and local competitors in nearly all areas, and a credible threat of 
geographic expansion will likely constrain a combined Cleanaway-Tox 


Free in areas where there are fewer existing competitors. 
 
C&I and C&D waste collection – a number of existing competitors 
and potential future entry or expansion will likely constrain a combined 
Cleanaway-Tox Free. 
 
Solid waste post-collection – there is limited geographic overlap 
between the parties and there are also a number of competing landfills 
and C&D post-collection facilities that will likely constrain a combined 
Cleanaway-Tox Free. The ACCC also considered the potential for 
foreclosure of competing collectors, but formed the view that this is 
unlikely due to the availability of alternative facilities. 
 
Non-hazardous liquid waste collection – alternative suppliers in 
each area where the parties’ operations overlap, and potential future 
entry or expansion will likely constrain a combined Cleanaway-Tox 
Free.  
 
Non-hazardous liquid waste processing – alternative processing 
facilities, including those in other regions, will likely constrain a 
combined Cleanaway-Tox Free post-acquisition and prevent it from 
foreclosing rival collectors. 
 
Hazardous waste collection – the ACCC considered that the 
proposed acquisition may lessen competition, however alternative 
suppliers and potential suppliers in each area where the parties’ 
operations overlap will likely constrain a combined Cleanaway-Tox 
Free post-acquisition. As such, the lessening of competition is unlikely 
to be substantial. 
 
Hazardous waste processing – although barriers to entry are 
moderate to high, the ACCC considered that a number of alternative 
processors will constrain a combined Cleanaway-Tox Free. Further, the 
ACCC considered that a combined Cleanaway-Tox Free is unlikely to 
have the incentive to foreclose competing collectors, particularly given 
the scope to transport hazardous waste to facilities in other states. As 
such, the ACCC considered that any lessening of competition is 
unlikely to be substantial. 
 
Medical waste collection – Cleanaway currently has limited 
operations in this area and the ACCC identified a range of competitors 
that are likely to constrain a combined Cleanaway-Tox Free.  
 
Medical waste processing – there is currently no overlap in the 
parties’ operations and a combined Cleanaway-Tox Free is unlikely to 
substantially lessen competition in processing or have the incentive to 
foreclose competing collectors. 
 
Industrial services – the ACCC identified numerous existing national, 
regional and local competitors and found barriers to entry and 
expansion in relation to a number of services are not significant. 
 
Used lubricating oil collection – the ACCC considered that the 
proposed acquisition may lessen competition. However, the lessening 
is unlikely to meet the threshold of being substantial, due to the 
constraint imposed by a number of competitors, and the potential for 
potential future entry or expansion. 
 
Used lubricating oil processing – there is currently very limited 
overlap in the parties’ operations and a combined Cleanaway-Tox Free 
is unlikely to have the incentive to foreclose competing collectors. 
 
Increased vertical integration 
The ACCC also considered whether the increased vertical integration 
resulting from the proposed acquisition would give a combined Cleanaway-
Tox Free the ability and incentive to increase prices for access to their 
processing services, thus raising rivals’ costs and limiting rivals’ ability to 
compete for customers in waste collection. The proposed acquisition seeks 


to combine: 
 
 
The parties’ C&I collection operations and Cleanaway’s landfills 
 
The parties’ industrial services businesses, liquid waste collections and 
processing facilities, and Cleanaway’s landfills 
 
The parties’ non-hazardous liquid waste collection and processing 
facilities 
 
The parties’ hazardous waste collection and processing facilities 
 
The parties’ medical waste collection, Tox Free’s medical waste 
processing facilities and Cleanaway’s landfills, and 
 
The parties’ ULO collection and Cleanaway’s processing facilities. 
 
The ACCC considered that the increased vertical integration is unlikely to 
substantially lessen competition as a combined Cleanaway-Tox Free is 
unlikely to have the ability to foreclose rivals’ access to processing facilities 
due to existing alternatives. 
 
Presence across multiple waste streams 
The ACCC also considered the possibility that a combined Cleanaway-Tox 
Free would be able to leverage its position in one waste stream or 
geographic location where there are few viable alternatives in order to win 
customers in other waste streams or geographical locations where there 
are a larger number of competitors.  
 
The ACCC concluded that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to 
substantially lessen competition in this regard. It took into account the 
following factors in particular: 
 
 
There are other large suppliers that are present in multiple waste 
streams and geographical areas throughout Australia. 
 
Subcontracting is common, such that a competitor does not have to 
have its own operations in one waste stream and/or geographic area to 
compete for customers. 
 
Customers can, and do, disaggregate contracts if they are dissatisfied 
with pricing and/or service levels. 
 
 
