 
 
1 
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
tel: (02) 6243 1368
mergers@accc.gov.au
www.accc.gov.au
Our ref: 
IM-70024 
Contact officer: 
Georgia Zele / Rheya Shah  
Contact phone: 
02 9230 9103 / 02 9230 3815 
1 February 2019 
Dear Interested Party 
Re:  Request for submissions: Lochard Energy’s proposed acquisition of the 
Heytesbury Assets from Origin Energy 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
the proposed acquisition of the Heytesbury Assets (currently owned by Origin Energy 
Limited (Origin)) by Lochard Energy (Iona Operations) Pty Ltd (Lochard) (the proposed 
acquisition). 
Lochard operates the Iona gas storage facility near Port Campbell in Victoria, which is the 
only underground gas storage facility in Victoria. The Heytesbury Assets are depleted gas 
reservoirs which may have the potential for gas storage development for Victoria. Further 
details regarding the acquisition can be found at Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact on competition. In particular, we are 
seeking your views on: 
 
the impact on competition in the supply of gas storage in Victoria 
 
alternative suppliers of gas storage in Victoria 
 
the likelihood of another operator developing the Heytesbury Assets.  
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
Please provide your response by no later than 5pm on Friday 22 February 2019. 
Responses may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: Submission re: 
Lochard/Origin - attention Georgia Zele/Rheya Shah. If you would like to arrange a time to 
discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any questions about this letter, please 


 
 
2 
contact Georgia Zele on (02) 9230 9103 or Rheya Shah on (02) 9230 3815. 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public 
Mergers Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We will not 
disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by 
law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or during court proceedings) or 
in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010.  Where the 
ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, the ACCC will notify you in advance 
where possible so that you may have an opportunity to be heard.  Therefore, if the 
information provided to the ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our 
Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
Tom Leuner 
General Manager 
Merger Investigations 


 
 
3 
Attachment A 
Lochard  
Lochard is a midstream energy infrastructure business that owns and operates the 
Iona Gas Plant (Iona) and also provides natural gas processing services.  
Heytesbury Assets 
The Heytesbury Assets are depleted gas reservoirs which may have the potential for 
gas storage development for Victoria. A subsidiary of Origin Energy currently owns 
the Heytesbury Assets.   
Iona  
Iona is a large underground facility located near Port Campbell in Victoria, nearby to 
the Heytesbury Assets. It provides gas storage, processing and compression 
services, supplying gas directly into the Victorian gas market via the South West 
Pipeline and into the South Australian market via the South East Australia Gas 
Pipeline. Iona is primarily used by gas retailers to manage their seasonal base load. 
It has a capacity of approximately 26,000TJ. Lochard currently supplies gas storage 
services to Origin through Iona.  
The proposed acquisition  
Lochard is proposing to acquire all shares in a subsidiary of Origin Energy that holds 
the Heytesbury Assets. 
 
 


 
 
4 
Attachment B 
1. Please provide a brief description of your business or organisation.  
2. Please outline the reasons for your interest in the proposed acquisition, including 
any commercial relationship/s with either Lochard or Origin. 
3. Please provide a description of how your business uses Iona, and any other gas 
storage facilities in Victoria or eastern Australia. If possible, please provide 
information for your business setting out: 
a. the volumes of gas withdrawn from the market, and injection into the 
market using gas storage facilities during 2017-18FY, 
b. the volumes of gas stored in gas storage facilities, including Iona, during 
2017-18FY and  
c. whether your use of gas storage facilities, including Iona, changes over 
the course of a year, and if so, a description of this change.  
4. Please outline alternatives to the Iona and Heytesbury Assets for the supply of 
storage (or equivalent) services post-acquisition. In your answer, please 
consider: 
a. linepack (extra gas effectively stored in pipelines by increasing pressure) 
b. LNG facilities (APA’s Dandenong and potential future import facilities) 
c. other storage providers (Moomba storage and AGL’s storage assets 
including Silver Springs and Newcastle). 
5. Please comment on whether swing services, for example north-south gas flows 
from Queensland to Victoria during peak winter periods, provided by gas 
producers are an alternative to storage services such as those discussed in 
response to question 4.  
6. Please comment on the potential for the development of other gas storage 
options and alternatives to gas storage services in the future, including other 
underground facilities in Victoria, possible LNG import facilities and alternative 
swing services. In your answer, please consider the timeframe for this 
development to be operational and an estimate of costs.  
7. Please discuss whether it is viable for a company other than Lochard to develop 
the Heytesbury Assets into a gas storage facility. Please provide reasons for your 
answer. 
8. Please discuss the extent to which the Heytesbury Assets, if acquired by a 
company other than Lochard, would place competitive constraints on Iona in the 
supply of gas storage services. Please provide reasons for your answer.    
9. Please provide any additional information or comments, or identify other 
competition issues, that you consider relevant to the ACCC’s consideration of the 
proposed acquisition under section 50 of the Act.  
 
 
