 
 
1 
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
tel: (02) 6243 1368 
mergers@accc.gov.au
www.accc.gov.au
Our ref: 
IM-71393 
Contact officer: 
Neil Crighton / Janet Li 
Contact phone: 
03 9290 6949 / 02 9102 4024 
30 September 2021  
Dear Interested Party  
Request for submissions: Zoetis’ proposed acquisition of Jurox 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
the proposed acquisition of Betrola Pty Ltd (including its wholly owned subsidiary, Jurox Pty 
Ltd) (Jurox) by Zoetis Australia Research and Manufacturing Pty Ltd, a wholly owned 
subsidiary of Zoetis Inc. (Zoetis) (the proposed acquisition). 
Zoetis and Jurox operate globally and are involved in the development, manufacture and 
marketing of animal health products. Further details regarding the proposed acquisition can 
be found at Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact on competition. In particular, we are 
seeking your views on: 
• 
how closely Zoetis and Jurox compete with each other in the manufacture and 
supply of certain animal health products for companion animals and livestock,  
• 
the impact on price, innovation and service levels if the proposed acquisition 
proceeds, and  
• 
whether customers of Zoetis and Jurox will have access to alternative suppliers 
(actual and/or potential) in Australia after the proposed acquisition. 
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
Please provide your response by no later than Friday, 22 October 2021. Responses may 
be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: “Submission re: Zoetis/Jurox - attention 


 
2 
Neil Crighton / Janet Li". If you would like to arrange a time to discuss the matter with 
ACCC officers, or have any questions about this letter, please contact Neil Crighton on 03 
9290 6949 or Janet Li on 02 9102 4024. 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public 
Mergers Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We will not 
disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by 
law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or during court proceedings) or 
in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010.  Where the 
ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, the ACCC will notify you in advance 
where possible so that you may have an opportunity to be heard.  Therefore, if the 
information provided to the ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our 
Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
 
Daniel McCracken-Hewson 
General Manager 
Merger Investigations 


 
 
3 
Attachment A 
The proposed acquisition 
Zoetis proposes to acquire 100% of the issued share capital of Jurox. The proposed 
acquisition was announced on 4 August 2021. Completion is expected in the first 
quarter of 2022. 
Zoetis 
Zoetis is a public company listed on the New York Stock Exchange.  
Zoetis operates in global development, manufacturing and marketing of veterinary 
medicines and vaccines for companion animals and livestock.  
Zoetis’ operating entities in Australia include Zoetis Australia Pty Ltd, Zoetis Australia 
Research & Manufacturing Pty Ltd and Virtual Recall Pty Ltd. Zoetis’ operations in 
Australia comprise research and development, manufacturing, and sales/marketing.  
Zoetis’ key products sold in Australia include ProHeart SR-12, Cytopoint, Apoquel, 
Gudair, Glanvac range and Ultravac. 
Jurox  
Jurox is a private family owned veterinary pharmaceutical company based in Australia.  
Jurox researches, develops, manufactures and sells a range of over-the-counter (OTC) 
products and veterinary medicines for livestock producers, veterinarians and pet 
owners. Jurox’s products are marketed in over 20 countries globally. 
Jurox’s products are manufactured at Jurox’s plant in Rutherford, New South Wales.  
One of Jurox’s key products is Alfaxan, an injectable induction and maintenance 
anaesthetic for dogs and cats. Other products sold in Australia include Q-Drench, 
Tricin, Juraclox DC, Maxalac, Popantel, Amacin, Strikeforce-S and U-seal. 
Areas of overlap  
In Australia, Zoetis and Jurox both supply a range of OTC and prescription products for 
companion animals and livestock, including: 
Products for livestock 
Intramammary antibiotics for lactating cows 
Prescription  
Intramammary antibiotics for dry cows 
Prescription 
Teat sealants for cows 
OTC 
Endoparasiticides and endectocides for sheep 
OTC 
Endoparasiticides and endectocides (containing macrocyclic lactone) for cattle 
OTC 
Ectoparasiticides for cattle 
Typically OTC  
Injectable macrolides for production animals 
Prescription  


 
4 
Products for companion animals 
Pre-anaesthetics and sedatives (opioids) 
Prescription 
Pre-anaesthetics, sedatives and short-term anaesthetics (non-opioids)  
Prescription 
Antidotes for short-term pre-anaesthetic sedatives 
Prescription  
Long-acting injectable corticosteroids 
Prescription  
Non-steroidal anti-inflammatories 
Prescription  
Oral penicillin 
Prescription  
Injectable penicillin 
Prescription  
Oral canine intestinal all wormers 
OTC 
Oral horse worming 
OTC  
 
 
 


 
5 
Attachment B 
The following questions have been separated into categories. However, you can 
answer any question from any category. 
Questions for all market participants 
1. Describe your business or organisation, the reasons for your interest in the 
proposed acquisition, and any commercial relationship(s) with Zoetis and/or Jurox. 
a. If you purchase animal health products from Zoetis and/or Jurox, describe: 
i. the name of the product(s) you purchase from each party, and 
ii. the intended use for each product. 
b. If you supply animal health products to Zoetis and/or Jurox in Australia, 
describe: 
i. the name of the product(s) you supply to each party, and 
ii. the intended use for each product. 
c. If you compete with Zoetis and/or Jurox to supply animal health products in 
Australia, describe: 
i. the name of the product(s) you supply,  
ii. the intended use for each product,  
iii. which Zoetis and/or Jurox product(s) your product(s) competes with, and 
iv. whether your product is originator, generic, white label or private label. 
2. Describe the extent to which Zoetis’ and Jurox’s products can be substituted for 
each other. Comment on any similarities in price, efficacy, active 
ingredients/chemicals, dosage of active ingredients, frequency and method of 
delivery (e.g. topical, collar, oral, bath, injection, inhalation), type of animal being 
used on, type of health issue treated, duration of efficacy, duration of withdrawal 
period, or any other considerations when choosing animal health products. 
3. For the product(s) identified in your response to question 1 and/or 2: 
a. Describe the extent to which alternative products can be substituted for Zoetis’ 
and/or Jurox’s products, and identify the manufacturers/suppliers of those 
products. Consider any similarities in the factors outlined in question 2, and 
any other relevant factors such as brand recognition, manufacturer/supplier 
service standards, or manufacturer/supplier geographic areas of supply. 
b. Describe the extent to which generic, white label or private label products can 
be substituted for Zoetis’ and/or Jurox’s products, and identify the 
manufacturers/suppliers of those products. Consider any similarities in the 
factors outlined in question 2, and any other relevant factors such as whether 
the original branded version of a patented product is favoured, or any 
differences in formulation or application. 
c. Describe the extent to which human equivalent health products can be 
substituted for Zoetis’ and/or Jurox’s products, and identify the 
manufacturers/suppliers of those products. Consider any similarities in the 
factors outlined in question 2, and any other relevant factors such as whether 
an animal health product is favoured, or any differences in formulation or 
application. 


 
6 
4. Comment on whether the products of Zoetis, Jurox, or any other suppliers identified 
in your response to question 3, have particular advantages which are not available 
from existing products. Provide specific examples. 
5. Identify any vigorous or effective competitors in the animal health products industry, 
and comment on whether this varies for different active ingredients or intended use 
of the product. Consider factors such as price discounting, promotional activity, 
product innovation or new technologies. Provide specific examples. 
6. Comment on any industry practices, developments or trends that may impact 
competition in the supply of animal health products. Consider factors such as 
rotation between different chemical classes to mitigate resistance (e.g. for 
parasiticides), declining use of specific products (e.g. antibiotics), changes to 
therapeutic approaches, or changes to regulatory requirements. Provide specific 
examples. 
7. Describe the likelihood of new entry or expansion by existing suppliers if the 
combined Zoetis/Jurox increased prices by 5-10% on a particular animal health 
product. Consider factors such as costs and timeframes for entry or expansion, 
regulatory requirements, manufacturing capacity (including the ability to use 
contract manufacturers), research and development ability, patents or the extent of 
brand loyalty, or access to key inputs and distribution channels. Provide examples 
of any recent new entry or expansion. 
8. Comment on the extent to which animal health products can be imported into 
Australia, particularly any products that are comparable to those supplied by Zoetis 
or Jurox. Consider factors such as importation regulations, local registration 
requirements, or access to contract packing services and distribution channels. 
Provide specific examples.  
Questions for customers of animal health products  
9. Describe how you procure animal health products from Zoetis, Jurox, and/or other 
suppliers (e.g. via buying groups, tender processes, or other methods), the extent 
to which you source products from multiple suppliers, and whether your purchasing 
process varies for different products. Provide specific examples.  
10. Identify any Zoetis or Jurox animal health products which are ‘must have’ for your 
business. If the proposed acquisition proceeds, comment on whether your ability to 
access important products from the combined Zoetis/Jurox will be affected. 
11. Identify the extent to which Zoetis or Jurox bundle the supply of animal health 
products, or offer discounts, rebates or volume-based incentives if you acquire 
multiple products. Provide specific examples.  
12. Describe your ability to switch between suppliers of animal health products, 
including any obstacles to switching (e.g. contractual restrictions), and whether this 
varies for different products. Provide specific examples. 
13. Describe your ability to self-supply any of the animal health products you currently 
acquire from either Zoetis or Jurox, such as how easy or difficult it is to contract an 
alternative supplier to manufacture or formulate generic alternatives, and whether 
this varies for different products. Provide specific examples. 
14. For each of the animal health product(s) that you currently acquire from Zoetis 
and/or Jurox, describe how you would respond if the combined Zoetis/Jurox 
increased prices or decreased service standards post-acquisition. 


 
7 
Other information or competition issues 
15. Provide any additional information or comments, or identify other competition 
issues, that you consider relevant to the ACCC’s consideration of the proposed 
acquisition. 
