Page 1 of 13 
 
Public Competition Assessment 
26 October 2022 
Zoetis - proposed acquisition of Jurox  
 
The ACCC’s decision  
1. 
On 15 September 2022, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission 
announced its decision not to oppose the proposed acquisition by Zoetis Inc. 
(Zoetis)1 of Betrola Investments Pty Ltd, and indirectly, Jurox Pty Ltd (Jurox) 
(the proposed acquisition) after accepting a section 87B undertaking to divest 
products supplied by Jurox (the Undertaking). 
2. 
Section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the Act) prohibits 
acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of 
substantially lessening competition in any market. The ACCC considers that the 
proposed acquisition, in the absence of the Undertaking, is likely to have the 
effect of substantially lessening competition in contravention of section 50. 
However, the ACCC considers that the Undertaking offered by Zoetis will 
address the ACCC’s competition concerns in this matter.  
3. 
The ACCC considers that, without the Undertaking, the proposed acquisition 
would be likely to substantially lessen competition in the supply of: 
a) intramammary antibiotics for lactating cows 
b) intramammary antibiotics for dry cows, and  
c) teat sealants for cows. 
4. 
The ACCC considers that in each of these markets, Jurox is one of Zoetis’ 
closest competitors, that there is a high degree of market concentration with few 
alternative suppliers, and that barriers to entry and expansion are high. Zoetis 
offered the Undertaking to address the ACCC’s competition concerns in these 
markets.  
 
1  
The acquisition is occurring through its wholly owned subsidiary, Zoetis Australia Research and 
Manufacturing Pty Ltd.  


 
Page 2 of 13 
5. 
The ACCC has concluded that the proposed acquisition would not have the 
effect, or be likely to have the effect, of substantially lessening competition in any 
other market, including the supply of:  
a) endoparasiticides and endectocides for sheep, and  
b) companion animal products in the following five areas: 
o opioid-based pre-anaesthetics and sedatives  
o non-opioid-based pre-anaesthetics, sedatives and short-term 
anaesthetics  
o antidotes for short-term anaesthetics and sedatives 
o long-acting injectable corticosteroids, and 
o injectable penicillin. 
6. 
The ACCC also considered the potential impacts on competition if Jurox’s 
Alfaxan product was to be bundled with Zoetis’ existing products.  
7. 
This Public Competition Assessment outlines reasons for the decision by the 
ACCC not to oppose the proposed acquisition, taking into account the 
Undertaking. 
8. 
ACCC public competition assessments are subject to the following qualifications: 
a) The ACCC considers each transaction on a case-by-case basis and so the 
analysis and decision outlined in one assessment will not necessarily 
reflect the ACCC’s view of another transaction. 
b) As assessments are relatively brief and do not refer to confidential 
information, assessments do not necessarily set out all of the issues and 
information considered by the ACCC.  
The parties and the proposed transaction  
Zoetis 
9. 
Zoetis is a public company listed on the New York Stock Exchange. Zoetis 
operates in global development, manufacturing and marketing of veterinary 
medicines and vaccines for companion animals and livestock.  
10. Zoetis’ operating entities in Australia include Zoetis Australia Pty Ltd, Zoetis 
Australia Research and Manufacturing Pty Ltd and Virtual Recall Pty Ltd. Zoetis’ 
operations in Australia comprise research and development, manufacturing, and 
sales/marketing. 
Jurox 
11. Jurox is a private family-owned veterinary pharmaceutical company based in 
Australia. Jurox researches, develops, manufactures and sells a range of over-
the-counter products and veterinary medicines for livestock producers, 


 
Page 3 of 13 
veterinarians and pet owners. Jurox’s products are marketed in over 20 
countries, and most are manufactured at Jurox’s plant in Rutherford, New South 
Wales.  
The proposed transaction 
12. Zoetis Australia Research and Manufacturing Pty Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary 
of Zoetis Inc., proposes to acquire 100 per cent of the issued share capital of 
Betrola Investments Pty Ltd, including its wholly owned subsidiary, Jurox. 
Market inquiries 
13. The ACCC conducted market inquiries with a range of industry participants, 
including veterinary practitioners, parasitologists, wholesalers, resellers, 
distributors, veterinary buying groups, competitors, potential competitors, input 
suppliers, industry bodies, other regulatory agencies and other interested 
parties.  
14. The ACCC consulted on both the substantive competition issues and the 
Undertaking. 
Industry background 
15. On 17 February 2022, the ACCC published a Statement of Issues,2 which 
included information (paragraphs 20-37) about the animal health industry in 
Australia regarding: 
a) the categorisation of production animals (livestock) and companion animals 
b) differences in the supply of prescription and over-the-counter (OTC) 
products 
c) the Australian Pesticides and Veterinary Medicines Authority (APVMA) 
licensing requirements for manufacturers 
d) pioneer and generic products 
e) the registration of animal health products with the APVMA 
f) animal health product suppliers in Australia, and 
g) key customers in Australia. 
Market definition 
16. The ACCC’s starting point for considering which markets will be affected by a 
proposed acquisition is to identify the areas of overlap between the products 
and/or services actually or potentially supplied by the merger parties. The ACCC 
then considers other actual or potential suppliers of those products and/or 
services, as well as what other products and/or services constitute sufficiently 
 
2  
See ACCC, Zoetis Australia Research and Manufacturing Pty Ltd – Betrola Investments Pty Ltd 
(including Jurox Pty Ltd). 


 
Page 4 of 13 
close substitutes to provide a significant source of constraint on the merged 
entity. 
17. In this matter, the ACCC focused its consideration on the markets for each of the 
9 key areas of overlap separately. Table 1 contains a product list for these areas 
of overlap. 
Table 1: Significant areas of overlap between Zoetis and Jurox  
Product area 
Category 
Zoetis products 
Jurox products 
Intramammary antibiotics 
for lactating cows 
Livestock 
Clavulox LA 
Ampiclox LC 
Mastalone 
Maxalac LC 
Orbenin LA 
 
Intramammary antibiotics 
for dry cows 
Livestock 
Orbenin Enduro 
Ampiclox DC 
 
Juraclox LA 
 
Maxalac DC 
Teat sealants 
Livestock 
Teatseal 
U-Seal 
Endoparasiticides and 
endectocides for sheep 
Livestock  
Startect 
Napfix 
Sheepguard Oral 
Drench 
Paramectin 
Sheepguard long 
acting injection 
Pentamox 
 
Q-drench 
Opioid-based pre-
anaesthetics and sedatives 
Companion 
animals 
Torbugesic 
Buprelieve 
 
Butordyne 
 
Methodyne 
Non-opioid-based pre-
anaesthetics, sedatives and 
short-term anaesthetics 
Companion 
animals 
Domitor 
Dexdomitor 
 
Medetate 
Antidotes for short-term pre-
anaesthetic sedatives 
Companion 
animals 
Antisedan 
Antipam 
Long-acting injectable 
corticosteroids 
Companion 
animals 
Depo-Medrol 
Triamolone-
Forte 
Injectable penicillin 
Companion 
animals 
Clavulox Ready 
to use injection 
Moxylan long 
acting injection  
 
Moxylan ready 
to use injection 
Competition analysis in respect of the supply of 
intramammary antibiotics for lactating cows, 
intramammary antibiotics for dry cows and teat sealants 
Relevant markets 
18. For the purpose of analysing the proposed acquisition, the ACCC considers that 
the supply of intramammary antibiotics for lactating cows, intramammary 


 
Page 5 of 13 
antibiotics for dry cows and teat sealants for cows each form separate, national 
markets.  
19. Intramammary antibiotics for lactating cows are prescription-only products 
prescribed by veterinarians to treat bovine mastitis, a bacterial infection of the 
mammary glands (glands within the udders) of dairy cattle during lactation. 
Bovine mastitis can reduce milk quality and yield by causing clot formation. 
Intramammary antibiotics are administered via infusion (injection) into the 
mammary glands. 
20. Intramammary antibiotics for dry cows are similar to those for lactating cows, 
except they are formulated for cows that are between lactations.  
21. Teat sealants protect dry cows and heifers from new intramammary mastitis 
infections by creating a physical seal against bacteria entering the teat. Teat 
sealants are administered via infusion and are OTC products that are generally 
available without a prescription through specialty wholesalers, rural resellers and 
veterinarians.  
Product dimension 
22. As part of its investigation, the ACCC considered the extent to which customers 
could switch from using intramammary antibiotics to using teat sealants in the 
event of a sufficient price increase. The ACCC received information that 
suggests that use of intramammary antibiotics is declining due to broader 
concerns with overuse of antibiotics in general, and that the use of teat sealants 
is increasing. 
23. However, feedback from market participants consistently indicated that there is 
limited substitutability between intramammary antibiotics for lactating cows, 
intramammary antibiotics for dry cows and teat sealants as they are used by 
farmers for distinct purposes. For example, teat sealants may reduce the need 
for antibiotics by decreasing the risk of infection, but cannot replace antibiotics in 
the treatment of existing infections.  
Geographic dimension 
24. The ACCC also considered whether the geographic scope of the relevant 
markets is narrower than Australia-wide. However, the ACCC did not receive any 
information that suggested that suppliers or customers are limited by geographic 
factors in their ability to supply or acquire these products or that there are 
differences in the requirements of farmers and their livestock across different 
regions of Australia. 
Market concentration and closeness of competition 
25. The ACCC considers that the markets for the supply of intramammary antibiotics 
for lactating cows, intramammary antibiotics for dry cows and teat sealants for 
cows are each highly concentrated with few alternative suppliers, and that Zoetis 
and Jurox compete closely in each market. 
26. The ACCC’s investigation indicated that the proposed acquisition would result in 
Zoetis having a high market share in each of these three markets and would: 


 
Page 6 of 13 
a) combine the two largest suppliers of intramammary antibiotics for lactating 
cows and remove Zoetis’ closest competitor 
b) combine two of the four largest suppliers of intramammary antibiotics for 
dry cows and remove one of Zoetis’ closest competitors, and 
c) combine two of the three largest suppliers of teat sealants for cows and 
remove one of Zoetis’ closest competitors. 
27. The ACCC’s investigation found that Zoetis’ strong position in the three markets 
comes in large part from it supplying pioneer products, and the strong brand 
equity associated with this.  
28. The ACCC found that Jurox competes closely with Zoetis despite offering a 
range of generic products. The ACCC’s investigation indicated that product 
quality is important to farmers, and that quality can vary greatly between generic 
products and can be a meaningful point of differentiation.  
29. The ACCC considers that, while alternative suppliers may offer products that are 
similar to Jurox’s products, including other generic products, in each of the three 
markets, these suppliers do not provide as strong a competitive constraint on 
Zoetis as Jurox does. The ACCC found that, in these markets, customers often 
prefer Jurox products over other generics due to factors including Jurox’s high-
quality products (whether perceived or actual), reliable supply and Australian 
ownership and manufacturing.  
30. The ACCC’s investigation found that aside from Zoetis and Jurox there are few 
alternative suppliers in each of these markets. MSD, Elanco and Norbrook 
supply products in one or more of these markets, and some other suppliers (with 
very minimal market shares) also supply generic products in one or more of 
these markets. However, as mentioned above, the ACCC’s investigation 
indicated that these alternative suppliers are generally not perceived as being as 
strong as Zoetis or Jurox. Accordingly, the ACCC considers that alternative 
suppliers are unlikely to provide a significant constraint on Zoetis post-
acquisition.  
Barriers to entry and expansion 
31. The ACCC considers that the threat of new entry or expansion on a scale 
sufficient to constrain Zoetis post-acquisition is unlikely in each of the three 
markets.  
32. The ACCC’s view is that barriers to entry and expansion are high for 
intramammary antibiotics for lactating and dry cows and (although to a slightly 
lesser extent) teat sealants. Specifically, the ACCC’s investigation found that:  
a) developing products can be expensive and time consuming, and requires 
technical expertise 
b) establishing manufacturing facilities requires significant capital 
investment, time and costs to meet APVMA regulatory requirements 
c) the products must be produced in a sterile manufacturing facility 


 
Page 7 of 13 
d) the manufacturing process requires a high degree of technical expertise, 
capital-intensive technology and equipment, and  
e) there are additional costs and time associated with the APVMA product 
registration process. 
33. The ACCC’s investigation indicated that these high costs of developing and 
manufacturing (either in-house or outsourced), and the relatively small size of 
the Australian market makes it difficult for suppliers to achieve the required 
economies of scale.  
Competition conclusions  
34. The ACCC concluded that, without the Undertaking, the proposed acquisition is 
likely to substantially lessen competition in each of the three markets.  
Competition analysis in respect of the supply of 
endoparasiticides and endectocides for sheep 
Relevant market 
35. The ACCC considers that the relevant market includes all endoparasiticide and 
endectocide products for sheep (sheep parasiticides) supplied in Australia. 
36. Sheep parasiticides are used to treat and control harmful parasites in sheep and 
may be administered via drenching (orally), by subcutaneous (under the skin) 
injection or applied topically, depending on the product. Endoparasiticides treat 
internal parasites, such as roundworms, tapeworms and flukes, while 
endectocides treat both internal parasites and external parasites, such as flies, 
ticks, lice and mites. Sheep parasiticides are OTC products available without a 
prescription and are commonly sold to farmers by agricultural resellers, although 
veterinarians may also provide product selection advice to farmers.  
37. Parasites may develop resistance to parasiticides over time, as the proportion of 
parasites in the population that can tolerate otherwise lethal doses of active 
ingredients increases through reproduction. Some resistance-prone parasites 
are found throughout Australia while others are found more frequently in certain 
locations.  
38. As part of its review, the ACCC considered whether the relevant market should 
be segmented into distinct geographic locations based on the prevalence of 
parasiticide resistance (particularly in relation to barber’s pole worm). 
39. Ultimately, for the purpose of assessing the proposed acquisition, the ACCC 
formed the view that the market for the supply of sheep parasiticides is national. 
The ACCC’s investigation indicated that managing parasiticide resistance 
involves a range of complex variables, and that, while there may be some 
regional variances in the demand for sheep parasiticides, these are unlikely to 
amount to separate geographic markets. 


 
Page 8 of 13 
Market concentration and closeness of competition 
40. At the time the Statement of Issues was published, the ACCC considered that 
Zoetis’ Startect and Jurox’s Q-drench products were two of the three most 
effective products at managing parasiticide resistance, in particular in relation to 
barber’s pole worm (the third product being Elanco’s Zolvix Plus product).  
41. However, further investigation strongly indicated that Zoetis’ Startect and 
Elanco’s Zolvix Plus are the two most effective products on the market for 
managing parasiticide resistance. These products contain the two newest active 
ingredients (which contain resistance breaking properties), are still on patent, 
and are priced significantly above other products, including Q-drench. The 
investigation indicated that Jurox’s Q-drench is unlikely to be as effective as 
these two products. Q-drench is significantly older than Startect and Zolvix Plus, 
and resistance to closantel (the active ingredient in Q-drench that targets 
barber’s pole worm) is starting to become widespread. 
42. The ACCC’s investigation found that, while Q-drench is the only product on the 
market with four active ingredients, it is not materially more effective at managing 
resistance in relation to barber’s pole worm than numerous triple-active products, 
including Virbac’s Tridectin, Boehringer Ingelheim’s Triguard, MSD’s Trifecta and 
Elanco’s Pyrimide.  
43. Further, the investigation found that, given the fourth active ingredient in Q-
drench (closantel) targets barber’s pole worm, there are many products 
(including the above triple-active products) that are as effective as Q-drench at 
managing resistance in regions where barber’s pole worm is not prevalent.  
44. As such, the ACCC considers that there are several alternative suppliers that will 
continue to provide a significant competitive constraint on Zoetis 
post-acquisition. Accordingly, the ACCC considers that the proposed acquisition 
and removal of Jurox will not significantly alter the level of competitive constraint 
imposed on Zoetis in the supply of sheep parasiticides. 
Competition conclusions 
45. The ACCC has concluded that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to 
substantially lessen competition in the supply of endoparasiticides and 
endectocides for sheep in Australia. 
Competition analysis in respect of various companion 
animal products 
46. The ACCC considered the effect of the proposed acquisition on competition for 
the supply of the following five companion animal product types:  
a) 
opioid-based pre-anaesthetics and sedatives – administered via injection 
before anaesthesia is induced to calm the animal. 
b) 
non-opioid-based pre-anaesthetics, sedatives, and short-term 
anaesthetics – administered via injection before anaesthesia is induced 
and includes short-term anaesthetics that are not based on opioids.  


 
Page 9 of 13 
c) 
antidotes for short-term pre-anaesthetic sedatives – administered via 
injection to reverse the effects of sedation.  
d) 
long-acting injectable corticosteroids – administered mainly via injection, 
and sometimes orally, to suppress inflammation.  
e) 
injectable penicillin – administered via injection to treat infections caused 
by bacteria and organisms that are sensitive to penicillin. 
47. These products are not available to consumers (pet owners) and are purchased 
by veterinarians from speciality wholesalers or directly from manufacturers. 
Veterinarians administer these products to companion animals. Opioid products 
are more heavily regulated than other prescription products. 
Opioid-based pre-anaesthetics and sedatives  
48. The ACCC was initially concerned that the proposed acquisition would reduce 
the largest suppliers of opioid-based pre-anaesthetics and sedatives for 
companion animals in Australia from three to two.  
49. However, the ACCC’s investigation indicated that market participants do not 
have significant concerns in relation to this market, and that Zoetis has a very 
small market presence such that the incremental increase in market share post-
acquisition would be insignificant.  
50. On this basis, the ACCC has concluded that the proposed acquisition would not 
be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in the supply of 
opioid-based pre-anaesthetics and sedatives.  
Non-opioid-based pre-anaesthetics, sedatives and short-term 
anaesthetics, and antidotes for short term pre-anaesthetic sedatives  
51. The ACCC’s investigation indicated that non-opioid-based sedatives and 
antidotes are related products. 
52. The ACCC was initially concerned that the proposed acquisition would reduce 
the suppliers of non-opioid-based pre-anaesthetics and sedatives for companion 
animals in Australia from four to three, and the suppliers of antidotes from three 
to two.  
53. However, following further investigation, market feedback indicated that there is 
a strong degree of generic competition in the supply of these products, and that 
Zoetis will continue to be constrained by generic manufacturers post-acquisition.  
54. Accordingly, the ACCC has concluded that the proposed acquisition is not likely 
to substantially lessen competition in the supply of non-opioid-based 
pre-anaesthetics and antidotes due predominantly to the presence of generic 
products.  


 
Page 10 of 13 
Long-acting injectable corticosteroids  
55. The ACCC had preliminary concerns that the proposed acquisition would result 
in a reduction of the largest suppliers of long-acting injectable corticosteroids for 
companion animals in Australia from three to two. 
56. However, there were not significant market concerns expressed to the ACCC in 
relation to the supply of injectable corticosteroids. Market feedback indicated that 
the use of injectable corticosteroids is in long-term decline and its primary use 
has largely been replaced by more specific treatments such as products 
designed to treat specific skin conditions in cats and dogs.  
57. The ACCC’s investigation also indicated that human health products such as 
Kenacort and Pfizer’s Depo-Medrol (both of which are supplied by the leading 
veterinarian wholesalers) are alternatives to Zoetis and Jurox’s products and are 
likely to provide a competitive constraint on Zoetis post-acquisition.  
58. Accordingly, the ACCC has concluded that the proposed acquisition is not likely 
to substantially lessen competition in the supply of long-acting injectable 
corticosteroids for companion animals as suppliers of specific treatments and 
human products are likely to provide meaningful competitive constraints on 
Zoetis post-acquisition.  
Injectable penicillin  
59. The ACCC was initially concerned that the proposed acquisition would result in a 
reduction of the suppliers of injectable penicillin for companion animals in 
Australia from three to two. 
60. However, the ACCC’s investigation indicated that there are a number of other 
competitors in the market who would continue to act as a constraint on Zoetis 
post-acquisition. Market feedback indicated that, in most instances, there is a 
wide variety of alternative products available (in particular, oral penicillin), and 
that injectable penicillin is only used in rare cases, such as the treatment of 
tetanus. 
61. Further, the ACCC considers that Zoetis and Jurox are not particularly close 
competitors as market feedback suggested that their products have different 
primary uses and are only partially substitutable. Zoetis’ Clavulox injection is 
specifically for companion animals, while Jurox’s Moxylan product is primarily for 
livestock, although it can be used on companion animals. 
62. Accordingly, the ACCC has concluded that the proposed acquisition is not likely 
to substantially lessen competition in the market for the supply of injectable 
penicillin for companion animals as there are sufficient alternatives available that 
will impose a competitive constraint on Zoetis post-acquisition.  
Competition analysis in respect of anti-competitive 
bundling using Alfaxan 
63. The ACCC also considered whether the proposed acquisition would have the 
effect, or be likely to have the effect, of substantially lessening competition in any 


 
Page 11 of 13 
relevant market due to the bundling by Zoetis of Jurox’s Alfaxan product with or 
including Zoetis’ existing products.  
64. Alfaxan is a popular induction agent for anaesthesia and an injectable 
anaesthetic for companion animals. The ACCC’s investigation indicated that 
Alfaxan accounts for approximately 85 to 95 per cent of injectable anaesthetics 
administered by veterinarians in Australia, and that there are no generic versions 
available. 
65. The ACCC considered whether, after the proposed acquisition, Zoetis would 
have the ability and incentive to bundle Alfaxan with products in Zoetis’ existing 
range, and whether any bundling strategy would be likely to result in a 
substantial lessening of competition in any market.  
66. The ACCC focused its review on the products it considered would be most likely 
to be used by Zoetis in a bundling strategy alongside Alfaxan. These products 
included Zoetis’ products in the five companion animal areas of overlap 
discussed in the section above (overlapping products), as well as the following 
four products for which Jurox does not have an equivalent offering (non-
overlapping products): 
a) Apoquel and Cytopoint – for the treatment of itching associated with allergic 
or atopic dermatitis in dogs. 
b) Cerenia – for the treatment or prevention of nausea and vomiting in dogs 
and cats.  
c) Convenia – a broad-spectrum antibiotic for the treatment of skin infections, 
dermatitis and urinary tract infections in dogs and cats. 
67. The ACCC focused its review on the likelihood and impact of the merged Zoetis 
business offering discounts on Alfaxan on the condition that customers also 
acquired other Zoetis products. The ACCC considered whether Alfaxan would 
provide Zoetis with the ability and incentive to foreclose rival suppliers, and 
whether such a strategy could foreclose a sufficient share of any market.  
68. For the overlapping products and Cerenia, the ACCC’s investigation indicated 
that even if Zoetis had the incentive and ability to bundle Alfaxan, such a 
strategy would be unlikely to foreclose rival suppliers of these products. This was 
because a bundling strategy would be unlikely to reduce the scale and hence 
production efficiency of Zoetis’ competitors.  
69. The ACCC’s investigation also indicated that Zoetis would not have the incentive 
to engage in a bundled discount strategy for Alfaxan with Apoquel and Cytopoint. 
This was because the patents of these products have recently expired and, in 
the face of expected generic entry, it would likely be prohibitively expensive for 
Zoetis to provide sufficient bundled discounts on Alfaxan to deter or hinder new 
entrants.  
70. Further, the investigation indicated that Zoetis was unlikely to have the incentive 
to bundle Alfaxan with Convenia. This was because Convenia is not typically the 
first choice of treatment by veterinarians and is unlikely to be promoted in this 
manner by Zoetis. Further, if Zoetis did bundle Alfaxan with this product, the 


 
Page 12 of 13 
ACCC’s investigation indicated that this would not be likely to substantially 
lessen competition in any market.  
The Undertaking 
71. In order to address the ACCC’s competition concerns in relation to the supply of 
intramammary antibiotics for lactating cows, intramammary antibiotics for dry 
cows and teat sealants for cows, Zoetis offered the Undertaking pursuant to 
section 87B of the Act. The ACCC spoke to a range of market participants for 
feedback on the Undertaking, including potential purchasers. 
72. The ACCC considers that the Undertaking will address its competition concerns 
with the proposed acquisition as it requires Zoetis to divest all of Jurox’s 
products in the markets of concern to an ACCC-approved purchaser.  
73. A copy of the Undertaking is available on the ACCC mergers register and 
undertakings register. A brief summary of the Undertaking is set out below: 
a) Zoetis will divest the following products which are currently supplied by 
Jurox (the Divestiture Products) to an ACCC-approved purchaser: 
o Ampiclox LC and Ampiclox DC 
o Juraclox LA 
o Maxalac LC and Maxalac DC, and 
o U-Seal. 
b) At the time the Undertaking was accepted, the ACCC approved AVet 
Health Pty Ltd (AVet) as the Approved Purchaser of the Divestiture 
Products. 
c) The divestiture includes the non-exclusive right to manufacture the 
Divestiture Products, and the exclusive right to market and supply the 
Divestiture Products in Australia. 
d) The divestiture will include all necessary assets comprising of intellectual 
property rights, regulatory approvals, data, customer records, business 
records, inventory, contracts and promotional material which relate to the 
Divestiture Products in Australia. 
e) At the option of the ACCC-approved purchaser, Zoetis must: 
o supply any technical assistance 
o transfer necessary personnel 
o ensure the continued supply of goods and services 
which are necessary for the operation of the Divestiture Products, and 
which are required by the purchaser to establish itself as a competitor in 
the relevant markets. 


 
Page 13 of 13 
f) Zoetis must appoint an ACCC-approved Independent Manager to manage 
the Divestiture Products from completion of the proposed acquisition until 
divestiture of the Divestiture Products. 
g) Zoetis must appoint an ACCC-approved Independent Auditor to audit 
Zoetis’ compliance with the Undertaking. 
Conclusion 
74. Based on the above analysis, the ACCC concluded that the proposed acquisition 
of Jurox by Zoetis, in the absence of the Undertaking, would be likely to have the 
effect of substantially lessening competition in the supply of intramammary 
antibiotics for lactating cows, intramammary antibiotics for dry cows and teat 
sealants for cows.  
75. However, the ACCC considers that the Undertaking addresses the competition 
concerns raised such that the proposed acquisition would not be likely to have 
the effect of substantially lessening competition in any market in Australia. 
