 
 
Our ref:  
IM-72359, IM-72371,  
IM-72372, IM-72373  
 
22 March 2024 
Dear Interested Party 
Request for submissions: Icon’s proposed acquisitions in the radiation oncology 
sector 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 4 
proposed acquisitions by the Icon Group (Icon): 
1. 
a joint venture with Cyberknife Australia Pty Ltd (Cyberknife Australia) to establish up 
to 6 new radiation oncology clinics 
2. 
acquisition of a lease to establish a new radiation oncology clinic at Ramsay Health 
Care’s (Ramsay) at St Andrew’s Ipswich Private Hospital in Queensland (St Andrew’s 
Ipswich) 
3. 
acquisition of a lease to establish a new radiation oncology clinic at St Vincent’s 
Private Hospital Northside in Chermside, Queensland (St Vincent’s Chermside) 
4. 
acquisition of a lease to establish a new radiation oncology clinic at the St John of God 
Geelong Hospital in Victoria (St John of God Geelong) 
(together, the Proposed Acquisitions). 
Further details about Icon and the Proposed Acquisitions are provided at Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigations are focused on the impact on competition. In particular, we are 
seeking your views on: 
• 
the demand for, and current supply of, radiation oncology services in each region 
impacted by the Proposed Acquisitions  
• 
the likely impact of each of the Proposed Acquisitions on prices and/or services in the 
supply of radiation oncology services 
• 
the extent to which each of the Proposed Acquisitions is likely to raise barriers to entry 
and expansion for alternative private providers of radiation oncology services 
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
tel: (02) 6243 1368 
mergers@accc.gov.au
www.accc.gov.au


 
 
• 
whether new entry or expansion in the supply of radiation oncology services would 
constrain Icon from altering its pricing and/or service levels.  
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
Please provide your response by 10 April 2024 via email with the title: Submission re: Icon 
Group’s proposed acquisitions. If you require more time to respond, please let us know. 
If you would like to arrange a time to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any 
questions about this letter, please contact mergers@accc.gov.au. 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public Mergers 
Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC treats sensitive information it receives during a merger review as confidential 
and will not publish your submission. We will not disclose submissions to third parties 
(except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of 
information legislation or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the 
Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, we will notify you in advance where possible so that you have an opportunity 
to be heard. Therefore please clearly indicate if any information you provide is confidential. 
Our Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on 
confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
Bruce Mikkelsen 
A/g General Manager  
Merger Investigations  
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
Attachment A 
 
The acquirer – Icon Group 
Icon is a large provider of cancer care services. In Australia, Icon provides radiation and 
medical oncology services, pharmaceutical compounding services, pharmacy management 
services and clinical cancer trials. Icon operates radiation oncology clinics in all states of 
Australia and the ACT.  
Cyberknife Australia 
Icon proposes to enter into a joint venture with Cyberknife Australia in relation to the 
establishment of up to 6 greenfield clinics, which will provide radiation oncology 
treatments using the ‘CyberKnife’ system.  
The CyberKnife system uses linear accelerators to provide radiation oncology treatment, 
specifically using Stereotactic Body Radiotherapy and Stereotactic Radiosurgery 
techniques. CyberKnife machines are manufactured by the US company, Accuray. Accuray 
does not have any ownership interest in Cyberknife Australia.  
In Australia, there are currently two CyberKnife machines in operation: one at 5D Clinics (a 
private radiation oncology clinic) and the other at Sir Charles Gairdner Hospital, both 
located in Perth. 
St Andrew’s Ipswich 
Icon proposes to establish a new radiation oncology clinic at St Andrew’s Ipswich 
Private Hospital at 12 Roderick Street, Ipswich Queensland. This will involve acquiring a 
leasehold interest in existing building space at the hospital. 
Ramsay is the largest operator of private hospitals in Australia. St Andrew’s Ipswich Private 
Hospital is owned and operated by Ramsay.  
St Vincent’s Chermside 
Icon proposes to establish a new radiation oncology clinic at St Vincent’s Private 
Hospital Northside at 627 Rode Road, Chermside Queensland. This will involve 
acquiring a leasehold interest in existing building space at the hospital. 
St Vincent’s Chermside is part of the St Vincent’s Health Australia network of hospitals, one 
of the largest Catholic non-profit healthcare providers in Australia. 
St John of God Geelong  
Icon proposes to establish a new radiation oncology service at the St John of God 
Hospital in Geelong, Victoria. The establishment of this greenfield clinic would involve 
the acquisition of a leasehold interest of vacant land. 
St John of God Geelong Hospital is part of St John of God Health Care, one of the 
largest Catholic providers of health care services in Australia. 


 
 
 
Attachment B 
1. Describe your business or organisation and explain your interest in the Proposed 
Acquisitions, including any commercial relationship with Icon. 
Competition in radiation oncology services 
2. Identify providers of radiation oncology services that compete with Icon in each 
of the relevant local and/or regional areas in which Icon is proposing to expand 
as a result of the Proposed Acquisitions, including both private and public 
providers. 
3. Describe how far patients typically travel to access radiation oncology services.  
4. Describe the non-price factors by which providers of radiation oncology services 
compete for the supply of radiation oncology services. 
5. Describe whether and to what extent competing providers of radiation oncology 
services would constrain Icon Group from increasing prices and/or decreasing 
service levels, including the impact of factors such as: 
a. 
location of existing private radiation oncology services   
b. 
location of existing public radiation oncology services   
c. 
presence of nearby surgical and medical oncology services 
d. 
availability of radiation oncologists. 
Questions for referring doctors and radiation oncologists 
6. Describe the key factors that are taken into consideration when referring a 
patient to a particular radiation oncology provider, such as patient need, 
treatment type, reputation and expertise, cost, equipment, waiting times and 
location. 
7. Describe the extent to which private radiation oncology providers compete with 
public providers, including with regard to the factors identified in question 5 
above. 
8. Describe whether radiation oncology doctors and specialists work across 
different sites and/or clinics, and if so, how far they typically travel between these 
locations. 
9. Identify the cancer types for which Stereotactic Body Radiotherapy and 
Stereotactic Radiosurgery techniques are used and explain whether alternative 
treatments can be used for these cancers. 
10. Describe the extent to which Stereotactic Body Radiotherapy and Stereotactic 
Radiosurgery techniques compete with traditional radiation oncology treatments, 
including the types of cancer treated, treatment cycles and efficacy. 
Questions for competitors 
11. Describe the factors that inform the setting of prices for radiation oncology 
services, including whether radiation oncologists have any input into pricing 
decisions. 
12. Provide an outline of the impact of government regulation (including, for example, 
Medicare subsidies and quality standards) on competitive dynamics in this 
industry. 


 
 
Questions for private hospital operators  
13. What factors influence the decision to establish a radiation oncology clinic in 
your hospital? 
14. How do you decide on the choice of provider for radiation oncology services, and 
what factors do you take into account in awarding contracts? 
15. Please describe any data you collect relating to radiation oncology services, 
including demand for radiation oncology services and waiting times. 
Other information and competition issues 
16. Describe any trends or changes you see as impacting the competitive landscape 
of the radiation oncology services industry, including issues such as bulk-billing 
rates, price changes, and any recent technological developments. 
17. Provide any additional information or comments, or identify any other 
competition issues, that you consider relevant to the ACCC’s consideration of the 
proposed acquisition under section 50 of the Act. 
