 
1
 
 
 
25 February 2008 
Statement of Issues — Cabcharge Australia Limited – 
proposed acquisition of Suburban Transport Services 
Pty Ltd 
1. 
Outlined below is the Statement of Issues released by the Australian 
Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) in relation to the proposed 
acquisition of Suburban Transport Services Pty Ltd (Suburban) by Cabcharge 
Australia Limited (Cabcharge). 
2. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well 
as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
3. 
In line with the ACCC’s Merger Review Process Guidelines (available on the 
ACCC’s website at www.accc.gov.au) the ACCC has established a secondary 
timeline for further consideration of the issues. The ACCC anticipates 
completing further market inquiries by 12 March 2008 and anticipates making a 
final decision by 4 April 2008. However, the anticipated timeline can change in 
line with the Merger Review Process Guidelines. To keep abreast of possible 
changes in relation to timing and to find relevant documents, market participants 
should visit the Mergers Register on the ACCC's website at 
www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
4. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties 
(including customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to 
ascertain and consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also 
intended to provide the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis 
for making further submissions should they consider it necessary. 
Background 
5. 
On 21 December 2007, Cabcharge publicly announced its agreement to acquire 
Suburban (the proposed acquisition). 


Cabcharge Australia Limited – proposed acquisition of Suburban Transport Services Pty Ltd 
 
2
6. 
On 14 January 2008, the ACCC commenced its informal review of the proposed 
acquisition. 
The parties 
Cabcharge Australia Limited 
7. 
Cabcharge is listed on the ASX and is a provider of taxi charge account services 
and taxi-related services in Australia. Cabcharge’s principal business is the 
supply of Cabcharge branded charge account cards, dockets and eTickets to 
corporate and government clients, as well as the supply of the Cabcharge 
EFTPOS FAREWAY System to the taxi industry. 
8. 
The Cabcharge EFTPOS FAREWAY System is a mobile electronic payments 
system which processes non-cash payments for taxi fares throughout Australia 
and in participating countries internationally. 
9. 
The Cabcharge EFTPOS FAREWAY System enables passengers to pay fares 
using: 
- 
Cabcharge branded charge cards, dockets and eTickets (which are replacing 
Cabcharge’s pre-printed account coded “blue dockets”) used by Cabcharge 
account customers; 
- 
third party charge cards (American Express, Diners Club, Motorpass, JCB); 
- 
bank issued credit cards (MasterCard, Visa Card) and debit cards. 
10. Cabcharge primarily derives income from a service fee (10% surcharge) charged 
to passengers using the Cabcharge EFTPOS FAREWAY System. Cabcharge 
provides processing services for non-cash payments processed on this system, 
whether the taxi fare is paid for using Cabcharge branded charge cards, dockets 
and eTickets, or paid for using third party charge cards, bank issued credit and 
debit cards. 
11. Cabcharge has publicly stated that approximately 400 taxi companies across 
Australia accept Cabcharge branded charge cards, dockets and eTickets, 
representing approximately 14,500 taxis from the national fleet. Cabcharge 
estimates that the Cabcharge EFTPOS FAREWAY System is offered in 96% of 
all taxis in Australia. 
12. Cabcharge has publicly stated that its charge account customer base comprises 
of around 44,000 account customers ranging from large corporations and 
government bodies to small businesses and individual accounts.  
13. In recent years, Cabcharge has made numerous acquisitions of taxi companies 
which provide network booking and dispatch services. Cabcharge currently 
owns major taxi networks which operate in the Sydney and Melbourne 
metropolitan areas. 


Cabcharge Australia Limited – proposed acquisition of Suburban Transport Services Pty Ltd 
 
3
Suburban Transport Services Pty Limited 
14. Suburban is a provider of network booking and dispatch services, operating in 
the Adelaide metropolitan area. 
15. There are approximately 1,000 taxis operating in metropolitan Adelaide. These 
taxis are each affiliated with one of the three taxi networks that operate in 
Adelaide – Suburban Transport Services, Yellow Cabs (Adelaide) and Adelaide 
Independent Taxis. Each of these taxi networks have comparable taxi fleets. 
The transaction 
16. On 7 December 2007, Suburban sought bids for their business via an 
Information Memorandum. 
17. Cabcharge submitted a binding offer to acquire all the shares of Suburban. 
Industry background 
18. The taxi industry in Australia comprises of drivers, operators, licence owners, 
taxi networks, as well as suppliers of taxi-specific non-cash payment methods, 
non-cash payment processing systems, taxi meters and taxi licence leasing 
services. 
19. Taxi networks are sometimes referred to as depots, co-operatives and taxi 
companies. Taxi networks provide most of the services that a taxi operator 
requires, including advertising of booking numbers, dispatch of bookings, 
equipment (such as safety cameras, GPS location equipment), maintenance, 
information and enforcement of standards. 
20. There are a number of possible payment methods which a passenger could use 
and a taxi driver could accept to pay for the hire of a taxi, including cash, credit 
card, debit card, vouchers (including, amongst others, Cabcharge vouchers), a 
subsidy card or voucher, a Cabcharge branded card or eTicket, or a combination 
of the above methods. 
21. In addition to the Cabcharge EFTPOS FAREWAY System, third party non-cash 
payment processing systems also exist. Market inquiries have indicated that taxi 
operators will not use third party non-cash payment processing systems in 
substitution to the Cabcharge EFTPOS FAREWAY system, but only in addition 
to it. The ACCC understands that, at present, Cabcharge will not allow third 
party non-cash payment processing systems to accept Cabcharge branded charge 
cards, dockets and eTickets. 
22. State Government regulation of the taxi industry includes the issuing of taxi 
licences, the certification of taxi drivers, and the setting and administering of 
service standards and practices. Taxi networks must meet minimum 
performance standards including response times and service delivery standards. 


Cabcharge Australia Limited – proposed acquisition of Suburban Transport Services Pty Ltd 
 
4
23. It is an Australia-wide regulatory requirement that taxi operators are members of 
an accredited taxi network which provides, either directly or indirectly, taxi 
booking and dispatch services and communication systems.  
24. Maximum taxi fares are controlled and regulated by state governments. 
Market inquiries 
25. On 17 January 2008, the ACCC commenced market inquiries regarding the 
proposed acquisition. A range of interested parties provided responses, including 
taxi networks, taxi industry associations, as well as potential entrants for the 
processing of non-cash payments in the taxi industry. 
26. The ACCC is now calling for certain further information from interested parties, 
as set out below. 
Statement of Issues 
27. For the purposes of this Statement of Issues, the issues are divided into three 
categories: ‘issues that are likely to raise concerns’ and ‘issues that may raise 
concerns’ and ‘issues unlikely to pose concerns’.  
28. The ACCC is inviting information from interested parties (preferably supported 
by examples and supporting evidence) in relation to all issues. 
Issues that are likely to raise concerns 
 
Potential for the proposed acquisition to raise barriers to entry and expansion for the 
supply of taxi-specific non-cash payment methods 
29. Market inquiries indicated that the acquisition of taxi networks by Cabcharge 
raises barriers to entry and expansion for companies seeking to supply taxi-
specific non-cash payment methods. 
30. Taxi-specific non-cash payment methods refer to charge cards, vouchers and 
dockets which are accepted for the payment of taxi fares, but are not able to be 
used more generally for non-cash payments. Taxi-specific non-cash payment 
methods provide corporate and government clients with security and 
accountability whilst accommodating the travel requirements of employees. 
31. Potential providers of alternative taxi-specific non-cash payment methods 
submitted that the acquisition of taxi networks by Cabcharge would reduce the 
proportion of independent taxi fleets with which to negotiate for the supply of a 
competing taxi-specific non-cash payment method to Cabcharge. 
32. Market inquiries indicated that broad acceptance of a taxi-specific non-cash 
payment method is required in order to be an effective competitor. The ACCC 
understands that network effects (in the economic sense) appear to be common 
for taxi-specific non-cash payment methods whereby a payment method 
becomes more valuable the more it is offered and accepted, thus encouraging 
ever-increasing numbers of users. 


Cabcharge Australia Limited – proposed acquisition of Suburban Transport Services Pty Ltd 
 
5
33. The ACCC invites further information and comments about whether the 
proposed acquisition of Suburban will increase barriers to entry and expansion 
for the supply of taxi-specific non-cash payment methods. 
In particular, the ACCC is seeking further comment on: 
(i) 
Foreclosure of potential and existing competitors 
 Do you consider that the acquisition of Suburban by Cabcharge 
will have the likely effect of foreclosing potential and existing 
competitors from negotiating with this taxi network for the 
supply of taxi-specific non-cash payment methods in Adelaide, or 
more generally? If so, to what extent, and why? 
 In light of Cabcharge’s current ownership of major taxi networks 
in the Sydney and Melbourne metropolitan areas, is the 
acquisition of Suburban by Cabcharge likely to have the effect of 
preventing or hindering the effectiveness, timeliness, and/or 
sufficiency of entry of competing taxi-specific non-cash payment 
methods, either in Adelaide or generally? If so, how? 
 Do regulatory barriers in South Australia raise barriers to entry 
and expansion for suppliers of competing taxi-specific non-cash 
payment methods? If so, please detail. 
(ii) Strategies for entry and expansion of taxi-specific non-cash payment 
methods 
 Please outline the strategies for entry and expansion for the 
supply of taxi-specific non-cash payment methods. In providing 
comments as to entry and expansion strategies, please give 
specific examples of any attempted entry and supporting 
information, if available. 
 How important is universal acceptance (ie. acceptance in all 
taxis) to the supply of taxi-specific non-cash payment methods? 
 In order to be commercially viable does a new supplier of a taxi-
specific non-cash payment method necessarily require use of the 
Cabcharge EFTPOS FAREWAY System? If not, what are the 
alternative payment options? 
 Is national coverage necessary for the supply of an alternative 
taxi-specific non-cash payment method? Could a taxi-specific 
non-cash payment method be commercially viable if it was only 
available in taxis operating in Adelaide or alternatively South 
Australia? 


Cabcharge Australia Limited – proposed acquisition of Suburban Transport Services Pty Ltd 
 
6
Potential for the proposed acquisition to raise barriers to entry and expansion for the 
processing of non-cash payments in the taxi industry 
34. Market inquiries indicated that the acquisition of taxi networks by Cabcharge 
raises barriers to entry and expansion for potential entrants seeking to process 
non-cash payments in the taxi industry. It has been indicated that the acquisition 
of taxi networks by Cabcharge reduces the proportion of independent taxi fleets 
with which to negotiate for processing of non-cash payments alternative to 
Cabcharge. 
35. The ACCC understands that the processing of non-cash payments involves a 
separate functional level to that of the provision of non-cash payment methods 
to the taxi industry. The processing of non-cash payments in the taxi industry 
involves agreements between card issuers and merchants. Merchants in the taxi 
industry tend to be the organisations, such as taxi networks, that provide 
processing services rather than taxi drivers or operators. 
36. In consideration for taxi networks making the Cabcharge EFTPOS FAREWAY 
System available in their taxi fleets, Cabcharge makes payments (as rebates on 
processing fees) to taxi networks based on the value of transactions they process 
through the Cabcharge EFTPOS FAREWAY System. 
37. The ACCC understands that, at present, Cabcharge’s taxi-specific non-cash 
payment methods can only be processed with Cabcharge EFTPOS FAREWAY 
System. Potential competitors seeking to supply non-cash payment systems to 
the taxi industry are therefore limited to the processing of third party charge 
cards or bank issued credit cards. Market inquiries indicated that Cabcharge 
branded charge account cards and eTickets account for approximately 60% of 
non-cash transactions in the taxi industry. 
38. Market participants submitted that this is not a result of any technical limitation 
of alternative non-cash payment systems, but because there is no commercial 
agreement between Cabcharge and any competing providers of non-cash 
payment systems which allow for the acceptance of Cabcharge branded charge 
account cards and eTickets. 
39. Market inquiries indicated that the inability of any competing non-cash payment 
system to accept Cabcharge’s taxi-specific non-cash payment methods (ie. 
Cabcharge charge account cards and eTickets) has the result that potential 
competitors seeking to process non-cash payments in the taxi industry will not 
present effective competition to the Cabcharge EFTPOS FAREWAY System. 
As noted above, competition is generally by way of secondary non-cash 
payment systems in taxis (i.e. the installation of competing systems in addition 
to, not in substitution for, the Cabcharge EFTPOS FAREWAY System). 
40. The ACCC notes that potential entrants may negotiate individually with taxi 
operators for the supply of competing non-cash payment systems to the 
Cabcharge EFTPOS FAREWAY System. Market inquiries indicated that 
negotiation with individual taxi operators is highly inefficient due to the 
multitude of taxi operators and the associated communications costs involved, 


Cabcharge Australia Limited – proposed acquisition of Suburban Transport Services Pty Ltd 
 
7
limiting the successful entry of potential entrants seeking to provide alternative 
non-cash payment systems. 
41. The ACCC invites further information and comments about whether the 
proposed acquisition of Suburban will increase barriers to entry and expansion 
for the processing of non-cash payments in the taxi industry. 
In particular, the ACCC is seeking further comment on: 
(i) 
Foreclosure of potential and existing competitors 
 Do you consider that the acquisition of Suburban by Cabcharge 
will have the likely effect of foreclosing potential and existing 
competitors from negotiating with this taxi network for 
processing of non-cash payments in the Adelaide taxi industry, or 
more generally? If so, to what extent, and why? 
 In light of Cabcharge’s current ownership of major taxi networks 
in the Sydney and Melbourne metropolitan areas, is the 
acquisition of Suburban by Cabcharge likely to have the effect of 
preventing or hindering the effectiveness, timeliness, and/or 
sufficiency of entry of potential competitors seeking to process 
non-cash payments in the taxi industry either in Adelaide or 
generally?  If so, how? 
 Do regulatory barriers in South Australia raise barriers to entry 
and expansion for potential competitors seeking to process non-
cash payments in the Adelaide taxi industry? If so, please detail. 
(ii) Strategies for entry and expansion of non-cash payment processing in 
the taxi industry 
 Please outline the strategies for entry and expansion for the 
processing of non-cash payments in the taxi industry. In 
providing comments as to entry and expansion strategies, please 
give specific examples of any attempted entry and supporting 
information, if available. 
 How important is acceptance of Cabcharge branded charge cards, 
dockets and eTickets to the processing of non-cash payments in 
the taxi industry? 
 Is prospective entry for the processing of non-cash payments in 
the taxi industry attempted locally, regionally and/or nationally? 
Issues that may raise concerns 
National taxi booking number services 
42. National taxi booking numbers allow the public to call a single number 
throughout Australia which will direct them to the local taxi network in the 
relevant area which has licensed the local rights to the particular number. 


Cabcharge Australia Limited – proposed acquisition of Suburban Transport Services Pty Ltd 
 
8
43. Market inquiries have indicated that taxi networks acquire the licence for 
national taxi booking numbers in order to attract taxi operators to their network. 
It has been indicated that the perceived ability of a taxi network to provide taxi 
bookings to a taxi operator is an important factor in attracting taxi operators to a 
particular taxi network. 
44. The proposed acquisition would increase Cabcharge’s shareholding in Taxi 
131 008 Pty Ltd, the licence provider of the 13 1008 national taxi booking 
number. 
45. Cabcharge currently has a majority shareholding of the major competing 
national taxi booking number, 13 2227 (13 CABS). 
46. The ACCC invites further information and comments about whether the 
proposed acquisition of Suburban by Cabcharge will raise competition concerns 
in respect of an increased shareholding by Cabcharge of the national taxi 
booking number, 13 1008. 
Potential for the proposed acquisition to raise barriers to entry and expansion for the 
supply of taxi equipment to the taxi industry 
47. Market inquiries indicated that the acquisition of taxi networks by Cabcharge 
raises barriers to entry for potential entrants seeking to supply a variety of taxi 
equipment (including meters, GPS systems, cameras, etc) and ancillary services 
including installation to the taxi industry. 
48. Cabcharge is a supplier of taxi equipment to the taxi industry. 
49. Market inquiries indicated that the acquisition of taxi networks by Cabcharge 
reduces the proportion of independent taxi fleets with which to negotiate for the 
supply of competing taxi equipment. 
50. The ACCC invites further information and comments about whether, and if so, 
the extent to which, the proposed acquisition of Suburban will increase barriers 
to entry and expansion for the supply of taxi equipment to the taxi industry. 
In particular, the ACCC is seeking further comment on: 
(i) 
Foreclosure of potential and existing competitors 
 Do you consider that the acquisition of Suburban by Cabcharge is 
likely to have the likely effect of foreclosing potential and 
existing competitors from negotiating with this taxi network for 
the supply of taxi equipment to the Adelaide taxi industry, or 
more generally? If so, to what extent, and why? 
 In light of Cabcharge’s current ownership of major taxi networks 
in the Sydney and Melbourne metropolitan areas, is the 
acquisition of Suburban by Cabcharge likely to have the effect of 
preventing or hindering the effectiveness, timeliness and/or 
sufficiency of entry or expansion of competing taxi equipment 
suppliers? If so, how? 


Cabcharge Australia Limited – proposed acquisition of Suburban Transport Services Pty Ltd 
 
9
 Do regulatory barriers in South Australia raise barriers to entry 
and expansion for suppliers of competing taxi equipment? If so, 
please detail. 
(ii) Strategies for entry and expansion of taxi equipment suppliers 
 Please outline the strategies for entry and expansion for the 
supply of taxi equipment. In providing comments as to entry and 
expansion strategies, please give specific examples of any 
attempted entry and supporting information, if available. 
 How important are economies of scale for the supply of taxi 
equipment? 
 Is prospective entry for the supply of taxi equipment attempted 
locally, regionally and/or nationally? 
Issues unlikely to pose concerns 
51. Cabcharge and Suburban both also provide the following services: 
 provision of taxi services to the public; 
 provision of network booking and dispatch services; 
 provision of taxi network services to taxi operators. 
52. However, Cabcharge does not currently provide these services within the 
Adelaide metropolitan area.  
53. The ACCC considers that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to raise horizontal 
aggregation concerns in relation to these services, on the basis that the ACCC’s 
current view as to the geographic market in which to assess these particular 
services is in the Adelaide metropolitan area. 
ACCC's future steps 
54. The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers market 
responses invited by this Statement of Issues. 
55. The ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on each of the 
issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that may be 
relevant to the ACCC’s assessment of this matter. 
56. Submissions are to be received by the ACCC no later than 12 March 2008. The 
ACCC will consider the submissions received from the market and the merger 
parties in light of the issues identified above and will, in conjunction with 
information and submissions already provided by the parties, come to a final 
view as to the appropriate course of action to take to resolve any competition 
concerns that remain. 


Cabcharge Australia Limited – proposed acquisition of Suburban Transport Services Pty Ltd 
 
10
57. The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 4 April 2008. 
However the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Merger Review 
Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose of 
explaining the ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC’s 
public announcement. 
