 
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
tel: (02) 6243 1368 
mergers@accc.gov.au
www.accc.gov.au
Our ref:  
IM-72178 
 
 
Contact officer:  
Claudia Gulbransen-Diaz / Lucia Moschis 
 
Contact phone:  
(02) 9230 9125 / (08) 8456 3549 
12 April 2023 
Dear Interested Party 
Re:  Request for submissions: Australian Clinical Labs Limited’s proposed 
acquisition of Healius Limited 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
the proposed acquisition of Healius Limited (Healius) by Australian Clinical Labs Limited 
(ACL) (the proposed acquisition). 
ACL and Healius provide human pathology services to out-patients, in-patients (at public 
and private hospitals), and commercial and government customers, as well as veterinary 
pathology services. Healius also provides diagnostic imaging services. Further details are 
provided at Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact on competition.  In particular, we are 
seeking your views on: 
• 
how closely ACL and Healius compete in the supply of pathology services; 
• 
the impact of the proposed acquisition on price (including bulk-billing policies), 
quality or service levels (including convenience), in the context of already high 
levels of concentration in pathology services in Australia; and 
• 
whether new entry or expansion in the supply of pathology services would constrain 
a combined ACL/Healius from altering its pricing (including bulk-billing policies) or 
service levels.  
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
Please provide your response by 3 May 2023 via email with the title: Submission re: ACL/ 


Healius - attention Claudia Gulbransen-Diaz/ Lucia Moschis. If you require more time to 
respond, please let us know. 
If you would like to arrange a time to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any 
questions about this letter, please contact Claudia Gulbransen-Diaz on (02) 9230 9125 or 
Lucia Moschis on (08) 8456 3549. 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public 
Mergers Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC treats sensitive information it receives during a merger review as confidential, and will 
not publish your submission. We will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our 
advisors/consultants) unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information 
legislation or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition and 
Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, we will notify 
you in advance where possible so that you have an opportunity to be heard. Therefore please 
clearly indicate if any information you provide is confidential. Our Informal Merger Review Process 
Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
Daniel McCracken-Hewson 
General Manager  
Merger Investigations  
 
 
 
 
 


Attachment A 
 
Proposed acquisition 
 
On 20 March 2023, ACL announced its intention to acquire Healius by way of an 
unsolicited takeover offer to acquire all fully paid ordinary shares in Healius.  
 
ACL  
 
ACL is an ASX-listed Australian provider of pathology services (ASX:ACL). ACL 
provides human pathology services to out-patients, in-patients (of public and private 
hospitals), and commercial and government customers.  
 
ACL provides human pathology services through its wholly owned subsidiary Clinical 
Laboratories Pty Ltd. As at March 2023, ACL operated Approved Collection Centres 
(ACCs) and National Association of Testing Authorities (NATA) accredited laboratories 
Australia-wide (except Tasmania): 
 
• 
444 ACCs and 11 NATA accredited laboratories in NSW and ACT 
• 
470 ACCs and 28 NATA accredited laboratories in Victoria 
• 
72 ACCs and 2 NATA accredited laboratories in Queensland 
• 
155 ACCs and 26 NATA accredited laboratories in South Australia 
• 
172 ACCs and 7 NATA accredited laboratories in Western Australia 
• 
13 ACCs and 1 NATA accredited laboratory in the Northern Territory. 
 
ACL also provides veterinary pathology services in South Australia and Victoria 
through its Gribbles Veterinary brand. 
 
ACL operates 31 SunDoctors skin cancer clinics in NSW, Queensland, Victoria and 
South Australia through Southern Sun Clinics Pty Ltd.  
 
Healius 
 
Healius is an ASX-listed Australian provider of pathology services and diagnostic 
imaging services (ASX:HLS). Healius provides pathology services to out-patients and 
in-patients (of private and public hospitals), and commercial and government 
customers.  
 
As at March 2023, Healius provided human pathology services through Specialist 
Diagnostic Services Pty Ltd operating under various brands in all Australian states and 
territories: 
 
• 
543 ACCs and 26 NATA accredited laboratories in Queensland through QML 
Pathology 
• 
732 ACCs and 26 NATA accredited laboratories in NSW and ACT through 
Laverty Pathology 
• 
534 ACCs and 29 NATA accredited laboratories in Victoria through Dorevitch 
Pathology 
• 
33 ACCs and 1 NATA accredited laboratory in South Australia through Abbott 
Pathology 
• 
223 ACCs and 12 NATA accredited laboratories in Western Australia and the 
Northern Territory through Western Diagnostic Pathology 
• 
22 ACCs and 2 NATA accredited laboratories in Tasmania through TML 
Pathology  
 


Healius also provides veterinary pathology services through its Vetpath (Western 
Australia and Northern Territory), Vetnostics (NSW and ACT), QML Vetnostics 
(Queensland), TML Vetnostics (Tasmania) and Australian Specialised Animal 
Pathology Laboratory (South Australia and Victoria) brands. 
 
On 8 December 2022, Healius announced it had entered into a binding agreement to 
sell its day hospital business (Montserrat Day Hospitals) to Nexus Hospitals. 


 
Attachment B 
1. Describe your business or organisation and explain your interest in the proposed 
acquisition, including any commercial relationship(s) with ACL or Healius. 
Community pathology services  
Relevant market(s) 
2. When reviewing mergers in the pathology sector, the ACCC has previously 
considered the likely competitive effects in state-based markets for the supply of 
community pathology services (including services to out-patients and private in-
patients).  
Comment on the appropriateness of this market definition, including with respect 
to:  
a. state-based geographic scope; and  
b. whether out-patient and private in-patient pathology services should be 
considered together, including the extent to which participation in tender 
processes should be distinct from out-patient services. 
Competition between ACL and Healius 
3. Describe how closely ACL and Healius compete in the supply of pathology 
services (including with respect to price or bulk-billing practices, type and quality 
of service, convenience and/or participation in tender processes).  
Competing suppliers 
4. Identify suppliers of community pathology services that compete with ACL and/or 
Healius in each state or territory and describe whether each is a strong, moderate 
or weak competitor and why.  
5. Provide market share estimates for the supply of community pathology services 
in each state or territory.  
6. To what extent would competing suppliers of community pathology services 
constrain the merged entity from introducing co-payments and/or decreasing 
service levels.  
7. Discuss the impact of government regulation (including, for example, Medicare 
subsidies and quality standards) on competitive dynamics in this industry.  
Entry or expansion  
8. Identify competitors which have entered or expanded in these markets in the last 
3 years.  
9. Describe the extent to which these new or expanded competitors have provided a 
competitive constraint on ACL and Healius.  
10. Identify potential future new entrants to the supply of community pathology 
services in each state or territory.  


11. Discuss the likelihood that these potential entrants, or existing competitors, could 
establish a sufficient presence to deter any attempt to reduce bulk-billing levels, 
increase co-payments or reduce service levels.  
In your response, outline the likely timeframe for market entry and provide details 
on barriers to entry, such as:  
a. economies of scale and the minimum efficient scale of market entry;  
b. referral pathways;  
c. availability of desirable locations for collection centres;  
d. regulatory barriers, such as collection centre approvals;  
e. costs of market entry, and the extent to which these costs would be 
recoverable on market exit;  
f. prevailing levels of trust in, or loyalty to, existing pathology providers;  
g. access to qualified and sufficiently skilled pathologists; and  
h. trends in market growth/decline.   
Public hospital pathology services  
12. Discuss the extent to which ACL and Healius compete with one another, and 
other companies, in the supply of pathology services to public hospitals.  
13. Discuss whether, and to what extent, public hospitals can self-supply pathology 
services or sponsor new entry sufficient for their requirements.  
Vet pathology services 
14. Discuss the extent to which ACL and Healius compete with one another, and 
other companies, in the supply of vet pathology services.  
Other information and competition issues 
15. Describe any trends or changes you see as impacting the competitive landscape 
of the pathology industry. In your response, consider issues such as:  
a. increased bulk-billing rates; 
b. the impact of COVID-19, including the rise and decline in testing rates; 
and 
c. any recent technological developments. 
16. Provide any additional information or comments, or identify other competition 
issues, that you consider relevant to the ACCC’s consideration of the proposed 
acquisition under section 50 of the Act.  
 
