Page 1 of 30 
 
Statement of Issues 
20 July 2023 
Australian Clinical Labs Limited – proposed acquisition of 
Healius Limited  
Purpose 
1. 
Australian Clinical Labs Limited (ACL) proposes to acquire Healius Limited 
(Healius).  
2. 
This Statement of Issues: 
• 
gives the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission’s (ACCC) 
preliminary views on competition issues arising from the proposed 
acquisition 
• 
identifies areas of further inquiry 
• 
invites interested parties to submit comments and information to assist our 
assessment of the issues. 
3. 
Statements of Issues do not refer to confidential information provided by the 
parties or other market participants and therefore may not fully articulate the 
ACCC’s preliminary position. 
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views 
4. 
In considering the proposed acquisition, the ACCC applies the legal test set out 
in section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the CCA). In general 
terms, section 50 prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to 
have the effect, of substantially lessening competition in any market. 
5. 
The ACCC divides its preliminary views into three categories, 'issues of concern', 
'issues that may raise concerns' and ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’. In this 
Statement of Issues there are three ‘issues of concern’ and one ‘issue that may 
raise concerns’.  


ACL – proposed acquisition of Healius 
 
Page 2 of 30 
Issue of concern – unilateral effects in community pathology services  
6. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition would lead to a 
substantial lessening of competition in the market or markets for community 
pathology services. 
7. 
The transaction would result in a significant increase in concentration in already 
concentrated markets for the supply of community pathology services. New entry 
or expansion on a scale sufficient to prevent a substantial lessening of 
competition appears unlikely. 
8. 
The ACCC is concerned that the merged entity would have the ability to increase 
prices and/or reduce service quality. 
Issue of concern – coordinated conduct in community pathology services 
9. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition would lead to a 
substantial lessening of competition via an increased risk of coordinated conduct 
in community pathology services, particularly between the merged entity and 
Sonic.  
10. 
The ACCC is particularly concerned that this increased risk of coordinated 
conduct may result in an increase in private billing for pathology services. 
Issue of concern – public pathology services in Victoria 
11. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition would lead to a 
substantial lessening of competition in the supply of public pathology services in 
Victoria.  
12. 
The proposed acquisition would combine the two most active competitors in the 
supply of pathology services to public hospitals in Victoria. In some regional 
areas of Victoria, the proposed acquisition may combine the only active 
competitors for these services. 
13. 
The ACCC is concerned that the merged entity would have the ability to increase 
prices and/or reduce service quality. 
Issue that may raise concerns – veterinary pathology services in Victoria and 
South Australia 
14. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition may lead to a 
substantial lessening of competition in veterinary pathology services in Victoria 
and South Australia.  
15. 
The proposed acquisition would lead to the combination of two important 
competitors in already concentrated markets for the supply of veterinary 
pathology services in Victoria and South Australia.  
Making a submission 
16. 
The ACCC invites submissions from interested parties by 5pm on 10 August 
2023. Responses may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: 
Submission re: ACL-Healius - attention Debbie Ravalli. If you would like to 


ACL – proposed acquisition of Healius 
 
Page 3 of 30 
discuss the matter with ACCC staff or have any questions about this Statement 
of Issues, please contact Debbie Ravalli on (07) 3811 9268.  
17. 
The ACCC anticipates making a final decision on 12 October 2023, however, 
this timeline can change. To keep up with possible timing changes and to find 
relevant documents, interested parties should visit the Mergers Register on the 
ACCC's website at www.accc.gov.au/public-registers/mergers-registers/public-
informal-merger-reviews.  
Confidentiality of submissions 
18. 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We 
will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) 
unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation 
or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the CCA. Where 
the ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, the ACCC will notify 
you in advance where possible so that you may have an opportunity to be heard. 
Therefore, please identify any confidential information that is provided to the 
ACCC. Our Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more 
information on confidentiality. 
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’ 
19. 
A Statement of Issues is not a final decision about a proposed acquisition. A 
Statement of Issues outlines the ACCC’s preliminary views and identifies further 
lines of inquiry. 
20. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 
The parties 
The acquirer: ACL  
21. 
ACL is an ASX-listed Australian provider of pathology services (ASX:ACL). ACL 
provides human pathology services to out-patients, in-patients (of public and 
private hospitals), and commercial and government customers. 
22. 
ACL primarily provides human pathology services through its wholly owned 
subsidiary Clinical Labs Pty Ltd. As at March 2023, ACL operated Approved 
Collection Centres (ACCs) and National Association of Testing Authorities 
(NATA) accredited laboratories Australia-wide (except Tasmania). See Table 1 
for the number of ACCs and laboratories per state/territory.  
23. 
ACL provides veterinary pathology services in South Australia and Victoria 
through its Gribbles Veterinary brand. 
24. 
ACL operates 31 SunDoctors skin cancer clinics in New South Wales, 
Queensland, Victoria and South Australia through Southern Sun Clinics Pty Ltd. 


ACL – proposed acquisition of Healius 
 
Page 4 of 30 
The target: Healius 
25. 
Healius, which traded as Primary Health Care Limited until November 2018, is 
an ASX-listed Australian provider of pathology services and diagnostic imaging 
services (ASX:HLS). Healius provides pathology services to out-patients and in-
patients (of private and public hospitals), and commercial and government 
customers. 
26. 
As at March 2023, Healius provided human pathology services through 
Specialist Diagnostic Services Pty Ltd operating under various brands in all 
Australian states and territories. Its brands include Laverty Pathology (New 
South Wales and Australian Capital Territory), Dorevitch Pathology (Victoria), 
QML Pathology (Queensland), Abbott Pathology (South Australia), Western 
Diagnostic Pathology (Western Australia and Northern Territory) and TML 
Pathology (Tasmania). See Table 1 for the number of ACCs and laboratories in 
each state/territory. 
27. 
Healius also provides veterinary pathology services through its Vetpath (Western 
Australia and Norther Territory), Vetnostics (New South Wales and Australian 
Capital Territory), QML Vetnostics (Queensland), TML Vetnostics (Tasmania) 
and Australian Specialised Animal Pathology Laboratory (South Australia and 
Victoria) brands. 
28. 
On 2 May 2023, Healius completed a binding agreement to sell its day hospital 
business (Montserrat Day Hospitals) to Nexus Hospitals. 
Table 1: ACL and Healius ACCs and laboratories per state/territory1 
 
ACCs 
NATA accredited laboratories 
State 
ACL 
Healius 
ACL  
Healius  
NSW/ACT 
447 
732 
11 
26 
VIC 
470 
533 
28 
29 
QLD 
73 
534 
2 
26 
SA 
153 
32 
26 
1 
WA 
172 
205 
7 
10 
NT 
14 
18 
1 
2 
TAS 
- 
22 
- 
2 
  
 
 
1 Data for this table was collected from Department of Human Services, Approved Collection Centres for Pathology 
Services, DHS, Canberra, 2023 on 19 April 2023.  


ACL – proposed acquisition of Healius 
 
Page 5 of 30 
Industry background 
Pathology testing 
29. 
Pathology is the branch of clinical medicine concerned with studying the nature, 
diagnosis and causes of diseases. Pathology testing involves the analysis of 
medical samples, for example blood cell counts, which are collected from 
patients. 
30. 
Pathology testing can be divided into the following four broad categories and 
relevant sub-specialties: 
• 
biochemistry (chemical pathology, immunology and infertility and 
pregnancy tests) 
• 
haematology 
• 
microbiology 
• 
histopathology and cytopathology (sometimes referred to as histology and 
cytology). 
31. 
Testing for different sub-specialities is automated to varying degrees. 
Biochemistry and haematology tend to be more highly automated and generate 
the highest pathology test volumes. Consequently, there are significant 
economies of scale associated with performing these tests. Histology and 
cytology tend to require greater manual preparation of samples, analysis, and 
interpretation of test results. 
Pathology collection 
32. 
Pathology samples are collected from patients via various channels, including at: 
• 
ACCs, or pathology collection centres staffed by a pathology provider 
• 
collection bins in medical practices, specialist practices or other allied 
health facilities such as aged care and nursing homes (‘collection bins’), 
where a pathology provider can collect referred samples  
• 
hospitals. 
33. 
The ACCC is not aware of any full-service providers solely using collection bins. 
ACCs can be ‘co-located’ at medical practices (by sub-leasing part of a medical 
practice) or ‘standalone’ at an independent site. 
Pathology funding 
34. 
Most pathology testing is funded in one or more of the following ways: 
• 
Commonwealth government – the Commonwealth Government funds 
most pathology tests through Medicare rebates on a fee-for-service basis, 
in some cases supplemented by out-of-pocket expenses paid by patients 
(see further below). The rate at which a pathology test is covered under 
Medicare rebates is set by the Commonwealth Government under the 
Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS). 
• 
Health funds – for private in-patients with private health insurance, a 
private health fund will cover some or all of any ‘gap’ (see further below) for 


ACL – proposed acquisition of Healius 
 
Page 6 of 30 
privately billed patients. For this purpose, private health funds seek to enter 
into Medical Provider Purchase Agreements (MPPAs) with pathology 
providers. 
• 
State governments – the pathology expenses of public in-patients at 
public hospitals are generally covered by a state-based funding system 
covering all services provided during a hospital stay. 
35. 
The mechanism for billing pathology tests, except for public in-patients covered 
by a state-based funding system, is described below. 
36. 
A pathology provider can choose whether to receive only the applicable MBS 
rebates for services it provides (‘bulk bill’) or to impose an additional charge to 
patients, known as an ‘out of pocket’ expense or ‘gap’ (‘privately bill’). This 
decision is influenced by a range of factors, including whether the patient is a 
concession card holder, the preference of the doctor as expressed on the 
referral form, the billing policy of competing pathology providers and the 
complexity of the test. Pricing is implemented through the billing policy of each 
pathology provider. 
37. 
When a pathology provider chooses to bulk bill its patients, the pathology 
provider obtains payment directly from the Commonwealth Government. The 
result is that the services are effectively free to the patient and the pathology 
provider is exposed to minimal credit risk. 
38. 
The ACCC understands private billing is common in private hospital settings but 
is uncommon in out-patient settings. 
39. 
The ACCC understands that pathology providers face the following difficulties 
privately billing for out-patient services: 
• 
Explicit informed consent: At the point of collection, the number of 
laboratory tests that need to be run on a patient sample to satisfy a doctor’s 
referral may be unknown. It may be difficult to ascertain the full cost owed 
by patients until testing has been undertaken. As pathology providers must 
obtain explicit informed consent from patients when billing, they are not 
authorised to charge for an unspecified amount.  
• 
Episode coning: In some circumstances where a medical practitioner 
refers numerous tests in a single patient visit (or patient episode), an 
algorithm is applied by Medicare to only furnish payment for the three 
highest fee items as determined by the MBS rate (also known as ‘episode 
coning’). From the outset it may be difficult for pathology providers to 
accurately determine how episode coning may apply for some patients 
when the billing algorithm is applied by Medicare. 
• 
Patients seeking MBS rate for eligible items: Where a pathology 
provider renders a patient with an invoice for the full cost of a pathology test 
(which may include a testing fee and additional co-payment), the patient 
may still apply to Medicare to obtain a rebate for eligible tests based on the 
MBS rate. When an invoice is received, patients can either pay a pathology 
provider in full and subsequently apply for the MBS rate with Medicare or 


ACL – proposed acquisition of Healius 
 
Page 7 of 30 
make a claim directly to Medicare and receive a cheque for the MBS rate.2 
Alternatively, the patient may choose not to pay the invoice, in which case 
the provider may incur further costs to recover the debt. In this instance 
Medicare may elect to pay the MBS rate to the pathology provider,3 
however this involves the pathology provider foregoing any additional out-
of-pocket expenses charged to patients. 
40. 
In private in-patient settings, private health insurers may enter an MPPA with 
pathology providers. This ensures that a private health insurer’s customers are 
not privately billed. If a patient does not have private health insurance, or their 
private health insurer does not have an MPPA with a pathology provider, then 
the patient is directly billed for the cost of the pathology test.  
41. 
Some pathology tests are not covered by Medicare, for example pathology tests 
connected with elective cosmetic surgery and some genetic/DNA tests.4 In this 
instance, patients are directly billed for the full cost of a pathology test.  
42. 
A pathology provider may obtain substantially greater revenue if it privately bills 
patients, who must then pay out-of-pocket expenses. There is some credit risk 
associated with invoicing and seeking payment from out-patients relative to 
seeking payment directly from Medicare, as it relies on the patient paying the 
out-of-pocket expense and may also require the patient to pass on the applicable 
Medicare rebate to the pathology provider.5 The ACCC has previously found that 
the size of the out-of-pocket expense is generally set at a level that is sufficient 
to mitigate this risk.  
43. 
In this Statement of Issues, references to ‘price increases’ should be read as 
including both or either of:   
• 
the introduction of private billing for pathology services that would otherwise 
be bulk billed 
• 
an increase in the gap for privately billed pathology services. 
Referrals  
44. 
A patient must obtain a referral from a medical practitioner for a pathology test. 
Pathology providers provide branded referral forms to medical practitioners, 
which patients then take to an ACC.  
45. 
The medical practitioner may express a preference on the referral form for the 
patient either to be bulk billed or privately billed. A pathology provider can only 
bulk bill if that has been requested by a medical practitioner. Despite a request to 
bulk bill, the pathology provider can choose to disregard that request and bill the 
patient on a private basis.    
 
 
2 In this scenario, any additional out-of-pocket expense above the MBS rate would still have to be paid for by the 
patient. 
3 The ACCC understands that, after a period of 90 days from the date of an eligible invoice, the Chief Executive of 
Medicare may elect to pay the MBS rate for an eligible test direct to the pathology provider.  
4 Services Australia, Pathology services for health professionals, Department of Human Services, accessed 28 June 
2023. 
5 There is relatively little credit risk involved with privately billing insured in-patients who are covered by health 
insurance. 


ACL – proposed acquisition of Healius 
 
Page 8 of 30 
46. 
Since 11 December 2010, patients have been free to take these forms to any 
pathology provider, regardless of the branding on the form.6 Patients generally 
opt for the pathology provider listed on the form. The ACCC understands that the 
number of ‘foreign’ request reforms received by pathology providers is low.  
The proposed transaction 
47. 
On 20 March 2023, ACL made an off-market takeover offer for Healius offering 
0.74 ACL shares for every 1 Healius share (the Offer).  
48. 
Also on 20 March 2023, Healius advised its shareholders to take no action in 
relation to the Offer.  
49. 
On 29 March, Healius made an application to the Takeovers Panel, submitting 
that (among other things) ACL’s Bidder’s Statement is misleading (including by 
omission) and inadequate in several respects and as a result: 
• 
the Offer is not taking place, or will not take place, in an efficient, 
competitive and informed market 
• 
Healius shareholders are not being given enough information to enable 
them to assess the merits of the Offer 
• 
the Bidder’s Statement contravenes s636(1)(m) and 670A(1) of the 
Corporations Act. 
50. 
Following receipt of the application by Healius, ACL provided the Takeovers 
Panel with a draft Replacement Bidder’s Statement (RBS) containing revised 
disclosures. On 17 April 2023, the Takeovers Panel declined to conduct 
proceedings. 
51. 
The offer period expires on 29 September 2023. 
Other industry participants 
Commercial pathology providers  
52. 
Sonic Healthcare Limited (Sonic) (ASX:SHL) is a prominent commercial 
pathology provider operating in all states and territories. Sonic provides 
pathology and radiology services in Australia and overseas. It also offers medical 
centre management services through subsidiary company Independent 
Practitioners Network, and healthcare software development services through 
subsidiary company Precedence Healthcare. 
53. 
4Cyte Pathology Pty Ltd (4Cyte) is a commercial pathology provider with ACCs 
in New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland. 4Cyte commenced operations in 
2018. Market feedback has suggested 4Cyte grew significantly across New 
South Wales, Victoria and Queensland as a result of its prominent role in 
securing State government contracts for conducting rapid antigen tests during 
the COVID-19 pandemic.  
 
 
6 An exception is where a particular pathology provider is specified by the referring medical practitioner on clinical 
grounds. 


ACL – proposed acquisition of Healius 
 
Page 9 of 30 
54. 
There are also other commercial pathology providers with single-state offerings. 
These include Medihealth Pathology Pty Ltd (New South Wales), Saturn 
Pathology Pty Ltd (Western Australia) and Austech Medical Laboratories 
(Trading for KSPC Pty Ltd) (New South Wales).  
55. 
There are also niche providers with limited ACC networks and/or that operate 
laboratories which focus on providing specific pathology services. This includes 
rapid antigen testing for COVID-19 (including walk-in sites and temporary sites at 
airports), and corporate/government testing for employees. 
Not-for-profit pathology providers 
56. 
There are several not-for-profit pathology providers. Some are owned by hospital 
operators and may not offer their services to all market participants.  
57. 
The ACCC also understands not-for-profit providers may be more likely to 
operate in narrower geographic areas, including metro areas, typically around 
hospitals to which they are attached. Where a not-for-profit provider is affiliated 
with a particular hospital (such as St Vincent’s Pathology primarily servicing St 
Vincent’s Hospitals), these providers usually maintain ACC locations within a 
small geographic radius of the affiliated hospital. 
Public pathology providers 
58. 
South Australia, Australian Capital Territory, Northern Territory, Tasmania, 
Western Australia, Queensland and New South Wales have publicly funded 
pathology services that are required to service, under state health regulation, the 
clinical pathology testing needs of their respective public hospital systems state-
wide.  
59. 
These public pathology providers are required to provide the full range of 
pathology services on 24-7 basis, including complex tests. They are also able to 
accept pathology samples from a variety of sources including out-patients and 
private in-patients. Some public pathology providers maintain ACCs in the 
general community, usually in the area surrounding the public hospitals they 
service. 
60. 
In Victoria, there are public pathology providers that are associated with a 
specific public hospital provider (Monash Health Pathology, Austin Pathology, 
Eastern Health, Alfred Pathology Services, Northern Pathology Victoria, and 
Melbourne Health). These providers operate at a smaller scale than the state-
wide public pathology providers in other states. 
61. 
Victoria has a high proportion of public pathology services that have been 
outsourced to commercial pathology providers. Market feedback suggests this 
has occurred due to historical policy settings favouring deregulation of pathology 
services in public hospitals. 
Competition in the supply of pathology services 
62. 
The ACCC has previously found that competition between pathology providers 
may be manifested in one or more of the following ways, which has been 
confirmed in recent market feedback:   


ACL – proposed acquisition of Healius 
 
Page 10 of 30 
• 
Bulk billing levels: The proportion of patients being bulk billed, which 
depends on a pathology provider’s billing policy.   
• 
Prices to privately billed patients: The amount of the gap set by 
pathology providers for privately billed patients. 
• 
Health funds: The rates negotiated under MPPAs between pathology 
providers and private health funds. These rates are reflected in insurance 
premiums. 
• 
Service levels: Pathology providers must comply with minimum standards 
imposed by the National Association of Testing Authorities (NATA), the 
authority for accrediting laboratories in Australia. Nevertheless, pathology 
providers compete on several other service-related aspects, such as 
turnaround times, the number and convenience of ACC locations, opening 
hours of ACCs, range of tests and customer service. 
Veterinary pathology providers 
63. 
There is demand for veterinary pathology services across Australia. The ACCC 
understands that there is overlap between the provision of veterinary pathology 
services by ACL and Healius in Victoria and South Australia with the following 
providers: 
• 
IDEXX (which operates nationally) 
• 
ACE Laboratories (Victoria) 
• 
Animal Referral Hospital Essendon (Victoria) 
• 
Geelong Veterinary Hospital (Victoria) 
• 
Regional Laboratory Services (Victoria) 
• 
Independent Veterinary Pathology (Victoria). 
64. 
Some veterinary pathology providers are funded through universities, including 
the Asia Pacific Centre for Animal Health (University of Melbourne), GreenCross 
Vet / U-Vet (University of Melbourne) and Veterinary Diagnostic Laboratory 
(Charles Sturt University, Adelaide).  
65. 
Several government-funded veterinary pathology laboratories also operate in 
Victoria, including the AgriBio Centre laboratory in Epsom (operated as a joint 
venture between La Trobe University and the Victorian Government’s 
Department of Jobs, Skills, Industries and Regions) and the Australian Centre for 
Disease Preparedness (operated by the CSIRO). 
Future with and without the acquisition  
66. 
In assessing a proposed acquisition under section 50 of the CCA, the ACCC 
considers the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future state of 
competition if the acquisition proceeds (the ’with’ position) to the likely future 
state of competition if the acquisition does not proceed (the ‘without’ position) to 
determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to substantially lessen 
competition in any relevant market. 


ACL – proposed acquisition of Healius 
 
Page 11 of 30 
67. 
The ACCC considers that the likely future competitive environment absent the 
proposed transaction would be the status quo. That is, Healius would continue to 
operate as an independent and effective competitor to ACL in relevant markets. 
Previous ACCC decisions 
68. 
The foundation for ACL’s current business was Healthscope’s former pathology 
businesses, acquired in 2015 by private equity firm Capital Crescent.  
2016 Primary acquisition of pathology assets operated by Healthscope 
(Queensland) (litigation not commenced, following divestment undertakings) 
69. 
On 16 June 2016, the ACCC announced that it had very significant competition 
concerns with Primary Health Care Limited’s (Primary) completed, unnotified 
acquisition of pathology assets operated by Healthscope Limited (Healthscope) 
in Queensland (Primary/Healthscope acquisition). The ACCC considered a 
Queensland-based market for the supply of community pathology services. The 
ACCC also considered, alternatively, separate markets for Brisbane, the Gold 
Coast and Sunshine Coast, where Healthscope provided strong competitive 
constraint. 
70. 
The ACCC's investigation indicated that Healthscope was an important 
constraint preventing Primary and the next nearest competitor, Sonic Healthcare 
Limited (Sonic), from increasing prices or decreasing service quality in the 
relevant markets.  
71. 
The ACCC did not commence proceedings because Primary gave an 
undertaking to divest the assets it had acquired and to transfer relevant 
personnel to an approved purchaser, and Healthscope undertook to divest 
certain pathology assets that it had retained to the same purchaser. 
2013 Sonic / Healthscope merger (Australian Capital Territory/Southern 
tablelands) (not opposed) 
72. 
On 31 January 2013, the ACCC announced its decision to not oppose Sonic 
Healthcare’s proposed acquisition of the pathology business of Healthscope 
Limited in the Australian Capital Territory and Southern Tablelands (New South 
Wales) area. 
73. 
The ACCC concluded that the proposed acquisition was not likely to 
substantially lessen competition, given that: 
• 
Sonic would continue to be constrained by Primary and the public provider, 
ACT Pathology 
• 
ACT Pathology had a significant presence and a policy to always bulk bill 
• 
Primary could expand its presence in the Australian Capital Territory if 
Sonic were to substantially increase price or reduce service levels 
• 
Healthscope did not appear likely to impose a strong competitive constraint 
in this area in the future absent the proposed acquisition. 


ACL – proposed acquisition of Healius 
 
Page 12 of 30 
2012 Sonic / Healthscope merger (partially opposed) 
74. 
On 11 October 2012, the ACCC partially opposed the proposed merger between 
Sonic Healthcare Limited and Healthscope Limited (Sonic/Healthscope 
merger) for the supply of community pathology services in Queensland and 
Western Australia.  
75. 
The ACCC noted that the merger would result in the removal of significant 
competitive constraint in the Queensland market that was not likely to be 
replicated by any existing or new pathology provider post-acquisition. The ACCC 
considered that the events surrounding a change of billing policy by Sonic 
Healthcare Limited in 2009 were a strong indication of the level of inter-
dependence of the billing policies of the pathology providers. The ACCC 
therefore opposed the proposed acquisition of Healthscope’s Queensland 
pathology business. 
76. 
The ACCC concluded that, although the proposed acquisition was likely to 
remove a significant player in Western Australia, it was not likely to substantially 
lessen competition in the Western Australian market as: 
• 
several pathology providers would remain in the Western Australian market 
that would continue to provide a comparable level of competition.  
• 
although Healthscope appeared to be a strong competitor, the competitive 
constraint offered by Healthscope and likely to be offered by Healthscope in 
the future absent the proposed acquisition, did not appear to be 
significantly different or superior to that of other competitors in the Western 
Australian market. 
2013 IDEXX acquisition of veterinary pathology assets of Healthscope (New 
South Wales, Australian Capital Territory and Queensland) (not opposed) 
77. 
On 25 January 2013, the ACCC announced that it would not oppose IDEXX 
Laboratories Pty Limited’s proposed acquisition of the veterinary pathology 
assets of Healthscope Limited in New South Wales, the Australian Capital 
Territory, and Queensland. 
78. 
The ACCC concluded that the proposed acquisition was unlikely to substantially 
lessen competition in the relevant markets because: 
• 
Healthscope (trading as Gribbles at the time) did not appear to impose a 
strong competitive constraint on other veterinary pathology providers in the 
relevant markets in the future absent the proposed acquisition 
• 
other competitive constraints on IDEXX would remain post-acquisition, 
including Primary Health Care (now trading under Healius ‘Vetnostics’), 
smaller specialised laboratories, and some potential new entry. 
Market definition 
79. 
The ACCC’s starting point for considering which markets will be affected by the 
proposed acquisition is to identify the areas of overlap between the products 
actually or potentially supplied by the merger parties. The ACCC then considers 
other actual or potential suppliers of those products, as well as what other 


ACL – proposed acquisition of Healius 
 
Page 13 of 30 
products constitute sufficiently close substitutes to provide a significant source of 
constraint on the merged entity.  
80. 
Noting the overlaps between the parties and for the purposes of this SOI, the 
ACCC is considering the following possible markets:  
• 
the supply of community pathology services in separate state-based 
markets in all states and territories (except in Tasmania, where ACL does 
not operate) 
• 
the supply of public pathology services in Victoria 
• 
the supply of veterinary pathology services in separate state-based markets 
in Victoria and South Australia.  
Community and public pathology services 
Product dimension 
81. 
Pathology services consist of several integrated services, including collecting 
pathology samples, transporting them to a laboratory, processing (testing) the 
samples, generating and delivering reports, and discussing with the referring 
medical practitioner where necessary. 
82. 
Since these activities are integrated and the ACCC is not aware of companies 
active in only one component,7 the ACCC considers it appropriate to regard 
them as forming part of an overall product of providing pathology services. 
83. 
There are three key sources of demand for pathology services: 
• 
out-patients referred by general practitioners and specialists 
• 
private in-patients at public and private hospitals  
• 
public in-patients at public hospitals. 
84. 
Pathology services provided to the first two sources of demand attract an MBS 
rebate. The ACCC has historically considered them together as ‘community 
pathology’.   
85. 
There are some distinctions between out-patient and private-in patient settings, 
despite both being eligible for the MBS rebate. The ACCC is considering 
whether it may be appropriate to further segment community pathology services 
between out-patient and private in-patient services.   
86. 
Some private hospital clinical settings, including emergency and intensive care, 
require rapid turnaround times for tests to be processed.  Consequently, some 
private hospitals require a separate laboratory to be established within their 
premises. There may also be a need for a broader range of tests, including 
esoteric tests (such as skin cancer-related tests) to be collected and processed. 
 
 
7 The ACCC recognises that there is some scope for third parties such as courier companies to be engaged to provide 
transportation. However, this does not appear to occur on any material scale. 


ACL – proposed acquisition of Healius 
 
Page 14 of 30 
87. 
The ACCC understands that this higher standard of testing, in terms of 
turnaround times, volume and breadth of testing, is also a requirement of 
pathology testing in public hospitals. 
88. 
Pathology services provided to public in-patients are covered by a state-based 
funding system and are described as ‘public hospital pathology’. Public hospital 
pathology services are generally: 
• 
carried out in-house by a state-wide public pathology provider or 
• 
undertaken by public pathology providers or commercial pathology 
providers who have been appointed on a long-term contract.  
89. 
Public in-patients are not contestable to pathology providers operating outside of 
these arrangements.  
90. 
The ACCC’s view is that the supply of pathology services to public in-patients 
does not fall within the supply of community pathology services. However, the 
ACCC considers that: 
• 
public pathology providers should be included as actual or potential 
competitors in relation to the supply of community pathology services to 
out-patients (as most public pathology providers offer out-patient services 
or have the potential to do so).   
• 
commercial pathology providers with sufficient capabilities should be 
included as actual or potential competitors in relation to the supply of public 
in-patient pathology services in Victoria.  
91. 
Pathology providers also compete to provide corporate and government 
pathology services. While some corporate customers might require or prefer to 
engage a pathology provider with a national presence, market inquiries have 
indicated that a national presence is not usually required. 
92. 
In addition, in some specialised areas of testing, pathology providers may 
compete with a range of potential suppliers that are not active in the wider 
community pathology markets. Nonetheless, at this stage the ACCC is 
considering corporate and government pathology services as part of the same 
market as community pathology services.  
Geographic dimension 
93. 
The ACCC is still considering the appropriate geographic dimension of the 
relevant markets.  
94. 
On the consumer side, patients are unlikely to travel further than necessary to 
seek pathology testing. Hospital in-patients may be unlikely to travel at all. The 
supply of pathology services therefore has local dimensions.   
95. 
Despite these local dimensions, to the extent market structures are similar 
across geographies, it may be appropriate to apply state or regional markets. For 
the purposes of this SOI, the ACCC has applied state-based markets. However, 
it may ultimately be more appropriate to apply regional or local markets on a 
case-by-case basis.  


ACL – proposed acquisition of Healius 
 
Page 15 of 30 
96. 
On the supply side, market inquiries have indicated that where a sample is 
tested depends on a range of factors, including the type of test and the acuity of 
the clinical setting. Laboratories are typically located close to population centres 
and specimens are generally tested in the same state or territory in which they 
are collected. It is often necessary for a pathology specimen to be tested within 
hours of being collected from a patient.   
97. 
The ACCC is aware of exceptions to this. For example, specimens collected on 
the north coast of New South Wales may be tested in Brisbane. High volume 
tests are often transported to large central laboratories. In regional areas, 
samples are more likely to be sent much further afield if there is insufficient 
demand to support a local laboratory.  
98. 
For the purposes of this SOI, the ACCC is considering the following geographic 
dimensions to the relevant markets: 
• 
regional markets currently defined as each state and territory in Australia 
(except Tasmania, where ACL does not currently compete) for the supply 
of community pathology services  
• 
the state of Victoria for the supply of pathology services to public hospitals 
and public health services.  
Veterinary pathology services 
99. 
The ACCC has previously considered that there are state-based markets for the 
provision of veterinary pathology services for all types of animals, including 
companion animals and livestock.  
100. Veterinary pathology services are provided to veterinarians who treat companion 
or production animals. They are distinct from human pathology services, with 
specialist veterinary pathologists and no government funding arrangements.  
101. ACL provides veterinary pathology services in South Australia and Victoria, 
whilst Healius provides veterinary pathology services in all states and territories. 
Market feedback indicated veterinary pathology services are distinct from human 
pathology services. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary views about 
the definition of the relevant market(s). Market participants may wish to comment on: 
• 
whether out-patient and private in-patient services should be considered together 
as part of community pathology services  
• 
whether narrow or broad geographic markets are applicable for community 
pathology services 
• 
the extent to which geographic differences (including between metropolitan and 
regional areas) for the provision of community pathology are consistent in all 
relevant states and territories 
• 
product and geographic dimensions of veterinary pathology services in Victoria 
and South Australia, including whether there are distinctions between pathology 
services between livestock and companion animals. 


ACL – proposed acquisition of Healius 
 
Page 16 of 30 
Issue of concern: Substantial lessening of competition in 
state-based markets for community pathology services (all 
states and territories except Tasmania) 
102. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in the supply of community pathology services in 
all states and territories (except Tasmania, where ACL does not operate). 
103. As outlined in the following sections, this is because:  
• 
the transaction would significantly increase concentration in already 
concentrated markets for the supply of community pathology services 
• 
ACL and Healius are close competitors in the supply of these services  
• 
competitive constraints from existing suppliers vary, but few have the same 
scale and breadth of operations as the merger parties  
• 
new entry or expansion is unlikely to replace competitive tension lost 
through the proposed acquisition 
• 
there is potential for anti-competitive effects, including price and non-price.   
Significant change to structural conditions for competition  
104. The supply of community pathology services is concentrated in every state and 
territory in which the parties overlap (all states and territories except Tasmania). 
The proposed acquisition would significantly increase concentration in all 
relevant markets.  
105. There has been a trend of consolidation over the past decade via acquisitions. 
Market participants noted that ACL, Healius and Sonic have made acquisitions 
over the past decade, including:    
• 
ACL’s acquisition of Medlab Pathology in 2021 
• 
ACL’s acquisitions of not-for-profit pathology provider St John of God 
Pathology and Perth Pathology in 2016 
• 
Sonic’s acquisition of Healthscope’s pathology businesses in Queensland, 
Western Australia, and the Australian Capital Territory in 2013. 
106. The ACCC has calculated market share estimates for the supply of community 
pathology services in each relevant state or territory. To do so, the ACCC has 
used publicly available data identifying ACCs for each accredited pathology 
provider as of 19 April 2023.8  
107. The number of ACCs reflects a pathology provider’s collection capacity for out-
patients. This metric does not include collection bins or private in-patient 
 
 
8  Medicare publishes statistics relating to the number of ACCs owned by each pathology provider – see  Department 
of Human Services, Approved Collection Centres for Pathology Services, DHS, Canberra, 2023. This data is updated 
on a regular basis by the Department of Human Services. There is likely to be some variance in the total number of 
ACCs per state or territory between the sample date and publication of this Statement of Issues. Notwithstanding this, 
data collected as at 19 April 2023 is representative of ACL and Healius’ presence in each state and territory as ACC 
numbers do not change significantly over short periods of time. 


ACL – proposed acquisition of Healius 
 
Page 17 of 30 
services. Market participants have indicated revenues and volumes (i.e., 
confidential information) are likely to be more accurate metrics for estimating 
market shares. Nevertheless, the ACCC is using ACC numbers in this Statement 
of Issues in order to give an approximate indication of market shares in 
community pathology services without disclosing confidential information.  
108. The market share estimates below indicate the merged entity would become the 
largest provider of community pathology services in New South Wales and 
Australian Capital Territory (combined), Victoria, Queensland, Western Australia, 
South Australia and the Northern Territory. Sonic would be the second largest 
provider in these jurisdictions.  
109. The market share of each remaining competitor is substantially less than the 
market shares of the merged entity or Sonic. Post-acquisition, the merged entity 
and Sonic between them would account for more than 75 per cent market share 
in all relevant jurisdictions. 
110. Using these figures, HHI9 estimates show pre-acquisition values of more than 
2,000 and increases of at least 400 in all states and territories in which ACL and 
Healius overlap.  
Table 2.1: Market share estimates for New South Wales and the Australian 
Capital Territory by ACC (19 April 2023) 
ACT/NSW 
Competitor  
No. of ACCs  
Share of 
ACCs  
ACL 
447 
19.2% 
Healius 
732 
31.5% 
Combined 
1179 
50.7% 
Sonic 
739 
31.8% 
4Cyte 
178 
7.7% 
NSW Health Pathology 
163 
7.0% 
Sydpath / St Vincent's Pathology 
29 
1.2% 
Medihealth Pathology 
21 
0.9% 
ACT Pathology 
7 
0.3% 
Austech Medical Labs 
6 
0.3% 
Austin Pathology 
2 
0.1% 
Total 
2324 
100.0% 
  
 
 
9  Please refer to page 35 of the ACCC's Merger Guidelines for discussion of the Herfindahl-Hirschman Index (HHI). 


ACL – proposed acquisition of Healius 
 
Page 18 of 30 
Table 2.2: Market share estimates for Victoria by ACC (19 April 2023) 
VIC 
Competitor  
No. of ACCs  
Share of 
ACCs  
ACL 
470 
25.5% 
Healius 
533 
29.0% 
Combined 
1003 
54.5% 
Sonic 
402 
21.8% 
4Cyte 
311 
16.9% 
Sydpath / St Vincent's Pathology 
67 
3.6% 
Austin Pathology 
23 
1.3% 
Monash Health Pathology 
18 
1.0% 
Eastern Health 
5 
0.3% 
Northern Pathology Victoria 
5 
0.3% 
Alfred Pathology Services 
4 
0.2% 
Melbourne Health 
2 
0.1% 
Total 
1840 
100.0% 
 
Table 2.3: Market share estimates for Queensland by ACC (19 April 2023) 
QLD 
Competitor  
No. of ACCs  
Share of 
ACCs  
ACL 
73 
5.4% 
Healius 
534 
39.6% 
Combined 
607 
45.0% 
Sonic 
437 
32.4% 
4Cyte 
230 
17.0% 
Pathology Queensland 
38 
2.8% 
Mater Pathology 
37 
2.7% 
Total 
1349 
100.0% 
 


ACL – proposed acquisition of Healius 
 
Page 19 of 30 
Table 2.4: Market share estimates for Western Australia by ACC (19 April 2023) 
WA 
Competitor  
No. of ACCs  
Share of 
ACCs  
ACL 
172 
25.6% 
Healius 
205 
30.5% 
Combined 
377 
56.0% 
Sonic 
217 
32.2% 
PathWest 
78 
11.6% 
Saturn Pathology 
1 
0.1% 
Total 
673 
100.0% 
 
Table 2.5: Market share estimates for South Australia by ACC (19 April 2023) 
SA 
Competitor  
No. of ACCs  
Share of 
ACCs  
ACL 
153 
32.9% 
Healius 
32 
6.9% 
Combined 
185 
39.8% 
Sonic 
164 
35.3% 
SA Pathology 
116 
24.9% 
Total 
465 
100.0% 
 
Table 2.6: Market share estimates for Northern Territory by ACC (19 April 2023) 
NT 
Competitor  
No. of ACCs  
Share of 
ACCs  
ACL 
14 
31.1% 
Healius 
18 
40.0% 
Combined 
32 
71.1% 
Sonic 
7 
15.6% 
Territory Pathology 
6 
13.3% 
Grand Total 
45 
100.0% 
 
 
ACL and Healius compete closely with one another  
111. ACL and Healius appear to be close competitors in the supply of community 
pathology services in the states and territories in which they overlap. This is 
because they have established: 
• 
wide coverage of their ACCs 


ACL – proposed acquisition of Healius 
 
Page 20 of 30 
• 
wide coverage of their courier networks 
• 
a full range of pathology testing capability 
• 
networks of laboratories, including in regional centres 
• 
widespread recognition of their subsidiary brands 
• 
extensive relationships with referring medical practitioners. 
112. Market participants have submitted that ACL and Healius compete closely for 
ACC sites and lose sites to one another each year.  
113. Both ACL and Healius have the expertise and scale to provide pathology 
services to private in-patients and will often compete for tender processes to 
secure contracts with private hospitals. The ACCC has heard that ACL and 
Healius compete strongly for private hospital tenders.  
114. Whilst ACL and Healius are close competitors, the extent to which they compete 
may vary between each state or territory. Some market participants consider 
Healius less competitive in SA, where it has a smaller share of ACCs than either 
ACL or Sonic. By contrast, some market participants viewed ACL as being less 
competitive in QLD, where it maintains a smaller share of ACCs than Healius, 
Sonic and 4Cyte.  
Competitive constraint from alternative providers 
Alternative commercial pathology providers 
115. There are alternative commercial pathology providers that operate in individual 
states, with a small network of ACCs. However, the only comparable commercial 
competitors to ACL and Healius, given their scale and scope, are Sonic and to a 
lesser extent 4Cyte.  
116. Based on current share of ACCs, Sonic maintains a comparable market share to 
the merger parties, in every relevant state and territory except the Northern 
Territory, where ACL and Healius maintain more than twice as many ACCs as 
Sonic.  
117. Post-merger, Sonic would be the next largest provider, but it would account for a 
significantly smaller share of the market, particularly in New South 
Wales/Australian Capital Territory (combined), Victoria and Western Australia. 
4Cyte only operates in New South Wales, Queensland and Victoria. On average, 
Sonic only maintains between 7-17% share of ACCs in these jurisdictions.  
118. Considering the above, the merged entity would face a limited competitive 
constraint from alternative commercial pathology providers post-merger. 
119. Whilst some market participants viewed Sonic as a relatively strong competitor, 
others considered that it has been focused on overseas operations and has 
been less aggressive in terms of expanding its ACC footprint in Australia 
(including in rural and regional areas).   
Niche, not-for-profit and public pathology providers 
120. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that niche, not-for-profit and public pathology 
providers are unlikely to impose a significant competitive constraint on the 


ACL – proposed acquisition of Healius 
 
Page 21 of 30 
merged entity. They lack the extensive ACC footprint, broad service offering, and 
substantial economies of scale to viably replicate the closeness of competition 
between ACL and Healius. 
121. Public pathology services face higher cost structures and are weaker 
competitors to ACL or Healius. These higher cost structures are a result of 
operating in service areas where profits are marginal or negative and performing 
certain high-cost, complex tests (some of which are referred by commercial 
providers). 
122. Public providers also receive smaller MBS payments than private providers for 
the same services such that they may have less capacity to compete for ACC 
opportunities.  
Competitive constraint in relation to private in-patient services  
123. In relation to private in-patient services, market feedback has indicated that ACL, 
Healius and Sonic are currently the only providers of private in-patient services. 
The ACCC understands that in some regional areas ACL and Healius are the 
only competitors, so would face limited competitive constraints if the proposed 
transaction proceeds. 
124. Additionally, smaller providers do not have sufficient scale, infrastructure, and 
reputation to supply private in-patient services. The ACCC also understands that 
4Cyte does not currently compete for private in-patient services. 
Barriers to entry or expansion and likelihood of new entry 
125. The ACCC is considering whether new entry or expansion would be likely, timely 
and sufficient to prevent a substantial lessening of competition that might 
otherwise result from the proposed acquisition. 
Barriers to entry or expansion 
126. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that there are significant barriers to new entry 
and expansion, which is consistent with previous consideration of this industry.  
127. The ACCC has identified the following key obstacles to pathology providers 
establishing or expanding their market share: 
• 
 Access to referrals 
1) Incumbent firms hold an advantage over new entrants by 
maintaining a strong flow of pathology referrals. 
New entrants may need to expend significant time and effort over 
a substantial period to establish a positive reputation with referring 
medical practitioners. By contrast, incumbent firms seeking to 
expand may leverage their existing relationships with medical 
practitioners to increase their pathology referral flows. Brand and 
reputation, including with respect to timeliness, accuracy and 
reliability of results, are important to medical practitioners.  
Providers can then leverage these relationships with medical 
practitioners to assist with securing co-located ACCs at GP 
practices (discussed further below).  


ACL – proposed acquisition of Healius 
 
Page 22 of 30 
2) Whilst some practitioners may be willing to switch ACC provider 
when offered a higher rental fee, there may be costs associated 
with switching between pathology providers. These could include 
uncertainty in the quality of service provided by an alternative 
pathology provider, and familiarity with a pathology provider’s IT 
or reporting systems. 
3) Referrals can also be a pathway to securing pathology tests from 
collection bins in allied health facilities such as nursing and aged 
care homes. New entrants would find it difficult to establish 
referral pathways with these facilities given existing commercial 
relationships and uncertainty around quality of service. 
• 
 Availability of suitable locations  
1) A new entrant faces significant challenges establishing a footprint 
of profitable ACCs. The ACCC has previously found that most of 
the ACCs opened following deregulation in 2010 were ‘defensive’ 
or designed to support an existing referral base rather than 
capture additional volume. 
2) ACCs co-located with GP practices, particularly large GP 
practices, are the most profitable as they generate the greatest 
throughput. Key reasons for this include that some patients will 
take a pathology test immediately before or after a medical 
appointment at the GP clinic; and that GPs at such practices 
typically use the branded referral forms of the on-site pathology 
provider, and their patients then typically attend an ACC of that 
pathology provider. At present, the availability of profitable ACC 
locations is dependent on the growth of new medical practices or 
a change in provider at existing practices. The ACCC also 
understands that many desirable locations have been ‘locked up’ 
in long-term leases.  
3) Barriers to establishing ACCs that are not co-located in medical 
practices are lower. However, market participants have indicated 
that such ACCs typically generate significantly fewer referrals, and 
insufficient testing volumes to support significant new entry.  
• 
 Economies of scale  
1) The ACCC understands that pathology services carry significant 
fixed overheads. This is particularly the case with respect to 
laboratories. 
2) The ACCC understands ACL and Healius have expanded their 
referral base gradually over time to reach their current scale. A 
new entrant may be deterred by the risk of not reaching a 
minimum competitive scale in a reasonable timeframe to offset 
sunk costs associated with entering. 
Likelihood of new entry or expansion 
128. For the reasons identified above, the ACCC considers the likelihood of profitable 
incremental new entry or expansion is low.  
129. Thus far in its review, the ACCC has identified few examples of new entry in 
recent years. The largest new entrant is 4Cyte, which commenced operations in 
2018 in New South Wales and has expanded into Victoria and Queensland. At 


ACL – proposed acquisition of Healius 
 
Page 23 of 30 
present, 4Cyte provides services in out-patient settings, it does not offer services 
to in-patients. 4Cyte is smaller than each of ACL and Healius in the states it 
operates, except for Queensland where it has a larger presence than ACL. Post-
acquisition, 4Cyte would be significantly smaller than the merged entity in all 
states where it operates.  
130. Market feedback suggests 4Cyte’s entry and growth resulted from a unique 
combination of circumstances – including increased demand for pathology 
services during the COVID-19 pandemic. 4Cyte appears unlikely to continue 
growing at the same rate and its entry and expansion appears unlikely to be 
replicated by others.  
131. Other new entrants in recent years include Saturn Pathology (operating only in 
Western Australia) and Medihealth (operating only in New South Wales).  
132. While market participants noted some pathology providers expanded during the 
pandemic, they also considered such providers have generally returned, or are 
returning, to their pre-COVID market position. 
ACCC considering likely effects of the proposed acquisition on relevant markets  
133. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition, with the potential for price and non-price 
effects. 
Price effects for out-patients 
134. The ACCC considers that the strong market position of the merged entity would 
provide it with the ability to unilaterally increase prices for out-patients. Price 
increases could include the increased application of private billing which could 
occur initially at specific locations/in specific regions, or for individual tests.  
135. As mentioned above at paragraph 24, the MBS rate for bulk billed pathology 
tests is covered by the Commonwealth Government. Most pathology tests are 
covered by the MBS rate. Pathology providers have the choice of maintaining 
bulk billing policies or privately billing. 
136. In 2009, the Commonwealth Government introduced a Bulk Billing Incentive 
(BBI), a payment to pathology providers (and other medical practitioners) for bulk 
billing MBS-eligible services. The BBI is paid for relevant services provided that 
an additional out-of-pocket fee is not charged to patients. The ACCC 
understands that the BBI rate may be amended by the Government. 
137. Therefore, there are strong incentives for bulk billing. The majority of out-patient 
tests are bulk billed at present. To be profitable, private billing must be at such a 
level that it covers the lack of a BBI, additional risks associated with billing 
patients privately (such as the risk of non-payment by patients) and volumes lost 
to competitors which retain a bulk billing policy.  
138. Nevertheless, the ACCC is concerned that increased market consolidation 
resulting from the proposed acquisition would make private billing more viable. 
The merged firm would represent a significant share of ACCs and testing 
capacity, such that it can expect to lose fewer tests to competitors than would be 
the case absent the acquisition. This may give rise to scenarios in which the 
merged firm may profitably engage in private billing in certain regions, 


ACL – proposed acquisition of Healius 
 
Page 24 of 30 
particularly those where there are fewer competitors or where the merged firm 
would potentially face less competitive constraint.   
139. The ACCC notes market participants have identified an alternative means of 
increasing ‘price’. This would involve the introduction of membership fees or 
establishing a ‘gold card’ system granting patients priority service at ACCs. 
These alternative means of increasing prices could avoid some of the practical 
challenges with private billing identified at paragraph 29. 
140. The ACCC also notes that there may be a circumstance in which private billing 
by incumbent firms pressures the Commonwealth Government to increase 
funding under the MBS rate or BBI, to ensure public access to bulk billed 
services. This is an alternative means of increasing price and may become more 
likely if the merged firm has an increased ability to introduce private billing.  
141. The proposed merger may also see price effects for medical practices with co-
located ACC sites. With reduced competitive tension post-acquisition, the 
merged entity would likely have an ability to offer lower rental payments for 
suitable ACC locations. 
Price effects for private in-patients  
142. Reduced competitive tension for private in-patient services could lead to price 
effects through increased prevalence and cost of private billing to patients and 
reduced rental payments to hospitals.  
143. Unlike out-patient services, private in-patients are often charged co-payments 
with a balance covered by a ‘gap’ payment depending on the level of private 
health insurance held by a patient. The ACCC understands private hospitals 
consider the extent of private billing when selecting pathology provider. It 
therefore appears likely that the proposed merger would lead to increases in 
private billing. 
Non-price effects for out-patients   
144. Some market participants have expressed the view that, as Commonwealth 
Government funding mechanisms have effectively signalled a ‘market price’ for 
pathology testing, firms tend to compete strongly on non-price factors. 
145. The ACCC is concerned that non-price aspects of competition, including quality 
or service, may decline post-acquisition. Market participants have identified the 
following non-price factors as important to patients and doctors in community 
pathology services:  
• 
turnaround times 
• 
accuracy 
• 
ACC staff levels and patient wait times 
• 
ACC opening hours 
• 
convenience / availability of ACCs in a local area. 
146. The ACCC notes there may be differences in non-price effects between regional 
and metro areas. Market participants have identified concerns that ACCs would 


ACL – proposed acquisition of Healius 
 
Page 25 of 30 
be consolidated in rural and regional areas. Consolidation appears less likely in 
metropolitan areas where barriers to establishing new ACCs may be lower.  
Non-price effects for in-patients  
147. The ACCC is also concerned about potential decreases in services for private 
hospitals. Market feedback suggests that the post-merger entity could leverage 
its market position to obtain more favourable terms in lease agreements with 
private hospitals or decrease service quality to private in-patients (such as by 
decreasing staffing levels at on-site laboratories or limiting collection frequency 
for non-urgent testing).  
Efficiencies  
148. In its initial Takeover Offer, ACL suggests the transaction would result in up to 
$95 million in cost synergies through laboratory consolidation and logistics 
optimisation, procurement benefits and back-office consolidation.10 
149. To the extent efficiencies are likely, the ACCC is considering whether the 
benefits are likely to be passed on to consumers through lower prices or 
improved services. This is unlikely to occur unless the savings are variable cost 
savings and there is sufficient competition post-acquisition to compel the merged 
entity to pass a significant portion of those savings through.  
150. The ACCC has heard concerns that laboratory and logistics consolidation may in 
fact lead to reductions in service quality, such as increased turnaround times.  
ACCC’s preliminary views 
151. In summary, the ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition appears likely 
to substantially lessen competition in the provision of community pathology 
services in the states and territories in which the parties overlap. ACL and 
Healius appear to compete closely with one another and the market is unlikely to 
self-correct via significant new entry or expansion. There is potential for price 
and non-price effects from such a significant reduction in competition.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to 
reduced competition in community pathology services. Market participants may wish to 
comment on the following: 
• 
the extent of competitive constraint imposed on ACL and Healius by other 
pathology providers, including Sonic and 4Cyte 
• 
the significance of ‘collection bins’ to competition for out-patient pathology services 
• 
the likelihood of new entry or expansion, given the need for new firms to reach a 
minimum competitive scale and the incremental, gradual nature of expansion 
• 
for existing competitors, what factors inform whether you enter or expand into a 
new region  
 
 
10Australian Clinical Labs Ltd, Investor Presentation – Takeover Offer of Healius, 20 March 2023.  


ACL – proposed acquisition of Healius 
 
Page 26 of 30 
• 
any recent examples (e.g., from the last 5 to 7 years) of how pathology providers 
have introduced private billing in out-patient settings, including which tests, regions 
and time periods it applied to 
• 
any examples of acquisitions of pathology providers leading to increases in price or 
reductions in service/quality for private in-patient services.  
Issue of concern: Increased likelihood of coordinated 
outcomes in community pathology services 
152. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in the supply of community pathology services 
through an increased likelihood of coordinated conduct. The acquisition would 
lead to a significant structural change in market conditions, which may increase 
the potential for coordinated market outcomes.  
153. The ACCC has previously examined changes in billing policy by Sonic in 2009 to 
privately bill a greater proportion of patients, which was subsequently reversed in 
early 2010.11  The ACCC considers that previous contemplation of private billing 
as indicative of potential commercial opportunities that the merged firm may 
consider post-acquisition. 
154. Post-acquisition, the merged entity and Sonic would be the two largest pathology 
providers in with at least 75% market share between them (using ACC numbers 
as a proxy). The ACCC is concerned this may enhance the ability for these 
providers to coordinate their market offerings. 
155. The ACCC has heard strong concerns from market participants that such 
coordination may be likely. Citing the previous attempt by Sonic to increase 
prices in 2009, market participants submitted that if the merged entity were to 
introduce co-payments or otherwise raise prices, Sonic would be likely to 
accommodate them.  
156. The ACCC is considering whether market conditions in community pathology 
services are conducive to coordinated market outcomes. Relevant factors 
include:  
• 
The merged entity and Sonic would together account for a significant 
proportion of pathology services in each state and territory. Patients may 
have few alternatives, particularly in rural and regional areas.  
• 
Pricing and service levels are somewhat observable between competitors, 
at least to the extent of whether providers are bulk billing. Pathology 
providers are likely to rapidly become aware of changes to bulk billing 
practices through industry contacts. 
• 
Post-acquisition, the merged entity and Sonic would overlap in every state 
and territory and would have significant regional and local overlaps as well. 
They would also overlap with respect to all, or substantially all, types of 
 
 
11 See PCA, Sonic / Healthscope 2013: https://www.accc.gov.au/system/files/public-
registers/documents/MER13%2B7337.pdf.  


ACL – proposed acquisition of Healius 
 
Page 27 of 30 
pathology tests. This may provide the merged entity and Sonic with 
opportunities to coordinate and/or retaliate against each other.  
• 
As discussed above, significant new entry or expansion appears unlikely. 
The threat of new entry may not be sufficient to competitively constrain the 
merged entity and Sonic on any coordinated conduct. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to the 
potential for increased coordination in community pathology services. Market 
participants may wish to comment on the following: 
• 
whether, and if so how, the proposed acquisition increases the likelihood of 
coordinated competitive outcomes in community pathology  
• 
whether competitors, such as 4Cyte, could rapidly expand in response to 
reductions in bulk-billing 
• 
any examples of competitors coordinating conduct in the supply of community 
pathology, for example by instituting price increases or reductions in service at 
approximately the same time.  
Issue of concern: Reduced competition in the supply of 
pathology services to public hospitals/public health 
services in Victoria 
157. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in the supply of pathology to public hospitals 
and public health services in Victoria.  
158. ACL and Healius are the most significant private pathology providers competing 
to service public hospitals and public health services in Victoria. Following the 
proposed acquisition, the merged entity would face limited competition in the 
supply of pathology services to public hospitals and public health services in 
Victoria. 
ACL and Healius compete closely for public hospital services in Victoria 
159. In Victoria, a substantial portion of public pathology is outsourced through 
competitive tenders.  
160. Not all pathology providers possess the necessary scale and infrastructure to 
meet the service requirements of public hospitals.  ACL and Healius are two of 
three providers with this capability, alongside Sonic.  
161. The ACCC understands that ACL and Healius have historically competed for 
public hospital tenders and have often been the only providers to do so. 
Feedback suggests this is particularly the case for regional areas of Victoria. 
Market participants submitted that Sonic usually does not compete for public 
hospital contracts. 
Barriers to entry or expansion and likelihood of new entry  
162. The ACCC considers that the barriers to entry or expansion for pathology 
services in public hospitals to be high, noting the following factors: 


ACL – proposed acquisition of Healius 
 
Page 28 of 30 
• 
Scale and breadth of services  
1) Public hospitals require a full suite of pathology testing, including 
esoteric tests. Operating theatres also require tight turnaround 
times for collection results. In addition, hospitals require regular 
collection of pathology samples to accompany ward rounds. A 
new entrant would likely need to invest significant sunk costs to 
ensure they can operate and staff a laboratory onsite and can 
draw on a broader network to offer the breadth of testing required 
by hospitals.  
• 
Reputation  
1) Noting the time-critical nature of pathology testing in hospital 
environments, existing firms would have a reputation, developed 
over time, to ensure high confidence ratings in their testing 
procedures. A new entrant would have difficulty in overcoming 
perceptions of reliability and consistency from known providers 
such as ACL and Healius. 
163. Market participants have indicated that Sonic and 4Cyte do not compete 
significantly, or at all in 4Cyte’s case, for public hospital contracts in Victoria. 
This particularly applies to regional areas of Victoria. It appears unlikely that 
4Cyte would have sufficient scale to service the breadth and volume of testing 
required in public hospital settings, nor would they have the existing reputation 
for quality in hospital settings to convincingly tender for public hospital contracts.  
164. The ACCC understands Sonic may not have a significant presence in some 
regional areas of Victoria and consequently may face significant hurdles to 
competing in these areas. The competitive constraint from these providers may 
therefore differ between metropolitan and regional areas. The ACCC is 
considering these regional differences further.  
165. The potential entry of public pathology providers is discussed below. 
Entry or expansion by public pathology providers, and potential countervailing 
power of the Victorian Government  
166. There are public pathology providers operating in Victoria that are often tied to 
public hospital providers. For example, Austin Pathology predominantly services 
the Austin Hospital in Victoria.  
167. The ACCC understands that, historically, these providers have been: 
• 
unlikely to assume contracts requiring the operation of laboratories in other 
hospitals 
• 
likely to provide collection services to public hospitals in the region around 
the base hospital.  
168. As a result, the current competitive constraints imposed by public pathology 
providers differs between metropolitan and regional areas of Victoria.  
169. The ACCC is considering whether the Victorian Government has countervailing 
power with respect to public in-patient pathology services. Some public 
pathology services are in-sourced to public providers. The ACCC has heard that 
some contracts with commercial providers have been in-sourced in recent years.  


ACL – proposed acquisition of Healius 
 
Page 29 of 30 
170. The ACCC understands there are several public hospitals and public health 
services in Victoria operating largely independently of one another. For at least 
some of these entities, in-sourcing may not be an option in the short to medium 
term. 
Possible effects for public hospitals  
171. Post-acquisition, the merged entity may be able to charge more and offer less for 
its services to public hospitals in Victoria. The ACCC has heard that pathology 
providers typically charge on a per test basis. Services focus significantly on 
turnaround times and accuracy. These factors are negotiated as part of 
competitive tenders.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to 
reduced competition for public in-patient services in Victoria, post-merger. Market 
participants may wish to comment on:  
• 
whether the threat of in-sourcing is likely to significantly constrain the merged firm 
in bidding for tenders for out-patient services 
• 
the likelihood of new entry or expansion by other providers (such as Sonic, 4Cyte 
and public providers) into the supply of public in-patient services in Victoria.  
Issue that may raise concerns: Reduced competition in 
separate state-based markets for the supply of veterinary 
pathology services in Victoria and South Australia 
172. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition may substantially 
lessen competition in the supply of veterinary pathology services in separate 
state markets for Victoria and South Australia. 
Barriers to entry 
173. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that there may be significant barriers to entry for 
the provision of veterinary pathology services, including: 
• 
Establishing referral networks   
1) Veterinary pathology services are referred by veterinarians or 
other buyers of veterinary pathology services. The ACCC 
understands that new entrants would find it difficult to surmount 
existing commercial relationships that incumbent firms have 
developed with veterinarians. 
• 
Economies of scale  
1) Veterinary pathology requires sunk costs in establishing a 
laboratory capable of processing a wide variety of pathology 
specimens (including across different animal species). There are 
additional costs in hiring laboratory staff with the expertise to 
process and analyse a wide variety of pathology specimens.  
2) The ACCC’s preliminary assessment is that, as per community 
pathology services, new entrants would need to reach a minimum 
competitive scale to offset the sunk costs in establishing 


ACL – proposed acquisition of Healius 
 
Page 30 of 30 
operations, and that expansion via referral networks often occurs 
in a gradual and incremental manner. 
Availability of alternative providers 
174. Market participants have submitted that the supply of veterinary pathology 
services is concentrated, often citing IDEXX, ACL and Healius as the key 
competitors. IDEXX is consistently cited as a dominant competitor. 
175. Given the increase in market concentration in the South Australian and Victorian 
veterinary pathology services post-acquisition, competition concerns may arise 
in these markets if the merged entity is not constrained by alternative providers 
post-acquisition.   
176. The ACCC is considering the level of competitive constraint that government-
funded laboratories and university-based laboratories impose on ACL and 
Healius. 
177. There are also smaller private veterinary pathology providers. The ACCC is 
considering the competitive constraint from these pathology providers and their 
ability to expand in the event of price increases or reductions in service levels.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to 
reduced competition for the provision of veterinary pathology services across each 
state and/or territory in Australia. The ACCC is interested in the following:  
• 
identifying all competitors in the supply of vet pathology services in Victoria and 
South Australia, along with their estimated share of supply in each state  
• 
the extent of barriers to entry and expansion, including the extent of barriers for 
human pathology providers entering the supply of veterinary pathology 
• 
the extent to which vet pathology providers compete across state boundaries.  
ACCC's future steps 
178. The ACCC invites submissions from market participants on each of the issues 
identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that may be relevant 
to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. Submissions should be emailed to 
mergers@accc.gov.au by no later than 10 August 2023. 
179. The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
180. The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 12 October 2023. 
However, the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment explaining the 
ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's public announcement. 
