Page 1 of 13 
 
Public Competition Assessment 
16 December 2025 
Australian Clinical Labs – proposed acquisition of Healius  
The ACCC’s decision 
1. 
On 15 December 2023, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission 
(ACCC) announced its decision to oppose the proposed acquisition by Australian 
Clinical Labs Limited (ACL) of Healius Limited (Healius) (the proposed 
acquisition). 
2. 
The ACCC considered that the proposed acquisition was likely to contravene 
section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the Act). Section 50 
prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, 
of substantially lessening competition in any market. 
3. 
The ACCC considered the competitive effects of the proposed acquisition in the 
markets for: 
▪ 
the supply of pathology services to out-patients in local, regional and/or 
state areas in Australia 
▪ 
the supply of pathology services to private hospital in-patients in state 
areas and/or across Australia 
▪ 
the supply of pathology services to commercial and government 
customers across Australia 
▪ 
the supply of pathology services to public hospitals in Victoria 
▪ 
the supply of veterinary pathology services in Victoria and South Australia. 
4. 
The ACCC considered that the proposed acquisition would be likely to result in a 
substantial lessening of competition as it would combine two of the three 
largest providers of pathology services in Australia, further consolidating 
already-concentrated markets for the supply of pathology services to out-
patients, private hospital in-patients, and commercial and government 
customers.  
5. 
While the ACCC also considered the effect of the proposed acquisition in the 
markets for the supply of pathology services to public hospitals in Victoria, and 


 
Page 2 of 13 
veterinary pathology services in Victoria and South Australia, the ACCC did not 
arrive at a concluded view as to whether the proposed acquisition would 
substantially lessen competition in these markets. 
6. 
Please note that this and other public competition assessments are subject to 
the following qualifications: 
▪ 
The ACCC considers each transaction on a case-by-case basis and so the 
analysis and decision outlined in one assessment will not necessarily 
reflect the ACCC’s view of another transaction. 
▪ 
As assessments are relatively brief and do not refer to confidential 
information, assessments do not necessarily set out all of the issues and 
information considered by the ACCC.  
▪ 
The ACCC’s findings and conclusions set out in this public competition 
assessment reflect information available to the ACCC at the time of its 
decision and do not reflect developments in the industry subsequent to the 
ACCC’s decision. 
The parties and the transaction 
The acquirer: Australian Clinical Labs Limited 
7. 
ACL is an ASX-listed Australian provider of pathology services (ASX:ACL). ACL 
provides human pathology services to out-patients, in-patients (of public and 
private hospitals), and commercial and government customers. 
8. 
At the time of the ACCC’s consideration, ACL provided human pathology 
services through its wholly owned subsidiary Clinical Labs Pty Ltd. ACL operated 
Approved Collection Centres and National Association of Testing Authorities 
(NATA) accredited laboratories Australia-wide except in Tasmania.  
9. 
ACL provided veterinary pathology services in South Australia and Victoria 
through its Gribbles Veterinary brand. 
10. 
ACL operated 31 SunDoctors skin cancer clinics in NSW, Queensland, Victoria 
and South Australia through Southern Sun Clinics Pty Ltd. 
The target: Healius Limited 
11. 
Healius (ASX:HLS), which traded as Primary Health Care Limited until November 
2018, is an ASX-listed Australian provider of pathology services to out-patients 
and in-patients (of private and public hospitals), and commercial and 
government customers. 
12. 
At the time of the ACCC’s consideration, Healius provided human pathology 
services through Specialist Diagnostic Services Pty Ltd operating under various 
brands in all Australian states and territories. Its brands included Laverty 
Pathology (NSW/ACT), Dorevitch Pathology (Victoria), QML Pathology 
(Queensland), Abbott Pathology (South Australia), Western Diagnostic Pathology 
(Western Australia and Northern Territory) and TML Pathology (Tasmania). 


 
Page 3 of 13 
13. 
Healius also provided veterinary pathology services through its Vetpath (Western 
Australia and Northern Territory), Vetnostics (NSW/ACT), QML Vetnostics 
(Queensland), TML Vetnostic (Tasmania) and Australian Specialised Animal 
Pathology Laboratory (South Australia and Victoria) brands. 
The transaction 
14. 
On 20 March 2023, ACL announced that it was seeking to acquire all the fully 
paid ordinary shares in Healius by way of an off-market takeover offer. 
15. 
On 22 December 2023, following the ACCC’s decision to oppose the proposed 
acquisition, ACL announced that it had withdrawn its takeover offer.  
Market inquiries 
16. 
The ACCC conducted market inquiries with a range of industry participants, 
including competitors, potential competitors, customers, industry bodies, other 
regulatory agencies and other interested parties.  
Industry background 
Pathology testing 
17. 
The supply of pathology testing services involves the analysis of medical 
samples collected from patients such as blood tests. Pathology testing can be 
divided into the following four broad categories and relevant sub-specialties: 
▪ 
biochemistry (chemical pathology, immunology, infertility and pregnancy 
tests) 
▪ 
haematology 
▪ 
microbiology 
▪ 
histopathology and cytopathology (sometimes referred to as histology and 
cytology). 
18. 
Testing for different sub-specialities is automated to varying degrees. 
Biochemistry and haematology tend to be more highly automated and generate 
the highest pathology test volumes. Consequently, there are significant 
economies of scale associated with the supply of these tests. Histology, 
cytology and microbiology tend to require greater manual preparation of 
samples, analysis, and interpretation of test results. 
Pathology collection 
19. 
Pathology samples are collected from patients via various channels, including at: 
▪ 
Approved Collection Centres or pathology collection centres staffed by a 
pathology provider 


 
Page 4 of 13 
▪ 
collection bins in medical practices, specialist practices or other allied 
health facilities such as aged care and nursing homes, where a pathology 
provider can collect referred samples 
▪ 
public and private hospitals and clinics. 
20. 
The ACCC is not aware of any full-service providers solely collecting samples by 
using collection bins. Approved Collection Centres can be ‘co-located’ at medical 
practices (by sub-leasing part of a medical practice) or ‘standalone’ at an 
independent site. 
21. 
The ACCC understands that the majority of private hospitals and clinics can 
effectively be serviced by an Approved Collection Centre with testing taking 
place at a central laboratory, with smaller day hospitals and clinics typically 
using collection bins as the volume of their pathology samples is insufficient to 
require an Approved Collection Centre. In relation to private hospitals, the 
ACCC’s review focused on private hospitals and clinics that require onsite 
laboratories due to the need for fast turnaround times on pathology tests. 
Pathology funding 
22. 
At the time of the ACCC’s consideration, most pathology testing was funded by: 
▪ 
The Australian Government – pathology tests are funded via Medicare 
rebates on a fee-for-service basis, in some cases supplemented by out-of-
pocket expenses paid by patients. The rate at which a pathology test is 
covered by Medicare rebates is set by the Australian Government under 
the Medicare Benefits Schedule. 
▪ 
Health funds – a private health fund may cover some or all of any ‘gap’ 
payments (see further below) for private in-patients with private health 
insurance. For this purpose, many private health funds seek to enter into 
Medical Provider Purchase Agreements with pathology providers. 
▪ 
State governments – the pathology expenses of public in-patients at public 
hospitals are generally covered by a state-based funding system covering 
all services provided during a hospital stay. 
23. 
A pathology provider can choose whether to receive only the applicable 
Medicare Benefits Schedule rebates for services it provides (‘bulk bill’) or to 
impose an additional charge to patients, known as an ‘out of pocket’ expense or 
‘gap’ (‘privately bill’). The pathology provider’s decision is influenced by a range 
of factors, including whether the patient is a concession card holder, the 
preference of the doctor as expressed on the referral form, the billing policy of 
competing pathology providers and the complexity of the test. Pricing is 
implemented through the billing policy of each pathology provider. 
24. 
When a pathology provider chooses to bulk bill its patients, the pathology 
provider obtains payment directly from the Australian Government. The result is 
that the services are effectively free to the patient.  


 
Page 5 of 13 
25. 
In relation to private hospital in-patients, pathology providers receive 75% of the 
Medicare Benefits Schedule rate for pathology tests from Medicare, with the 
remaining 25% paid by the private health fund.   
26. 
Private health funds may enter into Medical Provider Purchase Agreements with 
pathology providers to minimise gap payments charged to the private health 
fund’s customers when admitted in a private hospital. Medical Provider 
Purchase Agreements typically provide for additional payments to the pathology 
provider above the Medicare Benefits Schedule rate, subject to negotiation 
between the pathology provider and the private health fund. 
27. 
If a patient does not have private health insurance, or their private health insurer 
does not have a Medical Provider Purchase Agreement with the pathology 
provider that provides the test to the patient, then the patient may be directly 
billed by the pathology provider for the cost of the pathology test.  
28. 
Some pathology tests are not covered by Medicare, for example pathology tests 
connected with elective cosmetic surgery and some genetic tests. In this 
instance, patients are directly billed for the full cost of a pathology test. In 
addition, tests conducted for private and government organisations, such as 
drug and alcohol testing, are not covered by Medicare. Pathology companies 
contract directly with these organisations to provide these tests.   
Referrals  
29. 
A patient must obtain a referral from a medical practitioner for a pathology test 
to be covered by the Medicare Benefits Schedule. Pathology providers supply 
branded referral forms to medical practitioners, which patients then take to an 
Approved Collection Centre.  
30. 
Since 11 December 2010, patients have been free to take these forms to any 
pathology provider, regardless of the branding on the form. The ACCC 
understands that the number of ‘foreign’ request forms received by pathology 
providers is low as patients generally opt for the pathology provider listed on the 
form.  
Other industry participants 
Commercial pathology providers 
31. 
Sonic Healthcare Limited (Sonic) (ASX:SHL) is a prominent commercial 
pathology provider. Sonic provides pathology and radiology services in all states 
and territories in Australia, and overseas. It also offers medical centre 
management services through subsidiary company Independent Practitioners 
Network, and healthcare software development services through subsidiary 
company Precedence Healthcare. 
32. 
4Cyte Pathology Pty Ltd (4Cyte) is a commercial pathology provider. At the time 
of the ACCC’s assessment, 4Cyte had Approved Collection Centres in 
Queensland, New South Wales and Victoria. 4Cyte commenced operations in 
2018. 4Cyte’s prominent role in securing state government contracts for 
conducting rapid antigen tests during the COVID-19 pandemic was a factor that 


 
Page 6 of 13 
contributed to 4Cyte’s significant growth across New South Wales, Victoria and 
Queensland.  
33. 
There are also other commercial pathology providers with limited geographic 
presence at the time of the ACCC’s assessment. These included:  
▪ 
Medihealth Pathology Pty Ltd, operating in New South Wales 
▪ 
Saturn Pathology Pty Ltd, operating in Western Australia  
▪ 
Austech Medical Laboratories (trading for KSPC Pty Ltd), operating in New 
South Wales.  
Not-for-profit pathology providers 
34. 
There are several not-for-profit pathology providers. Some are owned by hospital 
operators and may not offer their services to all market participants.  
35. 
Not-for-profit providers tend to operate in limited geographic areas, including 
metropolitan areas, typically around hospitals to which they are attached. Where 
a not-for-profit provider is affiliated with a particular hospital, these providers 
usually maintain Approved Collection Centre locations within a small geographic 
radius of the affiliated hospital. 
Public pathology providers 
36. 
All Australian states and territories other than Victoria have state-wide publicly 
funded pathology services that are required to service the clinical pathology 
testing needs of their respective public hospital systems, under state health 
regulations.  
37. 
These public pathology providers are required to provide the full range of 
pathology services 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, including complex tests. They 
also accept pathology samples from a variety of sources including out-patients 
and private in-patients. Some public pathology providers maintain Approved 
Collection Centres in the general community, usually in the area surrounding the 
public hospitals they service. 
38. 
In Victoria, there are public pathology providers that are associated with specific 
public hospital operators (Monash Health Pathology, Austin Pathology, Eastern 
Health, Alfred Pathology Services, Northern Pathology Victoria, and Melbourne 
Health). These providers operate at a smaller scale than the state-wide public 
pathology providers in other states. 
39. 
At the time of the ACCC’s assessment, Victoria had a high proportion of public 
pathology services that were outsourced to commercial pathology providers. 
Market feedback suggested this has occurred due to historical policy settings 
favouring deregulation of pathology services in public hospitals. 


 
Page 7 of 13 
Market definition and competition analysis 
40. 
The ACCC’s starting point for considering which markets will be affected by the 
proposed acquisition is to identify the areas of overlap between the products 
actually or potentially supplied by the merger parties. The ACCC then considers 
other actual or potential suppliers of those products, as well as what other 
products constitute sufficiently close substitutes to provide a significant source 
of constraint on the merged entity. The ACCC’s approach to market definition in 
this matter is outlined below. 
Out-patient pathology services 
Market definition 
41. 
In previous pathology related acquisitions, the ACCC considered the product 
dimension for community pathology services encompassed both out-patient and 
private in-patient pathology services.  
42. 
However, for the purposes of this review, the ACCC considered that the 
competitive effects of the proposed acquisition are more appropriately 
considered in separate markets for the supply of pathology services to out-
patients and private in-patients, due to distinct market features and service 
requirements. Some private hospitals require urgent tests conducted at on-site 
laboratories, while out-patient tests are generally less urgent and are primarily 
processed at central laboratories. 
43. 
The ACCC did not reach a concluded view on the geographic dimension of the 
relevant market/s, but considered that there may be local, state-based and/or 
regional dimensions. 
44. 
The ACCC’s review found that patients typically choose among local (or at times 
regional) pathology collection service providers. In making this choice between 
competing pathology providers, patients value factors such as bulk billing, hours 
of operation and convenience (such as proximity to their GP clinic).  
45. 
Medical practices, when choosing among competing offers for co-located 
Approved Collection Centres, tend to reflect these patient preferences by 
choosing providers offering favourable opening hours and staffing levels, and 
bulk billing policies. In addition, medical practices will also consider other 
factors such as turnaround times, breadth of testing capability, pathologist 
reputation, reporting standards and rental payments.  
46. 
While competition for collections takes place at the local level, whether a service 
provider is well-positioned or not to compete for local collection services 
depends in large part on whether they are at (or likely to achieve) competitive 
scale in courier services and laboratory testing. That is in turn informed by 
whether the service provider has a nearby, central laboratory that can service the 
area. Centralised laboratories typically service a region including multiple 
Approved Collection Centres.     
47. 
Pathology providers compete for out-patient pathology services by competing 
for Approved Collection Centre leases co-located with medical practices through 
rental offers, billing policies (including choosing to bulk bill) and other non-price 


 
Page 8 of 13 
service factors discussed above. Approved Collection Centres do not have to be 
co-located with a medical practice, but they typically are as this increases the 
likely referral volumes from patients of that practice. 
48. 
As such, while demand for collection services is typically local, to effectively 
compete to provide such collection services, the provider typically must have a 
testing laboratory within the region.   
Competition analysis 
49. 
At the time of the ACCC’s assessment, markets for out-patient pathology 
services were highly concentrated and dominated by the three large private 
providers: Sonic, Healius and ACL. Based on Approved Collection Centre 
numbers, a combined ACL-Healius would have been the largest provider of out-
patient pathology services in each state and territory in which they both 
operated, with more than 50% of Approved Collection Centres across Australia at 
the time of the ACCC’s assessment. 
50. 
The share of total Approved Collection Centres held by a pathology provider 
does not directly correlate to market share based on revenue. However, it is a 
useful proxy for it, and one which is readily available since it is based on public 
information.  
51. 
The ACCC’s review also indicated that ACL and Healius were close competitors 
in many regions on the basis of their non-price service offerings (such as the 
breadth of testing capability, opening hours and turnaround times) and their 
scale with respect Approved Collection Centres, central laboratories and courier 
networks.  
52. 
Information available to the ACCC also indicated that ACL and Healius regularly 
competed for the same Approved Collection Centre leases and they often 
adjusted their price and non-price offerings in response to one another. At the 
time of the ACCC’s assessment, ACL and Healius were also the largest (and in 
some cases, the only) pathology providers in some regions, such as regional 
Victoria. 
53. 
The ACCC found there are a limited number of comparable pathology providers 
in relevant regions operating at scale due to the substantial barriers to entry and 
expansion.  
54. 
At the time of the ACCC’s assessment, 4Cyte had grown its network of Approved 
Collection Centres across Queensland and some regions of New South Wales 
and Victoria. It was likely to be an important source of competition in these 
areas. However, 4Cyte did not operate across all relevant geographic areas and 
did not undertake as wide a range of tests in-house as ACL and Healius.  
55. 
As a result, the ACCC considered that competition from existing providers was 
unlikely to sufficiently constrain a combined ACL-Healius. Further, the significant 
barriers to expansion were likely to have limited 4Cyte’s and other pathology 
providers’ ability to replace the competition lost from the proposed acquisition in 
a timely and sufficient manner. 


 
Page 9 of 13 
56. 
The ACCC considered that the proposed acquisition would be likely to result in a 
substantial lessening of competition in the supply of out-patient pathology 
services. This may have resulted in higher prices (including more frequent 
and/or higher out of pocket expenses for patients) and/or lower service levels 
(including increased testing turnaround times, reduced opening hours and lower 
staffing levels).   
Pathology services to private hospital in-patients 
Market definition 
57. 
As identified above, the ACCC’s review indicated that there was likely to be a 
separate market for the supply of pathology services to private hospital in-
patients, distinct from the supply of pathology services to out-patients.  
58. 
The ACCC focused its assessment on private hospitals and clinics that require 
on-site laboratories. These private hospitals are typically larger and provide 
services that require urgent pathology testing, including emergency departments, 
intensive care units and/or oncology services. 
59. 
Private hospital operators often have more stringent service level requirements 
(including strict turnaround times for test results) than out-patient tests, which 
are generally less urgent. Further, a pathology provider’s experience, expertise 
and reputation are critical considerations for private hospital operators when 
conducting tenders. 
60. 
The ACCC did not reach a concluded view on the geographic dimension of the 
relevant market/s but considered that there may be national and/or state 
dimensions to competition. 
Competition analysis 
61. 
The ACCC found that the supply of pathology services to private hospital in-
patients is highly concentrated. Sonic (40%), Healius (26%) and ACL (17%) 
account for over 80% of pathology laboratories located in private hospitals 
nationally. A combined ACL-Healius would have had market shares of 48% in 
NSW, 52% in Victoria and 80% in WA. The share of total pathology laboratories in 
private hospitals does not directly correlate to market share based on revenue 
but is a proxy, based on public information.  
62. 
At the time of the ACCC’s review, ACL and Healius did not overlap in the supply 
of pathology services to private hospitals in South Australia, the Northern 
Territory, Tasmania or Queensland. It was not clear the extent to which ACL and 
Healius would compete for future tenders in these states, particularly in 
Queensland. 
63. 
The ACCC found alternative pathology providers were unlikely to be 
competitively effective constraints on a combined ACL-Healius and Sonic as: 
▪ 
Public pathology providers rarely tender for private hospital contracts 
unless the private hospital is co-located with a public hospital, due to their 
focus on serving the public hospital system. 


 
Page 10 of 13 
▪ 
Reputation, clinician support and a proven track record of servicing private 
hospital contracts are critical considerations for private hospital operators 
when inviting pathology providers to tender and awarding contracts. As 
such, alternative private pathology providers that have not historically 
serviced private hospitals face significant hurdles to viably compete for 
these contracts. 
▪ 
While collection buckets are often present in private hospitals, these are 
typically used for non-routine tests and are not a substitute for the types of 
services provided at onsite laboratories.  
64. 
Private hospital operators are not party to Medical Provider Purchase 
Agreements between pathology providers and private health insurers. Despite 
this, information available to the ACCC indicated private hospital operators take 
these agreements into account when selecting a pathology provider.  
65. 
Similarly, the number of private hospitals a pathology provider services is an 
important consideration for private health funds to ensure coverage and 
minimise out of pocket expenses for its members. As such, competitors entering 
or expanding may be at a competitive disadvantage relative to incumbent 
providers such as ACL and Healius which have Medical Provider Purchase 
Agreements in place.   
66. 
In these circumstances, the ACCC was concerned that the proposed acquisition 
result in a substantial lessening of competition leading to increased prices, 
either in the form of increased costs to private health insurers under Medical 
Provider Purchase Agreements, increased out of pocket costs to patients, and/or 
reduced service levels to private hospital operators. 
Commercial pathology services 
Market definition 
67. 
Individual commercial pathology opportunities are dependent on the needs of 
the customer and include services such as drug and alcohol screening, 
government health screening programs, insurance related testing, immunity 
screening, pre-employment screening, clinical trials, personal health screening 
and genetic testing. 
68. 
Many commercial customers require pathology service providers with an 
extensive footprint of Approved Collection Centres. While some customers 
require or prefer to engage a pathology provider with a national presence, these 
are in the minority. Many commercial customers require at least state-wide 
services, often requiring a wide network of Approved Collection Centres, 
including in regional areas.  
69. 
The ACCC did not form a concluded view on market definition, but assessed the 
likely effect of the proposed acquisition in state markets for the supply of non-
Medicare funded pathology testing to commercial customers (excluding private 
and public hospitals). 


 
Page 11 of 13 
Competition analysis 
70. 
At the time of the ACCC’s assessment, markets for commercial pathology 
services were already highly concentrated, with the number of potential suppliers 
dependent on the specific needs of the customer. ACL and Healius were close 
competitors for many commercial pathology contracts, both in terms of price 
and service.  
71. 
The ACCC concluded that ACL, Healius and Sonic were the major competitors. 
However, in some geographic regions (such as Victoria), Sonic lacked a regional 
presence to service some customers, and Sonic did not appear to compete for 
all opportunities.  
72. 
The ACCC noted that some other suppliers compete for some opportunities 
where customers have more limited requirements. However, aside from ACL, 
Healius and Sonic, few alternative providers were able to compete for many 
commercial pathology contracts. Therefore, alternative providers were unlikely 
to effectively constrain a combined ACL-Healius from increasing prices and/or 
decreasing service levels. 
Pathology services to public hospitals in Victoria 
Market definition 
73. 
Similar to private hospital in-patients, pathology services provided to public 
hospitals requires a high capacity and breadth of testing, as well as prompt 
turnaround times.  
74. 
However, the ACCC considered that pathology services provided to public in-
patients varies from private in-patients as: 
▪ 
pathology services provided to public in-patients are covered by state-
based funding systems (and are not covered by Medicare) 
▪ 
state-owned public pathology providers are more likely to provide these 
services. 
75. 
As identified above, Victoria was the only state that outsourced some of its public 
in-patient pathology services. As such, the ACCC confined its assessment to 
considering the likely effect of the proposed acquisition in Victoria.  
Competition analysis 
76. 
The ACCC found that ACL and Healius were the two most active commercial 
pathology providers competing in the supply of pathology to public hospitals in 
Victoria. The proposed acquisition would have combined the only active private 
competitors for these services in some regional areas of Victoria where Sonic 
and 4Cyte did not operate. 
77. 
At the time of the ACCC’s consideration, the Victorian Government had in-
sourced some public in-patient pathology services. The threat of further in-
sourcing may have limited ACL’s ability to increase prices and/or decrease 
service levels post-acquisition.  


 
Page 12 of 13 
78. 
The ACCC did not reach a concluded view as to whether the proposed 
acquisition was likely to substantially lessen competition in this market. 
Veterinary pathology services in Victoria and South Australia 
Market definition 
79. 
Veterinary pathology services are provided to veterinarians who treat companion 
and/or production animals. The ACCC considered that veterinary pathology 
services are distinct from human pathology services as there are specialist 
veterinary pathologies and no government funding arrangements. 
80. 
While Healius provided veterinary pathology services in all states and territories 
of Australia, ACL only provided veterinary pathology services in Victoria and 
South Australia. The ACCC therefore considered the likely effect of the proposed 
acquisition in separate markets for veterinary pathology services in Victoria and 
South Australia. 
Competition analysis 
81. 
The ACCC found the markets for veterinary pathology services in Victoria and 
South Australia were already concentrated. The ACCC considered whether the 
proposed acquisition would combine two important competitors in Victoria and 
South Australia. 
82. 
The ACCC identified a number of smaller private veterinary pathology providers, 
as well as government funded and university funded laboratories that may have 
imposed competitive constraint on the merged firm.  
83. 
The ACCC did not reach a concluded view as to whether the proposed 
acquisition was likely to substantially lessen competition in these markets. 
Proposed undertaking 
84. 
On 14 September 2023, ACL offered to provide the ACCC with a court-
enforceable undertaking pursuant to s87B of the Act (Proposed Undertaking) 
which sought to address some of the ACCC’s preliminary concerns set out in the 
Statement of Issues. ACL proposed to divest: 
▪ 
60 Approved Collection Centres in Perth 
▪ 
25 Approved Collection Centres across various parts of regional Victoria 
▪ 
the entirety of its existing Approved Collection Centre network (14 
Approved Collection Centres) in the Northern Territory and its Darwin 
Private Hospital laboratory. 
85. 
The ACCC conducted market consultation on the Proposed Undertaking.  
86. 
The ACCC found that: 
▪ 
The proposed divestiture package was insufficient to establish an 
independent, standalone, long-term competitor that would be able to 
compete across a wide range of tests and broader geographic areas. 


 
Page 13 of 13 
▪ 
The success of the proposed divestments would be contingent upon the 
purchaser/s having (or the ability and incentive to rapidly acquire and 
develop) an existing network of Approved Collection Centres, adequate 
supporting infrastructure, a wide breadth of pathologists across 
disciplines, established recognition and trust, and stable relationships with 
referring GPs and specialists. 
▪ 
The Approved Collection Centres proposed to be divested were unlikely to 
be sufficient in number, scale and density. 
▪ 
The proposed divestment was at significant risk of being frustrated or 
undermined by the actions of third parties, including landlords, referring 
practitioners and patients. 
▪ 
The trust of medical practitioners for referrals is of utmost importance and 
was not transferrable with the proposed divestment. 
87. 
As a result, the ACCC considered that the proposed divestment set out in the 
Undertaking was not capable of addressing the ACCC’s competition concerns. 
Conclusion 
88. 
Based on the above analysis, the ACCC concluded that the proposed acquisition 
of Healius by ACL was likely to substantially lessen competition in the markets 
for the supply of pathology services to out-patients, private in-patients, and 
commercial and government customers.  
