Australian
Competition &
Consumer
Commission
31 January 2007
Statement of Issues — Transurban Group's proposed
acquisition of Sydney Roads Group
1.
Outlined below is the Statement of Issues released by the Australian
Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) in relation to the proposed
acquisition of Sydney Roads Group (SRG) by Transurban Group (Transurban)
(the proposed acquisition).
2.
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC's preliminary views, drawing
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well
as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake.
3.
In line with the ACCC's Merger Review Process Guidelines (available on the
ACCC's website at www.accc.gov.au), the ACCC has established and will
maintain an indicative timeline for its assessment of the proposed acquisition.
The indicative timeline can change in line with the Merger Review Process
Guidelines. To keep abreast of possible changes in relation to timing and to find
any relevant documents, market participants should visit the Mergers Register
on the ACCC's website at www.acce.gov.au/mergersregister.
4.
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties
(including customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to
ascertain and consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also
intended to provide the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis
for making further submissions should they consider it necessary.
Background
5.
The proposed acquisition was publicly announced by Transurban on
14 December 2006. In December 2006, Transurban provided its submission
seeking the ACCC's view on an informal basis.
The parties
Transurban
6.
Transurban is an international tollroad developer and investor with assets in
Australia and an asset in the U.S. (Pocahontas Parkway). The company focuses
1


on the long-term ownership and management of tollroads and in particular,
electronic tollroads.
7.
Transurban has ownership interests in three of Australia's tollroads; Citylink
Melbourne (Citylink) (100%), Westlink M7 (M7) (47.5%) in Sydney and the
M2 Motorway (M2) (100% ownership after an acquisition from the Hills Road
Group in 2005) in Sydney.
8.
Transurban, or its related entities, are the electronic tolling services provider
(tag issuer) to the tollroad owners of Citylink, the M7 and the M2 employing
the following brands: Roam (M7), Roam Express (M2) and Citylink (Citylink).
In addition, Transurban has entered into a long term contract to supply tolling
product services (excluding 'back office' facilities) to the owner and operator of
the Lane Cove Tunnel.
SRG
9.
SRG was established through the demerger of Macquarie Infrastructure Group
and was listed on the Australian Stock Exchange in July 2006. SRG is a
holding entity with ownership interests in three established Sydney tollroads
namely the Ml Eastern Distributor (Ml) (71.35%), M5 Motorway (M5) (50%)
and M4 Motorway (M4) (50.61%).1
10.
The entity that operates the M5, Interlink Roads Pty Ltd (Interlink), currently
provides electronic tolling services to the three tollroads in which SRG holds
an interest (namely the Ml, M4 and M5). As a result, SRG has a 50% interest
in the Interlink tag issuing business.
The Transaction
Commercial rationale
11.
Transurban has stated that the proposed acquisition will allow it to add value to
SRG by utilising Transurban's tollroad management expertise to improve
customer service, increase traffic volumes and lower operating costs.
Transurban submits that it will work with SRG's partners in tollroad
concessions to investigate consolidated tolling operations amongst other
things. 2 However, the time frame and details as to how these measures may be
implemented is not clear.
I According to information obtained by Transurban from ASIC registries and SRG's public prospectus,
the minority shareholders in each of the tollroads that SRG holds an interest in are:
n
MI: National Nominees Ltd (10%), J.P. Morgan Nominees Ltd (7.5%), National Asset
Management Ltd (6.15%) and Motor Trades Association of Australia Ltd (5%).
n
M4: Utilities of Australia Ltd (10.27%), National Nominees Ltd (9.81%), Karatal Holdings
Pty Ltd (9.51%), J.P. Morgan Nominees Ltd (8.6%), Australia Infrastructure Fund Limited
(6.25%) and Hastings Fund Management Ltd (4.95%).
n
M5: J.P. Morgan Nominees Ltd (19.8%), Utilities of Australia Pty Ltd (19.2%), Cogent
Nominees Pty Ltd (8.2%) and National Nominees Ltd (2.8%).
2 SRG and Transurban Joint ASX Release dated 14 December 2006.
2


Industry background
Tollroad construction and ownership
12.
When the Federal or State government decides to build a new road under a
Public Private Partnership3 (PPP) model, an open tender process is run. The
successful bidder enters into a formal agreement (Project Deed) with the
government to build, own, operate and, usually, transfer the ownership of the
road back to the government at the end of a defined period. 4 All operating costs
are met by the tollroad owner over this period.
13.
In the case of a PPP tollroad, the tollroad will need to provide a financial return
to repay costs incurred through the project. This typically comes from an
entitlement in the concession granted by the government for the private owner
to charge motorists a toll for use of the tollroad. The owner of the road is
responsible for collecting the tolls and operating and maintaining the tollroad as
well as for the electronic tolling systems which are used to track use of the road
by motorists.
14.
Bidding for tenders is typically done by way of consortia that cover all aspects
of the project including construction, financial advice, debt provision, road
maintenance/operations, tolling operations and tag issuing. Transurban submits
that a tendering consortium will bid a price that enables it to offer the lowest toll
which will need to be charged in order to repay money borrowed and provide a
suitable return on equity contributed. In some circumstances the government
may establish the toll price and ask tendering consortia to bid against it.
Toll pricing and electronic tolling
15.
All NSW tollroad owners are subject to regulation in relation to the toll prices
motorists pay to use the tollroads. The Project Deed that each road owner has
with the Roads and Traffic Authority (RTA) or the NSW Government sets the
level of tolls. Transurban submits that these agreements limit the ability of
tollroad owners to increase tolls or offer differential pricing except with the
consent of the RTA and/or Government.
16.
Traditionally, tolls in NSW have been collected in cash at toll booths. However,
the last five years has seen the introduction of non-cash collection of tolls using
electronic tags and more recently electronic passes. In NSW, with the exception
3 According to Transurban, in making decisions regarding construction of a new road the relevant
government can choose that the road:
n
be publicly owned and funded (eg. Pacific Highway and M5 East);
n
be publicly owned with a toll (eg. Sydney Harbour Bridge); or
n
involve private ownership, construction and operation (at least for a time) under some kind of
Public Private Partnership (eg. Cross City Tunnel and Lane Cove Tunnel).
Transurban suggests that the following new roads may be built in the future:
n
F3/M2
n
M4 East
n
Brisbane Airport Link
4 Such projects are generally referred to as BOOT Schemes.
3


of the Lane Cove Tunnel, all tollroad operators also supply (through related
companies) electronic tags to tollroad users.
17.
Transurban submits that in NSW the RTA 5 and Interlink6 each have an
approximately 40% share of the total electronic tags issued to motorists,
Transurban7 has an approximate 20% share and the Cross City Tunnel has a
very small share.8
18.
While the tollroad operators are not permitted to charge any more than the
mandated toll when collecting by cash or by tag, in the case of electronic toll
collection:
n a tag issuer may charge administration fees to the users of its tags (subject
to RTA approval); and
n in the case of non-tag electronic toll collection, tollroad owners are
permitted to charge an administration fee on top of the toll to recover the
costs of collecting the toll. These non-tag electronic tolling products are
known as 'passes'.
Interoperability, Roaming Agreements and Roaming Fees
19.
The RTA is responsible for, amongst other things, managing the NSW road
network. The RTA has established technical standards for tollroads to ensure
that road users can use the electronic tag of their choice on any Australian
tollroad. This means that all tollroads and tag products are `interoperable', such
that a road owner is unable to force road users to use a particular tag on their
road. There are currently tollroads operating in Victoria, NSW and Queensland,
all of which comply with the requirements of interoperability.
20.
Interoperability is governed by a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU)
between all tollroad owners nationally, including the RTA, under which tollroad
owners are required to enter into 'roaming agreements'. Roaming agreements
are bilateral agreements between each tollroad owner and each tag issuer which
provide for the interoperability of tags on all tollroads.
21.
Pursuant to the MOU, tollroad owners and tag issuers negotiate 'roaming fees'
that are the subject of roaming agreements. Every time a motorist uses a tag to
pay the toll on a tollroad the motorist's tag issuer collects the toll and pays this
to the tollroad owner, less the negotiated 'roaming fee'.
22.
Where the tollroad owner and the tag issuer are part of the same group of
companies, then the roaming fee for toll collection is simply an internal transfer
cost. However, where the tollroad owner and the tag issuer are from separate
unrelated companies then the roaming fee is charged to the tollroad owner by
the tag issuer.
5 The RTA is the tag issuer for the Sydney Harbour Bridge and Sydney Harbour Tunnel (E-toll).
6 As set out above, Interlink is the tag issuer for the Ml, M4 and M5 (E-way).
7 As set out above, Transurban is the tag issuer for the M2 and M7 (Roam, Roam Express).
8 The Cross City Tunnel is the tag issuer for the Cross City Tunnel (Beep).
4


23.
There is no regulation of the amount of the roaming fees for tollroads in NSW,
Victoria or Queensland. 10 The roaming fee which is charged cannot be passed
onto the motorist and is therefore a cost to the tollroad owner.
Market inquiries
24.
On 14 December 2006 the ACCC commenced market inquiries regarding the
proposed acquisition with a range of interested parties including other tag
issuers, providers of tolling services, tollroad owners, construction companies,
financial advisers, debt-providers, road maintenance and operations providers
and industry associations.
Statement of issues
25.
For the purpose of this Statement of Issues, the issues in this matter are divided
into three categories: 'issues of concern', 'issues that may raise concerns' and
`issues unlikely to pose concerns'. The ACCC is seeking comments from
market participants including the RTA in relation to all issues.
Issues of concern
Likely effect on competition for tollroad construction and ownership
26.
The requirement of interoperability compels tollroad owners to negotiate
bilateral agreements with each tag issuer so tollroads do not reject otherwise
valid electronic tags. To date these negotiations amongst industry participants in
NSW have been reasonably balanced by the fact that almost all tollroad owners
had tag issuing businesses and tags were spread relatively evenly between
providers.
27.
However, a new tollroad owner (that does not have an established tag base) may
be at a disadvantage due to the existing high level of electronic tag penetration
among motorists in the Sydney metropolitan area. It is unlikely that a new
tollroad owner would be able to issue tags to the large number of motorists that
already have an electronic tag. Consequently, it is likely that a new tollroad
owner would need to pay roaming fees to other tag issuers in order to collect toll
revenue. The extent to which a new tollroad owner would have to rely on
roaming fee arrangements would depend upon the location to the new tollroad
and the extent of existing tag penetration in that area.
28.
To the extent that a major tag issuer has the ability to increase roaming fees
disproportionately to costs, this could impact upon competition with respect to
tollroad construction and ownership. Roaming fees are likely to represent a
I ° However, the Mitcham-Frankston Freeway Concession Deed between the Victorian Government
this tollroad owner provides that roaming fees reflect the net incremental marginal cost of providing the
roaming service (section 33.9). However, Transurban is not presently bound by this as the Melbourne
CityLink Project Deed was effected prior to this contractual regulation.
5


small but material cost to a consortium bidding for a tollroad project. The
inclusion of a major tag issuer in a bidding consortium could affect the
competitive bidding process for new tollroads in at least two ways.
29.
Firstly, a bidding consortium which did not include the major tag issuer would
have to build a premium into any future bids for tollroads to cover the cost of
high roaming fees. This could increase their bid above competitive levels whilst
a major tag issuer could align itself with a particular consortium and provide it
with reduced exposure to the cost of roaming arrangements.
30.
Secondly, the inclusion of a major tag issuer in a bidding consortium could
create such uncertainty as to overall costs that potential competing bidding
consortia, which did not include the major tag issuer, could be significantly
deterred or foreclosed from participating in the tender process for new tollroads.
31.
Higher roaming fees would have effects on the development of future tollroads
by raising costs to government (when awarding new tenders) and possibly road
users (through higher tolls on future tollroads).
32.
Transurban submits that operational costs such as roaming fees are not a
significant factor in determining toll prices or bids by consortia for new tollroad
projects. It submits that the major considerations in determining toll prices are
traffic forecasts, construction costs, length of concession and cost of capital.
33.
More generally, Transurban submits that given that SRG only has a 50%
interest in Interlink and due to the control structure of Interlink (under which a
Board resolution would require the consent of 85% of shareholders), the
proposed acquisition would not give Transurban effective control of the Board
of Interlink and in turn the tag accounts issued by Interlink.
Invitation for further information —tollroad construction and ownership
34.
The ACCC invites information and views from the RTA and other interested
parties on:
n
whether and how the merged entity's 50% share in Interlink would enable
the merged entity to exercise control over tag issuing by Interlink and
potentially increase roaming fees above competitive levels;
n
whether and how any ability of the merged entity and Interlink to
significantly control roaming fees could create such uncertainty as to
overall costs that potential competing bidding consortia, which did not
include the major tag issuer, would be significantly foreclosed from
participating in the tender process for new tollroads;
n
whether and how any ability of the merged entity and Interlink to
significantly control roaming fees could cause a bidding consortium,
which did not include the major tag issuer, to build a premium into any
bids for new tollroad projects to cover the cost of high roaming fees, and
thereby increase their bid above competitive levels; and
6


n
whether Transurban might be a party to multiple consortia bidding for a
particular new tollroad project and, if so, whether and how this would
maintain credible independent competition in new tollroad bidding
processes.
Issues that may pose concerns
Likely effect on competition for supply of electronic toll services to motorists
Possible effect of higher roaming_fees on competition between tag issuers
35.
Market inquiries also indicated concerns that the merged entity and Interlink
may use its position to increase roaming fees to tollroad owners both in NSW
and interstate.
36.
An advantage in winning new tollroad projects could result in an increase in
Transurban's tag base through the issuing of additional tags to motorists seeking
to use the new tollroad. This could further boost Transurban's position as a tag
issuer and potentially provide a further ability in increasing roaming fees. Over
time, this increase to the cost base of other tollroad owners and decreasing tag
penetration relative to Transurban may weaken the tag issuing businesses of
Transurban's competitors, potentially limiting their ability to compete in terms
of prices and marketing in the issuing of tags to motorists or causing a move
away from providing in-house tag issuing services.
37.
Transurban's submissions in this regard include that roaming fees are governed
by bilateral roaming agreements and it could not change the fee unilaterally
under the terms of these existing agreements.
Invitation for further information
38.
The ACCC is seeking views and information from the RTA and other interested
parties on:
n the extent to which there is contestability in relation to the services that are
the subject of bilateral roaming agreements given that interoperability must
be achieved through bilateral roaming agreements between specific tag
issuers and tollroad owners;
n the extent to which, under the terms of existing bilateral roaming
agreements, existing roaming fees would prevail in the event of a fee dispute
and whether this would act as a constraint on pricing of roaming fees by the
merged entity;
n whether the RTA provides a benchmark for roaming fees and how this is
achieved;
n whether the RTA's regulatory role would act as an indirect competitive
constraint on the merged entity's ability to increase roaming fees above
competitive levels and how this would be achieved, for example, due to:
7


n the RTA's involvement in authorising decisions relating to all NSW
tollroads (including for example road widening, signage and marketing
material); and
n the RTA's involvement in awarding new tollroad concessions.
n the extent that the merged entity could increase roaming fees and the likely
effect on tag issuing services to motorists as a result of the increased costs
incurred by the tollroad owner (for example, a move away from providing
in-house tag issuing services or limiting their ability to compete in terms of
prices and marketing in the issuing of tags to motorists); and
n whether there is the potential for new entry to the provision of electronic tag
services to motorists by entities that do not have tollroad operation.
Possible effect on administration fees to motorists
39.
Given the merged entity and Interlink's shares of electronic tags post
acquisition, the ACCC may be concerned if the merged entity and Interlink had
the ability and incentive to exercise market power by either raising
administration fees charged to its tag holders above competitive levels or by
lowering the level of services provided to motorists.
40.
Transurban submits that:
n the RTA requires a `fee-free' tag account to be provided, being a prepaid
account with automatic top-up linked to a bank account and having no
administration fees;
n only additional services requested by a tag account holder may be charged for
and that the charges must be cost recovery only in nature and be determined in
consultation with the RTA; and
n the merged entity and Interlink will continue to face strong competition from
the RTA and other tag issuers so that any unreasonable fee increase would
result in motorists switching to a competitor.
Invitation for further information
41. The ACCC is seeking views and information from the RTA and other interested
parties on:
n the extent to which the RTA imposes a compulsory requirement for tag
issuers to provide motorists with a fee-free account and whether this
regulation would constrain the merged entity from increasing administration
and account fees to motorists;
n the extent to which charges for additional services to motorists are regulated
by the RTA and could not be increased by the merged entity; and
n the ability and incentive for motorists to switch to alternative tag issuers
including the RTA, and whether this would provide an effective competitive
constraint on administration and account fees charged to motorists by the
merged entity.
8


Issues unlikely to pose concerns
Likely effect on competition for tolling services to tollroads
42.
The ACCC has considered whether the proposed acquisition could impact upon
the provision of tolling services to tollroads (comprising physical and electronic
toll collection and customer service and complaint handling functions).
Transurban and SRG currently provide these functions for the tollroads that they
have interests in and Transurban has agreed to provide these functions on a third
party basis to the Lane Cove Tunnel.
43.
It appears that while there are third party providers with respect to these
functions, the functions are primarily provided by tollroad owners on an in-
house basis. Further, it does not appear the proposed acquisition would reduce
competition or increase barriers to entry in the provision of tollroad services to
tollroads.
44.
As a result, it appears unlikely that the proposed acquisition would adversely
impact on competition for tolling services to tollroads.
ACCC's future steps
45.
The ACCC will finalise and publicly announce its view on this matter after it
considers market responses invited by this Statement of Issues.
46.
The ACCC now seeks submissions from the RTA and industry participants on
each of the issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue
that may be relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter.
47.
Submissions are to be received by the ACCC no later than
Monday 12 February 2007. The ACCC will consider the submissions received
from the market and the merger parties in light of the issues that are identified
above and will, in conjunction with information and submissions already
provided by the merger parties, come to a final view as to the appropriate course
of action to take to resolve any competition concerns that remain.
48.
A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose of explaining the ACCC's
final view on the proposed acquisition may be published following the ACCC's
public announcement of its view.
9
