Page 1 of 9 
 
Statement of Issues 
19 December 2013 
Woolworths Limited – proposed acquisition of Lindisfarne 
Cellars 
Introduction 
1. 
Outlined below is the Statement of Issues released by the Australian 
Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) on the proposed acquisition by 
Woolworths Limited (Woolworths) of Lindisfarne Cellars (proposed 
acquisition). 
2. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well 
as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
3. 
In line with the ACCC’s Merger Review Process Guidelines (available on the 
ACCC’s website at www.accc.gov.au/processguidelines) the ACCC has 
established a secondary timeline for further consideration of the issues. The 
ACCC anticipates completing further market inquiries by 17 January 2014 and 
anticipates making a final decision on 13 February 2014. However, the 
anticipated timeline can change in line with the Merger Review Process 
Guidelines. To keep abreast of possible changes in relation to timing and to find 
relevant documents, market participants should visit the Mergers Register on the 
ACCC's website at www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
4. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 
Background 
5. 
The ACCC commenced its review of the proposed acquisition on 10 October 
2013. 
The parties 
The Acquirer: Woolworths Limited 
6. 
Woolworths Limited (Woolworths) is an Australian and New Zealand retailer. Its 
operations include supermarkets, petrol, liquor, general merchandise stores, 
hardware and home improvement. 


 
 
Page 2 of 9 
7. 
Woolworths operates a number of Beer Wine Spirits (BWS) bottleshops in 
Tasmania. 
The Target: Lindisfarne Cellars 
8. 
Lindisfarne Cellars is a bottleshop located within a neighbourhood shopping strip 
at 189A Derwent Avenue, Lindisfarne. It trades under the Duncan’s Liquor 
banner. 
The transaction 
9. 
Woolworths proposes to acquire the bottleshop business of Lindisfarne Cellars, 
including the liquor off-licence. After the proposed acquisition, Lindisfarne Cellars 
would cease to trade under the Duncan's Liquor banner and would be converted 
by Woolworths to a BWS bottleshop. 
Market inquiries 
10. 
The ACCC commenced market inquiries regarding the proposed acquisition on 
10 October 2013. The closing date for submissions was 28 October 2013. The 
ACCC has received information from a range of interested parties and is now 
calling for further information to assist with its investigation. 
Industry background 
Retail sale of packaged liquor in Tasmania 
11. 
The retail sale of takeaway packaged liquor in Tasmania is undertaken by a 
number of different liquor retailers, including bottleshops owned and operated by 
Woolworths under the BWS brand and independent bottleshops. 
12. 
Independent bottleshops may be affiliated with a particular banner or banner 
group such as Big Bargain Bottleshop, Thirsty Camel, Duncan’s Liquor or 9/11. 
Banner groups typically provide their affiliated bottleshops with a number of 
services, including: 
a. 
a marketing brand and signage; 
b. 
access to advertising and promotional activity of the banner group; and 
c. 
the ability to purchase stock at a wholesale level through the banner group. 
Liquor licensing in Tasmania 
13. 
Liquor licensing is regulated in Tasmania at the state level. There are five types 
of liquor licence in Tasmania: 
a. 
off-licence; 
b. 
general licence; 
c. 
club licence; 
d. 
on-licence; and 
e. 
special licence. 
14. 
Relevant to the proposed acquisition, an off-licence authorises the sale of liquor 
for consumption off the licensed premises. This licence is usually issued to 
bottleshops. The proposed acquisition of Lindisfarne Cellars involves the 
acquisition of an off-licence. 


 
 
Page 3 of 9 
15. 
Under a general licence, liquor may be sold over the counter at hotels, taverns 
and clubs for consumption on and off the premises. Clubs with a club licence 
may sell takeaway packaged liquor to a member of the club or guest. 
16. 
An on-licence is confined to the sale of liquor for consumption on the premises, 
such as at nightclubs, bars and restaurants. 
17. 
A special licence is subject to particular conditions specified in the licence, such 
as the sale of liquor to attendees at a particular event during a given timeframe. 
Future with and without the proposed acquisition 
18. 
Section 50 of the Act prohibits mergers or acquisitions that would have the effect 
or be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
In assessing a proposed acquisition pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC 
considers the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future competitive 
environment if the acquisition proceeds (the “with” position) to the likely future 
competitive environment if the acquisition does not proceed (the “without” 
position) to determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to substantially 
lessen competition in any relevant market. 
19. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that without the proposed acquisition, 
Lindisfarne Cellars would continue to operate as an independent bottleshop not 
owned by Woolworths, either under the current ownership or under the 
ownership of another independent operator. Therefore, it is likely that the 
bottleshop would continue to operate as an independent competitor in the local 
market, absent the proposed acquisition. 
The ACCC invites interested parties to comment on what would be likely to occur in 
the event that the proposed acquisition does not proceed. In particular, the ACCC is 
interested in whether the bottleshop would continue to operate under current 
ownership or whether it would be attractive to another buyer who would use it to 
compete with BWS and other local market participants. 
Competition analysis 
20. 
The ACCC is considering the extent of competition and whether the proposed 
acquisition would be likely to result in a substantial lessening of competition by 
replacing the competition provided by Lindisfarne Cellars with an offer from 
Woolworths that is already available locally. 
Area of overlap 
21. 
The key area of competitive overlap between the parties to the proposed 
acquisition is the retail supply of packaged liquor for off-premises consumption. 
Woolworths operates a bottleshop (BWS Eastlands) in the nearby suburb of 
Rosny, which is around 4km by road (or 2.5km in a straight line) from Lindisfarne 
Cellars. This is the closest BWS to Lindisfarne Cellars. There are other BWS 
bottleshops in the Hobart area and more widely across Tasmania. 
Market definition 
Local retail liquor market 
22. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the geographic dimension of the market for 
the retail sale of packaged liquor for off-premises consumption includes the local 
area within 3-5km of Lindisfarne Cellars east of the Derwent River, but does not 
extend west of the river. This market includes the area: 


 
 
Page 4 of 9 
a. 
north of the Tasman Highway on the eastern side of the Derwent River, 
which includes the suburbs of Rose Bay, Lindisfarne, Geilston Bay and 
Risdon Vale; and 
b. 
south of the Tasman Highway on the eastern side of the Derwent River, 
which includes the suburbs of Montagu Bay, Warrane, Mornington, Rosny 
and Bellerive. 
23. 
The location of Lindisfarne Cellars and other bottleshops to the east of the 
Derwent River are shown in Map 1. 
Map 1: Map of local area 
 
24. 
Market definition is purposive and depends on the specific facts and evidence of 
the merger under investigation. In identifying the geographic dimension of the 
relevant market, the ACCC seeks to identify the geographic location of suppliers 
that would be sufficiently close substitutes for the products supplied by the 
merged firm so as to defeat a hypothetical exercise of market power. 
25. 
In forming its preliminary view on the geographic market, information available to 
the ACCC shows that Lindisfarne Cellars draws most of its sales from customers 
residing in Lindisfarne and nearby suburbs east of the Derwent River. The 


 
 
Page 5 of 9 
ACCC’s preliminary view is that the Derwent River is a natural barrier that 
delineates the geographic field of rivalry. 
26. 
The ACCC recognises that substitution possibilities between different locations 
vary by degrees. Some bottleshops located across the Tasman Bridge on the 
western side of the Derwent River are likely to be substitutes for Lindisfarne 
Cellars for some customers to some degree. However, this does not necessarily 
mean that Lindisfarne residents would consider alternative bottleshops in those 
locations to be close substitutes for Lindisfarne. 
27. 
While some local residents commute to and from the Hobart CBD or surrounding 
areas west of the Derwent River for employment or other purposes, market 
feedback suggests the extent of customers potentially switching their demand to 
bottleshops west of the river in response to a hypothetical exercise of market 
power would be limited and insufficient to consider them in the same geographic 
market as Lindisfarne. 
28. 
More generally, information available to the ACCC indicates that Lindisfarne 
residents value the convenience of being able to shop for liquor close to where 
they live. This suggests that bottleshops located close to Lindisfarne Cellars are 
likely to be closer substitutes than those located further away. This is despite the 
fact that some residents may choose to travel outside their local area for a 
number of different purposes. 
29. 
These factors are consistent with market inquiries that indicate the closest field 
of rivalry is between bottleshops within 3-5 kilometres of Lindisfarne Cellars on 
the eastern side of the river, but not including bottleshops within 3-5 kilometres 
of Lindisfarne that are on the western side of the river. 
State-wide retail liquor market 
30. 
Consistent with previous matters, the ACCC is also considering the competition 
effects of the proposed acquisition in the market for the retail supply of packaged 
liquor for off-premises consumption in Tasmania. 
Wholesale liquor market 
31. 
The ACCC is also considering whether the proposed acquisition raises any 
competition concerns in the market for wholesale procurement and supply of 
packaged liquor in Tasmania. 
Conclusion on market definition 
32. 
On the basis of its market inquiries to date, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that 
the following markets are relevant to the proposed acquisition:  
a. 
the retail supply of packaged liquor for off-premises consumption within 3-
5km of Lindisfarne Cellars on the eastern side of the Derwent River (the 
local market); 
b. 
the retail supply of packaged liquor for off-premises consumption in 
Tasmania (the state-wide retail market); and 
c. 
the market for the wholesale procurement and supply of packaged liquor in 
Tasmania (the wholesale market). 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the ACCC’s proposed 
definition of the relevant markets. In particular, interested parties are invited to 
comment on: 


 
 
Page 6 of 9 
(i) 
to what extent are locations to the south of the Tasman highway close 
substitutes for Lindisfarne? 
(ii) 
to what extent are locations across the Tasman bridge close substitutes for 
Lindisfarne?  
(iii) 
what are the reasons for your views? 
Statement of Issues 
33. 
For the purposes of this Statement of Issues, the issues in this matter are 
divided into two categories, 'issues of concern' and 'issues unlikely to pose 
concern'. 
Issues of concern – local market 
34. 
The ACCC is considering the extent of competition and whether the proposed 
acquisition would be likely to result in a substantial lessening of competition by 
replacing the competition provided by Lindisfarne Cellars with an offer from 
Woolworths that is already available locally. 
35. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is likely to result in 
a substantial lessening of competition in the local market for the retail supply of 
packaged liquor. The ACCC is particularly concerned that the proposed 
acquisition would result in: 
a. 
an increase in market concentration through the horizontal aggregation of 
market shares; 
b. 
the removal of Lindisfarne Cellars as one of the closest competitors to BWS 
Eastlands; and 
c. 
a loss of competitive tension and loss of choice available to consumers. 
Market concentration 
36. 
Market concentration is a relevant but not determinative part of the ACCC’s 
competition assessment in this matter. The ACCC’s inquiries indicate that 
Woolworths is the largest supplier of takeaway packaged liquor in the local 
market by revenue, followed by Lindisfarne Cellars as the second largest 
supplier. 
37. 
Some market participants have indicated that Woolworths’ share of the market 
by revenue is approximately 45 per cent and would increase to approximately 60 
per cent if the proposed acquisition were to proceed, with Woolworths controlling 
the two largest bottleshops (BWS Eastlands and Lindisfarne Cellars) in the local 
market. 
Removal of Lindisfarne Cellars as one of the closest competitors to BWS Eastlands 
38. 
The ACCC is considering the closeness of competition between competing firms 
in the local market to determine which firms exert the most competitive constraint 
on one another. If a proposed acquisition involves firms that are considered to be 
close rivals, then competition concerns are more likely to be raised if this rivalry 
would be lost as a result of a proposed acquisition. 
39. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view based on market inquiries to date is that 
Lindisfarne Cellars, Beltana Hotel and BWS Eastlands are the three closest 
competitors for Lindisfarne residents. These competitors are all situated on, or 
near to, the main north-south arterial route that facilitates travel to and from the 
large Eastlands Shopping Centre, drawing a significant number of customers 


 
 
Page 7 of 9 
from Lindisfarne. The Eastlands Shopping Centre generates foot traffic for BWS 
Eastlands (which is part of the shopping centre complex, and situated 
immediately adjacent to the main building). 
40. 
In particular, the ACCC’s inquiries indicated Beltana Hotel is a close competitor 
with Lindisfarne Cellars, given its location (less than 1km from Lindisfarne 
Cellars), similar number of stock keeping units, and a comparable range. 
41. 
Market feedback suggests that Willows Tavern would place very limited 
competitive constraint on the merged firm. It provides a limited offer given it is a 
small bottleshop with a strong focus on convenience sales servicing the local 
Risdon and Risdon Vale area. In addition, unlike Lindisfarne and Rosny, Risdon 
(in which Willows Tavern is located) does not have a shopping strip or shopping 
centre to generate foot traffic. Its ability to pose a strong competitive constraint 
on the merged firm is therefore likely to be limited. 
42. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the Mornington Inn Hotel is not as close a 
competitor to Lindisfarne Cellars for Lindisfarne residents as the Beltana Hotel 
and BWS Eastlands. While there is some competitive overlap, the Mornington 
Inn Hotel generally draws customers from a different area since it is located 
further away on Cambridge Road and not on the main north-south arterial route. 
43. 
As to the Clarence Bottleshop and Waterfront Hotel, they are located even 
further away from Lindisfarne Cellars and are therefore distant market 
participants. They also do not benefit from the foot traffic generated by the 
Eastlands Shopping Centre in the same way as BWS Eastlands. 
44. 
In light of the above, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the closest competition 
in the local market is between Lindisfarne Cellars, Beltana Hotel and BWS 
Eastlands. Accordingly, the proposed acquisition would reduce the number of 
close competitors from three to two. 
Loss of competition and loss of choice available to consumers 
45. 
Market inquires to date indicate that Lindisfarne Cellars is a meaningful and 
effective competitor in the local market with a differentiated offer that is valued by 
customers. With the acquisition, the competitive tension and differentiated offer 
provided by Lindisfarne Cellars would be removed. 
46. 
Lindisfarne Cellars competes on price, range and service. Market inquiries 
suggest that its prices are competitive with other local bottleshops and that it 
offers the advertising and promotional activity of the Duncan’s Liquor banner 
group. Advertising is conducted online and in the local newspaper. 
47. 
The promotional products under the Duncan’s Liquor banner would continue to 
be available in the local market from Willows Tavern (Duncan’s Liquor).  
However, as indicated above, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that Willows 
Tavern’s location, size and product range reduces the extent to which its 
presence in the local market alleviates the competitive harm resulting from the 
proposed acquisition. 
48. 
Lindisfarne Cellars offers a variety of beer, wine and spirits, some of which are 
sourced locally in Tasmania. It has the ability to stock specific products on a 
local basis to satisfy customer preferences, as well as stocking regular products 
that can be found in most liquor stores. 
49. 
Lindisfarne Cellars offers a high level of service with a strong focus on building 
relationships with local residents. As an independent operator, it has a high 
degree of flexibility in being able to tailor service at a local level to meet 
individual customer and community needs. 


 
 
Page 8 of 9 
50. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that Lindisfarne Cellars provides a meaningful 
competitive and differentiated price and non-price offer that would be removed 
from the local market if the proposed acquisition proceeds. This would mean a 
loss of competitive tension and loss of choice for consumers. Woolworths would 
not replicate this differentiated offer. Instead, Woolworths would replace the 
Lindisfarne Cellars offer with that of BWS which is already available in the local 
market. 
Barriers to new entry 
51. 
Market inquiries indicate that Woolworths is unlikely to be constrained in the 
local market by the threat of new entry. There are high barriers to entry for the 
retail supply of packaged liquor in the local market, including the need for a 
liquor licence and access to a suitable site in order to operate a commercially 
viable bottleshop. 
52. 
The requirement to obtain a liquor licence from the Tasmanian liquor licensing 
authority to sell packaged liquor in Tasmania constitutes a regulatory barrier to 
entry. Interested parties suggest that the granting of a new off-licence in the local 
market would be unlikely, taking into account that it may not be in the best 
interest of the community as there are already a number of bottleshops in the 
local area. 
53. 
Interested parties submit that suitable sites for establishing a bottleshop are 
scarce as it is important to establish a bottleshop in close proximity to areas that 
generate a high level of foot traffic, such as close to existing shops, in order to 
improve the likelihood of successful new entry. As such it is most likely that a 
potential new entrant would be faced with having to redevelop an existing retail 
site. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the likely competition effects 
of the proposed acquisition. In particular, interested parties are invited to comment on: 
(i) 
market concentration and the extent to which Woolworths’ share of the local 
market would increase as a result of the proposed acquisition; 
(ii) 
the extent to which Lindisfarne Cellars is a vigorous and effective competitor in 
the local market, having regard to price (e.g. regular shelf prices and promotional 
activity) and non-price factors (e.g. range and service) and any harm to 
competition that would result from its removal as a competitor; 
(iii) 
the degree of competitive constraint provided by other competitors on each of 
Lindisfarne Cellars and BWS Eastlands, including by Willows Tavern, Beltana 
Hotel, Clarence Bottleshop, Waterfront Hotel, and any other relevant 
competitors; 
(iv) 
the extent to which customers value the differentiated offer provided by 
Lindisfarne Cellars and the loss of choice that would result if the proposed 
acquisition were to proceed; 
(v) 
the existing height of barriers to entry, including with reference to liquor licensing, 
access to suitable sites, and other relevant barriers; and 
(vi) 
whether the proposed acquisition would raise barriers to entry, having regard to 
the proposed establishment of a second BWS bottleshop in the local market. 


 
 
Page 9 of 9 
Issues unlikely to pose concerns 
54. 
Based on market inquiries to date, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the 
proposed acquisition would be unlikely to have the effect of substantially 
lessening competition in the state-wide market for the retail supply of packaged 
liquor or the wholesale market for the procurement and supply of packaged 
liquor in Tasmania. The acquisition of a single bottleshop would result in only a 
small increase in Woolworths’ share in both of these markets. 
The ACCC invites comments from interested parties on the likely competition effect of 
the proposed acquisition on the state-wide retail market and the wholesale market. 
ACCC's future steps 
55. 
The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers market responses 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
56. 
The ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on each of the 
issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that may be 
relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. 
57. 
Submissions are to be received by the ACCC no later than 17 January 2014. 
The ACCC will consider the submissions received from the market and the 
merger parties in light of the issues identified above and will, in conjunction with 
information and submissions already provided by the parties, come to a final 
view in light of the issues raised above. 
58. 
The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 13 February 2014. 
However the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Merger Review 
Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose of 
explaining the ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's public 
announcement. 
