 
 
1 
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
tel: (02) 6243 1368 
mergers@accc.gov.au
www.accc.gov.au
Our ref: IM-70066  
 
Contact officer: Stella Leung / Zac Sotidis 
 
Contact phone: 03 9658 6444 / 03 9658 6487 
17 May 2019 
Dear Interested Party 
Request for submissions: Bis Industries Holdings Limited’s proposed 
acquisition of Cougar Mining Group 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
the proposed acquisition of Cougar Mining Group Pty Ltd (Cougar) by Bis Industries 
Holdings Limited (Bis) (the proposed acquisition). 
Bis and Cougar both provide support services to the coal mining industry, including the 
hiring out of underground longwall relocation equipment and other specialised mining 
equipment. Further details regarding the acquisition can be found at Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact on competition. In particular, we are 
seeking your views on: 
 
the impact of the proposed acquisition on prices for the hiring of longwall relocation 
equipment and other coal mining equipment; 
 
alternatives to Bis and Cougar;  
 
the prospect of new entry or expansion of existing suppliers of mining equipment 
hire into providing longwall relocation equipment hire; and 
 
the impact of the proposed acquisition on the supply of outsourced activities relating 
to longwall relocation and run of mine.  
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
Please provide your response by no later than 5pm on 31 May 2019. Responses may be 


 
2 
emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: Submission re: Bis / Cougar - attention 
Stella Leung and Zac Sotidis. If you would like to arrange a time to discuss the matter with 
ACCC officers, or have any questions about this letter, please contact Stella Leung on 03 
9658 6444 or Zac Sotidis on 03 9658 6487. 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public 
Mergers Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We will not 
disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by 
law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or during court proceedings) or 
in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010.  Where the 
ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, the ACCC will notify you in advance 
where possible so that you may have an opportunity to be heard.  Therefore, if the 
information provided to the ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our 
Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
Tom Leuner 
General Manager 
Merger Investigations 


 
 
3 
Attachment A 
 
Bis Industries Holdings Limited 
Bis is a mining services, haulage and resource logistics company operating in 
Australia. It primarily services companies within the iron ore, coal, bauxite, nickel and 
gold mining industries. 
The services that Bis provides to the coal mining industry include the hiring out of 
mining equipment, including longwall relocation equipment and run of mine 
equipment, and mining services, including longwall relocation services, workshop 
repairs, field maintenance services, tyre sales and spare parts sales. 
Cougar Mining Group Pty Ltd 
Cougar is a privately owned company based in New South Wales. It operates 
facilities in Newcastle (New South Wales) and Emerald (Queensland). The services 
Cougar provides to the mining industry include equipment hire, workshop repairs, 
field maintenance services and spare parts. 
The equipment that Cougar hires out to its customers in the coal mining industry 
includes longwall relocation equipment, loaders, drift runners, and underground 
auxiliary fans and attachments. 
The proposed transaction 
Bis proposes to acquire 100 per cent of the shares in Cougar. 
Bis will not acquire Cougar’s affiliated Industrea Mining Equipment (IME) business. 
The IME business manufactures and supplies mining equipment, including longwall 
relocation equipment. 
Longwall mining  
The parties overlap in support services for underground coal mining, especially in the 
hiring out of longwall relocation equipment. 
Longwall coal mining is a method of underground coal mining that occurs in New 
South Wales and Queensland. It involves a mechanical cutter shearer that 
continually shaves slices of coal from a coalface (or longwall face). The coal is 
extracted and collected on a conveyer that runs parallel to the coalface, which then 
transports the coal for processing. Hydraulic roof supports are used to support and 
protect the roof of the mine. The hydraulic roof supports move forward as the 
coalface is mined. As the supports move forward, the roof of the mine collapses 
behind it. The size of the longwall face can vary, however they generally are three 
kilometres in length with a width of 250-400 metres. 
Once all the coal has been mined from the longwall block, a new longwall needs to 
be established, with the mining equipment moved to a new location in the mine and 
set up. This is a specialised task involving specialised equipment.  Once the 
equipment is relocated, it stays in place (on average, for about 9 to 16 months).  


 
 
4 
Attachment B 
1. Please provide a brief description of your business or organisation.  
2. Please outline the reasons for your interest in the proposed acquisition, including 
any commercial relationship/s with either of Bis or Cougar. 
Underground coal mining equipment hire  
3. Please describe the types of longwall relocation equipment and other 
underground coal mining equipment that your organisation: 
a. owns; 
b. hires out; or  
c. leases.  
Please provide information on the value of each type of the equipment and, if 
relevant, the frequency, duration and the prices for hiring out or leasing the 
equipment. 
4. Please address the closeness of competition between Bis and Cougar for the 
hiring out of longwall relocation equipment and other underground coal mining 
equipment. Relevant factors may include the range of equipment provided, 
whether the parties respond to each other’s pricing activity, and whether 
customers often switch between the two. Please provide specific examples where 
possible. 
5. Please describe alternative suppliers of the hiring of longwall relocation 
equipment and other underground coal mining equipment, and the extent to 
which they compete with Bis and Cougar. Relevant factors may include product 
ranges, geographic areas of supply, scale, and service standards. Please also 
consider in your response cross-hiring between mine operators. 
6. Please address the ability of either new entry or existing suppliers of mining 
equipment hire expanding into the supply of longwall relocation equipment hire, in 
response to a combined Bis/Cougar attempting to increase prices. Please 
discuss:  
a. costs of entry or expansion, and the extent to which these costs would or 
would not be recoverable on market exit; 
b. timeframe for entry or expansion; 
c. any regulatory barriers, such as technical approvals required, 
environmental regulations; 
d. long-term customer contracts with existing suppliers; 
e. access to key inputs or distribution channels;  
f. examples of recent market entry and exit. 
7. Please address the extent to which there are significant customers with the ability 
to source longwall relocation equipment and other underground coal mining 


 
5 
equipment for internal supply, or to sponsor new suppliers of equipment hire. If 
known, please provide any examples of this happening in the past. 
Outsourced underground coal mining activities 
8. Please describe the types of underground coal mining activities your organisation 
outsources that relate to longwall relocation and run of mine. Please provide the 
volume/value of your organisation’s outsourced activities.  
9. Please address the closeness of competition between Bis and Cougar for the 
supply of underground coal mining services. Relevant factors may include the 
range of services provided, prices and service standards. 
10. Please describe alternative suppliers of underground coal mining services and 
the extent to which they compete with Bis and/or Cougar. Relevant factors may 
include the range of services provided, prices and service standards. 
Other information or competition issues 
11. Please provide any additional information or comments, or identify other 
competition issues, that you consider relevant to the ACCC’s consideration of the 
proposed acquisition under section 50 of the Act.  
 
