 
 
Statement of Issues 
8 August 2019 
Bis Industries – proposed acquisition of Cougar Mining 
Group   
Purpose 
1. 
Bis Industries Holdings Limited (Bis) proposes to acquire Cougar Mining Group 
Pty Ltd (Cougar) (the proposed acquisition).  
2. 
This Statement of Issues: 
 
gives the preliminary views of the Australian Competition and Consumer 
Commission (ACCC) on competition issues arising from the proposed 
acquisition,  
 
identifies areas of further inquiry, and 
 
invites interested parties to submit comments and information to assist our 
assessment of the issues. 
3. 
Statements of Issues give preliminary views and do not refer to confidential 
information provided by the parties or other market participants, therefore they 
may not be a full articulation of the ACCC’s preliminary position. 
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views 
4. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is 
in section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits 
acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of 
substantially lessening competition in any market. 
5. 
The ACCC divides its preliminary views into three categories, 'issues of concern', 
'issues that may raise concerns' and ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’. 


Bis Industries Holdings Limited – proposed acquisition of Cougar Mining Group Pty Ltd 
 
Page 2 of 14 
Issue of concern 
6. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in the supply of longwall relocation equipment 
hire to underground coal mine operators in New South Wales and Queensland. 
7. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition would reduce the number 
of significant suppliers from two to one, and would likely lead to higher prices for 
hiring longwall relocation equipment and reduced service quality. 
8. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the threat of new entry or expansion and the 
potential for mine operators to self-supply longwall relocation equipment would 
not significantly constrain a combined Bis-Cougar. 
Issue unlikely to raise concerns 
9. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to 
substantially lessen competition in the supply of run of mine equipment hire to 
underground coal mine operators in New South Wales and Queensland, given 
that there are several alternative suppliers available. 
Making a submission 
10. 
The ACCC is seeking submissions from interested parties, particularly on the 
following key issues: 
 
the potential for new entry or expansion into the supply of longwall 
relocation equipment hire post-acquisition, 
 
the extent to which the potential for mine operators to self-supply longwall 
relocation equipment would constrain a combined Bis-Cougar, and 
 
the impact of the proposed acquisition on competition in the supply of run 
of mine equipment hire. 
11. 
Detailed discussion of these and other issues, along with specific questions, is 
contained in this Statement of Issues.  
12. 
Interested parties should provide submissions by no later than 5pm on 23 
August 2019. Responses may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: 
“Submission re: Bis / Cougar - attention Stella Leung and Zac Sotidis”. If you 
would like to discuss the matter with ACCC officers over the telephone or in 
person, or have any questions about this Statement of Issues, please contact 
Stella Leung on 03 9658 6444 or Zac Sotidis on 03 9658 6487.  
13. 
The ACCC anticipates making a final decision on 24 October 2019, however, 
this timeline can change. To keep abreast of possible changes in relation to 
timing and to find relevant documents, interested parties should visit the Mergers 
Register on the ACCC's website at www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
Confidentiality of submissions 
14. 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We 
will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) 


Bis Industries Holdings Limited – proposed acquisition of Cougar Mining Group Pty Ltd 
 
Page 3 of 14 
unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation 
or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition 
and Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where possible so that you may 
have an opportunity to be heard. Therefore, if the information provided to the 
ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’ 
15. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well 
as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
16. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 
Timeline 
 
Date 
Event 
17 May 2019 
ACCC commenced review of the proposed 
acquisition 
8 August 2019 
ACCC publication of Statement of Issues 
23 August 2019 
Deadline for submissions from interested parties in 
response to this Statement of Issues 
24 October 2019 
Anticipated date for ACCC final decision  
 
The parties 
Bis Industries 
17. 
Bis is an Australian unlisted public company. It provides equipment hire, haulage 
and logistics services to companies in the coal, iron ore, bauxite, nickel and gold 
mining industries in Australia.  
18. 
Bis provides services to the underground coal mining industry in New South 
Wales and Queensland. These services include:  
a. mining equipment hire, including longwall relocation equipment hire and run 
of mine equipment hire,  
b. longwall relocation and run of mine labour hire, and  


Bis Industries Holdings Limited – proposed acquisition of Cougar Mining Group Pty Ltd 
 
Page 4 of 14 
c. workshop repairs, field maintenance services, tyre sales and spare parts 
sales.  
19. 
Bis purchased Shell Coal’s longwall relocation equipment and expanded into 
specialised underground coal mining equipment hire in 1997. 
Cougar Mining Group 
20. 
Cougar is a privately owned company based in Newcastle, New South Wales. It 
provides services to the underground coal mining industry in New South Wales 
and Queensland. These services include: 
a. mining equipment hire, including longwall relocation equipment hire and run 
of mine equipment hire, and 
b. workshop repairs, field maintenance services and spare parts services to 
the underground coal mining industry. 
21. 
Cougar commenced longwall relocation equipment hire services in 2016. 
The proposed acquisition 
22. 
Bis proposes to acquire 100 per cent of the shares in Cougar.  
23. 
Cougar has related entities that manufacture mining equipment. These entities 
are not a part of the proposed acquisition. One of these entities is Australian 
Mining Equipment (formerly Cougar IME) which manufactures longwall 
relocation equipment and which was acquired in 2018 by the corporate group of 
which Cougar is a part. The other entities are CH4 Drilling (formerly Cougar 
Drilling) and Cougar Stratajacks. 
Industry background 
Longwall coal mining 
24. 
Mining a coal seam located deep underground is achieved through either a ‘bord 
and pillar’ or a ‘longwall’ mining method.  
25. 
The longwall coal mining method involves a mechanical cutter that continually 
shaves slices of coal from a coalface (or longwall). The coal is extracted, 
collected on a conveyer that runs parallel to the longwall, and transported for 
processing. Hydraulic roof supports, known as chocks, protect the mine from 
collapse during the operation. The chocks move forward as the coalface is 
mined, enabling the roof of the mine to collapse from behind them. The size of 
longwall faces can vary. Longwalls are generally three kilometres long and 250-
400 metres wide.  
26. 
Once all of the available coal along the longwall is mined, a new longwall needs 
to be established elsewhere within the same mine and the longwall coal mining 
machinery needs to be moved and set up in the new location. This is referred to 
as a longwall relocation.  
27. 
A longwall relocation occurs approximately every 9-18 months at a mine and it 
takes approximately six to eight weeks to accomplish a longwall relocation. It is 


Bis Industries Holdings Limited – proposed acquisition of Cougar Mining Group Pty Ltd 
 
Page 5 of 14 
critical that longwall relocations occur at the scheduled time to avoid expensive 
coal production delays. 
28. 
Currently there are 23 longwall coal mines located in Queensland and New 
South Wales operated by 12 mine operators. A number of these mine operators 
are large multinational companies. 
Longwall relocation equipment 
29. 
Specialised equipment is required to move longwall mining machinery. This 
equipment has limited or no alternative uses. The most important tasks in a 
longwall relocation include recovering chocks, installing chocks in a new location 
within the mine, and relocating the mechanical cutter (known as a shearer). The 
main pieces of equipment for a longwall relocation include: 
a. Chock hauler (used to carry chocks between locations), 
b. Chock trailer (an alternative piece to carry chocks between locations), 
c. Shearer carrier (used to relocate the shearer), 
d. Shearer trailer (an alternative piece to relocate the shearer), 
e. Heavy lift loader (used to lift and load chocks and other heavy implements), 
f. Mule (used to install and retrieve chocks), and 
g. Dozer (an alternative piece to install and retrieve chocks). 
30. 
Longwall relocation equipment is generally expensive. Individual pieces of 
longwall relocation equipment can range from hundreds of thousands to millions 
of dollars. 
31. 
Longwall relocation equipment must meet specific regulatory requirements and 
mechanical and electrical codes to ensure it can be safely operated in 
underground mines. Also, specialist expertise and ongoing costs are required to 
maintain individual pieces to a compliant state. 
Sources of longwall relocation equipment 
32. 
Longwall relocation equipment can be purchased from original equipment 
manufacturers (OEMs). In Australia, suppliers of longwall relocation equipment 
include: 
a. Sandvik, 
b. Hastings Deering (Caterpillar), 
c. Australian Mining Equipment (formerly Cougar IME), 
d. PPK Mining Equipment, and 
e. Valley Longwall International. 


Bis Industries Holdings Limited – proposed acquisition of Cougar Mining Group Pty Ltd 
 
Page 6 of 14 
33. 
Purchasing new longwall relocation equipment from an OEM involves significant 
lead-times. For some pieces of equipment, it may take 18 months from placing 
an order to delivery. 
34. 
Longwall relocation equipment can sometimes be purchased second-hand in 
Australia or from overseas. Second-hand longwall relocation equipment 
purchased from overseas often needs to be refurbished to meet Australian 
standards. 
Hiring of longwall relocation equipment   
35. 
Longwall relocation equipment is expensive and is only required infrequently at a 
mine. Owning equipment also involves employing skilled labour to maintain the 
equipment and to ensure that the equipment complies with regulatory 
requirements. While some longwall coal mine operators own some pieces of 
longwall relocation equipment, the ACCC understands that all mine operators 
hire at least part of their longwall relocation equipment requirements. Most mine 
operators rely on hire companies to supply a substantial portion of their longwall 
relocation equipment requirements. 
36. 
The main suppliers of longwall relocation equipment hire in Australia are Bis and 
Cougar. There are other hire companies that own limited pieces of longwall 
relocation equipment. These companies include: 
a. Longwall Haul – a New South Wales based supplier of equipment hire and 
other mining services to the underground coal mining industry, and 
b. Impact Mining Equipment – a New South Wales based supplier of 
equipment hire, parts and consumables to the underground coal mining 
industry.  
37. 
Longwall relocation equipment hire companies may also enter into cross-hire 
arrangements under which the equipment hire company acts as an intermediary 
in hiring out pieces of longwall relocation equipment owned by mine operators or 
other hire companies.  
Labour hire for longwall relocation 
38. 
Mine operators can outsource the labour requirements for longwall relocations to 
contractors that provide longwall relocation labour hire services. 
39. 
Suppliers of longwall relocation labour hire in New South Wales and Queensland 
include: 
a. Bis, 
b. Mastermyne, 
c. Lunar Mining, 
d. One Key Resources, and 
e. Tolk Group. 


Bis Industries Holdings Limited – proposed acquisition of Cougar Mining Group Pty Ltd 
 
Page 7 of 14 
40. 
The ACCC understands that suppliers of labour hire for longwall relocations do 
not necessarily provide longwall relocation equipment hire services to mine 
operators. However, suppliers of labour hire may source equipment from 
equipment hire companies (if they do not own the equipment) to carry out 
contracts. 
Run of mine equipment 
41. 
‘Run of mine’ equipment refers to equipment used to carry out general 
operations of an underground coal mine. Examples of tasks include the 
transportation of personnel or coal, power generation and ground surfacing. 
42. 
Commonly used pieces of run of mine equipment include: 
a. Load Haul Dump machines (used to transport ore and other objects), 
b. Flitmates (used to generate power), 
c. Graders (used to create a flat surface within the mine), and 
d. Personnel carriers or transporters, also known as drift runners (used to 
transport personnel into, out of, and within the mine). 
43. 
The ACCC understands that run of mine equipment is generally used more 
frequently than longwall relocation equipment.  
Hiring of run of mine equipment  
44. 
While coal mine operators own fleets of run of mine equipment, hiring some 
pieces of run of mine equipment is prevalent to meet their fluctuating needs.  
45. 
Bis and Cougar are both major suppliers of run of mine equipment hire in 
Australia. Other large suppliers include: 
a. Impact Mining Equipment, 
b. Alfabs – a New South Wales based supplier of logistics, parts, 
consumables and equipment hire services to the coal mining industry, and  
c. PIMS Group – a Queensland based supplier of mining services and 
equipment hire to the coal mining and related industries.  
46. 
There are also a number of smaller suppliers of run of mine equipment. Run of 
mine equipment hire companies may also facilitate cross-hiring of this 
equipment.   
Issue of concern: reduction in competition in longwall 
relocation equipment hire 
47. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in the supply of longwall relocation equipment 
hire to underground coal mine operators in New South Wales and Queensland.  


Bis Industries Holdings Limited – proposed acquisition of Cougar Mining Group Pty Ltd 
 
Page 8 of 14 
Market definition 
48. 
The ACCC considers that for the purpose of assessing the competition effects of 
the proposed acquisition, the most appropriate market definition is likely to be 
the supply of longwall relocation equipment hire to underground coal mine 
operators in New South Wales and Queensland.   
Product dimension of the market 
49. 
The ACCC understands that underground longwall relocation requires 
specialised pieces of equipment that are generally purpose built to undertake 
specific tasks associated with longwall relocations, and have limited or no 
alternative uses. The ACCC considers that for the purpose of assessing the 
proposed acquisition, the market for longwall relocation equipment hire is likely 
to be separate from markets for the hiring of other types of coal mining 
equipment. 
50. 
The ACCC considers that the supply of longwall relocation equipment by hiring is 
distinct from the supply of longwall relocation equipment for purchasing. As 
discussed in ‘Constraints from mine operators’ self-supply’ below, while 
some mine operators own some pieces of longwall relocation equipment, mine 
operators generally do not consider owning a full suite of longwall relocation 
equipment to meet all or most of their requirements to be commercially 
justifiable, and all mine operators hire at least part of their longwall relocation 
equipment requirements. Mine operators are unlikely to switch from hiring to 
purchasing unless there is a very substantial price increase in hiring. Therefore, 
the ACCC considers that hiring and purchasing equipment are not close 
substitutes. 
Geographic scope of the market 
51. 
The ACCC considers that the geographic dimension of the relevant market is 
likely to comprise both of New South Wales and Queensland. The parties 
provide longwall equipment hire in both New South Wales and Queensland. 
Market feedback generally indicates that pieces of longwall relocation equipment 
are transported between mines in both states via trucks.  
52. 
Some market participants have stated that due to high costs for transporting 
underground coal mining equipment, the equipment must be in close proximity to 
the mine where it will be utilised. This may indicate that there are separate 
markets for New South Wales and Queensland. The ACCC considers that in the 
present case, the same issues arise regardless of whether New South Wales 
and Queensland are treated as belonging to the same market or separate 
markets.  
Removal of Cougar as the only main competitor 
Bis and Cougar are close competitors 
53. 
Market inquiries suggest that Bis and Cougar are the two main suppliers of 
longwall relocation equipment hire to underground coal mine operators in New 
South Wales and Queensland. 
54. 
The ACCC understands that Bis and Cougar are the only hire companies that 
have all or most of the pieces of equipment required for longwall relocation, and 


Bis Industries Holdings Limited – proposed acquisition of Cougar Mining Group Pty Ltd 
 
Page 9 of 14 
that they are the only companies that can provide the full suite of longwall 
relocation equipment for hire in New South Wales and Queensland.  
55. 
Between the two companies, Bis has a larger fleet of longwall relocation 
equipment and has a larger market share. However, market feedback indicates 
that Cougar has been competing closely with Bis. The two companies often 
tender for the same contracts and have been willing to negotiate on prices with 
customers in response to the other’s prices. Customers generally consider 
Cougar’s prices to be cheaper than Bis’ and that Cougar has constrained Bis’ 
ability to raise prices. Some customers have also stated that competition 
between Bis and Cougar has enabled them to obtain favourable contract terms 
that ensure access to equipment when needed.  
Alternative suppliers do not compete strongly with Bis and Cougar 
56. 
Market feedback indicates that other hire companies, such as Longwall Haul and 
Impact Mining, do not compete strongly with Bis and Cougar. These other hire 
companies own limited pieces of longwall relocation equipment and do not own 
some of the key pieces of this equipment. They are not able to provide a full 
suite of longwall relocation equipment. The competition between these 
companies and Bis and Cougar is limited to the small range of equipment these 
companies do own. In addition, mine operators may not consider hire companies 
that do not offer a full suite of equipment to be alternatives to Bis and Cougar, 
because they cannot provide a ‘one stop shop’. Market feedback indicates that 
customers typically hire all of their required equipment for a longwall relocation 
from a single supplier, rather than hire different pieces of equipment from 
different suppliers. This is to enable efficiency in managing hiring arrangements 
and to minimise the risk of equipment being unavailable due to different 
scheduling of different suppliers.  
57. 
Market feedback indicates that other hire companies generally are not able to 
submit competitive tenders. Instead, some of these companies hire out their 
equipment to Cougar to supplement Cougar’s fleet.  
Cross-hiring is a weak constraint 
58. 
The parties submit that cross-hiring of equipment between mine operators is an 
alternative to equipment hire supplied by Bis and Cougar, and that this imposes 
a competitive constraint on them. However, the ACCC understands that some 
mine operators that own longwall relocation equipment are unwilling to hire out 
their equipment, as they generally own small amounts to mitigate their own risk 
in delays associated with potential unavailability of hire equipment. Also, some 
mine operators do not wish to hire out their equipment to competitors. Where 
mine operators do hire out their equipment, this is usually done through Bis or 
Cougar as an intermediary. In cases where mine operators directly hire out 
equipment to other mines, this usually only occurs where there is an emergency 
situation. Therefore, the ACCC does not consider that cross-hiring between mine 
operators places a strong constraint on Bis and Cougar.  
Constraints from new entry and expansion 
59. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the threat of new entry or expansion would 
not significantly constrain the ability of a combined Bis-Cougar to increase prices 
or to decrease service levels. 


Bis Industries Holdings Limited – proposed acquisition of Cougar Mining Group Pty Ltd 
 
Page 10 of 14 
60. 
A company entering or expanding into the supply of longwall relocation 
equipment hire would face the following barriers:  
 
customers’ reluctance to hire equipment from an unknown entity,  
 
high capital costs and long lead times in acquiring longwall relocation 
equipment,  
 
time and costs for meeting regulatory requirements, and  
 
uncertainty of future demand. 
61. 
Market feedback indicates that mine operators would be hesitant to enter into a 
hiring arrangement with an unknown entity, as there is significant risk to mine 
operators if equipment is not available as required. Potentially, manufacturers of 
mine equipment could enter into the supply of longwall relocation equipment 
hire. However, most market participants consider this unlikely, as providing hiring 
services is not historically these manufacturers’ main business. Potentially, other 
equipment hire or labour hire companies could enter or expand into the supply of 
longwall relocation equipment hire. However, market inquiries to date have not 
identified hire companies that are likely to do so post-acquisition in the event of a 
price increase. The ACCC is continuing to explore the possibility of entry or 
expansion by these companies.  
62. 
The ACCC understands that for a company to enter or expand into the supply of 
longwall relocation equipment hire, it would need to incur a large capital outlay to 
purchase a reasonable range (if not the full suite) of longwall relocation 
equipment. Further, it is likely that the company seeking to enter or expand will 
need to purchase new equipment, as the opportunity to purchase second-hand 
equipment does not arise often and a company wishing to build a fleet cannot 
wait for such an opportunity to arise. The costs of acquiring new equipment may 
be at least partially irreversible (or ‘sunk’) once incurred. Sunk costs can deter 
entry or expansion, particularly in the face of uncertainty about the investor’s 
success. In addition, purchasing new equipment involves significant lead-times, 
for some equipment it may take 18 months from placing an order to delivery. 
63. 
A potential new entrant would face regulatory barriers. It can take 12 months or 
more to obtain regulatory approvals for operating equipment. The hire company 
also needs to comply with standards regarding the maintenance of the 
equipment, which involves significant costs, including in retaining a workforce 
with appropriate expertise. 
64. 
Some market participants have stated that as longwall mining technology 
advances, there may be fewer longwall relocations in the future. This is because 
advances in technology result in larger longwall panels being utilised and 
longwall relocation projects consequently being undertaken less frequently. 
These market participants consider that it is unlikely that the number of longwall 
relocations occurring in the industry in the medium-term future would justify 
investment by a new entrant.  
65. 
These barriers and market conditions mean that timely entry or expansion on a 
scale sufficient to constrain a combined Bis-Cougar may be unlikely. However, 
the ACCC is continuing to explore this issue.   


Bis Industries Holdings Limited – proposed acquisition of Cougar Mining Group Pty Ltd 
 
Page 11 of 14 
66. 
The parties have argued that mine operators could sponsor new entry or 
expansion into the supply of longwall equipment hire and this would place 
constraints on a combined Bis-Cougar. However, because longwall relocation 
occurs infrequently at a mine, a single mine operator is usually not in a position 
to contract for a significant proportion of the capacity of a company seeking to 
enter or expand, even where the mine operator operates multiple mines. This 
may make it more difficult for a company seeking to enter or expand to secure 
sufficient utilisation of its capacity before entering or expanding. 
67. 
The ACCC also notes that Cougar itself is a recent entrant into longwall 
relocation equipment hire. However, the ACCC understands that Cougar’s entry 
into longwall relocation equipment hire in 2016 involved purchasing equipment 
second-hand from a hire company that went into administration. The ACCC 
considers that such opportunities are rare and unlikely to arise in the medium 
term.  
Constraints from mine operators’ self-supply 
68. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the constraint placed on a combined Bis-
Cougar by mine operators’ self-supply is likely to be limited. 
69. 
The ACCC understands that some mine operators own some pieces of 
relocation equipment to mitigate risks associated with the required equipment 
being unavailable from hire companies. However, market feedback indicates that 
mine operators generally do not consider owning a full suite of longwall 
relocation equipment to meet all or most of their requirements to be 
commercially justifiable. This is due to the high cost of purchasing and 
maintaining the equipment and the infrequency of longwall relocations. In 
addition, owning longwall relocation equipment involves employing skilled labour 
proficient in maintaining the equipment and complying with regulatory 
requirements. The ACCC understands that mine operators generally do not 
consider this to be part of their core business.  
70. 
The ACCC understands that currently all mine operators hire at least part of their 
longwall relocation equipment requirements, and most mine operators rely on 
hire companies to supply a substantial portion of their longwall relocation 
equipment requirements. Mine operators that own some pieces of longwall 
relocation equipment still rely on hire companies, because these mine operators 
do not own a full suite of this equipment, their equipment does not meet the 
specifications of all their mines, or there is a clash of relocation schedules at 
their mines. 
71. 
The ACCC understands that there is a sizeable gap between the current prices 
for hiring and the costs of owning longwall relocation equipment. Also, there are 
significant lead-times for purchasing new longwall relocation equipment. The 
ACCC’s preliminary view is that post-acquisition Bis could raise prices 
substantially, but just below the point that would push mine operators into 
purchasing their own longwall relocation equipment or expanding their existing 
suite of this equipment. 
Conclusion 
72. 
Given the above, the ACCC’s preliminary view is the proposed acquisition would 
remove Bis’ only close competitor in the supply of longwall relocation equipment, 


Bis Industries Holdings Limited – proposed acquisition of Cougar Mining Group Pty Ltd 
 
Page 12 of 14 
and would likely lead to higher prices for hiring longwall relocation equipment 
and reduced service quality. 
73. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the threat of new entry or expansion and the 
potential for mine operators to self-supply longwall relocation equipment would 
not significantly constrain a combined Bis-Cougar. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to the 
supply of longwall relocation equipment hire to underground coal mine operators in 
New South Wales and Queensland. In particular market participants may wish to 
comment on the following: 
 
Distinguishing the supply of longwall relocation equipment hire services from other 
mining equipment hire services. 
 
The extent to which a combined Bis-Cougar would be constrained from raising 
prices or decreasing service levels by other suppliers of longwall relocation 
equipment hire, or by mine operators self-supplying longwall relocation equipment. 
Customers of longwall relocation equipment hire 
 
The importance of a longwall relocation equipment hire company’s ability to 
provide a ‘one stop shop’ for longwall relocation equipment hire requirements, and 
the circumstances in which you would consider sourcing different pieces of 
equipment from multiple suppliers. 
 
If you own pieces of longwall relocation equipment, which pieces you own, why 
you choose to own rather than hire these particular pieces, and the circumstances 
in which you do or would cross-hire your equipment to other mine operators or to 
existing or new entrant equipment hire companies. 
 
The extent to which proven experience or a track record in longwall relocation 
equipment hire (including supplying the required pieces of equipment at the 
scheduled time) is important to you when selecting a longwall relocation equipment 
hire company. 
 
The circumstances in which you would sponsor new entry or expansion of a 
company to supply longwall relocation equipment hire services, and who this would 
be, for example, OEMs, other equipment or labour hire companies, etc. 
 
The circumstances in which you would purchase pieces of longwall relocation 
equipment rather than hiring them, which pieces you would purchase, and whether 
you would still need to rely on hire companies to meet your longwall relocation 
requirements even after purchasing equipment.  
Suppliers and potential suppliers of longwall relocation equipment hire 
 
The minimum efficient scale and scope of operation required to be able to compete 
effectively with a combined Bis-Cougar in longwall relocation equipment hire. 
 
The ease and speed with which existing suppliers of longwall relocation 
equipment, OEMs, or other equipment or labour hire companies could expand, or 
new entrants enter, into the supply of longwall relocation equipment hire in 


Bis Industries Holdings Limited – proposed acquisition of Cougar Mining Group Pty Ltd 
 
Page 13 of 14 
response to a combined Bis-Cougar attempting to increase prices or decrease 
service levels. 
 
The investments a firm would need to make to enter or expand successfully into 
the supply of longwall relocation equipment hire, such as equipment, regulatory 
approvals, maintenance and servicing of equipment. Specify the type, scale, 
indicative costs of, and lead-time associated with, the investment. 
 
The frequency with which second-hand longwall relocation equipment that is 
suitable for use in Australian longwall coal mines has become available in the past, 
and the circumstances or market conditions in which it has become available.  
 
Where you can source longwall relocation equipment (new or second-hand) for 
entry or expansion into longwall relocation equipment hire, and whether a new 
entrant can supplement its equipment fleet through cross-hire arrangements to 
compete with a combined Bis-Cougar. 
Issue unlikely to raise concern: run of mine equipment hire 
74. 
The parties also provide run of mine equipment hire to underground coal mine 
operators in New South Wales and Queensland 
75. 
The ACCC understands that underground coal mining involves specialised run of 
mine equipment, although some run of mine equipment may also be used for 
other types of mining. The ACCC considers that the hiring of run of mine 
equipment for underground coal mining may form a separate market from the 
hiring of other types of mining equipment, including surface coal mining 
equipment. However, it is unnecessary to form a definitive view on this.  
76. 
Market participants have not raised concerns about the impact of the proposed 
acquisition on run of mine equipment hire. Market feedback indicates that there 
are a number of alternative suppliers of run of mine equipment hire for 
underground coal mining in New South Wales and Queensland, for example, 
Alfabs, Impact Mining, Valley Longwall International, and Southern Mine Hire. 
77. 
The ACCC considers that post-acquisition there are likely to be sufficient 
constraints on a combined Bis-Cougar from remaining competitors. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary views about 
competition in the supply of run of mine equipment hire for underground coal mining in 
New South Wales and Queensland. 
ACCC's future steps 
78. 
As noted above, the ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on 
each of the issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue 
that may be relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. Submissions are 
to be received by the ACCC no later than 23 August 2019 and should be 
emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au. 
79. 
The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 


Bis Industries Holdings Limited – proposed acquisition of Cougar Mining Group Pty Ltd 
 
Page 14 of 14 
80. 
The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 24 October 2019. 
However the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose 
of explaining the ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's 
public announcement to explain its final view. 
