 
 
 
 
Land of the Ngunnawal people
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
Tel 02 6243 1111 
Fax 02 6243 1199
www.accc.gov.au
Our ref: IM-72815 
 
31 January 2025 
Dear Interested Party 
Re: ACCC seeking your views: Allianz’s Proposed Acquisition of RAAI  
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
the proposed acquisition of Royal Automobile Association of South Australia Incorporated’s 
(RAA) general insurance business through the acquisition of RAA Insurance Holdings 
Limited and its subsidiary RAA Insurance Limited (together, RAAI) by Allianz Australia 
Insurance Limited (Allianz) (the Proposed Acquisition). 
Allianz and RAAI both provide personal lines general insurance, including home, contents 
and motor vehicle insurance. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact of the Proposed Acquisition on 
competition in Australia. In particular, we are seeking your views on: 
• 
how closely Allianz and RAAI compete in the supply of personal lines general 
insurance 
• 
the extent to which alternative suppliers of personal lines of general insurance will 
competitively constrain the merged entity 
• 
the likely impact of the Proposed Acquisition on prices and quality of personal lines 
of insurance products 
• 
the likely impact of Allianz’s increased scale on the acquisition of ancillary repair 
services, including the impact on prices or terms of supply for suppliers.  
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B. 
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test the ACCC applies when assessing mergers and acquisitions is in section 50 of 
the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are likely to 
have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market.  
Please provide your response by 14 February 2025 via email to mergers@accc.gov.au with 
the title: Submission re: Allianz - RAAI. If you require more time to respond, please let us 
know. 
If you would like to arrange a time to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any 
questions about this letter, please contact mergers@accc.gov.au.  


 
 
 
 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public Mergers 
Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We will not 
disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by 
law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or during court proceedings) or in 
accordance with s155AAA of the CCA. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where possible so that you may have an 
opportunity to be heard. Therefore, if the information provided to the ACCC is of a 
confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our Informal Merger Review Process 
Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality 
 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
 
Simon Pomery 
Acting General Manager  
Merger Investigations


 
 
 
3 
 
Attachment A – Overview of the merger parties and the Proposed Acquisition 
Allianz  
Allianz Group is a global insurance service provider. Allianz offers a range of insurance 
products to customers in Australia. Allianz distributes general insurance products (including 
home, contents and motor insurance) directly to customers in Australia through its call 
centres and website, as well as through distribution arrangements with partners such as 
brokers, financial institutions and motor vehicle dealers.  
RAAI 
RAA is an Australian-based, member-owned organisation that offers roadside assistance 
products, general insurance products, and other ancillary services to its members.  The 
Proposed Acquisition does not include RAA’s membership-based business, which includes 
its roadside assistance business. 
RAAI underwrites home, contents and motor insurance.  
All of RAAI’s products are distributed through the RAA network via call centres, physical 
branches (all of which are located in South Australia) and the RAA website. 
Areas of overlap 
Allianz and RAAI overlap in the supply of personal lines general insurance, including home, 
contents and motor insurance.  
The Proposed Acquisition 
Allianz is proposing to acquire RAAI, and enter into a 20-year agreement for RAA to 
exclusively distribute certain Allianz and RAAI underwritten insurance products.  
 
 


 
 
 
4 
 
Attachment B – List of questions 
1. To better understand your views, describe your business or organisation and explain 
your interest in the Proposed Acquisition, including any commercial relationship(s) with 
Allianz or RAAI. 
Relevant markets 
2. The ACCC is considering which markets are most relevant to assess the competition 
effects of the Proposed Acquisition. The ACCC is considering whether the relevant 
markets are:  
(a) personal lines general insurance or separate markets for each of home, contents 
and motor insurance  
(b) national or South Australian markets for personal lines general insurance or each 
of home, contents and motor insurance 
(c) national or South Australian markets for each of smash repairs, windscreen 
repairs and replacements, and building repairs.  
The ACCC seeks your views on which markets set out above are most relevant to 
assess the Proposed Acquisition, and also whether the ACCC should consider other 
markets (or differently defined markets) as part of its analysis. 
In particular, the ACCC seeks your views on whether South Australia should be 
considered as a separate geographic market for the supply of home, contents and motor 
insurance.     
Personal lines general insurance 
3. Describe how closely Allianz and RAAI compete with one another in the supply of 
personal lines general insurance, particularly home, contents and motor vehicle 
insurance. Please also indicate whether you consider that Allianz and RAAI are each 
other’s closest competitors for any lines of insurance.  
4. Describe the current nature and level of competition between Allianz and RAAI and other 
providers of person lines general insurance in Australia. If possible, indicate: 
(a) the key competitors to Allianz and RAAI, particularly for home, contents and motor 
insurance 
(b) estimated market shares (broken down by insurance line if possible)  
(c) whether Allianz and/or RAAI (including through their various brands) have a 
reputation for being particularly low priced, innovative or aggressive competitors 
(d) the extent to which products provided by other insurers are substitutable for 
products provided by Allianz and RAAI 
(e) whether competitors have the ability to expand their insurance offering, 
particularly by moving into insuring different risk types or asset classes. 
5. Explain the extent to which competing suppliers of personal lines of general insurance 
(including home, contents and motor insurance) would be able to deter the merged 
Allianz/RAAI from increasing prices, reducing its product range, or diminishing the quality 
of its products.  
6. Please comment on the role that insurance brokers and other intermediaries play in the 
industry. In particular, discuss whether the threat of these intermediaries directing 
consumers towards a different insurer’s product could prevent the merged entity from 
imposing a significant increase in premiums. 


 
 
 
5 
 
Entry and expansion 
7. Identify any recent or upcoming examples of entry or exit in the supply of personal lines 
of general insurance in Australia. 
8. Outline the barriers to entering the supply of personal lines of general insurance in 
Australia. In your response, you may wish to comment on: 
(a) capital costs and length of time necessary for entry 
(b) economies of scale 
(c) branding 
(d) the ease with which customers can switch insurance providers 
(e) any regulatory barriers 
(f) any other barriers to entry. 
9. Discuss how readily a supplier of other types of insurance could expand into the supply 
of personal lines of general insurance in Australia.  
Ancillary repair services 
10. Describe how closely Allianz and RAAI compete with one another, and other companies, 
in the acquisition of ancillary repair services, including smash repairs, windscreen repairs 
and replacements, and building repairs.  
11. Would the merged entity be likely to have the ability and incentive to reduce the prices or 
otherwise degrade the terms on which it acquires ancillary repair services. Please 
explain why you consider that the merged entity would (or would not) have such an ability 
or incentive, including whether competition from other insurers would be sufficiently 
strong to prevent the merged entity from doing so.  
Other information and competition issues 
12. Provide any additional information or comments that you consider relevant to the ACCC’s 
consideration of the Proposed Acquisition. 
 
