 
Page 1 of 26 
 
Statement of Issues 
26 May 2016 
Proposed acquisition of Asciano by a consortium 
comprising Brookfield, Qube & Others  
Purpose 
1. 
This Statement of Issues relates to the proposed acquisition of Asciano Limited 
(Asciano) by a consortium comprising Brookfield Infrastructure Partners L.P. 
(and certain of its affiliates) (Brookfield), Qube Holdings Limited (Qube), Global 
Infrastructure Management, LLC (on behalf of itself and its managed funds and 
clients) (GIP), Canada Pension Plan Investment Board (CPPIB), CIC Capital 
Corporation (CIC Capital), British Columbia Investment Management 
Corporation (bcIMC), GIC Private Limited (GIC) and Qatar Investment Authority 
(QIA) (collectively, the Consortium).  
2. 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) commenced its 
consideration of the proposed acquisition on 30 March 2016. 
3. 
This Statement of issues aims to: 
 
give the ACCC’s preliminary views on competition issues arising from the 
proposed acquisition 
 
identify areas of further inquiry 
 
give all interested parties an opportunity to comment 
 
invite interested parties to submit information to assist the ACCC in its 
assessment of the issues. 
4. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern. It 
provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including customers, 
competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and consider the 
issues identified by the ACCC.  
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views 
5. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is 
in section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the Act). Section 50 


Proposed acquisition of Asciano by consortium comprising Brookfield, Qube & Others 
 
Page 2 of 26 
prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of 
substantially lessening competition in any market. 
6. 
The ACCC divides its preliminary views into three categories, 'issues of concern', 
'issues that may raise concerns' and 'issues unlikely to raise concerns'. For this 
matter, the ACCC has three issues that may raise concerns. 
Issues that may raise concerns 
The ability and incentive to discriminate against rival rail providers that transport 
containers from regional NSW to Port Botany for export 
7. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition, through the 
vertical integration of the Port Botany Patrick container terminal with Qube’s rail 
container transport operations, may result in a substantial lessening of 
competition in the market for regional rail services to Port Botany.  
8. 
The ACCC is considering the extent to which Qube, through its 50 per cent 
interest in the Port Botany Patrick container terminal, would have the ability and 
incentive to discriminate against Qube’s rail competitors that require access to 
the container terminal.  
Increased incentive to discriminate against rival landside logistics businesses 
9. 
The ACCC's preliminary view is that the alignment of Patrick container terminals 
with both Qube and ACFS (the two largest providers of landside export-import 
container logistics in Australia) may result in a substantial lessening of 
competition in the markets for landside logistics at the Ports of Botany, Brisbane, 
Fremantle and Melbourne. 
10. 
The ACCC is considering the extent to which Qube, Brookfield, GIC, bcIMC and 
QIA, through their ownership of the Patrick container terminals, would have the 
ability and parallel incentive to provide preferential access to Qube and ACFS 
and raise the costs of rival providers of landside logistics.  
Foreclosure of rival stevedores  
11. 
The ACCC is also concerned that the alignment of the landside logistics 
operations of both Qube and ACFS with Patrick container terminals may 
substantially lessen competition in the market for container stevedoring at each 
relevant port. 
12. 
The ACCC is considering whether this alignment would give Qube and ACFS the 
ability and incentive to provide preferential treatment to importers and exporters 
who use the shipping lines calling at Patrick container terminals. Qube and 
ACFS may have the ability to offer a level of service that rivals cannot match 
because Qube and ACFS would have preferential access at Patrick container 
terminals. The ACCC is also considering the extent to which Qube and ACFS 
could offer a bundle of stevedoring and empty container park services to 
shipping lines. Taken together, the ACCC is concerned that, over time, the 
proposed acquisition may result in the foreclosure of non-Patrick stevedores. 


Proposed acquisition of Asciano by consortium comprising Brookfield, Qube & Others 
 
Page 3 of 26 
Issues unlikely to raise concerns 
Cross-shareholdings 
13. 
The proposed acquisition gives rise to a number of cross-shareholdings between 
members of the Consortium and other relevant businesses.  
14. 
Having regard to the concerns raised to date by industry participants on this 
issue and the ACCC's consideration of the transaction documents provided by 
the parties, the ACCC's preliminary view is that the cross-shareholdings are 
unlikely to materially influence or facilitate behaviour by the Consortium parties 
that would be likely to result in a substantial lessening of competition in any 
relevant market.  
Acquisition of Pacific National 
15. 
The ACCC has considered whether the proposed acquisition of Pacific National 
by GIP, CPPIB, CIC Capital, GIC and bcIMC (the Rail Consortium), has the 
potential to raise competition issues by:  
 
combining Asciano's Pacific National business with any relevant GIP, 
CPPIB, CIC Capital, GIC and bcIMC investment or operations 
 
the common financial interests between consortium members created by 
the transaction structure 
 
facilitating the transfer of commercially sensitive information between 
competitors.  
16. 
The ACCC has considered submissions on this issue and the various interests of 
all of the Rail Consortium parties, and its preliminary view is that none of the 
competitive overlaps or commercial relationships are likely to give rise to 
competition concerns in any relevant markets. 
Acquisition of Patrick Bulk and Automotive Port Services 
17. 
With the exception of the acquisition of Asciano's 50 per cent interest in ACFS, 
which is considered separately, the ACCC's preliminary view is that the 
acquisition of Asciano's Patrick Bulk and Automotive Port Services (BAPS) 
business by Brookfield, GIC, bcIMC and QIA (the Brookfield parties) is unlikely 
to raise competition concerns.  
Future potential acquisitions 
18. 
Whilst the ACCC is aware of Qube’s proposal to acquire the remaining 50 per 
cent interest in Australian Amalgamated Terminals (AAT), and CPPIB's 
proposed acquisition of 40 per cent of Glencore Agriculture,1 the ACCC will 
separately review these transactions as they will occur at a later date and the 
                                                 
 
1  For further information see: 
http://www.glencore.com/assets/media/doc/news/2016/20160406-Sale-of-40-percent-stake-
in-Glencore-Agricultural-Products-and-creation-of-long-term-partnership-with-CPPIB.pdf.  


Proposed acquisition of Asciano by consortium comprising Brookfield, Qube & Others 
 
Page 4 of 26 
proposed acquisition under consideration is not conditional on their successful 
completion.  
 
Making a submission 
19. 
Interested parties should provide submissions by no later than 5pm on 10 June 
2016. Responses may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: 
“Submission re: Acquisition of Asciano by Qube, Brookfield & others - attention 
Nick Cooke/Rebecca Holland”. If you would like to discuss the matter with ACCC 
officers over the telephone or in person, or have any questions about this 
Statement of Issues, please contact Nick Cooke on (03) 9290 6987 or Rebecca 
Holland on (03) 9658 6467.  
20. 
The ACCC anticipates making a final decision on 21 July 2016, however, this 
timeline can change. To keep abreast of possible changes in relation to timing 
and to find relevant documents, interested parties should visit the Mergers 
Register on the ACCC's website at www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
Confidentiality of submissions 
21. 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We 
will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) 
unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation 
or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the Act. Where 
the ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, the ACCC will notify 
you in advance where possible so that you may have an opportunity to be heard. 
Therefore, if the information provided to the ACCC is of a confidential nature, 
please indicate as such. Our Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines 
contain more information on confidentiality. 
 
Timeline 
Date 
Event 
30 March 2016 
ACCC commenced review of the proposed 
acquisition 
26 May 2016 
ACCC publication of statement of issues 
10 June 2016 
Deadline for submissions from interested parties in 
response to the statement of issues 
21 July 2016 
Anticipated date for ACCC final decision  
 
The parties 
22. 
This section provides an overview of the parties to the proposed acquisition. 
Further detail on the parties is set out in Attachment A to the ACCC’s market 
inquiries letter. This market inquiries letter is available on the Mergers Register 
on the ACCC's website at www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister.  


Proposed acquisition of Asciano by consortium comprising Brookfield, Qube & Others 
 
Page 5 of 26 
The Consortium 
23. 
Qube is listed on the Australian Securities Exchange. It focuses on import and 
export logistics services throughout Australia, operating at a number of levels in 
the supply chain. Qube’s logistics business (Qube Logistics) supplies road and 
rail transport services, warehousing and distribution services, container park and 
related services and freight forwarding services. Qube Logistics also operates 
intermodal terminals2 and is developing the Moorebank Intermodal Terminal 
(Moorebank) which is scheduled to open in 2017 and will be the largest 
intermodal terminal in the Sydney metropolitan area.3 Qube does not currently 
have any container stevedoring interests. Qube operates the majority of trains 
carrying containers into Port Botany. Qube also owns 50 per cent of AAT, an 
automotive and general freight terminal operator at the Port of Brisbane, Port of 
Melbourne, Port of Adelaide and Port Kembla.  
24. 
Brookfield is a global asset manager with interests in property, renewable power 
and infrastructure assets. Brookfield's principal Australian businesses are the 
Dalrymple Bay Coal Terminal (DBCT) and Brookfield Rail. The DBCT business 
comprises a port facility that exports coal mined in the central Bowen Basin 
region of Queensland. Brookfield Rail is a below rail access provider which 
operates over 5,100 kilometres of track and related infrastructure in the 
southwest region of Western Australia. 
25. 
GIP is a global, independent infrastructure investor, which targets investments in 
infrastructure. GIP manages QSuper's 15 per cent equity interest in NSW Ports 
and, as part of these management rights, GIP appoints a board representative to 
NSW Ports on behalf of Q Super. GIP also has an interest in Terminal 
Investment Limited SA (TIL), which was established by Mediterranean Shipping 
Company, the world's second largest container shipping line. TIL is the world's 
sixth largest global container terminal operator but does not operate any 
terminals in Australia. 
26. 
CPPIB is a professional investment management organisation that invests funds 
not needed by the Canada Pension Plan to pay current benefits. CPPIB's 
Australian investments include toll roads and real estate investments, including 
interests in joint ventures with the Goodman Group that focus on industrial 
properties (including logistics and business park assets). 
27. 
bcIMC is one of Canada's largest institutional investors, investing on behalf of 
public sector clients in British Columbia. Its activities help finance workers’ 
retirement benefits. Among its investments, bcIMC has a 9 per cent interest in 
DBCT Management, the long term lease holder of the DBCT. 
28. 
QIA is a sovereign wealth fund based in Qatar. The purpose of QIA is to 
develop, invest and manage reserve funds and other assets assigned to it by the 
State of Qatar. QIA has a minority shareholding of less than 9 per cent in 
Glencore Plc.  
                                                 
 
2  For further detail see the Qube Logistics website: http://www.qube.com.au/logistics.  
3  For further detail see the Moorebank Intermodal Company Limited website: 
http://www.micl.com.au/.  


Proposed acquisition of Asciano by consortium comprising Brookfield, Qube & Others 
 
Page 6 of 26 
29. 
CIC Capital is a subsidiary of China Investment Corporation. The overseas 
investment and management activities of China Investment Corporation are 
undertaken by CIC International Co., Ltd. (CIC International) and CIC Capital. 
The ACCC has not identified any Australian assets held by CIC International or 
CIC Capital that are relevant to its competition assessment.  
30. 
GIC is incorporated in Singapore and invests for the Government of Singapore. 
The ACCC has not identified any Australian assets held by GIC that are relevant 
to its competition assessment.  
Asciano 
31. 
Asciano’s business has several elements:  
 
Pacific National  
 
Pacific National is one of the largest providers of above rail freight 
haulage services in Australia. It provides a range of services in 
the containerised, break bulk and bulk markets. It is a leading 
provider of inter-state containerised rail haulage and operates 
intermodal terminals. Pacific National also hauls a range of bulk 
goods for domestic and export consumption including coal and 
grain.  
 
Patrick Terminals and Logistics  
 
Patrick Terminals and Logistics is a major terminal operator in 
Australia and one of two container terminal operators providing 
container stevedoring services at each of the four largest 
container ports in Australia: Swanson Dock in Melbourne, Port 
Botany in Sydney, Fisherman Islands in Brisbane and Port of 
Fremantle in Western Australia. These stevedoring services and 
related container terminal operations constitute Patrick container 
terminals.  
 
Patrick Terminals and Logistics also operates a rail haulage 
business (Patrick Rail) and has a 50 per cent interest in ACFS 
which provides landside logistics services, including empty 
container park services and container transport services.  
ACFS is one of the two largest national landside container 
logistics operators focusing on import-export services such as 
road transport services, container park and related services and 
warehousing and distribution services. ACFS competes directly 
with Qube Logistics at each major container port. The remaining 
50 per cent interest in ACFS is held by TZI 1 Pty Ltd (formerly 
Australian Container Freight Services Pty Ltd) and related 
entities.  
 
Patrick BAPS 
 
BAPS specialises in the management of bulk ports and 
supporting infrastructure and the provision of port-related logistics 
at over 40 sites across Australia and New Zealand. BAPS 
includes the automotive and general stevedoring business. The 
BAPS division also includes Asciano’s 80 per cent interest in 
Patrick Autocare, which is a supplier of pre-delivery inspection 
motor vehicle services. In addition, BAPS operates an integrated 


Proposed acquisition of Asciano by consortium comprising Brookfield, Qube & Others 
 
Page 7 of 26 
service for the transportation, processing and storage of motor 
vehicles from the port to the beneficial freight owner. 
 
AAT 
 
Asciano owns 50 per cent of AAT, with Qube holding the 
remaining 50 per cent. As noted earlier, AAT is an automotive and 
general freight terminal operator at the Port of Brisbane, Port of 
Melbourne, Port of Adelaide and Port Kembla. 
 
Earlier Asciano acquisition proposals 
32. 
On 6 August 2015, the ACCC commenced a review into the proposed 
acquisition of Asciano by Brookfield, GIC, bcIMC and Nitro Corporation Pty 
Limited (the Brookfield Consortium). The ACCC published a statement of 
issues on 15 October 2015. 
33. 
On 13 November 2015, the ACCC commenced a review into the proposed 
acquisition of Asciano by Qube, GIP, CPPIB and CIC (the Qube Consortium).  
34. 
On 23 February 2016, the Consortium announced that it had been in discussions 
regarding a joint acquisition of Asciano and the ACCC suspended its reviews of 
the above two proposed acquisitions. The Consortium announced the new joint 
binding proposal to acquire Asciano (the proposed acquisition which is the 
subject of this Statement of Issues). Following this announcement the ACCC 
discontinued the earlier separate reviews. The acquisitions proposed by the 
Brookfield Consortium and the Qube Consortium were substantially different to 
the joint binding proposal and give rise to significantly different competition 
issues.   
35. 
The ACCC commenced a public review of the proposed acquisition on 30 March 
2016 after receiving a submission from the Consortium.  
 
Industry background  
36. 
Many parties play a role in the import/export container supply chain. These 
parties include importers/exporters, stevedores, shipping lines, road and rail 
container transport operators, intermodal terminal operators, port authorities, 
empty container park operators and governments. 
37. 
There are a number of typical contractual agreements between different tiers of 
the supply chain: 
 
Importers and exporters (or freight forwarders/shipping agents that act on 
their behalf) commonly have contracts with: 
 
shipping lines 
 
rail and/or road transport operators to transport containers to and 
from the port 
 
other logistics service providers for ancillary services such as 
distribution and warehousing services and container 
packing/unpacking.  


Proposed acquisition of Asciano by consortium comprising Brookfield, Qube & Others 
 
Page 8 of 26 
 
Shipping lines own the containers, and have contracts with: 
 
importers/exporters (or freight forwarders/shipping agents that act 
on their behalf) 
 
container stevedores 
 
empty container park operators. 
 
Road/rail transport operators have contracts with the importer or exporter 
(or freight forwarder), and in addition: 
 
pay fees to the stevedore, in order to access the container 
terminal, often through a vehicle booking system (VBS) 
 
pay fees to empty container park operators, in order to access 
empty container parks 
 
pay fees to intermodal terminal operators, in order to access 
intermodal terminals. 
 
if they are a rail provider, have rail access arrangements with 
stevedores and the owners of tracks leading to the port.  
 
Stevedores enter into leases with the relevant Port Authority. 
 
Empty container park operators enter into leases with the relevant Port 
Authority, if the parks are located within the port precinct.  
38. 
Below is a simplified diagram summarising the movement of containers along 
the supply chain and indicates where there are typically commercial relationships 
between container stevedores and other key parties. 
Diagram 1:  Commercial relationships between stevedores and other key parties in the 
container supply chain 
 
Source: ACCC Container stevedoring monitoring report no.17, 6 November 20154  
                                                 
 
4  https://www.accc.gov.au/regulated-infrastructure/waterfront-shipping/monitoring-reporting-
for-container-stevedoring. 


Proposed acquisition of Asciano by consortium comprising Brookfield, Qube & Others 
 
Page 9 of 26 
 
39. 
As set out above, the importer or exporter (or freight forwarder) chooses the 
shipping line and this shipping line chooses the stevedore/container terminal.  
40. 
Market participants have submitted to the ACCC that transport operators 
currently have limited, or no, influence over the container terminal where they 
collect/drop-off containers and in most cases they collect/drop-off containers at 
all terminals at each port. As all landside logistics providers generally have to 
access every container terminal and have to deal with the relevant stevedore, 
the ACCC considers that each stevedore is in a position to materially influence 
the operations of, and competition between, landside container logistics 
operators.  
41. 
Contracts between shipping lines and stevedores are generally between 3 and 5 
years and there is generally limited ability for shipping lines to change 
stevedores during the contract period. While some landside logistics operators 
can and do voice concern to shipping lines about access and landside efficiency 
at container terminals, given that the contract is between the shipping line and 
the stevedores, this may not effectively constrain the behaviour of the stevedore.  
 
The proposed transaction 
42. 
There are three components to the proposed acquisition: 
 
Rail acquisition: the Rail Consortium proposes to acquire the Pacific 
National rail business and certain intermodal terminal operations. The 
percentage ownership stakes in the business will be: 
 
CPPIB – 33 per cent 
 
GIP – 27 per cent 
 
CIC Capital – 16 per cent 
 
GIC – 12 per cent 
 
bcIMC – 12 per cent. 
 
BAPS acquisition: the Brookfield parties propose to acquire: 
 
Asciano's BAPS division 
 
Asciano's 50 per cent interest in ACFS  
 
Asciano's 50 per cent interest in AAT  
(collectively referred to as the BAPS businesses). 
The percentage ownership stakes in the business will be: 
 
Brookfield – 67 per cent 
 
GIC – 11 per cent 
 
bcIMC – 11 per cent 
 
QIA – 11 per cent. 


Proposed acquisition of Asciano by consortium comprising Brookfield, Qube & Others 
 
Page 10 of 26 
 
Ports acquisition: Qube and the Brookfield parties propose to acquire 
Asciano's Patrick container terminal business, excluding Asciano's 
50 per cent interest in ACFS and Asciano's 50 per cent interest in AAT. 
The percentage ownership stakes in the business will be: 
 
Qube – 50 per cent 
 
Brookfield – 33.5 per cent 
 
GIC – 5.5 per cent 
 
bcIMC – 5.5 per cent 
 
QIA – 5.5 per cent. 
The Brookfield parties will participate in the ports acquisition through a 
special purpose vehicle. This special purpose vehicle will hold the 
Brookfield parties’ collective 50 per cent interest in the Port Terminals 
businesses in accordance with the terms of a shareholders’ agreement 
between the Brookfield parties. 
43. 
Further detail on the proposed acquisition is set out in the ACCC’s market 
inquiries letter for this review (available on the ACCC’s Mergers Register). 
Attachment C to the market inquiries letter details the Asciano assets and 
operations to be acquired under each component of the proposed acquisition. 
Aerial photographs of the Asciano container and logistics assets at each port are 
at Attachment D to the market inquiries letter.  
44. 
Diagram 2 (below) summarises the transaction structure, including the 
relationships between each of the parties. 


Proposed acquisition of Asciano by consortium comprising Brookfield, Qube & Others 
 
Page 11 of 26 
Diagram 2: overview of proposed acquisition 
 
45. 
As illustrated in Diagram 2 above, a number of commercial relationships exist 
between the Consortium parties: 
 
The Brookfield parties will participate in the ports acquisition through a 
special purpose vehicle (as indicated by the purple dashed lines in the 
diagram above). 
 
CPPIB intends to acquire a 9.99 per cent shareholding in Qube (as 
indicated by the red dashed lines in the diagram above) 


Proposed acquisition of Asciano by consortium comprising Brookfield, Qube & Others 
 
Page 12 of 26 
 
GIC and bcIMC will each hold 12 per cent of Rail HoldCo, 5.5 per cent of 
Ports TopCo and 11 per cent of BAPS TopCo (as indicated by the blue 
dashed lines in the diagram above)  
 
Brookfield and QIA will each hold ownership interests in both Ports TopCo 
and BAPS TopCo. 
Vertical integration under the proposed acquisition 
46. 
Patrick container terminals is currently vertically integrated with ACFS, through 
Asciano’s 50 per cent interest in ACFS. Following the proposed acquisition, 
Patrick container terminals will be owned and operated through a joint venture 
that is 50 per cent owned by the Brookfield parties, who will also acquire 
Asciano’s interest in ACFS. 
47. 
Qube will acquire the remaining 50 per cent of Patrick container terminals, 
vertically integrating Patrick container terminals with Qube Logistics. Diagram 3 
highlights this additional vertical integration that arises from the proposed 
transaction.  
Diagram 3: extent of vertical integration before and after the proposed acquisition 
 
48. 
The proposed acquisition would therefore result in Patrick container terminals 
being vertically integrated with both of the largest landside container import-
export logistics providers in Australia and the only two with nation-wide 
operations. The ACCC considers this to be a significantly larger degree of 
vertical integration than under the status quo where Patrick container terminals is 
only vertically integrated with ACFS.  
49. 
As noted above, it is intended that Asciano’s current 50 per cent interest in 
ACFS is to be transferred to the Brookfield parties. The ACCC is aware that 


Proposed acquisition of Asciano by consortium comprising Brookfield, Qube & Others 
 
Page 13 of 26 
there is some uncertainty regarding the transfer of ownership of Asciano’s 50 per 
cent interest in ACFS to the Brookfield parties.5 In the event that Asciano’s 
interest were not transferred to the Brookfield parties (and instead a structure 
arose whereby ACFS was not vertically linked to Patrick container terminals) 
then Patrick container terminals would only be vertically linked with Qube’s 
landside container logistics.  
 
Future with and without the acquisition  
50. 
Section 50 of the Act prohibits mergers or acquisitions that would have the effect 
or be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
In assessing a proposed acquisition pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC 
considers the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future competitive 
environment post-acquisition if the acquisition proceeds (the "with" position) to 
the likely future competitive environment if the acquisition does not proceed (the 
"without" position) to determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in any relevant market. 
51. 
On the basis of the information currently available, the ACCC considers that the 
status quo would apply if the transaction does not proceed (the “without” 
position).  
 
Issue that may raise concerns: reduced competition for rail 
container transport from regional NSW to Port Botany 
52. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition may substantially lessen 
competition in the provision of regional container rail services to Port Botany by 
giving Patrick container terminals the ability and incentive to discriminate in 
favour of Qube trains. This discrimination may take place by restricting rivals’ 
access to the Patrick container terminal rail siding at Port Botany or by raising 
rival rail operators’ costs.  
53. 
Should Patrick container terminals engage in such conduct, the discrimination 
may raise barriers to entry/expansion for competing rail providers which may 
lead to an increase in prices or reduction in service quality for rail container 
transportation between regional NSW and Port Botany. 
                                                 
 
5  Asciano’s Scheme Booklet states that: 
Asciano must use best endeavours to procure that the shares in ACFS Port Logistics 
are transferred to the BAPS Business prior to completion of the Sale Agreements, but 
may consult with other parties to the Sale Agreements regarding other transfer options. 
Subject to the transfer option ultimately pursued, it is possible that the other 
shareholders in ACFS Port Logistics may have pre-emptive rights to acquire the 
interest in ACFS Port Logistics. 
For further detail see the Asciano Scheme Booklet: 
https://asciano.com.au/system/ckeditor_assets/attachments/426/asciano_scheme_booklet_r
egistered_with_asic_210416.pdf.  


Proposed acquisition of Asciano by consortium comprising Brookfield, Qube & Others 
 
Page 14 of 26 
54. 
Exports from regional NSW make up a relatively small proportion of overall 
container exports at Port Botany. However, this proportion is still significant and 
the ACCC has concerns regarding rail competition for these regional exporters. 
Whether road transportation is a constraint 
55. 
Market inquiries indicate that for a substantial proportion of containerised freight 
exports from regional NSW, road transport is not a substitute for rail container 
transport, due to: 
 
the cost of transport by road being significantly more expensive than by rail  
 
weight restrictions on containers being carried by road. 
56. 
The ACCC's preliminary view is that for these regional export customers, road 
transport is not a constraint on rail transport. 
Ability and incentive to discriminate against Qube’s rail rivals 
57. 
The ACCC understands that regional trains carrying export containers to Port 
Botany must be able to access the Patrick container terminal and other container 
terminals at the port. This is because trains will be carrying containers that need 
to be delivered to a mixture of stevedores, and it would not generally be possible 
to operate a train with containers that will only be exported through non-Patrick 
container terminals. This gives Patrick container terminals market power that it 
can use to influence competition in the regional rail container export market. 
58. 
Market participants identified a number of strategies that Patrick container 
terminals could engage in post-acquisition to discriminate against Qube’s rivals, 
including: 
 
specifying a minimum number of lifts per rail window for ad hoc rail 
windows that only Qube is able to meet, reducing the ability of rivals to 
access ad hoc windows 
 
slower servicing of Qube's rivals’ trains at the Patrick container terminal rail 
siding, making their operations inefficient or less competitive than Qube's 
 
giving Qube’s rail operations first choice of additional rail windows or 
redistributing existing rail windows so that rival rail operators no longer 
have rail windows that line up with windows at other container terminals 
(thereby increasing rail rivals’ costs)  
 
requiring rival rail providers to utilise other Qube facilities, such as 
Moorebank, in order to obtain appropriate access at the Patrick container 
terminal 
 
increasing the costs of rail windows and other fees associated with 
handling trains, and thereby implementing a price squeeze.  
59. 
Market participants also considered that the ability to discriminate can manifest 
in many other ways. The ACCC recognises that vertical integration can lead to 
many forms of subtle discrimination that are difficult to detect. 


Proposed acquisition of Asciano by consortium comprising Brookfield, Qube & Others 
 
Page 15 of 26 
60. 
Under the proposed acquisition, Qube will only have a 50 per cent interest in 
Patrick container terminals. However this may not be sufficient to prevent 
discriminatory behaviour in favour of Qube's regional rail services as: 
 
Qube's executives have extensive experience with the Patrick container 
terminals assets and are likely to exert a significant level of control and 
influence. Further, the initial CEO of the Patrick container terminals 
business post acquisition will be appointed by Qube 
 
discriminatory conduct may be framed as efficiency enhancing for Patrick 
container terminals and therefore the Brookfield parties will not necessarily 
object. For example, market participants submit that limiting access to the 
Port Botany rail siding to Qube trains could be presented as a method of 
better coordinating rail windows and train schedules. 
61. 
A degree of vertical integration already exists in the current market structure, 
where Patrick container terminals is vertically aligned with Asciano’s rail haulage 
businesses (Pacific National and Patrick Rail). The ACCC notes that this vertical 
integration has not prevented the entry and expansion of non-vertically 
integrated rail operators such as Qube. 
62. 
However, post-acquisition Patrick container terminals may have an incentive to 
discriminate in favour of Qube as Qube is the largest provider of rail services into 
Port Botany. In terms of regional rail services to Port Botany, the ACCC 
estimates Qube’s market share to be between 35 and 45 per cent, compared to 
Asciano’s estimated market share of less than 30 percent. Qube also provides 
the vast majority of metropolitan rail services to and from Port Botany. Taken 
together, Qube has a high demand for rail windows at Port Botany and the 
ACCC understands that Qube currently already uses the majority of rail windows 
at the Port Botany Patrick container terminal. As such, the ACCC considers that 
Asciano’s current ability and incentive to favour its Pacific National/Patrick Rail 
trains is not as strong as the post-acquisition ability and incentive to discriminate 
to favour Qube’s trains. 
63. 
Patrick container terminals’ ability and incentive to discriminate in favour of 
Qube’s rail operations would be heightened by Qube’s role in operating the 
Moorebank Intermodal Terminal.   
64. 
Moorebank is scheduled to commence operations in 2017 and as Qube will be 
operating metropolitan rail services from Moorebank to Port Botany, it is likely to 
increase Qube’s demand for rail windows. Market participants consider that 
Moorebank will have a throughput capacity approximately three times greater 
than the intermodal terminal with the next highest capacity. Given Moorebank’s 
size, market participants consider that there will be significant increased demand 
for rail port services and therefore increased demand for rail siding access at 
Port Botany. Market participants consider that this will increase Patrick container 
terminals’ opportunity to limit access to rail windows for Qube’s competitors.  
65. 
If access to rail windows at Port Botany were restricted, it may force competing 
regional rail operators to deliver containers to Moorebank so that the containers 
can be delivered to Port Botany via a Qube port shuttle service. Market 
participants consider that over time this will reduce competition for the rail 
transportation of containers from regional NSW as: 


Proposed acquisition of Asciano by consortium comprising Brookfield, Qube & Others 
 
Page 16 of 26 
 
using an intermodal terminal may increase the price that rival rail operators 
can offer customers 
 
re-routing containers through Moorebank would give Qube greater control 
and influence over the import-export container supply chain and restrict the 
options for competitors. 
66. 
The ACCC understands that there may be scope for the NSW government, 
though Transport NSW, to regulate the Port Botany rail sidings, in a fashion 
similar to how the Port Botany Landside Improvement Scheme (PBLIS) 
oversees road access. While the ACCC considers that such oversight and 
regulation may have the potential to limit competition concerns relating to rail 
access, the ACCC considers that the mere potential for regulation may not be 
sufficient to constrain Patrick container terminals from discrimination in favour of 
Qube’s rail operations. 
ACCC’s preliminary views 
67. 
The ACCC's preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition may substantially 
lessen competition in the provision of regional container rail services to Port 
Botany by giving Patrick container terminals the ability and incentive to 
discriminate in favour of Qube trains.  
68. 
Rival rail operators may not be able to compete effectively, and the presence of 
a vertically integrated entity and the likelihood of discrimination may create a 
strong deterrent effect on potential rail entrants. This may lead to an increase in 
barriers to entry and expansion. 
69. 
The ACCC is concerned that the lessening of competition may lead to increased 
prices (or a decrease in quality of services) for regional NSW exporters that rely 
on rail to export their containers.  
 
 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the concerns in relation to 
rail competition for regional container exports in NSW. Market participants are asked 
to address the following questions, and in each instance provide specific practical 
examples to support any response or concerns identified: 
 
Are there exporters in regional NSW for which road transport is not 
substitutable for rail container transport? Please provide practical examples of 
the extra costs incurred in transporting containers from regional NSW to Port 
Botany by road. To what extent is it economically feasible to move freight from 
regional NSW in bulk trucks and repack it into containers near Port Botany? 
 
To what extent do you consider that Qube only having a 50 per cent interest in 
Patrick container terminals will prevent it from engaging in discriminatory 
conduct in favour of Qube's rail services? In particular, if such discriminatory 
conduct would be likely to have a detrimental impact on the profitability of 
Patrick container terminals stevedoring, why would the Brookfield parties 
(owners of the other 50 per cent of Patrick container terminals) let it occur? 


Proposed acquisition of Asciano by consortium comprising Brookfield, Qube & Others 
 
Page 17 of 26 
 
 
Issue that may raise concerns: reduced competition in 
landside logistics  
70. 
As noted above, the proposed acquisition results in the vertical integration of 
Patrick container terminals with Australia's two largest import-export landside 
container logistics operators, Qube and ACFS.6  
71. 
Based upon its inquiries to date, the ACCC is concerned that the proposed 
acquisition may substantially lessen competition in landside container logistics 
by giving Patrick container terminals the ability and incentive to discriminate in 
favour of Qube and ACFS. Qube and Brookfield, through control of Patrick 
container terminals, could provide preferential access to Qube and ACFS at the 
terminals and increase their rivals’ costs. This may lessen the ability of rivals to 
compete effectively, raise barriers to entry and expansion, and lead to an 
increase in prices for container landside logistics.  
72. 
Market participants have expressed concern about discrimination at each 
relevant port in Australia (Botany, Melbourne, Brisbane and Fremantle), but 
noted that at Port Botany, the level of control a stevedore is able to exert is 
limited to some extent by the PBLIS.  
                                                 
 
6  Assuming Asciano’s 50 per cent interest in ACFS is transferred to the Brookfield parties. 
 
To what extent is the possibility of regulation by Transport NSW likely to 
constrain the behaviour of Patrick container terminals? In particular, would it 
constrain the manner in which rail siding windows are allocated by the Patrick 
container terminal and prevent or limit competition concerns? 
 
What is the likely impact of Moorebank on the ability and incentive for Qube to 
engage in the behaviour outlined by the ACCC? In providing a response, 
identify where and how discrimination between different rail providers could 
occur and how this would likely impact on competition. 
 
Has Asciano discriminated against its rail rivals in its operation of Patrick 
container terminals? Why would the ability and incentive to discriminate be 
different post-acquisition?  
 
How did Qube’s regional rail operations in NSW grow so significantly when it 
wasn’t vertically integrated with a container stevedore? 
 
What is the impact of policy and infrastructure changes which are encouraging 
more containers to be delivered to Port Botany on rail on your assessment of 
the issues identified by the ACCC? For example, the NSW Freight and Ports 
Strategy aims to improve the productivity of the rail freight network.1  
 
Please provide specific examples of how, post-acquisition, Patrick container 
terminals could engage in discriminatory conduct that would benefit Qube's 
regional container rail services. 


Proposed acquisition of Asciano by consortium comprising Brookfield, Qube & Others 
 
Page 18 of 26 
Ability and incentive to discriminate against rivals of Qube and ACFS 
73. 
As noted above, landside container logistics operators generally have limited or 
no influence over which container terminal they need to access to pick-up or 
drop-off containers. Qube and ACFS’s rivals are not able to choose not to deal 
with Patrick container terminals. Therefore, although Patrick container terminals 
competes with other stevedores, it is in a position to influence the operations of, 
and competition between, landside container logistics operators. 
74. 
Market participants identified a number of strategies that Patrick container 
terminals could engage in post-acquisition to discriminate against Qube and 
ACFS’s rivals, including: 
 
offering preferential access to Qube and ACFS trucks ahead of rivals, 
leading to delays, inefficiencies and increased costs for rivals. For 
example, Qube and ACFS could obtain extra slots at peak times or the 
most convenient bulk/stack runs7 
 
giving Qube and ACFS priority access to the 1-Stop vehicle booking 
system, reducing the ability of rivals to access the Patrick container 
terminals at convenient times 
 
facilitating combined export drop-off and import pick-up runs (i.e. the truck 
arrives and leaves with containers) more easily for Qube and ACFS  
 
charging transport operators carrying empty containers stored at Qube and 
ACFS empty container parks lower prices, or giving them better services 
 
increasing the costs of booking slots/windows, and other fees, for all 
landside logistics companies, and thereby implementing a vertical price 
squeeze. 
75. 
It is clear to the ACCC from market inquiries that there is an ability to 
discriminate against rivals (although the ability appears less clear at Port 
Botany). The issue then is whether there is an incentive to discriminate and 
whether such discrimination is likely to substantially lessen competition.  
76. 
It has been put to the ACCC that there is no incentive to discriminate against 
rivals, as any such strategy would lower the efficiency of the container 
stevedoring operations, which would in turn impact on profitability of the 
stevedoring operations and the likelihood of shipping lines using the terminal. 
The stevedoring operations have high fixed costs and the ACCC considers that 
there is likely to be a strong incentive to maximise throughput. 
77. 
On the other hand, many market participants have suggested that discrimination 
will make rival logistics providers less efficient, preventing them from competing 
effectively with Qube and ACFS, and thereby making such a strategy profitable 
for Qube and Brookfield as they will achieve higher returns on landside logistics. 
Market inquiries have indicated that the landside efficiency and equal treatment 
                                                 
 
7  A bulk or stack run allows a road carrier to transport a number of empty container terminals 
to and/or from the port without making bookings through the VBS.  


Proposed acquisition of Asciano by consortium comprising Brookfield, Qube & Others 
 
Page 19 of 26 
of logistics providers is, at least currently, only a secondary factor in the shipping 
lines’ choice of stevedore behind pricing, berthing window availability and port-
side (as opposed to landside) efficiency. Therefore, if discrimination was to 
occur, it may not discourage shipping lines from continuing to use Patrick 
container terminals.  
Difference between Asciano’s current vertical integration and the situation post-
acquisition 
78. 
Market participants have stated that there is a significant difference in the level of 
vertical integration that exists currently and the level of vertical integration post-
acquisition.  
79. 
Patrick container terminals is currently vertically aligned with ACFS, in which it 
holds a 50 per cent stake. However, industry participants consider that the 
situation post-acquisition gives rise to vertical integration on a much larger scale. 
It is intended that the Brookfield parties, who will have 50 per cent stake in 
Patrick container terminals, will also own a 50 per cent stake in ACFS. Qube, 
with a significant import/export logistics business, will own the other 50 per cent 
of Patrick container terminals.  
80. 
Together, Qube and ACFS have a significant share of landside import-export 
container logistics services in Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle and Brisbane. In 
particular, Qube and ACFS are two of the largest suppliers of container transport 
services and empty container park services and wharf cartage services.  
81. 
The ACCC considers that Qube and the Brookfield parties will have a parallel 
incentive to operate Patrick container terminals in a way that favours their 
respective downstream logistics businesses. The large scale of ACFS’s and 
Qube’s combined landside logistics interests could increase the incentive to 
discriminate against rival landside competitors. Further, the impact of such 
discrimination is likely to be greater given Qube and ACFS are already 
significant players.  
82. 
In the event that Patrick container terminals was vertically linked with only one of 
these landside container logistics providers, the ACCC considers that the degree 
of vertical integration following the transaction would be comparable to the 
current extent of vertical integration and that competition concerns would be less 
likely to arise. 
If Brookfield does not control 50 per cent of ACFS 
83. 
As was noted earlier, there is uncertainty regarding whether the Brookfield 
parties will acquire Asciano’s 50 per cent stake in ACFS. If the Brookfield parties 
do not acquire the interest in ACFS, then a separate potential competition issue 
arises.  
84. 
Market inquiries suggest Qube and ACFS are currently strong competitors in 
many aspects of the import-export supply chain. After the transaction, Qube will 
own 50 per cent of Patrick container terminals. A number of ACFS’s key sites 
are subleased to it by Patrick container terminals (which holds the head leases 
for those sites). 
85. 
Feedback to the ACCC suggests that Qube will have the ability and incentive to 
restrict ACFS from fully exercising its rights under existing subleases, reducing 


Proposed acquisition of Asciano by consortium comprising Brookfield, Qube & Others 
 
Page 20 of 26 
the competitive constraint provided by ACFS. In particular, market participants 
are concerned that as a 50 per cent owner of the landlord to ACFS, Qube would:  
 
limit ACFS's ability to operate effectively throughout the term of existing 
subleases (i.e. limiting their ability to invest in sites) 
 
restrict ACFS from renewing subleases. 
86. 
The ACCC is continuing to consider issues regarding the future viability of ACFS 
as a competitive constraint on Qube if it is not vertically integrated with Patrick 
container ports.  
ACCC preliminary views  
87. 
The ACCC's preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition may substantially 
lessen competition in the provision of landside logistics because it will result in 
Patrick container terminals having an increased incentive to discriminate against 
Qube's and ACFS's rival landside logistics service providers. Such discrimination 
could lead to a substantial lessening of competition in markets for the provision 
of landside container logistics services at the Ports of Botany, Brisbane, 
Fremantle and Melbourne. 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the issues identified 
above. Market participants are asked to address the following questions, and in 
each instance provide specific practical examples to support any response or 
concerns identified: 
 
Does a vertically integrated stevedore have an incentive to discriminate 
against rival landside logistics operators? If so: 
 Has such discrimination been seen in the past? 
 If it hasn’t occurred in the past, why not? 
 Why might the situation after this proposed acquisition be different? 
 
To what extent would Qube and Brookfield's incentive to maximise container 
throughput at Patrick container terminals be greater than its incentive to 
discriminate against rival logistics service providers? 
 
If vertical integration between stevedoring and landside logistics is strategically 
advantageous because it may be used to foreclose rivals:   
 why did Asciano put its landside logistics business into a joint venture with 
ACFS?  
 why did DP World Australia (DP World) sell its landside logistics 
operations? 


Proposed acquisition of Asciano by consortium comprising Brookfield, Qube & Others 
 
Page 21 of 26 
 
 
 
Issue that may raise concerns: reduced competition in 
stevedoring  
88. 
As has been discussed, the proposed acquisition will result in vertical integration 
of Patrick container terminals with both Qube Logistics and ACFS, currently the 
two largest national landside import-export container logistics operators in 
Australia. 
89. 
Based on its inquiries to date, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the alignment 
of Patrick container terminals with both Qube and ACFS may substantially 
lessen competition in the market for the supply of container stevedore services, 
as Patrick may be able to use Qube and ACFS to favour Patrick container 
terminals over other stevedores.  
90. 
The ACCC is also concerned that the proposed acquisition may result in Patrick 
container terminals being able to bundle empty container park services with 
stevedoring services in such a manner and on such a scale that alternative 
stevedores such as DP World and Hutchison Ports Australia (Hutchison) would 
not be able to compete as effectively as they do now.  
Foreclosing rival stevedores 
91. 
The foreclosure of rival stevedores may occur by: 
 
Patrick container terminals offering preferential treatment to ACFS and the 
landside logistics operations of Qube (as outlined in the section above), 
which would give ACFS and Qube combined a degree of market power in 
landside logistics, as competitors cannot match their offering  
 
Is it likely or practical for a shipping line to switch stevedores based on 
discriminatory conduct by a terminal operator against landside logistics service 
providers? Please comment on the costs and timeframe required for shipping 
lines to switch stevedores, and any examples of shipping lines switching 
stevedores in response to complaints from landside logistics service operators 
about access to container terminals and/or other container terminal service 
issues.  
 
To what extent would Brookfield's incentives via its interest in ACFS be aligned 
with (or contrary to) Qube's?  
 
To what extent would Patrick container terminals under the ownership of Qube 
and the Brookfield parties have a different incentive to discriminate against 
rival landside logistics providers, compared to under Asciano ownership given 
that Asciano is already vertically integrated with ACFS? 
 
To what extent do you consider that ACFS would be a viable competitor to 
Qube post-acquisition if it remains independent from Brookfield? Specifically, 
would any restrictions on, or failure to renew, the land subleased by ACFS 
from Patrick container terminals, materially lessen ACFS's ability to compete 
as effectively with Qube in the future, particularly at Port Melbourne and Port 
Botany. 


Proposed acquisition of Asciano by consortium comprising Brookfield, Qube & Others 
 
Page 22 of 26 
 
which may in turn facilitate Qube and ACFS offering superior services to 
importers and exporters on the condition that they use shipping lines 
calling at Patrick container terminals  
 
which will shift volumes to shipping lines using Patrick container terminals 
and encourage shipping lines to use Patrick container terminals, as they 
will achieve greater volumes  
 
which will lessen competition and raise barriers to entry or expansion for 
competing container stevedores. 
92. 
The superior services that Qube and ACFS may be able to offer could include, 
for example, a higher level of service for rail services for exports from regional 
NSW or timing of truck slots at the terminal which other logistics providers who 
are not aligned with Patrick would not be able to match. Patrick container 
terminals could also restrict the ability of Qube and ACFS’s competitors to use 
bulk runs. 
93. 
These strategies could be implemented such that major import and export 
customers may shift their volumes to shipping lines that use Patrick container 
terminals or influence shipping lines transporting their containers to use Patrick 
container terminals over competing terminals. Over time, shipping lines may be 
influenced to switch their stevedore to Patrick container terminals rather than 
basing their choice of stevedore on the competitiveness of Patrick container 
terminals’ offering relative to the rival stevedores, DP World and Hutchison. 
94. 
Against this argument, it was noted earlier that market inquiries have indicated 
that the landside efficiency of logistics providers is considered only a secondary 
factor in the shipping lines’ choice of stevedore behind pricing, berthing window 
availability and port-side (as opposed to landside) efficiency. Therefore, it may 
not be possible for Brookfield and Qube to use their landside logistics operations 
to influence shipping lines.  
Bundling with empty container parks 
95. 
Post-acquisition, Patrick container terminals will be aligned with Qube and 
ACFS's empty container parks. Qube and ACFS are both significant providers of 
empty container parks.  
96. 
In particular, the ACCC has focused on the vertical integration that will arise at 
Port of Fremantle. Qube Logistics controls a significant majority of the on-port 
and off-port empty container parks. A competing empty container park at the 
Port of Fremantle is expected to open this year, however this container park will 
be operated by ACFS which will also be vertically integrated with the Patrick 
container terminal. In addition, Patrick container terminals also has a much 
larger market share of container stevedoring services than DP World, its sole 
competitor at the Port of Fremantle.  
97. 
As the majority of containers are exported from Australia empty, access to empty 
container parks is essential for shipping lines.  
98. 
Market participants are therefore concerned that combining Patrick container 
terminals with Qube's substantial empty container park facilities, and ACFS’s 


Proposed acquisition of Asciano by consortium comprising Brookfield, Qube & Others 
 
Page 23 of 26 
expected new empty container park facilities, may allow Qube and the Brookfield 
parties to: 
 
charge higher prices or offer lower quality service for shipping lines not 
using Qube’s and ACFS's empty container parks at Fremantle  
 
provide a bundle of stevedoring and empty container park services at 
Fremantle  
 
refuse shipping lines' access to Qube's and ACFS’s empty container parks 
if they are not using Patrick container terminals 
 
offer a national bundle of stevedoring services and empty container park 
services, that shipping lines have little choice but to accept, as there are 
limited alternatives in Fremantle.  
99. 
The ACCC is concerned that a bundling strategy may decrease the ability of rival 
container stevedores to compete effectively with Patrick container terminals, 
leading to higher prices or lower quality of container stevedoring services. 
100. Fremantle Ports currently oversees the non-discriminatory provision of services 
at on-port facilities, including container terminals and empty container parks. 
Such oversight may constrain discriminatory behaviour. The proposed 
privatisation of the Port of Fremantle may impact these regulatory restraints.  
ACCC’s preliminary views 
101. In summary, the ACCC is concerned that the vertical integration between Patrick 
container terminals with ACFS and Qube’s landside logistics operations, may 
result in a substantial lessening of competition in the market for container 
stevedoring services at each relevant port (but in particular the Port of 
Fremantle).  
102. In the event that Patrick container terminals was vertically linked with only one of 
the landside container logistics providers, the ACCC considers that the degree of 
vertical integration following the transaction would be more comparable to the 
current extent of vertical integration and that competition concerns in stevedoring 
would be less likely to arise. 
 
 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the issues identified 
above. Market participants are asked to address the following questions, and in 
each instance provide specific practical examples to support any response or 
concerns identified: 
 
What will be the response of rival stevedores to the possible 
foreclosure/bundling strategies identified by the ACCC?  
 
Does Qube or ACFS have market power in any element of landside logistics? In 
providing a response, comment on whether vertically integrating both Qube and 
ACFS with Patrick container terminals would be likely to provide Qube and 
ACFS with increased market power in any element of landside logistics 
services. 


Proposed acquisition of Asciano by consortium comprising Brookfield, Qube & Others 
 
Page 24 of 26 
 
 
Issues unlikely to raise concerns 
Acquisition of Pacific National 
103. The ACCC's preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition of Pacific National 
by GIP, CPPIB, CIC Capital, GIC or bcIMC (the Rail Consortium) is unlikely to 
result in a substantial lessening of competition in any relevant market.  
104. The ACCC considered whether the proposed acquisition of Pacific National by 
the Rail Consortium, had the potential to raise competition issues by: 
 
combining Asciano's Pacific National business with any relevant GIP, 
CPPIB, CIC Capital, GIC and bcIMC investment or operations 
 
the common financial interests between the Consortium parties created by 
the transaction structure 
 
facilitating the transfer of commercially sensitive information between 
competitors.  
105. Some industry participants raised concerns in relation to bcIMC acquiring a 
12 per cent interest in Pacific National as bcIMC currently has a 9 per cent 
interest in DBCT Management (the long term lease holder of the Dalrymple Bay 
Coal Terminal). The ACCC's preliminary view is that these minority 
shareholdings are unlikely to provide bcIMC with the ability to control or 
materially influence the operation of DBCT Management and that preferential 
treatment of Pacific National trains and customers at the DBCT is unlikely.  
106. The ACCC also considers that these shareholdings held by bcIMC are unlikely to 
result in the sharing of commercially sensitive information that would be likely to 
substantially lessen competition in any relevant market. 
107. The ACCC has considered the various interests of all of the Rail Consortium 
parties and does not consider that there are any other competitive overlaps or 
 
If an exporter or importer obtains a favourable logistics offer, but only if their 
containers pass through a certain stevedore, what is their ability to influence the 
shipping lines' choice of stevedore so as to obtain that offer?  
 
Explain the barriers to a shipping line shifting volumes between container 
terminals at the request of a customer? 
 
What are the barriers to entry or expansion in empty container parks on or near 
the relevant ports? In Fremantle are there any specific barriers to entry or 
expansion for empty container parks? 
 
Could a new entrant into empty container parks, or expanded existing player, 
competitively constrain Qube and ACFS in the provision of empty container 
parks? 
 
To what extent do off-port empty container parks constrain empty container 
parks located at or very close to the port? 


Proposed acquisition of Asciano by consortium comprising Brookfield, Qube & Others 
 
Page 25 of 26 
relationships with Pacific National that are likely to give rise to potential 
competition concerns in any relevant markets. 
Acquisition of BAPS 
108. With the exception of the acquisition of Asciano's 50 per cent interest in ACFS, 
which is considered above, the ACCC's preliminary view is that the acquisition of 
Asciano's BAPS businesses by the Brookfield parties is unlikely to raise 
competition concerns. 
109. Based on the information available to the ACCC, this acquisition does not result 
in any horizontal aggregation or vertical integration which would have the 
potential to lead to competition concerns in any relevant markets. Industry 
participants have not raised significant concerns about this aspect of the 
proposed acquisition. 
Other cross shareholdings 
110. The ACCC notes that the proposed acquisition would result in a number of cross 
shareholdings: 
 
GIC and bcIMC would each have 12 per cent interests in Pacific National, 
11 per cent interests in BAPS and 5.5 per cent interests in the Port 
Terminals business 
 
CPPIB would have a 33 per cent interest in Pacific National and a 9.99 per 
cent interest in Qube 
 
QIA and Brookfield would both have interests in BAPS and the Port 
Terminals Business. 
111. A number of industry participants have raised concerns about the cross 
shareholdings on the basis that they would lead to close-knit relationships 
between the Consortium parties which would lead to co-ordinated conduct and 
lessen competition between Pacific National and Qube or create vertical links 
between Brookfield's WA below rail network and Pacific National. For example, 
industry participants are concerned that given CPPIB’s interest in Qube, it would 
be likely to influence the operation of Pacific National so that it did not seek to 
win customers from Qube.  
112. The ACCC has closely considered the concerns raised to date by industry 
participants on these issues and has carefully considered the transaction 
documents and shareholder agreements provided to it by the Consortium parties 
in the context of these concerns. The ACCC does not consider that it is likely 
that any of the cross-shareholdings set out in paragraph 110 above will give any 
member of the Consortium the ability to favour another member.  
113. The ACCC acknowledges the concerns of interested parties. However, following 
consideration of these concerns, along with consideration of the transaction 
documents and shareholder agreements, the ACCC's preliminary view is that 
none of these cross shareholdings are likely to lead to a substantial lessening of 
competition in any relevant market. The ACCC notes that Asciano currently 
owns 100 per cent of Pacific National, the BAPS businesses and the Patrick port 
terminals business and as such the cross ownerships listed in paragraph 110 


Proposed acquisition of Asciano by consortium comprising Brookfield, Qube & Others 
 
Page 26 of 26 
above are materially less than the integration that would exist absent the 
acquisition. 
114. The ACCC further considers that CPPIB's proposed 9.99 per cent of Qube and 
33 per cent interest in Pacific National: 
 
would not change Qube’s incentives to compete with Pacific National in 
any relevant markets 
 
is unlikely to provide CPPIB with sufficient incentive to seek to influence 
the operations of Pacific National to favour Qube or refrain from competing 
with Qube (even if it was able to do so); and 
 
is not likely to result in the flow of commercially sensitive information that 
would be likely to lead to a substantial lessening of competition in any 
relevant market.  
115. On this basis the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the various cross 
shareholdings listed above are unlikely to substantially lessen competition in any 
relevant market. The ACCC will closely consider any further related acquisitions 
by any of the Consortium parties including any changes in these minority 
shareholdings as and when they arise in the future. 
 
 
ACCC's next steps 
116. As noted above, the ACCC seeks submissions from market participants on each 
of the issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that 
may be relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. Submissions are to be 
received by the ACCC no later than 10 June 2016 and should be emailed to 
mergers@accc.gov.au. 
117. The ACCC will then finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions. 
118. The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 21 July 2016. However 
the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Merger Review Process 
Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment that will explain the ACCC's final 
view will be published following the ACCC's public announcement. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants in relation to the cross-
shareholdings between the parties, the acquisition of Pacific National and the 
acquisition of Patrick BAPS. 
