ACCC WILL NOT OPPOSE ACQUISITION OF ASCIANO BY QUBE, 
BROOKFIELD AND OTHERS 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission will not oppose the proposed 
acquisition of Asciano Limited (ASX: AIO) (Asciano) by a consortium comprising Qube 
Holdings Ltd (ASX: QUB) (Qube), Brookfield Infrastructure Partners LP (Brookfield) and a 
group of global investment funds.  
The ACCC’s investigation focused on the import-export supply chain for containerised freight 
through the ports of Botany, Brisbane, Fremantle and Melbourne. Specifically, it closely 
considered the vertical integration of Asciano’s Patrick container terminals with Qube’s road 
and rail container transport services and empty container parks. 
“The ACCC conducted extensive inquiries with a large number of industry participants. A 
broad range of issues were raised across different aspects of the supply chain. After careful 
consideration, the ACCC has concluded there is not likely to be a substantial lessening of 
competition in any market,” ACCC Chairman Rod Sims said today. 
The ACCC expressed some competition concerns in a Statement of Issues it released in 
May, but the parties have since restructured the proposed acquisition so that ACFS will no 
longer be vertically aligned with Patrick.   
“This restructure resolved a number of the ACCC’s concerns,” Mr Sims said.  
“It means that the effect of the proposed acquisition is a substitution of Qube for ACFS as 
the downstream container logistics provider linked to Patrick.”  
The ACCC also closely considered whether the vertical integration of the Patrick container 
terminal at Port Botany with Qube’s NSW rail operations would result in discrimination 
against Qube’s competitors. A key issue was whether this would reduce competition in the 
market for rail-based container transport services from regional NSW to Port Botany, with 
particular regard to Qube’s interest in the Moorebank intermodal terminal.    
The ACCC conducted in-depth inquiries with a broad range of Port Botany stakeholders and 
identified several constraints on the ability and incentive of Patrick to discriminate in favour 
of Qube trains at Port Botany.  
These constraints include the potential loss of business to rival stevedores, Brookfield and 
others having a 50 per cent interest in Patrick, and the regulation of rail services. The ACCC 
also considered the role of NSW Ports as the lessor of the Patrick Container Terminal site, 
particularly given it is also the landlord of intermodal terminals at Enfield and Cooks River. 
The ACCC considered NSW Ports has an incentive to limit any discrimination by Patrick 
Container Terminals in favour of Qube’s interests.  
“The combined strength of these constraints has led us to conclude that the acquisition 
would not cause an increase in prices or a reduction in the quality of regional rail container 
export services to Port Botany,” Mr Sims said. 


More information on the ACCC’s analysis of the relevant markets and associated 
competition issues that led to its decision is provided in the Public Competition Assessment, 
which is being published today on the public register.  
Background 
A consortium comprising Brookfield, Qube, Global Infrastructure Management, LLC (on 
behalf of itself and its managed funds and clients), Canada Pension Plan Investment Board, 
CIC Capital Corporation, British Columbia Investment Management Corporation, GIC Private 
Limited and Qatar Investment Authority (the joint consortium) is seeking to acquire the 
shares and assets of Asciano.  
The ACCC had earlier considered two separate proposals, one by a consortium led by Qube 
(Qube-led consortium) and another by a consortium led by Brookfield (Brookfield-led 
consortium). The ACCC’s consideration of those two earlier proposals ceased when the 
new joint proposal to acquire Asciano was announced. 
Timeline 
August 2015  
 
 
ACCC commences review of the Brookfield-led consortium’s 
proposed acquisition of Asciano. 
October 2015 
 
 
ACCC releases Statement of Issues in relation to the Brookfield-led 
consortium’s proposal, outlining concerns that the transaction could lead to a substantial 
lessening of competition in markets for the supply of above rail haulage services in WA and 
Queensland. 
November 2015  
ACCC commences its review of the Qube-led consortium’s proposed 
acquisition of Asciano. 
February 2016   
Asciano announces a potential acquisition by a consortium including 
both Qube and Brookfield Infrastructure Partners (the joint consortium).  
The ACCC suspends its reviews of the Qube-led and Brookfield-led consortiums’ proposed 
acquisitions of Asciano. 
March 2016  
 
ACCC commences its review of the joint consortium’s proposed 
acquisition of Asciano. The joint consortium structured its proposed acquisition to address 
the competition concerns previously raised by the ACCC in relation to the Brookfield-led 
consortium. 
May 2016  
 
 
ACCC releases Statement of Issues in relation to the joint consortium’s 
proposal, outlining concerns that: 
• 
the vertical integration of Patrick container terminals with both Qube and ACFS Port 
Logistics (ACFS) may lead to discrimination against rival container logistics operators 
and rival stevedores 
• 
the vertical integration of the Patrick container terminal at Port Botany with Qube’s 
NSW rail operations may result in discrimination against Qube’s competitors. 
June 2016 
 
 
The joint consortium parties announce that they have restructured the 
proposed acquisition such that Asciano’s 50 per cent interest in the ACFS Joint Venture will 
be transferred to the Tzaneros interests (the current ACFS Joint Venture partner) along with 
certain port head leases. 
July 2016  
 
 
ACCC announces it will not oppose the proposed acquisition. 
Media inquiries  
ACCC Media  
1300 138 917  
MR 130/16 
21 July 2016 
