Page 1 of 24 
 
Public Competition Assessment 
21 July 2016 
Proposed acquisition of Asciano by a consortium 
comprising Brookfield, Qube & Others  
 
The ACCC’s decision 
1. 
On 21 July 2016 the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission 
announced its decision not to oppose the proposed acquisition of Asciano 
Limited (Asciano) by a consortium comprising Brookfield Infrastructure Partners 
L.P. (and certain of its affiliates) (Brookfield), Qube Holdings Limited (Qube), 
Global Infrastructure Management, LLC (on behalf of itself and its managed 
funds and clients) (GIP), Canada Pension Plan Investment Board (CPPIB), CIC 
Capital Corporation (CIC Capital), British Columbia Investment Management 
Corporation (bcIMC), GIC Private Limited (GIC) and Qatar Investment Authority 
(QIA) (collectively, the Consortium).  
2. 
The ACCC considered that the proposed acquisition of Asciano (the proposed 
acquisition) would not be likely to contravene section 50 of the Competition and 
Consumer Act 2010 (the Act).  
3. 
Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to have 
the effect, of substantially lessening competition in any market. 
4. 
This Public Competition Assessment outlines reasons for the decision by the 
ACCC not to oppose the Consortium’s proposed acquisition of Asciano. 
5. 
The proposed acquisition involved a complicated transaction structure where 
various business segments of Asciano, that is Pacific National, Patrick Container 
Terminals and Patrick Bulk and Automotive Port Services, were to be divided 
between various members of the Consortium in order to minimise competition 
issues. More detail on the transaction structure is provided below. On 27 June 
2016 Asciano announced a variation to the transaction whereby Asciano’s 50 
per cent interest in the ACFS Joint Venture (ACFS) would no longer be acquired 
by Brookfield, GIC, bcIMC and QIA (together, the Brookfield parties) but would 
instead be transferred to TZI 1 Pty Ltd, Arthur Tzaneros, Terry Tzaneros and 
ZED Group Australia Pty Ltd (together, the Tzaneros interests), the owners of 
the other 50 per cent of ACFS. 
6. 
A key issue for the ACCC was whether the proposed acquisition would enable 
the Consortium members to discriminate in favour of their own operations in a 
relevant market. There is currently some degree of vertical integration 
throughout the containerised import-export (IMEX) supply chain. Notably, 
Asciano is a vertically integrated stevedore (through ownership of Patrick 


 
Page 2 of 24 
Container Terminals), rail and road container transport logistics operator, and 
empty container park operator.  
7. 
The proposed acquisition would result in Patrick Container Terminals being 
50 per cent owned by the Brookfield parties, who would not have any interest in 
road container transport logistics or empty container park operations. The ACCC 
considered the Brookfield parties would not consent to any discriminatory 
conduct by Patrick Container Terminals if it would potentially lead to a loss of 
stevedoring revenue. Further, with the exception of containers being transported 
by rail to and from Port Botany, the sizes of the upstream and downstream 
businesses are similar pre and post-acquisition (i.e. the scale of vertical 
integration does not change with the acquisition). The ACCC therefore 
concluded there was not likely to be a substantial lessening of competition in any 
of the relevant markets. 
8. 
For containers that are transported from regional NSW to Port Botany for export, 
the ACCC concluded that while there would be a material change in the nature 
of vertical integration between stevedoring services at Port Botany and rail-
based container transport services to Port Botany, this was not likely to 
substantially lessen competition. In forming this view, the ACCC had regard to 
the potential avenues of discrimination available to the Patrick Container 
Terminal as well as the scope and extent of constraints and conflicting incentives 
which would deter such conduct.  
9. 
The ACCC also concluded that the following aspects of the proposed acquisition 
were not likely to substantially lessen competition in any market: 
 
the acquisition of Pacific National  
 
the acquisition of Patrick Bulk and Automotive Port Services (BAPS)  
 
various cross shareholdings between the Consortium members that would 
arise as a result of the proposed acquisition. 
10. 
Please note that this and other public competition assessments are subject to 
the following qualifications: 
 
the ACCC considers each transaction on a case-by-case basis and so the 
analysis and decision outlined in one assessment will not necessarily 
reflect the ACCC’s view of another transaction, even where that other 
transaction may involve the same or a related market; and 
 
as assessments are brief and also do not refer to confidential information 
provided by the parties or other market participants, assessments do not 
set out all of the issues and information considered by the ACCC, nor all of 
the analysis and reasons of the ACCC.  
 


 
Page 3 of 24 
The parties and the transaction 
The acquirer: the Consortium members 
11. 
Qube is listed on the Australian Securities Exchange. It focuses on import and 
export logistics services throughout Australia, operating at a number of levels in 
the supply chain. Qube does not currently have any container stevedoring 
interests. Qube’s logistics business (Qube Logistics) supplies road and rail 
transport services, warehousing and distribution services, empty container park 
and related services and freight forwarding services. Qube also operates 
intermodal terminals1 and is developing the Moorebank Intermodal Terminal 
(Moorebank). Moorebank is scheduled to open in 2017 and will be the largest 
intermodal terminal in the Sydney metropolitan area.2 Qube operates the 
majority of trains carrying containers into Port Botany. Qube also owns 50 per 
cent of AAT, an automotive and general freight terminal operator at the Port of 
Brisbane, Port of Melbourne, Port of Adelaide and Port Kembla. Asciano owns 
the other 50 per cent of AAT, as discussed further below. 
12. 
Brookfield is a global asset manager with interests in property, renewable power 
and infrastructure assets. Brookfield's principal Australian businesses are the 
Dalrymple Bay Coal Terminal (DBCT) and Brookfield Rail. The DBCT business 
comprises a port facility that exports coal mined in the Bowen Basin region of 
central Queensland. Brookfield Rail is a below rail access provider which 
operates over 5,100 kilometres of track and related infrastructure in the 
southwest region of WA. 
13. 
GIP is a global, independent infrastructure investor, which targets investments in 
infrastructure. GIP manages QSuper's 15 per cent equity interest in NSW Ports 
(the long term leaseholder of Port Botany) and, as part of these management 
rights, GIP appoints a board representative to NSW Ports on behalf of Q Super. 
GIP also has an interest in Terminal Investment Limited SA (TIL), which was 
established by Mediterranean Shipping Company, the world's second largest 
container shipping line. TIL is the world's sixth largest global container stevedore 
but does not operate in Australia. 
14. 
CPPIB is a professional investment management organisation that invests funds 
not needed by the Canada Pension Plan to pay current benefits. CPPIB's 
Australian investments include toll roads and real estate investments, including 
interests in joint ventures with the Goodman Group that focus on industrial 
properties (including logistics and business park assets). 
15. 
bcIMC is one of Canada's largest institutional investors, investing on behalf of 
public sector clients in British Columbia. Its activities help finance workers’ 
retirement benefits. Among its investments, bcIMC has a 9 per cent interest in 
DBCT Management, the long term lessor of the DBCT. 
16. 
QIA is a sovereign wealth fund based in Qatar. The purpose of QIA is to 
develop, invest and manage reserve funds and other assets assigned to it by the 
State of Qatar. QIA has a minority shareholding of less than 9 per cent in 
Glencore Plc.  
                                                 
1  For further detail see the Qube Logistics website: http://www.qube.com.au/logistics.  
2  For further detail see the Moorebank Intermodal Company Limited website: 
http://www.micl.com.au/.  


 
Page 4 of 24 
17. 
CIC Capital is a subsidiary of China Investment Corporation. The overseas 
investment and management activities of China Investment Corporation are 
undertaken by CIC International Co., Ltd. (CIC International) and CIC Capital. 
The ACCC has not identified any Australian assets held by CIC International or 
CIC Capital that are relevant to its competition assessment.  
18. 
GIC is incorporated in Singapore and invests for the Government of Singapore. 
The ACCC has not identified any Australian assets held by GIC that are relevant 
to its competition assessment.  
The target: Asciano 
19. 
Asciano is listed on the Australian Securities Exchange. Asciano’s business has 
several elements:  
Pacific National  
20. 
Pacific National is one of the largest providers of above rail freight haulage 
services in Australia. It provides a range of services in the containerised, bulk 
and break-bulk3 markets. It is a leading provider of interstate containerised rail 
transport services and operates intermodal terminals. Pacific National also hauls 
a range of bulk goods for domestic use and export including coal and grain. 
Pacific National competes with Qube Logistics for the provision of rail container 
IMEX logistics services, notably from regional NSW to Port Botany.  
Patrick Terminals and Logistics  
21. 
Patrick Terminals and Logistics is a major terminal operator in Australia and one 
of two container stevedores present at each of the four largest container ports in 
Australia: the Port of Melbourne, Port Botany in Sydney, the Port of Brisbane 
and the Port of Fremantle. These stevedoring and related container terminal 
operations constitute Patrick Container Terminals.  
22. 
Patrick Terminals and Logistics also has a 50 per cent interest in ACFS. ACFS is 
one of Australia’s two largest national landside container logistics operators 
focusing on IMEX services such as road transport services, empty container 
park and related services and warehousing and distribution services. ACFS 
competes directly with Qube Logistics at each major container port.  
23. 
The remaining 50 per cent interest in ACFS is held by TZI 1 Pty Ltd and its 
related entities. Asciano’s interest in ACFS will be transferred to the Tzaneros 
interests when the scheme of arrangement is implemented (see below for further 
detail).  
                                                 
3  Break-bulk cargo, or ‘general’ cargo, are goods that must be loaded and transported 
individually, and not in intermodal containers nor in bulk as with oil or grain. 


 
Page 5 of 24 
Patrick BAPS 
24. 
BAPS specialises in the management of bulk ports and supporting infrastructure 
and the provision of port-related logistics at over 40 sites across Australia and 
New Zealand. BAPS also includes:  
 
Asciano’s automotive and general stevedoring business  
 
Asciano’s 80 per cent interest in Patrick Autocare, which is a supplier of 
pre-delivery inspection motor vehicle services  
 
integrated services for the transportation, processing and storage of motor 
vehicles from the port to the beneficial freight owner. 
AAT 
25. 
Asciano owns 50 per cent of AAT, with Qube holding the remaining 50 per cent. 
As noted earlier, AAT is an automotive and general freight stevedore at the Port 
of Brisbane, Port of Melbourne, Port of Adelaide and Port Kembla. 
The transaction  
26. 
The proposed acquisition will occur through a scheme of arrangement. On 
3 June 2016, Asciano shareholders voted in favour of the scheme of 
arrangement.  
27. 
There are three main components to the proposed acquisition: the Rail 
acquisition, the BAPS acquisition and the Ports acquisition.  
Rail acquisition  
28. 
The Rail Consortium (comprising CPPIB, GIP, CIC Capital, GIC and bcIMC) 
proposes to acquire the Pacific National rail business and certain intermodal 
terminal operations (together, the Rail business). Their percentage ownership 
stakes in the Rail business will be: 
 
CPPIB – 33 per cent 
 
GIP – 27 per cent 
 
CIC Capital – 16 per cent 
 
GIC – 12 per cent 
 
bcIMC – 12 per cent 


 
Page 6 of 24 
BAPS acquisition  
29. 
The Brookfield parties propose to acquire Asciano's BAPS division and 
Asciano’s 50 per cent interest in AAT (together, the BAPS businesses). Their 
percentage ownership stakes in the BAPS businesses will be: 
 
Brookfield – 67 per cent 
 
GIC – 11 per cent 
 
bcIMC – 11 per cent 
 
QIA – 11 per cent 
Ports acquisition  
30. 
Qube and the Brookfield parties propose to acquire Asciano's Patrick Container 
Terminal business. For clarity, Asciano's 50 per cent interest in ACFS and 
Asciano's 50 per cent interest in AAT will not form part of the Ports acquisition. 
Qube and the Brookfield parties’ percentage ownership stakes in Patrick 
Container Terminals will be: 
 
Qube – 50 per cent 
 
Brookfield – 33.5 per cent 
 
GIC – 5.5 per cent 
 
bcIMC – 5.5 per cent 
 
QIA – 5.5 per cent 
31. 
The Brookfield parties will participate in the ports acquisition through a special 
purpose vehicle. This special purpose vehicle will hold the Brookfield parties’ 
collective 50 per cent interest in the Patrick Container Terminals in accordance 
with the terms of a shareholders’ agreement between the Brookfield parties. 
Additional transaction information  
32. 
The Consortium initially advised that the Brookfield parties would acquire 
Asciano’s interest in ACFS. However, on 27 June 2016, Asciano announced that 
it had agreed to transfer its 50 per cent interest in ACFS to the Tzaneros 
interests conditional upon the scheme of arrangement being implemented (the 
ACFS acquisition). Asciano also agreed to transfer certain port head leases to 
the Tzaneros interests. Following this transfer, the Tzaneros interests will own 
100 per cent of ACFS.4  
33. 
The Rail, BAPS, Ports and ACFS acquisitions will all occur around the same 
time or immediately before the implementation of the scheme.  
                                                 
4  
https://asciano.com.au/investors/announcements/1229/download.  


 
Page 7 of 24 
34. 
The ACCC notes Qube’s proposal to acquire Asciano’s (subsequently the 
Brookfield parties’) 50 per cent interest in AAT and CPPIB’s proposed acquisition 
of 40 per cent of Glencore Agriculture. These are separate proposed acquisitions 
which will be subject to separate ACCC reviews.  
35. 
The ACCC will consider any further related acquisitions by any of the 
Consortium parties including any changes in the minority shareholdings as and 
when they arise in the future. 
Earlier Asciano matters 
36. 
The ACCC had earlier considered two separate proposals, one by a consortium 
led by Qube and another by a consortium led by Brookfield. The ACCC’s 
consideration of those two earlier proposals ceased when the new joint proposal 
to acquire Asciano was announced.  
37. 
The ACCC released a Statement of Issues in relation to the Brookfield-led 
consortium’s proposal in October 2015, outlining concerns that the transaction 
could lead to a substantial lessening of competition in markets for the supply of 
above rail haulage services in WA and Queensland. The joint proposal 
restructured the acquisition to address the competition concerns previously 
raised by the ACCC. 
 
Review timeline  
38. 
The following table outlines the timeline of key events for the ACCC in this 
matter.  
Date 
Event 
30 March 2016 
ACCC commenced review under the Merger Process Guidelines. 
18 April 2016 
Initial market inquiries closed. 
26 May 2016 
ACCC published a statement of issues. 
10 June 2016 
Closing date for submissions in response to the statement of 
issues. 
21 July 2016 
ACCC decision not to oppose. 
39. 
The total review period, net of time taken by the parties to submit information or 
documents, was 79 business days. 
  


 
Page 8 of 24 
Market inquiries  
40. 
The ACCC conducted extensive market inquiries with a range of industry 
participants, including stevedores, port authorities, container logistics operators, 
shipping lines, importers and exporters, industry bodies, other regulatory 
agencies and other interested parties. Submissions were sought in relation to the 
substantive competition issues. 
41. 
Given the complicated nature of the transaction structure, the cross 
shareholdings between consortium members, and various different relationships 
in the IMEX container supply chain, the proposed acquisition involved complex 
vertical integration issues. Market participants expressed a broad and differing 
range of views regarding the likely effect of the proposed acquisition on the 
IMEX container supply chain. 
 
Statement of Issues  
42. 
On 26 May 2016, the ACCC published a Statement of Issues on the proposed 
acquisition identifying a number of potential competition issues. In the Statement 
of Issues, the ACCC stated its preliminary view that the proposed acquisition 
may reduce competition for: 
 
rail-based container transport services from regional NSW to Port Botany 
 
landside IMEX container logistics services to and from the Ports of Botany, 
Brisbane, Fremantle and Melbourne  
 
stevedoring services at the Ports of Botany, Brisbane, Fremantle and 
Melbourne. 
43. 
At the time of publishing the Statement of Issues, the proposed acquisition 
involved the transfer of Asciano’s 50 per cent interest in ACFS to the Brookfield 
parties.  
44. 
In the Statement of Issues, the ACCC also stated its preliminary view that the 
following issues were unlikely to raise competition concerns: 
 
the cross-shareholdings between members of the Consortium 
 
the Rail Consortium’s acquisition of Pacific National 
 
the Brookfield parties’ acquisition of the BAPS businesses. 
 


 
Page 9 of 24 
Industry background  
45. 
Many parties play a role in the IMEX container supply chain. These parties 
include importers/exporters, stevedores, shipping lines, road and rail container 
transport operators, freight forwarders, intermodal terminal operators, port 
authorities, below rail operators, empty container park operators and government 
bodies. 
46. 
There are a number of typical contractual agreements between different tiers of 
the supply chain: 
 
Importers and exporters (or freight forwarders/shipping agents that act on 
their behalf) commonly have contracts with: 
 
shipping lines 
 
rail and/or road transport operators (to transport containers to and 
from the port) 
 
other logistics service providers (for ancillary services such as 
distribution and warehousing services and container 
packing/unpacking).  
 
Shipping lines own the containers, and have contracts with: 
 
importers/exporters (or freight forwarders/shipping agents that act 
on their behalf) 
 
container stevedores 
 
empty container park operators 
 
road/rail transport operators (to transport empty containers). 
 
Road/rail transport operators have contracts with the importer or exporter 
(or freight forwarder), and in addition: 
 
pay fees to the stevedore, in order to access the container 
terminal, often through a vehicle booking system (VBS) 
 
pay fees to empty container park operators, in order to access 
empty container parks 
 
pay fees to intermodal terminal operators, in order to access 
intermodal terminals 
 
if they are a rail provider, have rail access arrangements with 
stevedores and the operators of tracks leading to the port.  
 
Stevedores enter into leases with the relevant Port Authority. 
 
Empty container park operators enter into leases with the relevant Port 
Authority, if the parks are located within the port precinct.  
47. 
Below is a simplified diagram that summarises the movement of full containers 
along the supply chain and indicates where there are typically commercial 
relationships between container stevedores and other key parties. 


 
Page 10 of 24 
Diagram 1:  
Commercial relationships between stevedores and other key 
parties in the container supply chain 
 
 
* Intermodal terminals are sometimes used to change between modes of container 
transport, e.g. to change from rail transport to road transport or from regional rail 
trains to port shuttle trains 
 
48. 
As set out above, the importer/exporter or freight forwarder chooses the shipping 
line and this shipping line chooses the stevedore/container terminal.  
49. 
Market participants submitted to the ACCC that transport operators currently 
have limited, or no, influence over the stevedore that they must call at to 
collect/drop-off containers and in most cases they collect/drop-off containers at 
each of the container terminals. As all landside logistics transport operators 
generally have to access every container terminal and have to deal with each 
stevedore, the ACCC considered that the stevedore is in a position to materially 
influence the operations of, and competition between, landside container 
logistics transport operators. 
50. 
Contracts between shipping lines and stevedores are typically between three 
and five years and there is generally limited ability for shipping lines to change 
stevedores during the contract period. Landside container logistics transport 
operators and importers/exporters can and do voice concern to shipping lines 
about access and landside efficiency at container terminals. However, the main 
factors which influence a shipping line’s choice of stevedore are stevedoring 
fees, berthing window scheduling and availability, and quayside efficiency. 
However, all else being equal, the landside access and efficiency of a stevedore 
can influence the shipping lines’ choice of stevedore.  
 


 
Page 11 of 24 
Market definition  
51. 
The ACCC considered the competitive effects of the proposed acquisition in the 
following markets:  
 
IMEX landside container transport services 
 
IMEX landside container transport services to and from each of 
the Ports of Brisbane, Fremantle and Melbourne (including 
transport by road, rail or a combination of both) 
 
IMEX landside container transport services to and from 
metropolitan areas in Greater Sydney to Port Botany (including 
transport by road, rail or a combination of both) 
 
rail-based container transport services from regional NSW to Port 
Botany for export 
 
empty container park services at or near each of the Ports of Botany, 
Brisbane, Fremantle and Melbourne  
 
container stevedoring services at each of the Ports of Botany, Brisbane, 
Fremantle and Melbourne. 
IMEX landside container transport services 
52. 
The ACCC considered the extent to which the landside transportation of IMEX 
containers by rail is constrained by road transportation. For the Ports of Brisbane 
and Fremantle, there are no rail sidings controlled by Patrick Container 
Terminals and as such all containerised freight must be transported into the 
terminal via truck.  
53. 
While there is a rail siding within the Patrick Container Terminal at Port of 
Melbourne, it is not currently open for access by third-parties. A small proportion 
of containers exported through the Port of Melbourne are transported via rail 
directly to the DP World container terminal. However, the ACCC’s market 
inquiries indicated that the cost of transporting containers to Port of Melbourne 
via rail is closely constrained by road transportation.  
54. 
At Port Botany, the rail sidings inside the three containers terminals are relatively 
well utilised. However, the vast majority of containers to and from Port Botany 
are currently transported by road. The ACCC noted the recent significant 
investment in metropolitan intermodal rail terminals in Sydney which is likely to 
increase the volumes of containers transported to and from Port Botany via rail. 
However, on the basis of the information available, the ACCC concluded that the 
transportation of IMEX containers between metropolitan areas in Greater Sydney 
and Port Botany by rail is closely constrained by road transportation and is likely 
to continue to be in the foreseeable future.  
55. 
In contrast, the weight restrictions imposed on containers transported on road 
through parts of regional NSW along with the distance and terrain between 
regional NSW and Port Botany mean that road transport is significantly more 
expensive than rail transport for a significant segment of exporters located in 
regional NSW. Accordingly, the ACCC considered that for these regional export 
customers, road transport is not a constraint on rail transport. 


 
Page 12 of 24 
Empty container park services 
56. 
A shipping line’s choice of empty container park can depend on a number of 
factors including:  
 
the price charged for storing containers  
 
the cost of transporting containers between the container park and the port 
(which is closely correlated to the proximity of the container park to the 
container terminal)  
 
the proximity of the container park to the warehouses or distribution 
centres of the shipping line’s major customers, the importers and exporters 
 
whether the shipping line requires access to a container park with a rail 
siding.  
57. 
The ACCC considered the ability of shipping lines and container logistics 
operators to switch between empty container parks located within the port 
precinct (on-port empty container parks) and outside the port precinct (off-port 
empty container parks). However, the ACCC did not consider it necessary to 
form a concluded view as to whether the supply of on-port and off-port empty 
container park services may be more appropriately considered separate markets 
as it did not materially affect the ACCC’s competition assessment. 
58. 
For the purpose of this review, the ACCC considered it sufficient to consider the 
proposed acquisition in the context of empty container parks at or near each of 
the Ports of Botany, Brisbane, Fremantle and Melbourne.  
Container stevedoring services 
59. 
The ACCC considered the proposed acquisition in the context of container 
stevedoring markets in each of the Ports of Botany, Brisbane, Fremantle and 
Melbourne. However, the ACCC did not consider it necessary to form a 
concluded view as to the specific scope of the container stevedoring market as 
the ACCC’s competition assessment did not hinge on the precise definition of 
this market.  
 


 
Page 13 of 24 
Future with and without the acquisition  
60. 
Section 50 of the Act prohibits mergers or acquisitions that would have the effect 
or be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
In assessing a proposed acquisition pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC 
considers the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future competitive 
environment post-acquisition if the acquisition proceeds (the "with" position) to 
the likely future competitive environment if the acquisition does not proceed (the 
"without" position) to determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in any relevant market. 
61. 
While there was some uncertainty as to whether another party would acquire 
Asciano in the absence of the proposed acquisition, and some speculation 
regarding whether the transaction may be restructured by some or all members 
of the Consortium to address potential competition issues identified in the 
ACCC’s Statement of Issues, information available to the ACCC did not establish 
that the future without the proposed acquisition was likely to involve a 
significantly different industry or Asciano structure than the status quo.  
62. 
Accordingly, on the basis of the information available, the ACCC considered that 
the status quo would apply if the transaction does not proceed (the “without” 
position).  
Vertical integration under the proposed acquisition 
63. 
Patrick Container Terminals is currently wholly owned by Asciano and is 
vertically integrated with two landside container logistics service providers: 
ACFS, in which Asciano has a 50 per cent interest, and Pacific National which is 
100 per cent owned by Asciano.  
64. 
Under the proposed acquisition, Patrick Container Terminals will be owned and 
operated as a joint venture where one joint venture party (Qube) wholly owns a 
landside container logistics operator (Qube Logistics). Qube Logistics competes 
closely with both ACFS (primarily for metropolitan container transport and empty 
container park services) and Pacific National (primarily for regional rail-based 
container transport services). 
65. 
Diagram 2 highlights the change in vertical integration that results from the 
proposed acquisition.  


 
Page 14 of 24 
Diagram 2: extent of vertical integration before and after the proposed 
acquisition 
 
66. 
The ACCC notes that the road container transport and empty container park 
operations of Qube and ACFS are of a similar size. This is relevant to assessing 
the likely competitive effects from the proposed acquisition. An important 
distinction however, is that pre-acquisition a 100 per cent owner of Patrick 
Container Terminals has a 50 per cent interest in a downstream container 
transport and empty container park operator, while post acquisition a 50 per cent 
owner of Patrick Container Terminals has a 100 per cent interest in a 
downstream container transport and empty container park operator.   
67. 
Qube’s logistics operations include its interest in Moorebank and its metropolitan 
rail container transport services to Port Botany. Although Asciano currently owns 
Pacific National, Pacific National’s IMEX-focussed container operations in NSW 
are limited. Therefore, the proposed acquisition would increase the extent of 


 
Page 15 of 24 
vertical integration between the Patrick Container Terminal in Port Botany and 
NSW IMEX-focussed rail-based container logistics.  
68. 
The ACCC therefore considered that while the vertical integration in the IMEX 
container supply chain with and without the acquisition was similar in many 
respects, there were material changes which required close consideration.  
 
Competition analysis – rail-based container transport from 
regional NSW to Port Botany  
69. 
A key issue for the ACCC was whether the vertical integration of the Port Botany 
Patrick Container Terminal with Qube’s rail container transport operations would 
be likely to result in a substantial lessening of competition in the market for 
regional rail container transport services to Port Botany.  
70. 
This was an issue specific to exports from regional NSW through Port Botany as: 
 
rail transportation of IMEX containers between metropolitan NSW and Port 
Botany appear to be closely constrained by road transportation 
 
at the Ports of Brisbane and Fremantle there is no rail siding at the Patrick 
Container Terminal so there is no scope for discrimination between 
different rail operators 
 
at the Port of Melbourne, the Patrick Container Terminal does not currently 
provide access to third party rail operators and the rail transportation of 
containers to Port Melbourne appears to be constrained by road 
transportation in any event. 
71. 
The Patrick Container Terminal at Port Botany is already vertically integrated 
with an IMEX container rail service provider in Pacific National, which was at one 
stage the largest rail service provider for containers to Port Botany. The ACCC 
noted that the presence of such vertical integration had not prevented Qube from 
entering into the market for rail-based container transport services, and growing 
to become the largest rail service provider to Port Botany.  
72. 
However, industry participants cited Qube’s operation of Moorebank as a reason 
why the proposed acquisition would give rise to a different, larger degree of 
vertical integration than currently exists or has previously existed between 
Patrick and Pacific National. Market participants noted that Moorebank will be 
the largest intermodal terminal in the Sydney metropolitan area and will be 
significantly bigger than other intermodal terminals. Market participants also 
considered that after Moorebank commences operations, Qube will start 
operating a number of train services between Moorebank and Port Botany which 
will reduce the spare capacity at the Patrick Container Terminal rail siding. 
Ability and incentive for Patrick to discriminate in favour of Qube 
73. 
The ACCC considered whether Qube’s operation of Moorebank, and the 
consequent potential reduction in spare capacity at the Patrick Container 
Terminal rail siding, would be likely to increase the ability and incentive of the 


 
Page 16 of 24 
Patrick Container Terminal to discriminate in favour of Qube’s trains. Potential 
methods of discrimination are discussed below. 
74. 
The provision of stevedoring services at container terminals achieves 
significantly higher marginal revenues relative to the provision of IMEX container 
rail transportation, with the latter being characterised by relatively high variable 
costs of operation. In terms of revenue, the size of the rail-based container 
transport services market from regional NSW to Port Botany is also relatively 
small when compared to the revenue for stevedoring services at Port Botany.  
75. 
Given the above, the ACCC considered that Patrick would not discriminate in 
favour of Qube’s rail services, if such discriminatory conduct would reduce or 
pose significant risk to the profitability of the Patrick Container Terminal 
operations. The profitability of a container terminal is primarily driven by its 
shipping line customers, container throughput and efficiencies of operation. The 
ACCC therefore considered that if discrimination between rail operators would 
risk losing a shipping line customer or reducing container throughput, there 
would be very little incentive to engage in such discrimination.   
76. 
In addition, in assessing the ability and incentive for Patrick to discriminate in 
favour of Qube’s rail transport operations, the ACCC had regard to the Brookfield 
parties’ 50 per cent ownership of Patrick Container Terminals. The Brookfield 
parties will have no economic interest in Qube’s downstream rail operations and 
will not have any incentive to discriminate between rail operators accessing Port 
Botany. The ACCC also noted that the Brookfield parties will have an active role 
in the management and operation of the Patrick Container Terminals and that 
Brookfield has ongoing experience in managing container terminals 
internationally. The ACCC therefore considered that the Brookfield parties’ 
50 per cent interest in the Patrick Container Terminals business would restrict 
Qube in operating the container terminal in any way which would reduce the 
profitability of the Patrick business.  
77. 
The ACCC therefore considered whether it may be possible for Patrick Container 
Terminals to leverage its position to distort the competitive process between rail 
operators transporting containers from regional NSW to Port Botany for export 
without risking the profitability of the Patrick Container Terminal operations.  
Potential methods of discrimination between rail operators  
Price 
78. 
The ACCC considered that there was limited scope for a stevedore to 
discriminate between rail operators on the basis of price as:  
 
prices are capped by the NSW government and the stevedores charge at 
the price cap; and  
 
the Brookfield parties would not likely consent to charging Qube a lower 
price as this would reduce their share of the Patrick Container Terminal’s 
revenue.  


 
Page 17 of 24 
Servicing of trains 
79. 
The ACCC considered whether the Patrick Container Terminal could prioritise 
the servicing of Qube trains over competing operators. Examples raised by 
market participants included Patrick accepting Qube trains that are late or arrive 
outside of their allocated window. This could cause delays, increasing the costs 
of competing rail operators and making them less efficient and less competitive 
against Qube. Market participants expressed concern that Patrick could ensure 
that Qube trains would always have all containers lifted from the train, even if the 
train arrived late to its window and irrespective of whether the stevedore is able 
to lift all of the containers within the scheduled window. Market participants 
considered that Patrick would not be likely to give rival rail operators the same 
service. 
80. 
Such discrimination could result in delays for rival rail operators who would not 
be able to access the Patrick Container Terminal at their scheduled times and 
who would not be afforded the same guarantee of having the full load of 
containers lifted. Rival rail operators would then be required to go to an 
intermodal terminal and have the remaining containers transported to Port 
Botany by road, or port shuttle, at significant additional cost. 
Allocation of windows at the container terminal rail siding 
81. 
The ACCC considered there would be limited scope for Patrick to deny or 
withdraw a regional rail operator’s access to a pre-existing window to favour 
Qube as: 
 
each regional service has rail siding windows allocated for both the Patrick 
and DP World container terminals and require aligned rail path allocations 
by the track operator, the Australian Rail Track Corporation (ARTC) 
 
on this basis, without the co-operation of both DP World and ARTC, Patrick 
would not be able to take away an existing rail window from an operator for 
the purpose of re-allocating the window to a Qube service from regional 
NSW 
 
such conduct would be an overt and visible act of preferential treatment 
which would likely be observed by industry participants including Transport 
for NSW (TFNSW), NSW Ports (the long term leaseholder of Port Botany) 
and shipping line customers.  
82. 
However, there may be scope for Patrick to preferentially allocate new windows 
at the Patrick Container Terminal where both Qube and a competitor are 
requesting a window at a similar time. Market participants considered this to be 
of particular concern for new port shuttle services from metropolitan intermodal 
terminals. As noted above, the ACCC considered, on the basis of the information 
available, that port shuttle rail services from metropolitan intermodal terminals 
are likely to be closely constrained by road services in the foreseeable future. 
The ACCC therefore considered that this form of potential discrimination 
provided little scope for Qube to be able to increase prices or lower the quality of 
its rail service offerings.  


 
Page 18 of 24 
Potential constraints on discrimination by the Patrick Container Terminal  
Risk of losing volumes or shipping line customers 
83. 
The ACCC considered that even the subtle forms of discrimination outlined 
above would risk importers/exporters switching volumes away from shipping 
lines stopping at the Patrick terminal to shipping lines calling at other container 
terminals such as DP World. Many IMEX customers appear capable of switching 
at least some volumes between shipping lines.  
84. 
Discrimination between rail operators, if detected, would also risk concerns and 
complaints being raised by importers/exporters and competing rail operators with 
Patrick’s shipping line customers. While the likelihood of a shipping line 
switching stevedores based on allegations of discrimination against landside 
logistics operators may not be high, the financial detriment that would be 
incurred by the stevedore, if switching did occur, would be significant.  
85. 
The ACCC further considered that even if Patrick Container Terminals were to 
engage in the subtle forms of discrimination noted above, it is not clear that such 
conduct would necessarily lead to Qube being able to attract or retain a 
significant number of customers and be able to increase prices or reduce the 
quality of its offering. Therefore, discrimination between rail operators may have 
the potential to provide a relatively small financial reward at the risk of 
significantly greater financial detriment through less stevedoring revenue.  
Rail performance monitoring and potential regulation  
86. 
Rail access and performance at Port Botany, including the rail service 
performance of the stevedores, is currently monitored by TFNSW. The data that 
TFNSW collects and monitors means that it is well placed to detect 
discrimination by a stevedore between rail operators.  
87. 
The discriminatory conduct outlined above would have the potential to cause 
greater inefficiencies in rail access to the port and cause more containers to be 
transported by road. Such an outcome would be contrary to TFNSW’s objective 
to promote a modal shift to rail. TFNSW has established the Port Botany Rail 
Optimisation Group to consider and provide advice to government on ways to 
improve efficiency and performance of rail services at Port Botany. Part of the 
reason for establishing the Port Botany Rail Optimisation Group was to avoid 
additional regulation and to attempt to improve efficiency through voluntary 
standards and protocols. However, the ACCC noted that the relevant NSW 
Minister has the ability to expand TFNSW’s regulatory role, under existing 
legislation, if the Patrick Container Terminal were to engage in discriminatory 
conduct.5  
88. 
The ACCC considered that the threat of regulation by TFNSW may constrain 
Patrick from discriminating in favour of Qube’s rail services to some extent. 
However the ACCC did not place significant reliance on the potential for 
regulation in reaching its decision. 
                                                 
5  
Ports and Maritime Administration Act 1995 (NSW), s. 10B, sch. 4. 


 
Page 19 of 24 
Non-discrimination provisions in Patrick Container Terminal Port Botany lease 
89. 
The ACCC noted that NSW Ports is the landlord at Port Botany, as well as at the 
Enfield and Cooks River intermodal terminals. Rail-based port shuttles currently 
run between Cooks River and Port Botany and both Aurizon and NSW Ports 
have stated that the commencement of intermodal operations at Enfield will pave 
the way for port shuttles between Enfield and Port Botany.6 The ACCC therefore 
considered that NSW Ports will have a significant incentive to try to prevent 
discriminatory access to rail transport operators, as otherwise the profitability of 
the Enfield and Cooks River intermodal terminals would be at risk.  
90. 
The ACCC has reviewed the lease agreement between Patrick Container 
Terminals and NSW Ports, in particular the non-discrimination clauses and 
dispute resolution mechanisms specifically directed at ensuring open and equal 
access for rail operators to the Patrick rail siding.  
91. 
The ACCC considered these non-discrimination provisions to be relatively light-
handed and there was some uncertainty as to whether NSW Ports would have 
sufficient oversight and enforcement mechanisms under the lease to detect and 
prevent Patrick from discriminating in favour of Qube.  
92. 
However the ACCC considered that the incentive of NSW Ports to ensure that 
rail transport services from Enfield and Cooks River intermodal terminals could 
access the Patrick rail siding, along with the lease clauses, may provide some 
form of deterrent to the Patrick Container Terminal from discriminating against 
rival regional rail operators. However, the ACCC did not place significant reliance 
on the lease clauses in reaching its conclusion.  
Conclusion 
93. 
The ACCC concluded that the Patrick Container Terminal at Port Botany would 
have limited ability and incentive to discriminate against Qube’s rival rail 
operators and that it was not likely that Qube would be able to charge higher 
prices or offer a lower quality service. In reaching this view, the ACCC had 
regard to the following factors:  
 
there is minimal scope for a stevedore to discriminate between rail 
operators on a price-basis at Port Botany as service prices are capped by 
the NSW Government  
 
there is limited scope for a stevedore to prevent operators with existing rail 
windows from accessing the stevedore’s rail siding in order to favour its 
own rail operator 
 
the Patrick Container Terminal would continue to face competition from DP 
World and Hutchison for stevedoring services in the foreseeable future. 
Discrimination between rail providers at the Patrick Container Terminal rail 
siding would risk losing shipping line customers or container volumes 
                                                 
6  
https://www.aurizon.com.au/news/news/aurizon-eyes-intermodal-growth-with-enfield-
opening 
http://www.nswports.com.au/assets/Media-Releases/NSW-Ports-Media-Release-
Commencement-of-Aurizon-operations-at-Enfield-May-2016.pdf. 


 
Page 20 of 24 
 
there is little incentive for a vertically integrated stevedore to discriminate 
against competing downstream rail operators if such discrimination would 
risk losing throughput or shipping customers at the container terminal 
which earn significantly higher marginal revenues relative to rail operations 
 
the Brookfield parties, as 50 per cent owner of Patrick, would not consent 
to any discriminatory conduct if it would potentially lead to a loss of 
stevedoring revenue  
 
to a lesser extent, the monitoring role of TFNSW and threat of further 
regulation by the NSW Government, as well as non-discrimination 
provisions in the Patrick Container Terminal lease, may provide some 
constraint. 
 
Competition analysis – landside container transport 
services  
94. 
In the Statement of Issues published on 26 May 2016, the ACCC stated that as 
the proposed acquisition would result in Patrick Container Terminals being 
aligned with both Qube Logistics and ACFS, Patrick Container Terminals may 
have an increased incentive to discriminate against Qube's and ACFS's rival 
landside logistics service providers. The ACCC expressed a preliminary view 
that this increased incentive to discriminate may lead to a substantial lessening 
of competition in the markets for the supply of landside container transport 
services at each of the Ports of Brisbane, Botany, Fremantle and Melbourne. 
95. 
Subsequent to the release of the Statement of Issues, Asciano announced on 
27 June 2016 that Asciano’s 50 per cent interest in ACFS would be sold to the 
Tzaneros interests rather than the Brookfield parties. The agreement with the 
Tzaneros interests also involves Asciano assigning certain port head leases 
(predominantly those that ACFS currently sub-leases from Asciano) to the 
Tzaneros interests. Accordingly, under the proposed acquisition, Patrick 
Container Terminals will continue to be aligned with only one container logistics 
operator, Qube Logistics. 
96. 
On the basis that Qube and ACFS have similar market shares for IMEX road 
container transport operations, the ACCC considered that (in respect of road 
container transport operations) the vertical integration between Patrick Container 
Terminals and Qube Logistics is comparable to the current vertical integration 
between Patrick Container Terminals and ACFS. However the respective 
ownership interests in the relevant upstream and downstream operations will be 
materially different as: 
 
pre-acquisition, Asciano owns 100 per cent of Patrick Container Terminals 
and only 50 per cent of ACFS which limits its incentive to discriminate in 
favour of ACFS (as it would only capture 50 per cent of any increase in 
ACFS revenues)  
 
post-acquisition, Qube will continue to own 100 per cent of Qube Logistics 
but only 50 per cent of Patrick Container Terminals which limits Qube’s 
ability to discriminate in favour of its downstream operations as the 
Brookfield parties (as 50 per cent owners of Patrick Container Terminals) 


 
Page 21 of 24 
would not consent to any discriminatory conduct that would risk lessening 
container terminal revenues.  
97. 
The ACCC concluded that the different nature of the vertical integration, whereby 
post-acquisition the ability to discriminate is likely to be less but the incentive is 
likely to be stronger, is unlikely to give rise to a lessening of competition in the 
markets for the supply of IMEX landside container transport services at each of 
the Ports of Botany, Brisbane, Fremantle and Melbourne. Further, the ACCC 
took into consideration the history of vertical integration between the major 
stevedores and IMEX landside container logistic service providers. Such vertical 
integration in the past does not appear to have given rise to discriminatory 
conduct that has damaged the viability of competitors.  
Future viability of ACFS 
98. 
The ACCC also considered whether ACFS would continue to be viable if it were 
no longer aligned with Patrick Container Terminals. As noted in the ACCC’s 
Statement of Issues, market participants raised particular concerns that a 
number of ACFS’s key sites are subleased to it by Patrick Container Terminals 
(which holds the head leases for those sites).  
99. 
As stated above, under the agreement between Asciano and the Tzaneros 
interests, Asciano will assign a number of the head leases to the Tzaneros 
interests. The ACCC considers that ACFS will likely continue to be a competitive 
constraint on Qube Logistics and other logistics providers. 
 
Competition analysis – empty container parks and 
container stevedoring  
100. In the Statement of Issues, the ACCC expressed the preliminary view that the 
alignment of Patrick Container Terminals with both Qube and ACFS may 
substantially lessen competition in the market for the supply of container 
stevedoring services, as Patrick Container Terminals may be able to use Qube 
and ACFS to favour Patrick Container Terminals over other stevedores.  
101. As noted above, the ACCC understands that, on average, Qube and ACFS have 
similar market shares for road container transport between each port and 
metropolitan areas and also for empty container park services.  
102. Given that Asciano’s interest in ACFS will be transferred to the Tzaneros 
interests, the ACCC considered that the size of the downstream landside 
container transport service provider vertically integrated with Patrick Container 
Terminals does not change with the acquisition.  
103. Accordingly, the ACCC did not consider that the proposed acquisition would lead 
to an increased ability for Patrick Container Terminals to use a related container 
logistics operator to favour Patrick Container Terminals over other stevedores.  
104. The ACCC also expressed the preliminary view in the Statement of Issues that 
the alignment of Patrick Container Terminals with Qube’s significant empty 
container park interests at or near the Port of Fremantle could enable Patrick to 
bundle empty container park services with stevedoring services in a way that DP 
World could not compete with. 


 
Page 22 of 24 
105. During post-Statement of Issues market inquiries, market participants advised 
that while Qube currently operates the majority of container parks at or near the 
Port of Fremantle, an empty container park is currently being developed by 
ACFS and Tyne Container Services Pty Ltd which is expected to open shortly.7  
106. The ACCC considered that this independent container park would be likely to 
constrain the Patrick Container Terminal’s ability to bundle stevedoring and 
empty container park services in such a way that could lessen competition in 
stevedoring services in Fremantle. The ACCC therefore considers that this 
aspect of the proposed acquisition is not likely to have the effect of substantially 
lessening competition in any relevant markets.  
 
Competition analysis – cross shareholdings and future 
acquisitions 
107. Throughout its review, the ACCC considered the following aspects of the 
transaction but, based on market feedback and other information the ACCC had 
before it, considered that they would not be likely to result in competition issues.  
Acquisition of Pacific National 
108. The ACCC considered whether the proposed acquisition of Pacific National by 
the Rail Consortium had the potential to raise competition issues: 
 
by combining Asciano's Pacific National business with any relevant GIP, 
CPPIB, CIC Capital, GIC and bcIMC investment or operations 
 
through the common financial interests between the Consortium parties 
created by the transaction structure 
 
by facilitating the transfer of commercially sensitive information between 
competitors.  
109. Some industry participants raised concerns in relation to bcIMC acquiring a 
12 per cent interest in Pacific National as bcIMC has a 9 per cent interest in 
DBCT Management (the long term lease holder of the Dalrymple Bay Coal 
Terminal). The ACCC concluded that these minority shareholdings were not 
likely to provide bcIMC with the ability to control or materially influence the 
operation of DBCT Management and that preferential treatment of Pacific 
National trains and customers at the DBCT was not likely.  
110. The ACCC also considered that these shareholdings held by bcIMC would not 
be likely to result in the sharing of commercially sensitive information that would 
be likely to substantially lessen competition in any relevant market. 
111. The ACCC considered the various interests of all of the Rail Consortium parties 
and did not consider that there were any other competitive overlaps or 
                                                 
7  
http://www.fremantleports.com.au/News/News/Pages/News-
Item.aspx?item=745&returnurl=http://www.fremantleports.com.au/News/Newsletters/Pages
/Port-News-2015.aspx.  


 
Page 23 of 24 
relationships with Pacific National that would be likely to give rise to potential 
competition concerns in any relevant market. 
Acquisition of BAPS 
112. With the Asciano 50 per cent interest in ACFS being acquired by the Tzaneros 
interests and therefore being severed from the BAPS business, the ACCC's view 
was that the acquisition of Asciano's BAPS businesses by the Brookfield parties 
was not likely to raise competition concerns. 
113. Based on the information available to the ACCC, this aspect of the proposed 
acquisition would not result in any horizontal aggregation or increase in vertical 
integration which would have the potential to lead to competition concerns in any 
relevant market. Industry participants did not raise significant concerns about this 
issue. 
Other cross shareholdings 
114. The ACCC noted that the proposed acquisition will result in a number of cross 
shareholdings: 
 
GIC and bcIMC will each have 12 per cent interests in Pacific National, 
11 per cent interests in BAPS and 5.5 per cent interests in Patrick 
Container Terminals 
 
CPPIB would have a 33 per cent interest in Pacific National and a 9.99 per 
cent interest in Qube 
 
QIA and Brookfield would both have interests in BAPS and Patrick 
Container Terminals. 
115. A number of industry participants raised concerns about the cross shareholdings 
on the basis that they would lead to close-knit relationships between the 
Consortium parties. Industry participants considered that this would lead to co-
ordinated conduct and lessen competition between Pacific National and Qube or 
create vertical links between Brookfield's WA rail network and/or DBCT and 
Pacific National. For example, industry participants expressed concerns that 
given its interest in Qube, CPPIB would be likely to influence the operation of 
Pacific National so that it did not seek to win rail transport customers from Qube.  
116. The ACCC closely considered the concerns raised by industry participants on 
these issues and reviewed the transaction documents and shareholder 
agreements provided to it by the Consortium parties in the context of these 
concerns. Following this analysis, the ACCC does not consider that it is likely 
that any of the cross shareholdings set out in paragraph 114 above will give any 
member of the Consortium the incentive to favour another member. In addition, 
the ACCC notes that Asciano currently owns 100 per cent of Pacific National, the 
BAPS businesses and Patrick Container Terminals and as such the cross 
shareholdings listed in paragraph 114 above are materially less than the 
integration that would exist absent the acquisition. 


 
Page 24 of 24 
117. The ACCC further considered that CPPIB's proposed 9.99 per cent of Qube and 
33 per cent interest in Pacific National: 
 
are not likely to change Qube’s incentives to compete with Pacific National 
in any relevant market 
 
are not likely to provide CPPIB with sufficient incentive to seek to influence 
the operations of Pacific National to favour Qube or refrain from competing 
with Qube (even if it was able to do so) 
 
will not result in the flow of commercially sensitive information that would 
be likely to lead to a substantial lessening of competition in any relevant 
market.  
118. On this basis, the ACCC concluded that the various cross shareholdings listed 
above were not likely to substantially lessen competition in any relevant market. 
The ACCC will consider any further related acquisitions by any of the 
Consortium parties including any changes in these minority shareholdings, as 
and when they arise in the future. 
 
Conclusion 
119. Based on the above analysis, the ACCC concluded that the proposed acquisition 
of Asciano by the Consortium would not be likely to have the effect of 
substantially lessening competition in any market. On this basis, the ACCC 
decided not to oppose the proposed acquisition.  
