 
Page 1 of 7 
 
Public Competition Assessment 
28 November 2024 
Qantas - proposed acquisition of Alliance  
The ACCC’s decision 
1. 
On 20 April 2023, the ACCC announced its decision to oppose the proposed 
acquisition by Qantas Airways Limited (Qantas) of the remaining shares in 
Alliance Aviation Services Limited (Alliance) that it did not already own (the 
proposed acquisition). 
2. 
The ACCC considered that the proposed acquisition was likely to contravene 
section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the Act). Section 50 
prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, 
of substantially lessening competition in any market. 
3. 
The ACCC considered the competitive effects of the proposed acquisition in the 
markets for: 
▪ 
the supply of charter services to resource companies using midsized jet 
aircraft in Western Australia 
▪ 
the supply of air transport services to resource companies (including both 
charter and regular passenger transport (RPT) services) using large 
turboprop aircraft, midsized jet aircraft or both, in Queensland. 
4. 
The ACCC considered that Alliance is an important competitor to Qantas in both 
markets, and the removal of Alliance was likely to substantially lessen 
competition, resulting in increased prices and reduced service quality for 
resource industry customers.  
5. 
This Public Competition Assessment outlines reasons for the decision by the 
ACCC to oppose the proposed acquisition. 
6. 
Please note that this and other public competition assessments are subject to 
the following qualifications: 
▪ 
The ACCC considers each transaction on a case-by-case basis and so the 
analysis and decision outlined in one assessment will not necessarily 
reflect the ACCC’s view of another transaction. 


 
Page 2 of 7 
▪ 
As assessments are relatively brief and do not refer to confidential 
information, assessments do not necessarily set out all of the issues and 
information considered by the ACCC.  
The parties and the transaction 
The acquirer: Qantas 
7. 
Qantas is an Australian airline which operates RPT services across all Australian 
states and territories, as well as “fly-in fly-out” (FIFO) charter services 
predominantly in Western Australia and Queensland. It has the largest fleet of 
aircraft in Australia, featuring a range of aircraft suitable for air transport 
services to and from regional and remote resource locations. It also operates an 
extensive network of international air transport services. 
8. 
At the time of the ACCC’s assessment: 
▪ 
Qantas’ fleet used for resource customers totalled 80, which included 18 
Fokker F100s, 31 Bombardier Dash 8-400s, 20 Boeing 717-200s and 11 
Airbus A320s.  
▪ 
Qantas also wet-leased1 approximately 18 Embraer E190s from Alliance 
and had the option to lease up to 30 for RPT services. 
9. 
Qantas is listed on the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX: QAN). Its 
subsidiaries include Jetstar (which operates domestic and international flights), 
QantasLink (a regional airline), and Network Aviation (a charter services and 
regional airline based in WA). 
The target: Alliance 
10. 
Alliance is an aviation services company specialising in the provision of charter 
services to corporate customers, mainly resource industry customers such as 
mining and gas companies that require the transport of FIFO workers to remote 
locations. Its fleet is predominantly medium-sized aircraft with approximately 
100 seats. 
11. 
Alliance also leases aircraft to other airlines and is a major supplier of wet-
leased medium-sized aircraft in Australia. At the time of the ACCC’s 
consideration, Alliance wet-leased aircraft to Qantas and Virgin, and dry leased2 
aircraft to Airnorth. Alliance also supplies other associated aviation services, 
including the sale and leasing of spare parts and replacement engines, inhouse 
maintenance services and engineering services. 
12. 
At the time of the ACCC’s assessment, Alliance’s fleet totalled 70, comprised of 
24 Fokker F100s, 13 Fokker F70s and 33 Embraer E190s in service, with orders 
for an additional 30 E190s by January 2026. 
 
1  
A wet lease is an arrangement where the lessor provides the aircraft inclusive of crews, 
maintenance and insurance. 
2  
Dry leasing generally involves the supply of the aircraft without operation, crew, insurance, 
maintenance and engineering services.  


 
Page 3 of 7 
13. 
Alliance is listed on the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX: AQZ). 
The transaction 
14. 
On 1 February 2019, Qantas announced it had acquired a 19.9% holding in 
Alliance.  
15. 
On 5 May 2022, Qantas announced that it proposed to acquire the remaining 
shares in Alliance that it did not already own, by way of a Scheme of 
Arrangement.  
16. 
On 20 April 2023, the ACCC opposed the proposed acquisition.  
17. 
On 19 October 2023, Qantas and Alliance announced that they had agreed to 
terminate the Scheme Implementation Deed. 
Market inquiries 
18. 
The ACCC conducted market inquiries with a range of industry participants, 
including competitors, potential competitors, customers, industry bodies, other 
regulatory agencies and other interested parties.  
Industry background 
19. 
Resource companies will often have worksites in remote or regional locations, 
with requirements to fly workforces to and from these worksites at specific 
times. Such companies include some of the largest mining companies in 
Australia. 
20. 
To meet their operational requirements, resource companies need reliable and 
regular services with aircraft of the right size and capacity to efficiently transport 
their workers. Many of the destination airports relevant to the ACCC’s review 
have limitations on the size of the aircraft that can be accommodated by the 
airport infrastructure, meaning that they are unable to accept large aircraft. 
21. 
The air transport services acquired by these customers vary depending on the 
requirements of each customer. Resource customers may utilise closed charter3 
services or RPT services (either by acquiring individual seats or on an open 
charter basis which involves acquiring minimum blocks of seats), or a 
combination of these. A resource customer may choose to use RPT services 
where: 
▪ 
there is a public airport and an RPT service in close proximity to the 
customer’s worksite 
▪ 
the flight schedule meets the operational needs of the customer 
▪ 
it is cost effective, which will depend on the number of seats that the 
resource customer requires on a plane 
 
3  
Dedicated charter services involving the use of the whole aircraft. 


 
Page 4 of 7 
▪ 
seats are readily available. 
22. 
Airlines use a range of service models to provide air transport services to 
resource companies. This includes aircraft owned and crewed by the airline, and 
wet or dry leased aircraft from other airlines to provide the services. Typically, 
small and midsized aircraft are used to service resource companies due to 
airport runway requirements, route length and financial considerations. 
Other industry participants 
23. 
Virgin Australia is based in Brisbane and operates an extensive network of 
domestic and some international air transport services. Virgin Australia Regional 
Airlines (VARA) is Virgin’s regional brand and is based in Perth. Its fleet is mostly 
medium and larger sized aircraft. At the time of the ACCC’s assessment: 
▪ 
Virgin operated RPT services, and VARA operated charter services to 
resource customers using 10 Fokker F100s and 7 Airbus A320s in Western 
Australia.  
▪ 
Virgin operated RPT services in Queensland, using a combination of 
approximately 5 Fokker F70s and/or Fokker F100s wet leased from 
Alliance, together with its own fleet of Boeing 737s. 
24. 
Rex, a NSW based airline, announced its acquisition of National Jet Express, 
being Cobham’s regional services arm on 15 July 2022. National Jet Express 
operates charter flights in Western Australia (focusing on the Goldfields region) 
and in Queensland. At the time of the ACCC’s assessment, National Jet Express 
had a fleet of 8 Bombardier Q400s, 6 Embraer E190s and 2 Avro RJ100s. Rex 
also operated RPT flights in Queensland and Western Australia.  
25. 
There are also several smaller regional airlines that operate charter flights in the 
relevant regions: 
▪ 
Skippers Aviation,4 Airnorth5 and Hevilift6 operate in Western Australia 
▪ 
Pionair7 and Hevilift operate in Queensland. 
Charter alliance agreement 
26. 
In May 2017, Virgin and Alliance entered into a charter alliance agreement to 
jointly tender and supply services to resource industry customers. On 27 May 
2022, Virgin and Alliance sought authorisation to give effect to an extension of 
the charter alliance, which the ACCC assessed under the authorisation statutory 
 
4  
At the time of the ACCC’s assessment, Skippers had fleet of 25 aircraft, including 2 Fokker 
F100s and 23 turboprop aircraft with seat capacities ranging from 11 to 52. 
5  
Airnorth had a fleet of 12 aircraft including 3 Embraer E170s and 3 Embraer E190s at the 
time of the ACCC’s assessment. The ACCC understood that the E190s are leased from 
Alliance. 
6  
At the time of the ACCC’s assessment, Hevilift had a fleet of 4 ATR72 turboprop aircraft. 
7  
At the time of the ACCC’s assessment, Pionair had a fleet of 14 aircraft. Its principal 
business is in freight services, not charter. 


 
Page 5 of 7 
framework. On 5 May 2023, the ACCC denied authorisation for the extension of 
the charter alliance agreement. 
27. 
As part of the consideration of Qantas’ proposed acquisition of Alliance, the 
ACCC also considered the implications of the charter alliance agreement.  
Areas of overlap and market definition 
28. 
The ACCC’s starting point for considering which markets will be affected by the 
proposed acquisition is to identify the areas of overlap between the products 
and services actually or potentially supplied by the merger parties. The ACCC 
then considers other actual or potential suppliers of those products and services 
as well as what other products and services constitute sufficiently close 
substitutes to provide a significant source of constraint on the merged entity. 
29. 
The main overlaps between Qantas’ and Alliance’s services were: 
▪ 
Charter services to resource customers in Western Australia using 
midsized jet aircraft.8 While Qantas also provides other air transport 
services (including both charter and RPT services) using larger jets, 
Alliance did not. 
▪ 
Charter services to resource customers in Queensland using midsized 
aircraft. At the time of the ACCC’s consideration, they both also provided 
RPT services on the Brisbane-Moranbah route and this was the only RPT 
route Alliance serviced in Australia. 
30. 
The ACCC identified that there are routes in Western Australia that can only be 
efficiently served by charter services using midsized jet aircraft. Charter services 
using different sized jet aircraft, turboprop aircraft or RPT services are not 
sufficiently close substitutes on these routes. 
31. 
The ACCC identified that the demand for air transport services in Western 
Australia differed from demand in Queensland due to the different geographical 
and population characteristics. In Queensland, route distances are typically 
shorter than in Western Australia. In Queensland, there are also a larger number 
of population centres near resource customers’ mining sites than in Western 
Australia. As such, jet and turboprop services, and charter and RPT services 
compete closely for Queensland resource companies. 
32. 
Therefore, the ACCC considered the effects of the proposed acquisition in 
relation to: 
▪ 
a market for the supply of charter services to resource companies using 
midsized jet aircraft in Western Australia 
▪ 
a market for the supply of air transport services to resource companies 
(including both charter and RPT services) using large turboprop aircraft, 
midsized jet aircraft or both, in Queensland. 
 
8  
Approximately 70 to 140 seats. 


 
Page 6 of 7 
Competition analysis 
33. 
The ACCC considered that the proposed acquisition would be likely to 
substantially lessen competition in the markets for: 
▪ 
the supply of charter services to resource companies using midsized jet 
aircraft in Western Australia 
▪ 
the supply of air transport services to resource customers (including both 
charter and RPT services) using large turboprop aircraft, midsized jet 
aircraft or both, in Queensland.  
34. 
The ACCC’s review identified that Qantas and Alliance were the two largest 
suppliers of charter services using midsized jets and each other’s closest 
competitors. Data available to the ACCC shows that a combined Qantas-Alliance 
would have a market share in excess of 60% in Western Australia, and a market 
share of approximately 70% to 80% in Queensland. The ACCC found that there 
was particularly strong competition between Qantas and Alliance in Queensland 
on the Brisbane-Moranbah route.9  
35. 
Market feedback from resource customers emphasised Alliance was a vigorous 
and effective competitor. Customers commented on Alliance’s flexible and 
customer centric approach, industry-leading reputation for providing reliable 
services and its substantial fleet of midsized jets. 
36. 
The ACCC considered that competition from existing providers of charter 
services would not be sufficient to constrain a combined Qantas-Alliance. While 
Virgin would remain a sizeable supplier of air transport services to resource 
customers in Western Australia, the ACCC considered that the strength of the 
constraint from Virgin would be limited due to its limited fleet of midsized jets. 
Other suppliers, including National Jet Express, Skippers, Airnorth and Hevilift, all 
lacked sufficient scale in their midsized jet fleets to be considered strong 
competitors.  
37. 
In Queensland, the ACCC considered that there were very few alternative 
suppliers of air transport services operating in Queensland at sufficient scale. 
Data available to the ACCC indicated that alternative suppliers, including but not 
limited to Virgin and National Jet Express, each had small market shares. 
38. 
The ACCC also considered the extent to which the threat of new entry or 
expansion was likely to constrain a combined Qantas-Alliance. The ACCC found 
that there are significant barriers to entry and expansion which operate to 
prevent new entry or expansion occurring in a timely or sufficient way to 
constrain a combined Qantas-Alliance. The evidence available to the ACCC 
demonstrated the importance of scale (including fleet size), the importance of a 
demonstrated history of operating a charter service, and regulatory and 
operational challenges. 
39. 
The evidence available to the ACCC also demonstrated that customers do not 
hold a sufficient degree of countervailing power to constrain a combined 
 
9  
This route accounts for approximately 38% of all charter traffic in Queensland. 


 
Page 7 of 7 
Qantas-Alliance. This is due to the barriers to entry and expansion, such that self-
supply or sponsoring expansion is not a viable or attractive option for most 
resource customers. 
40. 
As such, the ACCC considered that post acquisition, Qantas would likely be able 
to increase prices and/or decrease service quality for resource companies in 
Western Australia and Queensland. 
Conclusion 
41. 
Based on the above analysis, the ACCC concluded that the proposed acquisition 
of the remaining shares in Alliance by Qantas would be likely to have the effect 
of substantially lessening competition in each of the markets considered. 
