 
 
1 
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
tel: (02) 6243 1368
mergers@accc.gov.au
www.accc.gov.au
Our ref: 
IM-71835 
Contact officer: 
Elizabeth Elias / Sidd Sharma 
Contact phone: 
02 6243 1104 / 02 9102 4011 
18 May 2022 
Dear interested party 
Request for submissions: Qantas’ proposed acquisition of Alliance 
Airlines 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
Qantas Airways Ltd’s (Qantas) proposed acquisition of the remaining shares in Alliance 
Aviation Services Ltd (Alliance Airlines) that it does not already own (the proposed 
acquisition). 
Alliance Airlines predominantly provides charter services to corporate customers. It also 
leases aircraft to airline clients and supplies other associated aviation services including 
spare parts, aircraft maintenance and engineering services. 
The Qantas Group also operates charter services in addition to its domestic and 
international regular passenger transport (RPT) services. Further details regarding the 
proposed acquisition can be found at Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact on competition. In particular, we are 
seeking your views on: 
• 
how closely Qantas and Alliance Airlines compete in the supply of charter and/or RPT 
services  
• 
whether there are sufficient alternative suppliers to maintain competition 
• 
the impact of the proposed acquisition on price, quality or service levels for charter 
and/or RPT services, and 
• 
the impact if Alliance were to cease providing aircraft leasing or associated aviation 
services to other airlines after the proposed acquisition. 
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 


 
 
2 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the acquisition is in section 50 of the 
Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are likely to 
have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market.  
Please provide your response by no later than 5pm on 3 June 2022. Responses may be 
emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: Submission re: Qantas Alliance - attention 
Elizabeth Elias / Sidd Sharma. If you would like to arrange a time to discuss the matter with 
ACCC officers, or have any questions about this letter, please contact Elizabeth on 02 
6243 1104 or Sidd on 02 9102 4011. 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public 
Mergers Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the acquisition. We will not disclose 
submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by law (for 
example, under freedom of information legislation or during court proceedings) or in 
accordance with s155AAA of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010.  Where the ACCC 
is required to disclose confidential information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where 
possible so that you may have an opportunity to be heard.  Therefore, if the information 
provided to the ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our Informal 
Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
Daniel McCracken-Hewson 
General Manager 
Merger Investigations 


 
 
3 
Attachment A 
Qantas 
Qantas is an Australian based airline which operates both domestic and international 
flights. Qantas provides RPT services across all Australian states and territories, as well as 
charter services in Western Australia and Queensland. 
Qantas Airways Ltd is listed on the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX:QAN). Its 
subsidiaries include: Jetstar (which operates domestic and international flights), QantasLink 
(a regional airline), and Network Aviation (a charter services and regional airline based in 
WA). 
Alliance Airlines 
Alliance Airlines is an aviation services company specialising in the provision of charter 
services to corporate customers. It also leases aircraft to other airlines, and supplies other 
associated aviation services including the sale and leasing of spare parts and replacement 
engines, plus inhouse maintenance and engineering services.  
As part of its charter services, Alliance Airlines also incidentally supplies a limited number 
of seats to the public on five of its charter routes: Adelaide-Olympic Dam, Perth-Kalgoorlie, 
Brisbane-Weipa, Cairns-Weipa and Cairns-Groote Eylandt. Alliance Airlines also operates 
one RPT route: Brisbane-Moranbah. 
Alliance Airlines has bases in Brisbane, Townsville, Cairns, Adelaide, Perth, Melbourne 
and Darwin, and is currently constructing a Rockhampton base. 
Alliance Aviation Services Ltd, which owns Alliance Airlines, is listed on the Australian 
Securities Exchange (ASX:AQZ). 
The proposed acquisition 
On 1 February 2019 Qantas announced it had acquired a 19.9 per cent holding in Alliance 
Aviation Services Ltd, for about $60 million. At this time, Qantas had indicated that it 
wished to build on its 19.9 per cent minority shareholding to ultimately own 100 per cent of 
Alliance. 
On 5 May 2022, Qantas announced that it had reached an agreement to acquire the 
remaining shares in Alliance Aviation Services Ltd that it does not already own.  
 


 
 
4 
Attachment B 
1. Please provide a brief description of your business or organisation.  
2. Please outline the reasons for your interest in the acquisition, including any 
commercial relationship/s with either of Qantas or Alliance Airlines. 
Charter services 
3. For customers: 
a. 
Please outline your organisation’s charter service requirements, and how 
you procure these services, including any mid-contract price review 
processes. 
b. 
Does your business have any particular requirements that impact the charter 
service providers that you would consider using? 
c. 
Are RPT routes a substitute to using charter services for your business? 
Why/why not. 
4. How closely do Qantas and Alliance Airlines compete to provide charter 
services? What factors are most relevant to the closeness of competition, such 
as price, capacity, route networks, aircraft quality, service quality, safety and 
reputation? 
5. Please identify the competitors for charter services, and how they compare to 
Qantas and Alliance with reference to the factors identified in question 3.  
6. For competitors: 
a. 
Please explain whether you are able to expand the number of charter 
services and the routes that you currently operate. Why/why not? 
b. 
Would a charter airline based predominantly in one state (e.g. WA), find it 
easy to commence supplying charter services in another state (e.g. 
Queensland)? Why / why not? 
7. To what extent can customers sponsor the entry or expansion of new or smaller 
competing charter service providers? 
Regular passenger transport 
8. Do you consider Alliance Airlines an important competitor in the provision of RPT 
services on the routes that it offers? Why/why not? 
9. Please identify current and prospective future competitors to Qantas and Alliance 
in the supply of RPT services in Australia. 
10. Do you consider that Alliance Airlines could expand its RPT routes in the future? 
Why / why not? 
Leasing  
11. Do you consider that Alliance Airlines is an important supplier of (wet and dry) 
leased aircraft to other airline companies? 
12. Please identify any other airline companies offering aircraft leasing services in 
Australia, and how they compare to Alliance Airlines. 


 
 
5 
13. What would be the impact on your business if Alliance Airlines ceased offering 
aircraft leasing services? 
Other associated aviation services  
14. Do you consider that Alliance Airlines is an important supplier of spare parts 
and/or maintenance and engineering services? 
15. Please identify any other companies that offer these services, and how they 
compare to Alliance Airlines. 
16. What would be the impact on your business if Alliance Airlines ceased offering 
these associated aviation services? 
Other information or competition issues 
17. Do you have any concerns with the proposed acquisition? Why/why not. 
18. Please provide any additional information or comments, or identify other 
competition issues, that you consider relevant to the ACCC’s consideration of the 
acquisition under section 50 of the Act.  
 
