FEDERAL COURT OF AUSTRALIA 
 
Australian Competition and Consumer Commission v IVF Finance Pty 
Limited [2021] FCA 1266  
File number: 
VID 587 of 2021 
 
 
Judgment of: 
MOSHINSKY J 
 
 
Date of judgment: 
14 October 2021 
 
 
Catchwords: 
PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE – interim injunction – 
application by the Australian Competition and Consumer 
Commission for interim injunction (until the hearing and 
determination of application for interlocutory injunction) to 
restrain the first respondent from acquiring an IVF business 
from the second respondent – where the Commission 
contended that the acquisition would contravene s 50 of the 
Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth) – whether prima 
facie case established – whether balance of convenience 
favoured grant of injunction – interim injunction granted  
 
 
Legislation: 
Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth), ss 50, 80  
 
 
Cases cited: 
Australian Competition and Consumer Commission v 
Allphones Retail Pty Ltd (No 2) (2011) 253 ALR 324 
Australian Competition and Consumer Commission v 
Pacific National Pty Ltd (2020) 277 FCR 49 
Australian Competition and Consumer Commission v 
Pacific National Pty Ltd [2018] FCA 1221  
 
 
Division: 
General Division 
 
 
Registry: 
Victoria 
 
 
National Practice Area: 
Commercial and Corporations 
 
 
Sub-area: 
Economic Regulator, Competition and Access 
 
 
Number of paragraphs: 
29 
 
 
Date of hearing: 
14 October 2021  
 
 
Counsel for the Applicant: 
Mr PW Collinson QC with Ms C van Proctor and 
Mr NC Dour 
 
 
Solicitor for the Applicant: 
DLA Piper 


Australian Competition and Consumer Commission v IVF Finance Pty Limited [2021] FCA 1266  
 
 
Counsel for the First 
Respondent: 
Mr AJL Bannon SC with Mr C Colquhoun 
 
 
Solicitor for the First 
Respondent: 
Gilbert + Tobin 
 
 
Counsel for the Second 
Respondent: 
Mr JA Arnott SC 
 
 
Solicitor for the Second 
Respondent: 
Herbert Smith Freehills 
 
 


 
Australian Competition and Consumer Commission v IVF Finance Pty Limited [2021] FCA 1266  
i 
ORDERS 
 
VID 587 of 2021 
  
BETWEEN: 
AUSTRALIAN COMPETITION AND CONSUMER 
COMMISSION 
Applicant 
 
AND: 
IVF FINANCE PTY LIMITED 
First Respondent 
 
HEALIUS LIMITED 
Second Respondent 
 
 
ORDER MADE BY: MOSHINSKY J 
DATE OF ORDER: 
14 OCTOBER 2021 
 
 
THE COURT ORDERS THAT: 
 
1. 
Subject to further order, until 5.00 pm on 19 October 2021, the first respondent, 
whether by itself, its officers, servants, agents or otherwise howsoever, is restrained 
from acquiring directly or indirectly any shares in, or assets of, Adora Fertility Pty Ltd 
(ACN 616 422 818), Darlinghurst Day Hospital Pty Ltd (ACN 639 120 291), 
Greensborough Day Hospital Pty Ltd (ACN 639 120 899), and Craiglee Day Hospital 
Pty Ltd (ACN 639 116 500). 
2. 
The further hearing of the applicant’s interlocutory application dated 13 October 2021 
be adjourned to 10.15 am on 19 October 2021. 
3. 
By 8.00 pm on 14 October 2021, the applicant file and serve a redacted copy of the 
affidavit of Simon Uthmeyer dated 13 October 2021. 
4. 
Costs be reserved. 
5. 
There be liberty to apply. 
 
 
 
Note: Entry of orders is dealt with in Rule 39.32 of the Federal Court Rules 2011. 
 


 
Australian Competition and Consumer Commission v IVF Finance Pty Limited [2021] FCA 1266  
1 
REASONS FOR JUDGMENT 
MOSHINSKY J: 
Introduction 
1 
The applicant (the ACCC) seeks an interim injunction under s 80(2) of the Competition and 
Consumer Act 2010 (Cth) (the Act) to restrain the first respondent, IVF Finance Pty Ltd 
(IVF Finance), which is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Virtus Health Ltd (Virtus), from 
acquiring any shares in or assets of Adora Fertility Pty Ltd (Adora) and three day-hospitals 
from the second respondent, Healius Ltd (Healius). 
2 
The application is brought on an urgent basis in circumstances where the proposed acquisition 
is due to complete tomorrow, Friday, 15 October 2021. 
3 
I should clarify at the outset the nature of the application that I am dealing with today.  By 
paragraph 1 of its interlocutory application dated 13 October 2021, the ACCC seeks an interim 
injunction to restrain the proposed acquisition until the hearing and determination of its 
application for an interlocutory injunction (which is sought in paragraph 2 of the interlocutory 
application and which would, if granted, restrain the proposed acquisition until the hearing and 
determination of the proceeding).  I am dealing today with paragraph 1 of the interlocutory 
application, that is, the application for an interim injunction.  It may be expected that the 
application for an interlocutory injunction could be heard within about a week and determined 
within a short period of time after the hearing.  Accordingly, I am concerned with whether or 
not there should be an interim injunction for a period of about one week. 
The proceeding 
4 
The proceeding was commenced by originating application filed yesterday, 13 October 2021.  
The substantive final relief sought by the ACCC is an injunction pursuant to s 80(1) of the Act 
that IVF Finance be restrained from acquiring any shares in or assets of Adora, Darlinghurst 
Day Hospital Pty Ltd, Greensborough Day Hospital Pty Ltd and Craiglee Day Hospital Pty 
Ltd. 
5 
The basis of the ACCC’s claim for this relief is set out in its concise statement dated 13 October 
2021.  In broad outline the ACCC contends as follows: 
(a) 
The ACCC contends that the proposed acquisition would contravene s 50 of the Act 
because it would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of substantially 


 
Australian Competition and Consumer Commission v IVF Finance Pty Limited [2021] FCA 1266  
2 
lessening competition for the supply of low cost fertility services in the Brisbane 
metropolitan region and in the Melbourne metropolitan region (defined by the ACCC 
as the “Low Cost Markets”). 
(b) 
In particular, the ACCC contends that the proposed acquisition would remove the 
substantial competition between Virtus and Adora for the provision of low cost fertility 
services in the Low Cost Markets and would substantially increase the concentration of 
suppliers in the Low Cost Markets.  The ACCC contends that, in contrast, in the likely 
future without the proposed acquisition, Adora would continue to operate 
independently from Virtus and compete aggressively for the provision of low cost 
fertility services in the Low Cost Markets. 
(c) 
In the alternative, the ACCC contends that the proposed acquisition would contravene 
s 50 of the Act because it would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of 
substantially lessening competition for the supply of fertility services (including low 
cost fertility services) in the Brisbane metropolitan region and in the Melbourne 
metropolitan region (defined by the ACCC as the “Fertility Services Markets”). 
6 
In paragraphs 5 to 11 of its concise statement, the ACCC sets out its contentions concerning 
the industry background as follows: 
5. 
Infertility is the inability to conceive or maintain a pregnancy to the point of a 
live birth. It affects about one in six Australian couples of reproductive age. 
6. 
There are two types of infertility: medical infertility and social infertility. The 
causes of medical infertility are varied and include problems with the 
production of sperm or eggs, the structure or function of male or female 
reproductive systems, or hormonal and immune conditions. Social infertility 
refers to single individuals and LGBTQI couples who wish to conceive 
children but are unable to do so because of their social circumstances. For 
many people suffering from infertility, the only opportunity to have children 
is with the assistance of fertility services. 
7. 
The core form of fertility services in Australia is in vitro fertilisation (IVF). 
Generally, IVF treatment refers to a series of procedures in which eggs (or 
oocytes) and sperm or embryos are handled outside of the body (in vitro) with 
the purpose of achieving a pregnancy. This series of procedures usually takes 
between four and six weeks and is generally referred to as a cycle of treatment. 
The IVF cycle starts on the first day of a woman’s period and ends when a 
pregnancy blood test is taken after the embryo has been transferred into the 
patient’s uterus. 
8. 
Fertility specialists are qualified doctors whose role it is to manage and oversee 
the patient’s engagement with the IVF process, typically following a referral 
from a General Practitioner. Fertility specialists can operate independently, be 
affiliated with a supplier of fertility services, or be employed directly by a 
supplier of fertility services. 


 
Australian Competition and Consumer Commission v IVF Finance Pty Limited [2021] FCA 1266  
3 
9. 
The supplier of fertility services provides diagnostic testing services (for 
example, genetic testing), laboratory services carried out by fertility scientists, 
nursing and administration related to the IVF treatment, and the facilities used 
for medical procedures associated with IVF treatment (generally through 
privately owned day surgeries or through existing relationships with hospitals). 
10. 
There is a spectrum of different fertility services at different price points, 
catering to the priorities of different patients. However, the industry typically 
categorises these broadly into two types of service: 
(a) 
Low cost: Low cost services do not include all of the additional 
treatments that form part of full-service treatment and patients are 
typically offered a standardised service. The service is structured to 
bulk bill Medicare eligible expenses and minimise out-of-pocket costs 
for patients. Low cost clinics often have stricter eligibility criteria than 
full-service clinics, relating to patient characteristics such as weight, 
and are more likely to share patient care among a team of specialists. 
(b) 
Full-service: Full-service is a comprehensive and individualised 
offering that will typically include a number of ‘add-on’ services not 
covered by Medicare (such as genetic screening, additional diagnostic 
testing and access to donor egg programs). Patients using full-service 
clinics are still eligible to receive Medicare rebates, however, their 
aggregate costs will often be significantly higher than the aggregate 
value of their Medicare rebates because they are paying for additional 
services. For this reason full-service fertility services are more 
expensive than low cost fertility services. 
11. 
A patient’s decision whether to seek full-service or low-cost services will often 
be influenced by their particular financial circumstances. Patients who are not 
financially constrained will generally choose a full-service provider, due to a 
perceived greater likelihood of success. Some patients choose a full-service 
provider initially, then switch to a low-cost provider after one or more 
unsuccessful cycles, because they cannot afford to continue with the full-
service provider. However, for some patients low-cost services will be their 
only chance to have a child. For these patients, full service options are not 
substitutable for low cost services. 
7 
The ACCC’s contentions concerning competition between the merger parties are set out in 
paragraphs 12 to 14 of the concise statement, which state (omitting confidential parts): 
12. 
Virtus is an ASX-listed global provider of fertility services. Virtus operates 
clinics throughout Australia. In Brisbane, Virtus operates a full-service fertility 
clinic group branded as Queensland Fertility Group (QFG). Virtus also 
operates a low-cost clinic branded as The Fertility Centre (TFC) in Brisbane. 
Virtus engages fertility specialists as independent contractors to assist in 
providing fertility services through Virtus’ clinics. 
13. 
Adora is owned by healthcare company Healius Limited (Healius). Adora 
commenced operations in Australia in 2014 and has been an aggressive low-
cost competitor rapidly building market share. Adora operates four low-cost 
clinics across Australia, including a clinic in Brisbane. 
14. 
Virtus and Adora are close and substantial competitors in the Low Cost 
Markets / Fertility Services Markets, in Brisbane and Melbourne: 


 
Australian Competition and Consumer Commission v IVF Finance Pty Limited [2021] FCA 1266  
4 
(a) 
they each have a substantial share of the relevant markets. The table 
below sets out the ACCC’s estimate of each party’s market share, 
having regard to the number of IVF cycles. While the ACCC does not 
have data for Melbourne low cost services alone, as there are few [low] 
cost providers in Melbourne, the parties’ market shares in the 
Melbourne Low Cost Market are likely to be substantially higher than 
their shares in the Fertility Services Market; 
 
[Estimated market shares omitted from table due to confidentiality.] 
(b) 
a significant number of fertility patients are likely to consider Virtus 
and Adora as alternates, in deciding which fertility service provider to 
use; 
(c) 
Virtus competes directly with Adora in the supply of substantially 
similar low-cost services in Brisbane and Melbourne; and 
(d) 
Adora’s growth in providing fertility services in the Brisbane and 
Melbourne regions has come at the expense of other providers, 
including Virtus (Virtus, being the largest provider of fertility services 
in the Brisbane and Melbourne regions). 
8 
The ACCC’s contentions regarding barriers to entry and substantial lessening of competition 
are set out in paragraphs 15 to 23 of its concise statement, which state (omitting confidential 
parts): 
Barriers to entry 
15. 
Barriers to entry or expansion into the Low Cost Markets (alternatively the 
Fertility Services Markets) in Brisbane and Melbourne are significant, with 
new entrants facing: 
(a) 
the need to build an established reputation and evidence of success; 
(b) 
significant establishment costs, including 
(i) 
the establishment of clinical facilities, including the 
establishment of laboratories; and 


 
Australian Competition and Consumer Commission v IVF Finance Pty Limited [2021] FCA 1266  
5 
(ii) 
marketing costs needed to establish a presence in an industry 
which is largely driven by word-of-mouth recommendations; 
(c) 
onerous regulatory requirements that differ state-to-state; 
(d) 
the need to attract qualified specialists, embryologists and other 
clinical staff; 
(e) 
prevalent restraint of trade clauses preventing fertility specialists from 
establishing a practice (sometimes within a certain geographical 
boundary from their previous practice) and within specified time 
periods, and competing fertility clinics with a track record of bringing 
proceedings to enforce those restraint of trade clauses; and 
(f) 
a time-lag before operations become profitable, due to the need to 
build economies of scale, especially in the lower margin Low-cost 
Market. 
Substantial lessening of competition 
16. 
The Proposed Acquisition would: 
(a) 
substantially increase the level of concentration of suppliers in the 
Low Cost Markets (alternatively the Fertility Services Markets) in 
Brisbane and Melbourne, which are already highly concentrated; 
(b) 
remove the substantial competition between Virtus and Adora in the 
Low Cost Markets (alternatively the Fertility Services Markets); and 
(c) 
significantly reduce choice for patients seeking fertility services in the 
Brisbane and Melbourne region, particularly in the Low Cost Market. 
17. 
The market share of the combined entity will be approximately [ ]% of the 
Low Cost Market ([ ]% of the Fertility Services Market) in Brisbane and 
approximately [ ]% of the Fertility Services Market (and likely higher in the 
Low Cost Market) in Melbourne. 
18. 
The Herfindahl-Hirschman Index (HHI) is a measure of market concentration 
calculated by squaring the market share of each entity competing in a market 
and then summing the resulting numbers. The ACCC’s merger guidelines 
explain that the ACCC will generally be less likely to identify horizontal 
competition concerns when the post-merger HHI is less than 2000, or greater 
than 2000 with a delta of less than 100. Similarly, the US Department of Justice 
Horizontal Merger Guidelines provide that mergers resulting in highly 
concentrated markets (with an HHI of above 2500) that involve an increase in 
the HHI of more than 200 points will be presumed to be likely to enhance 
market power. 
19. 
The Proposed Acquisition substantially exceeds these thresholds. In Brisbane, 
the HHI for the Low Cost Market after the Proposed Acquisition would be [ ] 
and the transaction would increase the HHI by [ ]. The HHI for the Fertility 
Services Market after the Proposed Acquisition in Brisbane would be [ ] and 
the transaction would increase the HHI by [ ]. In Melbourne, the HHI for the 
Fertility Services Market after the Proposed Acquisition would be [ ] and the 
transaction would increase the HHI by [ ]. 
20. 
The Proposed Acquisition would also be likely to substantially diminish the 
extent to which Adora competes to supply fertility services in Brisbane and 


 
Australian Competition and Consumer Commission v IVF Finance Pty Limited [2021] FCA 1266  
6 
Melbourne. After taking control of Adora, Virtus has strong incentives to cease 
the current aggressive price competition offered by Adora for fertility services, 
which has historically dented Virtus’ profitability. 
21. 
In the likely future with the Proposed Acquisition, the removal of a successful 
low-cost competitor that has acted as an effective pricing constraint on the 
market, would in turn reduce the competitive response from Virtus and other 
fertility clinics that supply fertility services in the Fertility Service Markets / 
Low Cost Markets in Brisbane and Melbourne. 
22. 
Any likely entry into the Low Cost Markets / Fertility Services Markets in 
Brisbane and Melbourne will not be of a sufficient scale or sufficiently timely 
to ameliorate the loss of competitive rivalry resulting from the Proposed 
Acquisition. 
23. 
In contrast, in the likely future without the Proposed Acquisition, Adora would 
continue to impose a substantial and effective competitive constraint on Virtus 
in the supply of fertility services, and in particular low-cost services. 
The present application 
9 
In support of its application for an interim injunction, the ACCC relies on two affidavits of 
Simon Uthmeyer, dated 13 October 2021 and 14 October 2021.  Mr Uthmeyer is a partner of 
DLA Piper Australia, the solicitors acting for the ACCC.  To the extent that objection was 
taken to Mr Uthmeyer’s first affidavit on the basis that the sources of certain information were 
not disclosed, this has been addressed in the second affidavit. 
10 
IVF Finance relies on an affidavit of Kate Munnings dated 14 October 2021.  Ms Munnings is 
the CEO and Managing Director of Virtus. 
11 
Healius relies on an affidavit of Mark Ellis dated 14 October 2021.  Mr Ellis is the General 
Manager – Corporate Development of Healius. 
12 
Parts of the affidavit material and other documents filed by the parties contain commercially 
confidential material.  I consider it appropriate to make confidentiality orders regarding that 
material. 
13 
The principles applicable to the present application are well established.  It is sufficient for 
present purposes to refer to the summary of those principles in Australian Competition and 
Consumer Commission v Pacific National Pty Ltd [2018] FCA 1221 at [5]-[15] per Beach J. 
14 
As noted earlier in these reasons, I am presently dealing with an interim injunction application 
seeking to hold the status quo for a period of about a week until the hearing and determination 
of the application for an interlocutory injunction.  The principles are to be applied in that 
context. 


 
Australian Competition and Consumer Commission v IVF Finance Pty Limited [2021] FCA 1266  
7 
Consideration 
15 
There are, broadly, two issues to be considered: 
(a) 
whether the ACCC has made out a prima facie case; and 
(b) 
whether the balance of convenience favours the grant of an interim injunction. 
16 
In relation to the first issue, I am satisfied on the basis of the material currently before the Court 
that the ACCC has established a prima facie case that the proposed acquisition would 
contravene s 50 of the Act, that is, that it would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, 
of substantially lessening competition for the supply of fertility services in the Fertility Services 
Markets.  (It is sufficient for present purposes to refer to this aspect of the ACCC’s case, being 
its alternative case.)  In forming this view, I have had regard to the principles applicable to s 50 
of the Act, including the discussion of the meaning of the expressions used in s 50 by the Full 
Court in Australian Competition and Consumer Commission v Pacific National Pty Ltd (2020) 
277 FCR 49. 
17 
I note, in particular, the following aspects of the evidence presently before the Court. 
18 
First, I note the evidence concerning market concentration, in particular that set out in 
Mr Uthmeyer’s first affidavit at paragraphs 59 to 66.  I also refer to the material concerning the 
effect that the proposed transaction may have on market concentration set out at paragraphs 
103 to 113 of Mr Uthmeyer’s affidavit. 
19 
Secondly, I note the evidence regarding the competition or rivalry that exists between Virtus 
and Adora as set out in paragraphs 67 to 70 of Mr Uthmeyer’s first affidavit.  Some of these 
paragraphs draw on statements made by Virtus in publicly available documents. 
20 
Thirdly, I refer to the evidence currently before the Court concerning barriers to entry in 
relation to the markets contended for by the ACCC.  This material is set out in paragraphs 71 
to 73 of Mr Uthmeyer’s first affidavit.  I note that this issue is contested in the material filed 
by the respondents. 
21 
In light of these matters, I considered that a prima facie case is established. 
22 
I turn now to the balance of convenience. 
23 
An important consideration is that settlement of the transaction is due to take place tomorrow.  
This is a substantial commercial transaction, and interfering with the time for settlement that 


 
Australian Competition and Consumer Commission v IVF Finance Pty Limited [2021] FCA 1266  
8 
has been agreed between the parties is a significant step and not to be done lightly.  As 
submitted by the respondents, the grant of an injunction, even for a few days, creates 
uncertainly and risk. 
24 
That said, the material presented by the respondents for the purposes of today’s hearing does 
not suggest that, if an interim injunction were granted for a period of about a week, there is any 
real risk that the transaction would for that reason not go ahead. 
25 
One of the matters raised by the respondents concerns delay.  It is submitted that the ACCC 
delayed in bringing the application for injunctive relief and this should count against it.  
However, I am not satisfied that there has been any substantial delay.  In September 2021, 
Virtus through its lawyers, indicated that the transaction was unlikely to proceed before the end 
of October.  Virtus was not prepared to provide an undertaking not to complete until the ACCC 
had completed a review of the transaction, but stated that it would provide notice to the ACCC 
five business days’ prior to completion.  On Friday, 8 October 2021 (last Friday) Virtus gave 
the ACCC notice of its intention to complete the transaction on 15 October 2021.  There was a 
further exchange of correspondence between the parties on 9 and 10 October 2021.  On 
Tuesday, 12 October 2021, the ACCC wrote to Virtus stating that it would commence a 
proceeding, which it did on Wednesday, 13 October 2021. 
26 
A relevant consideration is that Virtus has offered to give an undertaking to the Court to the 
effect that it will operate the Adora Fertility Clinic business separately and independently from 
Virtus’s existing operations and hold its interest in the Adora Fertility Clinic business 
separately from Virtus’s other assets.  The undertaking is subject to there being a speedy trial 
of the proceeding.  Various versions of the proposed undertaking have been provided in the 
course of communications between the parties, and a further version was provided by Virtus to 
the Court at about 1.30 pm today.  The respondents submit that the preferable course in all the 
circumstances is to refuse the application for an injunction and accept the proposed 
undertaking.  It is submitted that this course would enable a divesting order to be made in due 
course if the ACCC is successful in its contention that the transaction contravenes s 50 of the 
Act.  Submissions were also made today about the commercial disadvantages that would flow 
from the grant of an injunction and as to the various different potential outcomes at trial.  In 
my view, the proposed undertaking and those submissions are best considered in the context 
of the application for an interlocutory injunction. 


 
Australian Competition and Consumer Commission v IVF Finance Pty Limited [2021] FCA 1266  
9 
27 
Many of the submissions made by the respondents were directed to an injunction lasting until 
the hearing and determination of the proceeding, rather than an injunction lasting only about a 
week.  Further, I note that in several places in Mr Ellis’s affidavit he refers to detriment if the 
proposed sale were delayed for “two or three months” (see, eg, paragraphs 19, 20, 22).  That 
material does not suggest that there will be any significant detriment if an injunction is granted 
for a period of about a week. 
28 
A further factor that I note is that, under s 80 of the Act, the Court cannot require the ACCC to 
give an undertaking as to damages.  In this regard, I refer to the observations of Foster J in 
Australian Competition and Consumer Commission v Allphones Retail Pty Ltd (No 2) (2011) 
253 ALR 324 at [26]. 
29 
In all the circumstances, in my view, the balance of convenience favours the grant of an interim 
injunction, which will hold the status quo for a relatively short period of time, most likely about 
one week.  I will therefore make an order substantially as sought in paragraph 1 of the ACCC’s 
interlocutory application. 
 
I certify that the preceding twenty-
nine (29) numbered paragraphs are a 
true copy of the Reasons for 
Judgment of the Honourable Justice 
Moshinsky. 
 
 
Associate: 
 
Dated: 
18 October 2021 
 
 
