 
Page 1 of 18 
 
 
Statement of Issues 
16 March 2017 
 Caltex Australia Petroleum – proposed acquisition of 
Milemaker Petroleum 
Purpose 
1. 
Caltex Australia Petroleum (Caltex) proposes to acquire 46 retail service 
stations from Milemaker Petroleum (Milemaker) (the proposed acquisition).  
2. 
This Statement of Issues: 
a) 
gives the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission’s (ACCC’s) 
preliminary views on competition issues arising from the proposed 
acquisition  
b) 
identifies areas of further inquiry 
c) 
provides all interested parties with an opportunity to comment, and 
d) 
invites interested parties to submit comments and information to assist our 
assessment of the issues. 
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views 
3. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is 
in section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits 
acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of 
substantially lessening competition in any market. 
4. 
The ACCC divides its preliminary views into three categories, 'issues of concern', 
'issues that may raise concerns' and ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’. For this 
acquisition the ACCC has identified one ‘issue that may raise concerns’, which 
relates to multiple markets. 


Caltex – proposed acquisition of Milemaker 
 
Page 2 of 18 
Issue that may raise concerns: removal of a vigorous and effective competitor in 
the retail supply of petrol to consumers in local geographic markets and in the 
Melbourne metropolitan market 
5. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition may substantially 
lessen competition in the retail supply of petrol to consumers by removing a 
vigorous and effective competitor. While to most consumers Milemaker sites are 
not obviously distinguishable from Caltex company operated sites, Milemaker 
sets its own retail prices and operates as a large independent price setter across 
the Melbourne metropolitan market. At each of the sites currently operated by 
Milemaker, Caltex is likely to substitute its own pricing strategy in place of the 
pricing strategy currently adopted by Milemaker.  
6. 
Currently, pursuant to its pricing strategy, Milemaker is often quicker to lower 
prices and slower to raise prices within the retail petrol price cycle than Caltex. 
The proposed acquisition would eliminate Milemaker’s contribution to price 
competition and replace it with Caltex’s, which will potentially be less vigorous 
and less effective. 
7. 
This would have an effect on the competitive process in both: 
a) each local geographic market in parts of Melbourne and regional Victoria 
where there is currently a Milemaker site 
b) the broader Melbourne metropolitan market. 
8. 
The ACCC is still undertaking analysis to determine whether the resulting 
lessening of competition would be ‘substantial’.  
Making a submission 
9. 
The ACCC is seeking submissions from interested parties, particularly on the 
following key issues: 
a) the likely impact of common ownership of Caltex and Milemaker sites on 
retail petrol prices in the relevant markets 
b) the extent to which Caltex and other fuel retailers in the relevant markets 
respond to Milemaker’s pricing strategy by reducing their own prices or 
improving their non-price offerings. 
10. 
Detailed discussion of these and other issues, along with specific questions, is 
contained in this Statement of Issues.  
11. 
Interested parties should provide submissions by no later than 5pm on 30 March 
2017. Responses may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: 
Submission re: Caltex Milemaker - attention Cameron McKean/Suiyi Zhang. If 
you would like to discuss the matter with ACCC officers over the telephone or in 
person, or have any questions about this Statement of Issues, please contact 
Cameron McKean on (02) 6243 1006 or Suiyi Zhang on (02) 9230 9122.  
12. 
The ACCC anticipates making a final decision on 20 April 2017, however, this 
timeline can change. To stay up to date with changes to the timeline and to find 


Caltex – proposed acquisition of Milemaker 
 
Page 3 of 18 
relevant documents, interested parties should visit the Mergers Register on the 
ACCC's website at www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
Confidentiality of submissions 
13. 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We 
will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) 
unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation 
or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition 
and Consumer Act 2010.  Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where possible so that you may 
have an opportunity to be heard.  Therefore, if the information provided to the 
ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’ 
14. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well 
as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
15. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 
Timeline 
 
Date 
Event 
17 November 2016 
ACCC commenced review of the proposed 
acquisition 
15 December 2016 
Closing date for submissions from interested 
parties 
25 January 2017 
Provisional decision date extended from 16 
February 2017 to 2 March 2017 
1 March 2017 
Proposed decision date extended to 3 March 
2017 
2 March 2017 
Proposed decision date extended to 16 March 
2017 
16 March 2017 
ACCC issued Statement of Issues 
30 March 2017 
Deadline for submissions from interested parties 
in response to the SOI 
20 April 2017 
Anticipated date for ACCC final decision (subject 
to change) 


Caltex – proposed acquisition of Milemaker 
 
Page 4 of 18 
The parties 
Caltex 
16. 
Caltex Australia Limited is the parent company of the Caltex Australia Group, 
which includes Caltex. Caltex Australia Group’s business operations include the 
refining, wholesaling and retailing of transport fuels.  
17. 
Caltex’s business operations include the retail supply of fuel through its Caltex 
owned and operated service stations. 
18. 
Caltex or its agents operate 59 sites in the Melbourne metropolitan area, and set 
the retail price at those sites. There are approximately a further 35 Caltex-
branded sites in the Melbourne metropolitan area which Caltex and its agents do 
not operate, including 34 Milemaker sites (33 of which Caltex proposes to 
acquire). Caltex does not set the price at these 35 sites except at some sites 
where Caltex sets the price for diesel sold under an agent arrangement. The 
ACCC understands that in total there are approximately 850 service stations in 
the Melbourne metropolitan area. 
Milemaker 
19. 
The Milemaker business is a family run business, which has been operating for 
over 30 years.  
20. 
Milemaker operates as a Caltex franchisee but sets its own retail pricing 
independent of Caltex (except some sites where Caltex sets the retail price of 
diesel). 
21. 
Milemaker’s sites carry Caltex branding, sell Caltex fuels and accept Caltex 
payment cards. To most consumers, they are not obviously distinguishable from 
Caltex’s company-operated sites. 
22. 
Across Victoria, Milemaker owns or operates the 46 retail service stations which 
Caltex proposes to acquire.  Milemaker operates 34 sites in the Melbourne 
metropolitan area and two sites in Geelong. Milemaker operates one site in the 
Melbourne metropolitan area which is not part of the proposed acquisition.  
The proposed acquisition 
23. 
Caltex proposes to acquire some of Milemaker’s retail fuel business assets in 
Victoria for $95 million. The transaction will see Caltex acquire the business 
assets and take over operation of 46 retail services station sites from Milemaker. 
Milemaker intends to grant Caltex long-term leases to operate the fuel 
businesses. A full list of sites and their location is set out in the appendix to this 
Statement of Issues. 


Caltex – proposed acquisition of Milemaker 
 
Page 5 of 18 
Other industry participants 
BP 
24. 
BP’s business operations include the retail supply of fuel through its BP owned 
and operated service stations. BP also refines and supplies wholesale fuel to a 
number of independent retailers that own and operate service stations, including 
those that do so under the BP brand. The largest BP-branded independent retail 
chain in Victoria is BP AA (discussed below).  
25. 
The ACCC understands that there are approximately 145 BP-branded sites in 
the Melbourne metropolitan area.  
Woolworths 
26. 
Woolworths entered fuel retailing during the late 1990s, establishing service 
stations that offer fuel discounts to those purchasing groceries at its stores. 
27. 
In August 2003, Woolworths entered into an alliance with Caltex to operate dual-
branded service stations. These dual-branded sites are operated by Woolworths 
and obtain all fuels from Caltex. 
28. 
The ACCC understands that there are approximately 95 Caltex/Woolworths 
dual-branded sites in the Melbourne metropolitan area.  
29. 
On 28 December 2016, BP announced that it had agreed to acquire all of 
Woolworths’ existing 527 sites across Australia, as well as an additional 16 sites 
currently under construction. The ACCC commenced a public review of that 
transaction on 15 March 2017, following the receipt of submissions from BP and 
Woolworths. 
 Coles Express 
30. 
Coles has been retailing fuel since mid-2003, following a commercial alliance 
with Shell Australia (now owned by Viva Energy Australia Ltd), which involved 
Coles becoming the operator of franchisee-operated dual-branded Shell service 
stations Australia-wide.  
31. 
The ACCC understands that there are approximately 159 Coles-Shell branded 
sites in the Melbourne metropolitan area.  
7-Eleven 
32. 
7-Eleven Stores has been retailing fuel since the late 1970s. 
33. 
In 2010, 7-Eleven Stores purchased a large number of retail service stations 
from ExxonMobil, which significantly lifted its presence in fuel retailing.  
34. 
The ACCC understands that there are approximately 150 7-Eleven branded sites 
in the Melbourne metropolitan area.  


Caltex – proposed acquisition of Milemaker 
 
Page 6 of 18 
United 
35. 
United is an independent, Australian-owned petrol and convenience store 
company.  
36. 
United’s control of terminal facilities allows it to import fuels from overseas and 
operate in both wholesale as well as retail fuel markets in Australia. 
37. 
The ACCC understands that there are approximately 96 United branded sites in 
the Melbourne metropolitan area.  
BP AA  
38. 
BP AA is a family run business, operating service stations as a BP independent 
franchisee but setting its own retail pricing independent of BP. 
39. 
BP AA sites carry BP branding, sell BP fuels and accept BP payment cards. To 
most consumers, they are not obviously distinguishable from BP’s company-
owned sites. 
Other participants 
40. 
There are a range of other participants. The ACCC understands that collectively, 
they have approximately 113 sites in the Melbourne metropolitan area.  
Industry background 
Overview of Australia’s downstream petroleum industry 
41. 
Australia’s downstream petroleum industry consists of three broad levels – 
production and importing, wholesale supply and retail supply. This structure is 
depicted in the figure below. 


Caltex – proposed acquisition of Milemaker 
 
Page 7 of 18 
Figure 1: Australia’s downstream petroleum industry 
Refining and importing 
42. 
Petrol sold in Australia is either refined from crude oil at local refineries or 
imported as a finished product from overseas refineries. 
43. 
There are four refineries currently operating in Australia (down from eight 
refineries in 2003). They are owned and operated as follows: 
a) 
Corio, Geelong (Viva Energy) 
b) 
Kwinana, Perth (BP) 
c) 
Lytton, Brisbane (Caltex) 
d) 
Altona, Melbourne (Mobil). 
44. 
These four companies also operate in wholesale markets and are known as 
“refiner-wholesalers”. 


Caltex – proposed acquisition of Milemaker 
 
Page 8 of 18 
Wholesale supply 
45. 
Wholesale supply is dominated by the four refiner-wholesalers and large 
independent wholesalers including United and Puma Energy. The refiner-
wholesalers supply wholesale petrol to their own outlets as well as supermarkets 
and independent distributors and retailers. 
46. 
In 2013-14 (the latest data available) the four refiner-wholesalers accounted for 
over 90% of wholesale petrol volumes in Australia. 
Retail supply 
47. 
At the retail level, service stations supply petrol to retail customers. Service 
stations can be: 
a) supermarket operated sites (Woolworths or Coles Express) 
b) refiner-wholesaler company owned and operated sites (COCO), where the 
refiner-wholesaler sets prices 
c) refiner-wholesaler commission agent (CA) sites, where the refiner-wholesaler 
typically sets the price 
d) refiner-wholesaler franchisee sites, where typically the franchisee sets the 
price, but this may be influenced by price support from the refiner-wholesaler 
e) refiner-wholesaler branded but independently operated sites, where typically 
the independent operator sets the price 
f) independently owned and/or operated sites which range from large 
independent chains to single-site operations (these may be operated on a 
COCO, CA or franchisee basis). 
48. 
A given site may fit more than one of these categories. 
Retail petrol price cycles 
49. 
Price cycles are a prominent feature of retail petrol prices in Australia’s largest 
cities. Price cycles have two distinct phases: 
a) a substantial increase in prices that generally occurs across a city (the 
price increase phase). In 2016 in Melbourne:  
i. the average increase in daily average petrol prices from the trough to 
the peak of the cycle was about 21.6 cpl 
ii. the average length of time from the trough to the peak of the cycle was 
about five days 
b) a more prolonged phase of decreasing prices over the rest of the cycle (the 
discounting phase) – in 2016 in Melbourne, the average duration of the 
discounting phase was about 33 days 


Caltex – proposed acquisition of Milemaker 
 
Page 9 of 18 
Price increase phase  
50. 
The price increase phase is generally initiated by one or two of the major 
retailers substantially increasing prices at a number of retail sites in a city (or in 
some cases all of their retail sites in that city). If other retailers respond to this 
move with similar increases, then the increased price usually spreads across the 
retail networks within a city. 
51. 
Some retailers follow shortly after the leader (or ‘first mover’) raises prices, 
others ‘lag’ their price increase. This is because there is a (short-term) incentive 
for individual retailers to delay their price response during the price increase 
phase of the price cycle, thereby potentially gaining a temporary increase in 
sales and a reputation for low prices. The risk for retailers who delay is that the 
first mover (or those that follow quickly) may abandon their attempt to increase 
prices, and return their prices to the previous, lower level. The longer other 
retailers delay in following an attempted price increase, the greater the potential 
that the first mover or early followers will abandon their price increase.  
52. 
During the price increase phase, retailers tend to adjust prices across a broad 
number of sites within a city within a short space of time. In the vast majority of 
cases, prices tend to be increased to the same or a similar price point across all 
retailers and across different local areas within a city. However, in recent times in 
Melbourne, the ACCC has observed some retailers increasing prices to a level 
below what was initially set by the first mover.  
Discounting phase  
53. 
In contrast, the discounting phase involves a slower process of retailers 
undercutting and matching each other’s prices on a local basis, with price 
reductions generally spreading across greater Melbourne. 
54. 
During the discounting phase, the rate at which retailers reduce their prices from 
the cyclical peak tends to vary on a site-by-site basis depending on factors that 
include the prices of nearby sites. This has the result that during the discounting 
phase, a retailer will often have a degree of price variability at its different sites 
across a city, although the market as a whole tends to shift downwards within a 
price band.  
Future with and without the acquisition  
55. 
Section 50 of the Act prohibits mergers or acquisitions that would have the effect 
or be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
In assessing a proposed acquisition pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC 
considers the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future competitive 
environment post-acquisition if the acquisition proceeds (the “with” position) to 
the likely future competitive environment if the acquisition does not proceed (the 
“without” position) to determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in any relevant market. 
56. 
On the basis of the information currently available, the ACCC considers the likely 
scenario in the absence of the proposed acquisition would be that Milemaker 
continues to operate under ownership independent of its retail competitors.  


Caltex – proposed acquisition of Milemaker 
 
Page 10 of 18 
Previous ACCC public merger reviews 
Caltex/Mobil (2009) 
57. 
In December 2009, the ACCC opposed the proposed acquisition by Caltex 
Australia Limited of the retail assets of Mobil Oil Australia Pty Ltd. At the time, 
Caltex had a national network of 1826 branded or co-branded service stations, 
333 of which were operated by Caltex or by commission agents on behalf of 
Caltex. Mobil had 302 service stations.  
58. 
The ACCC analysed local areas where there was competitive overlap between a 
Caltex controlled site and a Mobil site. The ACCC formed the view that the 
acquisition by Caltex of 53 of Mobil’s retail sites would be likely to substantially 
lessen competition in local retail fuel markets. 
59. 
The ACCC also noted the weekly price cycles that were a feature of retail petrol 
prices in major cities at the time (and still are, as discussed at paragraphs 49 
to 54 above). Petrol price cycles pose a co-ordination problem for retailers. While 
sharply increasing retail petrol prices in the price increase phase is in the 
interests of all retailers, it is in the individual interests of each retailer to follow 
rather than lead the price increases. The ACCC noted at the time that Caltex 
regularly led price increases in some cities. The ACCC formed the view that by 
increasing the retail presence of Caltex, the proposed acquisition would be likely 
to substantially lessen competition in city-wide retail petrol markets. The ACCC 
concluded the proposed acquisition would create a greater risk of more stable 
and more effective coordinated pricing behaviour in the price increase phase of 
the weekly price cycles. 
Peregrine/BP (2014)  
60. 
The ACCC announced in May 2014 its decision not to oppose Peregrine 
Corporation's proposed acquisition of 25 BP petrol retail sites in South Australia, 
after accepting a court-enforceable undertaking. Peregrine operates under the 
trading name of 'On The Run'. The undertaking required Peregrine to divest 
three sites that it would otherwise have acquired from BP, and one of its existing 
sites. 
61. 
The undertaking addressed concerns that Peregrine’s acquisition of these sites 
could have resulted in higher fuel prices in some local areas. 
62. 
The ACCC also considered whether Peregrine's acquisition of the sites would 
have a broader impact on prices across metropolitan Adelaide, but concluded 
that any changes to pricing that may occur post-acquisition would be unlikely to 
substantially lessen competition in an Adelaide-wide market. 
Market definition 
63. 
The ACCC’s starting point for delineating relevant markets, to assess the 
competitive effects of the proposed acquisition, involves identifying the products 
and geographic regions actually or potentially supplied by the parties to the 
transaction. The ACCC then focuses on areas of activity where competitive harm 
could occur as a result of the proposed acquisition.  


Caltex – proposed acquisition of Milemaker 
 
Page 11 of 18 
64. 
The ACCC focuses on two key dimensions of substitution in characterising 
markets: the product dimension and the geographic dimension. These are 
discussed below. 
Product dimension 
65. 
Three types of fuel products are commonly sold at retail service stations in 
Victoria: petrol (including regular unleaded, premium unleaded and ethanol 
blends), diesel and automotive liquefied petroleum gas (LPG).   
66. 
At this stage of its review, the ACCC does not consider it necessary to form a 
definitive view as to the specific product dimension of the relevant retail markets. 
For simplicity, this Statement of Issues discusses the effect or likely effect of the 
proposed acquisition on competition in the retail supply of petrol. The ACCC has 
not, at this stage, identified issues likely to arise from the proposed acquisition 
that affect competition for the retail supply of diesel (at Milemaker sites where 
Caltex does not already set the price of diesel) and LPG, but do not affect retail 
petrol, therefore the ACCC’s focus has been on petrol.  
Geographic dimension 
67. 
The ACCC considers that competition in local areas is an important determinant 
of retailers’ pricing decisions, particularly in the discounting phase of the price 
cycle. In addition, the ACCC is of the view that it is also relevant to consider the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition across the Melbourne 
metropolitan area. Considering competition across the Melbourne metropolitan 
area recognises that: 
a) Milemaker operates 34 sites in metropolitan Melbourne across a significant 
number of local areas (33 of which Caltex proposes to acquire) 
b) the effect a Milemaker site may have on competition in a local area may 
transmit to neighbouring areas 
c) cyclical price increases in Melbourne typically occur across the city more 
broadly.  
Preliminary views on relevant markets 
68. 
The ACCC takes the preliminary view that two types of markets are relevant for 
assessing the likely competitive effects of the proposed acquisition. 
a) The first is the retail supply of petrol in the local areas in the vicinity of each 
Milemaker site.  
b) The second is the market for the retail supply of petrol in the Melbourne 
metropolitan area. 
69. 
The ACCC’s analysis of local areas is not limited to areas where Milemaker sites 
overlap with Caltex sites. This is because the removal of Milemaker’s pricing 
strategy and its replacement with Caltex’s pricing strategy, could impact on local 
markets, even where there is currently no geographic overlap with Caltex in that 
local market.   


Caltex – proposed acquisition of Milemaker 
 
Page 12 of 18 
70. 
While the analysis in this Statement of Issues focuses on competition for the 
retail supply of petrol, it is possible that any competition concerns may also occur 
in markets for the retail supply of diesel and LPG. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants regarding the ACCC’s 
preliminary views on relevant markets. 
Issue that may raise concerns: removal of a vigorous and 
effective competitor in local markets and in the Melbourne 
metropolitan market 
71. 
Based upon its inquiries and analysis to date, the ACCC’s preliminary view is 
that the proposed acquisition may substantially lessen competition for the supply 
of retail petrol to consumers in both local markets and the Melbourne 
metropolitan market, because it would remove Milemaker, which is a vigorous 
and effective competitor. 
72. 
The ACCC considers that retail competition in petrol occurs in local markets, in 
addition to metropolitan-wide markets. The discussion in this section explores 
how the proposed acquisition may reduce the competitive constraint imposed by 
Milemaker on other retailers in local areas, which can collectively form part of 
broader competition impacts across a metropolitan area.  
73. 
Petrol retail chains generally set individual prices for each of their sites (although 
these prices are normally set centrally rather than being determined by individual 
site managers). When setting prices at a site, retailers often identify local 
competitors to monitor. These are commonly known as ‘marker sites’. Marker 
sites are frequently located close to the site at which the price is being set. 
74. 
Accordingly, local competition is important for retail petrol prices, especially in 
the discounting phase of the price cycle. The proposed acquisition has the 
potential to lessen competition in local markets, especially, but not only, in those 
where Caltex and Milemaker currently compete. It appears that Milemaker is 
sometimes a leader in the discounting phase of the petrol price cycle or rapidly 
reduces its prices in response to discounting by other retailers and, during the 
price increase phase, follows or delays implementing price increases made by 
other retailers.  
75. 
Previous studies of retail petrol markets by the ACCC have revealed the critical 
importance of independent retailers with a discounting strategy. Consumers 
obtain cheaper prices if such retailers are present. The ACCC considers that in 
large cities such as Melbourne, the presence of more large independent chains 
with a discounting strategy can enhance price competition – both with other 
independents and with the major retailers. The ACCC’s analysis to date 
suggests that Milemaker is one such independent chain in Melbourne, with 
potentially a significant influence on competition. 
76. 
Caltex appears in general to either lead price increases or follow the lead of 
other retailers quickly. It also appears unusual for Caltex to lead prices down 
during the discounting phase. Rather, Caltex typically follows the discounting of 
other retailers with a lag. The ACCC is concerned that if the proposed acquisition 
proceeds, Caltex would implement its own pricing strategies at the sites it 
acquires from Milemaker. This would remove the contribution that Milemaker’s 


Caltex – proposed acquisition of Milemaker 
 
Page 13 of 18 
pricing strategy makes to competition in both the local markets where Milemaker 
currently operates and the Melbourne metropolitan market. The proposed 
acquisition would also reduce the number of large independent chains in the 
Melbourne metropolitan market. These changes could have a number of 
implications for consumers.  
77. 
First, it would make it more difficult for consumers to locate and purchase low-
priced petrol in the Melbourne metropolitan area. This may be particularly costly 
to consumers during the price increase phase of petrol price cycles. Motorists 
have increasing access to fuel price data through websites and apps introduced 
or modified in 2016. Usage of these tools has increased significantly over the 
last year. This transparency potentially makes lower prices more visible to 
consumers. 
78. 
Second, it would remove the competitive pressure on Caltex sites that are in 
close proximity to Milemaker sites. Nine Caltex sites have at least one Milemaker 
site located within 3km. By eliminating the competitive tension between these 
sites, the proposed acquisition may provide Caltex with the ability and incentive 
to unilaterally raise prices at these sites.  
79. 
Third, the proposed acquisition may also reduce the competitive constraint 
imposed by Milemaker on other retailers. This may occur in local areas where 
Caltex is currently present, and in areas where Caltex is currently not present. It 
appears that Milemaker may be an influential competitor across many of its sites 
in Melbourne. If Caltex replaces Milemaker’s current pricing strategy with a less 
vigorous pricing strategy, the proposed acquisition is likely to reduce the 
competitive constraint faced by retailers in close proximity to the Milemaker sites.  
80. 
To shed light on these issues, the ACCC is currently analysing pricing data for 
regular unleaded petrol sold in the Melbourne metropolitan area, among a range 
of other information. The analysis is still in progress, but so far suggests that: 
a) Milemaker generally has among the lowest average prices in Melbourne 
over the cycle 
b) Caltex generally has average prices in Melbourne that are significantly 
higher than Milemaker over the cycle 
c) Milemaker tends to lag during the price increase phase of the price cycles. 
That is, when a competitor (such as Caltex) seeks to increase prices across 
Melbourne, Milemaker is among those retailers that tend to be relatively 
slow to respond  
d) on occasions, Milemaker increases its prices in Melbourne to a cyclical 
peak level below the level set by other retailers – this appears to contribute 
to a reduction in prices across Melbourne  
e) Milemaker tends to be one of the retailers leading or quickly following 
discounting, while Caltex is generally slower to reduce its prices in the 
discounting phase. 
81. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that, if the proposed acquisition proceeds, 
Caltex would be likely to implement its own pricing strategies at the sites it had 
acquired from Milemaker. There does not appear to be any particular 
characteristics inherent to Milemaker’s sites that lead them to be priced lower, 


Caltex – proposed acquisition of Milemaker 
 
Page 14 of 18 
such that Caltex could be expected to carry on Milemaker’s current pricing 
strategy at those sites. Therefore, it is likely that the proposed acquisition would 
lead to higher prices at the target sites. 
82. 
These higher prices could be expected to be manifest in both phases of the retail 
price cycle following the proposed acquisition. The Milemaker sites would be 
more likely to lead price increases, or follow them quickly. They would also be 
less likely to be proactive in the discounting phase. Given the high barriers to 
entry into fuel retailing (especially the barriers to establishing a chain of retail 
sites as discussed below), the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed 
acquisition may lead to a substantial lessening of competition in local markets 
and in the Melbourne metropolitan market. 
Barriers to entry/expansion 
83. 
The ACCC considers that due to the difficulties in obtaining suitable sites for use 
as service stations, there is a low likelihood of a new independent chain of 
service stations entering the Melbourne metropolitan area in the foreseeable 
future.  
84. 
For example, to establish new service station sites, potential entrants may need 
to obtain regulatory approvals which could take a long time. The cost of building 
a service station, including complying with environmental regulations, can also 
be high. As a result potential entrants may be largely restricted to purchasing 
existing sites which are being sold. This may prevent the timely establishment of 
an independent chain of sufficient scale to act as an effective constraint in the 
Melbourne metropolitan area.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the above issues. In 
particular market participants may wish to comment on the following: 
a) Do the ACCC’s preliminary findings appear consistent with your understanding of 
the relative pricing position of each of the retailers identified and how these pricing 
differences manifest over the pricing cycle? 
b) Are there other factors that could explain the result? 
c) To what extent do Milemaker’s competitive strategies influence the prices and non-
price offers of other retailers? If Caltex raised the retail prices at Milemaker’s sites, 
would you expect to see other retailers’ prices rise (or not fall as quickly)? 
The ACCC also seeks the views of market participants with regard to any local areas 
within Melbourne or in Geelong or regional Victoria where the proposed acquisition 
may be likely to raise particular competition concerns. 
 
ACCC's future steps 
85. 
As noted above, the ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on 
each of the issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue 
that may be relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. Submissions are 
to be received by the ACCC no later than 30 March 2017 and should be emailed 
to mergers@accc.gov.au. 


Caltex – proposed acquisition of Milemaker 
 
Page 15 of 18 
86. 
The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
87. 
The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 20 April 2017. However 
the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Informal Merger Review 
Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose of 
explaining the ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's public 
announcement to explain its final view. 


Caltex – proposed acquisition of Milemaker 
 
Page 16 of 18 
Appendix: list of target sites 
No.  
Site Name  
Address  
Town  
Post 
code  
 
1.  
 
Caltex Footscray  
62 - 82 Gordon St (cnr Mephan St)  
Footscray  
3011  
 
2.  
 
Caltex Maidstone  
57 Ballarat Rd  
Maidstone  
3012  
 
3.  
 
Caltex St Albans  
151 - 157 Kings Rd  
St Albans  
3021  
 
4.  
 
Caltex Kealba  
Cnr Sunshine Ave & Main Rd East  
Kealba  
3021  
 
5.  
 
Caltex Werribee  
Cnr Princess Hwy & Maltby Bypass  
Werribee  
3030  
 
6.  
 
Caltex Glenroy  
847 Pascoe Vale Rd  
Glenroy  
3046  
 
7.  
 
Caltex Broadmeadows  412 Barry Rd  
Broadmeadows  
3047  
 
8.  
 
Caltex Broadmeadows  1063 - 1067 Pascoe Vale Rd  
Broadmeadows  
3047  
 
9.  
 
Caltex Broadmeadows  204 Widford St & Jacana Ave  
Broadmeadows  
3047  
 
10.  
 
Caltex Coburg North  
46 Newlands Rd  
Coburg North  
3058  
 
11.  
 
Caltex Coburg  
114 - 116 Sydney Rd  
Coburg  
3058  
 
12.  
 
Caltex Greenvale  
Cnr Mickleham Rd & Greenval Dve  
Greenvale  
3059  
 
13.  
 
Caltex Fawkner  
1243 Sydney Rd & Boxforest Rd  
Fawkner  
3060  
 
14.  
 
Caltex Campbellfield  
2 - 4 Somerton Rd  
Campbellfield  
3061  
 
15.  
 
Caltex Roxburgh Park  
124 - 130 Somerton Rd  
Roxburgh Park  
3064  
 
16.  
 
Caltex Reservoir  
137 - 141 Mahoneys Rd  
Reservoir  
3073  


Caltex – proposed acquisition of Milemaker 
 
Page 17 of 18 
 
17.  
 
Caltex Thomastown  
Cnr Dalton Rd & Wood St  
Thomastown  
 
3074 
 
 
18.  
 
Caltex Bulleen  
39 Bridge St & Manningham Rd  
Bulleen  
3105  
 
19.  
 
Caltex Doncaster East  1100 Doncaster Rd  
Doncaster East  
3109  
 
20.  
 
Caltex Ringwood East  18 Mt Dandenong Rd  
Ringwood East  
3135  
 
21.  
 
Caltex Lilydale  
346 Main St  
Lilydale  
3140  
 
22.  
 
Caltex Glen Waverley  
252 Springvale Rd  
Glen Waverly  
3150  
 
23.  
 
Caltex Wantirna South  1321 High Street Rd  
Wantirna South  
3152  
 
24.  
 
Caltex Dandenong 
South  
275 - 295 Sth Gippsland Hwy  
Dandenong 
South  
3175  
 
25.  
 
Caltex Carrum Downs  
467 Frankston-Dandenong Rd  
Carrum Downs  
3197  
 
26.  
 
Caltex Seaford  
170 Frankston-Dandenong Rd  
Seaford  
3198  
 
27.  
 
Caltex Frankston  
84 - 88 Cranbourne Rd  
Frankston  
3199  
 
28.  
 
Caltex Newcomb  
187 - 189 Bellarine Hwy  
Newcomb  
3221  
 
29.  
 
Caltex Melton  
Melton Hwy & Melton Gisborne Hwy  
Melton  
3337  
30.  
Caltex Ararat 
 
8475 Western Highway 
 
Ararat 
3377 
 
31.  
 
Caltex Sunbury  
81 - 87 Horne St  
Sunbury  
3429  
 
32.  
 
Caltex Romsey  
31 Main St  
Romsey  
3434  
 
33.  
 
Caltex Heathcote  
245 High St  
Heathcote  
3523  


Caltex – proposed acquisition of Milemaker 
 
Page 18 of 18 
 
34. 
Caltex Wahring  
 
Cnr Moss Rd & Goulburn Hwy  
 
Wahring  
3608  
 
35.  
Caltex Tallarook North  Lot 10 Hume Hwy Northbound  
 
Tallarook North  
 
3659  
36.  
Caltex Tallarook South 
 
Hume Highway Northbound 
 
Tallarook South 
3659 
 
37.  
 
Caltex Avenel  
54 Jones St (cnr Ash St)  
Avenel  
3664  
 
38.  
 
Caltex Wandong  
3272 Epping-Kilmore Road  
Wandong  
3758  
 
39.  
 
Caltex Yarra Glen  
66 Bell Street  
Yarra Glen  
3775  
 
40.  
 
Caltex Mornington  
854 Moorooduc Highway 
Mornington  
3931  
 
41.  
 
Caltex Dromana  
107 Point Nepean Road 
Dromana  
3936  
 
42.  
 
Caltex Bass  
Cnr Soldiers Rd & Bass Highway   
Bass  
3991  
 
43.  
 
Caltex Ravenswood  
4633-4673 Calder Highway  
Ravenswood  
3453  
 
44.  
 
Caltex Bannockburn  
1669 Midland Highway   
Bannockburn  
3331  
 
45.  
 
Caltex Drysdale  
331 Jetty Rd 
Drysdale  
3222  
 
46.  
 
Caltex Truganina  
 
297 Palmers Rd  
Truganina  
3029  
