 
Page 1 of 12 
 
Public Competition Assessment 
25 July 2018 
Caltex Australia Petroleum Pty Ltd – proposed acquisition 
of certain assets of Milemaker Petroleum Pty Ltd 
The ACCC’s decision 
1. 
On 4 May 2017 the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) 
announced its decision not to oppose the proposed acquisition by Caltex 
Australia Petroleum Pty Ltd (Caltex) of certain assets of Milemaker Petroleum 
Pty Ltd (Milemaker). Caltex proposed to acquire retail fuel business assets 
associated with 46 retail service stations (the proposed acquisition).  
2. 
The ACCC considered that the proposed acquisition would be unlikely to 
contravene section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the Act).  
3. 
Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to have 
the effect, of substantially lessening competition in any market. 
4. 
The ACCC considered the competitive effects of the proposed acquisition in 
markets for:  
 
the retail supply of petrol in the Melbourne metropolitan area 
 
the retail supply of petrol in the local areas in the vicinity of each Milemaker 
site. 
5. 
The ACCC found that Milemaker is a vigorous and effective price competitor in 
fuel retailing and as a result exerts competitive pressure on fuel prices in 
Melbourne. The ACCC also formed the view that post-acquisition, Caltex is likely 
to change the way the Milemaker sites are operated and as a result the 
proposed acquisition is likely to remove a vigorous price competitor from fuel 
retailing in Melbourne.  
6. 
The ACCC noted that there are a number of other vigorous and effective price 
competitors in fuel retailing in Melbourne who are larger than Milemaker and who 
compete more directly with Caltex on a local site basis. As a result, the ACCC 
formed the view that sufficient competitive pressure would remain in fuel retailing 
in Melbourne to prevent the proposed acquisition from having the effect or likely 
effect of substantially lessening competition in the relevant markets.  
7. 
This Public Competition Assessment outlines reasons for the decision by the 
ACCC not to oppose the proposed acquisition. 


 
Page 2 of 12 
8. 
Please note that this and other public competition assessments are subject to 
the following qualifications: 
 
the ACCC considers each transaction on a case-by-case basis and so the 
analysis and decision outlined in one assessment will not necessarily 
reflect the ACCC’s view of another transaction, even where that other 
transaction may involve the same or a related market 
 
as assessments are brief and do not refer to confidential information 
provided by the parties or other market participants, assessments do not 
set out all of the issues and information considered by the ACCC, nor all of 
the analysis and reasons of the ACCC.  
The parties and the transaction 
The transaction 
9. 
Caltex proposed to acquire most of Milemaker’s retail fuel business assets in 
Victoria for $95 million. The transaction involved Caltex acquiring the business 
assets and taking over operation of 46 retail service station sites from Milemaker 
(the target sites). Milemaker intended to grant Caltex long-term leases to 
operate the fuel businesses at the target sites. The transaction was completed in 
mid-2017. 
The acquirer: Caltex 
10. 
Caltex Australia Group’s business operations include the refining, wholesaling 
and retailing of transport fuels.  
11. 
Caltex’s business operations include the retail supply of fuel through its Caltex 
owned and operated service stations. 
12. 
Caltex or its agents operate 59 sites in the Melbourne metropolitan area, and 
sets the retail price of fuel at those sites (Caltex sites). There are approximately 
a further 40 Caltex-branded sites in the Melbourne metropolitan area which 
Caltex and its agents do not operate, including 34 Milemaker sites (33 of which 
Caltex will acquire). Caltex does not set the retail price of fuel at these sites 
except for diesel sold at certain sites under an agency arrangement.  
The target: Milemaker 
13. 
Milemaker is a family run business, which has been operating for over 30 years.  
14. 
Across Victoria, Milemaker owns or operates 47 retail service stations, 46 of 
which Caltex proposes to acquire. Milemaker operates 34 sites in the Melbourne 
metropolitan area and two sites in Geelong. Milemaker operates one site in the 
Melbourne metropolitan area which is not part of the proposed acquisition. 
15. 
Milemaker’s sites carry Caltex branding, sell Caltex fuels and accept Caltex 
payment cards. To most consumers, they are not obviously distinguishable from 
Caltex’s company sites.  


 
Page 3 of 12 
16. 
Milemaker sets the retail fuel prices at its sites, with the exception of a small 
number of sites where Caltex sets the retail price of diesel.  
Review timeline 
17. 
The following table outlines the timeline of key events for the ACCC in this 
matter.  
 
18. 
The total elapsed time from start to finish was approximately four and a half 
months. However, the total period net of time taken by the parties to submit 
information or documents and extensions requested by the parties was 42 
business days. 
Market inquiries 
19. 
The ACCC conducted market inquiries with industry participants, including 
competitors, representatives of customers, fuel suppliers, industry bodies and 
other interested parties. The ACCC received limited responses to its market 
inquiries, which is in part explained by the fact that consumers and some 
competing retailers could not differentiate Milemaker from Caltex. Submissions 
were sought in relation to the substantive competition issues. 
Statement of Issues 
20. 
On 16 March 2017 the ACCC published a Statement of Issues on the proposed 
acquisition identifying a number of competition issues. In the Statement of Issues 
the ACCC stated its preliminary view that the proposed acquisition may 
substantially lessen competition in the markets for the retail supply of petrol to 
consumers by removing a vigorous and effective competitor. This would have an 
effect on the competitive process in both: 
 
each local geographic market in parts of Melbourne and regional Victoria 
where there is currently a Milemaker site 
 
a broader Melbourne metropolitan market. 
Date 
Event 
17 November 2016 ACCC commenced review under the Merger Process Guidelines 
15 December 2016 Closing date for submissions from interested parties 
16 March 2017 
ACCC published a statement of issues 
4 May 2017 
ACCC decision not to oppose the proposed acquisition 


 
Page 4 of 12 
Industry background 
Overview of Australia’s downstream petroleum industry 
21. 
Australia’s downstream petroleum industry consists of three broad levels – 
production/importing, wholesale supply and retail supply. This structure is 
depicted in the figure below. 
Figure 1: Australia’s downstream petroleum industry 
 
Production/ importing 
22. 
Petrol sold in Australia is either refined from crude oil at local refineries or 
imported as a finished product from overseas refineries. 
23. 
There are four refineries currently operating in Australia (down from eight 
refineries in 2003). They are owned and operated as follows: 
 
Corio, Geelong (Viva Energy) 
 
Kwinana, Perth (BP) 
 
Lytton, Brisbane (Caltex) 
 
Altona, Melbourne (Mobil). 


 
Page 5 of 12 
24. 
These four owners also operate in wholesale markets and are known as “refiner-
wholesalers”. 
25. 
In 2016-17 around 38 per cent of petrol sold in Australia was imported. Around 
95 per cent of petrol imports came from South Korea, Singapore, India and 
Malaysia.  
26. 
The four refiner-wholesalers account for most fuel imports into Australia. Other 
importers include United and Puma Energy. 
Wholesale supply 
27. 
Wholesale supply is dominated by the four refiner-wholesalers and other 
importers. The refiner-wholesalers supply wholesale petrol to their own outlets 
as well as supermarkets, independent distributors and retailers. 
28. 
In 2013-14 (the latest data available), the four refiner-wholesalers supplied over 
90 per cent of wholesale petrol volumes in Australia.  
Retail supply 
29. 
At the retail level, service stations supply fuel to retail customers. Service 
stations can be: 
 
supermarket operated sites (Woolworths or Coles Express)  
 
refiner-wholesaler company owned and operated sites (COCO), where the 
refiner-wholesaler sets retail prices 
 
refiner-wholesaler commission agent sites, where the refiner-wholesaler 
typically sets retail prices 
 
refiner-wholesaler franchisee sites, where typically the franchisee sets 
retail  prices, but this may be influenced by price support from the refiner-
wholesaler 
 
refiner-wholesaler branded but independently operated sites, where 
typically the independent operator sets retail prices  
 
independently owned and/or operated sites which range from large 
independent chains to single-site operations (these may be operated on a 
COCO, commission agent or franchisee basis). 
30. 
A given site may fit more than one of these categories. 
31. 
Since the early 2000s, supermarket operated sites have gained market share of 
sales volumes at the expense of refiner-wholesalers. The share of large 
independent chains has grown marginally, apart from a sharp increase in 2010-
11 when 7-Eleven and Peregrine acquired Mobil’s company owned sites.  


 
Page 6 of 12 
Other industry participants 
BP 
32. 
BP’s business operations include the retail supply of fuel through its BP owned 
and operated service stations. BP also refines and supplies wholesale fuel to a 
number of independent retailers that own and operate service stations, including 
those that do so under the BP brand. The largest BP-branded independent retail 
chain in Melbourne is BP AA (discussed below).  
33. 
The ACCC understands that there are approximately 145 BP-branded sites in 
the Melbourne metropolitan area.  
Woolworths 
34. 
Woolworths entered fuel retailing during the late 1990s, establishing service 
stations that offer fuel discounts to those purchasing groceries at its stores. 
35. 
In August 2003, Woolworths entered into an alliance with Caltex to operate dual-
branded service stations. These dual-branded sites are operated by Woolworths 
and obtain all fuels from Caltex. 
36. 
The ACCC understands that there are approximately 95 Caltex/Woolworths 
dual-branded sites in the Melbourne metropolitan area.  
37. 
On 28 December 2016, BP announced that it had agreed to acquire Woolworths’ 
network of retail service station sites. The ACCC commenced a public review of 
that proposed transaction on 15 March 2017, following the receipt of 
submissions from BP and Woolworths. The ACCC announced it would oppose 
the proposed acquisition on 14 December 2017.  
Coles Express 
38. 
Coles has been retailing fuel since mid-2003, under a commercial alliance with 
Shell Australia (now owned by Viva Energy Australia Ltd). Coles sets the price at 
dual-branded Coles Express-Shell service stations Australia-wide.  
39. 
The ACCC understands that there are approximately 159 Coles Express-Shell 
branded sites in the Melbourne metropolitan area.  
7-Eleven 
40. 
7-Eleven Stores has been retailing fuel since the late 1970s. 
41. 
In 2010, 7-Eleven Stores purchased a large number of retail service stations 
from ExxonMobil, which significantly lifted its presence in fuel retailing.  
42. 
The ACCC understands that there are approximately 150 7-Eleven branded sites 
in the Melbourne metropolitan area.  
United 
43. 
United is an independent fuel wholesaler and retailer. 
44. 
United’s control of terminal facilities allows it to import fuels from overseas. 


 
Page 7 of 12 
45. 
The ACCC understands that there are approximately 96 United branded sites in 
the Melbourne metropolitan area.  
BP AA  
46. 
BP AA is a family run business with approximately 50 sites in Melbourne, 
operating service stations as a BP franchisee. 
47. 
BP AA sites carry BP branding, sell BP fuels and accept BP payment cards.  
Other participants 
48. 
There are a range of other participants. The ACCC understands that collectively, 
these other participants have around 130 sites in the Melbourne metropolitan 
area.  
Retail petrol price cycles 
49. 
Price cycles are a prominent feature of retail petrol prices in Australia’s largest 
cities. Price cycles have at least two distinct phases: 
a) a substantial increase in prices that generally occurs across a metropolitan 
area (the price increase phase). In 2016 in Melbourne:  
i. the average increase in daily average petrol prices from the trough to 
the peak of the cycle was about 21.6 cents per litre  
ii. the average length of time from the trough to the peak of the cycle was 
about five days 
b) a more prolonged phase of decreasing prices (the discounting phase). In 
2016 in Melbourne, the average duration of the discounting phase was 
about 33 days. 
Price increase phase  
50. 
The price increase phase is generally initiated by one or two of the major 
retailers increasing prices substantially at a number of retail sites in a 
metropolitan area. If other retailers respond to this move with similar increases, 
then the increased price usually spreads across the retail networks within a 
metropolitan area. 
51. 
Some retailers follow shortly after the leader (or ‘first mover’) raises prices; 
others take longer to follow price increases (they ‘lag’ price increases). This is 
because there is a (short-term) incentive for individual retailers to delay their 
price response during the price increase phase of the price cycle, thereby 
potentially gaining a temporary increase in sales and a reputation for low prices. 
The risk for retailers who delay is that the first mover (or those that follow 
quickly) may abandon their attempt to increase prices, and return their prices to 
the previous, lower level. The longer other retailers delay in following an 
attempted price increase, the greater the potential that the first mover or early 
followers will abandon their price increase.  


 
Page 8 of 12 
52. 
Generally during the price increase phase, retailers increase prices to the same 
or a similar price point across different local areas within a metropolitan area. 
However, in recent times in Melbourne, the ACCC has observed some retailers 
increasing prices to a level below what was initially set by the first mover.  
Discounting phase  
53. 
In contrast, the discounting phase involves a slower process of retailers 
undercutting and matching each other’s prices on a local basis in small 
decrements. 
54. 
During the discounting phase, the rate at which retailers reduce their prices from 
the cyclical peak tends to vary on a site-by-site basis depending on factors that 
include the prices of nearby sites. As a result, during the discounting phase, 
there will often be a degree of price variability between a retailer’s sites across a 
city, although the market as a whole tends to shift downwards within a price 
band.  
Relevant markets 
55. 
Market definition establishes the relevant field of inquiry for merger analysis. The 
ACCC’s starting point for delineating relevant markets, to assess the competitive 
effects of the proposed acquisition, involves identifying the products and 
geographic regions actually or potentially supplied by the parties to the 
transaction. The ACCC then focuses on areas of activity where competitive harm 
could occur as a result of the proposed acquisition. These are discussed below. 
Product dimension 
56. 
Three types of fuel products are commonly sold at retail service stations in 
Victoria: petrol (including regular unleaded, premium unleaded and ethanol 
blends), diesel and automotive liquefied petroleum gas (LPG).  
57. 
In this matter, the ACCC did not consider it necessary to assess the proposed 
acquisition in separate markets for petrol, diesel and LPG. All these fuel types 
are supplied at most or all sites, and it is unlikely that the separate consideration 
of each fuel type would have affected the ACCC’s analysis. 
58. 
For simplicity, the ACCC focused on the effect of the proposed acquisition on 
competition in the retail supply of petrol. 
59. 
The ACCC did not identify any major issues that are likely to arise from the 
proposed acquisition that would affect competition for the retail supply of diesel 
or LPG, but do not affect competition in the retail supply of petrol.1 
60. 
In considering future acquisitions of retail service stations the ACCC may 
consider it appropriate to specifically consider markets for the supply of any or all 
of petrol, diesel and LPG.  
                                                 
1  
In the case of diesel, Caltex already set the retail price at several Milemaker sites before the proposed acquisition. 


 
Page 9 of 12 
Geographic dimension 
Local markets 
61. 
The ACCC considers that competition in local markets is an important 
determinant of retailers’ pricing decisions, particularly in the discounting phase of 
the price cycle.  
62. 
The ACCC understands that location is an important factor in consumers’ fuel 
purchasing decisions. Consumers usually have a preference for purchasing fuel 
within a limited geographic area, normally around their home, work, or along 
their usual commute. Consumers may have a limited willingness to travel more 
than a few minutes’ drive from their usual commute in order to purchase fuel 
from another fuel retailer.  
63. 
Major retail petrol chains generally set fuel prices at each of their sites centrally 
(rather than being determined by individual site managers). When setting prices 
at a site, these retailers often monitor the prices at a number of other competing 
sites in the same local area. These are commonly known as ‘marker sites’. 
Marker sites are frequently located close to the site at which the price is being 
set, hence local competition is important. 
Metropolitan Melbourne 
64. 
While there are areas of close local competition between fuel retailers, it is also 
relevant to consider the competitive dynamics in petrol retailing across broader 
geographic markets.   
65. 
In metropolitan areas where retail petrol prices follow cycles, price outcomes can 
depend on behaviours of retailers across the city. Cyclical price increases 
typically occur across the city as a whole. As noted above, in the price increase 
phase, retailers generally increase prices to the same or a similar point across 
the city, regardless of differences in local area competition. If a price increase 
fails to ‘stick’, it is most likely because one or more major retailers decide not to 
follow the increase on a city-wide basis. These factors suggest the relevant 
competitive constraints in these circumstances may be city-wide in addition to 
local.  
66. 
Therefore, in cases such as this one, where the parties to the transaction have a 
large number of sites across a city, the ACCC will consider city-wide effects in 
addition to local effects. 
Conclusion – geographic dimension 
67. 
The ACCC assessed the likely competitive effects of the proposed acquisition on 
competition in the: 
 
retail supply of petrol in the Melbourne metropolitan area 
 
retail supply of petrol in the local areas in the vicinity of each Milemaker 
site. 


 
Page 10 of 12 
Competition analysis 
Overview of the ACCC’s concerns 
68. 
The ACCC considered whether the proposed acquisition would be likely to 
substantially lessen competition in the markets for the supply of retail petrol to 
consumers by removing a vigorous and effective competitor from the relevant 
markets.  
69. 
To this end, the ACCC examined: 
a. whether Milemaker is a vigorous and effective competitor in petrol 
retailing 
b. Caltex’s approach to petrol retailing, and the likely effect on prices at 
the target sites if Caltex acquired them 
c. the competitive discipline imposed by other petrol retailers in the 
relevant markets.  
Is Milemaker a vigorous and effective competitor? 
70. 
The ACCC analysed price data and marker site data for petrol retailers in 
Melbourne (the price data). In respect of Milemaker’s pricing behaviour, the 
ACCC concluded that in Melbourne: 
 
Milemaker’s average prices were below most other retailers 
 
Milemaker often led discounting at a number of its sites (i.e. it lowered 
prices when none of its marker sites had prices below it), or quickly 
followed the discounting of other local retailers 
 
other retailers appeared to follow Milemaker’s lead in the discounting 
phase (that is, they would lower prices at a site when a nearby Milemaker 
site was cheaper) 
 
Milemaker was often slow to follow the price increases of others in the 
price increase phase, and did not initiate price increase phases. 
71. 
Accordingly, the price data suggested that Milemaker is a vigorous and effective 
price competitor. The ACCC also analysed information including documents held 
by the parties and others. This information was consistent with our findings from 
analysis of the price data.  
Caltex’s approach to pricing, and the likely effect on the target sites 
72. 
The ACCC's analysis of the price data concluded that in Melbourne: 
 
retail petrol prices at Caltex sites are on average higher than those of 
Milemaker, and several other retailers  
 
Caltex was unlikely to lead price discounting on a site basis and usually 
only lowered prices in response to lower prices of a marker site  


 
Page 11 of 12 
 
Caltex typically either instigated or quickly followed price increases in the 
price increase phase of the price cycle.  
73. 
In this and previous investigations, the ACCC has observed persistent 
differences in pricing strategy between different petrol retailers. These 
differences do not appear to be driven by particular features of the sites they 
operate. For example, there does not appear to be a general difference in the 
features of Milemaker and Caltex sites which would explain the difference in 
pricing strategy the ACCC observed between those two retail chains. Therefore, 
when sites change hands between competitors with different pricing strategies, 
the pricing strategy for those sites can also be expected to change. 
74. 
The ACCC was concerned that, following the proposed acquisition, Caltex would 
implement its own pricing strategies at the target sites. This would be likely to 
lead to higher prices at the target sites, and less aggressive discounting. Those 
sites would also become more likely to lead or quickly follow cyclical price 
increases. 
75. 
This would remove the contribution that Milemaker’s pricing strategy makes to 
competition in both the local markets where Milemaker currently operates and 
the Melbourne metropolitan market more broadly.  
Competitive discipline of other fuel retailers in Melbourne  
76. 
Notwithstanding the finding that Milemaker’s pricing strategy indicated that it is a 
vigorous and effective competitor, the ACCC determined that Milemaker’s 
strategy is not unique. Some other petrol retailers in Melbourne actively lead 
prices down during the discounting phase of the price cycle and/or delay 
following other retailers in the price increase phase. Moreover, these retailers 
have a much larger presence in Melbourne than Milemaker: United (96 sites in 
metropolitan Melbourne), Woolworths (95 sites) and 7-Eleven (150 sites). 
77. 
The ACCC considers that the competitive process and outcomes in retail petrol 
markets are influenced by the presence of numerous retailers who regularly 
attempt to win customers from their rivals by initiating discounting or lagging 
price increases. Without such behaviour, the competitive process can stagnate, 
leading to higher prices, higher net retail margins, and inferior outcomes for 
consumers2. Any acquisition which removes such a competitor has potential to 
raise competition concerns, and in this case the ACCC considered competition 
was likely to be reduced. However, the small size of Milemaker and limited direct 
competitive overlap with Caltex led the ACCC to conclude that the effect on 
competition is not likely to be substantial. The ACCC will continue to assess 
future acquisitions on a case by case basis. 
The retail supply of petrol in the local areas in the vicinity of each Milemaker site 
78. 
The ACCC considered whether the proposed acquisition would be likely to result 
in a substantial lessening of competition in any local area where Caltex and 
Milemaker sites were both present. Competition concerns would be most likely to 
arise where Caltex and Milemaker appear to be close competitors (given their 
                                                 
2  
See for example the findings of the ACCC’s Report on the Darwin Petrol Market; November 2015; the ACCC’s 
Report on the Launceston Petrol Market; July 2016; and the ACCC’s Report on the Armidale Petrol Market; 
November 2016. 


 
Page 12 of 12 
proximity and other relevant factors), and there are few other competitors 
remaining in the area. 
79. 
Because Milemaker sites are Caltex branded, they tend to be positioned in local 
areas where there is not an existing Caltex site. As a result, Caltex and 
Milemaker’s site networks are largely geographically complementary, and there 
are few local areas in which both Caltex and Milemaker overlap.  
80. 
In those local areas where both Caltex and Milemaker overlapped, the proposed 
acquisition would reduce competition. However, the ACCC considered that there 
would remain a sufficient number of effective competitors, such that no 
substantial lessening of competition would be likely to occur in any local area as 
a result of the proposed acquisition.  
Conclusion 
81. 
The acquisition will remove Milemaker as an independent retail competitor in 
Melbourne. The ACCC considered that Caltex is likely to replace Milemaker’s 
pricing strategy at the target sites with its own, and that the acquisition is likely to 
lessen competition by reducing the competitive pressure faced by Caltex and 
other retailers in metropolitan Melbourne.  
82. 
However, the ACCC did not consider this would reach the threshold of a 
substantial lessening of competition because of a combination of the following 
factors: 
 
Milemaker controls a relatively small number of sites in metropolitan 
Melbourne, and the combined market share of the parties is relatively low 
 
there are a number of other retailers in Melbourne that lead or quickly 
follow price discounting, and delay price increases 
 
those retailers are larger than Milemaker 
 
there are few areas of local overlap between Milemaker and Caltex sites. 
83. 
Based on the above analysis, the ACCC concluded that the proposed acquisition 
would not be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in 
any relevant market. 
