 
Land of the Wurundjeri people of the Kulin Nation
Level 17, 2 Lonsdale Street
Melbourne Vic 3000
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
Tel 03 9290 1800
www.accc.gov.au
 
Our ref: IM-72752 
 
 
21 January 2025 
 
Dear Interested Party 
Re: Request for submissions: IBM's proposed acquisition of HashiCorp Inc. 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on the 
proposed acquisition of HashiCorp, Inc. (HashiCorp) by International Business Machines 
Corporation (IBM) (the Proposed Acquisition).  
IBM and HashiCorp offer various software solutions and related services on a global basis 
including in Australia, and are both active in the supply of IT infrastructure automation 
software through their products Ansible (IBM) and Terraform (HashiCorp), and in the supply 
of security software through their products IBM Cloud Secrets Manager, Verify Privilege 
(IBM) and Vault (HashiCorp). 
 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact on competition in Australia. In particular, 
we are seeking your views on: 
 
• 
how closely IBM and HashiCorp compete;  
• 
whether price levels will increase and/or service quality will decrease as a result of 
the Proposed Acquisition;  
• 
the availability of alternative IT infrastructure automation software (including 
provisioning and configuration management), and security software, and the 
likelihood of new entry; and  
• 
whether a combined IBM and HashiCorp would have the ability to foreclose 
competitors of IBM or HashiCorp.  
 
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  
 
This matter is public, and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested.  
 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market.  
Please provide your response by 4 February 2025 via email to mergers@accc.gov.au with 
the title: Submission re: IBM - HashiCorp. If you require more time to respond, please let us 
know. 


 
2
If you would like to arrange a time to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any questions 
about this letter, please contact mergers@accc.gov.au.  
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public Mergers 
Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We will not 
disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by 
law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or during court proceedings) or in 
accordance with s155AAA of the CCA. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where possible so that you may have an 
opportunity to be heard. Therefore, if the information provided to the ACCC is of a 
confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines 
contain more information on confidentiality 
 
Yours sincerely  
 
Simon Pomery 
Acting General Manager 
Merger Investigations 
 
 


 
3
Attachment A – Overview of the merger parties and the Proposed Acquisition 
 
The Proposed Acquisition 
 
IBM proposes to acquire all of the issued share capital of HashiCorp.  
 
IBM 
 
IBM is a publicly listed, US-based global information technology (IT) company. IBM is active 
in the development, production, and marketing of a wide variety of IT solutions. This includes 
enterprise IT software and systems (such as servers, storage systems, cloud, and cognitive 
offerings) and IT implementation services (such as business consulting and IT infrastructure 
services).  
 
In Australia, IBM offers IT infrastructure automation software through IBM Australia Limited 
and/or through its wholly-owned subsidiary Red Hat. Red Hat is an enterprise software 
company with an open source development model which has a number of infrastructure 
automation solutions. 
 
HashiCorp 
 
HashiCorp is a publicly listed, US-based global software supplier that provides a variety of 
software products for provisioning, securing and connecting cloud-native infrastructure 
resources to support development and operations on public clouds, private data centres and 
hybrid environments (through both an open source and paid model).  
 
HashiCorp offers its software products globally, including in Australia.  
 
Areas of overlap 
 
IBM and HashiCorp are both active in the supply of: 
 
• 
IT infrastructure automation software through their products Ansible (IBM) and 
Terraform (HashiCorp); and 
• 
security software through their products IBM Cloud Secrets Manager and Verify 
Privilege (IBM) and Vault (HashiCorp). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
4
Attachment B – List of questions 
 
1. Provide a brief description of your business or organisation and reasons for your interest 
in the proposed acquisition, including any commercial relationship(s) with IBM and/or 
HashiCorp. This will help us better understand your views.  
Questions for customers of IBM and/or HashiCorp  
2. Describe any IBM or HashiCorp services or products that your organisation uses, what 
you use it for, and whether it is in relation to a hybrid or multi cloud strategy (if other 
please specify). 
3. Describe how your organisation selects a supplier (or suppliers) for:  
• IT infrastructure automation software (including provisioning and configuration 
management), and/or  
• security software including secrets management software.  
Please identify the key factors considered and whether you would use multiple products 
for each. For example using different products for cloud infrastructure provisioning vs 
configuration and the extent to which these products are interchangeable. If you use 
Terraform, do you also use Ansible (or an equivalent software) and vice versa. 
4. Explain the process of switching providers and the ease with which this can be done for 
IT infrastructure automation software (including provisioning and configuration 
management) and security software. In your response, please consider the costs, time 
required and any other challenges involved with switching providers. 
Questions for all market participants 
5. Describe whether and to what extent IBM and HashiCorp compete in the supply of IT 
infrastructure automation software (including provisioning and configuration 
management) and/or security (including secrets management) software. Relevant 
factors may include technical functionality, scope of offerings, price, security, level of 
customisation available or customer needs.  
6. Identify alternative providers of IT infrastructure automation (including provisioning and 
configuration management) and/or security (including secrets management) software, 
and describe: 
a. how and to what extent these suppliers compete with IBM and HashiCorp; 
b. whether open source software is a viable alternative for your organisation;  
c. the cost, availability and importance of support services from the provider;  
d. how and to what extent software solutions offered by cloud service providers 
(CSPs) such as Amazon Web Services, Microsoft Azure and Google Cloud 
Platform compete with IBM and HashiCorp.  
 
Take into account factors such as technical functionality, scope of offerings, price, 
security, level of customisation available or customer needs. 
7. For customers that are currently operating or are wanting to move to a multi cloud 
solution for their business, describe what IT infrastructure automation software 


 
5
(including provisioning and configuration management) are available. Explain whether it 
would be possible to use software solutions offered by the CSPs to do this.  
8. Explain whether Ansible, Terraform or Vault are considered ‘must have’ products within 
their respective areas, and if so in what circumstances and for what cohort of customers 
would this be the case. 
9. Describe the barriers to entry to creating or sponsoring new software to compete with 
IBM and/or HashiCorp in IT infrastructure automation software (including provisioning 
and configuration management), and/or security software (such as secrets management 
software). 
10. Comment on how you expect any industry developments in the next 3 to 5 years to 
impact competition in IT infrastructure automation software (including provisioning and 
configuration management), and/or security software (including secrets management 
software). Consider factors such as the likelihood of new entry, changing customer 
needs and preferences, any relevant emerging technologies and development of 
software solutions from the CSPs.  
11. Describe how customers and competitors are likely to respond if following the Proposed 
Acquisition IBM sought to increase prices or lower service quality.  
12. In what ways and to what extent, if any, would the proposed acquisition be likely to affect 
the incentives for IBM to cross-sell or bundle Ansible and Terraform, or Verify Privilege 
and Vault. 
Other information 
13. Please provide any additional information or comments that you consider relevant to the 
ACCC’s consideration of the Proposed Acquisition. 
