 
 
1 
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
tel: (02) 6243 1368
mergers@accc.gov.au
www.accc.gov.au
Our ref: 
IM-70966 
 
Contact officer: 
Will Sommers / Braeden Smith 
Contact phone: 
(03) 9910 9444 / (02) 6243 4936 
29 January 2021 
Dear Interested Party 
Re:  Request for submissions: NAB’s proposed acquisition of 86 400 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
the proposed acquisition of 86 400 by NAB (the proposed acquisition). 
86 400 is an internet only or digital bank which operates through a smartphone application 
only and does not have any physical branches. 86 400 provides its customers with 
transaction and savings accounts and home loans. NAB is a major Australian full service 
bank. Further details are provided at Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact on competition. In particular, we are 
seeking your views on: 
• 
whether 86 400 plays a critical role in the market by providing competitive products 
or better service and infrastructure to customers not otherwise available 
• 
whether 86 400 is uniquely placed to provide significant future competition to the 
major banks 
• 
the likelihood of other banks with a similar business model and product offering, or 
other non-bank lenders, entering and expanding in Australia 
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
Please provide your response by 5pm on 26 February 2021 via email with the title 
Submission re: NAB/86400 - attention Will Sommers/Braeden Smith.  
If you would like to arrange a time to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any 


 
2 
questions about this letter, please contact Will Sommers on (03) 9910 9444 or Braeden 
Smith on (02) 6243 4936. 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public 
Mergers Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We will not 
disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by 
law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or during court proceedings) or 
in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010.  Where the 
ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, the ACCC will notify you in advance 
where possible so that you may have an opportunity to be heard.  Therefore, if the 
information provided to the ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our 
Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
Sharon Deano 
Executive Director  
Merger Investigations 


 
 
3 
Attachment A 
 
NAB 
 
NAB is an ASX listed diversified financial services organisation (ASX:NAB). NAB’s core 
retail banking business operates under the NAB brand and includes hundreds of physical 
branches across Australia, as well as online browser-based banking facilities and 
smartphone applications. UBank is NAB’s online only bank brand. NAB offers a broad 
range of financial products and services, including transaction and savings accounts, and 
business and home loans. 
 
86 400 
 
86 400 is a digital bank headquartered in Sydney. 86 400 does not operate a physical 
branch network, or online browser-based banking facilities, with the key customer interface 
being the 86 400 smartphone application. 86 400 has offered online transaction and 
savings accounts since September 2019, and launched a home loan product sold through 
a network of selected brokers in November 2019. 86 400 is majority owned by Cuscal Ltd, 
one of Australia’s largest independent payments providers. 
 
 


 
 
4 
Attachment B 
1. Please provide a brief description of your business or organisation.  
2. Please outline the reasons for your interest in the proposed acquisition, including 
any commercial relationship/s with either of NAB or 86 400. 
Competition provided by online only/digital banks and non-bank lenders 
3. Please identify and describe alternative online only/digital banks (or neobanks) 
and non-bank lenders to 86 400.  
a. In your description of alternatives, please describe their product ranges 
(including deposits and home loan products), scale, brand recognition, 
product quality or service standards. 
b. Please describe the extent to which the alternatives identified compete 
with the major banks, for example by way of price discounting, 
promotional activity, product innovation and offering (including deposits 
and home loan products), or investment in new technologies.  
4. Are the products or services that online only/digital banks and non-bank lenders 
offer different from traditional banks? And has their presence, with particular 
consideration to 86 400, impacted competition for the provision of banking 
services? 
5. Do you consider 86 400 is uniquely placed to provide significant future 
competition to the major banks? If so, please explain why.  
New entry 
6. Please describe the difficulties facing an online only/digital bank entering and/or 
expanding in Australia, and becoming profitable. Where possible, please 
comment on the time and costs to build a digital banking platform, obtain a 
banking licence and build a brand to attract customers. 
7. Please describe the difficulties in creating a profitable consumer lending/deposit 
business. In your answer, please consider the effect of regulatory requirements 
on the prospects of successful entry by an online only/digital bank or non-bank 
lender, for example, the Prudential Capital Requirements for authorised deposit-
taking institutions set by the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority (APRA). 
8. Please comment on the effects of economies of scale on operating as an online 
only/digital bank or non-bank lender, and the minimum efficient scale of market 
entry. 
9. Please identify any potential new entrants in the market and address the 
likelihood of successful new entry. 
Other  
10. Please provide any additional information or comments, or identify other 
competition issues, that you consider relevant to the ACCC’s consideration of the 
proposed acquisition.  
 
