 
Page 1 of 17 
 
Statement of Issues 
12 December 2019 
Cengage proposed merger with 
 McGraw-Hill  
Purpose 
1. 
Educational publishing businesses Cengage Learning Holdings II, Inc 
(Cengage) and McGraw Hill Education, Inc (McGraw-Hill) propose to merge 
their global businesses (the proposed merger). Cengage and McGraw-Hill both 
operate educational publishing businesses in Australia through various 
subsidiaries. 
2. 
This Statement of Issues: 
 
gives the preliminary views of the Australian Competition and Consumer 
Commission (ACCC) on competition issues arising from the proposed 
merger;  
 
identifies areas of further inquiry; and 
 
invites interested parties to submit comments and information to assist our 
assessment of the issues. 
3. 
Statements of Issues do not refer to confidential information provided by the 
parties or other market participants and therefore may not necessarily represent 
a full articulation of the ACCC’s preliminary position. 
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views 
4. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is 
set out in section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. In general 
terms, section 50 prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to 
have the effect, of substantially lessening competition in any market. 
5. 
The ACCC divides its preliminary views into three categories, 'issues of concern', 
'issues that may raise concerns' and ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’. In this 
Statement of Issues there is one “issue of concern”, one “issue that may raise 
concerns” and two “issues that are unlikely to raise concerns”.  


Cengage proposed merger with McGraw-Hill 
 
Page 2 of 17 
Issue of concern – reduction in the number of major publishers in higher 
education publishing in Australia  
6. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed merger would substantially lessen 
competition in the supply of higher education publishing in Australia.  
7. 
Higher education publishing in Australia is highly concentrated, and there are 
very few firms that operate on a scale comparable to Cengage and McGraw-Hill. 
Most other competitors are much smaller and are only active in a narrow range 
of disciplines. Further, the barriers associated with new entry or expansion 
appear to be high.  
Issue that may raise concern – loss of competition for the acquisition of authors’ 
rights for higher education content  
8. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed merger may substantially lessen 
competition in the acquisition of authors’ rights for higher education content in 
Australia. 
9. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed merger will further reduce the 
already limited number of major publishers with whom higher education authors 
can publish their works. This will likely enhance the merged entity’s bargaining 
power with authors and increase the merged entity’s ability and incentives to 
impose onerous terms in contracts with authors.   
Issues unlikely to raise concerns – supply of primary education publishing and 
secondary education publishing 
10. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that it is not likely that the proposed merger will 
raise significant competition issues in respect of the supply of primary education 
publishing.   
11. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that it is not likely that the proposed merger will 
raise significant competition issues in respect of the supply of secondary 
education publishing. 
Making a submission 
12. 
The ACCC is seeking submissions from interested parties, particularly on the 
following key issues: 
 
whether there is a market for publishing in higher education (incorporating 
university and Vocational Education and Training (VET)) or whether there 
are separate markets for publishing in university and vocational education, 
or separate markets for publishing in individual higher education disciplines 
(for example, psychology or accounting) or courses (for example, 
introductory psychology, management accounting or financial accounting),  
 
whether there is a market for the acquisition of authors’ rights in higher 
education (incorporating university and VET) or whether there are separate 
markets for the acquisition of authors’ rights in university and vocational 
education or separate markets for the acquisition of authors’ rights for 
individual higher education disciplines or courses,  


Cengage proposed merger with McGraw-Hill 
 
Page 3 of 17 
 
the extent to which a merged Cengage-McGraw-Hill would be constrained 
from reducing the quality of its products, eliminating titles or increasing its 
actual or effective prices by remaining publishers of higher education 
materials, 
 
the height of barriers to entry in higher education publishing,  
 
the height of barriers to expansion into higher education publishing in 
particular disciplines,  
 
the ease with which authors can switch publishers, or may be able to do so 
post-merger, and 
 
the extent to which a merged Cengage-McGraw-Hill would be constrained 
from lowering royalties or otherwise adversely changing terms of its 
contracts with authors. 
13. 
Detailed discussion of these and other issues, along with specific questions, is 
contained in this Statement of Issues.  
14. 
Interested parties should provide submissions by no later than 5pm on 
20 January 2020. Responses may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the 
title: Submission re: Cengage/McGraw-Hill - attention Nicholas Wellfare/Tash 
Venaik. If you would like to discuss the matter with ACCC officers over the 
telephone or in person, or have any questions about this Statement of Issues, 
please contact Nicholas Wellfare on 02 9230 3813 or Tash Venaik on 02 9102 
4084.  
15. 
The ACCC anticipates making a final decision on 12 March 2020, however, this 
timeline can change. To keep abreast of possible changes in relation to timing 
and to find relevant documents, interested parties should visit the Mergers 
Register on the ACCC's website at www.accc.gov.au/publicregisters/mergers-
registers/public-informal-merger-reviews. 
Confidentiality of submissions 
16. 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed merger. We will 
not disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) unless 
compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or 
during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition 
and Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where possible so that you may 
have an opportunity to be heard. Therefore, if the information provided to the 
ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’ 
17. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed merger, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing attention 
to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well as 
identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
18. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 


Cengage proposed merger with McGraw-Hill 
 
Page 4 of 17 
the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 
Timeline 
Date 
Event 
2 September 2019 
ACCC commenced review of the proposed merger 
12 December 2019 
ACCC publication of Statement of Issues 
20 January 2020 
Deadline for submissions from interested parties in 
response to this Statement of Issues 
12 March 2020 
Anticipated date for ACCC final decision  
 
The parties 
Cengage 
19. 
Cengage is an education and technology company based in the United States of 
America (USA). It publishes educational materials including textbooks, digital 
solutions and supplementary educational materials and adapts its products for 
use in approximately 170 countries.  
20. 
In Australia, Cengage publishes educational resources for primary education 
(through its Nelson Primary brand), secondary education (Nelson Secondary), 
and higher education, as well as research resources for libraries (GALE).  
21. 
In the USA, Cengage offers a subscription service called ‘Cengage Unlimited’. 
This platform provides students with access to all of Cengage’s textbooks online 
and other online resources, for one price. The subscription offers complete 
access to over 22,000 products including e-books, online homework access 
codes and study guides. Cengage Unlimited is not currently available in 
Australia.   
McGraw-Hill 
22. 
McGraw-Hill is a publisher of educational services, including digital learning 
tools, digital platforms, custom publishing solutions and traditional printed 
textbooks. It is based in the USA with operations in more than 100 countries.  
23. 
In Australia, McGraw-Hill publishes educational resources for primary education, 
higher education (including VET) and for professional use (in business, clinical 
medicine, allied health and psychology).   


Cengage proposed merger with McGraw-Hill 
 
Page 5 of 17 
Industry background 
24. 
Publishing in Australia has traditionally been considered as either:  
 
“trade” publishing (also known as consumer publishing) which includes 
fiction and non-fiction books and children’s books; or  
 
“educational” publishing. 
25. 
Cengage and McGraw-Hill are not involved in trade publishing, and the ACCC 
has only considered educational publishing in its review of this matter. 
26. 
Educational publishers develop and publish materials for teachers and students 
for use within the primary, secondary and higher education (university and 
vocational) segments. While the exact products offered differ depending on the 
publisher, materials generally include textbooks (both printed and digital), 
teacher resources and interactive or adaptive digital resources (to support 
student learning or allow teachers to produce customised resources). 
27. 
Unless otherwise indicated, the remainder of the industry background described 
below relates to higher education publishing.  
Other industry participants 
Major multi-discipline publishers 
28. 
In addition to Cengage and McGraw-Hill, Pearson and Wiley are the two other 
major publishers that publish materials for use across a broad number of 
disciplines in higher education.  
29. 
Pearson is an education company based in the United Kingdom (UK) with over 
30,000 employees in more than 70 countries. In Australia, Pearson publishes 
primary, secondary and higher education resources, as well as talent and clinical 
assessments, soft skills training and English language teaching and assessment. 
In higher education, Pearson publishes in a number of disciplines including 
business, economics, finance, accounting, nursing, science, language studies, 
medical texts and engineering.  
30. 
John Wiley & Sons Inc (known as Wiley) is a global publishing company that 
also produces online scientific, technical, medical and scholarly journals, books 
and other digital content. In Australia, Wiley publishes secondary and higher 
education resources. In higher education, Wiley publishes in a number of 
disciplines including business, accounting, finance, psychology, health, 
education, science, engineering and maths.  
Smaller multi-discipline publishers  
31. 
Other multi-discipline publishers that are smaller in size include Cambridge 
University Press, Oxford University Press, Macmillan and Taylor & Francis.  
32. 
Cambridge University Press is made up of three market facing publishing 
groups: Academic, Cambridge English and Education. In Australia, Cambridge 
University Press publishes in secondary and higher education. In higher 
education, Cambridge University Press publishes in a number of disciplines 
including economics, psychology, education, engineering, language and maths. 


Cengage proposed merger with McGraw-Hill 
 
Page 6 of 17 
33. 
Oxford University Press is based in the UK and produces dictionaries, English 
language teaching materials, children’s books, journals, scholarly monographs, 
higher education textbooks and schoolbooks. In Australia, it operates as Oxford 
University Press’ Australian and New Zealand subsidiary. In higher education, 
Oxford University Press publishes in a number of disciplines including 
psychology, education, business, and medicine. 
34. 
Macmillan operates in more than 80 countries. In Australia, it operates through 
Macmillan Publishers Australia and publishes secondary and higher education 
materials. In higher education, Macmillan publishes in a number of disciplines 
including psychology, science and finance. 
35. 
Taylor & Francis is based in the UK. In higher education in Australia, Taylor & 
Francis publishes in a number of disciplines including business, economics, 
education, language, psychology, and finance. 
Specialist publishers 
36. 
There are also a number of other publishers that specialise in publishing for a 
single or narrow range of specific disciplines (for example, law or medicine), 
such as Elsevier, LexisNexis and Thomson Reuters.  
37. 
Elsevier is a global information analytics business that helps science and 
healthcare institutions and professionals with web-based, digital solutions. 
Elsevier Australia Health Science Books are published in various disciplines 
including dentistry, health professions, medicine, nursing, midwifery, and 
veterinary. 
38. 
LexisNexis publishes legal textbooks and provides customers computer-assisted 
legal research as well as business research, risk management services and 
analytics. 
39. 
Thomson Reuters is a global publishing company specialising in legal, tax, and 
accounting. Thomson Reuters Legal Australia provides legal research and 
practice management solutions and products for students, higher education 
institutions and professionals. 
40. 
There are also a large number of smaller niche or specialist publishers operating 
in Australia. 
Content and engagement with authors 
41. 
The process for developing content for higher education publishing differs 
between publishers: 
 
most publishers identify and engage authors in Australia (often academics 
or lecturers) to write or contribute to their materials,  
 
some publishers employ in-house writers (although the ACCC understands 
this is less common), and 
 
some publishers use content produced overseas. This may involve selling a 
replica text in Australia, or adapting an overseas text for use in Australia 
(for example, by using Australian examples or adapting it to suit Australian 
standards). 


Cengage proposed merger with McGraw-Hill 
 
Page 7 of 17 
42. 
An author is usually an academic or lecturer who is a subject matter expert. 
Authors are typically paid through royalties from the sale of the book. The ACCC 
understands the author is usually also contracted to write new editions and to 
update materials. It is also common practice for there to be exclusivity clauses in 
these contracts for the benefit of the publisher. However, authors may be able to 
write for other publishers in the same discipline as long as the texts are not in 
direct competition. For example, an author may be able to write a first year 
undergraduate financial accounting textbook with one publisher and write a 
second year management accounting textbook with another publisher. 
Choice of text 
43. 
The ultimate consumers of the products are predominantly higher education 
students of universities or vocational education institutions. However, the 
purchasing decisions of both resellers (as to what to stock), and students (as to 
what to buy) are directly influenced by the lecturers who are responsible for 
setting texts for the courses. From market inquiries, the ACCC understands that 
the process is generally as follows: 
 
44. 
Some market participants have indicated that there is no real ability for either the 
reseller or the student to “shop around” for an alternative book about the same 
subject matter. The only product that will be useful to the student, or sell well for 
the reseller, is the book prescribed for the course by the lecturer.  
45. 
Market feedback from lecturers has generally been that quality content and 
suitability for a course is the most important factor in choosing a book. The 
importance of the price to be paid by students to purchase the book varies 
amongst lecturers, and some feedback also indicated the author of the textbook 
may be an important factor to lecturers in setting the text. 
46. 
Market feedback has indicated that some students acquire second hand books 
or unlicensed digital copies of education materials, and some students either 
borrow prescribed materials or rely solely on lectures or free materials provided 
by the educational institution. 
Digital products 
47. 
The provision of higher education materials has recently changed with the 
expansion of digital products. This has led to changes in both the form and 
delivery of products. 
48. 
In addition to traditional printed textbooks, some publishers now also offer 
textbooks in electronic form (i.e. eBooks), as well as interactive digital products 
that may be standalone, or complementary to textbooks. 


Cengage proposed merger with McGraw-Hill 
 
Page 8 of 17 
49. 
In terms of delivery, digital products are able to be purchased online directly from 
publishers. Overseas, publishers (including Cengage) have introduced delivery 
via subscription, providing subscribers (students or academics) with access to all 
of a publisher’s digital textbooks for one subscription fee. As noted above, 
Cengage operates a digital subscription service through its Cengage Unlimited 
platform in the USA. Market feedback has also suggested that in Australia, 
universities are starting to partner with publishers to develop digital materials. 
The proposed transaction 
50. 
Educational publishing businesses Cengage and McGraw-Hill propose to merge 
their global publishing businesses.  
51. 
In Australia, Cengage carries on business through Cengage Learning Australia 
Pty Limited, McGraw-Hill carries on business in Australia through McGraw-Hill 
Australia Pty Ltd.  
Market definition 
52. 
The ACCC’s starting point for defining relevant markets to assess the 
competitive effects of the proposed acquisition involves identifying the products 
actually or potentially supplied by the merger parties. The ACCC then considers 
what other products constitute sufficiently close substitutes to provide a 
significant source of constraint on the merged entity.  
53. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that there are markets for: 
 
the supply of higher education publishing in Australia, and  
 
the acquisition of authors’ rights for higher education content in Australia. 
54. 
Issues relating to demand and supply side substitution, and the geographic 
scope of the markets are explored under the competition issue headings below. 
55. 
In considering the relevant markets, the ACCC considers that demand from 
those purchasing the products (students) is heavily influenced by lecturers or 
course coordinators who are responsible for setting the textbooks or other 
educational materials to be used by students.  
Market for the supply of higher education publishing in Australia 
Geographic scope  
56. 
The ACCC considers the geographic scope of the relevant markets is likely to be 
national. 
57. 
The parties both publish and supply educational materials nationally. Products 
are generally able to be purchased online from anywhere in Australia, and either 
physically delivered (in the case of a printed textbook), or downloaded or 
otherwise accessed electronically. Products are also available in bricks and 
mortar bookstores, primarily on campus at universities around Australia. While 
some materials contain state or territory specific information (for example to take 
account of local laws or standards), it is likely that lecturers will be able to find 
appropriate substitutes elsewhere in Australia.  


Cengage proposed merger with McGraw-Hill 
 
Page 9 of 17 
Product scope 
58. 
In Australia, the parties overlap in the supply of educational publishing, with a 
focus on higher education publishing. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that 
competition effects should be considered in the context of higher education 
publishing (incorporating both university and VET). However the ACCC is 
continuing to consider whether there are separate product markets for 
educational publishing in either university or VET, or in individual academic 
disciplines. 
Demand side substitutability 
59. 
On the demand side, the ACCC considers that faced with a price increase or 
drop in quality of the materials they currently use, lecturers are likely to only look 
for alternative textbooks they consider suitable to their particular course (for 
example, an introductory accounting lecturer would only look for alternative 
introductory accounting textbooks).  
60. 
In assessing the competitive implications of a merger, the ACCC considers both 
the range of available or potentially available substitutes in each relevant market 
and the relative intensity of rivalry between different products within those 
markets. The existence of comparable alternatives to the merged entity that are 
available in plentiful supply to the entire market can, in the absence of 
coordinated effects, indicate that a merger is unlikely to substantially lessen 
competition.1 
61. 
The ACCC is considering whether the following sources of educational 
resources are alternatives to textbooks in higher education:  
 
Open Education Resources (OER): are freely accessible digital tools and 
resources which are produced by individuals or professionals. Market 
feedback has been mixed on whether OER is an alternative for textbooks, 
with some market participants noting that there is only a limited range of 
resources available for the Australian context and that content tends to be 
written for specific courses at specific educational institutions without being 
generic enough to be used widely.  
 
Second hand books: these are sold by retailers and in private transactions 
through platforms like StudentVIP. Second hand books tend to be sold at a 
lower price than new textbooks but purchasers are unable to access digital 
content associated with the print version. Second hand books will likely be 
demanded by students if a newer edition of the text is not set by the 
lecturer. Therefore, publishers might seek to undermine the attractiveness 
of second hand books by updating editions frequently.  
 
Rentals: students can also rent textbooks through companies like Zookal, 
enabling them to be able to keep the textbook for the entire semester.  
62. 
Market participants also noted that it is common for lecturers to avoid setting a 
textbook for the courses they teach but instead set a variety of reading or 
articles.  
                                                 
 
1 ACCC, Merger Guidelines 2008 (updated 2017), paragraph 7.38. 


Cengage proposed merger with McGraw-Hill 
 
Page 10 of 17 
63. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that although the above resources might be 
conceivably considered as alternatives to students purchasing a new textbook, 
they are not close substitutes to new textbooks in most cases. Although OER 
could cover content that is similar in nature to that contained in a textbook, it is 
unlikely to be similar enough to serve the same functional purpose. Similarly, 
second hand books and rental books are not uniformly available in large 
numbers, and students are often inhibited from using second hand textbooks 
due to publishers making and lecturers prescribing revised editions. In addition, it 
is becoming common for lecturers to prescribe digital books, and it is not 
possible to obtain a second-hand digital textbook.   
Supply side substitutability 
64. 
On the supply side, publishers supplying materials for one course in a particular 
discipline are likely to be able to supply materials for another course in the same 
discipline relatively easily – at least with respect to mainstream undergraduate 
material. Market feedback to date supports this presumption, as does the fact 
that the narrowest area of publishing specialisation appears to be by discipline 
(rather than by specific courses).  
65. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that publishers active in a particular higher 
education discipline would likely find it easier to begin publishing in a new 
discipline than either publishers with no involvement in higher education or new 
entrants to publishing.  
66. 
Higher education publishing is dominated by four large firms who are active 
across many disciplines (Cengage, Pearson, McGraw-Hill and John Wiley). This 
suggests that that there may be complementarities or economies of scope on the 
supply-side of higher education publishing available when publishing materials 
for different disciplines. This may result from publishers’ ability to share 
information and resources between disciplines required for: 
 
the acquisition of authors’ rights – while authors will differ across 
disciplines, the expertise involved in identifying suitable topics and authors 
and in negotiating author contracts may share commonalities, 
 
the production (for example, editing, typesetting, etc) and distribution of 
hardcopy and digital texts to outlets such as bookshops, higher education 
institutions and digital vendors, and 
 
the promotion and marketing of materials to course coordinators and 
lecturers at higher education institutions, and subsequently to higher 
education students. 
67. 
On the other hand, many single discipline specialist publishers exist, which 
suggests that the benefits of publishing across multiple disciplines are not so 
significant that barriers to expansion into new disciplines are insignificant.  
68. 
Preliminary market feedback is that larger higher education publishers find it 
significantly easier to move into different disciplines than do smaller and more 
specialised publishers. Barriers to entry are discussed further at paragraph 85 to 
88. 


Cengage proposed merger with McGraw-Hill 
 
Page 11 of 17 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary views about 
the definition of the relevant market. In particular, market participants may wish to 
comment on the following:  
 
How difficult would it be for an existing publisher to expand into publishing either 
university or vocational education materials if they do not currently publish in either 
of these areas? Would such a publisher find it easier to succeed than a firm with 
no involvement in publishing?   
 
How difficult would it be for an existing higher education publisher to expand into 
publishing in higher education disciplines in which they do not currently publish? 
Does this depend on how large or diversified the publisher is already? What 
efficiencies or other benefits exist as a result of their existing publishing 
operations? Are some disciplines likely to be more difficult to expand into than 
others? If so, why? 
 
When lecturers choose education materials to set for a specific higher education 
course (this includes university or VET courses), what factors and alternatives are 
considered? For example, to what extent do lecturers consider the price and 
quality of the materials and, more broadly, whether students are likely to acquire 
the materials? How important is it to have Australian-authored or adapted content? 
Please provide examples if possible. 
 
To what extent do lecturers and students consider instructor-created materials, 
OER, rentals and second hand books, as well as other materials distributed via the 
“white space” (including piracy of print and digital materials) viable alternatives to 
new textbooks? 
 
If you are a higher education publisher, how do you assess your competitive 
position in higher education more broadly or in the disciplines in which you 
publish? What sources of data do you use to measure your competitive position 
relative to other publishers? Please comment on the reliability of any data sources 
discussed.  
Market for the acquisition of authors’ rights for higher education discipline 
content in Australia  
Geographic scope  
69. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the market for the acquisition of authors’ 
rights is also national. Market feedback has shown that publishers seek authors 
for their books from all around Australia, and that authors seeking to publish 
similarly look to publishers Australia-wide. 
Product scope   
70. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that competition in the acquisition of authors’ 
rights is likely to take place at an overall higher education level (as is the case 
with the downstream supply of publishing material). It is likely that publishers 
already active in the acquisition of material for certain higher education 
disciplines would find it easier to engage in the acquisition of authors’ rights in 
other disciplines than publishers with no involvement in higher education or 
completely new entrants to publishing.  


Cengage proposed merger with McGraw-Hill 
 
Page 12 of 17 
71. 
As with the supply of publishing material, the prominence of the four large 
publishers suggests there are complementarities available in acquiring materials 
for different disciplines. For example, as noted above, while authors will differ 
across disciplines, the expertise involved in identifying suitable topics and 
authors and in negotiating author contracts may share commonalities.  
72. 
However, the ACCC is also considering whether a narrower view of markets, 
based around specific disciplines, is appropriate. Narrower markets would 
recognise that publishers who focus on acquiring authors’ rights to content in 
certain disciplines would face barriers to acquiring rights to content from authors 
who write in other disciplines. For example, publishers new to a discipline would 
have to incur sunk costs to develop or hire expertise regarding the identity and 
track record of potential authors, the subject-matter that would need to be 
covered in author outputs and the potential level of downstream demand. 
Similarly, authors might not be open to publishing with specialist publishers that 
do not have expertise in publishing in their particular discipline.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary views about 
the definition of the relevant market for the acquisition of authors’ rights for higher 
education content. In particular, market participants may wish to comment on the 
following:  
 
How difficult it would be for a higher education publisher to identify suitable authors 
and acquire authors’ rights in a particular discipline, course or year level that the 
publisher does not currently acquire content for or publish in, so as to enable them 
to publish successfully in that new discipline, course or year level?  
 
When authors are approached by publishers to write a textbook, what factors do 
they consider? Are authors specialising in particular courses or disciplines open to 
contracting with publishers which do not presently have a specific focus in that 
course or discipline? Does the size or discipline-breadth of the publisher matter?  
Issue of concern: reduction in the number of major 
publishers in higher education publishing in Australia  
73. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed merger is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in higher education publishing in Australia.  
74. 
Publishers in higher education compete in a number of ways. The primary way is 
by offering educational materials that lecturers are likely to recommend to their 
students as the primary reference for their courses. This drives substantial 
demand for that material. In selecting and recommending educational materials 
to their students, lecturers primarily consider the quality of the content and its 
suitability to the material for their course. 
75. 
The ACCC is concerned that the elimination of the competition between two of 
the major publishers of educational materials for higher education in an already 
highly concentrated market, will reduce the commercial imperative for the 
merged firm to continually improve the quality and suitability of its educational 
materials. Given their size and position in this market, Cengage and McGraw-Hill 
are often each other’s major rival. The proposed merger reduces the incentive 
for Cengage and McGraw-Hill to continually improve the quality and suitability of 


Cengage proposed merger with McGraw-Hill 
 
Page 13 of 17 
their education material to either protect their position as the primary reference 
material for lecturers or to win that position.  
76. 
To the extent that lecturers place weight on the prices of educational material in 
selecting educational material for their courses, the elimination of rivalry between 
Cengage and McGraw-Hill may also result in higher prices for these materials.  
77. 
The result is likely to be a reduction in the quality and suitability of educational 
material for higher education, fewer titles and possibly higher prices.    
78. 
The ACCC is also concerned that the small number of remaining competitors in 
higher education publishing may also lead to an increase in prices, or a 
reduction in the quality or range, of education materials due to co-ordinated 
conduct amongst the few remaining competitors. This is particularly the case 
given the ACCC’s preliminary views that barriers to entry are likely to be high, 
and the likelihood of new entrants or expansion is likely to be low. 
Level of concentration 
79. 
As stated in the ACCC’s Merger Guidelines, market concentration refers to the 
number and size of participants in the market. It provides a snapshot of market 
structure as well as an approximation of the size of the merger parties, which 
can assist when considering the other merger factors.2 
80. 
In higher education publishing, Cengage and McGraw-Hill are both major 
publishers in Australia, and the merger would create a publisher of substantial 
size and competitive significance. Some market feedback has indicated that 
Pearson (and maybe John Wiley) will be the only remaining competitors able to 
constrain the merged entity in that it is a significant interdisciplinary higher 
education publisher. The proposed merger will result in a reduction from four to 
three major higher education publishers.  
81. 
Market feedback has suggested that other publishers such as Oxford University 
Press, Cambridge University Press, Macmillan, Taylor & Francis and Elsevier 
may not constrain the merged entity in higher education more broadly as they do 
not operate at a scale comparable to Cengage and McGraw-Hill and do not have 
the same breadth of titles across multiple disciplines.  
82. 
As noted above, lecturers are responsible for choosing the text for a course, and 
as such, are the decision-makers who publishers are ultimately marketing their 
texts to. Market feedback indicates that the major publishers have larger sales 
teams who are able to meet with faculties at higher education institutes to 
receive feedback about existing texts and market new texts to.  
83. 
In addition to significantly increasing concentration in higher education 
publishing, the proposed merger will also increase concentration in a number of 
individual higher education disciplines where the parties are currently both 
significant publishers and post-merger there will only be a limited number of 
other competitors. In these disciplines Cengage and McGraw-Hill are likely to be 
particularly close competitors.  
                                                 
 
2 ACCC, Merger Guidelines 2008 (updated 2017), paragraph 7.6.  


Cengage proposed merger with McGraw-Hill 
 
Page 14 of 17 
84. 
On the basis of information that the ACCC currently has, the ACCC’s preliminary 
view is that if the proposed merger proceeds, the following disciplines in Table 1 
would be highly concentrated, with few remaining competitors available to 
constrain the merged entity. 
Table 1: Disciplines where there will be a significant increase in concentration and 
reduction in remaining major competitors  
Discipline 
Remaining major competitors 
Psychology 
Pearson, John Wiley, Macmillan, Taylor & Francis 
Finance 
Pearson, John Wiley, Macmillan 
Accounting 
Pearson, John Wiley 
Business 
Pearson, John Wiley 
Economics 
Pearson, John Wiley, Macmillan, Oxford University Press 
Management 
Pearson, John Wiley, Oxford University Press 
Science & maths (especially 
chemistry and biology) 
Pearson, John Wiley, Macmillan, Oxford University Press 
Early Learning & Childcare 
The merged entity may only be constrained by smaller publishers 
Trade disciplines (for 
example, plumbing, 
automotive, construction, 
carpentry, electrical) 
The merged entity may only be constrained by smaller publishers 
Barriers to entry and expansion 
85. 
The ACCC is considering the extent of potential constraints from new entry.  
86. 
The ACCC’s Merger Guidelines note that the entry of new firms into a market 
can provide an important source of competitive constraint on incumbents. A 
credible threat of new entry alone may prevent any attempt to exercise market 
power in the first place. On the other hand, where a market has barriers to entry 
that either prevent firms from entering the market altogether or delay or impede 
entry, that may result in the merged entity being sheltered from competitive 
constraint for a significant period.3 
87. 
Based on market feedback, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that barriers to entry 
in higher education publishing are likely to be high. These barriers to entry 
include: 
 
the need to incur a variety of sunk capital and operating costs to either set 
up a publishing business or to expand into publishing in an unfamiliar 
discipline, with such costs not being recoverable in the event of exit or 
withdrawal. These include costs incurred in estimating demand, promoting 
                                                 
 
3 ACCC, Merger Guidelines 2008 (updated 2017), paragraph 7.17. 


Cengage proposed merger with McGraw-Hill 
 
Page 15 of 17 
and marketing material to universities, developing digital or online platforms 
and acquiring authors’ rights for content, 
 
inertia on the demand side arising from the costs to lecturers of switching to 
alternative publishers (including the need to re-align course materials such 
as slides and assessments to the new textbook), 
 
expertise required to build and maintain relationships with institutions to 
facilitate marketing and promotion, building and maintaining teams to 
service customers and establish and maintaining a digital platform, and  
 
a publisher that is not part of a global operation will not have access to free 
or relatively cheap content written overseas and the ability to sell replica 
books in Australia or adapt overseas content for the Australian market.  
88. 
Market feedback suggests that a number of the barriers noted above would also 
inhibit more specialist or discipline based publishers from expanding into another 
discipline.  
ACCC’s preliminary views 
89. 
In summary, the ACCC is concerned that the proposed merger would be likely to 
substantially lessen competition in higher education publishing in Australia. The 
ACCC is also considering whether there are narrower, discipline based markets, 
where the impact of the proposed transaction is likely to be most acute. These 
disciplines include Psychology, Finance, Accounting, Business, Economics, 
Management, Science & Mathematics, Early Learning & Childcare and Trade 
disciplines (such as Plumbing, Automotive, Construction, Carpentry and 
Electrical). 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to the 
issues identified above. In particular market participants may wish to comment on the 
following: 
 
How difficult would it be to commence publishing in higher education? What 
financial, logistical or other factors would a potential new entrant need to consider 
and overcome?  
 
How closely do Cengage and McGraw-Hill compete in higher education 
publishing?  
 
How closely do Cengage and McGraw-Hill compete in the publication of 
educational materials in Psychology, Finance, Accounting, Business, Economics, 
Management, Science & Mathematics, Early Learning & Childcare and Trade 
disciplines (such as Plumbing, Automotive, Construction, Carpentry and 
Electrical)? Are there any other disciplines where there is close competition 
between Cengage and McGraw-Hill? 
 
How easy is it for publishers to increase prices or reduce quality or range of 
textbooks in a coordinated manner? How will the proposed merger affect this?  
 
We understand that Cengage offers a broad range of educational materials for 
VET disciplines. How does McGraw-Hill’s, and other publishers’ range of 
educational materials for VET disciplines compare and compete against Cengage? 


Cengage proposed merger with McGraw-Hill 
 
Page 16 of 17 
 
How difficult is it for lecturers to switch to use different education materials? What 
are the costs (including in time and money) involved? 
Issue that may raise concern: reduced competition in the 
acquisition of authors’ rights for higher education content 
90. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed merger may substantially 
lessen competition in a market for the acquisition of authors’ rights for higher 
education content in Australia.  
91. 
The proposed merger will reduce the number of available publishers with whom 
an author can publish their works (in higher education generally, and in a 
number of specific disciplines), and the ACCC is concerned that this reduction 
may enhance the merged entity’s bargaining power with authors. The ACCC is 
concerned that this may increase the ability and incentive of the merged entity to 
impose onerous terms in contracts with authors.  
92. 
This may include lowering royalties or other payments to the authors or imposing 
exclusivity restrictions in contracts. Although the ACCC understands that 
exclusivity clauses are commonplace in contracts between authors and 
publishers, authors are generally able to write for other publishers in the same 
discipline so long as the texts are not in direct competition. The ACCC is 
concerned that the merged entity’s stronger bargaining position may give it the 
ability and incentive to impose more onerous exclusivity terms – for example, 
prohibiting authors from publishing texts with other publishers, even where those 
subsequent texts are not in competition with the first text.  
93. 
The ACCC is also concerned that the proposed merger may give the merged 
entity or other publishers the ability to demand more frequent new editions from 
authors. While more up-to-date content could offer some offsetting benefit to 
consumers, more frequent editions will also tend to reduce the value of second-
hand texts and increase the effective price paid by those students who buy new 
books with a view to re-selling them at the completion of their enrolment in the 
relevant course.  
94. 
A number of the factors discussed above in the context of higher education 
publishing (for example barriers to entry and level of concentration) apply equally 
to a market for the acquisition of authors’ rights in higher education content given 
the participants and constraints in each of these markets are broadly the same.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to the 
issues identified above. In particular market participants may wish to comment on the 
following:  
 
What is the process through which an author of a higher education textbook has 
their content published?  
 
How do authors of higher education textbooks negotiate royalties and other 
contractual terms with higher education publishers?  
 
Would the merged entity have a greater ability or incentive to reduce royalties or 
otherwise negatively impact contractual terms following the proposed merger?  


Cengage proposed merger with McGraw-Hill 
 
Page 17 of 17 
 
How easy is it for an author of a higher education textbook to switch to another 
publisher? What exclusivity obligations does an author of a textbook typically have 
to adhere to and how do these impact authors? Would the proposed merger affect 
the ability or incentive of the merged entity to impose such obligations on an 
author, and if yes how? Please provide examples. 
 
How will reduced choice of publishers impact higher education textbook authors?   
Issues unlikely to raise concerns: competition in the 
supply of primary education publishing and secondary 
education publishing 
95. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that there is unlikely to be a substantial 
lessening of competition in the supply of:  
 
primary education publishing in Australia, and  
 
secondary education publishing in Australia. 
96. 
McGraw-Hill only has a small share of sales in primary education publishing and 
the proposed merger would therefore only marginally increase Cengage’s 
existing share in primary education publishing. The ACCC’s preliminary view is 
that this increase would not be significant enough to lead to a substantial 
lessening of competition. 
97. 
The overlap between Cengage and McGraw-Hill in secondary education 
publishing is confined to a small range of VET related content that can also be 
offered to secondary schools and students. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that 
the small overlap is unlikely to lead to a substantial lessening of completion. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants about its preliminary views 
about whether a merged Cengage/McGraw-Hill will be unlikely to substantially lessen 
competition in the supply of primary education publishing Australia, or secondary 
education publishing in Australia. 
ACCC's future steps 
98. 
As noted above, the ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on 
each of the issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue 
that may be relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. Submissions are 
to be received by the ACCC no later than 20 January 2020 and should be 
emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au. 
99. 
The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
100. The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 12 March 2020. 
However the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose 
of explaining the ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's 
public announcement to explain its final view. 
