 
 
Page 1 of 15 
 
 
Statement of Issues 
29 March 2018 
 MYOB – proposed acquisition of Reckon’s Accountants 
Group  
Purpose 
1. 
MYOB Group Limited (MYOB) proposes to acquire Accountants Group from 
Reckon Limited (Reckon). 
2. 
This Statement of Issues: 
 
gives the preliminary views of the Australian Competition and Consumer 
Commission (ACCC) on competition issues arising from the proposed 
acquisition;  
 
identifies areas of further inquiry; 
 
provides all interested parties with an opportunity to comment; and 
 
invites interested parties to submit comments and information to assist our 
assessment of the issues. 
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views 
3. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is 
in section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits 
acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of 
substantially lessening competition in any market. 
4. 
The ACCC divides its preliminary views into three categories, 'issues of concern', 
'issues that may raise concerns' and ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’.  For this 
matter, there is one ‘issue of concern’ and two ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’. 
 
 
 


MYOB – proposed acquisition of Reckon’s Accountants Group 
 
Page 2 of 15 
 
Issue of concern 
5. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in the supply of practice software to medium-to-
large accounting firms. 
6. 
The ACCC understands that medium-to-large accounting firms require more 
sophisticated features from practice software, reflecting larger sizes, more 
complex structures and processes, and more diverse needs of their clients. 
Market feedback indicates that for those firms, the MYOB AE and Reckon APS 
products are generally considered to be the only options available. Market 
feedback indicates that practice software products from other suppliers are mainly 
designed for smaller accounting firms and do not provide many of the more 
sophisticated features generally required by medium-to-large firms. 
7. 
Market participants generally do not see new alternatives for practice software for 
medium-to-large accounting firms becoming available for at least several years, 
due to significant time and investment required to develop the more sophisticated 
features.  
Issues unlikely to raise concerns 
8. 
At this stage, the ACCC does not consider it likely that the proposed acquisition 
will substantially lessen competition in the supply of practice software to smaller 
accounting firms as there are several desktop and cloud-based alternative 
practice software products available for smaller firms.  
9. 
The ACCC understands that many accounting firms recommend accounting 
software to their small to medium enterprise (SME) clients and the proposed 
acquisition would give MYOB access to a large number of accounting firms that 
are using Reckon products. However, at this stage, the ACCC does not consider it 
likely that the proposed acquisition will substantially lessen competition in the 
supply of accounting software to SMEs. There are a number of accounting 
software options for SMEs. In addition, market feedback indicates that accounting 
firms generally recommend accounting software based on their clients’ needs, 
rather than merely responding to any incentives from software providers.  
Making a submission 
10. The ACCC is seeking submissions from interested parties, particularly on the 
following key issues: 
 
whether there are practice software products other than those from MYOB 
and Reckon that meet the requirements of medium-to-large accounting 
firms; 
 
whether new practice software products from other suppliers are likely to 
be developed for medium-to-large accounting firms; and 
 
whether the proposed acquisition would raise any competition concerns 
about the supply of practice software to smaller accounting firms and the 
supply of accounting software to SMEs. 


MYOB – proposed acquisition of Reckon’s Accountants Group 
 
Page 3 of 15 
 
11. Detailed discussion of these and other issues, along with specific questions, is 
contained in this Statement of Issues.  
12. Interested parties should provide submissions by no later than 5pm on 13 April 
2018. Responses may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: 
“Submission re: MYOB-Reckon - attention Yak Wang/Yong Xu”. If you would like 
to discuss the matter with ACCC officers over the telephone or in person, or have 
any questions about this Statement of Issues, please contact Yak Wang on (03) 
9290 6978 or Yong Xu on (03) 9290 6933.  
13. The ACCC anticipates making a final decision by 30 May 2018, however, this 
timeline can change. To stay up to date with changes to the timeline and to find 
relevant documents, interested parties should visit the Mergers Register on the 
ACCC's website at www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
Confidentiality of submissions 
14. The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We 
will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) 
unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or 
during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition and 
Consumer Act 2010.  Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where possible so that you may 
have an opportunity to be heard.  Therefore, if the information provided to the 
ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’ 
15. A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well as 
identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
16. A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the parties to the proposed acquisition and other interested parties with the basis 
for making further submissions should they consider it necessary. 
Timeline 
 
Date 
Event 
12 January 2018 
ACCC commenced review under the Merger Process 
Guidelines. 
14 February 2018 
Closing date for submissions from interested parties. 
7 March 2018 
Former provisional date for announcement of findings 
(22nd March) is delayed to allow MYOB more time to 
provide additional information.  


MYOB – proposed acquisition of Reckon’s Accountants Group 
 
Page 4 of 15 
 
16 March 2018 
ACCC received further information from MYOB. 
29 March 2018 
Release of Statement of Issues. 
13 April 2018 
Closing date for submissions relating to Statement of 
Issues. 
30 May 2018 
Proposed date for announcement of ACCC’s decision. 
The parties 
MYOB 
17. MYOB is an Australian publicly listed company. It provides software solutions to 
businesses and accounting firms in Australia and New Zealand. MYOB serves 
three key client segments:  
 
SMEs – providing accounting, payroll, payments, tax and other business 
management software to small businesses;  
 
Accounting firms – providing practice management, client accounting, tax 
and document management software to accounting firms. It provides MYOB 
AE for medium-to-large accounting firms and MYOB AO for smaller 
accounting firms; and  
 
Enterprise – providing enterprise software, including Enterprise Resource 
Planning (ERP) and Human Resource Management software, to medium 
and large businesses.  
18. For the 2017 calendar year, MYOB’s accounting firms segment generated 
revenue of $86 million, accounting for 21 per cent of its total revenue ($417 
million) in Australia and New Zealand.1 
Reckon  
19. Reckon is also an Australian publicly listed company. It provides software 
solutions for SMEs as well as professional services firms. Reckon organises its 
operations into the following groups: 
 
Business Group, which provides business accounting software for SMEs 
and also provides personal wealth management software;   
 
Accountants Group, which provides practice software with accounting 
practice management, client accounting, tax compliance and related 
functions. It provides Reckon APS for larger firms and Reckon Elite for 
smaller firms; and 
                                               
1  
MYOB, MYOB Annual report 2017, p.g. 27, available at 
http://investors.myob.com.au/DownloadFile.axd?file=/Report/ComNews/20180223/01954110.pdf, accessed 13 
March 2018 


MYOB – proposed acquisition of Reckon’s Accountants Group 
 
Page 5 of 15 
 
 
Practice Management – Legal, which provides cost recovery and expense 
management software for legal practices. It predominantly operates in the 
US and UK. 
20. The proposed acquisition only relates to Reckon’s Accountants Group. 
21. In calendar year 2017, Reckon’s Accountants Group generated global revenue of 
$41 million, accounting for 46 per cent of its total revenue ($90 million).2 
The proposed transaction 
22. On 16 November 2017, MYOB announced that it had entered into a purchase 
agreement to acquire Reckon’s Accountants Group. The proposed acquisition 
includes Reckon’s practice software for accounting firms and all associated 
clients, IP, systems and employees. The purchase price is $180 million. 
Other industry participants 
Xero  
23. Xero Limited (Xero) is a New Zealand-based software company listed on the ASX. 
It was founded in 2006. It provides cloud-based solutions for SMEs and 
accountants. Xero’s practice software suite includes practice management, client 
accounting, and tax modules. 
Sage 
24. The Sage Group plc (Sage) is a global enterprise software company with its 
headquarters in United Kingdom. Sage currently operates in 24 countries. 
25. Sage HandiSoft is desktop-based practice software for accountants. It provides a 
suite of modules including practice management, client accounting and tax 
functionality. On 14 November 2017, Sage announced the release of Sage 
HandiTax Cloud, a cloud-based tax preparation and lodgement solution. 
CCH 
26. CCH Australia Limited (CCH) is a member of Wolters Kluwer, a global information 
services company headquartered in the Netherlands. Wolters Kluwer currently 
operates in over 40 countries across Europe, North America, Asia Pacific and 
Latin America.  
27. CCH’s iFirm is cloud-based practice software. It provides a suite of modules 
including practice management, client accounting, document management and 
tax functionality.  
 
 
                                               
2  
Reckon, Results Presentation for the twelve months ended 13 December 2017, p.g. 19, available at: 
https://reckonlimited.sharepoint.com/Marketing/Shared%20Documents/Media%20%26%20Communications/Invest
or%20Info/2018/Reckon%20Roadshow%20Presentation.pdf?slrid=2744539e-902f-5000-79e8-64a05f86e608, 
accessed 13 March 2018 


MYOB – proposed acquisition of Reckon’s Accountants Group 
 
Page 6 of 15 
 
Thomson Reuters 
28. Thomson Reuters is a global mass media and information firm. In August 2014, 
Thomson Reuters acquired Software Assistant Pty Ltd, an Australian company 
that provides practice software for accounting firms called the Software Assistant 
Accountant Suite. This is a desktop-based product and includes practice 
management, client accounting and tax modules. 
Intuit 
29. Intuit Australia Pty Ltd (Intuit) is a subsidiary of Intuit Inc., an American software 
company that provides financial and tax preparation software to small businesses, 
accountants and individuals. 
30. Intuit’s QuickBooks Online Accountant is a cloud-based solution that provides 
accounting practice management and client accounting modules. 
Industry background 
Practice software for accounting firms 
31. Accounting firms use practice software to perform a range of tasks in providing 
professional services to clients. Practice software typically comprises some or all 
of the following modules.  
 
Practice Management – This module helps run an accounting firm’s 
business. Functionalities of this module include time sheets, billing and 
collection, customer relationship management, and resource planning. 
 
Document Management – This module provides company formation, 
registration and ASIC compliance functions. It also assists in the preparation 
of documentation relating to trusts and self-managed superfunds and 
provides company and title searches.  
 
Client Accounting – This module assists the accountants in validating client 
accounts and preparing worksheets and compliance reporting on behalf of 
their clients.  
 
Tax – This module assists accountants in the calculation and lodgement of 
tax returns on behalf their clients. Software developed to perform this 
function must meet Australian Tax Office (ATO) requirements. 
32. MYOB refers to the first two of these modules as “business modules” and the 
latter two as “compliance modules”. 
33. As discussed below, generally the larger a firm is the more complex its 
requirements for practice software are. Market feedback indicates that medium-to-
large firms require more sophisticated features across the modules in practice 
software. 
34. Historically, practice software has been developed to be installed and operated on 
the firm’s own computer system. This type of practice software is referred to as 
“desktop software”. In recent years, practice software solutions that are based on 


MYOB – proposed acquisition of Reckon’s Accountants Group 
 
Page 7 of 15 
 
cloud technology are becoming more popular. A key benefit of cloud-based 
practice software is that it allows accounting firms and their clients to collaborate 
more efficiently through access to the same platform from internet enabled-
devices. The firm and its client operate on a single ledger into which the client 
enters their transactions and which can be read by the firm in real time.  
Supply of practice software in Australia 
35. The main suppliers of practice software to accounting firms in Australia include 
MYOB, Reckon, Xero, Sage, CCH, Thomson Reuters and Intuit.  
36. The suppliers of desktop practice software include MYOB, Reckon, Sage and 
Thomson Reuters. Xero and CCH are the main suppliers of cloud-based practice 
software. 
37. MYOB offers two desktop practice software suites, MYOB AO and MYOB AE. 
MYOB AO is developed for smaller accounting firms. Customers purchase MYOB 
AO in standardised configuration. MYOB AE is tailored to the specific needs of 
larger accounting firms. It is customisable and has expanded functionalities. 
38. Reckon offers Reckon Elite, Reckon APS and ReckonDocs, which are part of the 
proposed acquisition. Reckon Elite is a desktop practice software suite for smaller 
accounting firms and Reckon APS is a desktop suite for medium-to-large 
accounting firms. ReckonDocs is a corporate document service software product. 
39. As discussed below, market feedback indicates that practice software products 
from Xero, Sage, CCH and Thomson Reuters are mainly designed for smaller 
accounting firms and do not provide many of the more sophisticated features 
generally required by medium-to-large firms. 
Previous ACCC decisions 
Thomson Reuters (Professional) Australia Ltd’s proposed acquisition of Ernst & 
Young Information Systems Pty Ltd  
40. On 19 November 2009, the ACCC decided to oppose Thomson Reuters’ 
proposed acquisition of Ernst & Young’s tax compliance software business. The 
ACCC was of the view that the proposed acquisition would be likely to have the 
effect of substantially lessening competition in the national markets for the supply 
of income tax compliance software and for the supply of fringe benefits tax 
compliance software. 
Thomson Reuters (Professional) Australia Ltd’s proposed acquisition of Allume 
Technology Partners Pty Limited 
41. On 11 November 2009, the ACCC decided not to oppose Thomson Reuters’ 
proposed acquisition of Allume Technology Partners. The ACCC considered the 
acquisition in the context of national markets for the supply of income tax 
compliance software and fringe benefits tax compliance software. The ACCC 
considered there remained two firms competing with the merged entity in each 
relevant market. In particular, the ACCC found that Ernst & Young's tax 
compliance software business continued to pose a significant competitive 


MYOB – proposed acquisition of Reckon’s Accountants Group 
 
Page 8 of 15 
 
constraint on the merged entity. The ACCC concluded that the acquisition was 
unlikely to substantially lessen competition in either of the relevant markets. 
MYOB’s proposed acquisition of Solution 6 Holdings Limited’s Accounting and 
Compliance business 
42. On 18 May 2004, the ACCC decided not to oppose MYOB’s proposed acquisition 
of Solution 6 Holdings Ltd’s Accounting and Compliance business. The ACCC 
considered the proposed acquisition in the context of a national market for the 
supply of business management software. 
43. The ACCC considered that the proposed acquisition would not lead to a 
substantial lessening of competition in the relevant market as there were a 
number of available substitutes, the market was dynamic and growing and the 
market was characterised by a number of new entrants including large 
multinational organisations.  
Future with and without the acquisition  
44. Section 50 of the Act prohibits mergers or acquisitions that would have the effect 
or be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. In 
assessing a proposed acquisition pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC 
considers the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future competitive 
environment post-acquisition if the acquisition proceeds (the “with” position) to the 
likely future competitive environment if the acquisition does not proceed (the 
“without” position) to determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in any relevant market. 
45. On the basis of the information currently available, the ACCC considers that if the 
proposed acquisition did not proceed, Reckon’s Accountants Group would 
continue to operate in competition with MYOB. Reckon may or may not seek an 
alternative purchaser.  
Market definition 
46. The ACCC’s starting point for delineating relevant markets, to assess the 
competitive effects of the proposed acquisition, involves identifying the products 
and geographic regions actually or potentially supplied by the parties to the 
transaction. The ACCC then focuses on areas of activity where competitive harm 
could occur as a result of the proposed acquisition.  
47. In relation to the geographic dimension of market definition, the ACCC considers 
that in the present case the relevant markets involve the supply at the national 
level of practice software to accounting firms. 
48. The ACCC has considered the following issues in relation to the product 
dimension of the relevant markets: 
 
whether practice software for medium-to-large accounting firms forms a 
separate market or whether practice software for accounting firms of 
different sizes belongs to the same product market;  


MYOB – proposed acquisition of Reckon’s Accountants Group 
 
Page 9 of 15 
 
 
whether different modules of practice software form separate markets or 
whether a suite of practice software forms a single product market; and 
 
whether desktop practice software and cloud-based practice software form 
separate markets or whether they belong to the same product market. 
Whether practice software for medium-to-large firms form a separate market 
49. The ACCC understands that medium-to-large accounting firms require more 
sophisticated features from practice software, reflecting larger sizes, more 
complex structures and processes, and more diverse needs of their clients. 
Market feedback indicates that those needs relate to both the compliance 
modules and the practice management module. Market feedback indicates that 
requirements for more sophisticated features limit medium-to-large firms’ options 
of practice software. Those firms generally consider MYOB AE and Reckon APS 
to be the only viable options and do not consider practice software from other 
suppliers meet their requirements. 
50. The parties submit that there is no correlation between the size of an accounting 
firm and its compliance software needs. However, the ACCC notes that MYOB 
and Reckon each have two sets of practice software suites, one for smaller firms 
with standardised configuration and one for medium-to-large firms with expanded 
functionalities. This appears to indicate that MYOB and Reckon themselves see 
medium-to-large firms as having specific requirements for both the compliance 
modules and the practice management module. 
51. In relation to supply side substitution, market feedback suggests that significant 
time and investment are required for suppliers that currently supply to smaller 
firms to develop practice software that meets the requirements of medium-to-large 
firms. Therefore, it appears that those suppliers may not be able to move quickly 
to make their practice software ready for medium-to-large firms in response to a 
price increase or a drop in quality in the supply of practice software for medium-to-
large firms. 
52. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that practice software for medium-to-large 
accounting firms is likely to form a separate market.  
Whether different modules in practice software form separate product markets 
53. In practice software, each module performs distinct functions, but each module 
interacts with other modules to achieve efficiency for the firm. For example, data 
generated in one module may be used in another module to avoid duplicate data 
entries and potential inconsistencies.    
54. Some accounting firms acquire different modules from different suppliers of 
practice software. It is possible to integrate different modules from different 
suppliers, especially where the suppliers provide application programming 
interfaces (APIs) to allow third parties’ modules to interact with their software. 
However, market feedback indicates that a significant number of accounting firms 
acquire key modules of practice software from a single supplier, rather than 
acquire different modules from different suppliers. They consider that this 
simplifies dealings with the supplier and allows more seamless interactions 
between modules than using different modules from different suppliers. 


MYOB – proposed acquisition of Reckon’s Accountants Group 
 
Page 10 of 15 
 
55. The ACCC has also considered whether the practice management and document 
management modules may be treated differently from other modules for the 
purpose of market definition, because they might be considered more generic and 
not specific to accounting firms. However, some market participants have 
indicated to the ACCC that the practice management module in practice software 
has specific features required by accounting firms and that generic products are 
not substitutes.  
56. Therefore, the ACCC considers that there is evidence that a suite of practice 
software comprising different modules likely forms a single product market. 
However, even if a narrower market definition were adopted for individual 
modules, competition issues are still likely to arise as market feedback suggests 
that MYOB and Reckon are the only options available for many medium-to-large 
firms for some modules.  
Whether desktop and cloud-based software form separate markets 
57. Many accounting firms see the benefits of cloud-based software and many smaller 
firms are moving away from desktop practice software to cloud-based software. 
For those firms, cloud-based practice software is a substitute for, and even a 
better option than, desktop practice software. On the other hand, market feedback 
indicates that some firms prefer desktop practice software to cloud-based 
software, due to concerns about the reliability of internet connections, especially in 
rural areas, security of cloud data and storage of cloud data in overseas 
jurisdictions. They do not see cloud-based practice software as a substitute for 
desktop software at this stage. 
58. In the present case, the ACCC considers that it is not necessary to form a 
definitive view on whether desktop and cloud-based software products form 
separate markets or a single product market. Medium-to-large accounting firms 
generally see MYOB and Reckon’s practice software products (which are desktop-
based) as the only options that meet their requirements. This is so regardless of 
whether these firms prefer desktop software or cloud-based software. For smaller 
firms which prefer desktop practice software, as discussed below, there are 
options aside from MYOB and Reckon.  
Issue of concern – MYOB owning the only two alternatives 
for medium-to-large firms 
Overview of competition concerns 
59. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in the supply of practice software to medium-to-
large accounting firms, as the proposed acquisition would result in MYOB owning 
the two practice software products that are generally considered the only viable 
practice software options for those firms.  
60. The ACCC is concerned that post-acquisition, MYOB’s dominant position in the 
supply of practice software to medium-to-large firms would give it the ability to 
increase prices, lower service levels or invest less in product innovation 
(compared to the level of investment that would occur without the transaction).  
 


MYOB – proposed acquisition of Reckon’s Accountants Group 
 
Page 11 of 15 
 
Removal of Reckon as a competitor 
61. Market feedback generally indicates that for medium-to-large accounting firms 
MYOB AE and Reckon APS are each other’s only competing product in terms of 
capabilities and functionalities. 
62. The ACCC understands that medium-to-large accounting firms require more 
sophisticated functionalities from practice software, including flexibility in reporting 
and workflow, flexibility in matter and customer management, advanced security 
configurations, and the ability to deal with more complex business structures of 
their clients. Medium-to-large firms also require practice software to have the 
scale to support larger numbers of concurrent users. Market feedback generally 
indicates that currently only MYOB’s and Reckon’s products meet these 
requirements. 
Alternative suppliers 
63. The ACCC understands that currently most medium-to-large accounting firms use 
practice software from MYOB or Reckon and that other practice software 
providers’ supply to medium-to-large accounting firms is insubstantial. 
64. Market feedback indicates that practice software products from other suppliers are 
mainly designed for smaller accounting firms and do not provide many of the more 
sophisticated features generally required by medium-to-large firms.  
65. Some of the largest accounting firms use in-house practice management tools or 
generic Enterprise Resource Planning tools for matter management and customer 
management. For some of those firms, such tools are a part of their global 
software platforms. In addition, some of the largest accounting firms use CCH 
Integrator and Thomson Reuters ONESOURCE for tax lodgement of their large 
listed corporate clients. Market feedback indicates that outside those largest firms, 
medium-to-large firms generally see MYOB and Reckon as the only viable 
alternatives for practice software.  
66. Some medium-to-large firms which recently reviewed their practice software 
needs and considered other potential suppliers of practice software have informed 
the ACCC that MYOB and Reckon were the only products that met their needs 
and that they did not consider other products to be viable alternatives. Where 
these firms switched products, the switch was between MYOB and Reckon. 
67. The parties submit that competitors can and do supply practice software to 
medium-to-large accounting firms and MYOB and Reckon’s compliance modules 
perform the same core functions as other competitors. However, market feedback 
indicates that MYOB AE and Reckon APS provide more advanced features and 
more flexibility that are not provided in other products that are designed for smaller 
firms.  
68. For example, the ACCC understands that some alternative products do not 
provide certain tax forms and do not deal with some of the more complex items in 
tax forms because these are generally not required by smaller firms. The ACCC 
also understands that MYOB AE and Reckon APS have the ability to customise 
security configurations and approval processes for tax forms and reports, whereas 
some other products do not provide these features, as smaller firms generally do 
not require this level of flexibility. In addition, market feedback indicates that 


MYOB – proposed acquisition of Reckon’s Accountants Group 
 
Page 12 of 15 
 
MYOB AE and Reckon APS provide more flexible accounting reports than other 
products. 
69. A small number of medium-to-large accounting firms use practice software 
products other than those from MYOB and Reckon. The ACCC understands that 
some of these firms use other products because of certain particular features 
provided in those products (such as the convenience of single ledger accounting 
provided in cloud-based software). They are prepared to develop “workarounds” 
(which often involve manual manipulation of data) to perform functions that are not 
provided in the practice software they use. However, on the whole it appears that 
medium-to-large accounting firms do require more complex features and many of 
these features are only provided in MYOB’s and Reckon’s practice software. 
Therefore, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that post-acquisition other practice 
software would not place sufficient competitive constraints on MYOB in the supply 
to medium-to-large accounting firms. 
Barriers to entry 
70. Market feedback indicates that new entry into the supply to medium-to-large 
accounting firms, or an expansion by an existing supplier to supply practice 
software to those firms, is unlikely in the short to medium term. 
71. Market feedback indicates that barriers to entry into the supply of practice 
software for medium-to-large accounting firms are higher than for smaller 
accounting firms. Significant time and investment are required to develop the more 
sophisticated features for medium-to-large accounting firms.  
72. Market feedback indicates that other suppliers are currently developing their 
business by concentrating on smaller accounting firms and the SME sector. 
Market participants generally do not see new entry into the supply to medium-to-
large accounting firms, or an expansion by an existing supplier to supply practice 
software to those firms, to be likely for at least several years. 
73. Aside from MYOB and Reckon, other current suppliers of practice software in 
Australia are all international companies. Market feedback indicates that in order 
for other global practice software to enter into Australia, significant redevelopment 
is required due to local accounting standards, tax rules and requirements of 
accounting firms in Australia. Market feedback indicates that any entry into 
Australia is likely to target smaller firms first and it would take at least several 
years for global practice software to be ready for medium-to-large accounting 
firms in Australia. 
74. Market feedback indicates that for accounting firms, a change of practice software 
involves significant switching costs, including costs associated with data 
conversion, retraining staff, changes to business processes and loss of staff time. 
Switching costs are especially high for larger firms. This further limits the likelihood 
of new alternative supply of practice software for medium-to-large accounting 
firms. In addition, market feedback indicates that accounting firms are generally 
reluctant to change to a practice software product unless it has a proven track 
record. This presents an additional barrier to alternative suppliers to medium-to-
large firms. 
 


MYOB – proposed acquisition of Reckon’s Accountants Group 
 
Page 13 of 15 
 
Ability for customers to self-supply 
75. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that self-supply of practice software is generally 
not a viable option for many firms. Market feedback indicates that only the largest 
accounting firms are capable of developing certain modules of practice software, 
due to the significant investment required. Any such product would be tailored to 
the needs of the particular accounting firm and would not be made available to the 
broader market. 
Potential impact on prices and quality 
76. The ACCC is concerned that following the proposed acquisition, MYOB’s 
dominant position in the supply of practice software to medium-to-large 
accounting firms would give it the ability to increase prices of practice software for 
medium-to-large firms. Market participants have indicated that MYOB and Reckon 
have placed pricing constraints on each other in the past. Both have been willing 
to offer competitive prices when participating in tender processes. The ACCC is 
concerned that following the acquisition, these competitive constraints would be 
removed. 
77. The ACCC is also concerned that the level of service may decline after the 
proposed acquisition, and/or that the level of investment in product innovation 
would be lower (compared to the level of investment in product innovation that 
would occur without the acquisition). 
78. Reckon customers have raised specific concerns about the quality of software 
updates they will receive post-acquisition. MYOB has announced that the 
proposed acquisition would “provide an online migration path for Reckon’s 
Accountant Group clients to the MYOB Platform”.3 Some Reckon customers are 
concerned that post-acquisition, as MYOB seeks to migrate Reckon users to 
MYOB products, it would maintain Reckon products but would not continue to 
enhance them.  
Invitation for comments 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the above issues. In 
particular, market participants may wish to comment on the following: 
a. the feasibility for medium-to-large accounting firms to use practice software 
products other than those from MYOB and Reckon; 
b. the likelihood of new supply of practice software to medium-to-large firms in the 
short to medium term; 
c. the potential impact of the proposed acquisition on prices and quality of software 
updates and services for MYOB and Reckon users. 
                                               
3  
MYOB, ASX Announcement – MYOB to acquire the assets of Reckon’s Accountant Group, 16 November 2017. 


MYOB – proposed acquisition of Reckon’s Accountants Group 
 
Page 14 of 15 
 
Issues unlikely to raise concerns  
79. The ACCC has considered the impact of the proposed acquisition on the supply of 
practice software to smaller accounting firms and on the supply of accounting 
software to SMEs. 
Supply to smaller accounting firms 
80. At this stage, the ACCC does not consider it likely that the proposed acquisition 
will substantially lessen competition in the supply of practice software to smaller 
accounting firms as there are multiple desktop and cloud-based alternative 
practice software products available for smaller accounting firms.  
81. Many smaller firms prefer cloud-based solutions to desktop software. Many of 
those firms have chosen Xero and CCH iFirm as their practice software. For 
smaller firms that prefer desktop practice software there are options other than 
MYOB and Reckon. For example, the ACCC understands that Thomson Reuters 
Software Assistant and Sage Handisoft, which are both desktop practice software, 
have substantial market shares among smaller firms. 
Supply to SMEs 
82. The proposed acquisition does not include Reckon’s business accounting 
software for SMEs. 
83. At this stage, the ACCC does not consider it likely that the proposed acquisition 
will substantially lessen competition in the supply of accounting software to SMEs. 
84. The ACCC understands that many accounting firms recommend accounting 
software to their clients. The proposed acquisition would give MYOB access to a 
large number of accounting firms that are using Reckon practice software. In its 
public announcement of the proposed acquisition, MYOB stated,4  
"The acquisition strengthens MYOB's growing adviser base by deepening the 
relationship with these advisers, creating an opportunity to accelerate online SME 
growth via a larger referral network.”   
 
85. However, the supply of accounting practice software to SMEs appears to be 
competitive and there are a number of options for SMEs. In addition, market 
feedback indicates that accounting firms generally recommend accounting 
software based on their clients’ needs, rather than merely responding to any 
incentives from software providers.  
Invitation for comments 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the above issues. In 
particular, market participants may wish to comment on the following: 
a. whether post-acquisition other desktop practice software would place effective 
competitive constraints on MYOB in the supply to smaller accounting firms that 
prefer desktop software; 
                                               
4  
MYOB, ASX Announcement – MYOB to acquire the assets of Reckon’s Accountant Group, 16 November 2017. 


MYOB – proposed acquisition of Reckon’s Accountants Group 
 
Page 15 of 15 
 
b. the extent to which MYOB may gain competitive advantages in the supply of 
accounting software to SMEs post-acquisition. 
ACCC's future steps 
As noted above, the ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on each 
of the issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that may be 
relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. Submissions are to be received by 
the ACCC no later than 13 April 2018 and should be emailed to 
mergers@accc.gov.au. In the subject line of the email, please include the following 
words “Submission re: MYOB-Reckon - attention Yak Wang/Yong Xu”. 
The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions invited by 
this Statement of Issues. 
The ACCC intends to announce its final view by 30 May 2018. However the 
anticipated timeline may change in line with the Informal Merger Review Process 
Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose of explaining the 
ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's public announcement to 
explain its final view. 
 
