 
 
1 
23 Marcus Clarke Street 
Canberra ACT 2601 
 
GPO Box 3131 
Canberra ACT 2601 
  
tel: (02) 6243 1368  
mergers@accc.gov.au 
 
www.accc.gov.au 
Our ref: 
IM-71969 
Contact officer: 
Mark Rakers / Louise Kelly 
Contact phone: 
(03) 9290 1803 / (03) 9658 6412 
25 October 2022 
Dear Interested Party 
Request for submissions: Proposed acquisition of Australasian Foods Holdco Pty 
Ltd (Patties) and Heat to Eat Holdings Pty Ltd (Vesco) by PAG Asia III LP  
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
the proposed acquisition by PAG Asia III LP of Australasian Foods Holdco Pty Ltd (Patties) 
and Heat to Eat Holdings Pty Ltd (Vesco) (Proposed Acquisition). 
PAG Asia III LP is an investment fund that is part of the PAG investment management 
group (PAG). PAG does not currently have any investments in businesses that supply 
ready meal, savoury or snacking products in Australia. The competitive overlap that arises 
as a result of the Proposed Acquisition is between the two targets, Patties and Vesco.  
Patties and Vesco manufacture and supply frozen and chilled ready meals, and other 
savoury and sweet frozen packaged foods in Australia.  
Further details about the products and brands supplied by Patties and Vesco are provided 
at Attachment A.  
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact of the Proposed Acquisition on 
competition. In particular, we are seeking your views on: 
• 
the extent of competition between Patties and Vesco, and the degree to which other 
companies compete with Patties and Vesco in the supply of ready meals, particularly in 
the supply of ‘health and wellness’ ready meals; 
• 
the extent to which consumers consider chilled and frozen ready meals to be 
substitutable, particularly in the supply of ‘health and wellness’ ready meals (taking into 
account factors such as price, quality, convenience and shelf life);  
• 
how easily manufacturers of chilled ready meals can switch to manufacturing frozen 
ready meals, and vice-versa; and 
• 
the extent to which ready meals at grocery stores compete with direct-to-consumer 
meal delivery services, particularly in the supply of ‘health and wellness’ ready meals.  


 
2 
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the Proposed Acquisition is in section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth). Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that 
are likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
Please provide your response by no later than 5pm on 11 November 2022. Responses 
may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: Submission re: Patties/Vesco – 
attention Mark Rakers / Louise Kelly. If you would like to arrange a time to discuss the 
matter with ACCC officers, or have any questions about this letter, please contact Mark 
Rakers on (03) 9290 1803 or Louise Kelly on (03) 9658 6412. 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public 
Mergers Register at (ACCC Mergers Register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC treats sensitive information it receives during a merger review as confidential, 
and will not publish your submission. We will not disclose submissions to third parties 
(except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of 
information legislation or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the 
Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth).  Where the ACCC is required to disclose 
confidential information, we will notify you in advance where possible so that you have an 
opportunity to be heard.  Therefore, please clearly indicate if any information you provide is 
confidential. Our Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on 
confidentiality. 
 
Yours sincerely 
 
Suzie Copley 
General Manager 
Policy, Coordination and Remedies Branch 
Mergers, Exemptions and Digital Division


 
 
3 
Attachment A 
Proposed Acquisition 
The Proposed Acquisition is intended to be implemented by PAG simultaneously acquiring 
Patties and Vesco.  
Acquirer – PAG  
PAG Asia III LP is an investment fund that is part of the PAG investment management 
group, which is one of Asia’s largest independent alternative investment management 
groups with approximately US$50 billion in assets under management. PAG does not 
currently have any investments in businesses that supply ready meal, savoury or snacking 
products in Australia.  
Target 1 – Patties  
Patties is a manufacturer and supplier of frozen and chilled ready meals, and other savoury 
and sweet frozen packaged foods in Australia.  
Patties supplies its products under a variety of brand names including: Four’n Twenty, 
Patties Foods, Herbert Adams, Ruffie Rustic, Leader and Nannas.  
Patties also manufactures and supplies frozen ready meal products under the Weight 
Watchers brand (pursuant to a licencing agreement with Kraft Heinz) and under the Fitness 
Outcomes brand (pursuant to a licencing agreement with Fitness Outcomes). Patties also 
produces and sells chilled pasta and sauce products under the Leggo’s brand (pursuant to 
a licensing agreement with Simplot). 
Patties is a private label supplier of frozen and chilled ready meals to Woolworths. 
Patties supplies its products through the grocery channel, convenience stores, quick 
service restaurants and the food service industry.  
Target 2 – Vesco 
Vesco is a manufacturer and supplier of frozen ready meals.  
Vesco supplies its products under a variety of brand names including: Super Nature and 
On the Menu.  
Vesco also manufactures and supplies frozen ready meal products under the Lean Cuisine 
brand (pursuant to a licencing agreement with Nestlé) and under the Annabel Karmel brand 
(pursuant to a licensing agreement with Annabel Karmel). 
Vesco is a private label supplier of frozen ready meals to Coles, Woolworths and Aldi. 
Vesco supplies its products through the grocery channel and the food service industry 
(under Vesco’s 7 Star and Enrico brand names) in Australia. 
 
 
 


 
 
4 
Attachment B 
1. 
Please provide a brief description of your business or organisation.  
2. 
Please outline the reasons for your interest in the Proposed Acquisition, including any 
products you purchase from, or supply to, Patties or Vesco, or any commercial 
relationships you have with Patties or Vesco.   
Closeness of competition in the supply of frozen ready meals 
3. 
How closely do Patties and Vesco compete with each other in the supply of frozen 
ready meals in Australia? In particular, please note any key similarities and 
differences in the frozen ready meals provided by Patties and Vesco, including price, 
quality, variety, service levels, manufacturing process or any ancillary services. 
4. 
Please identify and describe the competing suppliers of frozen ready meals in 
Australia, including the extent to which they compete with Patties and Vesco, and 
their relative size and product offerings compared with Patties and Vesco.  
Closeness of competition in the supply of ‘health and wellness’ ready meals 
5. 
How closely do Patties and Vesco compete with each other in the supply of ‘health 
and wellness’ ready meals in Australia? In particular, please note any key similarities 
and differences in the ‘health and wellness’ ready meals provided by Patties and 
Vesco, including price, quality, variety, service levels, manufacturing process or any 
ancillary services. 
6. 
Please identify and describe the competing suppliers of ‘health and wellness’ ready 
meals in Australia, including the extent to which they compete with Patties and 
Vesco, and their relative size and product offerings compared with Patties and Vesco.  
Substitutability of chilled and frozen ready meals 
7. 
Do consumers regard chilled and frozen ready meals to be substitutes? In particular, 
please comment on whether chilled and frozen ready meals compete closely in the 
‘health and wellness’ category (taking into account factors such as price, quality, 
convenience and shelf life).  
8. 
How readily can suppliers switch from manufacturing chilled ready meals to 
manufacturing frozen ready meals and vice versa? Are there any recent examples of 
suppliers switching between manufacturing chilled and frozen ready meals? 
Substitutability of grocery channel and direct-to-consumer channel in the supply of 
ready meals 
9. 
Do consumers regard ready meals acquired through the grocery channel to be 
substitutable with direct-to-consumer ready meal services (such as meal delivery 
services)? In particular, please comment on whether ready meals acquired through 
the grocery and direct-to-consumer channels compete closely in the ‘health and 
wellness’ segment. 
Competitive constraint from new entry or expansion 
10. 
What are the barriers to entry or expansion for suppliers of chilled or frozen ready 
meals in Australia? You may wish to comment on: 
a) 
set-up costs for a new entrant or expansion costs for an existing competitor; 


 
 
5 
b) 
whether new entrants need to secure customers before entry and, if so, the 
minimum scale required for new entry; 
c) 
timeframes for new entry or expansion; and 
d) 
any regulatory requirements or barriers to new entry or expansion.  
11. 
Are there any recent examples of entry or exit in the market for the supply of chilled 
or frozen ready meals in Australia? Are there any potential new suppliers of chilled or 
frozen ready meals in Australia? 
12. 
Please comment on the extent of any actual or potential direct competition from 
imported chilled or frozen ready meals.  
Other information or competition issues 
13. 
Please provide any additional information or comments, or identify other competition 
issues, that you consider relevant to the ACCC’s consideration of the Proposed 
Acquisition under section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth).  
