 
49589496_5 
Public consultation version: 30 November 2020 
 
 
 
 
Undertaking to the Australian 
Competition and Consumer 
Commission 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Given under section 87B of the Competition and Consumer 
Act 2010 (Cth) by Alphabet Inc and Google LLC 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
Index 
1 
Person giving the undertaking 
1 
2 
Background 
1 
3 
Commencement of this undertaking 
2 
4 
Duration of Undertaking 
2 
5 
Obligations 
3 
6 
Monitoring Trustee 
6 
7 
Dispute Resolution 
8 
8 
Cessation of ongoing obligations 
8 
9 
Jurisdiction 
9 
10 
General Provisions 
9 
11 
Provision of information to the ACCC 
9 
12 
Disclosure of this Undertaking 
10 
13 
Obligation to procure 
10 
14 
No derogation 
10 
15 
Change of Control 
11 
16 
Costs 
11 
17 
Notices 
11 
18 
Defined terms and interpretation 
11 
 
Schedule 1 
Dictionary and Interpretation 
 14  
Schedule 2 
Data Points Google Will Document With Respect To Individual Access 
 24 
Schedule 3 
Data Points Google Will Document With Respect to Service-Level Access 
 24  
Schedule 4 
List of Minimum Audit Points 
 24 
Schedule 5 
Indicative List of Current Data Types that Can Qualify as Measured Body Data and 
Health and Fitness Activity Location Data (as of 2 November 2020) 
 25  
Schedule 6 
Fast Track Dispute Resolution Procedure 
 27  
Schedule 7 
Indicative List of Supported Measured Body Data (as of 2 November 2020) 
 30
 
 
 


 
 
1 
Person giving the undertaking 
This undertaking is given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) 
by Alphabet Inc and Google LLC (Google). 
2 
Background 
The parties to the proposed acquisition 
Google 
2.1 
Google is a US-based information technology company. Google is the largest subsidiary of 
Alphabet Inc., specialising in internet-related services and products. Google’s principal 
activities include the provision of online search services, advertising and information 
management technology services, and the provision of marketing and sales support for web 
search engine services and advertising services. In addition to these core services, Google is 
also present in: 
(a) 
technology hardware, including mobile phones (Pixel), earbuds (Pixel Buds), and 
Nest smart home devices; 
(b) 
operating systems for mobile phones, wearable devices and laptops; 
(c) 
other software such as Chrome, Google Maps, Google Calendar and Gmail; and 
(d) 
payment systems through Google Pay. 
Fitbit 
2.2 
Fitbit, Inc. (Fitbit) is an American company headquartered in San Francisco, California that 
develops, manufactures and distributes wearable devices, software, and services in the health 
and wellness sector under the brand name ‘Fitbit’.  
2.3 
Fitbit’s products include fitness trackers, smartwatches, smart scales, and software. Fitbit’s 
wrist-worn wearable devices are supported by the Fitbit mobile app and Fitbit’s proprietary 
non-licensed operating systems. 
The Proposed Acquisition  
2.4 
Google proposes to acquire all of the issued and outstanding shares of Fitbit subject to the 
terms and conditions of a 1 November 2019 Agreement and Plan of Merger between Google, 
Fitbit and Magnoliophytia Inc. (Proposed Acquisition). The Proposed Acquisition will result 
in Fitbit becoming a subsidiary of Google. 
The ACCC’s review  
2.5 
On 27 February 2020, the ACCC commenced its public review of the Proposed Acquisition. 
2.6 
The ACCC undertook market inquiries and considered information provided by the parties to 
the Proposed Acquisition, industry participants and others. The purpose of the ACCC’s 
inquiries was to assess whether the Proposed Acquisition would have the effect, or be likely to 
have the effect, of substantially lessening competition in any market in Australia in 
contravention of section 50 of the Act. 
The ACCC’s competition concerns  
2.7 
[ACCC to insert]  
2.8 
[ACCC to insert] 


 
 
2 
2.9 
Google does not consider that the Proposed Acquisition would have the effect, or be likely to 
have the effect, of substantially lessening competition in the Relevant Markets. However, to 
address these concerns, Google has offered this Undertaking pursuant to section 87B of the 
Act. 
The Undertaking remedy 
2.10 
The objective of this Undertaking is to address the ACCC’s competition concerns as set out 
above that might potentially otherwise arise as a consequence of the Proposed Acquisition. In 
summary, the Undertaking aims to achieve this objective by placing obligations on Google: 
(a) 
not to use any Measured Body Data or Health and Fitness Activity Location Data in or 
for Google Ads;  
(b) 
to maintain the auditable holding separate of Measured Body Data and Health and 
Fitness Activity Location Data from any dataset within Google accessible for use in or 
for Google Ads; 
(c) 
to present each Australian User the choice to grant or deny use by Other Google 
Services of any Measured Body Data stored in their Google Account or Fitbit 
Account;  
(d) 
to maintain access, subject to user consent consistent with applicable laws and 
without charge for access, to Supported Measured Body Data for API Users; 
(e) 
to make the Core Interoperability APIs available, without charge for access, under the 
same license terms and conditions that apply to other Android APIs that Google 
makes available as part of AOSP and on a non-discriminatory basis; 
(f) 
not to degrade the Core Interoperability APIs by reducing their functionality to Third-
Party Wrist-Worn Wearable Devices relative to First-Party Wrist-Worn Wearable 
Devices; and 
(g) 
not to discriminate against Wrist-Worn Wearable Device OEMs by withholding, 
denying, or delaying their access to functionalities of Android APIs that Google makes 
generally available to other Android Smartphone App Developers for use with an 
Android App, and not to discriminate between Wrist-Worn Wearable Device OEMs 
and other Android Smartphone App Developers in relation to changing, replacing, or 
retiring Android APIs, or in terms of the access it provides to Developer Previews and 
Developer Documentation, 
in each case in accordance with, and subject to the conditions set out in, this Undertaking. 
3 
Commencement of this Undertaking 
3.1 
This Undertaking comes into effect when: 
(a) 
this Undertaking is executed by Google; and 
(b) 
this Undertaking so executed is accepted by the ACCC. 
4 
Duration of Undertaking 
4.1 
Subject to clause 4.2, this Undertaking shall remain in effect for ten years from the Control 
Date. 
4.2 
The ACCC may, during the final year of the initial ten year period, decide to extend the 
duration of clauses 5.1 to 5.4 of this Undertaking (and any associated clauses or definitions 
that relate to these paragraphs of the Undertaking) by up to an additional ten years if, in the 


 
 
3 
ACCC’s full discretion, it considers that an extension is necessary to address the issues 
raised in clauses [2.7 and 2.8] of this Undertaking.  
5 
Obligations  
Google’s obligations in relation to Ads  
 
5.1 
Google must not use any Measured Body Data or Health and Fitness Activity Location Data in 
or for Google Ads. 
5.2 
Google must maintain Data Separation. 
5.3 
Compliance with the obligations set out in clauses 5.1 and 5.2 above is to be achieved 
through a technical structure for data storage consisting of auditable technical and process 
controls, reflected in the following approach: 
(a) 
Fitbit Account data. To the extent either Measured Body Data or Health and Fitness 
Activity Location Data is written to a Fitbit Account, and this data is not subsequently 
transferred to a Google Account following the Control Date, this data will not be 
available to Google Ads. Google must maintain existing separations that are in place 
as of the Commencement Date between (i) any data that is not transferred to a 
Google Account and (ii) any dataset or data storage within Google. For clarity, the 
foregoing does not prohibit Fitbit’s use of Google solely as a data processor (i.e. a 
service provider) following the Control Date, pursuant to a customary data controller 
to processor agreement (i.e. a service provider agreement), as permitted pursuant to 
applicable law (including the EU General Data Protection Regulation).  
(b) 
Maintenance of an Access Restricted Data Store. Google will maintain a strictly 
permissioned virtual storage environment within Google. Measured Body Data and 
Health and Fitness Activity Location Data sent to Google (i) as part of any migration 
from a Fitbit Account to a Google Account, or (ii) having been collected using a 
Google Account from future First-Party Wrist-Worn Wearable Devices, First-Party 
Connected Scales or Fitbit Other Devices, will be stored in such an Access Restricted 
Data Store. Access to the compartment of Google’s backend storage layer housing 
such an Access Restricted Data Store will be controlled through Access 
Permissioning. 
(c) 
Implementation of Access Permissioning to the Access Restricted Data Store. 
Google will restrict access to such an Access Restricted Data Store through Access 
Permissioning. Access Permissioning will apply to both individuals and Google 
Services and Fitbit Services that seek to access Measured Body Data or Health and 
Fitness Activity Location Data stored in the Access Restricted Data Store: 
(i) 
Individual level access: Google will limit individual-level Access 
Permissioning to an authorised, restricted group of personnel for engineering, 
product, and other related business activities, such as product development 
or improvement, research, and other service provision, maintenance, or 
enhancement work, excluding any uses in or for Google Ads. Google will 
require a fully documented compliance review and approval process for the 
grant of Access Permissioning. Google will log each access session in 
Individual Level Access Documentation, which will include at least the criteria 
set out in Schedule 2. 
(ii) 
Service level access: Google will limit Access Permissioning to Google 
Services or Fitbit Services that comply with the Data Protection System, thus 
excluding any uses in or for Google Ads. Any such access will be 
documented in Service Level Access Documentation, which will include, at 
least, the criteria set out in Schedule 3. Google will log each Service that is 
granted access in Auditable Service Logs.  


 
 
4 
(d) 
Implementation of a Data Protection System. To the extent that a Google Service 
accesses Measured Body Data or Health and Fitness Activity Location Data, Google 
will apply a Data Protection System to ensure Data Separation of the accessed data, 
reflected in the following approach: 
(i) 
Measured Body Data and Health and Fitness Activity Location Data will 
either be stored in an Access Restricted Data Store or, if it is stored outside 
an Access Restricted Data Store, in Temporary Logs and subject to a 
retention and deletion plan supervised by the Monitoring Trustee. Measured 
Body Data or Health and Fitness Activity Location Data that a Google Service 
accesses as a result of an integration between a Google Service and the 
Fitbit Web API following the Commencement Date is subject to the 
requirements of Data Separation. 
(ii) 
Google will strictly permission these Temporary Logs to enable only access 
pursuant to clause 5.3(c) above. For the avoidance of doubt, the Temporary 
Logs will not be accessible to Google Ads.  
(iii) 
Google will maintain a Service Level Access Map.  
5.4 
The technical means by which Google achieves Data Separation may change over time to 
reflect evolving technologies and standards. Any changes will be subject to supervision by the 
Monitoring Trustee. 
5.5 
Google must present each Australian User the choice to grant or deny use by Other Google 
Services of any Measured Body Data stored in their Google Account or Fitbit Account. 
5.6 
The obligation set out in clause 5.5 above is without prejudice to, and should not be 
interpreted based on, any privacy or data protection laws or regulations, and does not come 
under the jurisdiction or purview of any privacy or data protection regulators. 
Google’s obligations in relation to Web API Access  
 
5.7 
Google must maintain access, subject to user consent consistent with applicable laws and 
without charge for access, to Supported Measured Body Data for API Users subject to the 
following conditions: 
(a) 
API Users’ continued compliance with the Fitbit Platform Terms of Service (where 
access is made available via the Fitbit Web API) or the Terms of Service and the 
Services User Data Policy (where access is made available via the Relevant Google 
API).  
(b) 
API Users’ continued compliance with the Privacy and Security Requirements.  
(c) 
Google can terminate access for violation of these requirements where Google has 
established such a violation or temporarily suspend access where Google has a 
reasonable belief of violation of such requirements. Google will notify the termination 
or suspension to the Monitoring Trustee within 14 days and indicate the reason for 
the termination or suspension.  
5.8 
Access may be provided through: (i) the existing Fitbit Web API (conditioned on the user 
whose Supported Measured Body Data are being accessed using a Fitbit Account); or (ii) the 
Relevant Google API (conditioned on the user whose Supported Measured Body Data are 
being accessed using a Google Account). 
5.9 
Following the Commencement Date and during the term of this Undertaking, Measured Body 
Data types may be added into the scope of Supported Measured Body Data, as set forth in 
the Update Mechanism.  
Google’s obligations in relation to Android APIs  


 
 
5 
5.10 
Google must make the Core Interoperability APIs available, without charge for access, under 
the same license terms and conditions that apply to all other Android APIs that Google makes 
available as part of AOSP and on a non-discriminatory basis, meaning without differentiating 
their availability or functionality depending on whether they are accessed by a First-Party 
Wrist-Worn Wearable Device or Companion App or a Third-Party Wrist-Worn Wearable 
Device or Companion App. 
5.11 
Google must not degrade the Core Interoperability APIs by reducing their functionality to 
Third-Party Wrist-Worn Wearable Devices relative to First-Party Wrist-Worn Wearable 
Devices.  
5.12 
Google must: 
(a) 
Not discriminate against Wrist-Worn Wearable Device OEMs by withholding, denying, 
or delaying Wrist-Worn Wearable Device OEMs’ access to functionalities of Android 
APIs that Google makes generally available to other Android Smartphone App 
Developers for use with an Android App. 
(b) 
Not discriminate between Wrist-Worn Wearable Device OEMs and other Android 
Smartphone App Developers in relation to changing, replacing, or retiring Android 
APIs. 
(c) 
Not discriminate between Wrist-Worn Wearable Device OEMs and other Android 
Smartphone App Developers in terms of the access it provides to Developer 
Previews. 
(d) 
Not discriminate between Wrist-Worn Wearable Device OEMs and other Android 
Smartphone App Developers in terms of the access it provides to Developer 
Documentation. 
5.13 
Google must not circumvent these requirements: 
(a) 
By discriminating between Wrist-Worn Wearable Device OEMs and other Android 
Smartphone App Developers in terms of warnings, error messages, or permission 
requests displayed in Android Apps.  
(b) 
Through conditions imposed on access to the Google Play Store by Wrist-Worn 
Wearable Device OEMs’ Companion Apps (eg regarding the use of data gathered by 
the Wrist-Worn Wearable Device OEM or the use of Android APIs by the Third-Party 
Wrist-Worn Wearable Device). 
5.14 
For the avoidance of doubt, Google shall be permitted under this Undertaking to: 
(a) 
Make available, exclusively for API Development and Testing purposes, in-
development Android APIs internally within Google, or to certain third parties. 
(b) 
Develop features associated with first-party Google products, apps, or services, for 
use solely with a First-Party Wrist-Worn Wearable Device, or as part of a partnership 
with a third party, provided that the implementation of such features shall not impede 
in any way the functioning of Android APIs for Third-Party Wrist-Worn Wearable 
Devices. For the further avoidance of doubt, any third party shall remain free similarly 
to develop and make available features associated with their own first-party products, 
apps, or services, including for use solely on their own first-party Wrist-Worn 
Wearable Devices in a proprietary software layer. Nothing in this Undertaking shall 
require Google to license versions of its first-party applications or services for 
preinstallation or download onto a Third-Party Wrist-Worn Wearable Device. 
5.15 
Google shall not be in breach of this Undertaking in the event of any degradation of 
interoperability between an Android Smartphone and a Third-Party Wrist-Worn Wearable 


 
 
6 
Device that is solely or primarily attributable to any acts or omissions of an Android OEM, 
Android Smartphone App Developer, or Wrist-Worn Wearable Device OEM. 
6 
Monitoring Trustee 
Appointment procedure 
6.1 
No later than the Control Date, Google must appoint a Monitoring Trustee to carry out the 
functions specified in this Undertaking for a Monitoring Trustee. 
6.2 
The Monitoring Trustee shall: 
(a) 
At the time of appointment, be independent of the Parties and each of their Related 
Bodies Corporate; 
(b) 
Possess the necessary experience, competence, and qualifications to carry out its 
mandate. In particular, the Monitoring Trustee shall possess experience, competence, 
and qualifications in relation to cybersecurity, data governance, information 
technology systems (including algorithms), data protection, APIs, and privacy, as 
applicable, including via the technical expert appointed pursuant to clause 6.12 
below; and  
(c) 
Neither have nor become exposed to a Conflict of Interest.  
6.3 
Google must remunerate the Monitoring Trustee in a way that does not impede the 
independent and effective fulfillment of its mandate. 
6.4 
Proposal by Google. At least 15 Business Days before the Control Date, Google must submit 
the name or names of one or more natural or legal persons whom Google proposes to appoint 
as the Monitoring Trustee to the ACCC for approval. The proposal shall contain sufficient 
information for the ACCC to verify that the person or persons proposed as Monitoring Trustee 
fulfil the requirements set out in clause 6.2 and shall include:  
(a) 
The full terms of the proposed mandate, which shall include all provisions necessary 
to enable the Monitoring Trustee to fulfil its duties under this Undertaking; and 
(b) 
The outline of a work plan that describes how the Monitoring Trustee would carry out 
its duties under this Undertaking.  
6.5 
Approval or rejection by the ACCC. The ACCC shall have the discretion to approve or reject 
the proposed Monitoring Trustee(s) and to approve the proposed mandate subject to any 
modifications it deems necessary for the Monitoring Trustee to fulfil its obligations in relation 
to this Undertaking. If only one name is approved, Google shall appoint or cause to be 
appointed the person or persons concerned as Monitoring Trustee, in accordance with the 
mandate approved by the ACCC. If more than one name is approved, Google shall be free to 
choose the Monitoring Trustee to be appointed from among the names approved. Unless 
agreed by the ACCC in writing, the Monitoring Trustee shall be appointed within one week of 
the ACCC's approval, in accordance with the mandate approved by the ACCC.  
6.6 
New proposal by Google. If all the proposed Monitoring Trustees are rejected, Google shall 
submit the names of at least two more natural or legal persons within one week of being 
informed of the rejection, in accordance with clauses 6.2 and 6.4 of this Undertaking.  
6.7 
Monitoring Trustee nominated by the ACCC. If all further proposed Monitoring Trustees are 
rejected by the ACCC, the ACCC shall nominate a Monitoring Trustee, whom Google must 
appoint, or cause to be appointed, in accordance with a Monitoring Trustee mandate 
approved by the ACCC.  
Functions of the Monitoring Trustee 


 
 
7 
6.8 
The Monitoring Trustee shall assume its specified duties and obligations in order to ensure 
compliance with this Undertaking. The ACCC may, on its own initiative or at the request of the 
Monitoring Trustee or Google, give any orders or instructions to the Monitoring Trustee in 
order to ensure compliance with this Undertaking. 
6.9 
The Monitoring Trustee shall:  
(a) 
Monitor the performance of this Undertaking by Google, including by auditing on a 
semiannual basis the Audit Points detailed in Schedule 4; 
(b) 
Assess the technical means through which Google generates access logs and 
synthesises such logs and access information into Auditable Service Logs and 
Auditable Individual Logs that are provided to the Monitoring Trustee for review;  
(c) 
Propose in its first report to the ACCC a detailed work plan describing how it intends 
to monitor compliance with this Undertaking; 
(d) 
Provide to the ACCC a written report, sending Google a non-confidential copy at the 
same time, within fifteen working days after the end of each six-month period so that 
the ACCC can assess whether this Undertaking is being complied with;  
(e) 
Propose, as applicable, to Google such measures as the Monitoring Trustee 
considers necessary to ensure Google’s compliance with this Undertaking; 
(f) 
Promptly report in writing to the ACCC, sending Google a non-confidential copy at the 
same time, if it concludes on reasonable grounds that Google has failed to comply 
with this Undertaking; 
(g) 
Act as a contact point for questions from third parties about the nature and scope of 
this Undertaking; and 
(h) 
Assume the other functions assigned to the Monitoring Trustee under this 
Undertaking. 
Duties and obligations of the Parties 
6.10 
Google must provide and must cause its advisors to provide the Monitoring Trustee with all 
such cooperation, assistance and information as the Monitoring Trustee may reasonably 
require to perform its tasks. The Monitoring Trustee shall have full and complete access to 
any of Google’s books, records, documents, management or other personnel, facilities, sites 
and technical information reasonably necessary for fulfilling its duties under this Undertaking 
and Google shall provide the Monitoring Trustee upon request with copies of any documents 
except where such disclosure would give rise to a loss of any applicable legal privilege. At any 
time it plans to start processing data that it reasonably considers qualifies as Measured Body 
Data or Health and Fitness Activity Location Data, Google shall provide the Monitoring 
Trustee with a proposed updated Schedule 5.  
6.11 
Google must indemnify the Monitoring Trustee and its employees and agents (each an 
“Indemnified Party”) and hold each Indemnified Party harmless against, and hereby agrees 
that an Indemnified Party shall have no liability to Google for, any liabilities arising out of the 
performance of the Monitoring Trustee’s duties under this Undertaking, except to the extent 
that such liabilities result from the wilful default, recklessness, gross negligence or bad faith of 
the Monitoring Trustee, its employees, agents or advisors. 
6.12 
At the expense of Google, the Monitoring Trustee shall appoint a technical expert and may 
appoint other advisors, subject to Google’s approval (this approval not to be unreasonably 
withheld or delayed) if the Monitoring Trustee considers the appointment of such advisors 
necessary or appropriate for the performance of its duties and obligations under the mandate 
provided that any fees and other expenses incurred by the Monitoring Trustee are reasonable. 
Should Google refuse to approve the technical expert and/or advisors proposed by the 


 
 
8 
Monitoring Trustee the ACCC may approve the appointment of such technical expert and/or 
advisors instead, after having heard Google. Only the Monitoring Trustee shall be entitled to 
issue instructions to the technical expert and/or advisors. Clause 6.11 of this Undertaking 
shall apply mutatis mutandis. 
6.13 
Google agrees that the ACCC may share Confidential Information proprietary to Google with 
the Monitoring Trustee. The Monitoring Trustee shall not disclose Confidential Information 
received from the ACCC, Google, or Fitbit to any third party other than the ACCC and a 
technical expert appointed pursuant to clause 6.12.  
Replacement, discharge and reappointment of the Monitoring Trustee 
6.14 
If the Monitoring Trustee ceases to perform its functions under this Undertaking or for any 
other good cause, including the exposure of the Monitoring Trustee to a Conflict of Interest: 
(a) 
The ACCC may, after hearing the Monitoring Trustee and Google, require Google to 
replace the Monitoring Trustee; or 
(b) 
Google may, with the prior approval of the ACCC, replace the Monitoring Trustee. 
6.15 
If the Monitoring Trustee is removed according to clause 6.14 of this Undertaking, the 
Monitoring Trustee may be required to continue its function until a new Monitoring Trustee is 
in place to whom the Monitoring Trustee has effected a full hand over of all the relevant 
information. The new Monitoring Trustee shall be appointed in accordance with the procedure 
referred to in clauses 6.1 to 6.7 of this Undertaking.   
6.16 
Unless removed according to clause 6.14 of this Undertaking, the Monitoring Trustee shall 
cease to act as Monitoring Trustee only after the ACCC has discharged it from its duties after 
the Undertaking with which the Monitoring Trustee has been entrusted have been 
implemented.  
7 
Dispute Resolution 
7.1 
In the event an API User or Wrist-Worn Wearable Device OEM informs Google and the 
Monitoring Trustee in writing that Google has either denied or revoked its access in violation 
of Google’s obligations arising from the Web API Access Undertaking or failed to comply with 
its obligations arising from the Android APIs Undertaking, the Fast-Track Dispute Resolution 
Procedure described in Schedule 6 shall apply. 
8 
 Cessation of ongoing obligations 
Withdrawal 
8.1 
Google may request withdrawal of this Undertaking pursuant to section 87B of the Act at any 
time. This Undertaking is taken to be withdrawn on the date the ACCC consents in writing to 
that withdrawal. 
Revocation 
8.2 
The ACCC may, at any time, revoke its acceptance of this Undertaking if the ACCC becomes 
aware that any information provided to it was incorrect, inaccurate or misleading. 
Waiver 
8.3 
The ACCC may, at any time, expressly waive in writing any of the obligations contained in this 
Undertaking or extend the date by which any such obligation is to be satisfied. 
Survival 


 
 
9 
8.4 
Unless and until this Undertaking is withdrawn in accordance with clause 8.1, clauses 1, 2, 3, 
4, 8, 10, 11, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17 and 18 survive completion of the obligations in clauses 5, 6, 7, 
9 and 12. 
9 
Jurisdiction 
9.1 
Google irrevocably submits to the jurisdiction of the Federal Court of Australia in relation to 
this Undertaking. 
9.2 
Unless and until notified in writing by Google to the ACCC of the appointment of another 
person as agent within Australia, Google appoints [ ] as its agent for the purposes of any 
service process in relation to this Undertaking. 
10 
General Provisions 
10.1 
Google shall be permitted under this Undertaking to take steps to: (a) meet any applicable 
law, regulation, legal process, or enforceable governmental request; (b) detect, prevent, or 
otherwise address fraud, security, or technical issues; (c) improve user privacy or security; or 
(d) protect against harm to the rights, property, or safety of Google, Google users, or the 
public as required or permitted by law.  
11 
Provision of information to the ACCC 
11.1 
Google must notify the ACCC in writing of: 
(a) 
the anticipated date of the Control Date, at least five Business Days before that date; 
and  
(b) 
the occurrence of the Control Date, within one Business Day of that date. 
11.2 
Google must respond in a timely manner to any questions or requests for information or 
documents made by the ACCC about this Undertaking. 
11.3 
The ACCC may request information from the Monitoring Trustee directly at any time. 
11.4 
The ACCC may direct Google in respect of its compliance with this Undertaking to, and 
Google must: 
(a) 
furnish information to the ACCC in the time and in the form requested by the ACCC; 
(b) 
produce documents to the ACCC within Google’s custody, power or control in the 
time and in the form requested by the ACCC; and/or 
(c) 
attend the ACCC at a time and place appointed by the ACCC to answer any 
questions the ACCC (its Commissioners, its staff or its agents) may have. 
11.5 
Any direction made by the ACCC under clause 11.4 will be notified to Google, in accordance 
with clause 17.2. 
11.6 
In respect of Google’s compliance with this Undertaking, the ACCC may request the 
Monitoring Trustee to: 
(a) 
furnish information to the ACCC in the time and in the form requested by the ACCC; 
(b) 
produce documents and materials to the ACCC that may be within the Monitoring 
Trustee’s custody, power or control in the time and in the form requested by the 
ACCC; and/or 
(c) 
attend the ACCC at a time and place appointed by the ACCC to answer any 
questions the ACCC (its Commissioners, its staff or its agents) may have. 


 
 
10 
11.7 
Google will use its best endeavours to ensure that the Monitoring Trustee complies with any 
request from the ACCC in accordance with clauses 11.3 and 11.6. 
11.8 
Information furnished, documents and material produced or information given in response to 
any request or direction from the ACCC under this clause 11 may be used by the ACCC for 
any purpose consistent with its statutory duties. 
11.9 
In respect of Google’s compliance with this Undertaking, the ACCC may in its discretion: 
(a) 
advise the Monitoring Trustee of any request made by it under this clause 11; and/or 
(b) 
provide copies to the Monitoring Trustee of any information furnished, documents and 
material produced or information given to it under this clause 11. 
11.10 
Nothing in this clause 11 requires the provision of information or documents in respect of 
which Google has a claim of legal professional privilege. 
12 
Disclosure of this Undertaking 
12.1 
Google acknowledges that the ACCC may: 
(a) 
make this Undertaking publicly available; 
(b) 
publish this Undertaking on its Public Section 87B Undertakings Register and Public 
Mergers Register; and 
(c) 
from time to time publicly refer to this Undertaking.  
12.2 
Nothing in this clause 12 prevents the ACCC from disclosing such information as is: 
(a) 
required by law; 
(b) 
permitted by section 155AAA of the Act; 
(c) 
necessary for the purpose of enforcement action under section 87B of the Act; or 
(d) 
necessary for the purpose of making such market inquiries as the ACCC thinks fit to 
assess the impact on competition arising in connection with this Undertaking. 
12.3 
Nothing in this clause 12 prevents the ACCC from using the information contained in this 
Undertaking for any purpose consistent with its statutory functions and powers. 
13 
Obligation to procure 
13.1 
Where the performance of an obligation under this Undertaking requires a Related Body 
Corporate of Google to take or refrain from taking some action, Google will procure that 
Related Body Corporate to take or refrain from taking that action. 
14 
No derogation 
14.1 
This Undertaking does not prevent the ACCC from taking enforcement action at any time 
whether during or after the period of this Undertaking in respect of any breach by Google of 
any term of this Undertaking. 
14.2 
Nothing in this Undertaking is intended to restrict the right of the ACCC to take action under 
the Act for penalties or other remedies in the event that Google does not fully implement 
and/or perform its obligations under this Undertaking or in any other event where the ACCC 
decides to take action under the Act for penalties or other remedies. 


 
 
11 
15 
Change of Control 
15.1 
In the event that a Change of Control is reasonably expected to occur, Google must: 
(a) 
notify the ACCC of this expectation as soon as practicable; and 
(b) 
only implement a Change of Control to another person or entity if that person or entity 
has given a section 87B undertaking to the ACCC that requires it to comply with the 
same obligations as are imposed on Google pursuant to this Undertaking, or on terms 
that are otherwise acceptable to the ACCC, unless the ACCC has notified Google in 
writing that a section 87B undertaking under this clause is not required. 
16 
Costs 
16.1 
Google must pay all of its own costs incurred in relation to this Undertaking. 
17 
Notices 
17.1 
Any notice or communication to the ACCC pursuant to this Undertaking must be sent to: 
Email address: mergers@accc.gov.au 
Attention: Executive General Manager 
Mergers, Exemptions and Digital 
With a copy sent to:  
mergersru@accc.gov.au 
Attention: Director, Remedies Unit 
Policy, Coordination and Remedies Branch 
Mergers, Exemptions, and Digital 
17.2 
Any notice, direction or communication to Google pursuant to this Undertaking must be sent 
to: 
[ 
] 
17.3 
If sent by post, notices are taken to be received three Business Days after posting (or seven 
Business Days after posting if sent to or from a place outside Australia). 
17.4 
If sent by email, notices are taken to be received at the time shown in the email as the time 
the email was sent. 
Change of contact details 
17.5 
Google must notify the ACCC of a change to its contact details within three Business Days. 
17.6 
Any notice or communication will be sent to the most recently advised contact details and 
subject to clauses 17.3 and 17.4, will be taken to be received. 
18 
Defined terms and interpretation 
Definitions in the Dictionary 
18.1 
A term or expression starting with a capital letter: 
(a) 
which is defined in the Dictionary in Part 1 of Schedule 1 (Dictionary) has the 
meaning given to it in the Dictionary; or 
(b) 
which is defined in the Corporations Act, but is not defined in the Dictionary, has the 
meaning given to it in the Corporations Act. 


 
 
12 
Interpretation 
18.2 
Part 2 of Schedule 1 sets out rules of interpretation for this Undertaking. 
 
 
 
 


 
 
13 
Executed as an Undertaking 
 
Executed by Alphabet Inc by its authorised signatory 
…………………………………………………… 
(Signature) 
…………………………………………………… 
(Name and title 
…………………………………………………… 
(Date) 
 
Executed by Google LLC by its authorised signatory 
…………………………………………………… 
(Signature) 
…………………………………………………… 
(Name and title 
…………………………………………………… 
(Date) 
 
Accepted by the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission pursuant to section 87B of the 
Competition and Consumer Act 2010 on: 
 
…………………………………………………………... 
And signed on behalf of the Commission: 
…………………………………………………………... 2020 
Chairman 
 
 
Date 
 
 
 
 


 
 
14 
Schedule 1: Dictionary and Interpretation 
Part 1: Dictionary  
ACCC means the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission. 
Access Permissioning means the auditable control of access rights to an Access 
Restricted Data Store. 
Access Restricted Data Store means a strictly permissioned virtual data storage 
environment within Google that holds Measured Body Data and Health and Fitness 
Activity Location Data, separate from any dataset within Google accessible for use in 
or for Google Ads. If Google creates any dataset that stores Measured Body Data 
and/or Health and Fitness Activity Location Data together with another Google 
dataset, that dataset shall be treated either as an Access Restricted Data Store or as 
Temporary Logs. 
Act means the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth). 
Ads Undertaking means the obligations set out in clauses 5.1 to 5.6 of this 
Undertaking. 
Android APIs means the APIs, including any improvements or bug fixes, that Google 
licenses to Android OEMs without charge for access, either as part of AOSP or GMS, 
for use by Android Smartphone App Developers with an Android App. 
Android APIs Undertaking means the obligations set out in clauses 5.10 to 5.15 of 
this Undertaking. 
Android App means a mobile application designed to run on a compatible Android 
Smartphone. 
Android Compatibility Definition Document means the document published at 
https://source.android.com/compatibility/cdd (or any successor site). 
Android OEM means any actual or potential supplier of Android Smartphones, 
excluding the Parties. 
Android Smartphone means a handheld device (as defined in the Android 
Compatibility Definition Document) running AOSP. 
Android Smartphone App Developer means a third-party developer of an Android 
App. 
AOSP means the open-source Android binary code available at 
https://source.android.com (or any successor site) or any successor open-source 
smartphone operating system. 
API Development and Testing means the process by which Google develops and 
tests new versions of Android APIs, prior to their simultaneous release to Android 
Smartphone App Developers. For the avoidance of doubt, this may include Google’s 
use of a lead device to develop and test new software. 
API User means any third party with a software application distributed or made 
available to Australian Users that requests access to the Fitbit Web API or the 
Relevant Google API, meets the Privacy and Security Requirements, and agrees to 
the Fitbit Platform Terms of Service (where access is made available via the Fitbit 
Web API) or the Terms of Service and the Services User Data Policy (where access 
is made available via the Relevant Google API). 


 
 
15 
Audit Points means the minimum data and information points that the Monitoring 
Trustee will audit on a regular basis. 
Auditable Individual Logs means a list of all individuals that have accessed an 
Access Restricted Data Store or Temporary Logs and the date of that access. 
Auditable Service Logs means a list of all Google Services that have access to an 
Access Restricted Data Store or Temporary Logs. 
Australian User means a user that has during the period of the Undertaking been 
(i) located in Australia as determined by Google Account information or Fitbit Account 
information, as applicable, or (ii) located outside of Australia according to Google 
Account information or Fitbit Account information, as applicable, but whose IP 
address associated with use of Google or Fitbit Health and Fitness Apps, as 
applicable, has been located in Australia for more than 30 consecutive days. 
Benchmark OEMs means the 5 largest suppliers of consumer wrist-worn wearable 
devices that process the data types that qualify as Measured Body Data and/or 
Health and Fitness Activity Location Data if processed by Google or Fitbit as 
measured in the Industry Report, excluding Fitbit, Google, and any Wrist-Worn 
Wearable Device OEMs using Wear OS and that provide developers with access to 
their health and wellness data solely through the Fitbit Web API or the Relevant 
Google API. 
Business Day means a day other than a Saturday or Sunday on which banks are 
open for business generally in the Australian Capital Territory.  
Change of Control means: 
(i) 
the assignment or other transfer of the legal or beneficial ownership of some 
or all of the share capital of Google to any other person or entity that may 
impact compliance with this Undertaking in its entirety; or 
(ii) 
the sale or transfer of any assets necessary, or which may be necessary, to 
enable Google to continue to comply with this Undertaking in its entirety. 
Companion App means a mobile app available for an Android Smartphone whose 
functionality includes but is not limited to pairing, notification bridging, and device 
management and settings for a Wrist-Worn Wearable Device. 
Confidential Information means any business secrets, know-how, commercial 
information, or any other information of a proprietary nature that is not in the public 
domain. 
Conflict of Interest means any conflict of interest that impairs the Monitoring 
Trustee's objectivity and independence in discharging its duties under this 
Undertaking. 
Control Date means the date on which the Proposed Acquisition is completed. 
Commencement Date means the date described in clause 3.1 of this Undertaking. 
Core Interoperability APIs means Android APIs licensed as part of AOSP offering at 
least the functionality of Android APIs that currently exist in AOSP, including any 
improvements of those functionalities as a result of updates or bug fixes, that, when 
properly implemented by an Android OEM on an Android Smartphone, and with 
appropriate user consent, provide the means for a Third-Party Wrist-Worn Wearable 
Device (or, as appropriate, associated Companion App) to: 


 
 
16 
(i) 
Connect to the Android Smartphone via Bluetooth (or any successor 
technology), maintain such a connection, and transfer data between the 
Wrist-Worn Wearable Device and the Android Smartphone; 
(ii) 
Scan for any nearby Wrist-Worn Wearable Devices and/or make the Android 
Smartphone visible to those devices; 
(iii) 
Display and act upon notifications (including phone calls, text messages, and 
calendar events) from the Android Smartphone on the connected Wrist-Worn 
Wearable Device; 
(iv) 
Read, initiate, and reply to a text message sent to the paired Android 
Smartphone; 
(v) 
Display controls for initiating, answering or declining phone calls on the 
paired Android Smartphone; 
(vi) 
Display, initiate, and edit calendar events on the paired Android Smartphone; 
(vii) 
Access and control the camera on the paired Android Smartphone; 
(viii) 
Access a geolocation sensor (eg GPS) on the paired Android Smartphone 
that is capable of providing geolocation coordinates; 
(ix) 
Control media playback on the paired Android Smartphone; and 
(x) 
View and sync contacts stored on the paired Android Smartphone. 
Corporations Act means the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth). 
Data Protection System means the auditable set of requirements supervised by the 
Monitoring Trustee to ensure that Measured Body Data and Health and Fitness 
Activity Location Data to which a Google Service gains access is permissioned in a 
manner that prevents its use in or for Google Ads.  
Data Separation means the auditable holding separate of Measured Body Data and 
Health and Fitness Activity Location Data from any dataset within Google accessible 
for use in or for Google Ads. 
Developer Documentation means information that Google makes generally 
available to facilitate the use of Android APIs, of the kind that is currently provided for 
existing APIs on developer.android.com (or any successor site) and 
https://developers.google.com/android/ (or any successor site). 
Developer Previews means a process by which Google makes forthcoming Android 
software available to Android Smartphone App Developers to facilitate their 
development of apps for an upcoming Android release. 
Equivalent Data Type means a commonly defined and standardised consumer 
health and fitness data type sent to a supplier of consumer wrist-worn wearable 
devices from sensors on such supplier’s wrist-worn wearable devices or that is 
manually inputted into such supplier’s apps usable with such devices.  
First-Party Connected Scale means any consumer connected scale for measuring a 
user’s weight developed or manufactured by Fitbit or Google, regardless of its 
branding, that collects or processes Measured Body Data and/or Health and Fitness 
Activity Location Data. For the avoidance of doubt, this definition does not capture 
devices that are not sold or otherwise provided to customers for everyday use. 


 
 
17 
First-Party Wrist-Worn Wearable Device means any consumer wrist-worn wearable 
device developed or manufactured by Fitbit or Google, regardless of its branding, that 
collects or processes Measured Body Data and/or Health and Fitness Activity 
Location Data. For the avoidance of doubt, this definition does not capture devices 
that are not sold or otherwise provided to customers for everyday use.  
Fitbit means Fitbit, Inc. or any Related Body Corporate of Fitbit, Inc, or any successor 
entities. 
Fitbit Account means a user account subject to the Fitbit Terms of Service and Fitbit 
Privacy Policy during the term of this Undertaking. 
Fitbit Other Device means any device developed or in development or manufactured 
by Fitbit at the Commencement Date that is not a First-Party Wrist-Worn Wearable 
Device or a First-Party Connected Scale and that collects or processes Measured 
Body Data and/or Health and Fitness Activity Location Data, such as Fitbit Clips. 
Fitbit Platform Terms of Service means the terms of service applicable to the Fitbit 
Platform available at: https://dev.fitbit.com/legal/platform-terms-of-service/, or any 
successor site, as may be updated from time-to-time, for instance to comply with 
changes to applicable privacy laws or regulations. Any updates to the Fitbit Platform 
Terms of Service following the Commencement Date specific to access to the Fitbit 
Web API will be consistent with the spirit of the Web API Access Undertaking. Google 
will notify the Monitoring Trustee of changes to these Fitbit Platform Terms of Service 
ten days prior to their becoming effective, unless the change is urgent in which case 
Google will notify the Monitoring Trustee as soon as reasonably practicable and no 
later than five days after such terms become effective.  
Fitbit Service means any product or service (including algorithms) operated by Fitbit 
at any time during the term of this Undertaking. 
Fitbit Web API means Fitbit’s web-based API as described at 
https://dev.fitbit.com/build/reference/web-api/ or any successor site that enables third-
party applications and services to access and modify Fitbit users’ Supported 
Measured Body Data on their behalf subject to the Fitbit Platform Terms of Service. 
GMS means Google’s proprietary software layer as licensed to OEMs for 
preinstallation on a compatible Android Smartphone. 
Google means Google LLC or any Related Body Corporate of Google LLC. 
Google Account means a user account (as described in account.google.com or any 
successor site) created subject to the Google Terms of Service and Google Privacy 
Policy and used during the term of this Undertaking.  
Google Ads means any current or future Google Service providing search 
advertising, display advertising, and advertising intermediation, including advertising 
measurement, regardless of the property on which ads are displayed, including any 
Google owned and operated properties. For the avoidance of any doubt, any Fitbit 
Services providing search advertising, display advertising, and advertising 
intermediation developed, offered, or sold following the Control Date would constitute 
Google Ads for the purposes of this Undertaking. Google Ads currently includes the 
following services: Google Ads (includes Google Display Network, Google Search 
Network, YouTube Ads, Gmail Ads), Google Marketing Platform (includes Display & 
Video 360, Search Ads 360, Campaign Manager, Google Analytics, Google Tag 
Manager, Optimize, Data Studio, Google Surveys), AdSense (includes AdSense for 
Search, AdSense for Shopping, AdSense for Content, AdSense for Games, AdSense 
for Video, AdSense for Domains), AdMob (includes Open Bidding), Google Ad 
Manager (includes Open Bidding, Network Bidding, Dynamic Ad Insertion), 
Authorized Buyers, Ad Connector, Ads Data Hub, Google Hotel Ads, Google 


 
 
18 
Shopping Ads, Local Inventory Ads, Manufacturer Center, Merchant Center, and 
Waze Local Ads.  
Google or Fitbit Health and Fitness App means a Google or Fitbit web, mobile or 
wearable application used with either a Google Account or a Fitbit Account and 
designed to enable a registered user to measure, track, and manage their health and 
fitness using Measured Body Data and/or Health and Fitness Activity Location Data. 
As of the Commencement Date these consist of the iOS, Android, and WearOS 
versions of the Google Fit app and the iOS, Android, Amazon, and Windows versions 
of the Fitbit apps, including the Fitbit Coach and Fitbit Premium services. 
Google Play Store means Google’s app store for Android Smartphones, available at: 
https://play.google.com/store, or any successor Google app store for Android 
Smartphones.  
Google Service means any product or service (including algorithms) operated by 
Google at any time during the term of this Undertaking. For the avoidance of any 
doubt, Google Services include any product or service Google may develop in the 
future, including via acquisitions, regardless of its branding.  
Google Smartphone means an Android Smartphone that is developed or 
manufactured by Google. 
Health and Fitness Activity Location Data means any data (including processed 
data and derived data) relating to identified or identifiable (as defined under 
applicable data protection laws) Australian Users’ geolocation collected by a health 
and fitness activity tracking feature on Google or Fitbit Health and Fitness Apps (or 
any replacement or successor Google or Fitbit Health and Fitness Apps), where such 
geolocation data is collected and sent to Google or Fitbit from the First-Party Wrist-
Worn Wearable Device, First-Party Connected Scale or Fitbit Other Devices. 
Schedule 5 lists the data types that can qualify as Health and Fitness Activity 
Location Data at the Commencement Date. Schedule 5 will be updated on a 
semiannual basis, with the supervision of the Monitoring Trustee, and at such other 
times as the Monitoring Trustee may reasonably request, to include other data types 
meeting the definition of Health and Fitness Activity Location Data introduced during 
the term of this Undertaking. Health and Fitness Activity Location Data does not 
include (i) any data (including derived data) relating to identified or identifiable 
Australian Users’ geolocation collected by any apps or services other than Google or 
Fitbit Health and Fitness Apps (or any replacement or successor Google or Fitbit 
Health and Fitness Apps), including background geolocation data; or (ii) data 
collected from participating Google Accounts or Fitbit Accounts, as the case may be, 
operated by Google employees or Fitbit employees as part of internal Google 
Services or Fitbit Services testing or development, including to test compliance with 
this Undertaking or any other commitment provided to a competition authority in 
relation to the Proposed Acquisition. 
Individual Level Access Documentation means a record of Google’s approval 
process for applying Access Permissioning to individuals.  
Industry Report means global share of sales (excluding sales in the People’s 
Republic of China) of wrist-worn wearable devices by volume over the most recent 
four quarters as measured by the most current IDC Worldwide Quarterly Wearable 
Device Tracker or, were IDC to suspend publication of this tracker, an equivalent 
industry report.  
Measured Body Data means any data (including processed data and derived data) 
relating to identified or identifiable (as defined under applicable data protection laws) 
Australian Users that measures and tracks the user’s body functions, physical 
condition, fitness activities, nutrition or wellness, and similar functions, and that is sent 
to: 


 
 
19 
(i) 
Google or Fitbit, from sensors on First-Party Wrist-Worn Wearable Devices, 
First-Party Connected Scales, or Fitbit Other Devices; or  
(ii) 
Fitbit, having been manually inputted into a Fitbit Account through a Fitbit 
Health and Fitness App; or  
(iii) 
Google, having been manually inputted into a Google Account through a 
Google Health and Fitness App where such app is usable with First-Party 
Wrist-Worn Wearable Devices, First-Party Connected Scales, or Fitbit Other 
Devices. 
Schedule 5 lists the data types that qualify as Measured Body Data as of 
November 2, 2020. Schedule 5 will be updated on a semiannual basis, with the 
supervision of the Monitoring Trustee, and at such other times as the Monitoring 
Trustee may reasonably request, to include other data types meeting the definition of 
Measured Body Data introduced during the term of this Undertaking. Measured Body 
Data does not include data collected from participating Google Accounts or Fitbit 
Accounts, as the case may be, operated by Google employees or Fitbit employees as 
part of internal Google Services or Fitbit Services testing or development, including to 
test compliance with this Undertaking or any other commitment provided to a 
competition authority in relation to the Proposed Acquisition. For the avoidance of 
doubt, and to avoid circumvention of the Ads Undertaking, if Google or Fitbit 
knowingly and intentionally transmits Measured Body Data to a third party for the 
purpose of receiving such data back to use in or for Google Ads, such received data 
shall also constitute Measured Body Data.  
Monitoring Trustee means one or more natural or legal persons who are approved 
by the ACCC and appointed by Google, and who have the duty to carry out the 
functions specified in this Undertaking for a Monitoring Trustee. 
Other Google Services means any Google Service (such as Google Search, Google 
Maps, Google Assistant, and YouTube) other than:  
(i) 
Any Google Service or Fitbit Service whose primary purpose is related to 
users’ health and fitness or healthcare;  
(ii) 
Common or shared Google infrastructure and internal systems, tools, 
processes, programs, and services (e.g. hosting, network infrastructure, 
security or any other internal tools (including Google Takeout), platforms and 
operating systems, backup storage, personnel, or support services (including 
customer support), payment processing, and fraud prevention, technical 
engineering support, security, and troubleshooting services);  
(iii) 
Sharing with or use by Google of Measured Body Data where reasonably 
necessary for Google to: (a) meet any applicable law, regulation, legal 
process, or enforceable governmental request; (b) enforce applicable terms 
of service, including investigation of potential violations; (c) detect, prevent, 
or otherwise address fraud, security, or technical issues; or (d) protect 
against harm to the rights, property or safety of Google, Google users, or the 
public as required or permitted by law.  
Parties means Google and Fitbit. 
Privacy and Security Requirements means: 
(i) 
Primary Purpose: The primary purpose for requesting access and use of 
data must be related to users’ health and fitness or healthcare; 


 
 
20 
(ii) 
Minimum and Proportionate Access: The application or service must 
request only the minimum access to user data necessary to perform the 
functionality; 
(iii) 
User Notice: The application or service must provide adequate notice to the 
user about their data being accessed and used, prior to such access and 
use; 
(iv) 
Express and Informed User Consent: The application or service must 
obtain the user’s express and informed consent under applicable data 
protection laws;  
(v) 
Purpose Limitations: The application or service may only use and transfer 
data for the permitted purposes for which the API User obtained access to 
the data and only to the extent necessary, for security purposes, to comply 
with applicable laws, or with express and informed user consent. The 
application or service may not use or transfer the data for prohibited 
purposes, such as personalised advertising purposes, to determine credit-
worthiness, or provide the data to data brokers, advertising platforms, or 
other information resellers; 
(vi) 
Security Requirements: API Users are required to handle data securely in 
accordance with industry standard security requirements and practices. To 
ensure compliance with security requirements, Google may require third 
parties seeking to access Supported Measured Body Data to undergo 
standardised security assessments, for which API Users may incur a charge 
to be paid to the third parties conducting the security assessment.  
Public Mergers Register means the ACCC’s public register of merger clearances, 
available at www.accc.gov.au  
Public Section 87B Undertakings Register means the ACCC’s public register of 
section 87B undertakings, available at www.accc.gov.au 
Related Bodies Corporate has the meaning given to it by section 50 of the 
Corporations Act. 
Relevant Google API means the existing Google Fit APIs, described at: 
https://developers.google.com/fit, or any successor site, or a successor Google API 
that enables third-party applications and services to access and modify Measured 
Body Data subject to Google’s Terms of Service and offering substantially similar or 
increased functionality as the Fitbit Web API.  
Relevant Market has the meaning provided in clause 2.7 of this Undertaking. 
Service Level Access Documentation means a record of Google’s approval 
process for applying Access Permissioning to Google Services. 
Service Level Access Map means a record of all of the Google Services with 
service-level access pursuant to clause 5.3(c)(ii) and the storage locations in Google 
(eg a Temporary Log) in which those services store Measured Body Data or Health 
and Fitness Activity Location Data they may have accessed. 
Services User Data Policy means the user data policies applicable to the use of the 
Relevant Google API (eg the Google API User Data Policy available at 
https://developers.google.com/terms/api-services-user-data-policy and the Fit 
Developer Guidelines available at https://developers.google.com/fit/overview) as may 
be updated from time-to-time, for instance to comply with changes to applicable 
privacy laws or regulations. Any updates to the Services User Data Policy following 
the Commencement Date specific to access to the Relevant Google API must be 


 
 
21 
consistent with the spirit of the Web API Access Undertaking. Google will provide the 
Monitoring Trustee on a semiannual basis a list of the changes, if any, that have been 
made to the Services User Data Policy in the preceding six months. 
Supported Measured Body Data: as of the Commencement Date, Supported 
Measured Body Data consists of Measured Body Data collected from any global 
Google or Fitbit user (and not just from Australian Users) and made available to third 
parties through the Fitbit Web API under the Fitbit Platform Terms of Service. Such 
data types are listed in Schedule 7. The types of Measured Body Data that can 
constitute Supported Measured Body Data shall be updated pursuant to the Update 
Mechanism.  
Supported Measured Body Data excludes:  
(i) 
Data collected solely for the purpose of product testing or development for 
Google Services or Fitbit Services (including as part of healthcare partner 
collaborations or early access end user testing), health-related research 
efforts (such as clinical research studies), or to test compliance with this 
Undertaking or any other commitment provided to a competition authority in 
relation to the Proposed Acquisition; 
(ii) 
Data subject to applicable health or privacy laws and regulations that Google 
or Fitbit may not lawfully make available to third parties under such applicable 
laws;  
(iii) 
Data exclusively made available to users as part of a paid service (such as 
Fitbit Premium);  
(iv) 
Data collected separately by Verily, Calico or other separately operated 
Alphabet companies as part of their separate business and product activities;  
(v) 
Data collected from Google Services or Fitbit Services offered solely outside 
of Australia. 
Temporary Logs means a strictly permissioned, time-limited virtual dataset that 
contains Measured Body Data and/or Health and Fitness Activity Location Data that 
have been accessed by Google Services.  
Terms of Service means the terms of service applicable to the use of the Relevant 
Google API available at: https://developers.google.com/fit, or any successor site, as 
may be updated from time to time, for instance to comply with changes to applicable 
privacy laws or regulations. Any updates to the Terms of Service following the 
Commencement Date specific to access to the Relevant Google API must be 
consistent with the spirit of the Web API Access Undertaking. Google will notify the 
Monitoring Trustee of changes to these Terms of Service ten days prior to their 
becoming effective, unless the change is urgent in which case Google will notify the 
Monitoring Trustee as soon as reasonably practicable and no later than five days 
after such terms become effective. 
Third-Party Wrist-Worn Wearable Device means a Wrist-Worn Wearable Device 
that is designed by the third party to pair with an Android Smartphone and/or Google 
Smartphone and that is developed or manufactured by a Wrist-Worn Wearable 
Device OEM. 
Undertaking is a reference to all provisions of this document, including its schedules 
and as varied from time to time under section 87B of the Act. 
Update Mechanism: following the Commencement Date, Measured Body Data 
either (i) of a type listed in Schedule 5 as of the Commencement Date; or (ii) of a 
type newly made available after the Commencement Date to users in a Google or 


 
 
22 
Fitbit Health and Fitness App, will come to constitute Supported Measured Body Data 
if: (i) such data meets the conditions of Supported Measured Body Data set forth 
above; and (ii) an Equivalent Data Type is made available to developers without 
charge through publicly documented APIs by at least 3 of the 5 Benchmark OEMs. 
On a quarterly basis following the Commencement Date, Google will report to the 
Monitoring Trustee if a new data type meets the requirements in the preceding 
sentence. Such a data type will qualify as Supported Measured Body Data no later 
than one calendar year from the date of such reporting to the Monitoring Trustee, 
unless the data type met the requirements of the Update Mechanism within the first 
calendar year following the Commencement Date, in which case that data type will 
qualify as Supported Measured Body Data no later than two calendar years from the 
Commencement Date. Schedule 7 will be updated on a semi-annual basis or at the 
request of the Monitoring Trustee to include any additional types of Supported 
Measured Body Data that arose during that period. 
Web API Access Undertaking means the obligations set out in clauses 5.7 to 5.9 of 
this Undertaking. 
Wrist-Worn Wearable Device means any consumer wrist-worn wearable device that 
is compatible with an Android Smartphone and/or Google Smartphone and that 
processes data types that would qualify as Measured Body Data and/or Health and 
Fitness Activity Location Data if processed by Google or Fitbit. For the avoidance of 
doubt, this definition does not capture devices that are not sold or otherwise provided 
to customers for everyday use. 
Wrist-Worn Wearable Device OEM means any actual or potential supplier of Wrist-
Worn Wearable Devices other than the Parties. 
Part 2: Interpretation 
In the interpretation of this Undertaking, the following provisions apply unless the context 
otherwise requires: 
(a) 
a reference to this Undertaking includes all of the provisions of this document 
including its schedules; 
(b) 
headings are inserted for convenience only and do not affect the interpretation of this 
Undertaking;  
(c) 
if the day on which any act, matter or thing is to be done under this Undertaking is not 
a Business Day, the act, matter or thing must be done on the next Business Day; 
(d) 
a reference in this Undertaking to any law, legislation or legislative provision includes 
any statutory modification, amendment or re-enactment, and any subordinate 
legislation or regulations issued under that legislation or legislative provision;  
(e) 
a reference in this Undertaking to any company includes its Related Bodies 
Corporate; 
(f) 
a reference in this Undertaking to any agreement or document is to that agreement or 
document as amended, novated, supplemented or replaced; 
(g) 
a reference to a clause, part, schedule or attachment is a reference to a clause, part, 
schedule or attachment of or to this Undertaking; 
(h) 
an expression importing a natural person includes any company, trust, partnership, 
joint venture, association, body corporate or governmental agency; 


 
 
23 
(i) 
where a word or phrase is given a defined meaning, another part of speech or other 
grammatical form in respect of that word or phrase has a corresponding meaning; 
(j) 
a word which denotes the singular also denotes the plural, a word which denotes the 
plural also denotes the singular, and a reference to any gender also denotes the other 
genders; 
(k) 
a reference to the words 'such as’, ‘including’, ‘particularly' and similar expressions is 
to be construed without limitation; 
(l) 
a construction that would promote the purpose - or object - underlying the 
Undertaking (whether expressly stated or not) will be preferred to a construction that 
would not promote that purpose or object; 
(m) 
material not forming part of this Undertaking may be considered to 
(i) 
confirm the meaning of a clause is the ordinary meaning conveyed by the 
text of the clause, taking into account its context in the Undertaking and the 
competition concerns intended to be addressed by the Undertaking and the 
clause in question; or 
(ii) 
determine the meaning of the clause when the ordinary meaning conveyed 
by the text of the clause, taking into account its context in the Undertaking 
and the purpose or object underlying the Undertaking, leads to a result that 
does not promote the purpose or object underlying the Undertaking;  
(n) 
in determining whether consideration should be given to any material in accordance 
with paragraph (m), or in considering any weight to be given to any such material, 
regard must be had, in addition to any other relevant matters, to the: 
(i) 
effect that reliance on the ordinary meaning conveyed by the text of the 
clause would, have (taking into account its context in the Undertaking and 
whether that meaning promotes the purpose or object of the Undertaking); 
and 
(ii) 
need to ensure that the result of the Undertaking is to completely address 
any ACCC competition concerns; 
(o) 
the ACCC may authorise the ACCC Mergers Review Committee, a member of the 
ACCC or a member of the ACCC staff, to exercise a decision-making function under 
this Undertaking on its behalf and that authorisation may be subject to any conditions 
which the ACCC may impose;  
(p) 
in performing its obligations under this Undertaking, Google will do everything 
reasonably within its power to ensure that its performance of those obligations is done 
in a manner which is consistent with promoting the purpose and object of this 
Undertaking;  
(q) 
a reference to: 
(i) 
a thing (including, but not limited to, a chose in action or other right) includes 
a part of that thing; 
(ii) 
a party includes its successors and permitted assigns; and 
(iii) 
a monetary amount is in Australian dollars. 
 
 


 
 
24 
Schedule 2 – Data Points Google Will Document With Respect To Individual Access 
1. 
Individual’s name 
2. 
Individual’s Google ID 
3. 
Individual’s role 
4. 
Confirmation that individual is not in a reporting line related to Google Ads  
5. 
Reason for Individual receiving access  
6. 
Date of access 
Schedule 3 – Data Points Google Will Document With Respect to Service-Level Access 
1. 
Name of Google Service receiving access (eg Assistant) 
2. 
List of data types from Schedule 5 the Google Service can access from the Access 
Restricted Data Store 
3. 
Reasons for Google Service receiving access 
4. 
Start date of access 
5. 
The Google Service’s compliance proposal for adhering to the Data Protection System. This 
proposal will include at a minimum: 
(a) 
An explanation of the process through which the Google Service will ensure that 
accessed Measured Body Data and Health and Fitness Activity Location Data will be 
stored in an Access Restricted Data Store or, if it is stored outside an Access 
Restricted Data Store, will be stored in Temporary Logs  
(b) 
Type of storage location of such relevant data accessed by such a Google Service 
(eg in an Access Restricted Data Store, or Temporary Log(s)) 
(c) 
An updated version of the Service Level Access Map that accounts for any new 
storages of Measured Body Data or Health and Fitness Activity Location Data as a 
result of the new service level access  
(d) 
The Google Service’s retention and deletion plan with respect to the accessed 
Measured Body Data and Health and/or Fitness Activity Location Data 
(e) 
If such a service creates Temporary Logs, the documentation will include a link to the 
Google Service’s individual access documentation for such relevant Temporary Logs 
Schedule 4 – List of Minimum Audit Points 
1. 
All individuals appearing in Auditable Individual Logs appear in Individual Level Access 
Documentation  
2. 
All Individual Level Access Documentation provides a reason for access unrelated to Google 
Ads 
3. 
At the time of access, no individual with a reporting line running into Google Ads appears in 
Auditable Individual Logs. Google will provide the Monitoring Trustee with the reporting lines 
up to the Google CEO for all individuals appearing in Auditable Individual Logs drawn directly 
from Google’s Human Resource systems at the Monitoring Trustee’s request 


 
 
25 
4. 
All Google Services appearing in Auditable Service Logs appear in Service Level Access 
Documentation  
5. 
All Service Level Access Documentation provides a reason for the service receiving access 
that is unrelated to Google Ads  
6. 
All Service Level Access Documentation includes an adequate Google Services’ compliance 
proposal as described in Schedule 3  
7. 
No Google Ads service appears in Auditable Service Logs  
8. 
Following the Commencement Date, no Google Service has access to the Fitbit Web API or, if 
a service does, Google has provided to the Monitoring Trustee appropriate Service Level 
Access Documentation for that service prior to its gaining access. Google will provide the 
Monitoring Trustee with a list of all services having access to the Fitbit Web API drawn directly 
from Fitbit’s systems at the Monitoring Trustee’s request 
Schedule 5 – Indicative List of Current Data Types that Can Qualify as Measured Body Data and 
Health and Fitness Activity Location Data (as of 2 November 2020)  
Data Type 
Measured Body Data 
Health and 
Fitness Activity 
Location Data 
Heart Rate 
✔ 
 
Heart Rate Variability 
✔ 
 
Cardio Fitness Score 
✔ 
 
Time In Heart Rate Zones 
✔ 
 
Resting Heart Rate 
✔ 
 
VO2 Max Values 
✔ 
 
Electrocardiogram 
✔ 
 
Breathing Rate 
✔ 
 
Height 
✔ 
 
Stride Length 
✔ 
✔1 
Weight2 
✔ 
 
Body Mass Index 
✔ 
 
Body Fat Percentage 
✔ 
 
Steps 
✔ 
 
Distance 
✔ 
✔3 
Floors 
✔ 
 
Altitude 
✔ 
 
Calories 
✔ 
 
Basal Metabolic Rate (BMR) Calories 
✔ 
 
Activity Name 
✔ 
 
Activity Minutes (duration) 
✔ 
 
Activity Calories 
✔ 
 
Activity Distance 
✔ 
 
Activity Steps 
✔ 
 
                                                     
1  
When a Fitbit user tracks a run using Activity GPS, Stride Length is updated automatically. Stride Length thus may be partially 
derived from Activity GPS, which qualifies as Health and Fitness Activity Location data. 
2  
Includes “weight” that is part of the user’s profile information. 
3  
“Distance” is calculated by multiplying “steps” by “stride length”, and therefore may include input derived from “activity GPS”, 
which qualifies as Health and Fitness Activity Location Data. 


 
 
26 
Data Type 
Measured Body Data 
Health and 
Fitness Activity 
Location Data 
Activity Floors 
✔ 
 
Activity Altitude 
✔ 
 
Activity Heart Rate 
✔ 
 
Activity Speed 
✔ 
 
Activity GPS 
 
✔ 
Lightly Active Minutes 
✔ 
 
Moderately Active Minutes 
✔ 
 
Sedentary Minutes 
✔ 
 
Very Active Minutes 
✔ 
 
Active Zone Minutes 
✔ 
 
Swimming (length, stroke style) 
✔ 
 
Activity Pace 
✔ 
 
Menstrual Cycle Log  
✔ 
 
Menstrual Cycle Dates 
✔ 
 
Birth Control Log 
✔ 
 
Average Period Stats 
✔ 
 
Sleep Log (eg date, duration) 
✔ 
 
Sleep Efficiency4 
✔ 
 
Sleep Stages (eg timestamp, length) 
✔ 
 
Sleep Score 
✔ 
 
Blood Glucose 
✔ 
 
Water Intake  
✔ 
 
Food Log Item 
✔ 
 
Favorite Foods  
✔ 
 
Food Log Item Nutritional Information (eg calories, 
macronutrients) 
✔ 
 
Estimated Oxygen Variation 
✔ 
 
Blood Oxygen Saturation (SpO2) 
✔ 
 
Electrodermal Activity Responses 
✔ 
 
Body Temperature  
✔ 
 
Sickness Symptoms Log 
✔ 
 
Skin Temperature Variation 
✔ 
 
Meditation Minutes 
✔ 
 
Mood Reflection 
✔ 
 
Stress Management Score 
✔ 
 
Fitbit Coach Workouts (eg Workout Duration, Calories 
Burned) 
✔ 
 
Fitbit Coach Achievements 
✔ 
 
Badges derived from Measured Body Data or Health and 
Fitness Activity Location Data  
✔ 
 
Trophies derived from Measured Body Data or Health and 
Fitness Activity Location Data 
✔ 
 
 
 
                                                     
4  
Fitbit has not collected Sleep Efficiency since 2017. The Fitbit Web API nevertheless still calculates the data type (based on 
other sleep data) and it remains available to third parties. 


 
 
27 
Schedule 6 – Fast Track Dispute Resolution Procedure  
1 
An API User or Wrist-Worn Wearable Device OEM that wishes to avail itself of the fast track 
dispute resolution procedure (the “Requesting Party”) shall inform Google and the Monitoring 
Trustee in writing, setting out in detail the reasons leading the Requesting Party to believe that 
Google is failing to comply with the requirements in the Undertaking. The Requesting Party and 
Google will use commercially reasonable efforts to settle all disputes that may arise through 
cooperation and consultation within a reasonable period of time not exceeding fifteen working 
days (such period being extendable by mutual consent of Google and the Requesting Party) 
(“Consultation Period”) after receipt of the request. 
2 
The Monitoring Trustee shall present its own proposal (the “Trustee Proposal”) for resolving 
the dispute within eight working days, specifying in writing the rationale for the Trustee Proposal, 
and the action, if any, to be taken by Google in order to ensure compliance with the Undertaking 
vis-à-vis the Requesting Party.  
3 
Should the Requesting Party and Google (together, the “Parties to the Arbitration”) fail to 
resolve their differences of opinion in the Consultation Period, then the Requesting Party may, 
within 20 working days after the Consultation Period has expired, serve a notice (the “Notice”), 
in the sense of a request for arbitration, to the International Chamber of Commerce (the 
“Arbitral Institution”), with a copy of such Notice and request for arbitration to Google. 
4 
The Notice shall set out in detail the dispute, difference or claim (the “Dispute”) and shall 
contain, inter alia, all issues of both fact and law, including any suggestions as to the procedure, 
and all documents relied upon shall be attached, e.g., documents, agreements, expert reports, 
and witness statements. The Notice shall also contain a detailed description of the action to be 
undertaken by Google and the Trustee Proposal, including a comment as to its appropriateness. 
5 
Google shall, within ten working days from receipt of the Notice, submit its answer (the 
“Answer”), which shall provide detailed reasons for its conduct and set out, inter alia, all issues 
of both fact and law, including any suggestions as to the procedure, and all documents relied 
upon, e.g., documents, agreements, expert reports, and witness statements. The Answer shall, 
if appropriate, contain a detailed description of the action which Google proposes to undertake 
vis-à-vis the Requesting Party and the Trustee Proposal (if not already submitted), including a 
comment as to its appropriateness. 
Appointment of the Arbitrators 
6 
The Arbitral Tribunal shall consist of three persons. The Requesting Party shall nominate its 
arbitrator in the Notice; Google shall nominate its arbitrator in the Answer. The arbitrator 
nominated by the Requesting Party and by Google shall, within five working days of the 
nomination of the latter, nominate the chairman, making such nomination known to the parties 
and the Arbitral Institution which shall forthwith confirm the appointment of all three arbitrators. 
7 
Should the Requesting Party wish to have the Dispute decided by a sole arbitrator it shall 
indicate this in the Notice. In this case, the Requesting Party and Google shall agree on the 
nomination of a sole arbitrator within five working days from the communication of the Answer, 
communicating this to the Arbitral Institution. 
8 
Should Google fail to nominate an arbitrator, or if the two arbitrators fail to agree on the 
chairman, or should the Parties to the Arbitration fail to agree on a sole arbitrator, the default 
appointment(s) shall be made by the Arbitral Institution. 
9 
The three-person arbitral tribunal or, as the case may be, the sole arbitrator, are herein referred 
to as the “Arbitral Tribunal”. 


 
 
28 
Arbitration Procedure  
10 
The Dispute shall be finally resolved by arbitration under the International Chamber of 
Commerce Rules of Arbitration, with such modifications or adaptations as foreseen herein or 
necessary under the circumstances (the “Rules”). The arbitration shall be conducted in London, 
United Kingdom, in the English language. For good cause, any Party may apply to the Arbitral 
Institution (or Arbitral Tribunal as may be appropriate) for an extension of the timelines provided 
in this Schedule. 
11 
The procedure shall be a fast-track procedure. For this purpose, the Arbitral Tribunal shall 
shorten all applicable procedural time-limits under the Rules as far as admissible and 
appropriate in the circumstances. The Parties to the Arbitration shall consent to the use of email 
for the exchange of documents. 
12 
The Arbitral Tribunal shall, as soon as practical after the confirmation of the Arbitral Tribunal, 
hold an organisational conference to discuss any procedural issues with the Parties to the 
Arbitration. Terms of Reference shall be drawn up and signed by the Parties to the Arbitration 
and the Arbitral Tribunal at the organisational meeting or thereafter and a procedural time-table 
shall be established by the Arbitral Tribunal. An oral hearing shall, as a rule, be established 
within two months of the confirmation of the Arbitral Tribunal. 
13 
In order to enable the Arbitral Tribunal to reach a decision, it shall be entitled to request any 
relevant information from the Parties to the Arbitration, to appoint experts and to examine them 
at the bearing, and to establish the facts by all appropriate means. The Arbitral Tribunal is also 
entitled to ask for assistance by the Monitoring Trustee in all stages of the procedure if the 
Parties to the Arbitration agree. 
14 
The Arbitral Tribunal shall not disclose confidential information. The Arbitral Tribunal may take 
the measures necessary for protecting confidential information in particular by restricting access 
to confidential information to the Arbitral Tribunal, the Monitoring Trustee, and outside counsel 
and experts of the opposing party. 
15 
The burden of proof in any dispute under these Rules shall be borne as follows: (i) the 
Requesting Party must produce evidence of a prima facie case; and (ii) if the Requesting Party 
produces evidence of a prima facie case, the Arbitral Tribunal must find in favor of the 
Requesting Party unless Google can produce evidence to the contrary. 
Involvement of the ACCC  
16 
The ACCC shall be allowed and enabled to participate in all stages of the procedure by 
(a) 
Receiving all written submissions (including documents and reports, etc.) made by 
the Parties to the Arbitration; 
(b) 
Receiving all orders, interim and final awards and other documents exchanged by the 
Arbitral Tribunal with the Parties to the Arbitration (including Terms of Reference and 
procedural time-table); 
(c) 
Giving the ACCC the opportunity to file amicus curiae briefs; and 
(d) 
Being present at the hearing(s) and with the permission of the Arbitral Tribunal, it may 
also make oral observations. 
17 
The Arbitral Tribunal shall forward, or shall order the Parties to the Arbitration to forward, the 
documents mentioned to the ACCC without delay. 


 
 
29 
18 
In the event of disagreement between the Parties to the Arbitration regarding the interpretation 
of the Undertaking, the Arbitral Tribunal may seek the ACCC's interpretation of the Undertaking 
before finding in favour of any Party to the Arbitration and shall be bound by the interpretation 
in respect of the Undertaking. 
Decisions of the Arbitral Tribunal 
19 
The Arbitral Tribunal shall decide the dispute on the basis of the Undertaking. The Arbitral 
Tribunal shall take all decisions by majority vote. 
20 
Upon request of the Requesting Party, the Arbitral Tribunal may make a preliminary ruling on 
the Dispute. The preliminary ruling shall be rendered within one month after the confirmation of 
the Arbitral Tribunal, shall be applicable immediately and, as a rule, remain in force until a final 
decision is rendered. 
21 
The Arbitral Tribunal shall, in the preliminary ruling as well as in the final award, specify the 
action, if any, to be taken by Google in order to comply with the Undertaking vis-à-vis the 
Requesting Party (i.e., specify that the Requesting Party gain access to the relevant API). The 
final award shall be final and binding on the Parties to the Arbitration and shall resolve the 
Dispute and determine any and all claims, motions or requests submitted to the Arbitral Tribunal. 
The arbitral award shall also determine the reimbursement of the costs of the successful party 
and the allocation of the arbitration costs. In case of granting a preliminary ruling or if otherwise 
appropriate, the Arbitral Tribunal shall specify that terms and conditions determined in the final 
award apply retroactively. 
22 
The final award shall, as a rule, be rendered within six months after the confirmation of the 
Arbitral Tribunal. The time-frame shall, in any case, be extended by the time the ACCC takes 
to submit an interpretation of the Undertaking if asked by the Arbitral Tribunal. 
23 
The Parties to the Arbitration shall prepare a non-confidential version of the final award, without 
business secrets. The ACCC may publish the non-confidential version of the award. The Parties 
to the Arbitration, the Arbitral Tribunal, all other persons participating in the proceedings and all 
further persons involved, i.e. in the administration of the arbitral proceedings, shall maintain 
confidentiality towards all persons regarding the conduct of arbitral proceedings. All 
proceedings will be held in private and remain confidential. 
24 
Nothing in the arbitration procedure shall affect the power to the ACCC to take decisions in 
relation to the Undertaking in accordance with its powers under the Act. 
 
 
 


 
 
30 
Schedule 7 – Indicative List of Supported Measured Body Data (as of 2 November 2020)  
Supported Measured Body Data 
Heart Rate 
Time In Heart Rate Zones 
Resting Heart Rate 
Weight 
Height 
Body Mass Index 
Body Fat Percentage 
Steps 
Distance 
Floors 
Altitude 
Basal Metabolic Rate (BMR) Calories 
Calories 
Activity Name 
Activity Minutes (duration) 
Activity Calories 
Activity Speed 
Activity Pace 
Activity Steps 
Activity Floors 
Activity Altitude 
Activity Heart Rate 
Activity Distance 
Lightly Active Minutes 
Moderately Active Minutes 
Sedentary Minutes 
Very Active Minutes 
Swimming (length, stroke style) 
Sleep Log (eg date, duration) 
Sleep Stages (eg timestamp, length) 
Sleep Efficiency 
Water Intake 
Food Log Item 
Favorite Foods 
Food Log Item Nutritional Information (eg calories, macronutrients) 
 
