Page 1 of 25 
 
Statement of Issues 
18 June 2020 
 Google LLC – proposed acquisition of Fitbit Inc  
Purpose 
1. 
Google LLC (Google) proposes to acquire Fitbit Inc. (Fitbit) (the proposed 
acquisition).  
2. 
This Statement of Issues: 
• 
outlines the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC)’s 
preliminary views on competition issues arising from the proposed 
acquisition,  
• 
identifies areas of further inquiry, and 
• 
invites submissions from interested parties on particular issues. 
3. 
Statements of Issues do not refer to confidential information provided by the 
parties or other market participants and therefore may not necessarily represent 
a full articulation of the ACCC’s preliminary position. 
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views 
4. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is 
set out in section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. In general 
terms, section 50 prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to 
have the effect, of substantially lessening competition in any market. 
5. 
The ACCC divides its preliminary views into three categories, 'issues of concern', 
'issues that may raise concerns' and ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’. In this 
Statement of Issues there are two broad issues that may raise concerns across 
several relevant markets. 
6. 
Google is a significant supplier of consumer and business facing technology 
services with a substantial presence in multiple technology markets. Google’s 
accumulation of data from a variety of sources provides it with important 
economies of scope and contributes to its market power in a range of markets. 


Google – proposed acquisition of Fitbit 
 
Page 2 of 25 
The accumulation of additional, individual user data via this transaction in an 
entity which already benefits from substantial market power in multiple markets 
may contribute to reduced competitive outcomes in the future.  
7. 
In addition to barriers to entry and expansion caused by economies of scale and 
scope, and network effects, Google’s market position has been supported by its 
acquisition strategy. Google’s history of strategic acquisitions has enabled it to 
increase its touch points with consumers, accumulate additional data, and 
entrench and extend its market power, particularly into emerging markets. The 
ACCC recognises that competitive outcomes in technology markets are difficult 
to predict. For example, Google’s strong position in a range of advertising 
markets, which was perhaps originally unforeseen, was built on its accumulation 
of consumer data from sources such as online search. 
8. 
Google has been successful in offering valued consumer services on a range of 
devices from personal computers and tablets to smartphones. This has allowed 
Google to collect large volumes of high quality data and offer targeted 
advertising services. Current information suggests that wearables are an 
emerging channel or platform through which many services may be offered and 
data collected. This is exhibited by the expansion of many technology companies 
into wearables in recent years. Wearables are likely to be capable of many of the 
core functions currently undertaken by smartphones, particularly as the use of 
voice assistants and cellular connectivity increases. These features will 
increasingly allow users to make phone calls, send messages, conduct searches 
and control other devices from their wearable, whilst leaving their smartphone at 
home.  
9. 
Therefore, it is important to ensure that an acquisition at this stage in the 
development and adoption of wearables does not substantially lessen 
competition. An important factor is what may occur in the absence of the 
proposed acquisition, and whether alternative purchasers or investment in Fitbit 
would enable potential rivals to Google to emerge and challenge Google in both 
existing and newly developing markets. Whether the proposed transaction 
substantially lessens competition in any market does not need to be more likely 
than not – there just needs to be a real chance that it would occur. 
10. 
The ACCC understands that Fitbit’s data is unique. It is voluminous in depth and 
the nature of its customer base is such that it lends itself to having value for 
drawing health insights or for developing data-dependent health services. 
Feedback from the market is that other wearable datasets are not as 
voluminous, reliable or broad as Fitbit’s data. 
11. 
The ACCC notes Google’s public statement that ‘Fitbit health and wellness data 
will not be used for Google ads.’1 However, this commitment is not binding on 
Google and experience also suggests that intentions stated by an acquiring party 
at the time of an acquisition may well change over time. Therefore, the ACCC 
has not put significant weight on the statement in our competition assessment. 
 
                                                 
 
1 https://www.blog.google/products/hardware/agreement-with-fitbit/ 


Google – proposed acquisition of Fitbit 
 
Page 3 of 25 
Issues that may raise concerns 
Aggregation of data  
12. 
Google is the leader in the collection of a wide range of high quality consumer 
data as well as a market leader in artificial intelligence and data analysis.  
13. 
Google currently has more avenues from which to gather consumer data than 
any other company and this gives it a significant competitive advantage in many 
markets. The health and fitness data collected by Fitbit will provide Google with 
access to consumer data that is likely to be an important element of services in 
several markets.  
14. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition may have the 
effect of, or may be likely to have the effect of, substantially lessening 
competition in:  
a. 
the supply of data-dependent health services and/or  
b. 
the supply of certain ad tech services in Australia that rely on the collection 
and analysis of large amounts of individual data and in particular those 
services which enable targeting of online display advertising to consumer 
segments.2 
15. 
In relation to data-dependent health services, the ACCC is concerned that the 
acquisition may eliminate potential competition between Fitbit (either under 
current ownership or under alternative ownership) and Google. Google has a 
strong focus on new and developing markets and will likely become a strong 
competitor in the supply of data-dependent health services with or without the 
proposed acquisition. The health and fitness data collected by Fitbit puts Fitbit in 
a strong position to enter and compete in data-dependent health markets. The 
proposed acquisition eliminates this potential competition between Google and 
Fitbit. 
16. 
The ACCC is also considering the potential for the proposed acquisition to limit 
entry into data-dependent health markets as they evolve. The health and fitness 
data collected by Fitbit is likely to be an important resource for firms developing 
new and innovative services in these markets. In the absence of the acquisition, 
there is a greater likelihood that Fitbit will partner with other businesses 
endeavouring to develop these services. By reducing this likelihood, the 
proposed acquisition may lessen competition in these emerging markets. 
17. 
In relation to certain ad tech services, the ACCC is concerned about the potential 
for the acquisition to reduce the (limited) competitive constraint on Google 
                                                 
 
2 The ad tech services the ACCC is focussing on are: 
• 
Demand side platforms – platforms used by advertisers to help them purchase ad inventory from 
suppliers of ad inventory as effectively and cheaply as possible, and which utilise various data to 
provide ad targeting services 
• 
Supply-side platforms/ad exchanges – supply-side platforms are platforms used by publishers to 
maximise the price at which ad inventory is sold by setting price floors, determining what data to 
include in the auction and deciding which buyers can bid. Ad exchanges provide a platform for 
demand-side platforms and supply-side platforms to connect, often via a real-time bidding 
auction. The functions of supply-side platforms are increasingly integrated with those of ad 
exchanges. 


Google – proposed acquisition of Fitbit 
 
Page 4 of 25 
arising from the threat of expansion or new entry. The ACCC is focusing in 
particular on demand side platform (DSP) services. Google has market power in 
the supply of these services. This is underpinned by the considerable data 
advantages it holds over its rivals. The proposed acquisition will likely increase 
this advantage. By increasing this advantage, the proposed acquisition is likely 
to have the effect of reducing the commercial incentives for existing suppliers to 
‘take-on’ Google and reduce the commercial incentive for new entry. The likely 
effect will be to entrench Google’s market power in the supply of these ad tech 
services. 
18. 
The ACCC is also considering potential competition between Google and ad 
tech suppliers who may otherwise partner with Fitbit. The ACCC understands 
that the health and fitness data collected by Fitbit is likely to be useful in 
improving certain ad tech services, predominantly by allowing suppliers with 
existing information on individual online users to better target display advertising 
to those particular consumers. In the absence of the proposed acquisition, there 
is a greater likelihood that Fitbit  - either under current or alternative - ownership 
will enter partnerships to make its data available to alternative suppliers of ad 
tech services (subject to privacy laws). This will enable these suppliers to 
improve their advertising targeting and increase the competitive constraints on 
Google. The proposed acquisition eliminates this prospect. 
Ability and incentive for Google to foreclose competing wearable manufacturers 
19. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition may have the 
effect, or may be likely to have the effect, of substantially lessening competition 
in the supply of wearables. Google is a significant supplier of and controls some 
key inputs necessary for the supply of wearables, including Wear OS, Google 
Maps, the Google Play Store, and the Android smartphone operating system. 
Many third party wearable manufacturers rely on access to one or more of these 
Google products. The ACCC is concerned that the acquisition of Fitbit may 
provide Google with the incentive to foreclose or otherwise inhibit access to 
some of these products in order to increase the sales of its own wearables at the 
expense of its rivals. The ACCC is also concerned that if wearables are found to 
be important for another segment of Google’s business, (e.g. health, discussed 
further at paragraph 77) Google’s incentive to foreclose competing wearables 
may further increase. 
Issues unlikely to raise concerns 
20. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that there are three issues that are unlikely to 
raise concerns. The ACCC will continue to assess these issues, and consider 
submissions, however, the focus of our investigation is now on the issues of 
concern identified above. 
21. 
The three issues are set out below. 
Removal of potential competition in the sale of wearables 
22. 
In the absence of the proposed acquisition, Google may have entered the 
wearables market organically and competed against Fitbit. 
23. 
The ACCC is exploring whether the proposed acquisition removes this potential 
for future competition between Google and Fitbit. 


Google – proposed acquisition of Fitbit 
 
Page 5 of 25 
Impact on search and search advertising 
24. 
The proposed acquisition will provide Google with access to a set of additional 
user data collected from wearables, but it is unlikely that access to this type of 
data would have a significant impact on Google’s search and search advertising 
service offerings. 
25. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to 
substantially lessen competition in the supply of search or the supply of search 
advertising services. 
Overlap in mobile payment systems 
26. 
The proposed acquisition will remove competition between Fitbit and Google in 
the offer of mobile payment services, but the ACCC's preliminary view is that this 
is unlikely to substantially lessen competition in these markets as there are a 
number of alternative service providers and development of mobile payment 
systems for a wearables provider does not appear to be particularly difficult. 
Making a submission 
27. 
The ACCC is seeking submissions from interested parties, particularly on the 
following key issues: 
• 
The extent to which Fitbit’s data is unique and whether or not there are 
other sources of this data  
• 
The extent to which, in the absence of the proposed acquisition, Fitbit 
(either on its own or in partnership with others) and Google will compete or 
are likely to compete in the provision of data-related health services and 
certain ad tech services. 
• 
The likelihood that other competitors could constrain Google in the 
provision of data-related health services or certain ad tech services, post-
acquisition, and 
• 
The likelihood that the acquisition will alter Google’s incentives in relation 
to providing third party access to products such as Wear OS, Google Maps 
or the Google Play store.  
28. 
Interested parties should provide submissions by no later than 5pm on 
10 July 2020. Responses can be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: 
Submission re: Google/Fitbit - attention Braeden Smith/Nicholas Wellfare. If you 
would like to discuss the matter or have any questions, please contact Braeden 
Smith on 02 6243 4936 or Nicholas Wellfare on 02 9230 3813.  
29. 
The ACCC anticipates making a final decision on 13 August 2020, however, this 
timeline can change. To keep up to date with any developments, please check 
the ACCC’s Mergers Register at www.accc.gov.au/publicregisters/mergers-
registers/public-informal-merger-reviews. 


Google – proposed acquisition of Fitbit 
 
Page 6 of 25 
Confidentiality of submissions 
30. 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We 
will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) 
unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation 
or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition 
and Consumer Act 2010.  Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where possible so that you 
have an opportunity to be heard. Therefore, if the information provided is 
confidential, please indicate as such. Our Informal Merger Review Process 
Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’ 
31. 
A Statement of Issues is not a final decision about a proposed acquisition. A 
Statement of Issues outlines the ACCC’s preliminary views and identifies further 
lines of inquiry. 
32. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It also provides the merger 
parties and interested parties with the basis for making further submissions. 
Timeline 
 
Date 
Event 
27 February 
ACCC commenced review of the proposed 
acquisition 
18 June 
ACCC publication of Statement of Issues 
10 July 
Deadline for submissions from interested parties in 
response to this Statement of Issues 
13 August  
Anticipated date for ACCC final decision  
 
The parties 
Google 
33. 
Google is a wholly owned subsidiary of Alphabet Inc., a public company 
headquartered in Mountain View, California, and listed on the NASDAQ stock 
exchange. 
34. 
Google is active in a wide range of areas, including online search services 
(Google Search) and other online services such as YouTube, Google Maps and 
Gmail, as well as cloud computing services.  
35. 
Google is also very active in ad tech services, through the supply of: 


Google – proposed acquisition of Fitbit 
 
Page 7 of 25 
• 
search and display advertising inventory on Google owned and operated 
properties (such as Google Search and YouTube), and  
• 
ad tech services that facilitate the buying and selling of advertising 
inventory on Google owned and operated properties and on third party 
websites, including: 
• 
Google Ad Manager, which includes Google’s supply side platform, 
ad exchange and publisher ad server, and  
• 
Google Marketing Platform, which includes Google’s demand side 
platform, advertiser ad server and analytics tools.  
36. 
Google is present across the entire ad tech supply chain. Ad tech services, 
which rely on data to target advertisements at specific consumer segments, are 
discussed further below. 
37. 
Google also develops and maintains the Android ecosystem, which includes an 
open-source mobile operating system and a suite of mobile apps and services. 
As part of this, Google maintains and develops a licensable operating system for 
smartwatches (Wear OS) and a health and fitness app (Google Fit). 
38. 
Google does not currently offer any smartwatches or other wrist-worn wearable 
devices. Google markets a range of Android smart mobile phones (called Pixel), 
connected home devices (including Nest, Chromecast, and Google Home 
products), laptops (called Pixelbook), tablets (called Pixel Slate), gaming devices 
(called Stadia) and various accessories. 
39. 
Google also has an established presence in health, with Dr David Feinberg 
leading Google Health, bringing together “groups from across Google and 
Alphabet that are using AI, product expertise and hardware to take on big 
healthcare challenges”.3  
40. 
Specifically Alphabet, Inc. has been active in the healthcare industry with the 
following companies: 
• 
Verily Life Sciences – a research and development company that develops 
tools to collect and organise health data in order to predict and prevent 
disease onset and progression. It also works with other industry partners to 
provide healthcare delivery tools, such as specialised medical sensors, 
disease screening and prevention tools, as well as health platform and 
population health tools. Verily is known for the development of its Study 
Watch, a clinical tool intended to be used for the scalable collection of rich 
and complex datasets across clinical and observational studies, such as 
into Parkinson’s disease.  
• 
Calico Labs – a research and development company focused on aging and 
age-related diseases, such as neurodegeneration and cancer. 
• 
DeepMind – an artificial intelligence (AI) company acquired by Google in 
2014 before being shifted to operate under Alphabet, Inc. following a 
restructure in 2015. DeepMind has developed a number of AI research and 
mobile tools for use by patients and healthcare providers. 
                                                 
 
3 https://www.blog.google/technology/health/david-feinberg-google-health/ 


Google – proposed acquisition of Fitbit 
 
Page 8 of 25 
Fitbit 
41. 
Fitbit is a public company, headquartered in San Francisco, California, and listed 
on the New York Stock Exchange. Founded in 2007, Fitbit develops, 
manufactures and distributes wrist-worn wearable devices as well as smart 
scales, software and services.  
42. 
Fitbit is a significant supplier of wearables in Australia and globally. In FY19 Fitbit 
reported worldwide revenues of $1.43 billion, increased active users to a total of 
29.6 million and sold an additional 16 million devices. Despite this, it has made 
net operating losses over the past few years. 
43. 
Fitbit’s wearables run on its own proprietary operating systems. These are 
exclusively used on Fitbit’s devices and are not licensed to third parties. 
44. 
To complement its wearables, Fitbit has also developed the Fitbit mobile app. 
The app functions as a companion to a Fitbit wearable, allowing users to sync 
their wearable with their mobile phone. It also allows users to view metrics 
tracked through their Fitbit device. 
45. 
Fitbit offers health and wellbeing solutions to employers, insurers, and 
healthcare providers via its Health Solutions business.4 Fitbit’s Health Solutions 
business grew 17 per cent in FY19 to $95 million in revenue.5 
46. 
Fitbit also has a presence in data-related health services and takes part in a 
number of health studies. It has announced disease detection partnerships with 
a number of parties, including recently in May 2020 that it was launching a large 
scale study into atrial fibrillation.6 
Industry background 
Wearables 
47. 
A wearable generally refers to any technology that can be worn on a person’s 
body. However, for the purposes of this Statement of Issues wearables will refer 
to wrist-worn wearables. 
48. 
A wearable consists of two main components. These are the hardware (i.e. the 
device itself) and the operating system that it runs on it. 
Wearable devices 
49. 
There are two general sub-categories of wearables: fitness trackers and 
smartwatches. 
50. 
Fitness trackers are wrist-worn wearable devices that include sensor hardware 
that can measure users’ daily activity and health metrics, such as steps taken, 
                                                 
 
4 https://healthsolutions.fitbit.com/aboutus/ 
5https://investor.fitbit.com/press/press-releases/press-release-details/2020/Fitbit-Reports-2019-Fourth-
Quarter-and-Full-Year-Results/default.aspx 
6https://investor.fitbit.com/press/press-releases/press-release-details/2020/Fitbit-Announces-Large-Scale-
Study-to-Identify-Atrial-Fibrillation/default.aspx 


Google – proposed acquisition of Fitbit 
 
Page 9 of 25 
heartrate, oxygen saturation in the blood, calories burned, distance travelled, 
sleep quality and active minutes. 
51. 
Smartwatches are wearable computers in the form of a wristwatch. 
Smartwatches typically have a larger screen and more computing power than 
fitness trackers. Like fitness trackers, smartwatches monitor and record users’ 
daily activity and health metrics, but they typically provide additional functionality 
such as communication or entertainment functions. Smart watches can be 
relatively basic and inexpensive, or be feature rich and expensive, based on a 
number of hardware and software factors. 
52. 
Fitbit currently sells devices that fit into both of these categories. 
Operating systems 
53. 
An operating system is the software that supports a wearable’s basic functions. 
There are three options for manufacturers:  
• 
developing their own wearable operating system from scratch 
• 
using an open source operating system, which involves using a basic 
operating system developed by a third party and modifying it to match the 
needs of a specific device, or  
• 
licensing an operating system, which involves entering an agreement with 
the owner of an existing operating system for access to/use of that system. 
Licensees may be restricted from altering the licensed operating system or 
accessing collected data. 
Other industry participants 
54. 
In addition to Fitbit, there are a number of other manufacturers of wearables. 
Prominent manufacturers 
55. 
Apple manufactures a smartwatch called the Apple Watch. Apple Watches from 
Series 3 onwards include models with cellular connectivity. Other features 
available on Apple Watches include sensors to measure blood-oxygen levels 
and ECG, a compass, and fall detection. Apple’s products all run on Apple’s own 
operating system, watchOS. 
56. 
Samsung currently markets fitness trackers and smartwatches. Some of 
Samsung’s smartwatches include cellular connectivity. Samsung’s wearables 
predominantly run on Samsung’s Tizen operating system. 
57. 
Garmin produces wearable bands and smartwatches for activities such as 
fitness, running, golf, water sports, and swimming. These products contain 
features such as GPS, heart rate monitors, Bluetooth music playback, maps, 
NFC payment, and pulse-oximetry. Garmin’s wearable products operate on 
Garmin’s own operating system, Garmin OS.  


Google – proposed acquisition of Fitbit 
 
Page 10 of 25 
Other manufacturers 
58. 
Xiaomi has traditionally focussed on low-cost fitness trackers. However, in 
November 2019 it launched its first smartwatch which has cellular connectivity. 
Xiaomi’s devices have traditionally run on its proprietary OS, however it has 
recently launched a device using Wear OS. 
59. 
Huawei offers both low-cost fitness trackers as well as smartwatches. Huawei 
has previously used Wear OS on its devices but is switching to its own operating 
system Harmony OS. 
60. 
Fossil offers a range of smartwatches under the brand names Fossil, Emporio 
Armani, Diesel, Tory Birch, Skagen and Michael Kors. Fossil’s watches use 
Wear OS.  
Data collected by wearables 
61. 
A wearable constantly collects data on a user that is unique to them, over and 
above the data automatically collected by other devices such as from use of a 
personal computer or a smartphone. The additional data collected includes, but 
is not limited to, heart rate, heart rate variability,  calories, and oxygen saturation. 
In addition to different types of data, models that are enabled with GPS will also 
collect location data on a user, even when they do not have their smartphone 
with them. For example, when they are exercising. 
62. 
The primary use of health data collected from a wearable is to provide the user 
with their health information. This generally occurs through data being sent to a 
wearables companion app, usually downloaded onto a smartphone. This allows 
a user to see all their information in one location and compare their information 
against their goals. 
63. 
A user also has the option to allow third party apps to access the data that is 
collected by their wearable. This may be done to track exercise, nutrition or other 
aspects of health. This third party access can typically only occur with the user’s 
consent. 
64. 
There are other ways in which a user’s data can be utilised, including in 
advertising and health related markets. 
Advertising and ad tech services 
65. 
Online advertising can be broadly divided into three categories: 
• 
Search advertising, which appears alongside search results when a user 
performs a search query on a general search engine (such as Google or 
Bing) or a specialised search engine (such as Amazon or Expedia) 
• 
Classified advertising, which appear on general classifieds websites (such 
as Gumtree and Trading Post) or specific classifieds websites (such as 
Seek or Domain), and 
• 
Display advertising, which refers to all other types of online advertising, 
including advertising in banners or videos on webpages, in mobile apps, 
and alongside social media content. 


Google – proposed acquisition of Fitbit 
 
Page 11 of 25 
Value of data in online advertising  
66. 
Data has an important role in the supply of online advertising, and can be used 
as an input or to observe the outcomes of online advertising. For example, data 
enables a supplier of advertising inventory (i.e. the publisher of a website), or an 
intermediary that facilitates the supply of online advertising, to target ads to 
particular users who are most likely to find the ads relevant or interesting.  
67. 
Data also allows an advertiser or supplier to analyse the effectiveness of an ad, 
and measure the ad’s impact on consumers and the return on investment for the 
advertiser. The ACCC has received consistent feedback that rich datasets are 
key to providing high quality ad tech services. Market participants consider that 
the scale and scope of the data collected by Google across its owned and 
operated sites and third party sites mean that Google is a critical provider of the 
ad tech services which enable the delivery of targeted advertising. 
68. 
User data, such as that collected by a wearable, is one data source which could 
be used in the supply of online display advertising to target specific consumers. 
Other user data includes demographic data (such as age and gender) and 
behavioural data (for example, a user’s browsing history and how often the user 
uses social media). It can be collected from a number of sources, including 
manual input by a user when registering for a new product or service and/or the 
user’s activity when using a product or service, such as use of a wearable. 
69. 
User data is distinct from search data, which is data gathered from search 
queries entered by users of a search service. Search data usually provides clear 
information about a user’s desires; compared to user data, it is more likely to 
reveal user intent at a particular point in time. 
70. 
Google currently collects data via its owned and operated platforms and also 
collects “off-platform” data, including via APIs and software development kits 
from website or app which use Google services.  
Ad tech services 
71. 
Figure 1 below provides a simplified diagram of the transaction between 
advertisers, publishers, and consumers in online advertising.  
Figure 1: Simplified diagram of transactions between advertisers, publishers and consumers 
 
72. 
The ad tech supply chain involves a complex network of intermediaries and 
platforms that provide technologies and/or data to facilitate the programmatic 
sale and purchase of digital display advertising inventory. 


Google – proposed acquisition of Fitbit 
 
Page 12 of 25 
73. 
Two of the key participants in the ad-tech supply chain are Ad 
exchanges/supply-side platforms (SSPs)7 and demand-side platforms (DSPs). 
SSPs are platforms used by publishers to maximise the price at which ad 
inventory is sold by conducting an auction for the sale of that inventory, setting 
price floors, determining what data to include in the auction and deciding which 
buyers can bid. DSPs are platforms used by advertisers to target advertisements 
at those consumers most likely to buy their products and services and to help 
them purchase ad inventory from suppliers as effectively and cheaply as 
possible. 
74. 
In addition to data being utilised by supply and demand side platforms, there are 
a number of specific data-related service providers that support the ad tech 
supply chain. These includes data management platforms, data analytics service 
providers, ad verification and measurement service providers, and data brokers. 
These service providers perform varying roles including: storing, managing and 
analysing data sets, measuring the performance of advertising campaigns, 
ensuring brand safety, and providing additional data that supplements data 
collected first-hand.  
75. 
In order to successfully target advertisements at consumers, it is important to 
have the ability to track and identify a user across the internet or across devices. 
This is because the data becomes most useful when an advertiser is able to 
track the activities of an individual and understand more about the development 
of their intentions to purchase a product. This tracking and identification of users 
across the internet or across devices is done via a number of methods including 
the use of unique IDs, user log-ins, and cookies.  
76. 
Generally speaking, each ad tech service provider will identify individuals in 
different ways, i.e. different ad tech platforms from different providers can have 
different unique IDs for the same individual. The ability to track and target 
individuals therefore often depends on unique IDs being recognised between 
providers of demand side platforms and providers of supply side platforms. This 
is often referred to as a ‘match rate’.  
77. 
Tracking and identification is easier for providers that operate platforms on both 
the supply and demand side (such as Google). This is because an individual’s 
ID/log-in/cookie would likely be the same across that provider’s platforms, 
leading to better match rates. The ACCC is considering whether matching data 
in this way leads to advantages not just in ad tech services supporting the 
delivery of targeted advertising, but also in other markets in which the ACCC has 
concerns, such as health services. 
Health services 
78. 
Data collected from wearables can also be used in health services applications, 
providing insights into both: 
• 
individual users for which that data is collected (subject to applicable 
privacy laws). This may assist in the provision of healthcare solutions such 
as tailored health management services. 
                                                 
 
7 The ACCC notes that supply side platforms are increasingly being integrated with ad exchanges. As 
such, the term SSP will be used to refer to the combined SSP and ad exchange service. 


Google – proposed acquisition of Fitbit 
 
Page 13 of 25 
• 
broader insights into different types of users, categories of users or 
consumers with specific attributes or health conditions. This may assist in 
the development of related products or services for specific health 
conditions or to address wider population health. 
79. 
Such applications include the following: 
• 
Health and wellness improvement 
• 
Health management, analytics and insights 
• 
Diagnostic or prognostic tools 
Further information regarding these applications is provided in paragraphs 88 
to 103 below. 
The proposed transaction 
80. 
Google proposes to acquire 100% of the issued and outstanding shares in Fitbit 
for a total value of approximately US$2.1 billion.  
Issues that may raise concerns: aggregation of data  
81. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition may lead to significant 
competition issues in the supply of a number of different services that rely on 
consumer data. 
82. 
The parties have submitted that the acquisition rationale is not premised on data, 
rather to facilitate Google’s entry into wearables. The ACCC also notes Google’s 
public statement that “Fitbit health and wellness data will not be used for Google 
ads”.8 However, this commitment is not binding. 
83. 
Google holds and collects an extensive amount of high quality consumer data. 
This includes data from registered user sign ups, Google platforms, Android and 
Google devices, payment and the internet of things9 as well as off-platform data 
from websites or apps which utilise Google services. Google combines many of 
these data points to develop unique profiles of individual users which are in-turn 
used to supply a range of services, including ad tech services which assists the 
delivery of targeted advertising.  
84. 
The ACCC understands that individual health and fitness data (such as 
continuous heartrate and sleep monitoring) will supplement the existing data 
points that Google collects from consumers. Whilst Google already collects step 
count data through the Google Fit App on smartphones, the data collected by 
that app does not automatically include heart rate and sleep monitoring and 
contains significantly less data points than Fitbit’s dataset. Acquiring Fitbit would 
provide Google with one of the largest and most detailed existing fitness and 
health datasets, as well as another avenue through which it can continue to 
gather consumer data. 
                                                 
 
8 https://www.blog.google/products/hardware/agreement-with-fitbit/ 
9 See ACCC Digital Platforms Inquiry, Final Report, June 2019, pp 86-87 


Google – proposed acquisition of Fitbit 
 
Page 14 of 25 
85. 
Google is also a market leader in artificial intelligence and machine learning. 
Google currently leverages this expertise and its high volumes of high quality 
data to improve the delivery of many of its products, including search, video 
platforms, ad tech services, health and cloud computing.  
86. 
Post-acquisition, Google will be able to incorporate the Fitbit data into its existing 
user profiles enabling greater targeting of advertisements, particularly for online 
display advertisements. Google will likely also utilise the data at an aggregate 
level, using its analytical tools to draw broader insights about groups of people 
(beyond just Fitbit users) with specific attributes, then apply these insights across 
different parts of its business.10 These broader insights may lead to applications 
in the supply of data-dependent health services.  
87. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition may substantially lessen 
competition in both the supply of various data-dependent health services and 
certain ad tech services.  
Data-dependent health services 
88. 
The ACCC is concerned about the impact of the proposed acquisition on 
competition in the supply of data-dependent health services. The ACCC is still 
closely considering the precise services and markets that could be impacted but 
understands that wearable data in particular is likely to be useful in the provision 
of:  
• 
advice to wearables users to mitigate risk of illness, enhance wellness, or 
assist with condition management. 
• 
commercial insights to business customers, including insurance companies 
wishing to compile risk profiles, reduce costs, or enhance productivity. 
• 
diagnostics or prognostics tools, either directly to consumers through 
consumer facing applications, or to medical institutions/practitioners 
• 
analytics or data to pharmaceutical companies seeking to determine how 
best to allocate their research and development budget. 
• 
insights or raw data to health researchers, including medical researchers 
(both private and public), and/or academics. 
89. 
Examples of such applications are provided below.  
Health and wellness improvement 
90. 
Wearables devices provide a source of health data which allows for the ongoing 
monitoring of a consumer’s health signals. Tracking of this data can assist the 
delivery of ongoing health and wellness improvement in more tailored ways. 
Access to this type of data, combined with expertise in analytics or machine 
learning allows for the delivery of many types of consumer facing health and 
wellness services, such as apps that provide regular and tailored health advice 
or wellness tips. 
                                                 
 
10 Whilst there are restrictions under privacy laws in Australia and overseas that offer protections over the 
use of personal information, particularly sensitive personal information like health data, privacy laws 
generally do not restrict the use of aggregated or otherwise de-identified data. 


Google – proposed acquisition of Fitbit 
 
Page 15 of 25 
Health measurement, analytics and insights for business 
91. 
A number of wearable manufacturers also have agreements with business 
customers. These involve the businesses providing the manufacturer’s 
wearables to their members, customers or employees either at a discount or for 
free. 
92. 
The data collected by these wearables can then be used by the business to gain 
a better understanding of the health and lifestyle of each member, customer or 
employee. As a result, they may be able to reduce costs (e.g. for insurers) or 
enhance performance (e.g. for employers) by incentivising certain behaviours. 
Incentives may take the form of premium discounts for an insurance policy. 
Diagnostic or prognostic tools 
93. 
Currently, wearable devices are typically regarded as a consumer item. 
However, there is a move towards them also being used as medical devices and 
in the future they may become more widely used in medical contexts. Health 
data collected by wearable devices could be, and in the case of health 
studies/artificial intelligence is, used in a number of ways, including: 
• 
Early detection of chronic diseases – a user may have the option to 
provide the data from their wearable to their doctor. From this data, a 
doctor may be able to determine any early indicators of a chronic disease, 
such as diabetes, in their patient. They may be able to put in place a plan 
to prevent such a disease or undertake early steps to limit the impact that it 
will have on the user. 
• 
Tracking a patient’s recovery – once a patient receives treatment, for 
example a knee reconstruction, their doctor or physiotherapist may be able 
to track their recovery by following their progress. This may include 
sending exercises to a user’s device or tracking the amount of activity or 
nutrition of a patient post operation. This may reduce the risk of any 
complications post-treatment and allow for quick and easy changes to a 
patient’s recovery plan. 
• 
Health studies – health data collected from studies can be used to inform 
researchers of the potential effects of treatment plans for diseases, which 
may then be able to be implemented in the general population. 
• 
Artificial Intelligence – health data may be used to help develop, train or 
test algorithms which may assist the development of various tools, such as 
to assist or inform online diagnosis. For example, a software application 
may be developed to allow patients the choice to not see a doctor at first 
instance and may instead be able to insert their symptoms online and be 
provided with a treatment plan or told whether they need to go visit a 
doctor.  
Nature of nascent data-dependent health services 
94. 
The ACCC understands that these are fledgling markets, but with the potential 
for high growth in the near future. Current information also suggests that 
competitors in these markets are likely to be significantly advantaged if they 
have access to comprehensive data from wearable devices. The insights gained 
from such databases are differentiated and have additional value to what other 
conventional service providers in these markets are able to provide. 


Google – proposed acquisition of Fitbit 
 
Page 16 of 25 
95. 
For instance: 
• 
for advice to wearables users, access to a large store of historical health 
data, particularly longitudinal health data, may facilitate accurate 
predictions of the effect of certain behaviours, or patterns of behaviour, 
on health outcomes and of the efficacy of different kinds of intervention. 
For example, advice provided by such a data-holder might be higher 
quality, and delivered in a form more likely to result in sustained 
behavioural change. Improvements here may be important to other kinds 
of health services – for example in demonstrating to business customers 
or healthcare providers that a wearable-based solution is effective. 
• 
in the case of business customers, the ACCC understands that a number 
of health insurance companies and employers in Australia and around 
the world have formed commercial partnerships with wearables 
providers. These partnerships are unique and distinct from any risk 
profiling or mitigation techniques that health insurers and employers have 
engaged in previously. The additional wide ranging data available on a 
user specific basis may allow for better insights into risk profiling and 
pricing and early intervention advice. Thus the increase in adoption of 
such partnerships. 
• 
In the case of developing medical tools, a large robust set of historical 
health data from wearables and the analysis of this data may be 
instrumental for the development of diagnostics or prognostic tools. For 
example, by enabling holders of this data to analyse correlations between 
stress, weight, activity and sleep patterns to develop a software 
application or other medical tools to help predict, detect, or manage 
health problems like diabetes before they become chronic. The ACCC 
understands that such insights may not be possible with traditional 
clinical testing data. 
96. 
The ACCC understands that Fitbit and Google, either through its business 
division Google Health or through related entities such as Verily, are active in, or 
potential entrants to these markets. In particular, the ACCC understands that 
Google has made significant advances in disease detection and in recent years 
its parent company Alphabet has filed a large number of patents in the 
healthcare industry.  
97. 
Fitbit currently engages with employers, health plans, health systems, and 
researchers via its Fitbit Health Solutions business. For example, Fitbit currently 
partners with 70 of the Fortune 500,11 as well as with a number of corporate 
wellness providers.12 Some insurers (including in Australia)13 offer programs 
allowing policyholders to track activity using Fitbit devices to access rewards or 
discounts. Fitbit lists over 900 research studies in its online publication library.14   
                                                 
 
11 https://healthsolutions.fitbit.com/ 
12 https://healthsolutions.fitbit.com/partners/ 
13 https://www.aiavitality.com.au/vmp-au/partners/fitbit#/about, 
https://www.medibank.com.au/livebetter/rewards/earn/shop/ 
14 https://healthsolutions.fitbit.com/research-library/ 


Google – proposed acquisition of Fitbit 
 
Page 17 of 25 
98. 
The merger parties have submitted that although they are present in health 
generally, each is focused on quite separate areas. Google submits that its 
business is focused on clinical facing tools, whereas Fitbit is focused on 
providing health related analysis for the benefit of its users. Therefore, it 
submitted that there is no current or potential competitive horizontal overlap.  
99. 
First, the ACCC is concerned about both the loss of potential competition, as 
well the loss of any existing competition between Fitbit and Google in these 
fledgling markets. Whilst the two parties may not appear to be currently 
competing head to head, information available to the ACCC suggests that this 
may be likely in the future. In particular the ACCC considers that Google is likely 
to continue to grow its presence in these markets, with or without the proposed 
acquisition. It is also likely that Fitbit has the potential to grow in the supply of 
these services, whether organically or through partnership with a party other 
than Google. Therefore in the absence of the acquisition, and given that Fitbit is 
a leading source of this data, Google is likely to face stronger competition in 
these markets. 
100. Second, the ACCC is concerned that the combination of the consumer data 
currently accessible to Google, its analytical capability and Fitbit’s data, may 
result in Google developing a strong foothold in such emerging markets. Such a 
presence may make it commercially less attractive for potential providers to 
enter such markets, limiting the level of competition in these markets.  
The importance of Fitbit’s data 
101. The ACCC understands that Fitbit’s data has unique attributes. It is large, in 
depth and the nature of its customer base is such that it lends itself to having 
value for drawing health insights or for developing data-dependent healthcare 
solutions. Feedback from the market is that other wearable datasets are not as 
voluminous, reliable or broad as Fitbit’s data. 
102. The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation 
to the advantages that Fitbit data may provide Google’s health business. In 
particular, market participants may wish to comment on the following: 
• 
How useful the addition of health data of the kind held by Fitbit (heart rate, 
sleep, steps, etc.) is to the provision of health services?  
• 
What types of health services would benefit from access to health data of the 
kind held by Fitbit and how will those health services benefit from access to this 
data?  
• 
Are there alternative sources of health data available in the market? How 
unique is Fitbit’s data relative to alternative sources of health data?  
• 
Is there anything unique about Google, which makes the aggregation of Fitbit 
data with Google’s data more likely to result in Google obtaining an advantage 
in the provision of health services? 
• 
What may be the potential impact (if any) of Google obtaining such advantages 
on future entry and rivalry in the provision of health services? 


Google – proposed acquisition of Fitbit 
 
Page 18 of 25 
Ad tech services 
103. Based upon our inquiries to date, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the 
proposed acquisition may have the effect, or may be likely to have the effect, of 
substantially lessening competition in the supply of certain ad tech services.  
Relevant markets 
104. Separate and in parallel to its review of the proposed acquisition, the ACCC is 
currently conducting an inquiry into markets for the supply of ad tech services 
and digital advertising agency services (the Ad Tech Inquiry).15 That inquiry will 
consider a range of issues, including the extent of market power in markets for 
ad tech services. 
105. While the ACCC has not reached a firm view of the boundaries of potential 
markets, the ACCC considers that there are likely to be multiple markets 
involving the supply of ad tech services. These markets provide for, or assist 
with, the automated buying, selling and delivery of digital display advertising 
services. As discussed above, display ads are distinct from search and classified 
ads and include advertising in banners or videos on webpages, in mobile apps, 
and alongside social media content.  
106. Google is active across the entire ad tech supply chain, including in the supply of 
DSP services to advertisers and SSP services to websites. These services are 
highly dependent on accurate targeting of consumers, which is predominantly 
based on data and the ability to track and identify users across the internet and 
devices.  
107. There are other competitors in this market including DSPs such as MediaMath, 
AppNexus, Adobe and Trade Desk, and SSPs such as Pubmatic and Rubicon 
Project. However; estimates suggest that Google’s share of demand side 
platform services and supply side platform services may be as high as 63 per 
cent, with the next largest competitor having a share as low as 8 per cent.16 In 
addition, no other competitors appear to have the broad coverage across the ad 
tech supply chain that Google does. 
108. In recent years, the advertising sector’s reliance on data has drastically 
increased, alongside the opportunity for advertisers to serve targeted ads in real 
time, taking into account factors such as individual user interests, browsing 
history, time, location, and website content. This programmatic approach to 
targeted advertising happens on an automated basis and relies on the provision 
of ad tech services.  
109. The ACCC considers that Google already holds a significant position in ad tech 
services, with many of its competitors being much smaller in size and limited in 
their ability to provide as broad a range of services as Google. Google has 
developed detailed profiles of individual users, with information about particular 
                                                 
 
15 On 10 February 2020, the Australian Government directed the ACCC to hold an inquiry into the 
markets for the supply of digital advertising technology services and digital advertising agency services. 
The ACCC is required to provide an interim report on 31 December 2020 and a final report on 31 August 
2021.  
16 https://www.datanyze.com/market-share/dsp--65  


Google – proposed acquisition of Fitbit 
 
Page 19 of 25 
user’s search history, browsing, location and other items of demographic and 
personal information relating to the individual. This data, as well as other factors 
have assisted Google’s position in the provision of these services.  
110. ACCC is concerned that, despite Google’s public statement, it will, in the future, 
have the incentive to: 
• 
seek to supplement its existing data on individual users with Fitbit data, 
and/or 
• 
use aggregate information from the Fitbit data in order to ascertain further 
insights about the preferences of user groups that have particular attributes 
or improve the accuracy of its current attributions for such groups. 
The addition of Fitbit’s data will likely strengthen Google’s position in the supply 
of DSP services  
111. Some market participants have submitted that certain wearables data is unique, 
particularly compared to other data sources such as smartphones, credit card 
spending patterns and data collected from website cookies. The data from 
wearables includes metrics that cannot be captured as accurately, or in some 
cases at all, by other means. These metrics include heart rate, heart rate 
variability, sleep activity and oxygen saturation. 
112. The ACCC understands that these distinct data points may enable analysis that 
delivers unique insights about users, for example health patterns or behavioural 
traits.  
113. In addition to these foreseeable insights, the ACCC has also heard concerns 
regarding further insights that could be gained through, for example: 
• 
correlations between Fitbit’s data and Google’s pre-existing database,  
• 
broader applications of the insights gained about individual users to a 
larger group of users. 
114. These correlations are likely to be useful for targeted advertising and therefore 
the provision of DSP services. For example, post-acquisition it is likely that 
Google will be able to even more effectively target advertising to consumers with 
health-related issues, or interests in particular fitness products. These 
correlations may also allow Google’s SSP/ad-exchange services to send out 
more detailed (and hence more valuable) requests for bids from DSPs in respect 
of those customers. 
115. Google submits that the Fitbit data would have very limited use in targeted 
advertising, as it represents only a very small portion of the overall population 
accessing online ads, and is only relevant to ads for health and fitness products. 
Of which, Google also submits, there are multiple other available datasets which 
convey this information in more meaningful ways, such as consumers browsing 
history and app access. 
116. In addition to the usefulness of wearable data in general, the ACCC understands 
that Fitbit’s data is particularly valuable and also unique. Market participants 
have pointed to a number of factors (for example, an excellent time series) that 
differentiates Fitbit’s data from competing wearables.  


Google – proposed acquisition of Fitbit 
 
Page 20 of 25 
117. The ACCC understands that as the time series of a dataset like Fitbit’s 
increases, further more useful correlations can be drawn between changes in the 
data series over time. For example, the longer a time series a dataset has, the 
easier it is to establish a baseline to draw comparisons against instances that 
deviate from the baseline. The ACCC notes that Fitbit itself advertises on its 
website that it holds one of the largest databases of validated health data in the 
world, with over 181 billion hours of heart rate, 9 billion nights of sleep, 457 
billion minutes of exercise, 175 trillion steps and 10 million added female health 
tracking data.17  
118. The ACCC also understands that Fitbit’s dataset may be significantly more 
accurate than other wearable providers, as both Fitbit’s sensors and sensor 
analysis software is generally considered to be superior to many other 
wearables. 
119. Competitors to Google in the supply of ad tech services have submitted that data 
equivalent to that held by Fitbit is currently not available from third parties. 
Further, other potential sources are likely to have reliability issues which would 
likely make them considerably less useful than Fitbit’s.  
120. The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition may eliminate an 
important source of potential competition for Google in the supply of certain ad 
tech services including, in particular DSP services. Google has market power in 
the supply of certain ad tech services, which is underpinned by considerable 
data advantages it holds over its rivals. The proposed acquisition will likely 
increase this advantage. This in will likely have the effect of reducing the 
commercial incentives for existing suppliers to ‘take on’ Google, as well as 
reduce the commercial incentive for new entry. Thus Google’s position of market 
power will be entrenched.  
121. The proposed acquisition also eliminates the prospect that current rivals of 
Google will partner, or otherwise enter a commercial arrangement, with Fitbit to 
use its health and fitness data to improve their offerings to advertisers and 
intermediaries. This concern is heightened by the unique characteristics of the 
Fitbit data.  
122. The potential for the proposed acquisition to lessen competition in the supply of 
certain ad tech services including, in particular DSP services, is increased by the 
scope for Google to handicap (some) rivals in the supply of wearables. As noted 
below, Google controls some key inputs necessary for the viability of certain 
wearables suppliers to compete in the supply of wearables, including Wear OS, 
Google Maps, Google Play Store, and/or the Android smartphone operating 
system. To the extent Google uses this control to handicap (some) rivals in the 
supply of wearables, it may reduce the opportunities for providers of ad tech 
services to team up with rival suppliers of wearables to access health and fitness 
data that may be comparable to the Fitbit data.  
123. The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns that 
Google acquiring Fitbit will likely result in a substantial lessening of completion in 
the supply of certain ad tech services, and in particular DSP services. In 
particular market participants may wish to comment on the following: 
                                                 
 
17 https://healthsolutions.fitbit.com/whyfitbit/ 


Google – proposed acquisition of Fitbit 
 
Page 21 of 25 
• 
How useful the addition of health data of the kind held by Fitbit (heart rate, sleep, 
steps, etc.) is to the provision of targeted advertising? 
• 
Are there alternative sources of health data available in the market? How unique is 
Fitbit’s data relative to alternative sources of health data?  
• 
What may be the potential impact (if any) of Google obtaining such advantages on 
future entry and rivalry in the provision of ad tech services? 
Issues that may raise concerns: ability and incentive for 
Google to foreclose competing wearables producers 
124. As stated in the ACCC’s Merger Guidelines, the ACCC is concerned where a 
combined entity has the ability and incentive to use its position in one market to 
foreclose rivals in another market in a way that lessens competition.18  
125. Whilst Google does not currently manufacture a wearable, Google does currently 
provides a number of inputs into the wearables market. Post-acquisition Google 
will become a competing manufacturer of wearables. The ACCC is concerned 
that this may alter Google’s incentives in distributing or providing access to a 
number of its existing products used by other suppliers of wearables. At this 
stage, the ACCC is concerned about rival wearables continuing to have access 
on the same terms to Wear OS, Google Maps, the Google Play store and 
interoperability with Android phone software. The ACCC is particularly 
concerned about these products, given that Google likely holds market power in 
the supply of each of them. 
Foreclosure of access to Wear OS, Google Maps, the Google Play Store and 
interoperability with Android phone software 
Wear OS 
126. Google currently licenses its wearable operating system (Wear OS) to a number 
of wearable manufacturers. The ACCC understands that for some of these 
manufacturers Wear OS is a critical part of their product offering.  
127. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that Google would have the ability to foreclose 
access to Wear OS. Information from market participants indicates that 
development of a proprietary wearable operating system would be prohibitively 
expensive for many competing wearable manufacturers currently using Wear 
OS.  
128. Whilst there are alternative licensable systems available, market feedback 
indicates they are not to the same standard as Wear OS. There are also a 
number of alternative non-licensable systems, such as Apple’s WatchOS and 
Samsung’s Tizen. However the ACCC understands that these are not available 
to other third party wearable manufacturers. Therefore, without continued access 
to Wear OS, competing wearable manufacturers may find it difficult to continue 
to supply devices to the market. 
                                                 
 
18 ACCC, Merger Guidelines 2008 (updated 2017), paragraph 5.22. 


Google – proposed acquisition of Fitbit 
 
Page 22 of 25 
129. Google does not currently charge for access to Wear OS, rather the ACCC 
understands that the value in providing Wear OS is to make the Android eco-
system more attractive to consumers. In addition, the ACCC understands that 
Google also gains access to the data that is collected by devices running Wear 
OS. The collection of this data is of potential benefit to Google, and the ACCC 
will need to weigh this potential benefit when considering Google’s incentives to 
foreclose access to Wear OS. 
Google Maps 
130. Google Maps is utilised by third party wearable manufacturers in their offerings 
to consumers, particularly in circumstances where they are providing route 
tracking for fitness. The ACCC understands that the provision of Google Maps 
for this service is very important, as its functionality is superior to rival providers 
such as Bing Maps. The ACCC is concerned that post-acquisition Google may 
have the incentive to frustrate access to Google Maps, in order to decrease the 
quality of the product of rival wearable manufacturers, and thus encourage 
consumers to purchase a Google wearable. 
Interoperability with Android phone software 
131. Many wearable manufacturers rely on interoperability between their wearables 
and the operating systems of mobile phones. This interoperability allows for 
various functions, but is critical in particular in the delivery of: 
• 
data into phone based apps, particularly fitness apps 
• 
notifications to the user, including calls, messages and emails 
• 
ability of the user to reply to notifications, through message or voice 
• 
voice activated assistants. 
132. Google currently effectively controls the Android software used for many non-
Apple smartphones. Although there are some alternative operating systems to 
Android, it is currently positioned as the market leading alternative to Apple’s iOS 
with approximately half of the smartphones in Australia currently operating using 
Android.  
133. The ACCC is concerned that post-acquisition Google may have the incentive to 
restrict certain functionality between wearables and Android smartphone 
operating systems to wearables produced by Google. In particular, the ACCC 
has heard concerns that Google could restrict the ability of non-Google 
wearables to send and receive calls, messages and emails. The ACCC is 
concerned that this would likely encourage Android consumers to favour Google 
wearables and significantly impact the ability of non-Google wearables to 
compete. 
134. As with Wear OS, Google does not currently charge for the use of Android 
software. The ACCC understands that much of the value is, once again, in the 
collection of data from devices that use the Android operating system. 
Assessment of incentive to foreclose 
135. As stated in the ACCC’s Merger Guidelines, a firm is unlikely to exercise its 
ability to foreclose unless profitable to do so, which will depend on the nature of 


Google – proposed acquisition of Fitbit 
 
Page 23 of 25 
competition in each of the relevant markets and the particular means available to 
foreclose rivals. 
136. The ACCC is concerned that the combined Google Fitbit will have an incentive to 
maximise the sale of its own branded wearables, by engaging in the 
aforementioned foreclosure strategies against rival wearable manufacturers. The 
ACCC is considering the extent to which a combined Google Fitbit would be able 
to increase the value to its wider business by foreclosing other wearable 
manufacturers. Such value increase could include: 
a. 
Increased profits to Google by selling more of its branded wearables at the 
detriment of rival wearable manufacturers. 
b. 
Increased ability to expand its operations in related data reliant markets, 
such as health or certain ad tech services. The foreclosure of competing 
wearable manufacturers may prevent these providers from, in the future, 
either entering these related markets themselves, or providing access to 
their data streams to other potential competitors.  
137. The ACCC is considering the extent to which any such increase in profits or 
overall benefits to Google’s business would offset any loss of income from a 
reduction in wider adoption of Google’s Wear OS operating system, Google 
Maps or the threat of consumers switching away to an non-Android eco-system. 
In this respect, the ACCC notes that, outside of Google Maps, many of these 
products provided by Google are not charged for in a conventional way. Instead 
of charging licensing or access fees, Google appears to rely on the value of the 
user data provided through wider adoption of Android software or Wear OS.  
Potential impact of foreclosure on the wearables market 
138. In turn, the ACCC is considering the extent to which foreclosure will impact 
overall competition in the supply of wearables. Fitbit is currently a significant 
supplier by volume of wearables in Australia and New Zealand. Other prominent 
providers are Apple, Samsung, Xiaomi, Garmin and Huawei.  
139. Although it may seem that there are a significant number of competing 
manufacturers, the ACCC is concerned that some of the potential foreclosure 
avenues, particularly restrictions in Android interoperability and access to Google 
Maps may impact a wide range of wearable manufacturers, even if they do not 
rely on Wear OS to run their wearables.  
140. The ACCC considers that the loss of even a small competitor can have a 
significant impact. The ACCC is aware that some manufacturers focus on 
particular segments of customers, and that their foreclosure may result in a 
consumer loss. For instance some manufacturers may focus on particular design 
aspects partnering with fashion brands, while others may focus on innovating 
with sensors and fitness support in order to capture high performance athletes. 
141. The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation 
to the potential for foreclosure of access to important technology inputs: 
• 
Google’s likely incentive to foreclose or discriminate against wearables 
competitors in the supply of related technology services 


Google – proposed acquisition of Fitbit 
 
Page 24 of 25 
• 
The extent of alternative options available to Google’s wearables competitors if 
faced with foreclosure or discrimination with respect to important inputs or 
related services to the supply of wearables 
Issue unlikely to raise concerns: removal of potential 
competition in the supply of wearables  
142. The ACCC is also considering the loss of innovation that may arise from 
acquisition. 
143. Fitbit is currently a well-known and trusted wearable brand, which has over the 
past ten years developed a strong base of users. It has developed its own 
operating system, and has a reputation for producing wearables which are 
superior in accuracy and performance to those of its competitors. Fitbit also has 
a strong consumer record for data privacy protection, which consumers appear 
to value.  
144. The ACCC is continuing to explore this point and consider relevant information 
but considers it likely that, in the absence of the proposed acquisition, Google 
would have entered the wearables market organically within the short to medium 
term. In recent years Google has been expanding its hardware business and 
released smartphones, smart speakers, ear buds and Google Glass. The ACCC 
understands that in the recent past Google has also acquired a number of other 
smaller wearable related businesses including WIMM and Chronologics, which 
likely indicates Google’s intentions to develop its own device.  The ACCC also 
points to regular press speculation, prior to Google’s acquisition of Fitbit that 
Google was looking to develop its own smart watch.  
Issue unlikely to raise concerns: impact on search and 
search advertising 
145. Based on inquiries to date, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed 
acquisition is unlikely to substantially lessen competition in the supply of search 
services or the supply of search advertising services. 
Search services 
146. User data that Fitbit acquires and has access to is distinct from search data, 
which Google uses to refine and improve its search algorithms. While the 
proposed acquisition may provide Google with access to a set of user data 
collected from wearables, it is unlikely that access to this type of data would 
have a significant impact on Google’s search services offering to consumers.  
147. The ACCC also notes that Google already has access to a large amount and 
wide range of search data. Given its position as a significant supplier of search 
services in Australia, it would likely continue gathering this type of search data, 
and this is unlikely to change as a result of the proposed acquisition. 
Search advertising services 
148. Similar to the above, search data that is valuable to the provision of search 
advertising is distinct from the type of user data that Fitbit acquires and has 
access to – that is, search data predominantly consists of search queries 


Google – proposed acquisition of Fitbit 
 
Page 25 of 25 
conducted by users and the search results subsequently clicked on. Whilst 
additional user data may be of some incremental benefit, this is unlikely to 
significantly change Google’s search advertising offering to customers.  
149. As such, while the proposed acquisition may provide Google with access to a 
unique and substantial dataset that may improve the targeting capabilities of its 
advertising services (including its ad tech services), the ACCC’s preliminary view 
is that Fitbit’s data is unlikely to significantly impact Google’s supply of search 
advertising services. 
Issue unlikely to raise concerns: overlap in mobile 
payment services 
150. Based on its inquiries to date, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed 
acquisition is unlikely to substantially lessen competition in relation to the supply 
of mobile payment services. 
151. The parties are competitors in this area, with Fitbit offering Fitbit Pay on some of 
its wearables and Google offering Google Pay on android devices. However, the 
ACCC has found that numerous other wearable manufacturers have their own 
mobile payment systems, including Apple, Samsung and Garmin, with Fitbit’s 
market share being relatively low.  
152. The ACCC has also found that, assuming there is competition at the wearables 
level, i.e. there are alternative wearable manufacturers, development of a mobile 
payment system is not particularly difficult or expensive. Therefore, the ACCC 
does not consider that a reduction in the number of mobile payment systems of 
its own account would be likely to result in a substantial lessening of competition.  
ACCC's future steps 
153. The ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on the issues 
identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other points that may be 
relevant to the ACCC's assessment. Submissions are due by 10 July 2020 and 
should be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au. 
154. The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 13 August 2020. 
However the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose 
of explaining the ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's 
public announcement to explain its final view. 
 
