Page 1 of 18 
 
Statement of Issues 
9 June 2022 
Aurizon – proposed acquisition of One Rail 
Purpose 
1. 
Aurizon Holdings Limited (Aurizon) proposes to acquire One Rail Australia 
Holdings LP (One Rail) (the Proposed Acquisition).  
2. 
This Statement of Issues: 
• 
gives the preliminary views of the Australian Competition and Consumer 
Commission (ACCC) on competition issues arising from the Proposed 
Acquisition  
• 
identifies areas of further inquiry, and 
• 
invites interested parties to submit comments and information to assist our 
assessment of the issues. 
3. 
Statements of Issues do not refer to confidential information provided by the 
parties or other market participants and therefore may not fully articulate the 
ACCC’s preliminary position. 
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views 
4. 
In considering the Proposed Acquisition, the ACCC applies the legal test set out 
in section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the CCA). In general 
terms, section 50 prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to 
have the effect, of substantially lessening competition in any market. 
5. 
The ACCC divides its preliminary views into three categories, 'issues of concern', 
'issues that may raise concerns' and ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’.  
6. 
In this Statement of Issues there is one ‘issue of concern’, one ‘issue that may 
raise concerns’ and one ‘issue unlikely to raise concerns’.  


Aurizon – Proposed Acquisition of One Rail 
 
Page 2 of 18 
 
Issue of concern 
 
7. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the Proposed Acquisition would be likely to 
substantially lessen competition in the supply of rail haulage services for coal 
(coal haulage) in New South Wales and, separately, Queensland. 
8. 
One Rail is a well-established third supplier in NSW and a recent third competitor 
in Queensland that has had a significant impact. The Proposed Acquisition 
would remove this important option for supply beyond Pacific National (PN) and 
Aurizon. 
Issue that may raise concerns 
 
9. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the loss of potential future rivalry between 
Aurizon and One Rail in the supply of rail haulage services for non-coal bulk 
commodities/products (bulk rail haulage services) may substantially lessen 
competition in one or more state or regional markets for the supply of bulk rail 
haulage services. 
Issue unlikely to raise concerns 
 
10. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the Proposed Acquisition would not lead to 
a substantial lessening of competition in the supply of bulk rail haulage or 
intermodal services on or along the Adelaide-Darwin corridor through an 
increased risk of vertical foreclosure by the operator of below-rail services in 
South Australia and the Northern Territory. 
Proposed divestment undertaking 
 
11. 
To address the ACCC’s concerns, Aurizon has offered a court enforceable s.87B 
undertaking (Proposed Undertaking) to divest the coal haulage operations of 
One Rail in NSW and Queensland (One Rail East Coast), by trade sale or via a 
demerger that would establish a new ASX listed entity.  
12. 
The ACCC has not formed a view about whether the Proposed Undertaking is 
capable of resolving the ACCC’s preliminary competition concerns. As part of the 
consultation on this Statement of Issues, views are also sought from 
stakeholders on the effectiveness of both the trade sale and demerger 
divestiture options and the particular risks that may be raised by each.  
13. 
Remedies involving demergers are rarely proposed and can present certain risks 
that are not present in a standard divestiture remedy and therefore require 
careful scrutiny. In particular, the ACCC will consider the proposed commercial 
and financial arrangements that Aurizon has proposed for the new entity and 
whether this would affect the proposed demerged business’ ability to become an 
effective, stand-alone and long-term competitor. This will include taking into 
account the proposed debt that One Rail East Coast will hold and its expected 
future cash flows.    
14. 
Feedback is also sought on other risks associated with the demerger divestiture 
option including potential execution risks which could impact on the demerger 
proceeding, including the time it would take for the divested business to be 
demerged.  


Aurizon – Proposed Acquisition of One Rail 
 
Page 3 of 18 
15. 
The divestiture via trade sale option is more common but does require careful 
consideration of a number of factors, in particular, whether the ACCC can be 
satisfied that there is a suitable buyer for the divested business which is capable 
of replacing the competition lost as a result of the Proposed Acquisition. 
16. 
The ACCC seeks market feedback on the efficacy of the Proposed Undertaking, 
and whether a divestment of One Rail East Coast, either by trade sale or 
demerger, would resolve the ACCC’s preliminary competition concerns.  
17. 
The Proposed Undertaking is available on the ACCC’s mergers public register.  
Making a submission 
18. 
The ACCC invites submissions, including on the following issues: 
• 
the likelihood that other rail haulage operators could pose an effective 
competitive constraint on a combined Aurizon-One Rail in the supply of 
coal haulage in NSW and Queensland – for example, whether the 
presence, conduct and performance of alternative suppliers is likely to be 
effective in adequately limiting a combined Aurizon-One Rail’s ability to 
increase price and / or decrease service levels  
• 
the likelihood that other rail haulage operators could similarly constrain a 
combined Aurizon-One Rail in the supply of bulk rail haulage services, 
including in Queensland, NSW, SA / the NT and/or Western Australia, 
and/or 
• 
whether the Proposed Undertaking by Aurizon for the divestiture of One 
Rail East Coast is likely to remedy the competition concerns arising from 
the Proposed Acquisition. 
19. 
Please note the ACCC has not yet formed a concluded view as to the nature and 
extent of the preliminary competition concerns with respect to the Proposed 
Acquisition, or whether they are capable of being addressed by the Proposed 
Undertaking or any other possible remedy. The market consultation process 
should not be taken as an indication that the ACCC will accept the Proposed 
Undertaking or that any remedy will be capable of satisfying its competition 
concerns.  
20. 
The ACCC may decide to not accept or require changes to the Proposed 
Undertaking depending on the nature and extent of any concerns raised during 
the market consultation process. The ACCC will only accept the Proposed 
Undertaking if it is satisfied that it will sufficiently address its competition 
concerns, and after consideration of the monitoring and compliance costs and 
any risk to competition associated with the implementation of the Proposed 
Undertaking (or failure to do so). 
21. 
A detailed discussion of these and other issues, along with specific questions, is 
contained in this Statement of Issues. 
22. 
Interested parties should provide submissions by 23 June 2022. Responses may 
be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: Submission re: Aurizon One 
Rail – attention Peter Cromwell / Natalie Ngo. If you would like to discuss the 
matter with ACCC staff or have any questions about this Statement of Issues, 


Aurizon – Proposed Acquisition of One Rail 
 
Page 4 of 18 
please contact Peter Cromwell on (08) 9325 0632 or Natalie Ngo on (03) 9910 
9418. 
23. 
To stay up-to-date with the ACCC’s decision timeline and any changes to the 
proposed documents, interested parties should visit the Mergers Register on the 
ACCC's website at www.accc.gov.au/public-registers/mergers-registers/public-
informal-merger-reviews  
Confidentiality of submissions 
 
24. 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the Proposed Acquisition. We 
will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) 
unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation 
or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the CCA. Where 
the ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, the ACCC will notify 
you in advance where possible so that you may have an opportunity to be heard. 
Therefore, please identify any confidential information provided to the ACCC. 
Our Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on 
confidentiality. 
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’ 
25. 
A Statement of Issues is not a final decision about a proposed acquisition. A 
Statement of Issues outlines the ACCC’s preliminary views and identifies further 
lines of inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
26. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 
The parties 
27. 
Aurizon has entered into a sale agreement with various entities of Macquarie 
Asset Management (MAM), on behalf of MAM’s funds, and PGGM Infrastructure 
Fund (PGGM), to acquire One Rail. 
Aurizon 
 
28. 
Aurizon is a provider of rail haulage services (‘above-rail’ services) and rail 
network services (‘below-rail’ services). Aurizon states that it is Australia’s 
largest rail freight operator for coal haulage and bulk rail haulage services. It is 
listed on the ASX. 
Rail haulage services 
29. 
Aurizon provides rail haulage services for coal and other bulk 
commodities/products in Queensland, NSW and WA. Bulk freight generally 
refers to large quantities of homogenous, loose commodities/products, carried in 
freight wagons.  


Aurizon – Proposed Acquisition of One Rail 
 
Page 5 of 18 
30. 
Aurizon hauls around half of Australia’s export coal volume. It transported 
202 million tonnes of coal in the 2020/21 financial year. It hauls coal on: 
• 
the Central Queensland Coal Network, serving Queensland’s Bowen Basin 
coal region, 
• 
the Hunter Valley and Illawarra coal systems in NSW, and 
• 
the Collie coal system in WA. 
31. 
In addition to hauling coal, Aurizon currently also transports, and/or is capable of 
transporting, other bulk commodities/products such as iron ore, cement, bauxite, 
alumina, base metals, refined metals, grain, livestock, fertiliser and dangerous 
goods. 
Rail network services 
32. 
Aurizon also operates the Central Queensland Coal Network. As the operator, its 
responsibilities include managing access to the network by coal haulage 
operators, safety, signalling and communication systems, train control, rail 
construction, and maintenance. Aurizon’s actions as operator of the network are 
subject to an access undertaking approved by the Queensland Competition 
Authority. The current access undertaking under which Aurizon operates was 
approved by the Queensland Competition Authority in 2019. 
One Rail 
 
33. 
One Rail is a provider of rail haulage and rail network services. It is presently 
owned by various entities of MAM, on behalf of MAM’s funds, and PGGM.  
34. 
MAM states that it is the globe’s No.1 infrastructure manager, managing more 
than $735 billion in assets. PGGM, based in the Netherlands, is a pension fund 
service provider. It manages the pensions of various pension funds, the affiliated 
employers and their employees. As at 31 December 2021, it managed pension 
assets worth 291 billion euros (approximately A$440 billion).  
35. 
One Rail provides rail haulage services on the Adelaide to Darwin corridor, as 
well as in NSW, Queensland and SA. 
Rail haulage services in NSW and Queensland 
36. 
One Rail provides coal haulage in the Hunter Valley from numerous mine sites to 
the Port of Newcastle in NSW. These coal haulage services are predominately 
from Glencore mines, but also includes coal haulage for other miners in the 
Hunter Valley as well as coal haulage for domestic end users. It also provides 
coal haulage in the Mackay region of Queensland.  
Rail haulage services in SA and the NT 
37. 
One Rail provides intermodal transport services on the Adelaide to Darwin 
corridor, transporting consumer goods, general cargo, bulk liquids and project 
cargo. In contrast to bulk freight, intermodal freight is typically packed in shipping 
containers, which allows the freight to be more easily transferred between 
modes of transport such as road, rail and / or sea. A wide variety of products can 


Aurizon – Proposed Acquisition of One Rail 
 
Page 6 of 18 
be transported as intermodal freight, including food, beverages, and household 
and personal effects. 
38. 
One Rail also provides bulk rail haulage services for bulk commodities including 
iron ore, manganese, gypsum, copper and grain, for customers in SA and the 
NT. 
Rail network services 
39. 
One Rail also operates two regulated rail networks, together spanning Tarcoola 
in SA to Darwin in the NT.  
40. 
Access to One Rail’s SA rail lines is managed under the Railways (Operations & 
Access) Act 1997 (SA), while access to One Rail’s NT rail lines is managed 
under the AustralAsia Railway (Third Party Access) Act 1999 (SA). The Essential 
Services Commission of South Australia regulates both Acts and the access 
regime for One Rail Network’s rail lines. 
Other coal and bulk rail haulage services providers 
41. 
Depending on the geographic region in which a contract is being performed, and 
the particular commodity/product being hauled, Aurizon and/or One Rail may 
face competition from one or more of the following rail operators: 
Operator 
Description 
PN 
Large provider of coal haulage, and bulk rail haulage services for 
grain, ores and minerals, cement, refined metals, other bulk 
freight, concentrate and construction materials by rail in 
Queensland, NSW, WA, Victoria, SA and the NT. PN is the 
largest provider of intermodal / containerised rail freight services 
in Australia. It also owns narrow, standard and broad gauge 
rolling stock, and related rail facilities. 
Qube 
Integrated provider of rail and non-rail import and export logistics 
services across NSW, Victoria, SA, WA and Queensland. 
Provides bulk rail haulage services of freight including grain, 
concrete, ores and other minerals and refined metals.  
Watco 
Subsidiary of one of the largest short line railroad companies in 
the United States of America. Entered the Australian market in 
2010 providing grain haulage services to CBH in WA. Now hauls 
grain, livestock and steel in Queensland and NSW.  
Southern 
Shorthaul 
Railroad (SSR) 
Provides bulk rail haulage and coal haulage services. Primarily 
operates in NSW and Victoria, hauling grain and to a lesser 
extent coal. 
Relevant markets 
42. 
As indicated above, Aurizon and One Rail presently overlap in the supply of coal 
haulage in each of NSW and Queensland. The parties do not presently overlap 
in the supply of non-coal bulk rail haulage services in any States or Territories. 
However, as explained below, the ACCC considers that there may be incentives 


Aurizon – Proposed Acquisition of One Rail 
 
Page 7 of 18 
for each party to enter states in which they do not presently supply bulk rail 
haulage services. 
43. 
Customers of coal haulage and bulk rail haulage services cannot realistically 
substitute between those services. On the supply side, the ACCC has 
considered the extent to which suppliers of bulk rail haulage services could 
expand into or switch to supplying coal haulage in the event of a sufficient price 
incentive. For example, locomotives and wagons used for other bulk rail haulage 
tasks may in some circumstances also be capable to being repurposed to haul 
coal. However, for reasons outlined later in this document, the ACCC considers 
that there are weak prospects of significant entry from bulk rail haulage into coal 
haulage. Accordingly, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that for the purposes of 
this review, it is appropriate to consider a separate market for coal haulage, 
rather than considering both coal haulage and non-coal bulk rail haulage 
services as part of a single market. 
44. 
The ACCC has also considered the relevant geographic scope of markets for the 
supply of coal haulage and bulk rail haulage services. In each case, the ACCC 
considers that three key factors limit the extent to which suppliers can easily 
switch between supplying a specific type of rail haulage service in one 
jurisdiction to supplying the same type of rail haulage service in another: 
• 
The first is the time and cost involved in both (a) moving existing rail 
haulage assets between States or Territories to operate along different rail 
corridors and (b) obtaining regulatory approvals in each jurisdiction for the 
use of rail assets from other jurisdictions. 
• 
The second is either having access to existing maintenance/provisioning 
facilities, and if access is unavailable, the time and cost involved building 
new maintenance/provisioning facilities. 
• 
The third is differences in rail gauge between States and Territories and 
corridors. In particular, many rail networks in Australia are standard gauge, 
including in the Hunter Valley in NSW. However, rail haulage in 
Queensland is on narrow gauge. Market feedback has indicated that 
standard gauge assets cannot easily be repurposed to operate on narrow 
gauge networks.1 
45. 
Therefore, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that aside from the Adelaide-Darwin 
corridor, the relevant geographic markets for coal haulage and bulk rail haulage 
services are state-based. 
 
 
1 While rail wagons used for bulk rail haulage services on standard gauge networks in Victoria and SA 
could be used on NSW’s standard gauge networks, the ACCC considers that the first factor is sufficient to 
treat suppliers of these services in Victoria and SA as presently operating outside NSW. 


Aurizon – Proposed Acquisition of One Rail 
 
Page 8 of 18 
Issue of concern: Substantial lessening of competition in 
the supply of coal haulage in NSW and, separately, in 
Queensland through the removal of One Rail 
46. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the Proposed Acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in the supply of coal haulage in NSW and, 
separately, in Queensland.  
47. 
One Rail is a well-established third supplier in NSW and a recent entrant (and 
third supplier) in Queensland that has had a notable impact. The Proposed 
Acquisition would remove this important supply alternative to PN and Aurizon.  
Market concentration 
 
48. 
The supply of coal haulage in NSW is highly concentrated, with three main 
suppliers: PN, Aurizon and One Rail. Aurizon is the second-largest supplier and 
proposes to acquire the third. 
49. 
The supply of coal haulage in Queensland is also highly concentrated. Aurizon is 
the largest supplier, followed by PN. One Rail entered Queensland in 2020 and 
has been successful in supplying a small share of coal haulage. Separately, 
Queensland coal miner BHP-Mitsubishi Alliance (BMA) owns and operates its 
own coal-haulage trains. BMA’s operation is the third largest in Queensland but 
does not provide coal haulage for other miners.  
50. 
The ACCC has received various estimates of the volume of coal moved by each 
of the market participants, based on broadly-available information about export 
volumes and train network usage. Table 1 provides approximate market share 
figures in NSW and Queensland in the financial year 2020-21, based on these 
estimates. 
Table 1: Market share estimates for coal haulage in NSW and Queensland 
Operator 
NSW 
Queensland 
PN 
40-50% 
25-30% 
Aurizon 
30-35% 
60-70% 
One Rail 
20-30% 
0-5% 
BMA  
Does not haul coal in 
NSW 
5-10% 
SSR 
0-5% 
Does not haul coal in 
Queensland 
 


Aurizon – Proposed Acquisition of One Rail 
 
Page 9 of 18 
Closeness of competition 
 
51. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that Aurizon and One Rail exert a strong and 
effective competitive constraint on each other and on PN in both states.  
52. 
One Rail’s coal haulage operations have their origins in the XRail / GRail 
operation that coal miner Xstrata / Glencore established in 2010 to service its 
mines, and sold in 2016. While most of One Rail’s coal volumes continue to 
come from Glencore, One Rail has also been successful in obtaining coal 
haulage contracts with other miners. 
53. 
Market participants have submitted to the ACCC that One Rail is currently a 
strong competitor in NSW based on its proven record of performance in that 
state, and that they would likely consider One Rail for their future needs or 
expect that it will participate in upcoming tender processes. 
54. 
In Queensland, One Rail entered in 2020 with one coal haulage train set to 
provide services to Glencore. One Rail has since won a small amount of work 
with other miners in Queensland. It is in the process of expanding its capacity in 
Queensland through the acquisition of a second train set. Market feedback 
suggests that in Queensland One Rail has been aggressive on price, flexible on 
other contractual terms, and performed more favourably than Aurizon or PN on 
key operational metrics. Its entry is said to have created new competitive tension 
in the supply of coal haulage in Queensland. 
Barriers to entry and expansion 
 
Barriers to new entry 
55. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that barriers to new rail haulage suppliers 
entering coal haulage in NSW or Queensland are high.  
56. 
Some market participants have referred to and reiterated the observations in the 
ACCC’s Statement of Issues in a previous matter when commenting on the 
likelihood of new entry or expansion by existing suppliers.2 As previously 
identified by the ACCC, the main barriers faced by a new entrant include: 
• 
An entrant must outlay significant capital on rolling stock, with a lead-in 
time for delivery often measured in years. A substantial proportion of this 
investment may be ‘sunk’– irrecoverable on exit – discouraging entry. 
• 
Recruiting and training train drivers can be difficult, due to a lack of supply. 
• 
Gaining access to provisioning facilities can be challenging, or building 
your own can be costly. 
• 
A rail operator must meet regulatory requirements, such as operator 
accreditations and licences, before it can bid for tasks. 
 
 
2 Statement of Issues (Aurizon and PN acquisitions of GRail) 
(https://www.accc.gov.au/system/files/public-registers/documents/MER16%2B9857.pdf) 


Aurizon – Proposed Acquisition of One Rail 
 
Page 10 of 18 
• 
Coal producers place a high value on the hauler’s demonstrated reliability, 
which favours incumbents. Haulage is a critical input, with any delays or 
problems in delivering coal to port significantly impacting producers.  
• 
There are significant competitive advantages for incumbents, based on 
scale and scope (breadth-of-service), from having larger train fleets and 
range of customers.  
57. 
The ACCC has received submissions that there is increased uncertainty about 
the long-term future of coal. Similarly, there had been an increase in ‘societal 
risk’ associated with coal projects, including an increased reluctance of banks to 
finance coal-exposed businesses and increased shareholder activism on the 
issue. This would impact on investment decision-making for potential new 
entrants into coal haulage and might make it challenging for a firm to obtain 
finance to enter these markets. The ACCC understands that this uncertainty is 
greater for projects in NSW, where the majority of coal produced is thermal coal 
(for use in power stations), than in Queensland, where the majority of coal 
produced is metallurgical coal (for use in smelters). 
58. 
In this context, the ACCC considers One Rail’s entry into Queensland, 
expanding its coal operations from its NSW base, to be a unique occurrence that 
is not indicative of low barriers to entry. 
Potential entry into coal by an existing supplier of bulk rail haulage services  
59. 
The ACCC considers that barriers to entry into coal haulage in NSW or 
Queensland are likely to be lowest for an existing supplier of bulk rail haulage 
services operating in the same geographic area.  
60. 
In such circumstances the existing supplier would have the advantage of already 
having in place existing accreditation to operate on the rail networks, access to 
drivers, facilities and provisioning services. Locomotives and wagons used for 
other bulk rail haulage tasks may in some circumstances also be capable to 
being repurposed to haul coal. 
61. 
In NSW, rail operators offering bulk rail haulage services for non-coal bulk 
commodities/products include Qube and SSR. In Queensland, rail operators 
offering bulk rail haulage services for non-coal bulk commodities/products 
include Qube and Watco. 
62. 
However, there are various factors that may still limit the extent to which these 
rail operators could, or are likely to, begin supplying coal haulage and exert 
significant competitive constraint in markets in NSW or Queensland in the future: 
• 
As outlined above at paragraph 57, increased uncertainty about the long-
term future of coal makes new entry into coal haulage less attractive, 
especially in NSW. 
• 
The scale of the operations undertaken by existing coal haulage operators 
in NSW and Queensland is significantly larger than the bulk rail haulage 
operations in those states. This may mean that bulk rail haulage operators 
may find it hard to demonstrate their reliability at scale to large coal 
customers. 


Aurizon – Proposed Acquisition of One Rail 
 
Page 11 of 18 
63. 
For these reasons, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that there are weak prospects 
of significant entry into the supply of coal haulage in either NSW or Queensland 
by current suppliers of bulk rail haulage services in each of those States. 
Countervailing power 
 
64. 
The ACCC continues to consider the extent to which customers in NSW and 
Queensland may have some countervailing power to constrain an attempt by a 
supplier to exercise market power.  
65. 
In NSW, Glencore has previously demonstrated an ability to self-supply. 
Glencore’s predecessor established the X-Rail / GRail coal-haulage business, 
which became the core of One Rail’s coal haulage business.  
66. 
In Queensland, BMA has demonstrated an ability to supply its coal haulage 
needs itself. 
67. 
Despite these examples of self-supply and / or customer supported expansion, 
the ACCC does not consider countervailing power of customers would provide a 
sufficient competitive constraint post-acquisition. While the threat of self-supply 
of coal haulage may address the impacts of an exercise of market power for 
some customers, it is unlikely to do so for a significant portion of the relevant 
market, and many of the benefits that customers have obtained as a result of 
competition from One Rail would likely be lost.  
Proposed Undertaking 
 
68. 
Aurizon proposes to divest One Rail East Coast to seek to resolve any 
competition concerns about the impact of the Proposed Acquisition on the supply 
of coal haulage in NSW and Queensland. Further details and questions about 
the Proposed Undertaking are provided at the end of this document and a copy 
of the Proposed Undertaking is available on the ACCC’s mergers public register. 
Questions for market participants 
 
69. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns. In 
particular, market participants may wish to comment on the following: 
• 
To what extent and in what way, if any, has One Rail’s presence or performance in 
NSW or Queensland elicited a competitive response from PN and / or Aurizon?  
• 
What is the likelihood of a new supplier of coal haulage establishing itself in NSW 
or Queensland? 
o Which rail operator or rail operators, when and with what effect? 
o What are the most significant challenges they would face in doing so? How 
do these circumstances compare with what earlier operators faced?  
o To what extent would investments to enter the market be viewed as ‘sunk’? 
For example, how readily available is leased rolling stock and how liquid is 
the market for second-hand stock, before and after entry? 


Aurizon – Proposed Acquisition of One Rail 
 
Page 12 of 18 
o To what extent could an existing bulk rail haulage services provider use its 
existing rolling stock to provide coal haulage services? 
• 
To what extent can coal customers in NSW or Queensland exert a credible threat 
to self-supply their own coal haulage services? Please identify the customers most 
likely to have the ability and incentive to exert such a threat; and the circumstances 
under which they would be likely to act on these. 
 
Issue that may raise concerns: loss of potential future 
competition in supply of bulk rail haulage services  
70. 
As noted above, the ACCC understands that Aurizon and One Rail do not 
presently compete in the supply of bulk rail haulage services for non-coal bulk 
commodities/products. This is because they currently supply these services in 
different regions: Aurizon provides these services in Queensland, NSW and WA, 
while One Rail provides them in SA and the NT.  
71. 
Some market participants have submitted that, if Aurizon does not acquire One 
Rail, Aurizon and / or One Rail might expand or enter into the supply of bulk rail 
haulage services for various non-coal bulk commodities/products in jurisdictions 
in which they do not presently operate. That is: 
• 
Aurizon might commence supplying bulk rail haulage services in 
competition with One Rail’s existing bulk rail haulage services in SA and/or 
the NT, if it does not acquire One Rail, and / or 
• 
One Rail might commence supplying bulk rail haulage services in 
competition with Aurizon’s existing services in Queensland, NSW and/or 
WA, if it is not acquired by Aurizon. 
72. 
In this regard, Aurizon has publicly stated its intention to continue to grow its bulk 
rail haulage business. For example, an investor day presentation of 8 June 2021, 
included a statement that Aurizon intends to double the size of its integrated 
supply chain business for bulk commodities/products (which includes its bulk rail 
haulage operations) by 2030.3 This includes an intention to build on its existing 
bulk presence in WA and Queensland, as well as to ‘establish offerings in new 
basins…’.4 
73. 
If such expansions were to occur in the future in the absence of the Proposed 
Acquisition, they could strengthen competition in or the supply of bulk rail 
haulage services to haulage customers of various commodities/products in a 
number of jurisdictions, such as: 
• 
agricultural commodities/products and inputs, such as grain, cotton or 
sugar, in NSW, Queensland, SA and WA 
 
 
3 https://www.aurizon.com.au/-/media/project/aurizon/files/investors/documents-and-
webcasts/2021/investor-day/2021-investor-day-presentation.pdf at slide 37 
4 Ibid, slide 43 


Aurizon – Proposed Acquisition of One Rail 
 
Page 13 of 18 
• 
ores, minerals and similar commodities (such as alumina or mineral 
sands), in NSW, Queensland, SA and WA, and 
• 
cement in Queensland, SA and WA. 
74. 
The ACCC sees this as a potentially important issue because there only exists a 
limited number of large suppliers of bulk rail haulage services in Australia 
(primarily Aurizon, One Rail, PN, Qube, Watco and SSR) and the Proposed 
Acquisition would reduce that number by one.5  
75. 
Since Aurizon and One Rail have each demonstrated their ability to run large, 
proficient, bulk rail haulage services in their current respective geographic 
regions, they each have the potential to materially enhance competition if they 
were to enter a new area. 
76. 
In this regard, the ACCC is carefully considering the impact of One Rail’s recent 
entry into the supply of coal haulage services in Queensland, and whether this 
provides it with the platform to begin supplying bulk rail haulage services in 
Queensland. There are a limited number of rail haulage providers in 
Queensland: Aurizon, PN, Watco and Qube. The ACCC understands Aurizon is 
the largest provider of bulk rail haulage services in Queensland. Therefore, any 
increase in the competitive threat posed to Aurizon by One Rail in the supply of 
bulk rail haulage services in Queensland has the potential to provide significant 
competitive benefits. 
77. 
The ACCC is continuing to consider: 
• 
the likelihood of this potential future competition manifesting in the absence 
of the Proposed Acquisition 
• 
the commodities/products and geographic regions in which Aurizon and 
One Rail might compete, and 
• 
the strength of competition from other suppliers already competing in the 
relevant regions, including where relevant, from road alternatives. 
78. 
However, based on information currently available, the ACCC’s degree of 
concern in relation to bulk rail haulage services is less than it is for the supply of 
coal haulage. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the loss of potential future 
rivalry between Aurizon and One Rail in the supply of bulk rail haulage services 
may substantially lessen competition in one or more state or regional markets for 
the supply of those services. 
79. 
Aurizon proposes to divest One Rail East Coast to seek to resolve potential 
competition concerns about the impact of the Proposed Acquisition on the supply 
of non-coal bulk rail haulage services in NSW and Queensland. Further details 
and questions about the Proposed Undertaking are provided at the end of this 
document and a copy of the Proposed Undertaking is available on the ACCC’s 
mergers public register. 
 
 
5 There also exists a small number of rail operators which only operate in a single state and/or only haul 
specific bulk commodities/products. 


Aurizon – Proposed Acquisition of One Rail 
 
Page 14 of 18 
80. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns. In 
particular, market participants may wish to comment on the following: 
• 
Whether there are any non-coal bulk markets in which Aurizon and One Rail 
currently compete. 
• 
Whether, without the Proposed Acquisition, there are any bulk markets in which 
Aurizon and One Rail would be likely to compete in the future. 
• 
What abilities and incentives do Aurizon and One Rail have to commence 
supplying bulk rail haulage services in jurisdictions in which they do not presently 
supply these services? What actions, plans or statements indicate or evidence 
their abilities and incentives?  
• 
Whether One Rail’s entry into coal haulage Queensland has increased the 
competitive threat to Aurizon or other bulk rail operators, including whether 
customers have obtained improved price or non-price benefits following One Rail’s 
entry.  
Issue unlikely to raise concerns: vertical foreclosure by 
the operator of above and below rail services in SA/NT 
81. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the Proposed Acquisition would not be likely 
to lead to a substantial lessening of competition in the supply of bulk rail haulage 
or intermodal services on or along the Adelaide-Darwin corridor through an 
increased risk of vertical foreclosure by the operator of below-rail services in SA 
and the NT. 
82. 
A number of market participants raised concerns regarding the present operation 
of One Rail’s vertically integrated above-rail (bulk rail haulage services) and 
below-rail (network) services in SA and the NT. The concerns they expressed 
included that: 
• 
for the One Rail networks it operates, access charges to these networks 
are not transparent  
• 
it had been difficult to get timely quotes for rail-access charges, and 
• 
One Rail required commercially sensitive information from rail operators 
seeking access to use the networks that was unnecessary to meet the 
access request.  
83. 
The ACCC acknowledges that these behaviours, if true, could impede effective 
competition between One Rail (or Aurizon post-acquisition) and other potential 
above-rail providers in SA and the NT. However, the ACCC’s focus in this review 
is on changes to competition that are the result of the Proposed Acquisition.  
84. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that a combined Aurizon-One Rail is not likely to 
have a greater ability and incentive to foreclose (prevent or impede a rival rail 
operator from competing) other users and potential users of One Rail’s networks 
than One Rail does now. Since Aurizon does not presently provide above-rail 
services on any track operated by One Rail in those regions, the Proposed 
Acquisition would not lead to any structural change to the supply of above or 


Aurizon – Proposed Acquisition of One Rail 
 
Page 15 of 18 
below rail services in SA or the NT – it would simply transfer One Rail’s existing 
business in those regions to Aurizon. 
85. 
The ACCC has considered whether the combination of Aurizon’s operations in 
other parts of the country with One Rail’s current SA and NT operations might 
provide the merged business with a greater incentive than One Rail currently has 
to foreclose potential competing above-rail providers in SA and the NT. For 
example, a combined Aurizon-One Rail could seek to frustrate a rival operator 
that wants to offer a customer a multi-region solution that includes SA and/or the 
NT, by discriminating against it in the provision of access in SA and/or the NT. If 
this occurred, it could worsen prices and conditions to customers of bulk rail 
haulage services on the Adelaide-Darwin corridor. 
86. 
However, the ACCC understands that: 
• 
customers do not typically procure on such a multi-region basis, and 
• 
the relatively small amount of revenue involved in access and bulk rail 
haulage services in SA and the NT is not likely to be a material lever in 
larger potential arrangements. 
87. 
As a result, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that this issue is unlikely to raise 
concerns.  
88. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary view. In 
particular market participants may wish to comment on the following: 
• 
Whether the Proposed Acquisition would increase the ability or incentive for the 
owner of One Rail to discriminate against competing rail haulers in SA and/or the 
NT, and if so, the driver(s) for this increase and how One Rail’s conduct could 
transpire. 
Proposed Undertaking 
89. 
Aurizon has offered a court enforceable s.87B undertaking to divest One Rail 
East Coast. Aurizon submits that the divestiture of One Rail East Coast will 
establish an effective, stand-alone, long-term competitor and resolve the ACCC’s 
competition concerns in the supply of coal haulage and non-coal bulk rail 
haulage services in NSW and Queensland. 
Summary of the Proposed Undertaking provisions 
 
90. 
The Proposed Undertaking provides for either a divestment of One Rail East 
Coast to an ACCC-approved purchaser by a trade sale, or via demerger that 
would establish a new ASX listed entity. If a trade sale or demerger is not 
completed within the divestiture period, One Rail East Coast will be divested at 
no minimum price to an ACCC-approved purchaser via an approved divestiture 
agent.  
91. 
The Proposed Undertaking includes: 
• 
at the option of the approved purchaser, a transitional supply agreement 
for any goods and services required by the purchaser to operate the 
divestiture business 


Aurizon – Proposed Acquisition of One Rail 
 
Page 16 of 18 
• 
at the option of the approved purchaser, a transitional technical assistance 
agreement required by the purchaser to effectively operate the divestiture 
business, and 
• 
an ACCC-approved independent auditor to monitor Aurizon’s compliance 
with the Proposed Undertaking. 
92. 
A draft of the Proposed Undertaking is provided is available on the ACCC’s 
mergers public register. 
93. 
Schedule 4 of the Proposed Undertaking lists all the entities, assets, licenses 
and contracts to be divested as part of the One Rail East Coast business.  
94. 
The Proposed Undertaking requires the appointment of an ACCC-approved 
Independent Manager for the divestiture business during the divestiture period. 
In addition to the Independent Manager, One Rail East Coast would have its own 
management team which would operate the business on a day-to-day basis. It is 
proposed that the standard functions of an approved independent manager 
would be split between the ACCC-approved Independent Manager for One Rail 
East Coast and One Rail East Coast’s management team which varies from the 
ACCC’s standard approach for divestiture undertakings.  
95. 
The Proposed Undertaking and the draft Separation and Management Plan 
(which are available on the ACCC’s mergers public register) outline the 
interaction between the Independent Manager and the One Rail East Coast 
management team.  
96. 
A summary of the draft Ring Fencing Protocols that outline how One Rail East 
Coast’s confidential information will be kept separate from Aurizon in the period 
between Aurizon acquiring One Rail and divesting One Rail East Coast is 
available on the ACCC’s mergers public register. 
Issues for consideration   
 
97. 
The ACCC has not decided whether such a remedy is capable of addressing the 
ACCC’s preliminary competition concerns. 
98. 
Remedies involving demergers are rarely proposed and can present certain risks 
that are not present in a standard divestiture remedy and therefore require 
careful scrutiny. In particular, the ACCC will consider the proposed commercial 
and financial arrangements that Aurizon has proposed for the new entity and 
whether this would affect the proposed demerged business’ ability to become an 
effective, stand-alone and long-term competitor. This would include taking into 
account the proposed debt that One Rail East Coast will hold and it’s expected 
future cash flows. 
99. 
Feedback is also sought on other risks associated with the demerger including 
potential execution risks which could impact on the demerger proceeding, 
including the time it would take for the divested business to be demerged.    
100. The divestiture via trade sale option is more common but does require careful 
consideration of a number of factors, in particular, whether the ACCC can be 
satisfied that there is a suitable buyer for the divested business which is capable 
of replacing the competition lost as a result of the Proposed Acquisition. 


Aurizon – Proposed Acquisition of One Rail 
 
Page 17 of 18 
101. The ACCC invites comments from market participants on whether the Proposed 
Undertaking adequately addresses the competition concerns arising from the 
Proposed Acquisition. In particular, market participants may wish to comment on 
the following: 
Would a divestment of One Rail East Coast address the ACCC’s competition 
concerns? 
• 
Whether the divestment of One Rail East Coast addresses the ACCC’s concerns 
about the impact of the Proposed Acquisition on the supply of coal haulage in 
NSW and Queensland. 
• 
Whether the divestment of One Rail East Coast addresses the ACCC’s concerns 
about the impact of the Proposed Acquisition on the supply of non-coal bulk rail 
haulage services in NSW and Queensland.  
• 
Whether the divestment of One Rail East Coast addresses any other concerns in 
relation to the Proposed Acquisition. 
Are there other issues that could prevent One Rail East Coast from being an 
effective independent competitor? 
• 
Whether the divestiture package is likely to attract a suitable trade sale purchaser. 
Who may be suitable, and unsuitable potential purchasers, including the reasons 
why? 
• 
To what extent would a purchaser of the One Rail East Coast business need 
existing operations and/or experience in Australia in order to be an effective and 
long-term competitor?  
• 
Aurizon intends to fund part of the One Rail purchase price by obtaining and fully-
drawing a $500m loan facility, which would be repayable by One Rail East Coast 
following the proposed divestment.6 What impact would this $500 million debt 
facility have on One Rail East Coast’s viability and ability to compete in the short to 
mid-term?  
• 
Whether there are any risks associated with divestment of the One Rail East Coast 
business via demerger.  
Are there potential issues with the timing of the divestiture? 
• 
Whether and how One Rail East Coast’s assets could degrade during a divestiture 
period and how quickly this may occur.  
• 
How long a trade sale or demerger process for a business like One Rail East 
Coast would usually take.  
Does the drafting of the Proposed Undertaking achieve its intended purpose? 
• 
Whether the divestiture package includes all the necessary assets, contracts and 
personnel, required to ensure the One Rail East Coast business can operate as an 
effective and long-term competitor, either under the ownership of a new trade 
 
 
6 Outlined in an Aurizon investor presentation at slide 25- https://mc-71bd5e2a-aade-4067-a0ad-8402-
cdn-endpoint.azureedge.net/-/media/project/aurizon/files/investors/documents-and-webcasts/2021/other-
presentations/investor-presentation---acquisition-of-one-rail-
australia.pdf?rev=88917dd103944642b71c3541417afc35&hash=83A5F070FC485715BE5A8A4D48C7
BD33 


Aurizon – Proposed Acquisition of One Rail 
 
Page 18 of 18 
purchaser or on the ASX as a demerged business. If not, please explain what else 
would be required. 
• 
Whether the draft Separation and Management Plan (as described in the summary 
which is available on the ACCC’s mergers public register) enables the One Rail 
East Coast business to be effectively managed by the management team 
independently of Aurizon and provides for sufficient independent oversight by the 
Independent Manager 
• 
Whether the draft Ring Fencing Protocols (as described in the summary which is 
available on the ACCC’s mergers public register) effectively keep One Rail East 
Coast’s confidential information separate from Aurizon?  
ACCC's future steps 
102. As noted above, the ACCC invites submissions from market participants on each 
of the issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that 
may be relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. Submissions should 
be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au by no later than 23 June 2022. 
103. The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
104. The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 14 July 2022. However 
the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Informal Merger Review 
Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment explaining the ACCC's 
final view may be published following the ACCC's public announcement. 
 
 
 
