 
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
tel: (02) 6243 1368
mergers@accc.gov.au
www.accc.gov.au
Our ref: 
IM-71185 
 
Contact officer: 
Peter Cromwell / Louis Loizou 
Contact phone: 
03 9325 0632 / 03 9290 1412 
7 December 2021 
 
Dear Interested Party 
Re:  Request for submissions: Aurizon’s proposed acquisition of One Rail 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your 
views on the proposed acquisition of One Rail Australia (One Rail) by Aurizon 
Holdings Limited (Aurizon) (the proposed acquisition). 
 
Aurizon provides rail haulage and road transport services in Queensland, New South 
Wales and Western Australia. It also operates and manages the Central Queensland 
Coal Rail Network. 
 
One Rail provides rail haulage services on the Adelaide to Darwin corridor, in New 
South Wales and South Australia. It also operates rail networks in South Australia 
and the Northern Territory. 
 
Aurizon proposes to offer a court enforceable undertaking to the ACCC that would 
commit Aurizon to divest the entirety of One Rail’s east coast rail business, 
comprising its coal haulage operations in New South Wales and Queensland.  
 
Further details regarding the proposed acquisition and proposed undertaking can be 
found at Attachment A.  
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the likely impact on competition. In 
particular, we are seeking your views on: 
• 
competition for bulk coal haulage services, including the potential impact on 
prices, services and/or access to those services  
• 
competition for bulk rail haulage services, including the potential impact on 
prices, services and/or access to those services 
• 
whether the proposed divestment of One Rail’s east coast rail business is 
necessary to resolve any competition concerns identified during the review 
and, if so, whether it is capable of resolving those concerns.  
A list of specific questions can be found at Attachment B. 
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 


The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in 
section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the Act). Section 50 prohibits 
acquisitions that are likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in 
a market.  
Please provide your response by no later than 5pm on Friday, 21 January 2022. 
Responses may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: Submission re: Aurizon 
/ One Rail - attention Louis Loizou / Peter Cromwell. If you would like to arrange a time to 
discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any questions about this letter, please 
contact Peter Cromwell on 08 9325 0632 or Louis Loizou on 03 9290 1412. 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public 
Mergers Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We will not 
disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by 
law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or during court proceedings) or 
in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010.  Where the 
ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, the ACCC will notify you in advance 
where possible so that you may have an opportunity to be heard.  Therefore, if the 
information provided to the ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our 
Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
Daniel McCracken-Hewson 
General Manager 
Merger Investigations  
 
 


Attachment A 
 
Aurizon     
Aurizon is Australia’s largest rail freight operator, transporting more than 250 million 
tonnes of Australian goods and commodities including mining, agricultural, industrial 
and retail products, utilising an extensive national rail and road network, traversing 
Australia. Aurizon is listed on the Australian Securities Exchange. 
Aurizon operates and manages the Central Queensland Coal Network. The 2,670 
kilometre multi-user rail network comprises four major coal systems and one 
connecting system serving Queensland’s Bowen Basin coal region: Newlands, 
Goonyella, Blackwater and Moura with Goonyella Abbot Point Expansion the 
connecting system link. The network links approximately 50 mines with three major 
ports in Queensland. 
Aurizon also supplies bulk rail transport services in the Hunter Valley and Illawarra 
coal systems in New South Wales.  
Aurizon hauls around half of Australia’s export coal volume, transporting 202 million 
tonnes of coal in the 2020/21 financial year. This is split approximately evenly 
between metallurgical coal and thermal coal. 
Aurizon is the only rail operator with services to all six coal export ports on Australia’s 
east coast. 
Aurizon’s bulk business provides integrated supply chain services, including rail and 
road transportation, port services and material handling for a range of mining, metal, 
industrial and agricultural customers throughout Queensland, New South Wales and 
Western Australia. 
Aurizon is capable of transporting bulk commodities such as iron ore, cement, 
bauxite, alumina, base metals, grain, livestock, fertiliser and dangerous goods. 
One Rail 
One Rail is a large rail freight service provider in Australia, providing both above and 
below rail services. 
One Rail provides intermodal transport services on the Adelaide to Darwin corridor, 
servicing Alice Springs, Tennant Creek, Katherine & Darwin, transporting 
containerised consumer goods, general cargo, bulk liquids and project cargo. 
It also owns and operates managed terminals at Alice Springs, Tennant Creek, 
Katherine and Darwin, and maintenance facilities in Darwin and Adelaide.  
One Rail provides bulk coal haulage services in the Hunter Valley from numerous 
operating mine sites to the Port of Newcastle, as well as bulk coal haulage services 
for domestic end users.  
One Rail also provides bulk coal haulage services in the Mackay region of 
Queensland. 
One Rail provides bulk haulage services in minerals and agricultural commodities 
sectors including mineral ores, grains, fuel and general consumer goods. It services 
these sectors through the ownership or control of over 113 active locomotives and 
around 2,300 active wagons. It services these sectors with several maintenance and 
support facilities and terminals. 


One Rail operates two regulated networks: in South Australia (under the Railways 
(Operations & Access) Act 1997) and in the Northern Territory (under the AustralAsia 
Railway (Third Party Access) Act 1999 and Code). 
 
 
The proposed divestment undertaking 
 
Aurizon proposes to offer a court enforceable undertaking to divest the entirety of 
One Rail’s east coast rail business. The proposal will include: 
• 
either a sale to an independent purchaser, or demerger which would establish a 
standalone, independent entity that is ASX listed 
• 
all of One Rail’s assets, operation, and contracts on the east coast, including the 
entirety of its coal haulage operations in Queensland and the Hunter Valley in 
New South Wales 
• 
an expectation that the current One Rail personnel dedicated to One Rail's east 
coast rail business will remain with the divested business 
• 
a commitment to hold the east coast rail business operationally and financially 
separate and independent from Aurizon 
• 
the appointment of an independent CEO and board, and independent auditor, to 
manage the east coast rail business without direction from Aurizon.  
 
 


Attachment B 
We have set out below a list of questions you may wish to address in your 
submission. Please feel free to comment on any other issues that you consider 
relevant to the ACCC’s assessment. 
General 
 
1. Please describe your business or organisation and explain your interest in the proposed 
acquisition, including any commercial or competitive relationships with Aurizon or One 
Rail.  
 
2. If you are a customer acquiring rail haulage services, please provide an overview of the 
services you acquire including, for example, the type of freight carried, volume, value 
origin, destination, and current haulage provider. 
Bulk coal haulage rail services – New South Wales 
3. Please describe how and the extent to which Aurizon and One Rail compete with each 
other in the supply of bulk coal haulage rail services in New South Wales including in 
relation to price, terms, geographic location or scope of offerings.  
 
4. Please identify and describe alternative suppliers of bulk coal haulage rail services in 
New South Wales for each geographic location identified in 3 above and explain how 
and the extent to which these suppliers compete with Aurizon and One Rail, taking into 
account factors such as price, terms or location.  
 
5. For customers, please describe how you are likely to respond if Aurizon or One Rail 
sought to increase prices or lower service levels. 
 
6. Please comment on the barriers to entering or expanding the supply of bulk coal 
haulage rail services in New South Wales, including whether maintenance, driver 
availability, regulatory requirements or any other issues are significant barriers to 
entry or expansion.      
 
Bulk coal haulage rail services – Queensland 
7. Please describe how and the extent to which Aurizon and One Rail compete with each 
other in the supply of bulk coal haulage rail services in Queensland including in relation 
to price, terms, geographic location or scope of offerings.  
 
8. Please identify and describe alternative suppliers of bulk coal haulage rail services in 
Queensland for each geographic location identified in 7 above and explain how and the 
extent to which these suppliers compete with Aurizon and One Rail taking into account 
factors such as price, terms or location.  
 
9. For customers, please describe how you are likely to respond if Aurizon or One Rail 
sought to increase prices or lower service levels. 
 
10. Please comment on the barriers to entering or expanding the supply of bulk coal 
haulage rail services in Queensland including whether maintenance, driver availability, 
regulatory requirements or any other issues are significant barriers to entry or 
expansion.      


Bulk freight haulage services 
11. Please describe how and the extent to which Aurizon and One Rail compete with each 
other in the supply of bulk haulage services in Australia including in relation to price, 
terms, geographic location or scope of offerings.  
 
12. Have Aurizon and One Rail competed against each other seeking to win contracts to 
supply bulk rail haulage outside of their current geographic footprints? If so, please 
provide details, such as the timing of the competitive process, type of freight, location, 
volumes and duration of the contracts. 
 
13. Has One Rail’s entry into coal haulage in Queensland increased its ability to compete 
for bulk haulage contracts in Queensland? If so, please explain why. 
 
14. Please identify and describe alternative suppliers of general bulk haulage services that 
compete with Aurizon and One Rail and explain how and the extent to which these 
suppliers compete with Aurizon and One Rail, taking into account factors such as price, 
terms or location.  
 
15. For customers, please describe how you are likely to respond if Aurizon or One Rail 
sought to increase prices or lower service levels for bulk haulage services.  
 
16. Please comment on the barriers to entering or expanding the supply of bulk 
haulage services in Australia, including how these barriers may differ across 
states or regions and / or in areas where a rail operator has existing operations, 
such as Aurizon and One Rail in Queensland.      
 
‘Below-rail access’ to rail networks 
 
17. Please comment on any change arising from the proposed acquisition that may impact 
the ability and / or incentive to discriminate against other users and potential users of 
One Rail’s current Tarcoola-Darwin rail line in terms of price or service provision.  
 
Proposed divestment undertaking 
 
18. Is the proposed asset package (that is, the sale of the One Rail east coast rail business 
in Queensland and the Hunter Valley) sufficient for a purchaser to become a viable, 
effective and long-term competitor? Why or why not? 
 
19. Is the proposed asset package likely to attract a suitable purchaser? Why or why not? 
 
20. Would a demerger of One Rail’s east coast rail business to form a new ASX listed entity 
create a viable, effective and long-term competitor, including maintaining an ability to 
compete for new or renewed contracts? Why or why not? 
 
 
Other competition issues 
 
21. Please provide any additional information or comments or identify other competition 
issues that you consider relevant to the ACCC’s consideration of the proposed 
acquisition under section 50 of the Act. 
