 
 
1 
23 Marcus Clarke Street 
Canberra ACT 2601 
 
GPO Box 3131 
Canberra ACT 2601 
  
tel: (02) 6243 1368  
mergers@accc.gov.au 
 
www.accc.gov.au 
Our ref: 
IM-70300 
Contact officer: 
Fei Wu / Nigel Vise 
Contact phone: 
(03) 9290 1987 / (03) 9290 1468 
29 July 2019 
Dear Interested Party 
Re: Request for submissions: Proposed acquisition of the Jewel Fine Foods 
business and assets by B&J City Kitchen Pty Ltd 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
the proposed acquisition by B&J City Kitchen Pty Ltd (B&J) of the Jewel Fine Foods 
business and assets from the Jewel Fine Foods seller entities listed in the attached 
schedule (Jewel) (the proposed acquisition). 
B&J manufactures a range of branded and private-label chilled fresh, chilled post-pack 
pasteurised (Long Life) and frozen ready meals, from its facility located in Arndell Park, 
New South Wales. B&J is 77 per cent owned by Beak & Johnston Holdings Pty Ltd (B&J 
Holdings) and 23 per cent owned by Woolworths Group Ltd (Woolworths). B&J Holdings, 
including B&J, supplies nationally to grocery retailers including Woolworths, Coles, 
Metcash and Harris Farm, and to independent grocers, petrol and convenience store 
operators, food manufacturers (such as General Mills) and food service operators (such as 
airlines).  
Jewel also manufactures a range of branded and private-label chilled, frozen and ambient 
ready meals, soups, breads and fried snacking, from its facilities in Banksmeadow and 
Mascot in New South Wales. It supplies nationally to grocery retailers including Coles, 
Woolworths, Aldi, Costco, and Metcash, and to independent grocers, export, food 
manufacturers (such as Kraft Heinz) and food service operators. Jewel entered voluntary 
administration on 26 April 2019. 
Further details about the proposed acquisition can be found at Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact on competition. In particular, we are 
seeking your views on: 
 
the extent of competition between B&J and Jewel and the degree to which other 
companies compete with B&K and Jewel  
 
the extent to which consumers consider chilled and frozen ready meals to be 
substitutable 


 
2 
 
the extent to which ready meals are substitutable with other prepared meals from 
grocery retailers (such as pizzas, quiches and soups) or with other options (such as 
ready meals offered online, takeaway meals, home delivered meals and meal kits) 
 
as Woolworths owns 23 per cent of B&J, the extent to which the proposed acquisition 
may limit the supply of ready meals to other grocery retailers or other customers and 
therefore impact on competition in the supply of ready meals to consumers. 
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
Please provide your response by no later than 5pm on 5 August 2019. Responses may be 
emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: Submission re: B&J/Jewel – attention 
Fei Wu / Nigel Vise. If you would like to arrange a time to discuss the matter with ACCC 
officers, or have any questions about this letter, please contact Fei Wu on (03) 9290 1987 
or Nigel Vise on (03) 9290 1468. 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public 
Mergers Register at (ACCC Mergers Register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We will not 
disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by 
law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or during court proceedings) or 
in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth).  Where the 
ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, the ACCC will notify you in advance 
where possible so that you may have an opportunity to be heard.  Therefore, if the 
information provided to the ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our 
Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
Tom Leuner 
General Manager 
Merger Investigations 


 
 
3 
Attachment A 
B&J City Kitchen 
B&J operates a facility in Arndell Park, NSW. It is 77 per cent owned by Beak & Johnston 
Holdings Pty Ltd (B&J Holdings) and 23 per cent owned by Woolworths Group Ltd.  
B&J Holdings, including B&J, manufactures a range of branded and private label chilled 
fresh, chilled fresh, chilled post-pack pasteurised (or long life) and frozen ready meals. B&J 
Holdings also supplies a range of chilled soups & sauces, raw meat products, slow cooked 
dishes, lasagne & pasta, and pastry products through its other subsidiaries.  
B&J Holdings, including B&J, supplies nationally to grocery retailers including Woolworths, 
Coles,  Metcash and Harris Farm, and to independent grocers, petrol & convenience store 
operators, food producers and food service operators (such as airlines).   
Jewel  
Jewel manufactures and supplies a range of branded and private label chilled, frozen and 
ambient ready meals, soups, breads and fried snacking, from its facilities located in Mascot 
and Banksmeadow in New South Wales.  
Jewel supplies nationally to grocery retailers including Coles, Woolworths, Aldi, Costco, 
and Metcash and to independent grocers, export, food producers and food service 
operators. Jewel also has corporate partnerships, including with Qantas and Virgin. 
Jewel entered into voluntary administration on 26 April 2019. 
The transaction 
B&J proposes to acquire the Jewel Fine Foods business and assets from the Jewel Fine 
Foods seller entities listed in the attached Schedule. 
 
 
 
 


 
 
4 
Attachment B 
1. Please provide a brief description of your business or organisation.  
2. Please outline the reasons for your interest in the proposed acquisition, including any 
products you buy from or supply to B&J, B&J Holdings, or Jewel, or any commercial 
relationships you have with B&J, B&J Holdings, or Jewel.   
Closeness of competition in the supply of chilled ready meals 
3. How closely do B&J and Jewel compete with each other in the supply of chilled ready 
meals in Australia? In particular, please note any key similarities and differences in the 
branded or private-label chilled ready meals provided by B&J or Jewel, including price, 
quality, variety, service levels, manufacturing process or any ancillary services provided 
by B&J or Jewel. 
4. Please identify and describe the competing suppliers of chilled ready meals in Australia, 
including the extent to which they compete with B&J and Jewel and their relative size 
and product offerings compared with B&J and Jewel.  
5. If you are a retailer or food service operator who acquires chilled ready meals, please 
identify which suppliers have competed for your business and the price, variety, service 
levels, or any other differentiations in the chilled ready meals that they supply.  
Closeness of competition in the supply of frozen ready meals 
6. How closely do B&J and Jewel compete with each other in the supply of frozen ready 
meals in Australia? In particular, please note any key similarities and differences in the 
branded or private-label frozen ready meals provided by B&J or Jewel, including price, 
quality, variety, service levels, manufacturing process or any ancillary services provided 
by B&J or Jewel. 
7. Please identify and describe the competing suppliers of frozen ready meals in Australia, 
including the extent to which they compete with B&J and Jewel and their relative size 
and product offerings compared with B&J and Jewel.  
8. If you are a retailer or food service operator who acquires of frozen ready meals, please 
identify which suppliers have competed for your business and the price, variety, service 
levels, or any other differentiations in the chilled ready meals that they supply.  
Requirements of retailers and food service operators 
9. Please identify and describe the main customers of chilled or frozen ready meals in 
Australia, including the types and sizes of customer to whom B&J or Jewel typically 
supplies, in the 
a. grocery retail segment, and  
b. food service operator segment. 
10. How do customers typically acquire chilled or frozen ready meals? You may wish to 
comment on the typical process for customers to source chilled or frozen ready meals 
from a new supplier and typical contract lengths. 
11. Are there any differences in how customers acquire private label and branded ready 
meals or how customers acquire chilled, frozen or ambient ready meals?  


 
 
5 
12. Do customers typically contract with multiple suppliers of chilled or frozen ready meals? 
Does this differ between grocery retail customers and food service customers?  
13. What are the main customer segments for chilled or frozen ready meals? Do retail 
customers and food service customers have different requirements for chilled or frozen 
ready meals?  
14. What are the impediments to customers switching between suppliers of chilled ready 
meals or switching between suppliers of frozen ready meals? How frequently do 
customers switch suppliers in practice? 
Substitutability of chilled and frozen ready meals 
15. Do consumers regard chilled and frozen ready meals to be substitutes?  
16. Do consumers regard ready meals to be substitutable with other types of prepared 
meals (for example, meal solutions supplied through grocery retailers such as rotisserie 
chickens, quiches, pies, pizzas, fresh pasta or meals purchased online and takeaway 
meals)? 
17. How readily can suppliers switch from manufacturing chilled ready meals to 
manufacturing frozen ready meals and vice versa? Are there any recent examples of 
suppliers switching between manufacturing chilled and frozen ready meals? 
Competitive constraint from new entry or expansion 
18. What are the barriers to entry or expansion for suppliers of chilled or frozen ready 
meals in Australia? You may wish to comment on: 
a. set-up costs for a new entrant or expansion costs for an existing competitor 
b. whether new entrants need to secure customers before entry and, if so, the 
minimum scale required for new entry 
c. timeframes for new entry or expansion, and 
d. any regulatory requirements or barriers for new entry or expansion.  
19. Are there any recent examples of entry or exit in the market for the supply of chilled or 
frozen ready meals in Australia? Are there any potential new suppliers of chilled or 
frozen ready meals in Australia? 
20. Please comment on the extent to which customers may be able to supply their own 
chilled or frozen ready meals, including: 
a. any examples of supermarkets or grocery stores supplying their own chilled or 
frozen ready meals 
b. any examples of food service customers such as hotels, airlines, or hospitals 
supplying their own chilled or frozen ready meals, and  
c. the expense and time required to commence self-supplying chilled or frozen 
ready meals. 
21. Please comment on the extent of any actual or potential direct competition from 
imported chilled or frozen ready meals.  


 
 
6 
Impact of vertical integration 
22. As B&J is partially owned by Woolworths, please comment on whether the proposed 
acquisition may give Woolworths the ability or incentive to limit the supply of chilled or 
frozen ready meals to competitors and the likely impact of such conduct on competition 
in the supply of ready meals to consumers. 
Other information or competition issues 
23. Please provide any additional information or comments, or identify other competition 
issues, that you consider relevant to the ACCC’s consideration of the proposed 
acquisition under section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth).  


 
 
7 
Schedule 
Jewel Fine Foods business and assets acquisition – list of sellers 
Name 
ACN 
Jewel of India Holdings Pty Ltd (Administrators Appointed) 
141 963 813 
Jewel of India Enterprises Pty Limited (Administrators Appointed) 
081 063 774 
Jewel International Foods Pty Ltd (Administrators Appointed) as 
trustee for Jewel International Foods Unit Trust 
616 403 886 
Jewel Fine Foods Pty Ltd (Administrators Appointed) 
160 567 528 
Jewel of India Admin Pty Ltd (Administrators Appointed) 
141 964 516 
Jewel Equipment Pty Ltd (Administrators Appointed) 
141 964 927 
Jewel Properties (Aust) Pty Ltd (Administrators Appointed) as 
trustee for Matta Family Trust 
112 228 663 
Jewel of India Retail Pty Ltd (Administrators Appointed) 
141 964 865 
Gardeners Nominees Pty Ltd (Administrators Appointed) 
160 155 608 
 
