 
Page 1 of 9 
 
Public Competition Assessment 
23 July 2020 
B&J City Kitchen Pty Ltd proposed acquisition of Jewel 
Fine Foods business 
 
The ACCC’s decision 
1. 
On 5 September 2019 the ACCC announced its decision to oppose the 
proposed acquisition by B&J City Kitchen Pty Ltd (B&JCK) of the business and 
assets of nine Jewel Fine Foods entities (Jewel) (the proposed acquisition). 
2. 
The ACCC considered that the proposed acquisition would be likely to 
contravene section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the Act).  
3. 
Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to have 
the effect, of substantially lessening competition in any market. 
4. 
The ACCC considered the effects of the proposed acquisition on competition in 
Australia for: 
 
the wholesale supply of chilled ready meals; and 
 
the retail supply of chilled ready meals. 
5. 
The ACCC considered that the proposed acquisition would combine the two 
largest suppliers with demonstrated experience and track records in 
manufacturing a broad range of chilled ready meals. A combined B&JCK/Jewel 
would also hold a high proportion of the existing manufacturing capacity for 
chilled ready meals. While there may have been scope for alternate suppliers to 
expand and develop their experience and track records, their ability to do so in 
the short to medium term was uncertain.  
6. 
This Public Competition Assessment outlines the reasons for the decision by the 
ACCC to oppose the proposed acquisition. 
7. 
Please note that this and other public competition assessments are subject to 
the following qualifications: 


 
Page 2 of 9 
 
The ACCC considers each transaction on a case-by-case basis and so the 
analysis and decision outlined in one assessment will not necessarily 
reflect the ACCC’s view of another transaction, even where that other 
transaction may involve the same or a related market. 
 
As assessments are brief and do not refer to confidential information 
provided by the parties or other market participants, assessments do not 
necessarily set out all of the issues and information considered by the 
ACCC, nor all of the analysis and reasons of the ACCC.  
The parties and transaction 
The acquirer: B&JCK 
8. 
B&JCK manufactures private label and branded chilled fresh, chilled post-pack 
pasteurised, and frozen ready meals, from its facility in Arndell Park, in Western 
Sydney.  
9. 
B&JCK is 77 per cent owned by Beak and Johnston Holdings Pty Ltd and 23 per 
cent owned by Woolworths Group Ltd. B&JCK supplies nationally to grocery 
retailers and wholesalers including Coles, Harris Farm, Metcash and 
Woolworths.  
The target: Jewel 
10. Jewel manufactured private label and branded chilled, frozen, and ambient ready 
meals, as well as soups, breads and fried snacks, from its facility in 
Banksmeadow in New South Wales.  
11. At the time the ACCC conducted its review, Jewel supplied nationally to grocery 
retailers and wholesalers including Aldi, Coles, Costco, Metcash and 
Woolworths. Jewel entered administration on 26 April 2019 and the parties 
entered into the proposed acquisition on 24 July 2019.   
12. The proposed acquisition involved the following Jewel Fine Foods entities: 
 
Jewel of India Holdings Pty Ltd (Administrators Appointed) 
 
Jewel of India Enterprises Pty Limited (Administrators Appointed) 
 
Jewel International Foods Pty Ltd (Administrators Appointed) as trustee for 
Jewel International Foods Unit Trust 
 
Jewel Fine Foods Pty Ltd (Administrators Appointed) 
 
Jewel of India Admin Pty Ltd (Administrators Appointed) 
 
Jewel Equipment Pty Ltd (Administrators Appointed) 
 
Jewel Properties (Aust) Pty Ltd (Administrators Appointed) as trustee for 
Matta Family Trust 


 
Page 3 of 9 
 
Jewel of India Retail Pty Ltd (Administrators Appointed) 
 
Gardeners Nominees Pty Ltd (Administrators Appointed). 
The transaction 
13. B&JCK proposed to acquire the business and assets from the nine Jewel 
entities. The proposed acquisition arose as the result of a sales process 
undertaken by the administrators of Jewel. 
Review timeline 
14. The following table outlines the timeline of key events for the ACCC in this 
matter.  
Date 
Event 
29 July 2019 
ACCC commenced informal review under the Informal 
Merger Review Process Guidelines. 
 
5 August 2019 
Closing date for submissions. 
 
29 August 2019 
Former provisional date for announcement of ACCC’s 
findings (19 September 2019) brought forward due to the 
operational circumstances of Jewel. 
 
5 September 2019 
ACCC announced that it opposed the proposed 
acquisition. 
 
15. The total elapsed time taken to complete the review from start to finish was 
approximately six weeks.  
16. Typically, if the ACCC has concerns regarding a proposed acquisition, it issues a 
Statement of Issues. In this instance, the ACCC expedited the review due to the 
circumstances surrounding Jewel and the administration, and accordingly did not 
issue a Statement of Issues. The parties were advised that there would be no 
Statement of Issues step for this matter.  
Market inquiries 
17. The ACCC conducted market inquiries with a range of industry participants, 
including current and potential competitors, customers, and other interested 
parties. The ACCC also reviewed confidential material provided by the parties 
and other market participants, including B&JCK’s internal documents discussing 
the proposed acquisition. 
Industry background 
18. Ready meals are complete meals, which require little preparation by consumers 
before consumption. Although there are various types of ready meals available, 
each generally falls within one of three broad categories: chilled, frozen or 
ambient. 


 
Page 4 of 9 
19. Chilled ready meals are cooked, packaged and chilled to refrigeration 
temperature. They require less heating time than a frozen ready meal and are 
generally viewed by consumers as fresher and having higher quality. Fresh 
chilled ready meals typically have a shelf life of between 16 and 40 days. 
20. Frozen ready meals are similar to chilled ready meals, but they require a 
freezing step at the completion of cooking and packing. Frozen ready meals 
typically have a lower price point than chilled ready meals. Frozen ready meals 
generally have a shelf life of up to 6 months. 
21. Ambient ready meals are meals that are cooked, preserved and packaged to be 
stored without the need for refrigeration. Examples of ambient ready meals are 
some soups and pastas.  
22. In this matter, the ACCC’s concerns related to chilled ready meals. However, as 
discussed below, the ACCC closely examined whether chilled ready meals are 
substitutable with other types of ready meals and convenience foods. 
Other industry participants 
23. The ACCC found that Jewel and B&JCK were the two largest manufacturers of 
chilled ready meals. Outside of Jewel and B&JCK, the ACCC found that there 
were alternative suppliers with a smaller presence, including Andrews’ Meats, 
Kitchen Food Company, and Australian Wholefoods. Each of these alternative 
suppliers produced a range of chilled ready meals, some of which were supplied 
to the major grocery retailers. However, none of these alternative suppliers 
produced chilled ready meals at the same scale of Jewel or B&JCK. 
Future with and without the acquisition 
24. Section 50 of the Act prohibits mergers or acquisitions that would have the effect 
or be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
In assessing a proposed acquisition pursuant to section 50, the ACCC considers 
the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future state of competition if 
the acquisition proceeds (the “with” position) to the likely future state of 
competition if the acquisition does not proceed (the “without” position) to 
determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to substantially lessen 
competition in any relevant market. 
25. The ACCC’s Merger Guidelines 2008 (updated 2017) outline the ACCC’s 
approach to “failing firms.”  As explained in the Guidelines, the state of 
competition prevailing at the time of a merger will overstate the future state of 
competition without the merger in situations where one of the merger parties is 
likely to exit the market. In such situations, the merger party that is likely to exit is 
referred to as a ‘failing firm’. Mere speculation that a firm will exit in the near 
future or evidence of a recent decline in profitability is insufficient to establish 
that an absence of competition between the merger parties will arise without the 
merger.  
26. In general, to demonstrate that a merger will not substantially lessen competition 
due to the prospective failure of one of the merger parties, it is necessary to 
show that: 


 
Page 5 of 9 
 
the relevant firm is in imminent danger of failure and is unlikely to be 
successfully restructured without the merger;  
 
in the absence of the merger, the assets associated with the relevant firm, 
including its brands, will leave the industry;  
 
the likely state of competition with the merger would not be substantially 
less than the likely state of competition after the target has exited and the 
target’s customers have moved their business to alternative sources of 
supply 
27. Jewel was in administration at the time of the ACCC’s decision and was clearly 
facing significant financial difficulties. However, based on the information 
available to the ACCC at the time of its decision, the ACCC found that if the 
proposed acquisition did not proceed, Jewel would likely be sold to an alternative 
acquirer and continue to compete closely with B&JCK. Therefore the ACCC 
concluded that “failing firm” arguments did not apply to this transaction.  
Market definition 
28. The ACCC’s starting point for defining relevant markets to assess the 
competitive effects of the proposed acquisition involves identifying the products 
actually or potentially supplied by the parties to the acquisition. The ACCC then 
considers what other products constitute sufficiently close substitutes to provide 
a significant source of competitive constraint. 
29. The ACCC considered effects of the proposed acquisition on competition in 
Australia for: 
 
the wholesale supply of chilled ready meals; and 
 
the retail supply of chilled ready meals. 
Wholesale supply of chilled ready meals 
30. At the wholesale level, the ACCC considered the substitutability of various 
alternative products available to B&JCK / Jewel’s customers. In particular, the 
ACCC considered the substitutability of chilled ready meals, ambient ready 
meals and meal kits.  
31. Given that the most significant wholesale purchasers of chilled ready meals are 
the major supermarket chains, the ACCC considered their likely behaviour in 
response to a small increase in price. We concluded that supermarkets are 
unlikely to substitute stocking of chilled ready meals for alternative types of 
convenience meals and products in response to a small price rise. 
32. The ACCC found that supermarkets typically stock a wide range of ready meals 
to meet consumer demand, and that chilled meals are one part of this offer. 
Decisions about stock are primarily driven by consumer behaviour at the retail 
level, where we found there is often strong demand for particular convenience 
meal types, depending on the particular circumstances influencing the consumer 
making the purchase. These preferences are discussed in more detail below. As 
a consequence, major supermarkets see the provision of chilled ready meals as 


 
Page 6 of 9 
a critical part of their offer, and other ready meals are not a substitute from their 
perspective. This is reflected in the structure of their buying and management 
teams and also in their provision of additional prominent shelf space to chilled 
ready meals in store redevelopments or new stores.  
33. On the supply-side, the ACCC considered the ability of suppliers of alternative 
convenience meals to switch production and begin to supply chilled ready meals. 
We found that the production of chilled ready meals requires particular 
manufacturing equipment and levels of sanitation.  
34. Alternative suppliers with the most similar manufacturing facilities and production 
processes were those who produced frozen ready meals. Despite these 
similarities, we concluded that the majority of frozen ready meal manufacturers 
would be unlikely to enter the production of chilled ready meals in response to a 
small change in the wholesale price of chilled ready meals.  
35. We found that not all frozen ready meal suppliers have the correct equipment 
and experience to produce chilled ready meals. For those that did, we found that 
the production of chilled ready meals is more complex than that of frozen ready 
meals. This additional complexity is predominantly driven by the shorter shelf life 
of chilled ready meals, which in turn requires more frequent and shorter 
production runs. Information provided by market participants indicated that many 
ready meal manufacturers (whether chilled or frozen) had optimised their 
facilities for the production of either frozen ready meals or chilled ready meals. 
To disrupt this production by trying to produce both, or to switch between the 
two, would be a significant departure from their business model and carry 
additional costs. 
36. Therefore, the ACCC concluded that there is likely to be a market for the supply 
of chilled ready meals at the wholesale level. 
Retail supply of chilled ready meals 
37. The consideration of the behaviour of end consumers was an important part of 
our competition analysis.  
38. In determining whether there was a market for the retail supply of chilled ready 
meals the ACCC considered whether a range of alternative convenience meals 
including frozen ready meals, delivered ready meals, takeaway and delivered 
takeaway meals and meal kits would be seen by consumers as an effective 
substitute for chilled ready meals. 
39. The ACCC found that consumer preferences differ. Some consumers may 
readily substitute between chilled ready meals and other convenience options. 
However, we found that for many consumers other convenience meal options 
are unlikely to be seen as a close substitute for chilled ready meals. For many 
consumers chilled ready meals provide cost-effective quality meals involving 
minimal preparation time and effort. Other convenience options do not offer 
these attributes, or do not offer these attributes to the same degree as chilled 
ready meals.  
40. In the case of frozen ready meals, the evidence provided to the ACCC showed 
that consumers that buy chilled ready meals do not tend to buy frozen ready 
meals and vice-versa. Consumers see chilled ready meals as fresher and having 


 
Page 7 of 9 
higher quality than frozen ready meals. As a result, chilled ready meals generally 
have higher price points. Consumers also tend to purchase frozen ready meals 
and chilled ready meals for different purposes. Chilled ready meals are often 
consumed within a matter of days, whereas frozen ready meals are often 
purchased in bulk for longer term storage. These factors indicate that generally 
consumers will not switch to a frozen ready meal in response to a small increase 
in the price of the chilled ready meals.  
41. Delivered ready meals, including some of the products sold by YouFoodz and 
Lite n Easy (noting that these brands can also be purchased in retail stores), can 
be either chilled or frozen. In the case of delivered ready meals, we considered 
that, although the physical product may be similar to those sold through retail 
outlets, the process to acquire the product was differentiated. Delivered ready 
meals require the consumer to order at least 24-48 hours in advance of 
consumption and in some cases carry a minimum order or subscription 
requirement. This additional step means that these products are unlikely to be an 
alternative for consumers wishing to make an immediate purchase through a 
supermarket or convenience store. 
42. In the case of takeaway and delivered takeaway meals, such as those delivered 
by companies like UberEats, the ACCC found that their prices are generally 
considerably higher than chilled ready meals.  Consumers seeking a cost-
effective ready-made meal are unlikely to switch to these products in response to 
small increases in the price of chilled ready meals. 
43. The ACCC also considered meal kits, which comprise a recipe and the 
ingredients required for the recipe. They are sold both through retail stores and 
delivery services. These products require significantly more preparation and 
cooking than chilled ready meals, which tends to reduce the convenience that 
some consumers are seeking when they purchase ready meals. Some meal kits 
require subscription and, as with the delivered ready meals services listed 
above, customers need to plan ahead of time. In contrast, in the case of chilled 
ready meals, consumers can collect them from a retailer as a last minute 
decision. We considered that consumers are unlikely to switch to these products 
in the event of a small increase in the price of chilled ready meals. 
44. Based on the above analysis, the ACCC concluded that other convenience 
meals are not close substitutes for chilled ready meals at the retail level. 
Competition analysis 
45. In Australia, B&JCK and Jewel were the two largest producers of chilled ready 
meals that could meet the scale, range, quality, reliability and price requirements 
of the major retailers. Other manufacturers, whilst they may have the 
manufacturing capability, did not have a proven track record of supplying the 
volumes and range of chilled meals supplied by B&JCK and Jewel. Accordingly, 
evidence from market participants indicated that there were very few alternatives 
to B&JCK and Jewel at the wholesale level, particularly in the short term. The 
ACCC considered that Jewel and B&JCK were each other’s closest competitors, 
with the level of constraint imposed by alternative suppliers being relatively low. 
46. Some alternative suppliers may have had the facility capacity to expand their 
production to meet the volume requirements of the customers that acquired 
chilled ready meals from Jewel or B&JCK. However, aside from manufacturing 


 
Page 8 of 9 
capacity, the ACCC found that a number of other factors were also important for 
chilled ready meal producers to be competitive on a large scale. These included 
expertise in quality control and supply chain management, and the ability to 
produce a range of chilled ready meal types. Information provided to the ACCC 
indicated that fulfilling these requirements is difficult and would likely take a 
considerable period of time, especially at a large scale.  
47. Given that the main purchasers of chilled ready meals at the wholesale level are 
major retailers, the ACCC also considered the degree to which they would 
possess buyer power or countervailing power to constrain any attempted price 
increase by a combined B&JCK / Jewel.  
48. Both B&JCK and Jewel have benefited from investment and ongoing 
relationships with major retailers. The ACCC found that the major retailers 
possess a level of buyer power in this market which may allow them to negotiate 
favourable terms and prices relative to other purchasers in the market.  
49. A potential response by a major supermarket chain to a price increase would be 
investment in an existing smaller alternative supplier, either through financial 
backing or a long term contract to underwrite expansion. Whilst the ACCC found 
that there may be some scope for such investment to happen in the future, an 
alternative suppliers’ ability to reach a level where they would be a strong 
constraint on a combined B&JCK / Jewel was uncertain in the short to medium 
term. The ACCC found that such development was likely to take a significant 
period of time and sunk investment, for both the alternative supplier and the 
major customer sponsoring this development. In essence, any push to do this 
would not be costless, and would most likely not constrain the combined 
B&JCK/Jewel from implementing a price increase, especially in the short to 
medium term. 
Impact on consumers 
50. Given the competition impact at the wholesale level, and the lack of substitutes 
for consumers, the ACCC considered the acquisition would likely lead to 
consumers paying more for chilled ready meals. 
Woolworths’ interest in B&JCK 
51. In addition to concerns regarding the horizontal aggregation in the supply of 
chilled ready meals, the ACCC also considered concerns regarding Woolworths 
Group Ltd’s (Woolworths) shareholding in B&J CK. 
52. Concerns were raised during market inquiries that Woolworths’ interest in 
B&JCK may result in a combined B&JCK / Jewel either restricting supply of 
products to competing retailers, or allowing Woolworths access to sensitive 
commercial information from other retailers. It was submitted that such 
information could include details of product margins, sales volumes and recipes.  
53. Ultimately, the ACCC did not need to reach a concluded view on the likelihood of 
competitive harm stemming from this further vertical integration of Woolworths, 
as it determined that the proposed acquisition was likely to substantially lessen 
competition based on the level of horizontal aggregation between B&JCK and 
Jewel.  


 
Page 9 of 9 
Conclusion 
54. Based on the above analysis, the ACCC concluded that the proposed acquisition 
was likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in the supply 
of chilled ready meals.  
 
