 
Our ref:  
IM-71117 
Contact officer:  
Eado Varon 
Contact phone:  
(03) 9910 9415 
 
 
 
13 January 2022 
Dear Interested Party 
Request for submissions: Korean Air’s proposed acquisition of Asiana 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
Korean Air Lines Co., Ltd.’s (Korean Air) proposed acquisition of a 63.88% share of Asiana 
Airlines, Inc. (Asiana) (the proposed acquisition).  
Korean Air and Asiana are global companies, which are involved in the supply of 
international passenger and freight services around the world and in Australia. In particular, 
Korean Air and Asiana both supply:  
• 
air passenger services between Australia and Korea (and in particular, between 
Sydney and Seoul); and 
• 
air freight (cargo) services between Australia and Korea, including for products, 
such as meat, agricultural and livestock products, chemical products and electronic 
products.  
Further details regarding the parties are at Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact on competition. In particular, we are 
seeking your views on:  
• 
how closely Korean Air and Asiana compete in the provision of air passenger and 
air freight services between Australia and Korea, and in particular between Sydney 
and Seoul;  
• 
whether there are sufficient alternate suppliers to maintain competition; 
• 
the impact on price or service levels if the proposed acquisition proceeds;  
• 
the likelihood of new entry into the air passenger and air freight services markets 
between Australia and Korea, and in particular between Sydney and Seoul; and  
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
tel: (02) 6243 1368 
mergers@accc.gov.au
www.accc.gov.au


• 
whether there are any other potential acquirers of Asiana.  
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the Act). Section 50 prohibits mergers and 
acquisitions that are likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a 
market. 
Please provide your response by 28 January 2022 via email with the title: Submission re: 
Korean Air / Asiana – attention Eado Varon / Olivia King. If you require more time to 
respond, please let us know. 
If you would like to arrange a time to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any 
questions about this letter, please contact Eado Varon on (03) 9910 9415 or Oliva King on 
(03) 9290 1498. 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public 
Mergers Register. 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We will not disclose 
submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by law (for 
example, under freedom of information legislation or during court proceedings) or in accordance 
with s155AAA of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to 
disclose confidential information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where possible so that you 
may have an opportunity to be heard. Therefore, if the information provided to the ACCC is of a 
confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines 
contain more information on confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
Nick Cooke 
General Manager (acting) 
Merger Investigations 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Attachment A 
The proposed acquisition 
Korean Air is proposing to acquire 63.88% of the total issued and outstanding stock of 
Asiana. Both Korean Air and Asiana provide international passenger and freight (air cargo) 
services between Australia and Korea.  
The transaction is subject to review in a number of jurisdictions including Korea, Japan, the 
European Union, China, the United Kingdom and the US. The ACCC is engaging with 
international competition authorities regarding their reviews. The parties have advised the 
ACCC that in Korea, in order to obtain regulatory approval from the Korea Fair Trade 
Commission (KFTC), the parties have offered a possible remedy relating to exchange of 
airport slots at Incheon airport. The KFTC review is ongoing and no decision has yet been 
made. 
Korean Air 
Korean Air is a privately owned full-service carrier that operates both domestic and 
international flights via a hub and spoke network that is based at Incheon International 
Airport (Incheon), which services the Seoul area. It is a member of the ‘SkyTeam’ Alliance.  
Korean Air provides both air passenger and air freight services to 107 international cities in 
42 countries.  
In Australia, Korean Air provides direct international flights between Seoul and each of 
Sydney and Brisbane. It also supplies air freight services on these routes and to / from other 
destinations (by truck to / from Sydney and Brisbane). Freight is predominantly transported 
as ‘belly freight’ (i.e., transported in the belly of passenger aircraft) rather than via dedicated 
freight aircraft.  
Asiana 
Asiana is a full-service carrier that is also headquartered in Seoul with its operations based 
out of Incheon. It is a member of the STAR Alliance, and is listed on the Korean Exchange. 
Asiana provides both air passenger and air freight services to 64 international cities in 21 
countries as part of its airline service business.    
In Australia, Asiana operates direct international flights between Sydney and Seoul and also 
offers air freight services on this route (with cargo also predominantly transported as belly 
freight). Asiana also offers flights between Seoul and Perth, though these are operated by 
Singapore Airlines via codeshare arrangements. Qantas and Asiana are also party to a 
codeshare arrangement for flights between Sydney and Seoul, with these flights being 
operated by Asiana.  
 
 
 
 
 
 


Attachment B 
Questions for all interested parties 
1. Please provide a brief description of your business or organisation.  
2. Please outline the reasons for your interest in the proposed acquisition, including any 
commercial relationships with either Korean Air or Asiana.  
3. Please discuss whether you are aware of any other viable purchasers that have 
expressed interest in acquiring Asiana or its aircraft / other assets. If so, please provide 
details.  
Questions for current or prospective competitors   
4. Please identify any air passenger and air freight services that you currently provide 
between Australia and Korea, or have plans to provide in the future.   
5. Please identify competitors for the supply of each service identified in your response to 
Question 4. Please provide estimated market shares where possible.  
6. Please discuss the likelihood of new entry into markets for air passenger and air freight 
services between Australia and Korea, and in particularly between Sydney and Seoul. In 
your response, please consider the timeframe for market entry and provide details about 
barriers to entry, such as regulatory barriers (including capacity limits or slot availability 
at airports) or access to key inputs. Please provide examples of recent entry where 
possible.   
7. Please discuss whether or not you are likely to commence the operation of flights 
between: 
a. Australia and Korea (if you are not already); and  
b. between Sydney and Seoul.   
Please include reasons as to why / why not.  
Questions for customers  
Customers of air passenger services between Australia and Korea 
8. When planning travel between Australia and Korea, please: 
a. discuss whether you consider both direct and indirect flight options, and if so, the 
factors most likely to impact your decision on which airline to fly with; and 
b. discuss whether you consider both full-service carriers (i.e., carriers that provide 
meals, baggage and entertainment as part of the ticket cost) as well low-cost 
carriers (i.e., carriers typically offering cheaper fares that do not include certain 
services such as baggage allowances, meals or entertainment).   
Customer of air freight services  
9. Please identify and describe the types of cargo that you export / import between 
Australia and Korea.  
10. Please describe any specific transport / handling requirements for the products that you 
export / import (e.g., refrigeration or delicate handling).  


11. Please describe how you procure air freight services between Australia and Korea (e.g., 
through tender or other methods).  
All customers  
12. Please identify and describe the key alternate suppliers that are capable of servicing 
your needs. In your response, please identify any suppliers that you consider to be 
particularly vigorous or effective competitors (e.g., through innovation, product offering or 
service).  
13. Please discuss whether prices may increase, or service levels may decrease due to the 
proposed acquisition, for the air passenger or air freight services that you procure in 
Australia.  
14. Please discuss the extent to which you consider Korean Air and Asiana to be close 
competitors in the supply of air passenger and air freight services between Australia and 
Korea. In your response, please consider factors such as the type of services that the 
parties supply, their geographic areas of supply and their participation in tender 
processes.  
Other information or competition issues 
15. Please provide any additional information or comments, or identify any other competition 
issues, that you consider relevant to the ACCC’s consideration of the proposed 
acquisition under section 50 of the Act.  
