 
Statement of Issues — Sonic Healthcare Limited 
– proposed acquisition of pathology businesses 
of Healthscope Limited in Queensland, NSW, 
ACT and WA 
2 August 2012 
1. 
Outlined below is the Statement of Issues released by the Australian 
Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) in relation to the proposed 
acquisition of the pathology businesses of Healthscope Limited in Queensland, 
NSW, ACT and WA by Sonic Healthcare Limited (proposed acquisition). 
2. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well 
as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
3. 
In line with the ACCC’s Merger Review Process Guidelines (available on the 
ACCC’s website at www.accc.gov.au) the ACCC has established a secondary 
timeline for further consideration of the issues. The ACCC anticipates completing 
further market inquiries by 16 August 2012 and anticipates making a final 
decision on 30 August 2012. However, the anticipated timeline can change in 
line with the Merger Review Process Guidelines. To keep abreast of possible 
changes in relation to timing and to find relevant documents, market participants 
should visit the Mergers Register on the ACCC's website at 
www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
4. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 
The proposed acquisition 
5. 
Sonic Healthcare Limited (Sonic) proposes to acquire the pathology businesses 
of Healthscope Limited (Healthscope) in the states of Western Australia, New 
South Wales (including the Australian Capital Territory) and Queensland (the 
relevant states). 
6. 
On 15 May 2012, Sonic sought informal clearance from the ACCC for the 
proposed acquisition. 
 


Sonic Healthcare Limited – proposed acquisition of pathology businesses of 
Healthscope Limited in Queensland, NSW, ACT and WA 
 
 2 
The parties 
Sonic Healthcare Limited 
7. 
Sonic provides pathology services in Australia and overseas. It offers medical 
centre management services in Australia through its subsidiary company 
Independent Practitioners Network. Sonic also provides radiology services in 
Australia and New Zealand. In the 2011 financial year Sonic had revenue of 
$3.1bn from its worldwide business, $923 million (or 30%) of this was contributed 
by its Australian pathology business. Sonic is listed on the Australian Stock 
Exchange. 
8. 
Relevant to the transaction proposed, Sonic operates the following pathology 
businesses in NSW/ACT, Queensland and Western Australia.  
Table 1: Sonic pathology businesses 
NSW/ACT 
Areas of operation 
Douglass Hanly Moir Pathology 
(including Barratt & Smith Pathology)  
Capital Pathology 
Metropolitan Sydney, Newcastle, Port 
Macquarie, the Hunter Valley, Bowral, 
Mildura (Vic), the Southern Highlands, 
the Blue Mountains, throughout rural 
NSW and the ACT. 
Southern Pathology  
Wollongong, Nowra and the NSW 
South Coast. 
Sullivan Nicholaides Pathology 
The north coast of NSW in addition to 
Qld (see below) 
Queensland 
Sullivan Nicholaides Pathology 
Metropolitan Brisbane, major regional 
centres, North Qld and the north coast 
of NSW (as above). 
Western Australia 
Clinipath/Bunbury Pathology 
Operates in metropolitan Perth and 
Bunbury  
 
9. 
Sonic operates the following pathology business in other states in Australia:  
 
Victoria: Melbourne Pathology,  
 
South Australia: Clinpath Laboratories 
 
Tasmania: Launceston Pathology, Hobart Pathology and North West 
Pathology. 


Sonic Healthcare Limited – proposed acquisition of pathology businesses of 
Healthscope Limited in Queensland, NSW, ACT and WA 
 
 3 
Healthscope Limited 
10. 
Healthscope operates private hospitals, medical centres and pathology 
businesses in most states of Australia as well as pathology businesses in New 
Zealand, Singapore, Malaysia and Vietnam.  
11. 
Healthscope was previously a public company listed on the Australian Securities 
Exchange, and in October 2010 was acquired by Asia Pacific Healthcare Group 
Pty Ltd, a company owned by funds advised and managed by The Carlyle Group 
and TPG Capital. 
12. 
Healthscope's pathology operations generally use the brand name "Healthscope 
Pathology", but are still known amongst industry participants as ‘Gribbles’ – 
which was Healthscope’s former brand name in some states  
Industry background 
13. 
Pathology is the branch of clinical medicine concerned with identifying the 
causes and processes of diseases and providing scientific analysis which forms 
an essential basis for medical diagnosis and treatment. Pathology testing 
involves the analysis of medical samples, for example blood cell counts, blood 
chemistry analyses and microbiology cultures, which are collected from patients.  
14. 
Pathology testing is required by patients and doctors in both community and 
hospital settings and is provided by both private and public pathologists. 
15. 
The supply of pathology services typically involves collecting specimens, 
transporting them to a testing laboratory, processing (testing) them, generating 
and delivering reports back to the referring practitioner/hospital, or other 
customers (e.g., corporate businesses), and providing further verbal reporting 
and commentary directly to the referring practitioner where necessary.  
16. 
The key elements of the pathology supply chain are Accredited Pathology 
Laboratories (APLs) (the laboratories) and Approved Collection Centres (ACCs) 
where pathology specimens are taken from patients, picked up by couriers and 
delivered to laboratories.  
17. 
In addition, a large number of pathology specimens, in particular tissue samples 
which fall into the histopathology and cytology sub-specialties, are taken from 
patients by medical practitioners and picked up from the practitioner’s premises 
by pathology providers’ couriers for subsequent delivery to a laboratory (doctor 
collects).  
18. 
Pathology testing can be divided into the following four broad categories and 
relevant sub-specialties:  
 
biochemistry (chemical pathology, immunology and infertility and 
pregnancy tests); 
 
haematology;  
 
microbiology; and 


Sonic Healthcare Limited – proposed acquisition of pathology businesses of 
Healthscope Limited in Queensland, NSW, ACT and WA 
 
 4 
 
histopathology and cytopathology (sometimes referred to histology and 
cytology). 
Some pathology providers also perform genetic testing. 
19. 
Different sub-specialties are automated to varying degrees with microbiology, 
biochemistry and haematology (sometimes described as “clinical pathology”) 
tending to be more highly automated and histopathology and cytology) tending to 
require greater manual preparation of samples, analysis and interpretation of test 
results.  
20. 
The highest pathology test volumes fall within the clinical pathology sub-
specialties. As these are also the most highly automated sub-specialties, there 
are significant economies of scale in performing the associated tests. The ability 
for pathology providers to be competitive in these fields therefore depends on 
their capacity and ability to process large volumes of these samples. 
21. 
All private pathology providers have invested in at least one laboratory, ACCs 
(except niche pathology providers that can rely on doctor collects), courier cars, 
IT systems and testing equipment. However, the scale of this investment varies 
significantly between pathology providers. 
22. 
For instance, the larger pathology providers typically operate ‘hub and spoke’ 
business models, which consist of a network of regionally located laboratories 
and at least one large ‘central’ laboratory. Under a hub and spoke model, 
specimens are couriered to a regional laboratory and then may be transported to 
a large-scale, central laboratory for processing, depending on the type of test.1 It 
is often the case that pathology sub-specialties are collated and sent to the same 
central laboratory which enables the providers to enhance the economies of 
scale of each laboratory by processing the same types of samples in one place 
(or as few laboratories as possible). 
23. 
Many smaller pathology providers do not process large volumes of pathology 
specimens and as a result are unable to achieve the same economies as larger 
providers. They therefore tend only to have one laboratory rather than operating 
a hub and spoke model. The ACCC’s market inquiries to date suggest that 
smaller providers can be profitable by concentrating on the less automated, less 
routine forms of pathology testing. 
Government funding 
24. 
The Commonwealth Government (Government) funds the majority of pathology 
tests through the Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS). Much of this funding is 
provided by paying pathology providers on a fee-for-service basis through 
Medicare rebates. The Pathology Services Table (PST), which lists the services 
that attract a Medicare rebate, is a subset of the MBS.2  
                                                 
 
1
 Department of Health and Ageing, Capital expenditure in the pathology sector, August 2010; 
ACCC market inquiries. 
2 Department of Health and Ageing, Review of the funding arrangements for pathology 
services, final discussion paper, March 2011. 


Sonic Healthcare Limited – proposed acquisition of pathology businesses of 
Healthscope Limited in Queensland, NSW, ACT and WA 
 
 5 
25. 
The PST includes a category of items to cover the costs of collecting and 
transporting pathology specimens (as distinct from testing the samples). This 
category sets out items to cover each “Patient Episode Initiation” (PEI) carried 
out by a pathology provider.  
26. 
The costs of pathology services provided in public hospitals are funded by state 
governments. 
27. 
Government spending on Medicare fees relating to pathology services in 
financial year 2011/2012 was as follows:  
a. Nationally: Over $2 billion, of which $1.8 billion related to pathology 
tests and the remainder related to collection of specimens. 
b. NSW/ACT: $830 million. 
c. Qld: $450 million. 
d. WA: $200 million. 
28. 
The proportion of Government spending on the major categories of pathology in 
financial year 2011/2012 (disregarding collection fees) was as follows: 
a. Biochemistry: 53%  
b. Microbiology: 17% 
c. Histology: 15% 
d. Haematology: 14% 
Other industry participants 
‘Corporate’ pathology providers 
29. 
Sonic, Primary Healthcare Limited (Primary) and Healthscope together process 
the vast majority of the pathology specimens processed in Australia. Each of 
these pathology providers operates in all mainland states and territories of 
Australia.  
St John of God Pathology 
30. 
St John of God Pathology (SJOG) is a significant pathology provider with 
multiple laboratories and ACCs in Western Australia and has a larger presence 
in WA than Healthscope. SJOG is a not-for-profit company and also operates in 
Victoria. 
Smaller pathology providers 
31. 
There are a number of smaller pathology providers who operate in just one state 
in Australia but have several ACCs and a laboratory which tend to be 
concentrated in metropolitan areas. Some of these are illustrated in Tables 2 to 
4.  
32. 
There are also several very small pathology providers who either have limited 
ACC networks and/or operate laboratories which focus on providing pathology 
services in specific categories (‘niche’ providers). 


Sonic Healthcare Limited – proposed acquisition of pathology businesses of 
Healthscope Limited in Queensland, NSW, ACT and WA 
 
 6 
Public sector pathology providers 
33. 
Public pathology service providers have laboratories based in public hospitals 
which are their primary source of demand. These providers are required to 
provide the full range of pathology services on a 24 hours, 7 days a week basis, 
including complex tests.3 
34. 
Public pathology providers also provide community pathology services to 
patients referred by GPs and specialists. Some have also established ACCs in 
the general community. 
Market inquiries 
35. 
On 16 May 2012, the ACCC commenced market inquiries regarding the 
proposed acquisition. A range of interested parties provided responses, including 
other suppliers of pathology services, referring practitioners and industry 
associations. 
Relevant markets 
Product dimension 
36. 
Sonic and Healthscope each provide comprehensive pathology services. These 
services comprise collecting pathology specimens from patients at ACCs or from 
medical practitioners (i.e. doctor collects), transporting the specimens to a 
testing laboratory, processing (testing) them, generating and delivering reports 
back to the referring doctors or other customers (such as corporate businesses), 
and providing further verbal reporting and commentary directly to the referring 
practitioner where necessary. Since these activities are integrated, and the 
ACCC is not aware of companies active in only one component, the ACCC 
considers it appropriate to regard them as forming part of an overall product of 
providing pathology services. 
37. 
There are three key sources of demand for pathology services:  
 
out-patients referred by general practitioners and specialists,  
 
private in-patients at public and private hospitals; and  
 
public in-patients at public hospitals.  
38. 
Pathology services provided to out-patients and private in-patients attract an 
MBS fee and may be accompanied by an out of pocket payment from the 
patient.4 This is described as ‘community pathology’. The pathology expenses of 
public hospital in-patients are generally covered by a State based funding 
system covering all services provided during a hospital stay. This is described as 
‘public hospital pathology’. 
39. 
Public hospital pathology services are generally carried out either in-house (that 
is, by the state government-owned hospital), or by private sector pathologists 
who have been appointed on a long term contract. Public in-patients are not 
contestable by pathologists operating outside of a hospital setting.   
                                                 
 
3 Department of Health and Ageing, Capital expenditure in the pathology sector, August 2010. 
4 The cost of this fee is typically covered by a health fund, in the case of private in-patients who 
have private health insurance. 


Sonic Healthcare Limited – proposed acquisition of pathology businesses of 
Healthscope Limited in Queensland, NSW, ACT and WA 
 
 7 
40. 
Private and public pathology providers do compete in relation to the supply of 
community pathology services – i.e. to attract out-patient referrals. The 
pathology laboratories of public hospitals are used to provide community 
pathology testing services and several of these have established multiple ACCs 
throughout the community in order to provide pathology services to out-patients. 
41. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view, therefore, is that public hospital pathology 
services form a separate market to community pathology services, but that the 
pathology businesses of public hospitals should be counted as competitors to 
private sector providers of community pathology.  
42. 
Pathology providers also compete to provide pathology services to corporate 
and government customers (corporate pathology), typically to perform tests on 
current and potential employees. Whilst some corporate customers might require 
or prefer to engage a pathology provider with a national presence, market 
inquiries have indicated that any pathology provider may potentially provide 
these services. In addition, in some specialised areas of testing, pathology 
providers may compete with a range of potential suppliers that are not active in 
the wider community pathology markets. Corporate pathology may be regarded 
as forming part of the same market as community pathology services. 
43. 
In light of the above, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the product dimension 
of the relevant markets is the supply of community pathology services. 
Geographic dimension 
44. 
Consistent with the ACCC’s review of Healthscope’s proposed acquisition of 
Symbion in 2007, market inquiries indicate that the provision of community 
pathology services involves two interrelated functions – the collection of 
pathology samples and the testing of pathology samples. With regard to the 
collection of samples, market inquiries have indicated that having ACCs is a 
critical part of any full service pathology provider’s business. 
45. 
Market inquiries have indicated that it is often necessary for a pathology 
specimen to be tested within approximately four hours of the specimen being 
collected from a patient. This requirement typically means that the pathology 
collection and testing takes place within one state or territory.  
46. 
That said, the ACCC is aware that some pathology providers do test samples 
which have been transported from an interstate collection point. The ACCC 
understands that in particular, larger pathology providers with widespread ACC 
networks and laboratories in multiple states will transport specimens interstate 
where this enhances the efficiency of testing those specimens. For example, 
specimens which involve complex testing (“esoteric tests”) may be collected from 
one or more states and tested within the same laboratory.  
47. 
Notwithstanding this, market inquiries have indicated that the vast majority of 
testing takes place in the same state in which the specimen was collected and 
that, in order to be an effective competitor in the relevant states, it is necessary 
to have a collection network and laboratory facilities in each of those states. The 
ACCC therefore considers it is appropriate to conduct the competition analysis 
on the basis of state-wide markets for the provision of community pathology 
services. 


Sonic Healthcare Limited – proposed acquisition of pathology businesses of 
Healthscope Limited in Queensland, NSW, ACT and WA 
 
 8 
Conclusion – relevant markets 
48. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the relevant markets are:  
 
the market for the supply of community pathology services in NSW 
(including the ACT);  
 
the market for the supply of community pathology services in Qld; and  
 
the market for the supply of community pathology services in WA. 
49. 
However, market inquiries have indicated the importance of ACCs for service 
delivery and competition at the local level. Therefore, the ACCC is also 
considering whether there are areas of closer competition on a geographic basis 
between the ACCs of competing pathology providers and whether, post-
acquisition, the merged entity would be able to impose price increases or 
reductions in service levels on a targeted geographic basis where there are few 
or no competing ACCs or limited prospects of new entry.  
50. 
For instance, if there is a small number of ACCs operating in competition with 
Sonic and Healthscope within a town or its neighbouring areas, the proposed 
acquisition may provide the merger parties with the ability and incentive to raise 
prices (out-of-pocket expenses) which are imposed on patients at the ACC or 
decrease service levels provided to those patients, without losing significant 
volumes of specimens to be tested in their laboratories. 
The ACCC invites comments from interested parties on the scope of the relevant 
markets and in particular whether there may be competition on a more localised level.  
Market concentration  
51. 
There are a number of ways to measure market share for the supply of 
pathology services, including on the basis of: 
a. number of ACCs owned by each pathology provider;  
b. value of Medicare payments received for pathology services; and 
c. number of Medicare-eligible pathology tests performed. 
52. 
The number and value of Medicare-eligible tests performed by each pathology 
provider are not publicly available. Medicare makes available statistics relating to 
the number of ACCs owned by each pathology provider, and these are shown in 
the tables below, as an approximation of their market shares. Specifically, the 
number of ACCs reflects a pathology provider’s collection capacity relating to 
out-patients, but excludes doctor collects, which are focused in the area of 
histology. In addition, those numbers may be inaccurate by a small margin. The 
following data are therefore provided as an approximate indication of the major 
pathology providers’ market shares in relevant regions. 


Sonic Healthcare Limited – proposed acquisition of pathology businesses of 
Healthscope Limited in Queensland, NSW, ACT and WA 
 
 9 
Table 2: Number and share of ACCs in Queensland 
Provider 
Number of 
ACCs 
Market 
Share of 
ACCs 
Sonic 
275 
35% 
Healthscope 
75 
9% 
Merged entity 
350 
44% 
Primary 
397 
50% 
Mater Pathology 
30 
4% 
Public hospitals  
4 
1% 
Other 
11 
<2% 
Sources: Medicare Australia website; pathology providers’ websites. 
Table 3: Number and share of ACCs in NSW & ACT 
Provider 
Number of 
ACCs 
Market 
share of 
ACCs 
Sonic 
468 
35% 
Healthscope 
172 
13% 
Merged entity 
640 
48% 
Primary 
458 
34% 
Medlab 
86 
6% 
SydPath (St Vincents) 
16 
1% 
Moaven 
9 
1% 
SAN Pathology 
9 
1% 
The Canberra Hospital 
7 
1% 
NSW public hospitals  
37 
3% 
Other 
84 
6% 
Sources: Medicare Australia website; pathology providers’ websites. 
Table 4: Number and share of ACCs in Western Australia 
Provider 
Number of 
ACCs 
Market 
share of 
ACCs 
Sonic 
97 
25% 
Healthscope 
49 
13% 
Merged entity 
146 
38% 
Primary 
107 
28% 
SJOG 
58 
15% 
Perth Pathology 
40 
10% 
Public (PathWest) 
28 
7% 
Other 
5 
1% 
Sources: Medicare Australia website; pathology providers’ websites. 


Sonic Healthcare Limited – proposed acquisition of pathology businesses of 
Healthscope Limited in Queensland, NSW, ACT and WA 
 
 10 
Table 5: Number and share of ACCs nationally (pre-acquisition) 
Provider 
Number of ACCs Market share of ACCs 
Primary 
1369 
35% 
Sonic 
1150 
29% 
Healthscope 
635 
16% 
SJOG (Vic + SA) 
138 
4% 
Medlab (NSW) 
86 
2% 
St Vincent’s Pathology (Vic) 
62 
2% 
IMVS (SA) 
59 
2% 
Perth Pathology (WA) 
52 
1% 
Mater (Qld) 
40 
1% 
PathWest (WA) 
28 
1% 
Other 
280 
7% 
Sources: Medicare Australia website; pathology providers’ websites. 
53. 
It can be seen from Tables 2 to 4 that the relevant markets are concentrated.  
Statement of issues 
54. 
For the purposes of this Statement of Issues, the issues in this matter are 
categorised as 'issues that may raise concerns' and ‘issues unlikely to pose 
concerns’. 
Issues that may raise concerns 
55. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition may raise 
competition concerns in the Qld, NSW/ACT and WA community pathology 
services markets.  
56. 
The ACCC notes that on the basis of ACC numbers:  
 
Sonic and Primary appear to be each other’s closest competitor; and 
 
Healthscope is the next largest pathology provider in each market other 
than WA, where SJOG is also larger than Healthscope. 
57. 
The ACCC notes the more even distribution of ACC market shares in WA (see 
Table 4), and will have regard to that factor in its analysis. 
58. 
There are a number of smaller pathology providers in each market, including 
public, not for profit and niche pathology providers. However, as discussed 
further later in this Statement of Issues, these pathology providers do not appear 
to be as effective competitors as Healthscope, primarily because they do not 
have the scale of Healthscope or the same level of presence in related markets. 
In this regard, it can be seen from Table 5 that Healthscope has a much more 
significant national presence than any pathology provider other than Primary and 
Sonic. 
59. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that Healthscope’s ownership of hospitals and 
medical centres in the relevant states and strong position in Victorian and South 
Australian pathology markets are likely to make it a particularly vigorous and 
effective competitor in the relevant markets.  
60. 
Therefore the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition would 
remove an effective competitor in the provision of community pathology services 
in Qld, NSW/ACT and WA.  


Sonic Healthcare Limited – proposed acquisition of pathology businesses of 
Healthscope Limited in Queensland, NSW, ACT and WA 
 
 11 
Price competition  
61. 
The ACCC understands that pathology providers compete in a range of complex 
and inter-related ways. As to price-based competition, the ACCC is focussing 
particularly on: whether a pathology provider bulk-bills patients; the price level 
(i.e. gap) charged to privately-billed patients; and the rates charged to health 
funds for services provided to private hospital in-patients. The ACCC 
understands that there may be some differentiation between prices for privately 
billed in-patients and privately billed out-patients.  
Increased proportions of private billing 
62. 
The ACCC understands that pathology providers may choose whether to 
privately bill or bulk bill a patient. Market inquiries have indicated that a 
pathology provider may have an incentive to privately bill patients if other large 
pathology providers also privately bill. The ACCC is therefore considering 
whether the proposed acquisition would give Sonic an ability to increase the 
proportion of patients that it privately bills, either unilaterally (potentially on a 
targeted basis, such as in local areas) or in coordination with other large 
pathology providers. 
63. 
Market inquiries have indicated that, while a pathology provider may choose 
whether to privately bill or bulk bill a patient, in practice they generally bulk bill 
concessional patients and otherwise they generally follow the request of the 
referring medical practitioner.  
64. 
In this context, the ACCC notes that in Queensland in 2009, Sonic changed its 
billing policy from one where it bulk billed most outpatient referrals to a new 
policy where it privately billed all patients other than concessional patients 
irrespective of referring practitioners’ requests. Sonic reverted to its previous 
billing policy within a matter of months due to the volume of lost referrals. Market 
inquiries indicate that rivals then rapidly returned to their previous level of referral 
volumes. Market inquiries have also indicated that pathology providers consider 
that this risk of not retaining additional volumes that may be gained due to a 
change of billing policy by a rival is a significant deterrent to expanding collection 
and testing capacity in response to such a change of billing policy. 
65. 
The ACCC notes that Sonic holds a near monopoly in the supply of community 
pathology services in Tasmania. Submissions provided to the ACCC during its 
inquiries claim that bulk billing rates are higher than in mainland states. The 
ACCC will explore this issue in further market inquiries. 
66. 
The ACCC is considering whether the absence of Healthscope as an alternative 
pathology provider might give Sonic the ability to influence the proportion of 
patients that it privately bills, including whether Sonic could: 
a. target particular geographic regions; 
b. target particular types of tests;  
c. target particular referring medical practitioners, such as specialists; 
d. target particular sources of referrals, such as medical centres owned by 
Sonic; and 
e. continue to follow referring medical practitioners’ bulk billing requests 
but be able to influence their requests. 


Sonic Healthcare Limited – proposed acquisition of pathology businesses of 
Healthscope Limited in Queensland, NSW, ACT and WA 
 
 12 
67. 
In this regard, the ACCC is considering the likely reaction of rivals to any such 
conduct on the part of Sonic. In particular, the ACCC is considering:  
a. the likelihood of rival pathology providers undertaking the necessary 
capacity investments in circumstances where Sonic could reverse any 
change of billing policy and return to previous levels of referrals; and 
b. the likelihood of rival pathology providers following such a change of 
billing policy. 
68. 
Market participants have indicated that, when assessing of the viability of 
investing in additional collection and testing capacity (e.g. several new ACCs, 
testing equipment and pathology staff), pathology providers will take into account 
the expected level of referrals that they might obtain. Market participants have 
indicated that increases in referral volumes following a change of pricing or 
billing policy by a rival are not a dependable forecast of future earnings. This is 
because the rival could reverse such a policy at any time and rapidly regain lost 
referral volumes. Market inquiries indicate that such an outcome is possible 
because the factors that supported the rival’s superior referral base prior to the 
change of billing policy may remain after it reverses that policy. In particular, the 
rival may have retained its ACCs (which may have been located conveniently but 
not used by patients due to the change of billing policy), reputation and personal 
relationships in the meantime. The relevance of these factors in supporting a 
referral base are discussed further in the ‘Likelihood of entry and expansion’ 
section below. Therefore, from market inquiries conducted to date, it appears 
that smaller market participants are reluctant to incur the costs of investments in 
new collection and testing capacity in response to a rival’s change of billing 
policy due to the risk that the additional volumes would not be sustained. 
The ACCC invites comments from interested parties on any ability for Sonic to 
increase the proportion of patients that it privately bills post-acquisition, primarily 
through a change of billing policy (whether general or targeted). The ACCC is 
particularly interested in views on the likely reaction of rival pathology providers 
to a change of billing policy by Sonic. 
Increased prices to privately billed patients 
69. 
The ACCC is considering whether the proposed acquisition would give Sonic the 
ability to increase the prices charged to patients who are privately billed (i.e. the 
‘gap’ borne by the patient). This would include any patient where the referring 
medical practitioner requests that a patient be privately billed and any in-patient 
in a private hospital who is not covered by private health insurance. 
The ACCC invites comments from interested parties on the likelihood of Sonic 
having the ability to increase prices to privately billed patients post-acquisition. 
Increased rates to health funds  
70. 
The ACCC understands that all major pathology providers have Medical Provider 
Purchaser Agreements (MPPAs) in place with most private health funds which 
allow the funds to offer a health insurance product to members which ensures 
that their members do not incur out-of-pocket expenses for pathology services 
provided to them during admission to hospital (a ‘no gap’ product). Market 


Sonic Healthcare Limited – proposed acquisition of pathology businesses of 
Healthscope Limited in Queensland, NSW, ACT and WA 
 
 13 
inquiries have indicated that the rates paid by health funds under MPPAs could 
increase due to the proposed acquisition, and be passed on to health fund 
members in the form of higher premiums. 
The ACCC invites comments from interested parties on the likelihood of Sonic 
having the ability to increase the rates paid by health funds for pathology 
services provided to private in-patients (in private or public hospitals) post-
acquisition. In particular the extent to which: 
 
health funds are able to leverage competition between pathology providers 
when negotiating MPPAs; and 
 
the bargaining position of the health funds constrains MPPA prices 
negotiated by the pathology providers. 
Non-price competition  
Decreased service levels associated with community pathology 
services 
71. 
Market inquiries have indicated that pathology providers compete closely on 
service levels associated with pathology services. For patients who are bulk 
billed, and therefore not exposed to price competition, it is particularly important 
for pathology providers to differentiate their service. Market inquiries have also 
indicated that privately billed patients may be inclined to follow the 
recommendation of the referring medical practitioner, which is likely to be based 
primarily on service levels rather than price.  
72. 
Market inquiries have indicated that pathology providers compete on a wide 
range of service-related aspects of their pathology activities. These aspects 
include: 
 
collection: the location of ACCs; opening hours of ACCs; the frequency of 
courier visits;  
 
testing: the quality and accuracy of testing; the availability of a 24/7 
laboratory service; the level of expertise of pathologists including in 
particular fields of pathology; the range of tests offered – from routine tests 
through to highly specialised, esoteric tests; 
 
results: the quality and accuracy of results reporting; turnaround time for 
results; availability for consultation with their pathologists; IT systems that 
provide better and faster test reports to doctors; the format and 
customisation of reports, the availability of historical results; the quality of 
interpretative comments provided; and 
 
relationships: the professional relationship between pathology providers 
and medical practitioners; customer service (phone answering, manners 
and presentation of staff, resolution of queries, reliability etc); the provision 
of educational information. 
73. 
The ACCC is considering whether any of these service-related aspects of 
pathology services might degrade due to the proposed acquisition. 
The ACCC invites comments from interested parties on the incentive and ability 
of Sonic to increase profits by lowering service levels (i.e. without losing so many 
referrals that the saved costs would be outweighed by lost revenues) if the 


Sonic Healthcare Limited – proposed acquisition of pathology businesses of 
Healthscope Limited in Queensland, NSW, ACT and WA 
 
 14 
proposed acquisition were to proceed. 
Decreased access to specialised testing for smaller full service 
pathology providers 
74. 
As indicated above, one service differentiator for pathology providers is the 
range of tests offered. Whilst some pathology providers present themselves as 
niche pathology providers, typically focussing on histology and cytology, others 
present themselves as full service pathology providers. Market inquiries have 
indicated that a pathology provider that presents itself as providing a full service 
must be able to accept any pathology referrals regardless of whether it actually 
possesses the necessary testing equipment. If such a pathology provider were to 
tell a patient that it was unable to perform a particular test, this would harm its 
reputation in a broader sense and it would be likely to lose referrals in other 
areas – including other tests that would be referred in conjunction with the 
specialised tests. 
75. 
Therefore, in the event that a pathology provider does not have the necessary 
testing equipment, it must on-refer the test to another pathology provider which 
has the necessary equipment. Market inquiries have indicated that, due to the 
economies of scale and scope involved in pathology testing, larger pathology 
providers are more likely to have the necessary testing equipment for more 
specialised tests. However, even the largest pathology providers do not have the 
testing equipment required for all pathology tests. 
76. 
Market inquiries have indicated that larger pathology providers have, on 
occasion, declined to perform pathology tests on behalf of smaller pathology 
providers. Provided that there is an alternative pathology provider with the 
necessary testing equipment, such conduct is not likely to raise major issues for 
the smaller pathology provider. The ACCC is therefore considering the extent to 
which the proposed acquisition might decrease the incentive of larger pathology 
providers to provide specialised testing to smaller pathology providers, on the 
basis that there will be fewer (or no) alternative pathology providers able to 
undertake this testing. In this regard, the ACCC is particularly considering 
whether Healthscope currently performs an important role in providing 
specialised pathology testing for smaller pathology providers. 
The ACCC invites comments from interested parties on any decreased incentive 
for larger pathology providers to undertake specialised testing for smaller 
pathology providers, including any decreased incentive for larger pathology 
providers to provide adequate service levels relating to that testing (such as 
turnaround times). 
Competitive constraint imposed by Healthscope  
77. 
The ACCC’s market inquiries suggest that Healthscope is a strong competitor 
and provides a significant competitive constraint on its rivals, particularly Sonic 
and Primary. Market inquiries suggest this is due to its position in the markets, 
including aspects such as its collection and testing capacity, existing referral 
base, reputation and personal relationships.  
78. 
Healthscope owns several medical centres and private hospitals, and manages 
a number of private hospitals through contracts with other private hospital 
owners. The ACCC’s market inquiries suggest that this provides Healthscope 
with greater potential access to referral volumes from in-patients (particularly in 


Sonic Healthcare Limited – proposed acquisition of pathology businesses of 
Healthscope Limited in Queensland, NSW, ACT and WA 
 
 15 
clinical pathology) and the associated economies of scale and scope in its 
testing activities. This may support further expansion of its ACC network and 
therefore enable Healthscope to access greater referral volumes relating to out-
patients. 
79. 
These reasons, in addition to Healthscope’s large network of ACCs and 
laboratories across Australia and in the relevant states, may give it the ability to 
provide a particularly strong constraint on the larger pathology providers in the 
relevant markets (Sonic, Primary and, in WA, St John of God).  
80. 
The ACCC is therefore considering the extent to which a pathology provider’s 
activities in one of the relevant markets may be assisted by its presence in 
geographically or functionally-related markets. In particular, in light of the barriers 
to expansion faced by pathology providers (discussed further below), the ACCC 
is considering the extent to which a pathology provider may benefit from 
enhanced: 
a. reputation or testing capacity if it has a presence in community 
pathology markets in other states or a presence in public pathology 
markets (i.e. the provision of pathology services to public hospitals); 
and 
b. reputation or access to referral volumes if it has a presence elsewhere 
in the health sector, such as through ownership of medical centres and 
hospitals. 
81. 
The ACCC will continue to explore the nature of the competitive constraint 
offered by Healthscope in the relevant markets. 
The ACCC invites comments from interested parties on the significance of 
Healthscope in the relevant markets. 
In particular, the ACCC seeks further information (and where possible, specific 
examples) on: 
 
the extent to which Healthscope has acted as a particularly strong 
competitive constraint as it has entered and expanded its presence in the 
relevant markets;  
 
Healthscope’s relative competitive strength in each of WA, Qld and 
NSW/ACT; 
 
the significance of Healthscope’s presence in related markets through its 
ownership of medical centres and private hospitals; and 
 
the significance of Healthscope’s strong presence in South Australian and 
Victorian pathology markets as giving it additional competitive strength in the 
relevant states. 
Significance of other pathology providers  
82. 
Market inquiries have indicated that Primary is the most immediate rival to Sonic 
in the relevant markets and therefore represents the most direct competitive 
constraint on Sonic. As discussed under the previous heading, however, market 
inquiries have indicated that Healthscope also plays a significant role in the 
relevant markets.  
83. 
The ACCC is therefore considering whether a market structure in which Sonic 
and Primary are the only major competitors may result in higher prices or lower 


Sonic Healthcare Limited – proposed acquisition of pathology businesses of 
Healthscope Limited in Queensland, NSW, ACT and WA 
 
 16 
service levels (as outlined above), including through any greater scope for them 
to act in a coordinated manner. In this regard, it is necessary to consider the 
ability of other pathology providers effectively to replicate the competitive 
constraint currently exercised by Healthscope in the relevant markets. 
84. 
Market inquiries have indicated that pathology providers other than Healthscope 
may provide some degree of competitive constraint on Sonic and Primary. 
However, market inquiries have indicated that: 
a. smaller general pathology providers face significant challenges when 
seeking to expand their referral base, particularly due to the larger 
pathology providers’ established economies of scale, collection and 
testing capacities, reputation and personal relationships (as discussed 
further below); 
b. niche pathology providers do not actively constrain full service 
pathology providers in relation to automated, volume-driven pathology 
tests; and 
c. public and not for profit pathology providers may not act in such a 
vigorous competitive manner as private pathology providers. 
The ACCC invites comments from interested parties on the competitive 
constraint imposed by other pathology providers. 
In particular, the ACCC seeks further information (and where possible, specific 
examples) on: 
 
the degree of competitive constraint exercised by Primary in the relevant 
states, including the likelihood that Primary might be a less vigorous 
competitor in the absence of Healthscope; 
 
the degree of competitive constraint exercised in WA by St John of God; 
 
any other pathology providers likely to provide a particularly strong 
competitive constraint in any of the relevant markets following the proposed 
acquisition; and 
 
the competitive constraint exercised by Healthscope’s other rivals in each of 
the relevant states, including any difference in the relative degree of 
competitive constraint exercised by smaller general pathology providers, 
niche pathology providers, public pathology providers and not for profit 
pathology providers. 
Cost advantages of the larger pathology providers 
85. 
Market inquiries have indicated that there are significant economies of scale and 
scope in collection and testing by pathology providers. The businesses of the 
three largest pathology providers, Sonic, Primary and Healthscope are 
structured and positioned to provide pathology services at lower costs than most 
other pathology providers and are therefore in a stronger position to expand their 
businesses and compete for referral volumes. Pre-acquisition, then, Primary, 
Sonic and Healthscope are likely to act as each other’s strongest competitive 
constraint. 
86. 
Market inquiries have indicated the following: 
a. Given the high number, geographic breadth and density of the ACCs 
owned by Sonic, Healthscope and Primary and collection points that 


Sonic Healthcare Limited – proposed acquisition of pathology businesses of 
Healthscope Limited in Queensland, NSW, ACT and WA 
 
 17 
they service for doctor collects, they tend to face lower incremental 
costs of establishing and servicing further ACCs, or collection points. 
b. Where testing equipment may be relatively expensive to acquire relative 
to the likely revenues from performing tests, a pathology provider may 
instead rent equipment. Given their greater volumes, it may be more 
viable for larger pathology providers to acquire testing equipment 
outright and avoid the rental costs. When a pathology provider rents 
testing equipment, it will often rent the equipment from the supplier of 
the reagents that are required for the relevant tests. The ACCC 
understands that reagent suppliers will often charge pathology 
providers on a ‘per test’ basis, which would also cover the supply of 
reagents. The ACCC understands that the ‘per test’ cost is generally set 
at a higher level for pathology providers that perform fewer tests. In this 
context, larger pathology providers may have a lower ‘per test’ cost of 
test inputs.  
c. Whereas all pathology providers are required to have a category GX or 
GY laboratory, larger pathology providers are able to operate a ‘hub 
and spoke’ laboratory network, within which the ‘spoke’ laboratories 
perform standard tests, while the centralised laboratory is also capable 
of performing more specialised tests and processing a greater volume 
of tests more rapidly. This appears to give larger pathology providers a 
lower marginal cost for tests and enables them to expand their test 
volumes at comparatively lower incremental costs. 
d. Testing-related economies of scale and scope are of particular 
relevance for the most automated test types, which typically fall in the 
categories of haematology, microbiology and chemical pathology 
(“clinical pathology”). The specimens required for these types of test are 
also very often capable of being collected by ACC staff, rather than 
requiring a doctor to collect them. The significant economies of scale 
and scope mean that pathology providers seeking to operate a 
profitable business in these areas will focus on maximising volumes and 
the providers who have large networks of ACCs are best placed to do 
this.  
e. The least automated test types typically fall in the categories of 
histology and cytology, where medical practitioners typically place more 
value on the ability of individual pathologists and scientists employed by 
a pathology provider, as well as the quality of the results analysis 
provided by the pathology provider. The specimens required for these 
types of test are typically collected by a doctor, meaning that ACCs are 
of less importance.  
f. Given the point immediately above, small and niche pathology providers 
and new entrants typically focus on histology and cytology, where they 
are better able to compete with larger pathology providers. They may 
later seek to expand their operations into clinical pathology, however 
this would ordinarily represent a significant departure from their existing 
business model. 
87. 
In light of the above factors, it would appear that the business models of Sonic, 
Healthscope and Primary enables them to achieve significant economies of 
scale and to provide pathology services at lower costs than most other pathology 
providers.  In this way, these pathology providers are more likely to be able to 
constrain each other than smaller competitors are. 


Sonic Healthcare Limited – proposed acquisition of pathology businesses of 
Healthscope Limited in Queensland, NSW, ACT and WA 
 
 18 
The ACCC invites comments from interested parties on the ACCC’s preliminary 
views regarding economies of scale and scope involved in providing community 
pathology services. 
In particular, the ACCC seeks further information (and where possible, specific 
examples) on: 
 
the extent to which the smaller providers’ relatively higher costs of providing 
pathology services limits their ability to provide an effective competitive 
constraint in the relevant markets; 
 
the efficiencies associated with establishing, expanding and running a 
collection network; and 
 
the economies of scale and scope associated with pathology testing, such as 
equipment costs,  employment costs and reagent costs.  
88. 
In light of the above discussion, the following section considers whether smaller 
competitors are likely to be in a position to grow to a level that would constrain 
the larger pathology providers.  
Likelihood of entry and/or expansion by smaller pathology providers 
89. 
The ACCC is considering whether the loss of competition between Sonic and 
Healthscope as a result of the proposed acquisition is likely to be replaced by 
new entrants or the expansion of smaller pathology providers who already 
operate in the relevant markets. 
90. 
The ACCC considers that given the high market shares of the merger parties in 
terms of the numbers of ACCs they own and the pathology volumes they 
process, it would be necessary for a new entrant or existing competitor to be in a 
position to win substantial volumes of referrals away from the larger parties in 
order to provide an effective competitive constraint in the relevant markets. In 
this context, market inquiries have indicated that pathology providers face 
substantial impediments to timely expansion of their referral base, which is 
necessary for any investment in pathology collecting and testing capacity to be 
viable. 
91. 
Market inquiries indicate there are two main categories of issues relating to the 
likelihood of new entry and expansion: 
i. 
The role of personal relationships and reputation in building referral 
volumes; and 
ii. 
Impediments to establishing ACCs in locations that are likely to deliver 
referral volumes to support viable entry or expansion. 
The ACCC seeks further information and evidence relating to the likelihood of 
entry and expansion sufficient to off-set any loss of competition arising from the 
proposed acquisition. In particular, the ACCC seeks information on the two main 
categories of issues relevant to this question, as described below. 
Obtaining referrals: Establishing reputation and relationships  
92. 
As a general principle, a patient has a choice of pathology provider. However, 
market inquiries have indicated that patients generally follow the 
recommendation of their general practitioner or specialist. 


Sonic Healthcare Limited – proposed acquisition of pathology businesses of 
Healthscope Limited in Queensland, NSW, ACT and WA 
 
 19 
93. 
Market inquiries have indicated that the quality and reliability of testing and 
reporting by pathology providers are very important to referring medical 
practitioners. While pathology providers must comply with minimum standards 
imposed by the National Association of Testing Authorities (NATA), the authority 
responsible for accreditation of laboratories in Australia, market inquiries have 
indicated that there are many other aspects of the quality and reliability of testing 
and reporting that are important to medical practitioners. Market inquiries have 
indicated that these factors are particularly important for non-standardised, non-
automated tests. 
94. 
These factors mean that trust between a medical practitioner and pathology 
provider is critical. Trust must be acquired over time. In the longer-run, a 
pathology provider may establish personal relationships with individual medical 
practitioners and a reputation in the broader market. Market inquiries have 
indicated that, for this reason, a pathology provider’s reputation and personal 
relationships with medical practitioners are critical to obtaining referrals.  
95. 
In this context, the ACCC is considering whether incumbent pathology providers 
may hold an advantage over new entrants seeking referrals (including 
established pathology providers seeking to expand their referral base). More 
specifically, the ACCC is considering the extent of time and effort required to 
establish a reputation and personal relationships and, conversely, the extent to 
which rivals’ pre-existing personal relationships and reputation may act as a 
further impediment to obtaining referrals – even with a superior price or service 
offering.  
96. 
Market inquiries have indicated that the process of establishing a reputation and 
relationship with medical practitioners is slow and difficult, with no guarantee of 
success. As a result, expansion of a referral base tends to be gradual and 
incremental.  
97. 
Quicker expansion may be possible if a pathology provider recruits staff 
(primarily pathologists) from established players or if a pathology provider has an 
established presence in a related market.  
a. With an established presence in pathology in another geographic 
region, a pathology provider may have an established brand reputation 
and may be able to use established laboratory facilities in that region.  
b. A pathology provider may have an established brand reputation in the 
health sector that could assist in pathology markets. Similarly, a 
pathology provider that owns hospital or medical centres may be able to 
use that ownership to its advantage in pathology markets. 
98. 
Rapid increases in referral numbers may also follow from a change of billing 
policy by a rival pathology provider, such as Sonic’s change of billing policy in 
Queensland in 2009. 
The ACCC invites comments from interested parties on the significance of 
reputation and personal relationships for obtaining referrals and the difficulty in 
establishing a good reputation and close personal relationships. 
In particular, the ACCC seeks further information (and where possible, specific 
examples) on: 
 
the difficulties involved in establishing a reputation and personal relationships 
with medical practitioners; 
 
the extent to which reputational issues are more relevant for certain types of 


Sonic Healthcare Limited – proposed acquisition of pathology businesses of 
Healthscope Limited in Queensland, NSW, ACT and WA 
 
 20 
tests or type of medical practitioner (e.g. GPs and specialists); 
 
the extent to which personal relationships are more relevant for certain types 
of tests or type of medical practitioner (e.g. GPs and specialists); 
 
the most viable means by which a pathology provider may rapidly expand its 
referral base and retain that expanded referral base; and 
 
the feasibility of a new entrant or expanding smaller pathology provider 
recruiting staff from a rival as a means to achieve greater referrals. 
Obtaining referrals: Collection centres and doctor collects 
99. 
Market inquiries have indicated that having ACCs is a critical part of any full 
service pathology provider’s business. Without ACCs, a pathology provider must 
rely on doctor collects. This may be a viable option for a niche pathology 
provider focussing on fields such as histology and cytology because a medical 
practitioner typically will take tissue samples and pap smears. In general though, 
patients will use an ACC for more routine specimens, such as blood (which can 
be taken by a nurse), urine and stools (both of which can be provided by a 
patient with minimal assistance). 
100. The use of ACCs is not an option for hospital in-patients. 
101. Market inquiries have therefore indicated that ACCs are used by pathology 
providers as a means for capturing out-patient referrals for testing of specimens 
such as blood, urine and stools. In this context, the principal basis on which 
pathology providers are able to maximise referrals obtained from ACCs is on the 
basis of their convenience to patients.  
102. The price to the patient may also be a relevant factor overriding convenience, 
particularly if the most convenient pathology provider would privately bill a 
patient that could obtain bulk billed pathology services elsewhere (as occurred 
with Sonic’s change of billing policy in Queensland in 2009). 
103. Market inquiries have indicated that there are two respects in which a pathology 
provider can maximise the convenience of ACCs: their location and their opening 
hours. 
104. ACCs can be characterised as falling into two broad categories: ‘co-located’ and 
‘standalone’. Co-located ACCs are located at or very close to medical practices, 
with the primary aim being to obtain referrals from patients attending the medical 
practice, some of which will be providing specimens on the same day as a 
consultation. Standalone ACCs are located at an independent site, located close 
to the homes or work places of as many potential patients as possible, whilst 
also taking into account the locations of rival ACCs. 
105. The viability of a co-located ACC depends primarily on the number of patients 
attending the relevant medical practice. In some cases, a co-located ACC will be 
located on the premises of the medical practice and the pathology provider will 
sub-lease part of the site for the ACC. In those cases, the principal of the 
medical practice (sometimes acting through a practice manager) will have the 
ability to determine which pathology provider may establish a co-located ACC.  
106. Market inquiries have indicated that there are two broad bases for selecting a 
pathology provider: the amount of rent offered and the quality of the pathology 
service provided. Principals vary widely in the respective priority that they place 
on these two elements. To the extent that a principal is concerned as to the 


Sonic Healthcare Limited – proposed acquisition of pathology businesses of 
Healthscope Limited in Queensland, NSW, ACT and WA 
 
 21 
quality of the pathology service provided, they will typically consult the medical 
practitioners working at the medical practice.  
107. Market inquiries have therefore indicated that: 
a. in some cases, a pathology provider will be able to establish a co-
located ACC on the basis of an ability to pay a greater amount of rent – 
this will typically be one of the pathology providers with the greatest 
economies of scale, bearing in mind that the types of specimens 
collected at an ACC tend to be those that are subject to economies of 
scale in testing – in this respect, the economies of scale of a pathology 
provider will tend to be self-reinforcing; and 
b. in other cases, a pathology provider will be able to establish a co-
located ACC on the basis of the actual or perceived quality of pathology 
services that they provide – for these ACCs, a pathology provider’s 
reputation and personal relationships with medical practitioners are 
particularly important – as discussed above, these factors tend to favour 
incumbents. 
108. Prior to 1 July 2010, pathology providers were very limited in the number of 
ACCs that they were able to open, due to restrictions on the number of ACC 
licences that a pathology provider could hold. Following deregulation of ACC 
licence numbers, there was a rapid increase in the number of ACCs being 
operated by pathology providers. 
109. Since deregulation, most new ACCs have been opened by the larger providers – 
Sonic, Healthscope and Primary. However, there has been significant expansion 
by some smaller pathology providers relative to their size before deregulation. In 
the relevant states, these include Medlab in NSW and Perth Pathology in WA. 
The ACCC is exploring whether this expansion means that smaller providers, 
such as these, could readily expand to provide a stronger competitive constraint 
post-acquisition. The ACCC is also considering whether, alternatively, this 
expansion was the result of a one-off opportunity (following deregulation) and 
whether similar levels of expansion are likely.  
The ACCC invites comments from interested parties on the factors relevant to 
the significance of ACCs for obtaining referrals and the ability of pathology 
providers to establish viable ACCs in current market conditions. 
In particular, the ACCC seeks further information (and where possible, specific 
examples) on: 
 
whether the expansion of ACCs by smaller pathology providers such as 
Medlab in NSW or Perth Pathology in WA is evidence that smaller providers 
are likely to expand to constrain the merged entity post-acquisition;  
 
whether smaller pathology providers are able viably to expand their ACC 
networks as quickly as they did immediately following deregulation of ACC 
licences in 2010; 
 
the factors relevant to whether a new ACC is likely to be profitable, including 
the minimum number of referrals required; 
 
the geographic range over which a smaller pathology provider is likely to 
locate new ACCs, particular where a potential location lies substantially 
outside the existing coverage of its ACCs; 
 
the geographic range over which doctor collects are viable, particularly where 


Sonic Healthcare Limited – proposed acquisition of pathology businesses of 
Healthscope Limited in Queensland, NSW, ACT and WA 
 
 22 
the location for an additional doctor collect lies substantially outside the 
existing coverage of a pathology provider; 
 
the extent to which a new entrant would face different challenges now 
relative to a new entrant in the first year following removal of those 
restrictions; and 
 
any advantages held by incumbents in relation to the establishment of further 
ACCs. 
110. The ACCC’s concern is that neither potential new entry nor the prospect of 
smaller pathology providers expanding their capacity, are likely to provide a 
strong competitive constraint on the merged entity in the relevant markets. 
Issues unlikely to pose concerns 
Pathology services for corporate customers 
111. Market inquiries to date have indicated that competition concerns are unlikely to 
arise in relation to the supply of pathology services to corporate customers. 
ACCC's future steps 
112. The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers market responses 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
113. The ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on each of the 
issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that may be 
relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. 
114. Submissions are to be received by the ACCC no later than 16 August 2012. The 
ACCC will consider the submissions received from the market and the merger 
parties in light of the issues identified above and will, in conjunction with 
information and submissions already provided by the parties, come to a final 
view in light of the issues raised above. 
115. The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 30 August 2012. 
However the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Merger Review 
Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose of 
explaining the ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's public 
announcement. 
