Page 1 of 17 
 
Public Competition Assessment 
28 August 2013 
Sonic Healthcare Limited - proposed acquisition of 
pathology businesses of Healthscope Limited in 
Queensland, Western Australia and the Australian Capital 
Territory (including the Southern Tablelands region of New 
South Wales) 
Introduction 
1. On 11 October 2012, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission 
(ACCC) announced its decision:  
 
to oppose the proposed acquisition by Sonic Healthcare Limited (Sonic) of 
the pathology business of Healthscope Limited (Healthscope) in 
Queensland (the Queensland proposed acquisition), since it would be 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in the market 
for the supply of community pathology services in Queensland, in 
contravention of section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 
(the Act); and  
 
to not oppose Sonic’s proposed acquisition of the pathology business of 
Healthscope in Western Australia (the WA proposed acquisition), since it 
would not be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition 
in any relevant market.  
2. Subsequent to its decision regarding the Queensland and WA proposed 
acquisitions, Sonic provided a submission seeking informal clearance of its 
proposal to acquire the pathology business of Healthscope in the Australian 
Capital Territory (the ACT) and the Southern Tablelands region of New South 
Wales (the ACT proposed acquisition). On 31 January 2013, the ACCC 
announced its decision to not oppose the ACT proposed acquisition, since it would 
not be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in any 
relevant market. 
3. The ACCC made its decision on the basis of the information provided by the 
merger parties and information arising from its market inquiries. This Public 
Competition Assessment outlines the basis on which the ACCC reached its 


 
Page 2 of 17 
decisions in relation to the proposed acquisitions, subject to confidentiality 
considerations. 
Public Competition Assessment 
4. To provide an enhanced level of transparency in its decision making process, the 
ACCC issues a Public Competition Assessment for all proposals where: 
 
an acquisition is opposed; 
 
an acquisition is subject to enforceable undertakings; 
 
the parties to the acquisition seek such disclosure; or 
 
an acquisition is not opposed but raises important issues that the ACCC 
considers should be made public. 
5. This Public Competition Assessment has been issued because the Queensland 
proposed acquisition was opposed by the ACCC. 
6. By issuing Public Competition Assessments, the ACCC aims to provide the public 
with a better understanding of the ACCC's analysis of various markets and the 
associated merger and competition issues. It also alerts the public to 
circumstances where the ACCC’s assessment of the competition conditions in 
particular markets is changing, or likely to change. 
7. Each Public Competition Assessment is specific to the particular transaction under 
review by the ACCC. While some transaction proposals may involve the same or 
related markets, it should not be assumed that the analysis and decision outlined 
in one Public Competition Assessment will be conclusive of the ACCC’s view in 
respect of other transaction proposals, as each matter will be considered on a 
case-by-case basis. 
8. Public Competition Assessments outline the ACCC’s principal reasons for forming 
views on a proposed acquisition at the time the decision was made. As such, 
Public Competition Assessments may not definitively identify and explain all issues 
that the ACCC considers arise from a proposed acquisition. Further, the ACCC’s 
decisions generally involve consideration of both non-confidential and confidential 
information provided by the parties and market participants. In order to maintain 
the confidentiality of particular information, Public Competition Assessments do not 
contain any confidential information or its sources. 
The parties 
The acquirer: Sonic Healthcare Limited 
9. Sonic provides pathology and radiology services in Australia and overseas. It also 
offers medical centre management services in Australia through its subsidiary 
company Independent Practitioners Network. In the 2012 financial year, Sonic had 
revenue of $3.4 billion from its worldwide business, $1 billion (or 30%) of this was 
contributed by its Australian pathology business. Sonic is listed on the Australian 
Securities Exchange. 


 
Page 3 of 17 
10. Sonic operates the following pathology businesses in Australia: 
 
Queensland: Sullivan Nicolaides Pathology. 
 
Western Australia: Clinipath/Bunbury Pathology. 
 
Australian Capital Territory: Capital Pathology. 
 
Victoria: Melbourne Pathology. 
 
New South Wales: Douglass Hanly Moir Pathology (including Barratt & 
Smith Pathology), Southern Pathology and Sullivan Nicolaides Pathology. 
 
South Australia: Clinpath Laboratories. 
 
Tasmania: Launceston Pathology, Hobart Pathology and North West 
Pathology. 
The target: Healthscope Limited 
11. Healthscope operates private hospitals, medical centres and pathology businesses 
in most states of Australia as well as pathology businesses in New Zealand, 
Singapore, Malaysia and Vietnam.  
12. Healthscope was previously a public company listed on the Australian Securities 
Exchange. In October 2010, Healthscope was acquired by Asia Pacific Healthcare 
Group Pty Ltd, a company owned by funds advised and managed by The Carlyle 
Group and TPG Capital. 
13. Healthscope's pathology operations generally use the brand name ‘Healthscope 
Pathology’, but are still known amongst some industry participants as ‘Gribbles’, 
which was Healthscope’s former brand name in some states.  
Industry background 
Pathology testing 
14. Pathology is the branch of clinical medicine concerned with studying the nature, 
diagnosis and causes of diseases. Pathology testing involves the analysis of 
medical samples, for example blood cell counts, which are collected from patients.  
15. Pathology testing can be divided into the following four broad categories and 
relevant sub-specialties:  
 
biochemistry (chemical pathology, immunology and infertility and 
pregnancy tests); 
 
haematology;  
 
microbiology; and 
 
histopathology and cytopathology (sometimes referred to as histology and 
cytology). 


 
Page 4 of 17 
16. Some pathology providers also perform genetic testing. 
17. The testing for different sub-specialties is automated to varying degrees. 
Microbiology, biochemistry and haematology (sometimes collectively described as 
‘clinical pathology’) tend to be more highly automated and generate the highest 
pathology test volumes. Consequently, there are significant economies of scale 
associated with performing these tests. Histology and cytology tend to require 
greater manual preparation of samples, analysis and interpretation of test results.  
Pathology collection  
18. Pathology samples are collected from patients via various channels, including at 
Approved Collection Centres (ACCs), by doctors (including specialists) at medical 
practices (‘doctor collects’), at hospitals and at patients’ homes. 
19. Although obtaining pathology samples solely from doctor collects may be a viable 
option for a niche pathology provider focussing on fields such as histology and 
cytology, having ACCs is a critical part of any full service pathology provider’s 
business. This is because a significant proportion of pathology test volumes are 
generated at ACCs. ACCs can be ‘co-located’ at medical practices (by sub-leasing 
part of a medical practice) or ‘standalone’ at an independent site. 
Pathology funding 
20. Most pathology testing is funded in one or more of the following ways: 
 
Commonwealth government – the Commonwealth Government 
(Government) funds the majority of pathology tests through Medicare 
rebates on a fee-for-service basis, in some cases supplemented by out-of-
pocket expenses paid by patients (see further below). 
 
Health funds – for private in-patients with private health insurance, a 
private health fund will cover the gap (see further below) for privately billed 
patients. For this purpose, private health funds seek to enter into Medical 
Provider Purchase Agreements (MPPAs) with pathology providers. 
 
State governments – the pathology expenses of public in-patients at 
public hospitals are generally covered by a State-based funding system 
covering all services provided during a hospital stay. 
21. The mechanism for billing pathology tests, except for public in-patients covered by 
a State-based funding system, is described below. 
22. A pathology provider can choose whether to receive only the applicable Medicare 
rebates for services it provides (‘bulk bill’) or to impose an additional charge to 
patients, known as an ‘out of pocket’ expense or ‘gap’ (‘privately bill’). This 
decision is influenced by a range of factors, including whether the patient is a 
concession card holder, the preference of the doctor as expressed on the referral 
form, the billing policy of competing pathology providers and the complexity of the 
test. The pathology pricing is implemented through the billing policy of each 
pathology provider. 
23. When a pathology provider chooses to bulk bill its patients, the pathology provider 
obtains payment directly from the Government. The result is that the services are 


 
Page 5 of 17 
effectively free to the patient and the pathology provider is exposed to minimal 
credit risk. 
24. When a pathology provider chooses to privately bill, the patient may pay the whole 
amount charged by the pathology provider and obtain reimbursement of the 
applicable Medicare rebate from the Government. Alternatively, the patient may 
pay only the ‘gap’ to the pathology provider, in which case the patient must obtain 
a cheque from the Government for the applicable Medicare rebate and forward it to 
the pathology provider. In effect, when a pathology provider chooses to privately 
bill, the Government and the patient share the cost of the patient’s pathology tests.  
25. A pathology provider may be able to obtain substantially greater revenue if it 
privately bills patients, who must then pay out of pocket expenses. However there 
is a materially greater credit risk associated with invoicing and seeking payment 
from out-patients relative to seeking payment directly from Medicare, as it relies on 
the patient paying the out-of-pocket expense and may also require the patient to 
pass on the applicable Medicare rebate to the pathology provider.1 The size of the 
out-of-pocket expense is generally set at a level that is sufficient to mitigate this 
risk. 
26. In this Public Competition Assessment, references to ‘price increases’ should be 
read as including both or either of:  
 
a decision to privately bill for the supply of pathology services that would 
previously have been bulk billed; and/or 
 
an increase in the gap for privately billed pathology services. 
27. A patient must obtain a referral from a medical practitioner for a pathology test. 
Pathology providers provide branded referral forms to medical practitioners, which 
patients then take with them to an ACC. Since 11 December 2010, patients have 
been free to take these forms to any pathology provider, regardless of the branding 
on the form, unless a particular provider is specified by the referring medical 
practitioner on clinical grounds. The medical practitioner may express a preference 
on the referral form for the patient either to be bulk billed or privately billed; 
however, a pathology provider can choose to disregard such a request. 
Industry participants 
28. Sonic, Primary Healthcare Limited (Primary) and Healthscope together process 
the vast majority of the pathology specimens in Australia, and are sometimes 
referred to as the ‘corporate’ pathology providers. Each of these pathology 
providers operates in all mainland states and territories of Australia. The corporate 
pathology providers operate ‘hub and spoke’ business models. This consists of at 
least one large ‘central’ laboratory and a network of regionally located laboratories. 
29. Primary trades as Laverty Pathology in NSW and the ACT, QML Pathology in 
Queensland and Western Diagnostic Pathology in WA. 
                                                 
1 There is relatively little credit risk involved with privately billing insured in-patients who are 
covered by health insurance.  


 
Page 6 of 17 
30. St John of God Pathology (SJOG) is a significant pathology provider with multiple 
laboratories and ACCs in Western Australia and Victoria. It is a not-for-profit 
company.  
31. There are a number of smaller, full service pathology providers who operate in just 
one state in Australia, typically with one laboratory. Their ACCs tend to be 
concentrated in metropolitan areas. There are also several very small pathology 
providers who either have limited ACC networks and/or operate laboratories which 
focus on providing pathology services in specific categories (‘niche’ providers). 
32. Public pathology providers have laboratories based in public hospitals which are 
their primary source of demand. These providers are required to provide the full 
range of pathology services on a 24 hours, 7 days a week basis, including complex 
tests. Public pathology providers generally also provide pathology services to 
patients referred by GPs and specialists, with some having ACCs in the general 
community, usually in the area surrounding the public hospital. 
Competition in the supply of pathology services 
33. The ACCC found that competition between pathology providers may be manifested 
in one or more of the following ways:   
 
Bulk billing levels: The proportion of patients being bulk billed, which 
depends on a pathology provider’s billing policy.  
 
Prices to privately billed patients: The amount of the gap set by 
pathology providers for privately billed patients. 
 
Health funds: The rates negotiated under MPPAs between pathology 
providers and private health funds. These rates are reflected in insurance 
premiums. 
 
Service levels: Non-price aspects of pathology services. The ACCC 
considered that while pathology providers must comply with minimum 
standards imposed by the National Association of Testing Authorities 
(NATA), the authority for accrediting laboratories in Australia, pathology 
providers compete on a number of other service-related aspects, such as 
the number and convenience of ACC locations, opening hours of ACCs, 
range of tests and customer service. 
The proposed transaction 
34. Sonic initially proposed in May 2012 to acquire the pathology businesses of 
Healthscope in New South Wales (including the ACT), Western Australia and 
Queensland. The ACCC commenced a public review of these three proposed 
acquisitions. However on 17 September 2012, Sonic announced that it no longer 
intended to acquire Healthscope’s pathology businesses in New South Wales, so 
the ACCC did not proceed to a decision regarding the NSW proposed acquisition. 
35. Sonic subsequently advised the ACCC that it proposed to acquire the pathology 
business of Healthscope in the ACT and the Southern Tablelands region of New 
South Wales. The ACCC commenced a public review of that proposed acquisition 
on 2 January 2013, drawing on information and documents gathered during the 
earlier review. 


 
Page 7 of 17 
Review timeline 
36. The following table outlines the timeline of key events in this matter. 
Date 
Event 
Queensland, WA and NSW proposed acquisitions  
16 May 2012 
 
ACCC commenced review under the Merger Review Process 
Guidelines. 
6 June 2012 
Closing date for submissions from interested parties. 
3 July 2012 
ACCC requested further information from the merger parties. 
ACCC timeline suspended.  
27 July 2012 
 
ACCC received submissions from the merger parties. ACCC 
timeline recommenced. 
2 August 2012 
ACCC published a Statement of Issues outlining preliminary 
competition concerns. 
16 August 2012 
Closing date for submissions relating to Statement of Issues. 
27 August 2012 
 
ACCC requested further information from the merger parties. 
ACCC timeline suspended.  
14 September 2012 
 
ACCC received further information from the merger parties. 
ACCC timeline recommenced. 
17 September 2012 
 
Sonic announced that it no longer proposed to acquire 
Healthscope's pathology businesses in New South Wales. 
11 October 2012 
 
ACCC announced it would oppose the Queensland proposed 
acquisition and would not oppose the WA proposed acquisition. 
ACT and Southern Tablelands region of NSW proposed acquisition 
2 January 2013 
ACCC commenced review under the Merger Process 
Guidelines. 
31 January 2013 
ACCC announced it would not oppose the ACT proposed 
acquisition. 
Market inquiries 
37. The ACCC conducted market inquiries with a range of interested parties, including 
other pathology providers, referring practitioners, private health funds and industry 
associations. 
With/without test 
38. Section 50 of the Act prohibits mergers or acquisitions that would have the effect or 
be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in any market. In 
assessing a proposed acquisition pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC 
considers the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future competitive 
environment post-acquisition if the acquisition proceeds (the “with” position) to the 
likely future competitive environment if the acquisition does not proceed (the 
“without” position) to determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in any relevant market. 


 
Page 8 of 17 
39. As regards the Queensland and WA proposed acquisitions, the ACCC considered 
that the likely future competitive environment absent the proposed acquisition 
would be the status quo, that is, Healthscope would continue to operate as an 
independent, viable and effective competitor. As regards the proposed acquisition 
in the ACT and Southern Tablelands region of NSW, the ACCC considered that 
Healthscope was likely to provide a weaker competitive constraint in the future 
absent the proposed acquisition. 
Market definition 
40. The relevant markets were considered to be: 
 
the market for the supply of community pathology services in Western 
Australia;  
 
the market for the supply of community pathology services in Queensland; 
and 
 
the market for the supply of community pathology services in New South 
Wales / ACT.  
Product dimension 
41. Pathology services consist of a number of integrated services, including collecting 
pathology samples, transporting them to an Accredited Pathology Laboratory 
(APL), processing (testing) the samples, generating and delivering reports and 
discussing with the referring medical practitioner, where necessary. 
42. Since these activities are integrated, and the ACCC is not aware of companies 
active in only one component,2 the ACCC considers it appropriate to regard them 
as forming part of an overall product of providing pathology services. 
43. There are three key sources of demand for pathology services:  
 
out-patients referred by general practitioners and specialists;  
 
private in-patients at public and private hospitals; and  
 
public in-patients at public hospitals.  
44. Pathology services provided to the first two sources of demand attract a Medicare 
rebate and are described as ‘community pathology’.  
45. Pathology services provided to public in-patients are covered by a State-based 
funding system and are described as ‘public hospital pathology’. Public hospital 
pathology services are generally carried out either in-house or by private sector 
pathology providers who have been appointed on a long term contract. Public in-
patients are not contestable to pathology providers operating outside of these 
arrangements.  
                                                 
2 The ACCC recognises that there is some scope for third parties such as courier companies to 
be engaged to provide transportation. However this does not appear to occur on any material 
scale. 


 
Page 9 of 17 
46. Private and public pathology providers do compete in relation to the supply of 
community pathology services.3 Some pathology laboratories of public hospitals are 
used to provide community pathology testing services and several of these have 
established ACCs in the community. 
47. The ACCC’s view, therefore, is that the supply of pathology services to public in-
patients does not fall within the supply of community pathology services. However, 
public pathology providers should be included as actual or potential competitors in 
relation to the supply of community pathology services to out-patients.  
48. Pathology providers also compete to provide pathology services to corporate and 
government customers (corporate and government pathology services), 
typically to perform tests on current and potential employees. Whilst some 
corporate customers might require or prefer to engage a pathology provider with a 
national presence, market inquiries have indicated that a national presence is not 
required in most cases. In addition, in some specialised areas of testing, pathology 
providers may compete with a range of potential suppliers that are not active in the 
wider community pathology markets. Nonetheless, corporate and government 
pathology services may be regarded as forming part of the same market as 
community pathology services. 
49. In light of the above, the ACCC’s view is that the product dimension of the relevant 
markets is the supply of community pathology services. 
Geographic dimension 
50. Market inquiries indicated that it is often necessary for a pathology specimen to be 
tested within approximately four hours of being collected from a patient. This time 
constraint means that APLs are typically located close to population centres and 
specimens are generally tested in the same state or territory in which they are 
collected. The ACCC is aware of exceptions to this, for example specimens 
collected on the north coast of New South Wales may be tested in Brisbane.  
51. For the purposes of its review of the proposed acquisitions, the ACCC treated each 
of Western Australia, New South Wales (including the ACT) and Queensland as 
separate markets. However, the ACCC noted that the geographic dimension of 
these markets may not exactly mirror state boundaries, reflecting efficiencies in 
collection coverage and testing locations, and that there is the potential for more 
localised effects. 
Statement of Issues 
52. The ACCC published a Statement of Issues on 2 August 2012 identifying a number 
of competition issues relating to the WA proposed acquisition and the Queensland 
proposed acquisition. The ACCC stated its preliminary view that these proposed 
acquisitions may raise competition concerns in the relevant community pathology 
services markets.  
                                                 
3 Public pathology providers may provide pathology services to private in-patients in public 
hospitals on a non-contestable basis under authorised or notified exclusive dealing 
arrangements. For instance, pathology services for private in-patients in NSW public hospitals 
must be provided by pathology providers appointed by NSW public health organisations, unless 
it is not in the patient’s best interest. This arrangement is subject to exclusive dealing 
notifications lodged with the ACCC in 2009.  
 


 
Page 10 of 17 
53. The ACCC identified the following key issues of concern: 
 
Whilst Sonic’s closest competitor appears to be Primary, Healthscope is the 
next largest pathology provider in Queensland, and is the fourth largest 
behind SJOG in Western Australia. Other pathology providers did not 
appear to be as close competitors as Sonic, Primary, Healthscope and 
SJOG (the latter in Western Australia only). 
 
Healthscope’s ownership of hospitals and medical centres in Western 
Australia and Queensland and its strong position in other pathology 
markets including in Victoria, South Australia and New South Wales are 
likely to make it a particularly vigorous and effective competitor in the 
relevant markets. 
54. The ACCC stated that competition concerns were unlikely to arise in relation to the 
supply of pathology services to corporate and government customers. 
Competition analysis 
55. The ACCC found that the competition analysis applying to each of the proposed 
acquisitions shared a number of common features relating to the closeness of 
competition between the corporate pathology providers (i.e. Sonic, Primary and 
Healthscope), the significance of barriers to entry and expansion and the potential 
for localised competition effects. Those common features are therefore discussed 
first, followed by competition analysis relating to each of the proposed acquisitions. 
56. The ACCC obtained a range of data relating to pathology providers’ testing 
activities to assess their respective positions in the relevant markets. This data 
cannot be disclosed since it is confidential. However, Medicare publishes statistics 
relating to the number of ACCs owned by each pathology provider. These are used 
in the discussion below, to provide an approximation of their market shares. The 
number of ACCs reflects a pathology provider’s collection capacity relating to out-
patients – i.e. not including doctor collects and not accounting for the actual 
volume of specimens collected.  
Closeness of competition between corporate pathology providers 
57. The ACCC found that the corporate pathology providers generally constitute each 
other’s closest competitive constraint in most states and territories of Australia. 
This is because they have established: 
 
wide coverage of their ACCs; 
 
wide coverage of their courier networks;  
 
a full range of pathology testing capability;  
 
networks of laboratories, including in regional centres; and 
 
widespread recognition of their brands. 


 
Page 11 of 17 
Barriers to entry and expansion 
58. The ACCC considered whether, following the proposed acquisitions, another 
pathology provider might be capable of entering and expanding its presence to 
replicate the competitive constraint currently imposed by Healthscope. The ACCC 
considered whether such entry or expansion would be likely, timely and sufficient 
to deter any potential price or non-price effects that might otherwise result from the 
proposed acquisitions. 
59. The ACCC found that there are material sunk costs associated with establishing 
and expanding a referral base and testing capacity and that there are economies 
of scale, both in collecting and processing specimens. This deters small scale 
entry, except on a ‘niche’ basis, as described at paragraph 31. In addition, the 
ACCC found that pathology providers face substantial impediments to timely 
expansion of their referral base, which is necessary for any investment in 
pathology collecting and testing capacity to be viable. 
60. The ACCC identified four main categories of obstacles relating to pathology 
providers expanding their referral base: 
 
Misalignment of incentives – the person receiving the pathology services, 
the person selecting the pathology provider and the person paying for the 
pathology services are often not the same. This means that there may be 
some misalignment of incentives between them, resulting in dampened 
sensitivity to changes in price and/or service levels. 
 
Switching costs – although medical practitioners (and therefore patients) 
do not make any formal commitment to a pathology provider that they will 
use their services, there were costs associated with switching between 
pathology providers, including uncertainty in the quality of service provided 
by an alternative pathology provider and dependence on, or familiarity with, 
a pathology provider’s software, IT systems or reporting format. 
 
Establishing reputation and relationships – significant time and effort 
needs to be expended over a substantial period of time to establish a 
reputation and personal relationships with referring medical practitioners, 
which assist with retaining and broadening a referral base. Therefore 
incumbent pathology providers may hold an advantage over new entrants 
seeking referrals or pathology providers seeking to expand their referral 
base, who must contest strong, established relationships between existing 
pathology providers and medical practitioners. As a result, expansion of a 
referral base tends to be gradual and incremental. 
 
Collection centres – pathology providers that do not rely on doctor collects 
need to establish ACCs in locations that are convenient for patients and 
likely to deliver sufficient referral volumes, taking into account rental levels. 
Following the removal of regulations limiting the number of ACCs that could 
be operated by a given pathology provider on 1 July 2010, there was a 
rapid increase in the number of ACCs. The ACCC found that most of the 
new ACCs that were established at that time were ‘defensive’ – i.e. 
established to support an existing referral base rather than to capture 
additional volume. The ACCC therefore considered that the rapid 
expansion of ACCs that occurred immediately following deregulation was 


 
Page 12 of 17 
not likely to be repeated and that the viability of establishing new ACCs in 
future was likely to be far more marginal.  
61. The gradual and incremental nature of the expansion of pathology providers’ 
referral base has an impact on their geographic coverage. Pathology providers 
other than the corporate pathology providers cover only certain regions within the 
relevant state or territory. As they expand, they tend to do so by incrementally 
expanding around their existing geographic coverage. In other words, a pathology 
provider would be far more likely to start servicing an area that is adjacent to the 
areas that it already services than an area hundreds of kilometres away. This 
means that some pathology providers that are active in a certain market (i.e. a 
certain state) do not pose an immediate competitive constraint in some regions of 
that market and may not be sufficiently likely to expand into those regions in a 
sufficiently timely manner to be relevant to the competitive process there. 
62. The ACCC found that a new entrant or existing pathology provider seeking to 
expand may be able to gain referrals relatively rapidly as a result of a change of 
billing policy by a rival pathology provider or by offering bulk billing to patients that 
are currently privately billed. However, in these circumstances a smaller pathology 
provider may be deterred from incurring the costs associated with establishing or 
expanding its collection and testing capacity due to the prospect of rapidly losing 
any additional referral base that it gains through these means. This is because an 
incumbent could utilise its established collection and testing capacity, reputation 
and professional relationships to regain its lost customer base rapidly, and at little 
cost, by reversing such a change in policy or by responding on a targeted basis, for 
example by altering its billing policy at relevant ACCs. Such a change of billing 
policy, including a subsequent reversal, occurred in Queensland in 2009. This 
event is described in the competition analysis section for Queensland below.  
Localised competition effects 
63. The ACCC considered that competition effects may arise on a localised basis 
within a given market (i.e. within a given state). This is because patients are willing 
to travel only a limited distance to visit an ACC. Notwithstanding the presence of 
multiple pathology providers in a given state, there are areas covered only by a 
subset of those pathology providers (i.e. areas where only some pathology 
providers have ACCs and/or provide doctor collects). This may facilitate localised 
competition effects arising from an acquisition.  
64. The ACCC identified several geographic areas where Sonic and Healthscope were 
the only pathology providers with an ACC. In those areas, the number of corporate 
pathology providers with ACCs would decrease from two to one following the 
proposed acquisitions. However, the ACCC considered that Primary would be 
likely to establish a local ACC relatively quickly if Sonic were to increase prices or 
decrease service levels in those areas, given Primary’s presence across the 
relevant states and established reputation in the relevant markets.  
65. The ACCC therefore primarily considered whether the aggregation of two of the 
three corporate pathology providers in each of the relevant markets would result in 
a substantial lessening of competition, taking into account:  
 
the level and significance of the competition provided by Healthscope in the 
relevant markets for community pathology that would be lost post-
acquisition; and 


 
Page 13 of 17 
 
whether the competition provided by Healthscope in each market could be 
replaced by another existing or potential pathology provider post-acquisition 
in a timely way. 
66. In particular, given the on-going competitive constraint provided by Primary in the 
relevant markets, the ACCC considered whether any coordinated effects were 
likely to arise from the proposed acquisitions. 
Competition analysis – Queensland 
67. The Medicare figures relating to the number of ACCs held by each pathology 
provider in Queensland were as follows: 
Pathology provider 
Share of ACCs (21 May 2012) 
Primary (QML Pathology) 
~50% 
Sonic (Sullivan Nicolaides Pathology) ~35% 
Healthscope 
~10% 
Mater Pathology 
~4% 
Coastal Pathology 
~1% 
Pathology Queensland 
~1% 
Other 
~1% 
Competitive constraint imposed by Healthscope 
68. Information and documents obtained by the ACCC following publication of its 
Statement of Issues indicated that, although Sonic and Primary are likely to be the 
closest competitors of each other in Queensland, there was evidence of a 
substantial degree of rivalry between Sonic, Primary and Healthscope. 
69. Despite Healthscope’s relatively small market share, the ACCC reached the view 
that it provides an appreciably stronger level of competition relative to other 
pathology providers in the Queensland market other than Sonic and Primary. In 
particular: 
 
Healthscope’s ACCs are located across multiple regions within Queensland 
and it has more than double the number of ACCs in Queensland compared 
to the next largest competitor, Mater Pathology. Healthscope’s ACCs are 
located across Queensland rather than being concentrated in a particular 
region; 
 
Healthscope runs a hub and spoke laboratory network in Queensland, 
which allows it to maximise the efficiency of its pathology testing, unlike the 
smaller pathology providers; 
 
Healthscope has been steadily growing its pathology referral volumes; and 


 
Page 14 of 17 
 
while Healthscope must compete to obtain referrals by tendering or leasing 
sites for ACCs within medical centres owned by third parties, its ownership 
of several medical centres and private hospitals in Queensland provides it 
with access to convenient locations from which to compete for referrals 
without having to incur the high costs of renting space for ACCs. 
The 2009 Queensland event 
70. The ACCC considered an event in 2009 relating to Sonic’s billing policy in 
Queensland to be particularly relevant to its assessment of the likely effect of the 
Queensland proposed acquisition. 
71. In 2009, each of the corporate pathology providers sent a series of letters to 
medical practitioners informing them that it was not sustainable for pathology 
services to continue to be bulk billed and encouraging them only to request bulk 
billing for financially disadvantaged patients. In July 2009, Sonic changed its billing 
policy in Queensland so that it would privately bill a much greater proportion of 
patients. As a consequence, Sonic rapidly lost referrals until it reversed this 
change of billing policy in early 2010. Sonic then rapidly regained much of its lost 
referral volumes. This appeared to be due to its established relationships and 
reputations, and the short period in which the policy change was in place. 
72. The ACCC obtained documents and information from the merger parties and third 
parties relating to the 2009 Queensland event. Due to confidentiality restrictions, 
the ACCC cannot provide any detail regarding those documents and information. 
However, based on these, the ACCC concluded that Healthscope had played a 
significant role in disrupting a potentially broader move by Sonic and Primary to 
privately bill a larger proportion of patients in Queensland. 
Significance of other pathology providers 
73. As outlined above, the ACCC considered that smaller pathology providers face 
significant hurdles to expanding their presence. The ACCC concluded that none of 
the remaining pathology providers in Queensland were likely – in a timely manner 
– to replicate the competitive constraint currently provided by Healthscope. In 
particular, the ACCC noted: 
 
Mater Pathology is a not-for-profit pathology provider affiliated with the 
Mater Hospitals in Brisbane. It does not have the same commercial drivers 
as a private pathology provider. It has less than half the market share of 
Healthscope and does not appear likely to expand its presence very 
substantially in the short to medium-term. 
 
Coastal Pathology has a very small market share and is focussed on 
providing a local service on the Sunshine Coast. 
 
Pathology Queensland is a public pathology provider, currently 
experiencing cuts to its budget. It is focussed on providing pathology 
services to in-patients and has only two ACCs in the community. 
74. The ACCC therefore concluded that the remaining pathology providers in 
Queensland (or potential new entrants) were not likely to provide a comparable 
level of competitive constraint to Healthscope in a timely manner, post-acquisition. 


 
Page 15 of 17 
Conclusion 
75. The ACCC concluded that the Queensland proposed acquisition would result in the 
removal of a significant competitive constraint in the Queensland market that was 
not likely to be replicated by any existing or new pathology providers post-
acquisition, and therefore would be likely to result in a substantial lessening of 
competition. 
76. The ACCC considered that the events surrounding Sonic’s change of billing policy 
in Queensland in 2009 were a strong indication of the level of inter-dependence of 
the billing policies of the corporate pathology providers in Queensland. The ACCC 
therefore considered that the Queensland proposed acquisition was likely to 
increase the prospect that a change of billing policy by either Sonic or Primary 
would be accommodated by the other and not disrupted by any existing or new 
pathology provider, resulting in more patients being privately billed.  
77. The ACCC further considered that a substantial lessening of competition in the 
Queensland market may also be manifested in aspects of pathology providers’ 
price and service offering other than their bulk billing policies. 
Competition analysis – Western Australia 
78. The Medicare figures relating to the number of ACCs held by each pathology 
provider in WA were as follows: 
Pathology provider 
Share of ACCs (21 May 2012) 
Primary (Western Diagnostic Pathology) ~28% 
Sonic (Clinipath/Bunbury Pathology) 
~25% 
SJOG 
~15% 
Healthscope 
~13% 
Perth Pathology 
~10% 
PathWest 
~7% 
Other 
~1% 
Competitive constraint imposed by Healthscope 
79. The ACCC considered that Healthscope’s presence in the WA market imposed a 
material competitive constraint on the other pathology providers in terms of price 
and service offerings for community pathology. In this regard, the ACCC noted: 
 
Healthscope had considerably expanded its ACC network and had the 
testing and collection capacity to take significant volumes of referrals from 
its rivals. 
 
Market inquiries indicated that Healthscope was aggressively competing for 
co-located ACCs at medical centres by paying high levels of rent. 


 
Page 16 of 17 
 
Healthscope’s ownership of medical centres and the Mount Hospital 
provided a strong pathology referral stream. 
Significance of other pathology providers 
80. The ACCC considered whether the remaining pathology providers in WA would 
provide a level of competition post-acquisition that was comparable to 
Healthscope. 
81. Market inquiries indicated that the market shares in WA are more evenly 
distributed among a larger number of full service pathology providers with 
significant geographic coverage of WA. In particular, PathWest and SJOG have a 
greater presence than Healthscope in WA. Market inquiries with medical practices 
indicated that there are a number of alternative pathology providers available if the 
merged firm were to privately bill or change its service offering. 
Conclusion 
82. The ACCC therefore considered that, although the WA proposed acquisition was 
likely to remove a significant player, it was not likely to substantially lessen 
competition in the WA market, given that: 
 
a number of pathology providers would remain in the WA market that would 
continue to provide a comparable level of competition; and 
 
although Healthscope appeared to be a strong competitor winning market 
share from Sonic, Primary and others, the competitive constraint offered by 
Healthscope, and likely to be offered by Healthscope in the future without 
the proposed acquisition, did not appear to be significantly different or 
superior to that of other competitors in the WA market, such as SJOG and 
PathWest. 
Competition analysis – ACT and Southern Tablelands 
83. The ACCC considered the ACT proposed acquisition in the context of the market 
for the supply of community pathology services in New South Wales / ACT. The 
ACCC found that pathology providers not servicing the ACT or Southern 
Tablelands region provided very little competitive constraint in relation to the 
Healthscope pathology business that Sonic proposed to acquire. As such, and 
given that the Southern Tablelands region is immediately adjacent, the ACCC 
assessed the competitive effects of the proposed acquisition primarily in the ACT. 
84. The Medicare figures relating to the number of ACCs held by each pathology 
provider in the ACT were as follows: 
Pathology provider 
Share of ACCs (21 May 2012) 
Sonic (Capital Pathology)  
~41% 
Primary (Laverty Pathology) ~25% 
Healthscope 
~18% 
ACT Pathology 
~16% 


 
Page 17 of 17 
Competitive constraint imposed by Healthscope 
85. Market inquiries indicated that while Healthscope was competitive in the ACT, it did 
not appear to be a particularly significant competitor. 
86. The ACCC also formed the view that Healthscope was likely to impose a weaker 
competitive constraint in the ACT in the event that the ACT proposed acquisition 
did not proceed. 
Significance of other pathology providers 
87. The ACCC found that two other full-service pathology providers would remain in 
the ACT market to constrain Sonic post-acquisition: Primary and ACT Pathology. 
 
ACT Pathology is a public pathology provider with a significant presence in 
the ACT and has a policy always to bulk bill. The ACCC considered ACT 
Pathology to be a viable alternative to Sonic but noted the limitations on 
ACT Pathology’s ability to expand and take on substantial referral volumes. 
 
Primary has a smaller presence in the ACT than in other states but market 
inquiries indicated that Primary is well-placed to expand its presence in the 
ACT to constrain Sonic, particularly if Sonic were to increase prices or 
decrease service levels post-acquisition. 
Conclusion 
88. The ACCC concluded that the ACT proposed acquisition was not likely to 
substantially lessen competition in the ACT, given that: 
 
Sonic would continue to be constrained by Primary and the public provider, 
ACT Pathology; and 
 
Healthscope did not appear to be a particularly strong competitor and was 
likely to impose a weaker competitive constraint in the ACT in the event 
that the proposed acquisition did not proceed. 
Conclusion 
89. On the basis of the above, the ACCC formed the view that:  
 
the Queensland proposed acquisition would be likely to result in a 
substantial lessening of competition in the market for the supply of 
community pathology services in Queensland in contravention of section 50 
of the Act; 
 
the WA proposed acquisition would not be likely to result in a substantial 
lessening of competition in the market for the supply of community 
pathology services in WA; and 
 
the ACT proposed acquisition would not be likely to result in a substantial 
lessening of competition in the market for the supply of community 
pathology services in New South Wales (including the ACT). 
