 
Page 1 of 18 
 
Statement of Issues 
8 October 2020 
 Alsco – proposed acquisition of Spotless Laundries’ 
garment business  
Purpose 
1. 
Alsco Pty Limited (Alsco) proposes to acquire Spotless Group Holdings 
Limited’s (Spotless) garment laundry services business (Spotless Garments) 
(Alsco and Spotless Garments together, the Parties) (the proposed 
acquisition). Spotless Garments is part of Spotless’ commercial laundry 
services business, which incorporates both linen and garment laundering 
(Spotless Laundries).   
2. 
This Statement of Issues: 
 
gives the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission’s (ACCC) 
preliminary views on competition issues arising from the proposed 
acquisition;  
 
identifies areas of further inquiry; and 
 
invites interested parties to submit comments and information to assist 
our assessment of the issues. 
3. 
Statements of Issues do not refer to confidential information provided by the 
parties or other market participants and therefore may not fully articulate the 
ACCC’s preliminary position.  
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views 
4. 
In considering the proposed acquisition, the ACCC applies the legal test set out 
in section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the CCA). In general 
terms, section 50 prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to 
have the effect, of substantially lessening competition in any market. 
5. 
The ACCC divides its preliminary views into three categories, 'issues of concern', 
'issues that may raise concerns' and ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’. In this 
Statement of Issues there are multiple ‘issues of concern’. 


Alsco – proposed acquisition of Spotless Laundries’ garments business 
 
Page 2 of 18 
Issues of concern 
6. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in the supply of commercial laundry services for 
garments: 
 
in the geographic areas where the parties overlap, namely New South 
Wales, South Australia, Queensland, Tasmania, Victoria and Western 
Australia; and  
 
multi-state markets.1  
7. 
The proposed acquisition will combine the two largest commercial laundry 
suppliers for garments in most states and the only two commercial laundry 
suppliers for garments with a comprehensive multi-state presence.  
Making a submission 
8. 
The ACCC invites submissions from interested parties. 
9. 
Interested parties should provide submissions by 5pm Friday 30 October 2020. 
Responses may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: Submission 
re: “Alsco/Spotless Laundries - attention Jonathan Koay/Tess Macrae”. If you 
would like to discuss the matter with ACCC staff or have any questions about 
this Statement of Issues, please contact Jonathan Koay on (03) 9658 6436 or 
Tess Macrae on (03) 9290 1835.   
10. 
The ACCC anticipates making a final decision on Thursday 17 December 2020, 
however, this timeline can change. To keep up with possible timing changes and 
to find relevant documents, interested parties should visit the Mergers Register 
on the ACCC's website at https://www.accc.gov.au/public-registers/mergers-
registers/public-informal-merger-reviews.  
Confidentiality of submissions 
11. 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We 
will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) 
unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation 
or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the CCA. Where 
the ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, the ACCC will notify 
you in advance where possible so that you may have an opportunity to be heard. 
Therefore, please identify any confidential information that is provided to the 
ACCC. Our Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more 
information on confidentiality. 
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’ 
12. 
A Statement of Issues is not a final decision about a proposed acquisition. A 
Statement of Issues outlines the ACCC’s preliminary views and identifies further 
lines of inquiry. 
                                                 
 
1 That is, for customers that seek a contract with a supplier that covers two or more states.  


Alsco – proposed acquisition of Spotless Laundries’ garments business 
 
Page 3 of 18 
13. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 
The parties 
The acquirer: Alsco 
14. 
Alsco is wholly owned by Alsco Inc., a company based in Utah in the United 
States.  
15. 
Alsco provides commercial laundry services focusing on garments, but also 
provides linen laundry services specialising in food and beverage customers. It 
operates thirteen processing plants and two distribution centres throughout 
Australia. 
16. 
Commercial laundry services for garments commonly include the pickup, 
cleaning and delivery of items such as uniforms and other workwear used in 
manufacturing, industrial and food services industries.   
Spotless Laundries 
17. 
Spotless Laundries, a division of Spotless, is a supplier of commercial laundry 
services in Australia. Its services include the hire, cleaning and delivery of linen 
and garments.  
18. 
Spotless Laundries primarily supplies laundry services for both linen and 
garments to healthcare and industrial customers in metropolitan and regional 
areas, but also services accommodation customers in some areas. It operates 
ten processing plants and four depots across Australia. 
19. 
Spotless is majority-owned by Australian listed company Downer EDI Limited.  
The target: Spotless Garments, a part of Spotless Laundries 
20. 
Alsco is proposing to acquire certain garment business assets of Spotless 
Laundries (Spotless Garments) and is participating in a competitive bid 
process. Alsco would not acquire the Spotless Laundries linen laundering 
business, which could either be retained by Spotless or purchased by another 
bidder.2  
Sale of Spotless Laundries  
21. 
The ACCC is also assessing the proposed acquisition of the entire Spotless 
Laundries business by South Pacific Laundry. This includes both linen and 
garments assets (refer to the ACCC’s Merger Register).    
                                                 
 
2 This includes food and beverage linen and other item volumes (e.g. mats) connected with garments customers. 


Alsco – proposed acquisition of Spotless Laundries’ garments business 
 
Page 4 of 18 
Industry background 
The supply chain  
22. 
There are two main classes of laundered items: linen and garments. 
23. 
Laundered garments are generally uniforms, such as chefs’ jackets, aprons, 
coats, pants, tops and industrial overalls. In terms of laundering requirements:  
 
Certain customers require sterile garment cleaning, such as those used 
in medical, pharmaceutical, hazardous materials or food processing 
environments (reputation of the laundry supplier is particularly important 
for these customers). While these items may have to be washed in 
dedicated loads, the equipment used is mostly the same as for non-
sterile loads.  
 
Other customers may have medium to large volume requirements, such 
as those in manufacturing or food processing. At this stage, the ACCC is 
primarily interested in these types of customers, which are typically 
serviced by suppliers of significant scale. While the Parties also have a 
number of customers with small garments volumes, these customers are 
likely to have available alternative suppliers, including small regional 
suppliers, and therefore these customers are not the focus of the ACCC’s 
review.     
 
Certain garments customers may purchase their own garments rather 
than hiring (known as ’customer owned goods’) and only outsource the 
laundering services. This appears to be limited and is not currently a 
significant area of focus for the ACCC.  
 
Some customers also require a full service supplier, which includes 
garment delivery to specific employee lockers.   
24. 
Linen refers to fabric goods including bedding, towels and tablecloths. Within 
linen, there are different customer categories with varying linen needs: 
accommodation;3 food and beverage;4 and healthcare and aged care.5 
25. 
The basic laundering process and the equipment typically used can be 
summarised as follows: 
Pickup soiled laundry → Sorting by item / size by hand → Washing in large 
‘tunnel’ washing machines or washer extractors → Drying in tumble driers → 
steam finishing (for garments) / ironers (for linen) → Allocation of linen or 
garments by customer → Laundry folded manually or by machine (garments can 
be hung on storage rails) → Delivery to customer (for garments, this may include 
delivery to specific lockers) 
                                                 
 
3 E.g. hotels, motels, bed and breakfasts. Items include pillowcases, flat sheets, doona covers, bedspreads, bath 
towels, etc. 
4 E.g. restaurants, stadiums, convention centres. Items include tablecloths, napkins, tea towels, etc. 
5 E.g. hospitals, retirement villages. Items include flat sheets, scrubs, sterile theatre packs, patient gowns. 


Alsco – proposed acquisition of Spotless Laundries’ garments business 
 
Page 5 of 18 
26. 
Linen and garments share a similar washing and drying process. However, the 
finishing equipment, rail system and operational process for large-scale 
garments processing are distinctly different to linen. Individual garments are 
placed on clothes hangers attached to a rail system that proceed through a 
steam tunnel machine. The steam jet removes fabric wrinkles and garments are 
ready for customer delivery. In contrast, linen items are processed through a 
series of ironing, folding and stacking machines. Garments also require distinctly 
different rail conveyor infrastructure.  
27. 
The ACCC understands that certain smaller garments suppliers may use tumble 
driers as an alternative to steam tunnels. However, this may only be viable for 
limited volumes and is likely to require additional labour. Market feedback 
suggests that steam tunnel machines are required to capture additional scale 
efficiencies above certain volume thresholds. The ACCC is continuing to explore 
the extent to which suppliers can utilise tumble driers as an alternative to steam 
tunnel machines.  
28. 
From a delivery perspective, industrial customers often assign garments, such 
as overalls with nametags, to specific employees. This requires the laundry 
service supplier to track and re-stock individual lockers. In contrast, linen 
customers generally have specific drop-off areas at their site and re-distribute 
the linen internally. 
Tender and contract processes  
29. 
Most commercial customers purchase laundry services via tendering or 
competitive quote processes. Contracts are typically two to three years, often 
with an option to extend.   
30. 
Many customers opt for a ‘full rental model’ where the laundry supplier 
purchases linen/garments for the customer at the start of the contract and the 
customer hires the items back from the laundry supplier.  
31. 
Contracts often do not have contractual penalties for early termination. However, 
many customers rent their linen and garments from the laundry suppliers and 
may have to pay an exit payment for the residual / depreciated value of the linen 
or garments purchased by the supplier. 
Areas of overlap 
32. 
The Parties overlap in the supply of commercial laundry services for garments 
nationally and in multiple states.  
33. 
Alsco will also be acquiring some of Spotless Laundries’ laundering volumes for 
the following items because they form part of Spotless Laundries’ contracts with 
its garments customers (Spotless Laundries will retain the volumes of these 
items for its other customers):  
 
floor mats laundering;  
 
continuous towel rolls, mops, tea towels, microfiber cloths laundering; 
 
table linen laundering (e.g. napkins and tablecloths); and 


Alsco – proposed acquisition of Spotless Laundries’ garments business 
 
Page 6 of 18 
 
customers who purchase garments via one of the Parties but who do not 
use the ongoing laundering services of that Party.  
34. 
However the additional volume of these items to be acquired by Alsco appears 
to be relatively small. In addition, the ACCC considers there are likely to be a 
number of competing suppliers of these services in the relevant geographic 
areas, including Spotless Laundries post-acquisition. The ACCC does not 
consider these are significant overlaps and has not considered them further in its 
analysis.  
Market definition 
35. 
The ACCC’s starting point for defining relevant markets to assess the proposed 
acquisition is to identify the areas of overlap between the products and 
geographic regions actually or potentially supplied by the merger parties. The 
ACCC then considers other actual or potential suppliers of those products, and 
whether other products and geographic regions constitute sufficiently close 
substitutes to provide a constraint on the merged entity.6  
36. 
Here, as Alsco only proposes to acquire Spotless Laundries’ garments business, 
the primary areas of overlap are the supply of commercial laundry services for 
garments on a single state and multi-state basis. 
37. 
Issues relating to customer and supplier substitution, and the geographic scope 
of the relevant markets, are explored below.  
Product dimension 
38. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the relevant product dimension is likely to 
be the supply of commercial laundry services for garments.  
39. 
As stated in the ACCC’s Merger Guidelines,7 market definition is purposive. It 
should be tailored to the potential contravention in issue. The ACCC’s starting 
point is the overlap between Alsco and Spotless Garments in commercial 
laundry services for garments,8 being the relevant area of rivalry between the 
Parties that would be lost as a result of the proposed acquisition.  
Garment and linen laundry suppliers  
40. 
The ACCC is considering whether linen laundry suppliers are relevant 
substitutes for garment laundry suppliers, which might suggest a broader 
commercial laundry services market. From a customer perspective, garments 
and linen are used for distinctly different purposes and cannot be substituted. 
From a supplier perspective, the ACCC is considering the extent to which linen 
laundry suppliers could reallocate capacity or install new equipment for 
laundering garments in response to a price rise or reduction in service quality by 
the merged entity. This involves considering whether a supplier’s capacity to 
                                                 
 
6 See ACCC, Merger Guidelines 2008 (updated 2017), paragraphs 4.10 – 4.13. 
7 See ACCC, Merger Guidelines 2008 (updated 2017), paragraph 4.9. 
8 Including mats that form part of a customers’ garment laundering contract. 


Alsco – proposed acquisition of Spotless Laundries’ garments business 
 
Page 7 of 18 
provide one service can profitably be switched to supply another service quickly 
and without significant investment.9 
41. 
In the SPL-Spotless SOI, the ACCC considered that from a supplier perspective, 
there were no significant technical or equipment cost impediments to laundries 
specialising in linen moving into or switching between laundering linen and 
garments.10 However, the ACCC also noted that some market feedback 
indicated that for a linen supplier, switching from linen to garments would be 
more difficult than switching between linen customer types, with a greater need 
to invest in specialised equipment.11 The ACCC has received further information 
that reinforced this market feedback, and strengthened the reasons why garment 
laundering may be a separate market to linen laundering.   
42. 
As discussed further in paragraphs 62 to 66 below, the ACCC considers there 
are some distinct features of garment laundering compared to linen laundering 
that limit whether a linen supplier can and would switch to supply garments 
quickly, and without significant investment.  
43. 
The ACCC will continue to examine the incremental costs of – and any other 
barriers to – laundries moving from linen to garments, before finalising its view 
on the scope of the relevant product dimension.  
44. 
Within garment laundering, the ACCC has also considered: 
 
whether disposable garments are a sufficiently close substitute; and 
 
whether there is segmentation by customer industry.     
Disposable garments 
45. 
Some suppliers have identified disposable, single use garments as an alternative 
to reusable textile items, particularly for healthcare customers that require sterile 
theatre packs. They consider that disposable garments are increasing in 
availability, quality and cost effectiveness, and remove the administrative burden 
of customers arranging laundering. Disposable garments are therefore 
potentially a viable alternative for certain laundered products now and in the 
future.  
46. 
Market inquiries indicate that certain customers who currently use reusable 
garments do not see disposable garments as an alternative (relevantly, while 
there may be increasing use of disposable items in healthcare, scrubs and 
hospital gowns are usually contracted under linen laundering rather than 
garments). Reasons may include the environmental impact or longer term costs 
compared to reusable garments, or that a non-textile alternative is not suitable 
for some uses. Some suppliers have submitted that they do not see disposable 
garments as a threat to their garment laundering volumes. 
47. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that disposable garments provide a limited 
constraint on laundered garments. It appears there are some customers who 
                                                 
 
9 ACCC, Merger Guidelines 2008 (updated 2017), paragraphs 4.12 – 4.26. 
10 ACCC, South Pacific Laundry – proposed acquisition of Spotless Laundries, Statement of Issues, 27 August 2020 
(SPL-Spotless SOI) available here, paragraph 38. 
11 SPL-Spotless SOI, paragraph 39. 


Alsco – proposed acquisition of Spotless Laundries’ garments business 
 
Page 8 of 18 
have or can switch partly or fully to disposable garments. However there are 
other customers who, for practical or other reasons, do not consider disposable 
garments as a suitable alternative to laundered garments.  
Segmentation by customer industry 
48. 
Both Alsco and Spotless Garments service garments customers in the industrial 
and hospitality industries (as noted, healthcare items such as scrubs and 
hospital gowns are considered linen items). As described at paragraph 23, some 
customer items may require special cleaning, however the laundering uses the 
same equipment and processes.  
49. 
Some customers may choose not to outsource garment laundering. For 
example, customers who do not have special cleaning requirements might leave 
employees to launder their own uniforms. 
50. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that there is no apparent segmentation by 
customer industry in commercial laundry services for garments. 
Preliminary conclusion on product dimension  
51. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is the appropriate market to assess the proposed 
acquisition is the supply of commercial laundry services for garments. This 
reflects the purposive nature of market definition, Alsco and Spotless Garments’ 
specialisation in garments and the rivalry that would be lost as a result of the 
proposed acquisition. The ACCC has also taken into account the distinct 
customer demand for garment laundering and the specialised nature of garment 
laundering, as distinct from linen laundering. The ACCC invites submissions 
from market participants about whether there is a broader commercial laundry 
services market.  
Geographic dimension 
52. 
The ACCC has explored whether the relevant geographic dimensions involve: 
 
state-based markets (New South Wales, South Australia, Queensland, 
Tasmania, Victoria and Western Australia); and/or 
 
multi-state markets.12 
53. 
The ACCC understands that certain customers use, and seek tender proposals 
from, garment laundry providers with facilities or depots close to their location. In 
addition, market feedback suggests that certain garments customers, particularly 
those in industrial sectors, may have operations outside of metropolitan regions 
which broadly supports state-based markets.  
54. 
There also appears to be a proportion of customers that contract for garments on 
a multi-state basis with a requirement or strong preference to contract with a 
single supplier. The ACCC understands this may be motivated by reducing 
contracting and administration costs, access to a single point of contact, 
                                                 
 
12 That is, for customers that seek a contract with a supplier that covers two or more states. 


Alsco – proposed acquisition of Spotless Laundries’ garments business 
 
Page 9 of 18 
operational consistency, and the potential to leverage volumes for pricing 
benefits. 
55. 
The ACCC is considering the impact of the proposed acquisition at the state-
based and multi-state levels, noting that the Parties are large suppliers, and the 
two largest commercial laundry suppliers for garments, in both broader and 
narrower geographic dimensions.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on:  
 
The extent to which laundry facilities, equipment and logistics capabilities are 
transferrable between linen and garment laundering. 
 
What specialised equipment and/or services are required for laundering garment or 
linen items. 
 
Whether switching to disposables would be a viable alternative to using outsourced 
garment laundry services and if so, in what circumstances. 
 
The products other than garments that you consider are relevant to this 
transaction.  
 
Whether segmentation by customer industry is appropriate in garment laundering, 
and why. 
 
If you are a commercial laundry services customer and have operations nationally 
or across multiple states, whether:  
o it is important to use a laundry supplier with a national presence, especially for 
garments, including the reasons why (or why not). 
o there are benefits to using a single supplier nationally or in multiple states – 
e.g. reducing transaction costs, more attractive volume-based pricing benefits 
or negotiating power. 
Issues of concern: reduced competition in garment 
laundry services 
56. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in the supply of commercial laundry services for 
garments in both state-based geographic markets in New South Wales13, South 
Australia, Queensland, Tasmania, Victoria and Western Australia, and multi-
state geographic markets. 
57. 
The proposed acquisition combines the two largest suppliers of garment laundry 
services in most states, and combines the only two large-scale garment laundry 
suppliers with a comprehensive multi-state presence. The ACCC considers that 
                                                 
 
13 The ACCC is currently considering the competitive dynamics in the Australian Capital Territory (ACT) as part of its 
analysis of New South Wales, and will continue to investigate whether there is a standalone geographic market in the 
ACT.  


Alsco – proposed acquisition of Spotless Laundries’ garments business 
 
Page 10 of 18 
the Parties are often each other’s closest garment laundry competitor, and 
appear to frequently compete with each other in high value tenders. The Parties 
provide a similar breadth of garment services at a comparable scale and 
capacity, and with a similar reputation. They also appear to service similar 
customers in both size and range of industries. 
58. 
The ACCC is concerned that removing this competitive tension is likely to result 
in Alsco possessing the ability to raise prices or reduce service levels to the 
merged entity’s customers. There appears to be a limited number of existing 
alternative suppliers of similar scale to the Parties and with the ability to 
constrain the Parties’ conduct. Further, given the need to incur significant sunk 
capital costs, barriers to entry appear to be moderate, although somewhat lower 
for existing suppliers of linen laundry services. Given the merged entity would 
possess high shares of garments customers in any relevant geographic market, 
the proposed acquisition is likely to result in Alsco possessing the ability to raise 
prices or reduce service levels to customers. 
High concentration in garment laundry services 
59. 
As stated in the ACCC’s Merger Guidelines, market concentration refers to the 
number and size of participants in the market. It provides a snapshot of market 
structure as well as an estimate of the size of the Parties, which can assist when 
considering the other merger factors.14 
60. 
Market feedback suggests that the garment laundry services industry has 
gradually consolidated over a period of time, in part, through acquisitions by both 
Alsco and Spotless.  
61. 
Alsco or Spotless Garments are the largest and only two commercial laundry 
suppliers for garments with a comprehensive multi-state presence, and the 
largest two suppliers in most states. Based on the ACCC’s estimates and market 
feedback, the merged entity is likely to have over 50% share of garments 
volumes in each overlapping market and in some cases well over a 50% share.  
Constraint from existing linen suppliers 
62. 
As discussed under Market Definition above, given the nature of the overlap and 
the closeness of rivalry between Alsco and Spotless Garments in garments, the 
ACCC is continuing to consider the extent to which other commercial laundry 
suppliers are likely to constrain the merged entity. This involves considering 
barriers to mobility and factors relevant to barriers to expansion.15 
63. 
In particular, the ACCC is examining whether commercial laundries that currently 
specialise in linen services can switch or move into garment laundering without 
incurring significant additional costs or taking significant risks. If these costs and 
risks appear likely to limit the willingness of linen suppliers to compete with the 
merged entity, such suppliers would offer little in the way of competitive 
discipline. The ACCC considers there are some distinct features of garment 
services compared to linen services which may limit the ability of existing linen 
                                                 
 
14 ACCC, Merger Guidelines 2008 (updated 2017), paragraphs 7.6 – 7.16. 
15 ACCC, Merger Guidelines 2008 (updated 2017), paragraph 7.42. 


Alsco – proposed acquisition of Spotless Laundries’ garments business 
 
Page 11 of 18 
suppliers to effectively constrain the merged entity in respect of garments 
customers. Information received suggests the following: 
 
Some garment equipment appears specialised and different 
compared to linen. As noted in the SPL-Spotless SOI, front-end 
washing and drying equipment are largely transferrable between linen 
and garments and the costs of this equipment represent a relatively high 
share of the capital costs that a laundry supplying garment services 
needs to incur. However, the sorting and rail conveyance system, back-
end finishing and storage equipment used by large-scale efficient 
garment laundering operations are highly specialised, substantially 
different to linen, and can involve considerable sunk capital costs. While 
smaller garment laundries do not need to incur all of these costs, at this 
stage the ACCC considers that the incremental costs faced by linen 
laundries seeking to offer competitive garment services are large enough 
to limit the constraint from linen laundries on the merged entity.  
 
Distinct variations in operational processes between linen and 
garments. For large suppliers of garment services, operators typically 
hang garments individually on clothes hangers attached to a large rail 
conveyor system. This is distinctly different to linen suppliers where 
operators feed linen through an ironing line. In addition, many industrial 
customers assign garments to specific individuals to suit their role, size 
and name. This requires garment suppliers to undertake a more involved 
end-sorting process to track and deliver garments to specific lockers, 
which may involve purchasing technology such as RFID tags16 and 
tracking software. Conversely, linen is typically delivered to a customer’s 
drop-off area and can be distributed by the customer’s staff. Laundries 
may also require a dedicated sales team for garments customers distinct 
from linen customers. 
 
Outsourced garment values and volumes appear considerably 
smaller than outsourced linen. Market feedback suggests that 
outsourced linen laundry demand is considerably larger by volume and in 
value than outsourced garments demand (in part, due to a wider range of 
customers and industries requiring linen laundry services). This may also 
be due to some garments customers choosing the option for staff to 
launder their allocated garment(s) themselves (that is, the customer 
purchases the garments but does not arrange the laundering for its staff). 
Therefore, suppliers considering offering garment laundering services are 
likely to face greater difficulties in extracting the necessary scale benefits 
to compete profitably with larger suppliers than do suppliers seeking to 
offer linen services. This may explain the relatively small number of 
significant suppliers of garment laundry services. 
64. 
In market inquiries, linen laundries have expressed a reluctance to move into 
garment laundering. This may reflect the potential commercial risks involved in 
shifting to garment laundering in terms of:  
 
the time and cost involved in developing a specialisation (including the 
necessary expertise and salesforce as well as the equipment). Linen 
                                                 
 
16 Radio Frequency Identification. 


Alsco – proposed acquisition of Spotless Laundries’ garments business 
 
Page 12 of 18 
laundry suppliers would require a certain level of garment volumes to 
cover operating costs and recover their initial capital outlay;  
 
the already concentrated market and significant economies of scale 
enjoyed by the Parties; and 
 
generally short-term contracts and building a garments customer 
portfolio. 
65. 
At the same time, the ACCC’s investigation has indicated that some linen 
laundry suppliers process garments, and most (especially larger) garment 
laundry suppliers also launder linen. For example, Spotless Laundries, Alsco, 
and Sunshine process both linen and garments. Further: 
 
some of Spotless’ plants process both linen and garments at the same 
site, and only two of its plants process only garments; and 
 
except for its clean room,17 all of Alsco’s garment processing plants also 
launder linen and mats, although often in a different part of the facility.  
66. 
The ACCC is continuing to explore the applicable costs, ease and risks with 
which existing suppliers specialising in linen can reallocate capacity to garments, 
and how important it is for suppliers to invest in more costly garment-specific 
equipment or operational processes as their garment volumes rise. The ACCC is 
also continuing to examine whether the limited demand for outsourced garment 
services would deter linen suppliers from moving into garments in the event of a 
significant price increase or service degradation by the merged entity. If these 
barriers appear unlikely to limit the willingness of linen suppliers to compete with 
the merged entity, the ACCC may ultimately consider that the relevant product 
market is better characterised as being for commercial laundry services. 
Limited constraint from alternative suppliers  
67. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition would remove Alsco’s 
closest competitor in the already-concentrated garment laundry industry, 
particularly in relation to larger customers. It would also remove Alsco’s only 
large-scale multi-state competitor for garments customers.   
68. 
Market feedback suggests that there are a limited number of commercial laundry 
suppliers with a presence in more than one state. In addition to the Parties, 
these include SPL (national), Princes (Adelaide, Melbourne and Brisbane), and 
Sunfresh (Brisbane and Melbourne). 
69. 
However, SPL, Princes and Sunfresh do not currently provide any significant 
volumes of garment laundry services.  
70. 
Market feedback suggests that certain customers that require or strongly prefer a 
multi-state supplier would only consider the Parties as viable options. This is 
attributed to a variety of reasons, including no alternative suppliers that possess 
suitable capacity and delivery capabilities at a multi-state level, the reduction of 
administration costs, operational consistency, and the potential to leverage 
                                                 
 
17 A ‘clean room’ is an enclosed space where levels of pollutants such as dust and airborne particles are highly 
controlled. 


Alsco – proposed acquisition of Spotless Laundries’ garments business 
 
Page 13 of 18 
volumes for pricing benefits. These customers’ large operational footprints 
suggests that only Alsco and Spotless Garments possess the capacity, logistical 
reach and systems to meet the high demand requirements.  
71. 
The ACCC accepts that certain customers that currently contract on a multi-state 
basis would consider moving to single-state contracts if the Parties increased 
prices. Certain customers already use multiple suppliers across different states. 
In some instances, these customers have found Alsco and Spotless Garments 
are the only suppliers of sufficient scale.  
72. 
Alsco submits that there are a number of alternative suppliers to the Parties with 
a presence in specific states. However, market feedback suggests that there are 
limited alternative suppliers of similar scale to the Parties in the majority of state-
based markets. Therefore, larger customers – including those considered large 
when their volumes across multiple states are combined – may have little 
alternative but to contract with one of the Parties.   
73. 
In certain instances, customers may award the majority of volumes to either 
Alsco or Spotless Garments, with remote sites typically awarded to smaller local 
suppliers. This appears more common at certain industrial operations with sites 
outside major capitals than it is for hospitality customers. Some of these local 
suppliers may even provide garment services on a sub-contracting arrangement 
with the Parties. 
74. 
The ACCC’s investigation indicates that there are a number of state specific and 
local community suppliers of varying scale and constraint. Many local suppliers 
generally appear to have the capability to provide garment laundry services but 
on a substantially smaller scale to the Parties, and thereby lacking the ability to 
compete with the Parties on pricing and on service coverage beyond their local 
community (see ‘Constraint from smaller suppliers’ below). Further details 
include: 
 
New South Wales. Lawrence and Sunshine are well-known linen 
suppliers with a degree of garment capability. Market feedback suggests 
that for hospitality customers, Lazy Lakes focuses on regional NSW. The 
ACCC understands that the Government-owned laundry Capital Linen 
Services provides limited garment laundry services within Canberra and 
may be considered an alternative option by some customers. The ACCC 
is continuing to investigate the alternative options apart from Alsco and 
Spotless for larger industrial customers across New South Wales.    
 
South Australia. Market feedback indicates there are little to no 
alternatives to the Parties in South Australia, particularly for large 
customers. Smaller suppliers may lack the capacity and logistics 
capability to deliver garment services on a large scale. The ACCC’s 
preliminary view is that there may be potential concerns regarding the 
level of competitive tension within South Australia.    
 
Queensland. Market feedback suggests that Holy Cross may have 
suitable capacity and capability to meet certain hospitality and industrial 
customers’ needs, although not at a similar scale to the Parties. Other 
suppliers such as CLS focus more on customers outside Brisbane. In 
some instances, smaller laundry suppliers have entered into sub-
contractor arrangements with either of the Parties.   


Alsco – proposed acquisition of Spotless Laundries’ garments business 
 
Page 14 of 18 
 
Victoria. Park Avenue Laundry, Just Tea Towels and Gouge appear to 
have suitable capability in garment laundry services for both hospitality 
and industrial customers. Other suppliers, such as GEM Laundry, appear 
to provide localised services at a smaller scale to the Parties. The ACCC 
is continuing to explore the extent to which these suppliers possess a 
suitable capacity to constrain the Parties.  
 
Western Australia. CleanTex and Atlas appear to possess suitable 
garment servicing capability for industrial customers but may lack the 
necessary scale for larger volumes. Market feedback also suggests that 
Atlas may only provide laundering and not garments hire services. Other 
suppliers appear focused on smaller volumes and may not be as price 
competitive to the Parties. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that there may 
be potential concerns regarding the level of competitive tension within 
Western Australia.    
Constraint from smaller suppliers 
75. 
Market feedback suggests that smaller suppliers can be viable alternatives within 
a certain local region, more commonly a remote or rural location, for reasons that 
may include: 
 
garment volumes being smaller, reducing the need to achieve significant 
scale benefits to be economical; 
 
customer sites located in remote or regional areas where the Parties do 
not have a logistical presence. In some instances, the Parties may enter 
into sub-contracting arrangements with local suppliers to meet their 
customer’s contract; and 
 
the ability for smaller local suppliers to provide specialised customer 
service tailored within that community.  
76. 
The ACCC considers that these suppliers may struggle to compete against the 
Parties in locations other than local remote or rural regions, such as in the capital 
cities. There are certain characteristics that the larger and more established 
Alsco and Spotless Garments possess in each state that may provide a 
competitive advantage over smaller suppliers, particularly in relation to their 
ability to compete for larger customers with multiple sites or larger volume 
contracts. Established scale competitors typically possess:  
 
High laundering capacity: large laundering capacity reduces customer 
concentration risk as the supplier can diversify its customer base across 
multiple large contracts.  
 
Specialised equipment: processing large volumes justifies the capital 
investment into specialised equipment, such as garment steamers, 
sorting systems, storage, and rail conveyors, as well as the necessary 
workforce. This equipment reduces labour costs through more automated 
or efficient processing that helps reduce per-item operating costs, leading 
to the ability to quote lower prices to customers. Laundries processing 
smaller volumes are likely to have more basic or manual processes with 
limited scalability (e.g. using tumble driers rather than steam tunnels), 


Alsco – proposed acquisition of Spotless Laundries’ garments business 
 
Page 15 of 18 
likely resulting in a higher unit cost base and less ability to price 
competitively against larger suppliers.  
Suppliers of scale may also be better placed to offer a full service, 
including laundering items to a sterile level, RFID tagging technology for 
more efficient tracking, and a logistics system facilitating garment delivery 
to individual customer lockers. 
 
Greater funding capacity, including to purchase garments upfront: it 
is industry standard for suppliers to purchase large volumes of garments 
prior to delivering service. The larger the customer’s volume requirement, 
the higher the upfront spend needed for garment inventory which may 
create cash flow issues that smaller suppliers are less willing or capable 
to accept. Larger suppliers also receive more attractive wholesale rates 
by utilising their purchasing scale. 
77. 
While smaller suppliers may theoretically be able to provide the same 
commercial laundry service for garments, they may lack the Parties’ scale, 
capacity and funding, and may also be less willing to accept large customers due 
to customer concentration risk. As a consequence, the ACCC considers that 
smaller suppliers will not significantly constrain the merged entity from raising 
prices (or reducing service quality). 
Barriers to entry and expansion 
78. 
The ACCC is continuing to consider the scale of barriers to entry and expansion, 
and the effect of the proposed acquisition on these.  
79. 
There appear to be significant sunk capital costs (including the need for 
considerable plant space) required in setting up a brand new commercial laundry 
business. While small-scale entry within garment laundering may incur capital 
costs of a few million dollars (potentially less if second-hand equipment can be 
sourced), the cost of developing a plant that captures equivalent economies of 
scale to those generated by the target, Spotless Garments, is considerably 
higher.  
80. 
To ensure sufficient scale to both harness the majority of available plant cost 
efficiencies and be capable of competing for the highest-volume customers 
against Alsco and Spotless Garments, it seems necessary to enter with a size of 
plant well above the technical minimum. The efficient scale of entry appears to 
vary according to regional demand. 
81. 
The ACCC understands that the initial capital costs of a greenfield facility of a 
scale that would maximise plant cost efficiencies for a given regional market 
could be in excess of five million dollars, with a sizeable proportion of these 
costs unrecoverable or ‘sunk’ once incurred. This is in addition to the cashflow 
demands imposed by the need to purchase garment inventory upfront to meet 
large contracts, which can exceed a million dollars each for a range of high 
volume customers.  
82. 
To date, the ACCC has not received market feedback identifying any garment 
suppliers that have recently established from greenfield entry, or expanded 
interstate. This suggests that it may be risky to enter interstate without a prior 
commitment for customer volumes or by acquiring an existing provider. This 


Alsco – proposed acquisition of Spotless Laundries’ garments business 
 
Page 16 of 18 
contrasts with indications of interstate expansion by suppliers specialising in 
linen items.   
83. 
At the same time, winning contracts with new customers without having an 
existing facility in a particular area appears to be rare. Therefore, entering 
interstate on a greenfield basis often appears unattractive due to the 
combination of the sunk costs and commercial risks involved. 
Barriers to expansion  
84. 
Existing garment laundry suppliers within a particular area may feasibly expand 
throughput by increasing the number of hours its machines operate. However, 
there are limits to this due to higher labour costs. Alternatively, the supplier can 
install additional machines if there is available floor space, or upgrade to 
equipment with a higher throughput and/or more automation. Small suppliers are 
likely to expand only incrementally (as they gain new customers) such that it will 
take multiple years to grow their capacity.  
In-house laundering is not a viable alternative  
85. 
The ACCC accepts that there are customers who in-house their laundry service 
requirements rather than outsourcing. However, these appear to be for small 
sites or remote sites with limited volume requirements. Certain customers have 
also considered outsourcing in-house laundry operations.  
86. 
Overall, the ACCC understands that doing in-house garment laundry is generally 
not a feasible alternative to using an external laundry supplier. Customers 
appear to consider laundry services as a non-core operation with high operating 
costs, resulting in a general trend towards using external laundry suppliers.   
87. 
In-house laundry processes are primarily on a much smaller scale, with some 
sites operating in-house laundry services due to the limited number of 
employees at particular sites or remote location. Sites with small volumes are not 
the focus of the ACCC’s review as these sites are likely to have more alternative 
suppliers available to them, including small local suppliers. It appears that 
market participants generally consider outsourcing their garment laundry 
requirements when operations exceeded a certain size.  
88. 
The ACCC understands that certain customers may be more sensitive to price 
increases, and may offer employees an allowance to undertake their own 
laundry requirements. The ACCC is continuing to investigate the prevalence of 
customers providing an allowance to their employees.  
89. 
In contrast, certain industries appear more reliant on outsourced garment 
laundry services, such as food manufacturing, medical, or manufacturing 
involving hazardous materials, where regular audits are taken to ensure a level 
of sterility.  
90. 
For this customer segment, garments are typically required to be laundered to a 
certain hygiene standard which is difficult to achieve or guarantee under an in-
house arrangement, or if employees undertake their own garment laundering.  


Alsco – proposed acquisition of Spotless Laundries’ garments business 
 
Page 17 of 18 
Limited customer bargaining power  
91. 
The ACCC does not consider that even the Parties’ largest customers have 
sufficient bargaining power in purchasing garment laundering services to prevent 
the merged entity from raising its prices or lowering service quality. Even large 
garment laundry customers do not individually account for a particularly large 
share of the Parties’ total revenue, which is an important consideration for 
customers in negotiating more favourable terms.18 Such customers do not 
appear to have an existing alternative to the Parties on a multi-state basis. 
Further these companies mostly do not appear to see in-house laundries or 
sponsoring a new entrant to garment laundering as viable options. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to the 
reduction in competition for the supply of commercial laundry services for garments 
particularly, in the overlapping state-based markets or on a multi-state basis. In 
particular market participants may wish to comment on the following: 
For customers of commercial laundry services 
 
The extent to which Alsco and Spotless Garments compete with and constrain 
each other in each state and on a multi-state basis. 
 
Whether there are viable alternatives to Alsco and Spotless Garments for all or 
some areas and sizes of customer, including whether: 
o regional or smaller suppliers are viable alternatives to large or established 
suppliers like Alsco and Spotless Garments, and why; and 
o large or established suppliers have a competitive advantage over smaller 
suppliers, and why. 
 
The ease of switching between different laundry suppliers. 
 
Whether switching to on-premises laundries would be a viable alternative to using 
outsourced garment laundry services and if so, in what circumstances. 
 
Whether providing a laundry allowance to employees would be a sufficient 
alternative to outsourcing laundry services. 
 
Whether there are certain industries where hygiene standards or regulations 
realistically requires garment laundry needs to be outsourced.  
For commercial laundry suppliers 
 
The key reasons why suppliers may focus on linen or garments, and may even 
specialise on particular industry segments.  
 
The key reasons why linen focused suppliers may be hesitant to enter or further 
expand into garment services.  
                                                 
 
18 ACCC, Merger Guidelines 2008 (updated 2017), paragraph 7.50. 


Alsco – proposed acquisition of Spotless Laundries’ garments business 
 
Page 18 of 18 
 
The relevance of scale to a supplier’s competitiveness. 
 
Any differences in the type of equipment (and the costs of that equipment) or 
operational processes that differentiate between a small and large scale garment 
laundry supplier.  
 
Any barriers to entry or expansion, both generally as well as into new regions or 
type of item laundered (for example, from garments laundering to linen laundering 
and vice versa). 
 
The impact of COVID-19 on your laundry operations, and whether it is feasible to 
reallocate capacity to meet demand from garments customers. 
 
Market share estimates, in each state and nationally, for the supply of commercial 
garment laundering services. 
ACCC's future steps 
92. 
As noted above, the ACCC invites submissions from market participants on each 
of the issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that 
may be relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. Submissions should 
be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au by no later than 30 October 2020. 
93. 
The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
94. 
The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 17 December 2020. 
However the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment explaining the 
ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's public announcement. 
