 
Public Competition Assessment 
24 June 2009 
Vodafone Group plc and Hutchison 3G Australia Pty Limited - 
proposed merger of Australian mobile operations 
 
A  Introduction 
1. 
On 29 May 2009, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission 
(ACCC) announced its decision not to oppose the proposed merger of the 
Australian mobile operations of Vodafone Group plc and Hutchison 3G Australia 
Pty Limited (proposed merger). The ACCC was of the view that the proposed 
merger would not be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening 
competition in any relevant market in contravention of section 50 of the Trade 
Practices Act 1974 (the Act). 
2. 
The ACCC formed its view on the basis of the information provided by the 
merger parties and information arising from its market inquiries. This Public 
Competition Assessment outlines the basis on which the ACCC has reached its 
decision on the proposed merger, subject to confidentiality considerations. 
B 
Public competition assessment 
3. 
To provide an enhanced level of transparency and procedural fairness in its 
decision making process, the ACCC issues a Public Competition Assessment for 
all transaction proposals where: 
• a merger is opposed; 
• a merger is subject to enforceable undertakings; 
• the merger parties seek such disclosure; or 
• a merger is not opposed but raises important issues that the ACCC considers 
should be made public. 
4. 
This Public Competition Assessment has been issued because the proposed 
merger is considered to raise issues of interest to the public. 
5. 
By issuing Public Competition Assessments, the ACCC aims to provide the 
public with a better understanding of the ACCC's analysis of various markets and 


Vodafone and Hutchison - proposed merger of Australian mobile operations 
the associated merger and competition issues. It also alerts the public to the 
circumstances where the ACCC’s assessment of the competition conditions in 
particular markets is changing, or likely to change.  
6. 
Each Public Competition Assessment is specific to the particular transaction 
under review by the ACCC. While some transaction proposals may involve the 
same or related markets, it should not be assumed that the analysis and decision 
outlined in one Public Competition Assessment will be conclusive of the ACCC’s 
view in respect of other transaction proposals, as each matter will be considered 
on its own merits.  
7. 
Many of the ACCC’s decisions will involve consideration of both non-
confidential and confidential information provided by the merger parties and 
market participants. In order to maintain the confidentiality of particular 
information, Public Competition Assessments do not contain any confidential 
information or its sources. While the ACCC aims to provide an appropriately 
detailed explanation of the basis for the ACCC decision, where this is not 
possible, maintaining confidentiality will be the ACCC's paramount concern, and 
accordingly a Public Competition Assessment may not definitively explain all 
issues and the ACCC’s analysis of such issues. 
C 
The merger parties 
Vodafone 
8. 
Vodafone Australia Limited (Vodafone) is wholly owned by its parent company, 
Vodafone Group plc.  
9. 
Vodafone is a mobile network operator (MNO). Vodafone operates a 2G mobile 
network, which it claims to cover approximately 95% of the Australian 
population. Vodafone also operates a 3G network that it claims currently covers 
80% of the population. Vodafone has plans to expand its 3G network to 
ultimately reach 94% of the population.  
10. 
In metropolitan areas, Vodafone shares a radio access network (RAN) with 
Optus. The joint RAN covers around 60% of the population with approximately 
2,200 base stations. In regional and rural areas, Vodafone has its own RAN 
infrastructure. More detail on Vodafone’s 3G network capabilities are provided in 
Table 1. 
11. 
Vodafone has almost 4 million mobile customers, including over 100,000 mobile 
broadband (MBB) customers. There are currently 170 Vodafone branded stores 
throughout Australia. Vodafone also retails its products through non-branded 
retail sites. 
12. 
In the financial year ending 31 March 2008, Vodafone reported total revenue of 
$2.44 billion and a consolidated net profit of $107 million. 
-2- 


Vodafone and Hutchison - proposed merger of Australian mobile operations 
Hutchison 
13. 
Hutchison Whampoa Limited (HWL) is the Hong Kong-based parent company 
of the Australian mobile business Hutchison Telecommunications Australia 
Limited (HTAL). HTAL is an ASX-listed public company. It owns 100% of the 
shares in Hutchison 3G Australia Pty Ltd (H3GA). For the purposes of this 
Public Competition Assessment, Hutchison refers to HTAL and H3GA. 
14. 
Hutchison is an MNO and sells retail products under the ‘3’ brand.  
15. 
Through its roaming arrangement with Telstra, Hutchison provides access to 
2G services in areas where it does not have 3G coverage. Telstra claims this 
covers 96% of Australia’s population.  
16. 
Hutchison operates a 3G network in Sydney / Wollongong, Melbourne / Geelong, 
Brisbane / the Gold Coast, Adelaide, Canberra and Perth. Hutchison claims that 
its 3G network footprint currently covers around 57% of the Australian 
population. Further details on Hutchison’s network capabilities are in provided in 
Table 1. 
17. 
Hutchison shares its RAN with Telstra. The network is the 3GIS network. 3GIS 
covers around 57% of the population with approximately 2,700 base stations. 
18. 
Hutchison has over 2 million Australian mobile customers, including over 
260,000 MBB customers. There are currently 170 ‘3’ branded stores throughout 
Australia. Hutchison also retails its products through non-branded retail sites. 
19. 
In the financial year ending 31 December 2008, Hutchison reported revenue of 
$1.623 billion and a net loss of $163.1 million.  
D 
Other participants in the mobile telecommunications 
industry 
20. 
In addition to Vodafone and Hutchison, there are two other competing MNOs – 
Telstra and Optus.  There are also a number of other mobile service providers 
within the industry. 
Telstra 
21. 
Telstra is a fully integrated telecommunications provider of fixed-line, mobile 
and information services. Telstra currently provides mobile services to 
approximately 9.4 million customers, of which 4.4 million have access to 3G 
services. Telstra has its own 3G network —Next G — which it claims covers 
99% of the Australian population. Telstra also operates a comprehensive 2G 
network (which it claims covers 96% of the population) and shares a RAN with 
Hutchison (as discussed above). Details of Telstra’s network capabilities are 
provided in Table 1. 
22. 
In the financial year ending 30 June 2008, Telstra reported total sales revenue of 
$24.7 billion and retail mobile services revenue of $4.92 billion.  
-3- 


Vodafone and Hutchison - proposed merger of Australian mobile operations 
Optus 
23. 
Optus is the second largest MNO in Australia, behind Telstra, and also provides 
fixed line telecommunications and subscription television services. Optus 
currently provides mobile services to approximately 7.42 million customers, of 
which 2.16 million have access to 3G services. Optus claims that its 3G network 
(Yes G) reaches around 96% of the Australian population. More details on 
Optus’s 3G network capabilities are provided in Table 1. 
24. 
In the financial year ending 31 March 2008, Optus reported total sales revenue of 
$7.76 billion. In the half financial year ending 30 September 2008, Optus 
reported mobile services revenue of $1.96 billion. 
Summary of the four MNOs’ network capabilities 
25. 
Table 1 provides details on the four MNOs’ network capabilities. 
-4- 


Vodafone and Hutchison - proposed merger of Australian mobile operations 
Table 1 
Network capabilities of the four MNOs 
 
Telstra 
Optus 
Vodafone 
Hutchison 
Base stations 
 
 
 
Metro 
3000 (Next G) 
+ 2700 
(JV with Hutchison 
– 3GIS) 
2200 
(JV with Vodafone) 
2200 
(JV with Optus) 
2700 
(JV with Telstra – 
3GIS) 
Regional/rural 
4000 (Next G) 
2550 
1020 
— 
Coverage area 
 
 
 
 
% of population 
99% 
98% 
80% 
(94% under 
Project Xelerate) 
57% 
(96% via roaming 
on Telstra’s Next 
G) 
Completion date 
N/A 
End 2009 
End 2009 
N/A 
Speed 
 
 
 
 
Technology 
HSPA+ 
HSPA 
HSPA 
HSPA 
Advertised 
maximum 
(downlink) 
Up to 21 Mbps 
Up to 42 Mbps by 
end 2009 
Up to 7.2 Mbps 
Up to 28Mbps by 
late 2009 
Up to 42Mbps by 
mid 2010 
Up to 14.4 Mbps 
(Xelerate) 
Up to 3.6 Mbps 
Up to 7.2 Mbps 
proposed  
Average 
Up to 550kbps to 
8Mbps 
Up to 512kbps to 
1.5Mbps (with 
burst speeds up to 
3Mbps) 
Up to 500kbps to 
1.5Mbps 
Up to 600kbps to 
1.5Mbps 
Spectrum 
 
 
 
 
850MHz 
2 x 10 Metro 
2 x 15 Regional 
 
— 
— 
2 x 10 Metro 
2 x 7.5 Regional 
(not in use) 
900MHz 
2 x 8.3 Nationwide 
2 x 8.3 Nationwide 
2 x 8.3 
Nationwide 
— 
2100MHz 
2 x 12.75 Metro 
2 x 11.75 Regional 
2 x 12.5 Metro 
2 x 10 Regional 
2 x 12.5 Metro 
2 x 10 Regional 
2x15 Mel + Syd 
2x10 Adel, Bris + 
Perth 
Source: Publicly available data from company websites and analyst reports.  
 
Other providers of retail mobile telecommunications services 
26. 
Other mobile service providers, besides the four MNOs described above, include 
mobile virtual network operators (MVNOs) and resellers. MVNOs and resellers 
purchase wholesale services from Telstra, Optus or Vodafone and on-sell mobile 
services under their own brand. MVNOs also own a small amount of 
infrastructure allowing them to provide some support services.  
27. 
MVNOs and resellers compete to provide retail mobile telecommunication 
services to customers. Key MVNOs and mobile resellers are: Soul; Dodo; People 
Telecom; AAPT; Macquarie Telecom; Comtel and TransACT.  
-5- 


Vodafone and Hutchison - proposed merger of Australian mobile operations 
28. 
Virgin and Crazy John’s provide branded mobile products at the retail level. 
These two businesses are wholly-owned subsidiaries of Optus and Vodafone, 
respectively. 
E 
Background to the transaction  
29. 
The transaction will be a 50/50 merger of the Australian mobile telephony 
operations conducted by H3GA and Vodafone.  The transaction will be effected 
as follows: 
• Vodafone will become a wholly-owned subsidiary of H3GA; and 
• the wholly-owned subsidiaries of Vodafone Group plc which together hold all 
of the shares in Vodafone will be issued with a 50% shareholding interest in 
H3GA, with the remaining 50% to be held by Hutchison 3G Australia 
Holdings Pty Limited (H3GA Holdings), a direct wholly-owned subsidiary 
of HTAL. 
30. 
Effectively, the transaction involves transforming H3GA into a joint venture 
entity, to be renamed Vodafone Hutchison Australia Pty Limited (VHA), of 
which HTAL and Vodafone will have equal ownership of 50%.  
E 
ACCC review timeline  
31. 
The following Table outlines the timeline of key events in this matter. 
Date 
Event 
11-Feb-09 
04-Mar-09 
01-Apr-09 
14-Apr-09 
 
17-Apr-09 
04-May-09 
 
29-May-09 
ACCC commenced review under the Merger Review Process Guidelines. 
Closing date for submissions from interested parties. 
ACCC published a Statement of Issues outlining preliminary competition concerns. 
ACCC requested further information from the merger parties. ACCC timeline 
suspended. 
Closing date for submissions relating to Statement of Issues. 
ACCC received further information from the merger parties. ACCC timeline 
recommenced. 
ACCC announced it would not oppose the proposed merger. 
F 
Market inquiries  
32. 
The ACCC conducted extensive market inquiries with a range of interested 
parties, including competitors – MNOs and MVNOs, consumers, mobile phone 
retailers, input suppliers, industry bodies, Australian and international regulatory 
agencies and other interested parties. Submissions were sought in relation to the 
substantive competition issues.  
33. 
The ACCC also held discussions and requested information from the parent 
companies of the two merger parties regarding the likely future of Vodafone and 
Hutchison in Australia if the merger did not proceed.  
-6- 


Vodafone and Hutchison - proposed merger of Australian mobile operations 
34. 
Also, the ACCC extensively scrutinised internal documents obtained from the 
merger parties and their competitors. 
G 
Statement of Issues  
35. 
The ACCC published its Statement of Issues on 1 April 2009 identifying some 
preliminary concerns with respect to the proposed merger. The Statement of 
Issues is available on the ACCC’s website at: 
www.accc.gov.au/statementsofissues.  
H 
Industry background  
36. 
As at December 2008, the market penetration rate of mobile telephony 
subscriptions was 111.4% of the Australian population.  
37. 
Given the high level of penetration of mobile telephony services, in order to gain 
market share, MNOs, MVNOs and resellers must compete to attract subscribers 
from competitors. This has led to strong retail price-based competition. 
38. 
Mobile data, however, is only in the early stages of consumer take up. Industry 
analysts predict that consumer demand for mobile data — both on 3G handsets as 
well as MBB using a USB modem — will grow significantly over the next few 
years. Information provided to the ACCC in market inquiries included reference 
to a forecast of growth in the number of MBB users in Australia from 1.8 million 
in 2009 to more than 4 million in 2014.  On these estimates, subscriber growth 
over the five year period would be approximately 136%. 
39. 
With such large subscriber growth, mobile data is also expected to generate 
considerable revenue growth for mobile providers. It was put to the ACCC that, 
on the basis of the forecasts mentioned above, MBB would generate global 
revenues of $137 billion in 2014, representing growth of 450% from 2008. 
40. 
As MBB and other mobile data services become more popular with consumers, 
there will be increased network traffic on 3G networks. Australian industry 
estimates suggest that 3G data services will increase from occupying around 
1800–2000 terabytes of network traffic in 2008-09 to approximately 10,000 
terabytes in 2011-12, an increase of around 400% over the period.  
41. 
The projected growth in traffic on 3G networks — primarily from MBB, which is 
a ‘bandwidth hungry’ service, but also from Internet on your mobile (IOYM) — 
has already required and is expected to continue to require MNOs to make 
significant investments in their network capabilities. Essentially, investments are 
needed to alleviate network capacity constraints, which affect both the speed of 
data services and the quality of voice services on 3G networks. 
-7- 


Vodafone and Hutchison - proposed merger of Australian mobile operations 
I 
The ACCC’s merger assessment process – the ‘with and 
without’ test 
42. 
Section 50 of the Act prohibits a merger or acquisition if it would be likely to 
have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market.  
43. 
In assessing a merger pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC must consider 
the effects of the transaction by comparing the likely future state of competition if 
the transaction proceeds (the “with” or “factual” position) to the likely future 
state of competition if the transaction does not proceed (the “without” or 
“counterfactual” position). 
44. 
The ACCC therefore focuses on the foreseeable future when considering market 
definition and each of the merger factors to determine whether a substantial 
lessening of competition is likely to occur. 
45. 
In this matter, the ACCC found that the appropriate analytical timeframe for 
consideration of the proposed merger was within a range of three to five years.   
In taking this view, the ACCC recognised that MNOs tend to undertake careful 
planning with respect to network investments. Network investments are 
invariably made with a long-term timeframe in mind, given that a return on 
investment is typically not generated for several years after the investment is 
made.  
J 
Market definition  
46. 
Table 2 lists the relevant markets identified by the ACCC for the purposes of 
reviewing the proposed merger. 
47. 
As shown in Table 2, the ACCC did not define an acquisition market for 
radiofrequency spectrum for the purposes of its review of the proposed merger. 
The ACCC considered it was appropriate to characterise spectrum as an input in 
the relevant retail markets identified below.  The ACCC notes that the 
competitive analysis of the proposed merger is likely to be the same, irrespective 
of whether radiofrequency spectrum is treated as a separate market, or an input 
into the relevant retail market.  
-8- 


Vodafone and Hutchison - proposed merger of Australian mobile operations 
Table 2 
Market definitions adopted by the ACCC 
Product dimension 
Geographic dimension 
Wholesale markets 
Domestic transmission capacity 
services 
Distinct transmission routes including:  
• 
inter-capital transmission;  
• 
transmission other than inter-capital routes 
such as capital to regional routes; 
• 
inter-exchange local transmission; and 
• 
tail-end transmission 
3G mobile and Internet content 
National 
Mobile services for the purposes of 
resale to retail customers 
National 
Roaming services 
National and international 
Mobile terminating access service  
National 
Retail market 
Mobile telecommunications services 
(including mobile telephony and MBB) 
(the retail market) 
National 
 
Product dimension 
48. 
The ACCC found that there are two distinct types of mobile telecommunications 
services offered at the retail level – mobile telephony services and MBB.  Mobile 
telephony consists of the provision of voice, data and some Internet services over 
a wireless network to customers via handsets. Internet services – commonly 
known as IOYM – are available on a 3G handset. IOYM includes emails, Internet 
browsing and short TV or movie clips.  MBB consists of the provision of Internet 
services over a wireless network to customers via a USB modem or a dongle. 
From these appliances, customers can access most Internet services, with the 
exception of very high bandwidth applications, such as file and video sharing. 
49. 
The ACCC found that demand-side substitution between mobile telephony and 
MBB was limited, but likely to increase over time.  The ACCC found that there is 
a group of consumers wanting to use mobile Internet ‘on the go’ that may 
consider MBB to be substitutable for a 3G handset with IOYM (such as the 
Apple iPhone). While it was found that such demand-side substitutability was 
currently at the margin, it is likely to increase over time. 
50. 
The ACCC found that mobile telephony and MBB are likely to be supply-side 
substitutes. Operators of 3G networks in Australia supply mobile telephony and 
MBB services over predominantly the same infrastructure and market these 
services using predominantly the same distribution channels.  
-9- 


Vodafone and Hutchison - proposed merger of Australian mobile operations 
51. 
Accordingly, the ACCC found that on the basis of supply-side substitutability, 
and limited but increasing demand-side substitutability, the appropriate product 
market was a retail market for mobile telecommunications services, including 
both mobile telephony and MBB services.  
52. 
While the ACCC found there were some signs of fixed-to-mobile substitution 
developing in relation to telephony services, and an increased incidence of 
bundling, the ACCC considered that differences in price, functionality and 
accessibility were such that fixed telephony services should not be included in the 
market for mobile telecommunications services.  
53. 
The ACCC found that fixed broadband services provide limited substitutability to 
MBB services, primarily due to differences in functionality. The primary 
characteristic of MBB is the ability for a user to access data services independent 
of location, whereas fixed broadband does not provide mobility to a similar 
extent. The ACCC also observed significant differences in price between MBB 
and fixed broadband services. The ACCC therefore considered that fixed 
broadband should not be included in the retail market for mobile 
telecommunications services. 
54. 
The ACCC found that the predominant suppliers of retail mobile services were 
MNOs. There are a number of other competitors that re-sell the MNOs’ mobile 
telephony and MBB services at the retail level; however, market enquiries 
indicated that this competition is at the margin of the retail market. 
Geographic dimension 
55. 
The ACCC observed that many of the elements of competition between MNOs 
are national at the retail level. Retail services tend to be priced, marketed, 
advertised and distributed on a national basis. 
56. 
All four MNOs compete by providing retail services to customers on a basis that 
is broadly national, either through their own networks or through a combination 
of their own networks and roaming arrangements with other MNOs. While there 
are some differences in the quality and, for data, the costs of services provided to 
customers as a result of roaming onto a foreign network, the ACCC considers 
these services to be broadly substitutable with services provided to customers on 
a ‘home’ network. 
 
-10- 


Vodafone and Hutchison - proposed merger of Australian mobile operations 
K 
Impact of the proposed merger in the retail market — 
unilateral effects 
Market concentration 
57. 
The ACCC found that the proposed merger would lead to a significant increase in 
the level of concentration in the already highly concentrated retail market.  
58. 
Tables 3 and 4 provide the market shares, by subscribers1 and by revenue, for the 
two segments of the retail market — mobile telephony and MBB. As shown, 
Hutchison has attracted a relatively large share of the revenue flows over the 
second half of 2008 in both segments. 
Table 3  
Market shares – mobile telephony a
  
Subscribers 
(stock) 
(%) 
Subscribers 
(flow)  
(%) 
Retail 
revenues 
(stock)  
(%) 
Retail 
revenues 
(flow)  
(%) 
Vodafone 
16.8 
15.0 
16.0 
6.1 
Hutchison 
8.7 
19.5 
10.9 
18.4 
Telstra 
41.7 
31.7 
44.2 
43.8 
Optus 
32.8 
33.8 
28.8 
31.6 
 
Post-merger concentration measures 
HHI 
3465 
3338 
3507 
3517 
Δ in HHI 
293 
585 
349 
225 
a Stock measures are the shares of the number of subscribers and revenues 
b Flow measures are the share of the increase in the number of subscribers and revenues over the 
previous half – July 2008 to December 2008. 
Source: UBS, March 2009. 
 
Table 4  
Market shares – postpaid MBB a, b, c
 
Subscribers 
(stock) 
Subscribers 
(flow) 
Retail 
revenues 
(stock) 
Retail 
revenues 
(flow) 
Vodafone 
6.5 
4.7 
4.6 
8.1 
Hutchison 
17.0 
20.3 
9.1 
20.5 
Telstra 
52.1 
40.5 
73.2 
30.6 
Optus 
24.4 
34.5 
13.1 
40.8 
Post-merger concentration measures 
HHI 
3862 
3455 
5633 
3418 
                                                 
1 These figures differ slightly from those published in the ACCC’s report Telecommunications Competitive 
Safeguards for 2007-2008, which reported market shares for that financial year (as at June 2008); whereas the 
subscriber ‘stock’ market shares presented in this Public Competition Assessment are based on estimates as at 
December 2008. 
-11- 


Vodafone and Hutchison - proposed merger of Australian mobile operations 
 
Subscribers 
Subscribers 
Retail 
Retail 
(stock) 
(flow) 
revenues 
revenues 
(stock) 
(flow) 
Δ in HHI 
221 
190 
84 
332 
a Market shares are derived from a number of sources. The ACCC considers these figures to be the best 
estimates available for the purposes of this assessment. b Shares for prepaid MBB are not included. 
c Flow measures are over the previous half – July 2008 to December 2008. 
 
Vigorous and effective competitors 
Hutchison 
59. 
The ACCC’s inquiries revealed that Hutchison has played an important role in 
driving price competition and innovation in the retail market.  
60. 
Evidence provided to the ACCC illustrated that Hutchison has often led prices for 
postpaid mobile telephony plans where the monthly spend is $49 or less. 
Hutchison has also priced aggressively in prepaid and postpaid MBB services 
since it commenced supplying these services.  
61. 
Hutchison’s price leading behaviour was found to have elicited competitive 
responses from all three of its major competitors. Information considered in the 
course of the investigation showed that the other three MNOs often respond to 
Hutchison’s pricing changes, even when those changes had not yet had a 
discernible impact on customer churn.  Further, it was found that Hutchison had 
been successfully attracting new customers as well as retaining its existing 
customers.  
62. 
Amongst competitors and within the industry more generally, Hutchison was  
seen as an innovator. In Australia, Hutchison was the first to market with cap 
plans, Skype on mobiles and prepaid MBB, among other products and services.  
63. 
On the basis of the evidence available, the ACCC found that Hutchison has been 
a vigorous and effective competitor in the retail market.  
Would Hutchison continue to compete aggressively in the foreseeable future? 
64. 
While it was found that Hutchison has been a vigorous and effective competitor 
to date, evidence analysed by the ACCC indicated that Hutchison was likely to be 
a less competitive force in the retail market in the foreseeable future. 
65. 
The ACCC found that in the foreseeable future Hutchison was unlikely to 
continue to be a vigorous and effective competitor in the MBB segment of the 
market. It was found that Hutchison has network capacity constraints, and would 
need to undertake substantial investments in network capacity in order to 
continue to compete aggressively for MBB customers.  
-12- 


Vodafone and Hutchison - proposed merger of Australian mobile operations 
66. 
Having examined the evidence provided by Hutchison and HWL, the ACCC 
considered that the significant investments needed to fully overcome Hutchison’s 
network capacity constraints were not likely to be made. The ACCC concluded 
that without this network expansion, Hutchison would suffer a significant 
competitive disadvantage — in particular, the speed of its MBB and other data 
services would slow down and the quality of its voice services would degrade. It 
was found that such a disadvantage was likely to increase over time as 
Hutchison’s competitors are likely to continue to make the necessary investments 
in their networks. This may lead to a continued widening of the network 
capability ‘quality gap’ (see Table 1). 
67. 
In relation to mobile telephony services, the ACCC found that, absent the merger, 
it was likely that Hutchison may continue as a price leader for some of its mobile 
telephony products, but was likely to implement some small price increases in 
light of the constraints related to the current economic climate.  Further, it was 
considered that its inability to undertake network expansion was likely to impact 
on its ability to continue to compete strongly in relation to mobile telephony 
services.  In particular, it would not have the advantages of revenue support from 
the growing MBB segment of the market, or the economies of jointly providing 
mobile telephony and MBB services.   
Vodafone as a vigorous and effective competitor  
68. 
It was found that Vodafone has also been an important competitor in the retail 
market, but, like Hutchison was not likely to be such a competitive force in the 
future in mobile telephony and MBB.  The ACCC’s view on this issue was 
informed by a large amount of evidence obtained in the course of its enquiries. 
69. 
The ACCC’s enquiries indicated that Vodafone, in competing with Hutchison to 
attract customers away from Telstra and Optus, has provided a significant amount 
of competitive tension in the retail market.  
70. 
However, it was found that the competitive tension provided by Vodafone, 
particularly in the MBB segment of the market would be limited in the 
foreseeable future. 
71. 
In outer metropolitan areas and beyond, it was found that Vodafone would be 
likely to have effectively ceased to compete for MBB customers in the absence of 
the merger. Network capacity upgrades would not have been made, and products 
would have been removed from Vodafone’s retail stores.  
72. 
In metropolitan areas — areas that cover around 60% of the Australian 
population — Vodafone would continue to compete for MBB customers. 
However, the quality of Vodafone’s MBB products was likely to decrease. 
-13- 


Vodafone and Hutchison - proposed merger of Australian mobile operations 
73. 
Like Hutchison, it was found that Vodafone was likely to face significant 
budgetary and network capacity constraints. Within these confines, it is highly 
unlikely that Vodafone would have continued to make the investments necessary 
to remain competitive in MBB across Australia in the absence of the merger. 
Vodafone provided evidence that its inability to invest sufficiently to bridge the 
‘quality gap’ would leave it in an increasingly less competitive position compared 
with Telstra and Optus (see Table 1) who have each made substantial investments 
in their respective networks. 
Competition analysis 
Mobile telephony 
74. 
In the mobile telephony segment of the retail market, the ACCC found that the 
proposed merger would result in the aggregation of two of the four competitors 
where: 
• concentration will increase in an already highly concentrated segment; 
 
• there is no prospect of entry by an MNO on the scale and scope necessary to 
constrain existing MNOs; 
 
• MVNOs and resellers would not pose a strong competitive constraint on 
existing MNOs;  
 
• The ACCC considered that Optus and Telstra may compete more aggressively 
for Vodafone and Hutchison customers during a period of integration after the 
merger, but that this increase in competition was likely to be temporary;  
 
• the degree of competition driven by the imperative for Hutchison and Vodafone 
to build scale will be reduced; however, the increased scale from the proposed 
merger would be likely to provide the merged entity with a platform from which 
to undertake network investment that will enable more effective competition 
against Telstra and Optus in mobile telephony and MBB in the future.  
 
75. 
In relation to the final point above, the ACCC’s enquiries revealed that it is 
increasingly important for MNOs to have a strong offering in both voice and data 
services (including MBB services) in order to be an effective competitor in either 
segment. The ACCC’s findings regarding the merger parties’ respective network 
capacities and MBB offerings, discussed in the previous sections and below, led 
the ACCC to conclude that the proposed merger was not likely to substantially 
lessen competition in the mobile telephony segment of the retail market. 
MBB 
76. 
The ACCC considered that the proposed merger is unlikely to lead to a 
substantial lessening of competition in the MBB segment of the retail market.  
-14- 


Vodafone and Hutchison - proposed merger of Australian mobile operations 
77. 
The ACCC examined a large amount of evidence which indicated that Hutchison 
and Vodafone, on an individual basis, would not be likely to continue to make the 
investments in their networks that would be necessary for the delivery of high-
speed MBB services. Without the merger, it was likely that Hutchison and 
Vodafone would become increasingly weak competitors over time relative to 
Telstra and Optus. 
78. 
With the merger, the merged entity has an increased incentive to make the 
investments in its network given it will have the ability to spread its fixed costs 
over a larger subscriber base. Indeed, for this segment, the ACCC considered that 
the proposed merger may have a pro-competitive effect over the longer term. 
The link between mobile telephony and MBB 
79. 
The ACCC considered evidence which suggested that, in the near future, any 
distinction between competition for the supply of mobile telephony and the 
supply of MBB would be increasingly blurred.  
80. 
Evidence provided to the ACCC indicated that a competitor that does not have 
the capacity to provide a strong mobile telephony together with a strong MBB 
product was unlikely to be able to compete vigorously in either segment of the 
market because: 
• revenue growth for voice has tapered off and the main source of future 
revenue growth is MBB and related data services;  
 
• a competitor that only had the capacity to compete strongly in one segment of 
the market would not be able to take advantage of the economies of jointly 
supplying voice and data services; and 
 
• there is likely to be further convergence between voice and data supplied on 
newer 3G handsets as well as increased bundling of MBB and 3G voice and 
data. 
 
81. 
In light of these issues, without the merger, it is likely that Vodafone and 
Hutchison would have gradually suffered competitively in both segments of the 
retail market as the ‘quality gap’ between Telstra and Optus, two integrated 
players, continued to widen.  
Public pricing commitment 
82. 
On 25 May 2009 Hutchison and Vodafone issued a joint public ‘pricing 
commitment’ in which it indicated to its customers that following the merger: 
• Customers would receive the same or better value deals; 
 
• All new and existing contract customers of Hutchison and Vodafone would 
enjoy the same value from their mobile voice and data plans for a period of 2 
years;  
 
-15- 


Vodafone and Hutchison - proposed merger of Australian mobile operations 
• Each company’s respective approach to pricing, which allow customers to 
acquire handsets for $0 on 24 month contract, would be retained post-merger; 
and 
 
• No plan would be withdrawn from the market for the next 2 years whilst new 
plans would also be offered  
 
83. 
The ‘pricing commitment’ had no bearing on the ACCC’s decision.  
L 
Impact of the proposed merger in the retail market — 
coordinated effects 
84. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view in the Statement of Issues was that the proposed 
merger was likely to lead to coordinated effects in the retail market. This view 
was based on an understanding that each MNO can readily observe its rivals’ 
prices.  
85. 
There is a large range of price points within a plan or cap, such as national call 
rates, flagfall, voice mail access and overage rates2, as well as underlying prices, 
such as handset subsidies and content packs. Many, although not all of these 
product offerings remain transparent. 
86. 
Further investigation in relation to this issue revealed that the four MNOs keep a 
close watch on each other's product launches and pricing behaviour. However, as 
noted above, there are a large number of these products and associated offerings, 
and the value to the MNOs of offering them often depends on the mix of 
customers held and targeted by each competitor. The ACCC considered that 
although many products and prices are visible between competitors, these may be 
difficult to coordinate. 
87. 
The ACCC considered that the most pertinent issue was the potential for the 
proposed merger to lead to unilateral effects, as discussed throughout this 
document. 
M Impact of the proposed merger on other relevant markets 
- wholesale markets 
88. 
The ACCC is of the view that the proposed merger is unlikely to substantially 
lessen competition in any of the five wholesale markets identified in Table 2 as 
relevant markets for the purpose of this matter. The ACCC considered that 
Telstra and Optus are likely to continue to impose a competitive constraint on the 
merged entity in these markets post-merger. 
                                                 
2 
Overage typically refers to the consumption of minutes outside the cap limit. 
-16- 


Vodafone and Hutchison - proposed merger of Australian mobile operations 
N Spectrum aggregation 
89. 
As shown in Table 1, Hutchison currently owns spectrum in the 850MHz, 
1800MHz and 2100MHz frequency bands across various metropolitan and 
regional areas. Vodafone currently owns spectrum in the 900MHz, 1800MHz and 
2100MHz frequency bands in metropolitan, regional and rural regions.  
90. 
The ACCC considered whether the aggregation of spectrum would increase the 
ability and incentive of the merged entity to ‘hoard’ unused spectrum with the 
effect of raising barriers to expansion for existing MNOs. 
91. 
The ACCC concluded that with or without the proposed merger, Hutchison and 
Vodafone are unlikely to sell their spectrum even if the spectrum remains unused. 
The ACCC considered that with the proposed merger, the merged entity has an 
increased incentive to use previously unused spectrum to increase its network 
capacity.  
92. 
On this basis, the ACCC took the view that the spectrum aggregation is unlikely 
to lead to a substantial lessening of competition in any market. 
93. 
The ACCC also understands that the deployment of next generation mobile 
telecommunications technologies – long term evolution (LTE) – requires MNOs 
to have a 20MHz lot of contiguous spectrum to fully 'unlock' the benefits of the 
technology. Given this, post-merger, it was found that all three MNOs would 
need to secure more spectrum to rollout a new LTE network.  
O Conclusion 
94. 
On the basis of the above, the ACCC concluded that the proposed merger would 
not have the effect, or be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening 
competition in any market. 
 
-17- 
