 
 
 
 
 
1 April 2009 
 
Statement of Issues — Vodafone and Hutchison –
proposed merger of Australian mobile operations 
1. 
Outlined below is the Statement of Issues released by the Australian Competition 
and Consumer Commission (ACCC) in relation to the proposed merger of 
Vodafone’s and Hutchison’s Australian mobile operations (proposed merger).  
2. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well 
as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
3. 
In line with the ACCC’s Merger Review Process Guidelines (available on the 
ACCC’s website at www.accc.gov.au) the ACCC has established a secondary 
timeline for further consideration of the issues. The ACCC anticipates completing 
further market inquiries by 17 April 2009 and anticipates making a final decision 
on 6 May 2009. However, the anticipated timeline can change in line with the 
Merger Review Process Guidelines. To keep abreast of possible changes in 
relation to timing and to find relevant documents, market participants should visit 
the Mergers Register on the ACCC’s website at 
www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
4. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 
Background 
5. 
On 11 February 2009, the ACCC commenced its informal review of the proposed 
merger of Vodafone’s and Hutchison’s Australian mobile operations. 


Vodafone Group plc and Hutchison 3G Australia Pty Ltd – proposed merger of Australian mobile operations 
 
2
The parties 
 
Vodafone 
6. 
Vodafone Group plc is the parent company of Vodafone International Holdings 
BV, which in turn holds a majority interest in Vodafone Australia Limited.  
7. 
Vodafone Group plc is a leading telecommunications company serving 289 
million registered customers through its operations in Africa, North Central 
America, South American, Asia, Europe and Oceania. 
8. 
For the purposes of this Statement of Issues, Vodafone refers to the Australian 
mobile business. Vodafone operates a 2G mobile network in Australia, which is 
claimed to cover approximately 95% of the Australian population. Vodafone also 
operates a 3G network that currently covers the metropolitan areas of Sydney, 
Central Coast, Melbourne, Canberra, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane and the Gold 
Coast and Sunshine Coast. Vodafone has announced plans to expand its 3G 
network to ultimately reach 95% of the population. 
9. 
In addition to its own network, Vodafone shares 3G mobile radio access network 
(RAN) infrastructure in metropolitan areas with Optus.  
10. 
Vodafone has almost 4 million Australian customers, including over 100,000 
mobile broadband (MBB) customers. There are currently 170 Vodafone branded 
stores throughout Australia. Vodafone also retails its products through 
non-branded retail sites. 
11. 
In the financial year ending 31 March 2008, Vodafone reported total revenue of 
$2.44 billion and a consolidated net profit of $107 million. 
Hutchison 
12. 
The Hutchison Group includes three companies: Hutchison Whampoa Limited 
(HW), Hutchison Telecommunications (Australia) Limited (HTAL) and 
Hutchison 3G Australia Pty Ltd (H3GA). HW is the parent company of the 
Australian mobile business (comprising HTAL and H3GA).   
13. 
HTAL has been an ASX-listed public company since 1999. H3GA is a 
wholly-owned subsidiary of HTAL. For the purposes of this Statement of Issues, 
Hutchison refers to the Australian mobile business. 
14. 
Hutchison operates a mobile telecommunications network in Australia under the 
‘3’ brand.  
15. 
Through its roaming arrangement with Telstra, Hutchison provides access to 
2G services in areas which it claims covers 96% of Australia’s population.  
16. 
Hutchison operates a 3G network in Sydney / Wollongong, Melbourne / Geelong, 
Brisbane / the Gold Coast, Adelaide, Canberra and Perth. Hutchison claims that 
its 3G network footprint currently covers around 57% of the Australian 
population.  


Vodafone Group plc and Hutchison 3G Australia Pty Ltd – proposed merger of Australian mobile operations 
 
3
17. 
In addition to its own network, Hutchison shares 3G mobile RAN infrastructure 
with Telstra under a joint venture arrangement.  
18. 
Hutchison has over 2 million Australian customers, including over 260,000 MBB 
customers. There are currently 170 ‘3’ branded stores throughout Australia. 
Hutchison also retails its products through non-branded retail sites. 
19. 
In the financial year ending 31 December 2008, Hutchison reported revenue of 
$1.623 billion but also reported a net loss of $163.1 million.  
Other industry participants 
Telstra 
20. 
Telstra is a fully integrated telecommunications provider of fixed-line, mobile 
and information services. Telstra currently provides mobile services to 
approximately 9.4 million customers, of which 4.4 million have access to 3G 
services. Telstra has its own 3G network —Next G — which it claims covers 
99% of the Australian population. Telstra also operates a comprehensive 2G 
network (which is claimed to cover 96% of the population) and shares 3G mobile 
RAN infrastructure with Hutchison (as discussed above). 
21. 
In the financial year ending 30 June 2008, Telstra reported total sales revenue of 
$24.7 billion and retail mobile services revenue of $4.92 billion.  
Optus 
22. 
Optus is the second largest provider of mobile network services in Australia, 
behind Telstra, and also provides fixed line telecommunications and subscription 
television services. Optus currently provides mobile services to approximately 
7.42 million customers, of which 2.16 million have access to 3G services. Optus 
claims that its 3G network (Yes G) reaches around 96% of the Australian 
population. 
23. 
In the financial year ending 31 March 2008, Optus reported total sales revenue of 
$7.76 billion. In the half financial year ending 30 September 2008, Optus 
reported mobile services revenue of $1.96 billion. 
Other mobile service providers  
24. 
Other mobile service providers, besides the mobile network operators (MNOs) 
described above, include mobile virtual network operators (MVNOs) and 
resellers.  MVNOs and resellers purchase wholesale services from Telstra, Optus 
or Vodafone and on-sell mobile services under their own brand. MVNOs also 
own a small amount of infrastructure allowing them to provide some support 
services.  
25. 
MVNOs and resellers compete to provide retail mobile telecommunication 
services to subscribers. Key MVNOs and mobile resellers are: Soul; Dodo; 
People Telecom; AAPT; Macquarie Telecom; Comtel and TransACT.  


Vodafone Group plc and Hutchison 3G Australia Pty Ltd – proposed merger of Australian mobile operations 
 
4
26. 
Virgin and Crazy John’s also provide mobile products at the retail level. These 
businesses are wholly owned subsidiaries of Optus and Vodafone, respectively. 
Industry background 
Mobile network evolution 
27. 
Mobile network technology has rapidly evolved from ‘first generation’ (1G) 
mobile phone systems based on cellular networks in the 1980s to ‘second 
generation’ (2G) mobile phone systems such as Global System for Mobile 
Communication (GSM) and Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA) in the 
1990s. 2G mobile network technology allows for voice, data and text services. 
These services are sometimes called ‘narrowband’ services. 
28. 
Evolution from 2G systems occurred with the introduction of General Packet 
Radio Service (GPRS) with cellular services combined with GSM or CDMA 
technologies (2.5G). Essentially, 2.5G mobile network technology refers to a 2G 
system that has implemented a packet switched domain in addition to the circuit 
switched domain. A 2.5G network provides faster services than a 2G network but 
uses the same infrastructure. 
29. 
‘Third generation’ (3G) mobile network technology enables Internet, voice, and 
multimedia services. These services are sometimes called ‘wideband’ services. 
3G networks are high capacity digital networks that combine voice with 
high-speed internet-based services. 3G networks enable users to access a wide 
range of services, beyond the voice centric 2G and 2.5G networks. Universal 
Mobile Telecommunications System (UMTS), including High Speed Packet 
Access (HSPA) technologies and Wideband Code Division Multiple Access 
(W-CDMA) are types of 3G technologies. 
30. 
‘Fourth generation’ (4G) mobile network technology or ‘long term evolution’ is 
expected to allow a comprehensive IP solution where voice, data and streamed 
multimedia can be given to users on an “anytime, anywhere” basis. 4G networks 
are expected to have significantly higher data rates than previous generations. In 
Australia, 4G technologies are not expected to come online for at least two years. 
Industry trends 
31. 
The Australian mobile market is mature. As at December 2008, the market 
penetration rate for mobile subscriptions was 111.4% of the Australian 
population and the 3G penetration rate was 51.6%. 
32. 
Given the high level of penetration for mobile services, in order to gain market 
share, MNOs must compete to attract subscribers from competitors. This has led 
to strong retail price-based competition. 
33. 
Industry analysts predict that data services will be the ‘main game’ in the mobile 
industry space. Consumer demand for data services – both 3G “Internet on your 
Mobile” (IOYM) and MBB – over mobile networks has been significant and is 
expected to continue. While 3G IOYM and MBB data revenues have grown 
strongly in recent years, revenues from voice services remain the dominant 


Vodafone Group plc and Hutchison 3G Australia Pty Ltd – proposed merger of Australian mobile operations 
 
5
revenue stream for mobile service providers. Both voice and data revenue streams 
will continue to grow over time, however data is likely to grow at a faster rate. 
Market inquiries 
34. 
On 19 February 2009, the ACCC commenced market inquiries regarding the 
proposed merger. A range of interested parties provided responses, including 
competitors – MNOs and MVNOs, consumers, mobile phone retailers, industry 
associations and interested third parties. 
35. 
The ACCC also met with the Australian Communications and Media Authority 
(ACMA) to discuss technical issues about radiofrequency spectrum. 
Areas of overlap and market definition 
36. 
The following table lists the areas of overlap and potential relevant markets 
identified by the ACCC for the purposes of reviewing the proposed merger: 
Retail and wholesale markets 
Product dimension 
Geographic dimension 
Wholesale markets 
Domestic transmission capacity 
services (DTCS) 
Distinct transmission routes including:  
• 
inter-capital transmission;  
• 
transmission other than inter-capital routes 
such as capital to regional routes; 
• 
inter-exchange local transmission; and 
• 
tail-end transmission 
3G mobile and Internet content 
National 
Mobile services for the purposes of 
resale to retail customers 
National 
Roaming services 
National / International 
Domestic mobile terminating access 
service (MTAS) 
National 
Retail market 
Mobile telecommunications services 
(including mobile telephony and mobile 
broadband) 
National 
37. 
Issues arose during the course of the ACCC’s inquiries regarding the product 
dimension for retail mobile telecommunications services and radiofrequency 
spectrum. The ACCC also considered the appropriate geographic dimension for 
retail mobile telecommunications services. 
 


Vodafone Group plc and Hutchison 3G Australia Pty Ltd – proposed merger of Australian mobile operations 
 
6
Product dimension 
Retail mobile telecommunications services 
38. 
On the basis of information obtained to date, the ACCC considers that a national 
market exists for the supply of retail mobile telecommunications services to 
consumers by MNOs, MVNOs and resellers. The market would comprise two 
key product segments — retail mobile telephony services and retail MBB 
services. 
39. 
While there are signs of increased fixed-to-mobile substitution and an increased 
incidence of bundling between fixed and mobile services, the ACCC considers 
that differences in price, functionality and accessibility are such that retail mobile 
telecommunications services — including mobile telephony and MBB — are 
appropriately treated as a separate product market to fixed telecommunications 
services.  
40. 
In respect of the MBB product segment within the retail mobile 
telecommunications market, the ACCC considers that, while wireless broadband 
may provide some constraint on fixed broadband services, this is likely to be to a 
limited extent on the basis of significant differences in price. The ACCC 
therefore considers that MBB and fixed broadband services are likely to be in 
separate markets. 
Spectrum 
41. 
The ACCC considered whether it was appropriate to consider an acquisition 
market for spectrum as a relevant market for the purposes of this merger review. 
In light of the fact that there is not likely to be any new spectrum allocated by the 
ACMA nor is there likely to be any “freeing up” of existing allocations in the 
next two to three years ‘with or without the merger’, the ACCC considered it was 
more appropriate to characterise spectrum as an ‘input’ in the retail market for the 
purposes of this matter. 
Geographic dimension 
42. 
For some consumers, the relative abilities of the four MNOs to independently 
provide network coverage outside of metropolitan areas may limit their choice of 
mobile services provider. Currently, Hutchison, and to a lesser extent, Vodafone, 
rely on roaming services to provide coverage outside of metropolitan areas. That 
is, Hutchison and Vodafone customers that travel outside of the area covered by 
their ‘home network’ can access mobile services via Telstra’s or Optus’ 
networks. 
43. 
While there are some differences in the quality of services provided to customers 
that are roaming in non-metropolitan areas, the ACCC considers that the supply 
of retail mobile telecommunications services on this basis is broadly substitutable 
to the services offered by Telstra and Optus on their home networks in these 
areas. Therefore, the ACCC considers that the relevant geographic dimension of 
competition in the markets for the supply retail mobile services is likely to be 
national in nature.  


Vodafone Group plc and Hutchison 3G Australia Pty Ltd – proposed merger of Australian mobile operations 
 
7
The ACCC invites market participants to comment on market definition. 
The ACCC welcomes any comments from market participants regarding the proposed 
market definitions, including whether or not retail mobile telephony services and retail 
MBB services are in the same or separate product markets. The ACCC is also 
interested in whether there should be a distinction between customer or network type. 
The ACCC welcomes any comments as to geographic dimension, including whether 
there are any significant elements of local competition between MNOs. 
Statement of issues 
44. 
For the purposes of this Statement of Issues, the issues in this matter are divided 
into two categories, ‘issues of concern’ and ‘issues unlikely to pose concerns’. 
Issues of concern 
45. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed merger raises competition 
concerns in the short to medium term within the mobile telephony and MBB 
segments of the national market for the supply of retail mobile 
telecommunications services. 
46. 
The ACCC notes the proposed merger would result in increased concentration 
from four to three MNOs in a market which is already highly concentrated, and 
that the prospect for a new entrant MNO of the scale and scope necessary to 
provide a competitive constraint on existing MNOs is practically non-existent. 
The ACCC also considers that MVNOs and resellers are unlikely to constrain the 
merged entity, particularly as they rely on wholesale acquisition of mobile 
services from MNOs. 
Removal of Hutchison as a vigorous and effective competitor 
47. 
The ACCC is concerned that the removal of Hutchison as a vigorous and 
effective competitor will lead to increased prices for customers in the retail 
mobile telephony and MBB services segments in the retail mobile 
telecommunications services market. 
48. 
The ACCC understands that Hutchison is consistently attracting new subscribers 
and has been gradually increasing its subscriber share and revenue share over 
time. Hutchison has competed aggressively for market share in the national 
market for supply of retail mobile telecommunications services, consistently 
attracting a relatively high proportion of customers from the other three MNOs.  
49. 
The ACCC is of the view that Hutchison and Vodafone are each other’s closest 
competitors, focusing on price-sensitive customers in metropolitan areas. 
Hutchison is a strong competitor in the supply of lower-priced postpaid mobile 
products, while Vodafone is a strong competitor in the supply of prepaid mobile 
products.  The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed merger may 
increase the potential for Vodafone to exercise unilateral market power. 


Vodafone Group plc and Hutchison 3G Australia Pty Ltd – proposed merger of Australian mobile operations 
 
8
Increased potential for coordinated effects 
50. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed merger may also increase the 
potential for coordinated effects in the mobile telephony and MBB segments of 
the retail mobile telecommunications market. In reaching this preliminary view, 
the ACCC notes that: 
 
the four MNOs have a combined market share of almost 95% in the market 
for the supply of retail mobile telecommunications services; 
 
prices are easily observed at the retail level;  
 
products are relatively homogeneous;  
 
demand for retail mobile telephony is relatively stable and demand for retail 
MBB is growing;  
 
there is a high frequency of interaction between MNOs; and  
 
barriers to entry as an MNO are very high, such that supra-competitive 
pricing is unlikely to induce new entry. 
51. 
The ACCC is also considering the extent to which the merged entity would have 
an increased ability to observe its competitors’ intentions for network investment 
as a result of its being party, at least initially, to the two network sharing joint 
venture (JV) arrangements (the Telstra and Hutchison JV and the Optus and 
Vodafone JV).  
52. 
As noted above, the ACCC considers Hutchison to be a vigorous and effective 
competitor in the retail telecommunications services market. The ACCC is 
concerned that the removal of Hutchison as an independent competitor in the 
market may increase the potential for coordinated effects amongst remaining 
market participants. 


Vodafone Group plc and Hutchison 3G Australia Pty Ltd – proposed merger of Australian mobile operations 
 
9
The ACCC invites market participants to comment on the possible unilateral and 
coordinated effects of the proposed merger. 
Please provide comments on the following and preferably provide further information 
and specific examples in relation to: 
- 
Whether Vodafone and Hutchison are each other’s closest competitors for the 
supply of retail mobile telecommunications services, either to lower-spend 
mobile customers, or any other mobile customer segment; 
- 
Whether Hutchison and/or Vodafone is a particularly aggressive price-based 
competitor, and if so, in which particular mobile customer segments; 
- 
Whether Telstra and Optus are unlikely to act as effective competitors to the 
merged entity for lower-spend mobile services; 
- 
Whether, in the event that Vodafone and Hutchison merge their mobile network 
operations, the merged entity would be in a position to increase prices for  
mobile services in a sustainable manner; 
- 
Whether, in the absence of Vodafone and Hutchison merging their mobile 
network operations, there would be less aggressive price competition in the 
retail market; 
- 
The likelihood that Vodafone and Hutchison, in the event that they merge their 
mobile operations, would compete aggressively on price and/or product 
innovations, and if so, in which particular mobile customer segments;  
- 
The likelihood that Telstra and Optus, or any other supplier of retail mobile 
services (such as an MVNO), would constrain the merged entity’s attempts to 
increase prices for lower-spend mobile services; and 
- 
Whether there are circumstances in the mobile market that make coordinated 
effects more likely to occur. 
Increased potential for infrastructure-based competition 
53. 
The forward-looking nature of merger analysis means that the ACCC, when 
analysing the competitive effect of a merger, must take into account the changing 
nature of the market. In this regard, the merger parties submit that the merged 
entity would be of sufficient size and scope to compete strongly against Optus 
and Telstra particularly in data-intensive markets.  
54. 
The ACCC considers that, in the longer term, the merged entity may be able to 
develop as a stronger infrastructure-based mobile telecommunications services 
provider due to the increased scale of its operations. However, the ACCC 
recognises that significant investments in network coverage and capacity will be 
necessary to achieve this end.  


Vodafone Group plc and Hutchison 3G Australia Pty Ltd – proposed merger of Australian mobile operations 
 
10
55. 
As part of its investigation, the ACCC will further examine:  
 
the extent to which the effective integration of the merged entity may be 
hindered by one or both of the existing network sharing JV arrangements 
with Telstra and Optus;  
 
whether the costs of terminating one or both of these JV arrangements, along 
with the integration costs of the proposed merger, would prevent the merged 
entity from undertaking major network investments in the short to medium 
term; 
 
whether the merged entity can combine the spectrum owned by each party in 
an effective manner;  
 
the likely timeframes for the merged entity’s network enhancements; 
 
the likely impact of such network enhancements on competition with other 
MNOs;  
 
whether significant network investments would be likely to be made in any 
case in the absence of the proposed merger; and 
 
whether infrastructure-based competition will increase in the longer term 
with or without the proposed merger.  
56. 
These issues will be relevant in considering the duration of any competitive harm 
arising from the proposed merger in the retail telecommunications services 
market. As noted above, the ACCC is concerned that the merger may raise 
competition concerns in the short to medium term. The ACCC notes the merger 
parties’ submission that, in the longer term, the merged entity may develop a 
network of a similar scale and scope to its competitors.  
57. 
The ACCC intends to explore the duration of anti-competitive harm and the 
likelihood and timeliness of any advantages for competition eventuating as a 
result of the proposed merger.  
The ACCC invites market participants to comment on the possible longer term 
competitive benefits from the proposed merger. 
The ACCC welcomes any comments from market participants regarding the potential 
for the merged entity to be a stronger infrastructure-based competitor in the longer 
term, including the extent to which the merged entity will face any technical or legal 
barriers to network upgrades or expansion. 
Issues unlikely to pose concerns 
58. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that competition issues are unlikely to arise in 
the five wholesale markets.  


Vodafone Group plc and Hutchison 3G Australia Pty Ltd – proposed merger of Australian mobile operations 
 
11
59. 
The ACCC also considers that there are unlikely to be competition concerns 
posed by the aggregation of the merger parties’ radiofrequency spectrum (a key 
input in the retail market). 
Wholesale markets 
60. 
The ACCC understands that Hutchison has little or no presence in the markets for 
the: 
 
the acquisition of domestic transmission capacity services (DTCS); 
 
the supply of mobile services for the purposes of resale to retail customers; 
and 
 
the supply of domestic and international roaming services. 
61. 
The ACCC considers that Telstra and Optus would continue to constrain the 
behaviour of the merged entity in these markets post-merger.  
62. 
In the markets for 3G mobile and Internet content, and mobile terminating access 
services (MTAS), the ACCC is of the view that the proposed merger is unlikely 
to substantially lessen competition. Indeed, the merger may leave the merged 
entity in a stronger position to compete more effectively with Telstra and Optus 
in these markets. 
Aggregation of spectrum 
63. 
Hutchison currently owns spectrum in the 850MHz, 1800MHz, and 2100MHz 
frequency bands. Vodafone currently owns spectrum in the 900MHz, 1800MHz 
and 2100MHz frequency bands. The merger parties’ spectrum holdings are in all 
metropolitan capital cities, large regional cities, and some regional/rural areas. 
64. 
The ACCC has considered whether the aggregation of the merger parties’ 
spectrum will increase the ability and incentive of the merged entity to hoard 
unused spectrum with the effect of raising barriers to expansion for existing 
MNOs. 
65. 
The ACCC considers that a substantial lessening of competition is unlikely to 
arise in relation to the aggregation of spectrum.  
66. 
In assessing a merger pursuant to section 50 of the Trade Practices Act 1974, the 
ACCC must consider the effects of the transaction by comparing the likely future 
state of competition if the transaction proceeds (the ‘with’ or ‘factual’ position) to 
the likely future state of competition if the transaction does not proceed (the 
‘without’ or ‘counterfactual’ position). 
67. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that ‘without’ the merger, it appears unlikely 
that the merger parties would be likely to sell their spectrum. Therefore, while the 
merged entity has an increased incentive to hoard its spectrum, it may have an 
increased incentive to use previously unused spectrum to enhance network 
capacity or rollout a new network in the longer term. 


Vodafone Group plc and Hutchison 3G Australia Pty Ltd – proposed merger of Australian mobile operations 
 
12
The ACCC invites market participants to comment on the wholesale markets and 
spectrum aggregation. 
The ACCC welcomes any comments on these issues, including whether there are likely 
to be competition concerns in these markets.  
In terms of spectrum, the ACCC welcomes comments on the likelihood of any 
currently used spectrum being ‘freed’ up in the near future for use by an MNO. 
ACCC’s future steps 
68. 
The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers market responses 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
69. 
The ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on each of the issues 
identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that may be relevant 
to the ACCC’s assessment of this matter. 
70. 
Submissions are to be received by the ACCC no later than 17 April 2009. The 
ACCC will consider the submissions received and will, in conjunction with 
information and submissions already provided by the parties, come to a final 
view as to the appropriate course of action to take to resolve any competition 
concerns that remain. 
71. 
The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 6 May 2009. However 
the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Merger Review Process 
Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose of explaining the 
ACCC’s final view may be published following the ACCC’s public 
announcement. 
