 
 
1 
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
tel: (02) 6243 1368
mergers@accc.gov.au
www.accc.gov.au
Our ref:  
IM-70708 
 
Contact officer: 
Elizabeth Elias / Connie Wu   
 
Contact phone:  
(02) 6243 1104 / (08) 9326 0637  
16 July 2020  
Dear Interested Party 
Request for submissions: Danfoss’ proposed acquisition of Eaton’s hydraulics 
business 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
Danfoss A/S’ (Danfoss) proposed acquisition of the hydraulics business of Eaton 
Corporation plc (Eaton Hydraulics) (the proposed acquisition). 
Danfoss and Eaton Hydraulics operate globally and overlap in the supply of hydraulics 
systems and components to distributors and original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). In 
particular, they both supply hydraulic valves and hydraulic motors for mobile applications in 
Australia. Further details regarding the proposed acquisition are at Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focussed on the impact on competition. In particular, we are 
seeking your views on: 
 
how closely Danfoss and Eaton Hydraulics compete in the supply of hydraulics 
systems and components 
 
whether prices may increase or service levels may decrease as a result of the 
proposed acquisition, and 
 
whether customers of Danfoss and Eaton Hydraulics have access to sufficient 
alternative suppliers.  
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits mergers and 
acquisitions that are likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a 
market. 
Please provide your response by no later than 5pm on 6 August 2020. Responses may be 
emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: Submission re: Danfoss / Eaton Hydraulics 
- attention Elizabeth Elias / Connie Wu. If you would like to arrange a time to discuss the 
matter with ACCC staff, or have any questions about this letter, please contact Elizabeth 
Elias on (02) 6243 1104 or Connie Wu on (08) 9325 9637. 


 
 
2 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public 
Mergers Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We will not 
disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by 
law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or during court proceedings) or 
in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010.  Where the 
ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, the ACCC will notify you in advance 
where possible so that you may have an opportunity to be heard.  Therefore, if the 
information provided to the ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our 
Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
Sheridan de Kruiff 
A/g General Manager 
Merger Investigations


 
 
3 
Attachment A 
 
Danfoss 
Danfoss is headquartered in Denmark and active globally in the manufacture of 
components and engineering technologies for refrigeration, air conditioning, heating, motor 
control and hydraulics for mobile off-road and on-road machinery.  
Danfoss’ Australian business is limited to the importation, sale and distribution of mobile 
hydraulics products from its overseas factories. Danfoss supplies both directly to OEMs 
and to distributors.  
Eaton 
Eaton is a diversified industrial manufacturer with corporate headquarters in Ireland and 
operation headquarters in the USA.  
Eaton Hydraulics is the hydraulics business segment of Eaton (excluding its golf grips and 
filtration businesses). It primarily supplies hydraulics products for mobile (i.e. vehicle) and 
industrial (i.e. stationary) applications across the industry sectors of mining, agriculture, 
waste management, construction & earthmoving, truck & bus, material handling and airport 
equipment. 
Eaton Hydraulics supplies both directly to OEMs and to distributors.  
Overlap in Australia 
Danfoss and Eaton Hydraulics primarily overlap in the supply of hydraulic valves and 
hydraulic motors for mobile applications. Mobile applications refer to on-road and off-road 
vehicles designed for mechanised tasks. 
Both Danfoss and Eaton Hydraulics import finished hydraulics products into Australia from 
their overseas manufacturing facilities. The parties both have local facilities where they 
undertake modification, integration and testing of hydraulics systems or products to 
customers’ specifications. Danfoss’ facility is in Sydney, and Eaton Hydraulics’ is in 
Melbourne.  


 
 
4 
Attachment B   
1. Please provide a brief description of your business or organisation.  
2. Please outline your interest in the proposed acquisition, including any commercial 
relationship(s) with Danfoss or Eaton Hydraulics. 
Questions for customers (distributors or OEMs) 
3. Please identify and describe the types of hydraulics products your company 
procures in Australia, and identify your current suppliers.  
4. Please discuss whether prices may increase or service levels may decrease due 
to the proposed acquisition, for any hydraulics products you procure in Australia. 
5. Please describe how you procure different types of hydraulics products – for 
example, through tenders or other methods – including the typical duration of 
contracts, whether contracts are exclusive, and whether the same or different 
suppliers are used for various components of a hydraulic system. 
6. For each hydraulic product you procure in Australia, please identify and describe 
the key alternative suppliers capable of servicing your needs. In your response, 
please identify how they compare to Danfoss and Eaton Hydraulics, in relation 
their product range, pricing, service, innovation or local presence. 
7. Please discuss the extent to which you consider Danfoss and Eaton Hydraulics to 
be close competitors in the supply of hydraulics products. In your response, 
please consider factors such as the types of products the parties supply, their 
geographic areas of supply, and their local facilities.  
8. Please discuss whether you would have the ability to self-supply or import any of 
the hydraulics products that you currently acquire from Danfoss or Eaton 
Hydraulics. Please provide details. 
Questions for competitors 
9. Please identify the types of hydraulics products you supply in Australia. 
10. Please identify your competitors for the supply of each product identified in your 
response to question 9. Please provide estimated market shares where possible. 
11. Please indicate whether you manufacture hydraulics products domestically or 
import such products from overseas. If it is the latter, please describe the extent 
to which you carry out design, modification, integration and testing work on 
hydraulics products within Australia. 
12. Please discuss the likelihood of new entry or expansion into the supply of 
hydraulics products in Australia. In your response, please consider the likely 
timeframe for entry or expansion and provide details about barriers to entry. 
Please provide examples of recent entry or expansion where possible.  
Other information or competition issues 
13. Please provide any additional information or comments that you consider relevant 
to the ACCC’s consideration of the proposed acquisition.  
 
