Page 1 of 7 
 
Statement of Issues 
13 September 2012 
Seven Group Holdings Limited – proposed acquisition of 
Consolidated Media Holdings Limited 
Introduction 
1. 
Outlined below is the Statement of Issues released by the Australian 
Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) on the proposed acquisition of 
Consolidated Media Holdings Limited by Seven Group Holdings Limited (the 
proposed acquisition). 
2. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well 
as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
3. 
In line with the ACCC’s Merger Review Process Guidelines (at 
www.accc.gov.au/processguidelines) the ACCC has established a secondary 
timeline for further consideration of the issues. The ACCC anticipates completing 
further market inquiries by 27 September 2012 and anticipates making a final 
decision by 11 October 2012. However, the anticipated timeline can change in 
line with the Merger Review Process Guidelines. To keep abreast of possible 
changes in relation to timing and to find relevant documents, market participants 
should visit the Mergers Register on the ACCC's website at 
www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
4. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 
The proposed acquisition 
5. 
Seven Group Holdings (Seven) proposes to acquire all of the issued shares in 
Consolidated Media Holdings (CMH). Seven currently has a 24% interest in 
CMH.  
6. 
On 21 July 2012, Seven provided a submission seeking informal clearance from 
the ACCC. The ACCC commenced an informal review on 22 July 2012. 


Page 2 of 7 
The parties 
Seven Group Holdings Limited 
7. 
Seven is a diversified Australian operating and investment group. It has interests 
in a range of non-media and media entities, including: 
 Seven West Media – approximately 32% and a $250m convertible note 
which does not carry voting rights; 
 CMH – approximately 24%; and 
 Prime Media Group – approximately 11%. 
8. 
Seven West Media comprises the Seven Network, Pacific Magazines, Yahoo7 
the West Australian newspaper, and regional newspapers and radio stations in 
Western Australia. Kerry Stokes is the executive director of both Seven and 
Seven West Media. Seven also appoints two of Seven West Media’s seven 
directors. 
9. 
Prime Media Group owns the PRIME7 television network (broadcast as the 
Golden West Network in Western Australia).  
10. 
The interests and activities of CMH are discussed below.   
11. 
For the six months to 31 December 2012, Seven had total revenue of $1.96 
million and EBITDA1 of $288.6 million. 
Consolidated Media Holdings Limited 
12. 
CMH is a media investment company, with investments primarily in the 
subscription television sector. CMH has a 50% interest in FOX SPORTS 
Australia Pty Limited (FSA) and, through its stake in FSA, has a 25% interest in 
FOXTEL. 
13. 
The largest shareholder in CMH is Consolidated Press Holdings (50%), a family 
company. James Packer is the deputy chairman of CMH and the executive 
chairman of Consolidated Press Holdings. 
14. 
For the 2011/12 financial year, CMH reported an operating net profit after tax of 
$97.9m. 
Other industry participants 
FOXTEL 
15. 
FOXTEL’s immediate owners are Telstra Corporation Ltd (50%) and FSA (via its 
wholly owned subsidiary Sky Cable) (50%). News Corporation Ltd and 
Consolidated Media Holdings Limited each have a 50% interest in FSA.  As set 
out above, Seven currently has a 24% interest in CMH.  
16. 
The ownership structure of FOXTEL is depicted in Figure 1. 
                                                 
 
1 Profit before depreciation and amortisation, net finance costs and tax, and before significant 
items. 


Page 3 of 7 
Figure 1 - FOXTEL ownership structure 
 
17. 
FOXTEL is Australia’s largest subscription television provider delivering 
audiovisual content to more than 2.3 million residential subscribers in Australia. 
18. 
FOXTEL delivers more than 200 channels, including high definition (HD) content, 
covering news, sport, general entertainment, movies, documentaries, music and 
children’s programming. 
19. 
After including one-off, transaction and integration costs and consolidation of 
Austar from May 23 2012, FOXTEL generated an EBITDA of $558m and EBIT of 
$241m in the year ended 30 June 2012. 
FOX SPORTS AUSTRALIA  
20. 
FSA is a sports producer and broadcaster and supplies a number of subscription 
television sports channels to FOXTEL. FSA compiles and produces the FOX 
SPORTS, FOX SPORTS NEWS, FOX FOOTY, FUEL TV and SPEED 
subscription TV channels available via and the SPORTS Play and FOOTY Play 
powered by FOX SPORTS IPTV channels available on Xbox360 and Telstra T-
box. 
21. 
FSA also supplies the FOX SPORTS produced channels including FOX FOOTY, 
FUEL TV and SPEED to more than 5,100 hotels and licensed venues as well as 
180,000 hotel rooms throughout Australia. 
With/without test  
22. 
Section 50 of the Act prohibits mergers or acquisitions that would have the effect 
or be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
In assessing a proposed acquisition pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC 
considers the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future competitive 
environment post-acquisition if the acquisition proceeds (the “with” position) to 
the likely future competitive environment if the acquisition does not proceed (the 
“without” position) to determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in any relevant market. 
23. 
The ownership and control of CMH in the absence of the proposed acquisition, 
and in particular whether News Limited would increase its interest in CMH, is not 
clear. However, for the purposes of the Statement of Issues, the ACCC has 


Page 4 of 7 
proceeded on the basis that in the absence of the proposed acquisition, there 
will be no increase in the proportion of CMH which is owned by a FTA network or 
an entity with interests in a FTA network, relative to the position under the status 
quo.  
Market inquiries 
24. 
On 22 July 2012 the ACCC commenced market inquiries regarding the proposed 
acquisition. A range of interested parties provided responses, including other 
free to air and subscription television suppliers. 
Market definition  
25. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the following markets are relevant to its 
review of the proposed acquisition: 
 
The national market for the supply of free to air television services. 
 
The national market for the supply of subscription television services. 
 
The national market for the acquisition of audiovisual content (including 
possible markets, or sub-markets, for the acquisition of specific content such 
as sports). 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its proposed definition of the 
relevant markets.  
Statement of issues 
26. 
For the purposes of this Statement of Issues, the issues in this matter are 
divided into two categories, 'issues of concern' and 'issues unlikely to pose 
concerns'. 
Issues of concern 
27. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is likely to raise 
competition concerns in the market for the supply of free to air television (FTA) 
services.  
Supply of free to air television services 
28. 
FSA acquires a large number of sporting rights and frequently enters into 
commercial arrangements with FTA networks in relation to sporting rights. 
FOXTEL also acquires sporting rights from time to time and sometimes enters 
into commercial arrangements with FTA networks in relation to those rights.  
29. 
Market inquiries have indicated that, at the present time, it is very important for 
FTA networks to have the opportunity to partner with FSA or FOXTEL in relation 
to the acquisition of sporting rights, whether through a joint venture for the 
acquisition of rights or by selling parts of an acquired rights package to FSA or 
FOXTEL. This is because many sporting bodies sell the relevant sporting rights 
as a single package of games or events and not all of this content is suitable to 
be broadcast by a FTA network due to commercial scheduling considerations. 
Thus it is important for FTA networks to be able to jointly acquire rights with a 
subscription television partner and/or sell excess games or events to a 
subscription television partner. In addition, joint arrangements with FSA or 
FOXTEL can also be used to share production assets and reduce costs.  


Page 5 of 7 
30. 
The ability to partner with FSA or FOXTEL in relation to the acquisition of 
sporting rights in commercially beneficial ways enables FTA networks to submit 
higher bids for sporting rights which are more likely to be accepted by the rights 
holders. Market inquiries indicated that if the proposed acquisition were to create 
difficulties for FTA networks in their dealings with FSA or FOXTEL, it could have 
a significant effect on their businesses by making them less competitive in the 
acquisition of sporting rights. 
31. 
The ACCC is concerned that Seven’s acquisition of a 50% interest in FSA as 
well as the representation on the board of FSA that it would gain as a result of 
the proposed acquisition, would enable Seven to exercise significant influence 
over FSA. The ACCC considers that this would likely result in FSA favouring 
Seven Network over rival FTA networks. To the extent that FOXTEL acquires 
sporting rights, similar concerns would arise by virtue of Seven acquiring a 25% 
stake in, and gaining representation on the board of, FOXTEL as a result of the 
proposed acquisition. 
32. 
On the basis of information available to date, the ACCC considers that the 
proposed acquisition would give Seven the ability to influence FSA and 
FOXTEL’s engagement with other FTA networks in relation to the acquisition of 
sporting rights. In particular, the proposed acquisition would give Seven board 
representation on each of FSA and FOXTEL (which it does not currently have) 
and, in combination with Seven’s significant shareholding in FSA and FOXTEL 
post acquisition, would result in a closer alignment of the interests and incentives 
of FSA, FOXTEL and Seven. 
33. 
In the event that FSA and FOXTEL did continue to engage with other FTA 
networks despite Seven’s involvement, the ACCC would be concerned that 
Seven’s representation on the FSA and FOXTEL boards would give it access to 
confidential information relating to sports rights bids being made by other FTA 
networks. This may provide Seven with a competitive advantage in negotiations 
with sporting bodies in acquiring such rights. 
34. 
The ACCC’s market inquiries indicate that premium sporting rights (i.e. high-
rating, high value sports that are typically sought after by FTA networks such as 
AFL, NRL, domestic cricket and the Australian Open) are a critical component of 
a FTA network’s overall program offering. Premium sports programs are high-
rating programs themselves and also provide an opportunity to bolster the 
network’s overall ratings due to the cross-promotion of other programs and 
opportunities for tie-ins with other shows on the network. Based on current 
competitive dynamics, if these networks became weaker, this may reduce their 
capability to invest in the production and acquisition of content that is attractive 
to consumers and advertisers. 
35. 
The ACCC considers that the proposed acquisition has the potential to cause a 
substantial lessening of competition in the FTA market by limiting the ability of 
Seven Network’s rival FTA channels to effectively bid for premium sporting 
rights. 
36. 
While market inquiries indicate that FSA and FOXTEL are, at present, a unique 
and important outlet for excess sports rights acquired by FTA networks, the 
ACCC is exploring the extent to which emerging content distribution platforms, 
such as IPTV, internet or mobile, could provide FTA networks with avenues to 
exploit excess rights (whether directly, or in partnership with another content 
distributor) as an alternative to partnering with FSA or FOXTEL. 
37. 
If the proposed acquisition were to result in a reduction in FTA competition by 
virtue of Seven Network’s rivals being less able to competitively bid for sports 


Page 6 of 7 
rights, this reduction in the number of strong FTA networks could have a number 
of detrimental effects, including: 
 
Reduced choice and quality of programming available to consumers on 
competing FTA networks. 
 
Reduced choice for advertisers wishing to reach a mass-market 
audience.  This could result in Seven having the ability to increase the 
price of its advertising opportunities/slots. 
The ACCC invites market participants to comment on: 
(i) 
The importance to a FTA network of being able to partner with FSA and FOXTEL 
in relation to the acquisition of sporting rights. 
(ii) 
The level of competitive harm that the sharing of confidential bid information 
between FSA and Seven may have on other FTA networks in relation to the 
acquisition of sports rights. 
(iii) 
The likelihood that emerging content distribution platforms could, in the short to 
medium term, provide a FTA network with an alternative to commercial 
arrangements with FSA or FOXTEL in relation to the acquisition of sports rights.  
(iv) 
Whether, and in what ways, FTA viewers could be harmed by the proposed 
acquisition. 
Issues unlikely to pose concerns 
Supply of subscription television services 
38. 
To the extent that Seven supplies non-sporting content to subscription television 
operators (or releases its content suppliers from exclusivity obligations with 
respect to such content) the ACCC considers that the proposed acquisition 
would give Seven an increased incentive to favour FOXTEL in such dealings. In 
addition, Seven would have an increased incentive to consider entering into a 
joint arrangement with FOXTEL if it were to contemplate an output deal for both 
FTA and subscription television rights in relation to such content.  
39. 
However, the ACCC understands that it is relatively rare that non-sporting 
content acquired by FTA operators is on-supplied to subscription television 
operators.  Also, instances of joint bidding between FTA operators and 
subscription television operators are very rare. The ACCC understands that this 
is because the rights holders of non-sporting content typically sell FTA and STV 
rights in separate time windows. As such, any attempt by Seven to favour 
FOXTEL would only have the potential to affect a small proportion of the relevant 
content available to other subscription television suppliers. 
40. 
Accordingly, the ACCC does not consider that Seven’s increased incentive to 
favour FOXTEL in these circumstances is likely to have a material effect on 
competition in the subscription television market.  
Acquisition of audiovisual content 
41. 
The ACCC considers that Seven and FOXTEL are not close competitors in the 
acquisition of non-sporting rights. This is due to their different programming 
requirements and, to some extent, rights windowing arrangements, which make 
content available for sale to different parties at different times and limit the 
degree of competition between FTA networks and subscription television 
providers. 


Page 7 of 7 
42. 
The ACCC considers that Seven and FOXTEL/FSA are also not close 
competitors in relation to the acquisition of many sporting rights. While 
FOXTEL/FSA are interested in a very wide range of sports, with varying degrees 
of mass-market appeal, Seven and other commercial FTA networks are primarily 
interested in acquiring the rights to sports with mass market appeal.  
43. 
The ACCC considers that there is a degree of competition between Seven and 
FOXTEL/FSA in relation to the acquisition of some premium domestic sporting 
rights, such as AFL and NRL. However, a number of factors indicate that the 
market for the acquisition of these rights is unlikely to be materially affected by 
the proposed acquisition: 
 Direct competition for these rights between FTA networks and subscription 
television providers is limited by the anti-siphoning regime.2 
 
 Broadcasting schedule considerations mean that the interests of FTA 
networks and subscription television providers are to some extent 
complementary.  
 
 Due to the very high appeal of these rights, the relevant rights holders 
could credibly threaten to deal exclusively with the other FTA networks. 
Over time, the relevant rights holders may also be able to consider 
alternative distribution mechanisms in response to an attempt by a 
combined Seven/FOXTEL entity to reduce the price that they offered for 
these rights. 
ACCC's future steps 
44. 
The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers market responses 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
45. 
The ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on each of the 
issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that may be 
relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. 
46. 
Submissions are to be received by the ACCC no later than 27 September 2012. 
The ACCC will consider the submissions received from the market and the 
merger parties in light of the issues identified above and will, in conjunction with 
information and submissions already provided by the parties, come to a final 
view in light of the issues raised above. 
47. 
The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 11 October 2012. 
However the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Merger Review 
Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose of 
explaining the ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's public 
announcement. 
                                                 
 
2 The anti-siphoning regime is a component of s115 of the Broadcasting Services Act 1992 
under which the Minister for Communications may specify an event, or events of a kind, the 
televising of which should, in the opinion of the Minister, be available free to the general public. 
