Page 1 of 10 
 
Public Competition Assessment 
15 February 2013 
Seven Group Holdings Limited - proposed acquisition of 
remaining shares in Consolidated Media Holdings Limited 
Introduction 
1. 
On 11 October 2012, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission 
(ACCC) announced its decision to oppose the proposed  acquisition of 74.7% of 
the shares in Consolidated Media Holdings Limited (CMH) by Seven Group 
Holdings Limited (Seven) (the proposed acquisition). The ACCC formed the 
view that the proposed acquisition would have or be likely to have the effect of 
substantially lessening competition in the market for the supply of free to air 
television services in Australia, in contravention of section 50 of the Competition 
and Consumer Act 2010 (the Act). 
2. 
The ACCC made its decision on the basis of the information provided by the 
merger parties and information arising from its market inquiries. Subject to 
confidentiality considerations, this Public Competition Assessment outlines the 
basis on which the ACCC reached its decision in relation to the proposed 
acquisition. 
Public Competition Assessment 
3. 
To provide an enhanced level of transparency and procedural fairness in its 
decision making process, the ACCC issues a Public Competition Assessment for 
all proposed acquisitions where: 
 the proposed acquisition is opposed; 
 the proposed acquisition is subject to enforceable undertakings; 
 the merger parties seek such disclosure; or 
 the proposed acquisition is not opposed but raises important issues that the 
ACCC considers should be made public. 
4. 
This Public Competition Assessment has been issued because Seven Group 
Holdings Limited’s proposed acquisition of all of the shares in Consolidated 
Media Holdings Limited it did not already own (74.7%) was opposed by the 
ACCC. 


 
Page 2 of 10 
5. 
By issuing Public Competition Assessments, the ACCC aims to provide the 
public with a better understanding of the ACCC's analysis of various markets and 
the associated merger and competition issues. It also alerts the public to 
circumstances where the ACCC’s assessment of the competition conditions in 
particular markets is changing, or likely to change. 
6. 
Each Public Competition Assessment is specific to the particular transaction 
under review by the ACCC. While some transaction proposals may involve the 
same or related markets, it should not be assumed that the analysis and 
decision outlined in one Public Competition Assessment will be conclusive of the 
ACCC’s view in respect of other transaction proposals, as each matter will be 
considered on its own merits. 
7. 
Public Competition Assessments outline the ACCC’s principal reasons for 
forming views on a proposed acquisition at the time the decision was made. As 
such, Public Competition Assessments may not definitively identify and explain 
all issues that the ACCC considers arise from a proposed acquisition. Further, 
the ACCC’s decisions generally involve consideration of both non-confidential 
and confidential information provided by the merger parties and market 
participants. In order to maintain the confidentiality of particular information, 
Public Competition Assessments do not contain any confidential information nor 
its sources. 
The parties 
The acquirer: Seven Group Holdings Limited (Seven) 
8. 
Seven is a diversified Australian operating and investment group. At the relevant 
time (at the time of the ACCC’s decision), it had interests in a range of non-
media and media entities, including: 
 Seven West Media – approximately 32% and a $250m convertible note 
which does not carry voting rights; 
 Consolidated Media Holdings – 25.3%; and 
 Prime Media Group – approximately 11%. 
9. 
Seven West Media operates the Seven Network, Pacific Magazines, Yahoo7 the 
West Australian newspaper, and regional newspapers and radio stations in 
Western Australia. Seven Network owns commercial free to air television 
networks in each Australian metropolitan city and regional Queensland. Regional 
affiliates broadcast Seven Network content in Victoria, NSW and Western 
Australia. Mr Kerry Stokes is the executive Chairman of Seven and the non-
executive Chairman of Seven West Media. Three of Seven West Media’s nine 
directors are also directors of Seven. 
10. 
Prime Media Group owns the PRIME7 television network (broadcast as the 
Golden West Network in Western Australia).  
11. 
The interests and activities of CMH are discussed below.  


 
Page 3 of 10 
12. 
For FY 2011/12, Seven had total revenue of $4.456 billion and EBITDA1 of 
$629.8 million. 
The target: Consolidated Media Holdings Limited (CMH) 
13. 
CMH is a media investment company, with investments primarily in the 
subscription television sector. CMH has a 50% shareholding in FOX SPORTS 
Australia Pty Limited (FSA) and, through this shareholding in FSA, has an 
indirect 25% interest in FOXTEL. 
14. 
At the time that the proposed acquisition was being considered by the ACCC, 
the largest shareholder in CMH was Consolidated Press Holdings, a family 
company, which owned 50% of the shares in CMH. Mr James Packer was the 
Deputy Chairman of CMH and the executive Chairman of Consolidated Press 
Holdings. 
15. 
For the 2011/12 financial year, CMH reported an operating net profit after tax of 
$97.9m. 
Other industry participants 
 
FOXTEL Management Pty Ltd (FOXTEL) 
16. 
FOXTEL’s immediate shareholders are Telstra Corporation Ltd (50%) and Sky 
Cable(a wholly owned subsidiary of FSA) (50%). News Limited and CMH each 
have a 50% interest in FSA. As set out above, Seven had a 25.3% interest in 
CMH at the time the proposed acquisition was being considered by the ACCC.  
17. 
The ownership structure of FOXTEL as at October 2012 is depicted in Figure 1. 
                                                 
1 Profit before depreciation and amortisation, net finance costs and tax, and before significant items. 


 
Page 4 of 10 
Figure 1 - FOXTEL ownership structure as at October 2012 
 
18. 
FOXTEL is Australia’s largest subscription television provider delivering 
audiovisual content to more than 2.3 million residential subscribers in Australia. 
19. 
FOXTEL delivers more than 200 channels, including high definition (HD) content, 
covering news, sport, general entertainment, movies, documentaries, music and 
children’s programming. 
20. 
FOXTEL generated an EBITDA of $558m and EBIT of $241m in the year ended 
30 June 2012. 
FOX SPORTS AUSTRALIA (FSA) 
21. 
FSA is a sports producer and broadcaster and supplies a number of subscription 
television sports channels to FOXTEL. FSA compiles and produces the FSA, 
FSA NEWS, FOX FOOTY, FUEL TV and SPEED subscription TV channels 
available via and the SPORTS Play and FOOTY Play IPTV channels on 
Xbox360 and Telstra T-box. 
22. 
FSA also supplies the FSA produced channels including FOX FOOTY, FUEL TV 
and SPEED to more than 5,100 hotels and licensed venues as well as 180,000 
hotel rooms throughout Australia. 
News Limited (News) 
23. 
News Limited (News) is a subsidiary of News Corporation. 
24. 
At the time of the ACCC’s review, News had made an offer for all the shares in 
CMH that it did not already own. This acquisition would represent an increase by 
News of its shareholding in FSA from 50% to 100%, and an increase of its 
indirect interest in FOXTEL from 25% to 50%. 


 
Page 5 of 10 
25. 
On 2 August 2012, the ACCC announced that it would not oppose the proposed 
acquisition of CMH by News. 
The proposed acquisition 
26. 
Seven proposed to acquire all of the issued shares in CMH which it did not 
already own. Seven had a 25.3% shareholding in CMH at the relevant time.  
27. 
On 22 June 2012, Seven provided a submission to the ACCC seeking informal 
clearance from the ACCC. The ACCC commenced an informal review on 22 
June 2012. 
Review timeline 
28. 
The following table outlines the timeline of key events in this matter. 
Date 
Event 
22-Jun-2012 
 
 
 
 
ACCC commenced review under the Merger Review 
Process Guidelines. 
 
13-Jul-2012 
 
Closing date for submissions from interested parties. 
 
24-Jul-2012 
 
ACCC requested further information from the merger 
parties. ACCC timeline suspended. Former proposed 
decision date of 2 August  2012 delayed to allow 
provision of requested information. 
 
24-Aug-2012 
 
ACCC received further information from the merger 
parties. ACCC timeline recommenced. 
 
13-Sep-2012 
 
ACCC published a Statement of Issues outlining 
preliminary competition concerns. 
27-Sep-2012 
 
Closing date for submissions relating to Statement of 
Issues. 
 
11-Oct-2012 
ACCC announced it would oppose the proposed 
acquisition. 
Market inquiries 
29. 
The ACCC sought submissions from interested parties and conducted market 
inquiries with a range of industry participants, including competitors and other 
market participants.  
Statement of Issues 
30. 
The ACCC published a Statement of Issues on 13 September 2012 identifying a 
number of competition issues. In the Statement of Issues the ACCC expressed 
the preliminary view that the proposed acquisition would raise competition 
concerns in the market for the supply of free to air television services. Further 


 
Page 6 of 10 
submissions were sought from industry participants in relation to the substantive 
competition issues outlined in the ACCC’s Statement of Issues.  
With/without test 
31. 
Section 50 of the Act prohibits acquisitions of shares or assets that would have 
the effect or be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a 
market. In assessing a proposed acquisition pursuant to section 50 of the Act, 
the ACCC considers the likely effect of the acquisition by comparing the likely 
future competitive environment  if the acquisition proceeds (the “with” position) 
with the likely future competitive environment if the acquisition does not proceed 
(the “without” position). 
32. 
At the time the proposed acquisition was being considered by the ACCC, the 
ownership and control of CMH in the absence of the proposed acquisition, and in 
particular whether News Limited would increase its interest in CMH, was not 
clear. For the purposes of the ACCC’s competition assessment, this did not 
matter. The ACCC proceeded on the basis that in the absence of the proposed 
acquisition, there would be no increase in the proportion of CMH which was 
owned by a free to air network or an entity with interests in a free to air network.  
Market definition 
33. 
The ACCC assessed the impact of the proposed acquisition in the context of the 
national market for the supply of free to air television services in Australia.  
Competition analysis 
34. 
The ACCC concluded that the proposed acquisition was likely to have the effect 
of substantially lessening competition in the market for the supply of free to air 
television services. This view was reached because the proposed acquisition 
would put Seven Network in a position of advantage relative to other free to air 
networks with respect to entering into joint bids and other commercial 
arrangements with FSA and FOXTEL for acquisition of sports rights. Being able 
to come to such arrangements with FSA or FOXTEL would enhance Seven 
Network’s ability to acquire the rights to premium sports. Given the importance of 
premium sporting content to a free to air network’s ability to compete strongly 
with other free to air networks, the ACCC considered that the advantage that 
Seven Network would gain with respect to the acquisition of such content would 
be likely to lead to a substantial lessening of competition in the market for the 
supply of free to air television services. 
35. 
Due to the benefits that premium sports rights can provide to free to air 
networks, the ACCC considered that the potential impact on the ability of Seven 
Network’s competitors to acquire sports rights jointly with FSA and FOXTEL as a 
result of the indirect ownership interests and board representation which would 
be acquired by Seven (as outlined in more detail, below) would have a significant 
effect on their ability to compete effectively in the free to air television market. 
The ACCC considered that, as a result, Seven Network’s free to air competitors 
would be less able to engage in direct competition with the Seven Network for 
viewers and advertisers following the proposed acquisition, potentially leading to 
a reduction in the quality or choice of free to air television programming available 
to viewers (for example, with respect to scheduling or production features), and 


 
Page 7 of 10 
also potentially enabling the Seven Network to charge increased advertising 
rates. 
Importance of joint bids and other commercial arrangements with FSA or 
FOXTEL in the acquisition of sports rights 
36. 
The ACCC noted that FSA acquires a large number of sporting rights and 
frequently enters into commercial arrangements with free to air networks in 
relation to key commercially attractive sporting rights. The ACCC also noted that 
while FOXTEL acquires sporting rights less frequently, it sometimes entered into 
commercial arrangements with free to air networks in relation to those rights. 
There are a number of commercial drivers which led to such arrangements, 
including that: 
 Many sporting rights holders sell a package of rights, the entirety of which 
is commercially unattractive for a single free to air network to acquire or 
broadcast. This gives free to air networks an incentive to enter into 
commercial arrangements with a subscription television network to share 
the package.  
 The operation of the Federal Government’s anti-siphoning regime2 
creates an incentive for subscription television networks to involve a free 
to air network partner in the acquisition of listed events. 
 In circumstances where the broadcast rights to a sporting event are likely 
to be split between free to air and subscription television, the ability to 
negotiate and present a unified free to air and subscription television bid 
is advantageous. Bidding in this way enables any potential conflicts 
between free to air and subscription television scheduling interests to be 
resolved by the successful bidders, rather than requiring the rights holder 
to attempt to reconcile inconsistent bids from separate free to air and 
subscription television networks. 
 Commercial arrangements between free to air and subscription television 
networks may facilitate the implementation of efficiencies and cost 
savings relating to joint production of the relevant sports broadcasts.  
37. 
Due to these commercial considerations, the ability to jointly bid or enter into 
commercial arrangements with FSA or FOXTEL in relation to the acquisition of 
sporting rights may enable free to air networks to submit higher value or 
otherwise more attractive bids for sporting rights. The ACCC considered that if 
the consequence of proposed acquisition was that Seven Networks’ free to air 
competitors would be at a disadvantage in their dealings with FSA or FOXTEL, 
this could make them significantly less competitive in the acquisition of certain 
sporting rights. 
38. 
The ACCC’s inquiries also indicated that other subscription television service 
providers, including IPTV service providers, are not likely to acquire a significant 
amount of premium sporting rights in the foreseeable future. Therefore, for the 
foreseeable future, FSA and Foxtel are effectively the only parties in Australia 
with whom free to air networks can enter into commercial arrangements in 
relation to the acquisition of sporting rights packages from rights holders. 
                                                 
2 The anti-siphoning regime is a component of s115 of the Broadcasting Services Act 1992 (Cth) under 
which the Minister for Communications may specify an event, or events of a kind, the televising of 
which should, in the opinion of the Minister, be available free to the general public.  


 
Page 8 of 10 
39. 
The ACCC recognised that, at various times, sporting rights have been acquired 
by free to air or subscription television networks independently of other content 
acquirers, rather than through joint bids or other commercial arrangements. 
However, the ACCC was aware of joint bids or other commercial arrangements 
between free to air television networks and FSA or FOXTEL being entered into 
in relation to each of the following premium sporting events: 
 Australian Football League domestic season 
 National Rugby League domestic season and state of origin 
 Australian Open Tennis 
 Summer and Winter Olympic Games 
 Commonwealth Games 
 International Cricket Council World Cup 
 Rugby Union (including international tests and the World Cup) 
40. 
In addition to these major events, the ACCC was aware of commercial 
arrangements being entered into or considered by free to air and subscription 
television networks in relation to a number of other domestic and international 
sporting events. The ACCC also considered that there was the possibility that, 
as the attractiveness to free to air television of certain sports changed over time, 
there may be other sporting events for which joint arrangements between free to 
air and subscription television networks might be commercially attractive in the 
future. 
41. 
Taking into account all of the information available to it, the ACCC considered 
that there were substantial potential commercial benefits to be gained from joint 
bids or other commercial arrangements between a free to air network and FSA 
or FOXTEL in respect of a significant proportion of the premium sporting rights 
that were likely to be attractive to a free to air television network. Thus, to the 
extent that Seven’s acquisition of the remaining shares in CMH and 
consequently its increased indirect interest in FSA and FOXTEL would have 
made it commercially more difficult for free to air networks other than the Seven 
Network to enter into such arrangements, it would have been likely to have had a 
substantial impact on the ability of these free to air networks to successfully bid 
for premium sports rights packages. 
Ability and incentive of Seven to influence FSA and/or FOXTEL 
42. 
The proposed acquisition would have resulted in Seven acquiring indirect 
ownership of 50% of the shares in FSA, and proportional representation on the 
FSA board. The proposed acquisition would also have given Seven indirect 
ownership of 25% of the shares in FOXTEL and the ability to appoint directors to 
the FOXTEL board.  
43. 
The ACCC considered that the proposed acquisition would have given Seven 
the ability (by reason of indirect ownership interests in FSA and FOXTEL and the 
ability to appoint directors to both boards),to make it more difficult for other free 
to air networks to enter into joint bids or other commercial arrangements with 
FSA or FOXTEL in relation to the acquisition of sports rights, notwithstanding the 
statutory and fiduciary duties imposed on the directors appointed by Seven. 
Seven’s indirect interest in FSA and FOXTEL as well as its ability to appoint 


 
Page 9 of 10 
directors to the FSA and FOXTEL boards would in practice have allowed Seven 
to veto any decision by the board of FSA (for example in favour of a joint bid with 
another free to air network). Alternatively Seven may have been able to influence 
the board of FSA and FOXTEL to accept a proposal from Seven Network in 
circumstances where an offer to FSA or FOXTEL in relation to a joint bid or 
commercial arrangement from the Seven Network was commercially realistic, 
and capable of being regarded as in the interests of FSA or FOXTEL. The ACCC 
also considered that Seven would have a clear incentive to favour the Seven 
Network over other free to air networks in such circumstances, due to its 
significant shareholding in Seven West Media. 
Access to information 
44. 
The ACCC found that in order to enter into a joint bid or other commercial 
arrangement with FSA or FOXTEL in relation to sports rights, the relevant free to 
air network was required to share confidential information about their bid with 
FSA or FOXTEL in order to properly coordinate the joint arrangement. Such 
information included the free to air network’s bid amount as well as event or 
game preferences.  
45. 
Based on the information available to it, the ACCC considered that there was a 
significant likelihood that the directors of FSA or FOXTEL appointed by Seven 
would gain access to such confidential information. While the ACCC 
acknowledged that there were likely to be legal obligations which could have 
limited the ability of the Seven appointed directors to disclose that confidential 
information to Seven, the ACCC also considered that there were likely to be 
certain types of information about FOXTEL’s business (including information 
about FOXTEL’s own commercial strategies and objectives in respect of sports 
rights acquisitions) which could (and would be likely to) be properly 
communicated to Seven as a significant ultimate shareholder in FOXTEL. The 
ACCC concluded that such information could provide a direct advantage to 
Seven either in direct negotiations with the relevant sport rights holder, or in 
dealings with FSA or FOXTEL if Seven was also seeking to negotiate or into 
enter joint arrangements with FSA or FOXTEL. 
46. 
Even given the legal restrictions on disclosure outlined above, the potential risk 
of such commercially sensitive information being communicated to Seven and/or 
the Seven Network may have acted as a deterrent to other free to air networks 
negotiating or entering into joint arrangements with FSA or FOXTEL. Due to the 
importance of such arrangements to free to air networks in the acquisition of 
sports rights, this could have enhanced the advantage that Seven Network may 
have gained from the proposed acquisition over other free to air networks in the 
acquisition of sporting rights. 
47. 
The ACCC assessed the impact of the proposed acquisition in the context of the 
national market for the supply of free to air television services in Australia. 
Importance of premium sports to free to air television competition 
48. 
Based on the information available to it, the ACCC considered that premium 
sports are an extremely important part of a free to air network’s program offering. 
Premium sports provide a free to air network with a high degree of ratings 
certainty, as viewer interest in major sports is generally consistent over many 
years, whereas interest in other programs or formats fluctuates more rapidly over 


 
Page 10 of 10 
time. The consistent ratings of major sports enable free to air networks to 
implement cross promotion and lead in strategies around sporting events, 
leading to a ratings ‘halo’ effect whereby broadcasting premium sports increases 
the network’s ratings overall. These benefits cause free to air networks to spend 
a significant proportion of their programming budgets on the acquisition of 
premium sports rights. 
49. 
The ACCC considered that the benefits to free to air networks of having the 
rights to premium sporting events were unlikely to decrease in the foreseeable 
future. In fact, the ACCC considered that these benefits had the potential to 
increase as ratings for live sporting events were unlikely to be affected by other 
forms of audiovisual distribution such as ‘on demand’ viewing over the internet. 
Conclusion 
50. 
Accordingly, the ACCC formed the view that the proposed acquisition by Seven 
of the remaining shares it did not hold in CMH would be likely to have the effect 
of substantially lessening competition in the market for the supply of free to air 
television services in Australia, in contravention of section 50 of the Act. 
 
