 
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
tel: (02) 6243 1368 
mergers@accc.gov.au
www.accc.gov.au
Our ref:  
72013 
 
 
Contact officer:  
Annelise Caplan / Andy Gallagher 
 
Contact phone: 
(03) 9910 9451 / (02) 9230 9129 
25 October 2022 
Dear Interested Party 
Re:  Request for submissions: Viva Energy’s proposed acquisition of Coles 
Express convenience business 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
the proposed acquisition of Coles Express convenience business by Viva Energy Group 
Limited (Viva Energy) (the proposed acquisition). 
Viva Energy, through its wholly owned subsidiaries, conducts fuel refining and importing, 
distribution and marketing in Australia. It is the exclusive supplier of Shell fuels and 
lubricants in Australia.  
Coles Express, operated by Eureka Operations Pty Ltd (a wholly owned subsidiary of 
Coles Group Limited), is an Australian chain of convenience stores at Shell Coles Express 
branded petrol stations.  
Further details are provided at Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact on competition. In particular, we are 
seeking your views on: 
• 
whether the proposed acquisition would impact retail fuel prices, noting that Viva 
Energy already supplies and prices the fuel at Shell Coles Express branded sites, 
and 
• 
whether the proposed acquisition is likely to impact Viva Energy’s incentives to 
supply downstream rivals 
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 


Please provide your response by 8 November 2022 via email with the title: Submission re: 
Viva Energy / Coles Express convenience business - attention Annelise Caplan/Andy 
Gallagher. If you require more time to respond, please let us know. 
If you would like to arrange a time to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any 
questions about this letter, please contact Annelise Caplan on (03) 9910 9451 or Andy 
Gallagher on (02) 9230 9129. 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public 
Mergers Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC treats sensitive information it receives during a merger review as confidential, and will 
not publish your submission. We will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our 
advisors/consultants) unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information 
legislation or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition and 
Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, we will notify 
you in advance where possible so that you have an opportunity to be heard. Therefore please 
clearly indicate if any information you provide is confidential. Our Informal Merger Review Process 
Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
Nick Cooke 
Executive Director  
Merger Investigations  
 
 


 
Attachment A 
Viva Energy 
Viva Energy Group Limited (Viva Energy), through its wholly owned subsidiaries, 
conducts fuel refining and importing, distribution and marketing in Australia. It 
operates an extensive network, including the Geelong Refinery and has a presence 
at over 50 airports and airfields.  
Viva Energy is the exclusive supplier of Shell fuels and lubricants in Australia. In 
2021, it supplied approximately one quarter of Australia’s liquid fuel requirements to 
fuel retailers, as well as directly to commercial customers.  
The Coles Express convenience business 
The Coles Express convenience business, operated by Eureka Operations Pty Ltd 
(Eureka), is one of Australia’s leading fuel and convenience retailers. Eureka 
operates 710 Coles Express sites across the country.  
Viva Energy and Eureka currently have a formal alliance arrangement (Alliance) in 
place with respect to the Coles Express convenience business. Pursuant to the 
Alliance, Viva Energy has full responsibility for the provision of the fuel offering 
(including retail pricing and marketing across the network) and Eureka operates the 
Coles Express convenience stores. The Alliance, which was otherwise due to end in 
2029, will terminate on completion of the proposed acquisition.  
The proposed acquisition 
Viva Energy, through a subsidiary, is proposing to acquire Coles Express convenience 
business from Eureka, a wholly owned subsidiary of Coles Group Limited (Coles Group) 
(the proposed acquisition).  
Following the proposed acquisition, Viva Energy and Coles Group will enter into a 
product supply agreement pursuant to which Coles Group will supply grocery 
products to Viva Energy for a set period. Further, Viva Energy and Coles Group 
propose to maintain Coles’ shopper docket scheme. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Attachment B 
1. If you are involved in the fuel industry, please describe your business or 
organisation and explain your interest in the proposed acquisition, including any 
commercial relationship(s) with Viva Energy and/or Coles Group. 
2. If you are not involved in the fuel industry, please explain your interest in the 
proposed acquisition. If you are writing as an individual, please indicate the 
suburb or region in which you reside and/or generally purchase fuel. 
Questions for wholesale and commercial fuel customers 
3. Please identify and describe the types of fuel you procure in Australia and identify 
your current suppliers. 
4. Please identify and describe the alternative suppliers capable of servicing your 
wholesale fuel requirements. 
5. Please discuss whether you expect your procurement of fuel products, including 
in the long term, would be affected by the proposed acquisition. In your answer 
you may wish to address whether Viva Energy’s incentive to supply downstream 
rivals of Shell Coles Express branded service stations is impacted by the 
proposed acquisition (noting that Viva Energy already supplies and prices the fuel 
at Shell Coles Express branded sites). 
Questions for Viva Energy’s wholesale competitors  
6. 
Please identify and describe the types of fuel and customers that you supply in 
Australia. 
7. 
Please discuss whether the proposed acquisition would have any impact on 
competition for wholesale fuel supply in Australia.  
Other questions 
8. 
Noting that Viva Energy already controls the price of fuel at Shell Coles Express 
branded service stations, in your view would the proposed acquisition affect Viva 
Energy’s incentives in relation to how it sets retail fuel prices at these sites? 
9. 
Please provide any additional information or comments that you consider relevant to 
the ACCC’s consideration of the proposed acquisition under section 50 of the Act. 
 
