 
14 August 2006 
 
Statement of Issues: OneSteel Limited – proposed acquisition of 
Smorgon Steel Group Limited 
 
1. Outlined below is the Statement of Issues released by the Australian Competition and 
Consumer Commission (ACCC) in relation to the proposed acquisition of Smorgon 
Steel Group Limited (Smorgon) by OneSteel Limited (OneSteel).  
 
2. A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision regarding a 
proposed acquisition, but provides preliminary views, and draws attention to particular 
issues of varying degrees of competition concern to the ACCC, as well as on the lines 
of enquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
 
3. In line with the ACCC’s Merger Review Process Guidelines (available on the ACCC’s 
website: www.accc.gov.au) the ACCC has established a secondary timeline for further 
consideration of the issues. The ACCC will receive responses to this Statement of 
Issues and complete its further market inquiries by 23 August 2006. The ACCC expects 
to make a final decision on 6 September 2006. However, the indicative timeline can 
change in line with the Merger Review Process Guidelines. To be kept abreast of 
possible changes in relation to timing and to find relevant documents, market 
participants should visit the ACCC’s website which contains the Mergers Register. To 
find the Mergers Register follow the link to “Public Registers” and then the link to 
“Mergers Register”.  
 
Date 
Event 
26 June 2006 
ACCC commenced assessment under Merger Review Process Guidelines 
27 June 2006 
ACCC commenced first round of market inquiries 
7 July 2006 
ACCC requested further information from OneSteel 
11 July 2006 
Closing date for submissions for the first round of market inquiries 
17 July 2006 
ACCC received further information from OneSteel in response to request of 7 
July 2006. 
28 July 2006 
ACCC requested further information from OneSteel 
7 August 2006 
ACCC received further information from OneSteel in response to request of 28 
July 2006. 
14 August 2006 
ACCC released a Statement of Issues in relation to the proposed acquisition 
23 August 2006 
Closing date for submissions in response to the Statement of Issues 
6 September 2006 
Proposed announcement of ACCC findings 
 
1


4. A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders, and other stakeholders) to ascertain and consider 
the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is intended to also provide both the 
merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further submissions 
should they consider it necessary 
 
Background 
 
5. On 26 June 2006, OneSteel sought informal clearance from the ACCC for a proposed 
acquisition of Smorgon under the ACCC’s Merger Review Process Guidelines.. 
 
6. OneSteel has offered draft section 87B undertakings to the ACCC. The undertakings 
are in relation to two main points: 
(i) A provision that, following the acquisition, OneSteel will demerge the Smorgon 
steel distribution businesses.  This proposal does not include the non-distribution 
businesses within the Smorgon distribution division, namely the pipe and tube 
manufacturing operations, some regional reinforcing businesses and the Smorgon 
Steel Colour Coaters business.  
(ii) A provision that provides for an assessment by an independent person of any steel 
anti-dumping application made by OneSteel (for a period of 3 years following the 
acquisition) having regard to certain criteria set out in the undertaking.  The 
assessment would be provided to the ACCC at least one month before any 
lodgement of a steel anti-dumping application made by OneSteel. 
7. The draft undertaking is available for viewing on the ACCC’s website. 
The parties 
 
8. OneSteel is a vertically integrated mining, steel manufacturing and metal products 
distribution company. OneSteel manufactures and distributes a range of long and 
tubular steel products including structurals, rail products, rod and bar, wire, pipe and 
tube, and reinforcing products. OneSteel's principal operations include: 
• an iron ore mine at Whyalla; 
• steelworks at Whyalla and Sydney; 
• steel rolling (rod and bar) mills at Newcastle and Sydney, and wire mills/rural 
products manufacturing facilities at Newcastle and Geelong; 
• pipe and tube mills at Sunshine and Somerton, Kwinana, Kembla Grange and 
Newcastle; 
• a steel reinforcing processing and distribution network (OneSteel Reinforcing); and 
• steel and aluminium products distribution businesses. 
9. OneSteel is listed on the Australian Stock Exchange. 
 
2


10. Smorgon is a vertically integrated manufacturer of long and tubular steel products, with 
metal scrap collection, steel manufacturing and metal products distribution divisions. 
Smorgon's principal operations include: 
• a scrap metal collection and processing business; 
• steelworks at Laverton (Victoria) and Waratah (New South Wales);  
• steel rolling (rod and bar) mills at Laverton and Waratah, and a wire mill at 
Laverton North (Victoria); 
• pipe and tube mills at Acacia Ridge (Queensland); 
• a grinding media business comprising manufacturing facilities at Newcastle, Kansas 
City (USA) and West Java (Indonesia); 
• a reinforcing business; and 
• a steel and aluminium products distribution business. 
11. Smorgon is listed on the Australian Stock Exchange. 
Market background 
 
12. Manufactured steel products can be broadly divided into three categories: 
(i) 
long products – including structurals, rails and sleepers, rod and bar, and wire; 
(ii) 
pipe and tube products – in Australia, these are cold-formed from steel coil and 
include structural pipe and rectangular hollow sections (RHS), oil and gas pipe 
(also known as linepipe), LiteSteel beams, precision tube and open profiles; and 
(iii) 
flat products – such as steel plates, sheet and coil (the major Australian 
manufacturer of flat products is BlueScope). 
13. These products can be processed further to produce other steel products.  For example, 
hot-rolled coil and cold-rolled coil are used to make pipe and tube products while bar is 
processed to manufacture grinding media and both rod and bar are processed to produce 
steel reinforcing products.  
14. Further fabrication, for example fabricating reinforcing mesh, also occurs. 
15. Steel products such as some of those mentioned above are also imported into Australia.  
16. In some cases (for example, large construction projects), long steel products are 
delivered directly from manufacturing or processing to the project. However, a 
substantial amount of products reach the customer through a range of fabrication or 
distribution channels.  
17. Steel distribution businesses supply long and tubular steel products to end customers. 
Typically, large volumes of steel products are shipped from manufacturing mills to 
large regional distribution points.  These regional centres may supply smaller 
distribution outlets which service local customers.  OneSteel and Smorgon both have 
long and tubular steel distribution businesses which compete with each other and other 
 
3


independent distribution businesses.  Some of these independent distribution businesses 
are supplied by OneSteel and Smorgon; others rely mainly on imported products. 
Market inquiries 
 
18. The ACCC has conducted market inquiries with a range of interested parties, including 
suppliers, customers and competitors of the merger parties. The ACCC notes that a 
number of market participants expressed significant concerns about the proposed 
acquisition. 
 
Areas of overlap of operations of OneSteel and Smorgon 
 
19. OneSteel and Smorgon consider that in several areas there is limited or no overlap 
between their respective entities.  
 
20. Smorgon does not produce the following products: 
 
• Wire rope; 
• Open profiles; 
• Oil and gas pipe; 
• Precision tube; and 
• Steel rail tracks and sleepers. 
21. In addition, there is no overlap between OneSteel and Smorgon for the supply of 
forged/cast products (rail wheels, rail axles, anode/cathode bars and engineering/forging 
products). 
22. OneSteel does not produce LiteSteel beams, while Smorgon does. LiteSteel beams are 
manufactured from hot-rolled coil and used in applications such as domestic 
construction and light commercial construction. 
23. The main areas of overlap submitted by OneSteel are: 
 
• One type of hot rolled structural – 150 Parallel Flange Channels; 
• Rod and bar, including: 
o Certain flats, angles, channels and rounds of merchant bar made to 
Australian Standard AS3798.1 Grade 1; sections in international engineering 
grade K 1045; 
o Reinforcing rod and bar sections manufactured to Australian Standard 
AS4671 Grade 500;  
o Bar sections used in the manufacture of roof bolts; and 
o Bar in sections suitable for grinding media; 
• Structural pipe and rectangular hollow sections (RHS) such as:  
 
4


o 20x20 to 250x250 RHS (manufactured to Australian Standard AS1163),  
o 20NB to 150NB CHS (manufactured to Australian Standard AS1074 or 
AS1163),  
o a range of shaped sections; and 
o specialised products such as silo sections and yard rail sections. 
• Wire (including bright and galvanised wire working, wire in concrete products and 
chainmesh, but not wire rope which Smorgon does not produce); and 
• Reinforcing products and accessories comprising processed and unprocessed 
reinforcing bar and mesh; a range of non-structural mesh; and mesh for mining 
applications. Manufactured to Australian Standard AS4671 Grade 500.  
24. In those areas where overlap occurs between OneSteel and Smorgon products, OneSteel 
argues primarily that the volume, price, frequency and reliability of imports would 
impose a competitive constraint on the conduct of the merged entity (i.e. on the 
combined OneSteel/Smorgon companies and businesses post merger).  For example, 
OneSteel has advised the ACCC that there are several steel mills in Asia and elsewhere 
that regularly supply the Australian industry with feedstock for long steel products and 
have established downstream processing and distribution operations in Australia.  
 
25. In addition OneSteel argues that there are, in each product category, actively 
competitive local buyers, processors and distributors able to source imported feedstock, 
semi-finished or finished independently, at prices, quality and quantity sufficient to 
constrain the merged entity on a sustainable basis.  
 
26. OneSteel also considers that the proposed undertakings (available at www.accc.gov.au) 
deal appropriately with the issues of competition in downstream distribution and with 
OneSteel providing the ACCC an appropriate opportunity to discuss any proposed anti-
dumping application before it is made, including as to it being a bona fide application.   
 
27. The ACCC invites comment (preferably supported by examples and quantitative data) 
by market participants on the above arguments both in general and in their responses to 
the specific concerns in relation to specific product categories and markets identified in 
this Statement of Issues.  
 
Statement of issues 
 
 
28. For the purpose of this Statement of Issues, the issues in this matter are divided into 
three categories: ‘issues of concern’, ‘issues that may raise concerns’ and ‘issues 
unlikely to pose concerns’. 
 
Issues of concern 
 
Reinforcing bar, rod and mesh 
 
29. The ACCC has formed the preliminary view that imports of steel reinforcing products 
may not be a competitive constraint on domestic steel reinforcing suppliers due to: 
 
5


 
• quality and service requirements; 
 
• longer lead times; 
• transport and storage costs; 
• difficulties gaining market acceptance of imported products; and 
• difficulties in getting imported products that meet the Australian Certification 
Authority for Reinforcing Steel (ACRS) standard which is said to be a de-facto 
industry pre-requisite for supply to many major projects and customers (e.g. 
government contractors and large construction companies). 
 
30. The ACCC is aware of firms who import steel reinforcing products which are said to be 
of a similar quality and standard to those produced by OneSteel and Smorgon.  The 
ACCC seeks market comment (supported by examples and quantitative data) 
addressing the arguments that the number of importing firms and the volumes that they 
currently import (or could import) either are or are not sufficient to pose a competitive 
constraint on the merged entity in reinforcing markets around Australia. 
 
31. In addition to concerns relating to the ability of imports to constrain the merged entity, 
the ACCC has concerns regarding the potential for downstream competition in 
reinforcing markets to suffer as a result of the proposed acquisition.  
 
32. Since the merged entity will be vertically integrated through all stages of steel 
reinforcing, it is likely to possess a significant advantage over its downstream 
reinforcing rivals as it will be both a supplier of reinforcing products and a competitor 
in providing reinforcing services.  This concern may be exacerbated given the concerns 
that exist with respect to the ability of imports of reinforcing products to act as a 
competitive constraint on the merged entity.  
 
33. In particular, the ACCC understands that the supply of reinforcing bar products is often 
specific to the requirements of particular construction projects and is accompanied by 
the provision of sophisticated reinforcing engineering services.  Such services rely on 
computer software programs and expertise in devising building and construction 
solutions and require significant investment of time and money in the recruitment, 
development and reputation of engineering expertise, the installation and acceptance of 
design systems and the continued adaptation of such systems and services to different 
products and projects.   
 
34. Both OneSteel and Smorgon have long established engineering services, expertise and 
systems such that the merged entity may have a significant advantage in its ability to 
tender for, win and service projects or contracts, over importers, smaller rivals (who 
may or may not use similar systems) and new entrants.   
 
35. On the other hand, the ACCC has been advised of a number of medium to large 
construction contracts won (in competition with OneSteel or Smorgon) by independent 
reinforcing businesses using imported product, including road, rail and building 
contracts.  In addition it may be possible for such importers or suppliers to acquire or 
 
6


team up with local engineering expertise to develop and deliver competitive support 
services.   
 
36. The ACCC invites comment and explanation as to whether or not the concerns in 
relation to reinforcing feedstock, products, imports and engineering services are 
warranted and, if so, whether or not the undertakings proposed by OneSteel in relation 
to distribution would be sufficient to remedy those concerns.  The proposed undertaking 
in relation to distribution is discussed further at paragraph 51 of this Statement of 
Issues.   
 
Grinding media for mineral extraction 
 
37. The ACCC has concerns in relation to the grinding media market.  Several parties have 
expressed concern that the merged entity would be both a major supplier of grinding 
media in Australia, and the only domestic manufacturer and supplier of steel bar, which 
is an important input into the manufacturing of grinding media.  The ACCC has 
concerns that this may result in an incentive for the merged entity in its capacity as the 
only domestic supplier of rod and bar, to disadvantage its downstream 
customer/competitors in the manufacturing of grinding media.  
 
38. In addition the ACCC seeks further comment on concerns that imports of bar for 
grinding media may not be an effective substitute for domestically produced bar due to 
inferior quality, longer lead times, lack of interest in the Australian market and 
unreliable access to supply.  The ACCC also understands that there are logistical 
difficulties in transporting grinding media due to their weight and shape.  On the other 
hand, the ACCC has been advised of instances where bar for grinding media of suitable 
quality has been imported from South Africa, Korea and China and there have been 
competitively priced imports of finished grinding media. 
 
39. Hence the ACCC seeks to resolve its concerns that imports of either bar for the 
manufacture of grinding media or finished grinding media products are unlikely to act 
as a competitive constraint on the supply of bar for grinding media or on the market for 
grinding media. 
 
Scrap metal 
 
40. The ACCC has concerns in relation to the acquisition and supply of scrap metal (in 
particular, cold ferrous feed) in New South Wales (NSW).  Several parties have 
expressed concerns that there will be a reduction in the number of purchasers of 
processed scrap from two (OneSteel and Smorgon) to one (the merged entity).  The 
ACCC has concerns that this will result in the merged entity having the capacity and 
incentive to exercise market power as the sole buyer of raw scrap as well as having the 
incentive to favour its own raw scrap collection operation (formerly owned by 
Smorgon) over other suppliers.  
 
41. The ACCC also notes that OneSteel is currently responsible for sourcing processed 
scrap metal on behalf of BlueScope, Tyco and Bradken in addition to OneSteel’s 
operations, through a bidding and sourcing mechanism commonly known as the ‘scrap 
pool’.  
 
 
7


42. The ACCC is concerned that the impact of the merger on the operation of the scrap pool 
is that sellers of processed scrap to the scrap pool may be foreclosed or disadvantaged 
because the only entity purchasing processed scrap will be the merged entity which will 
purchase on behalf of the scrap pool and its own operations (the combined OneSteel 
and Smorgon manufacturing and mills).  Similarly, the ACCC wishes to assess whether 
or not (and in what ways) some or all of the buyers of scrap metal from the pool might 
be disadvantaged by the merger.   
 
43. Further, the ACCC has concerns that exporting scrap may not be a viable alternative to 
selling processed scrap domestically in NSW.  The ACCC understands that scrap metal 
prices are benchmarked to export parity and, while processed scrap can be exported 
from most Australian states, there have been no or few exports of processed scrap from 
NSW because the relevant NSW port facilities are inoperative.  Hence suppliers of raw 
and processed scrap metal will have minimal bargaining power when dealing with the 
merged entity as a buyer of processed scrap or as manager of the scrap pool.  
 
44. The ACCC invites comment on whether or not the above concerns are warranted and on 
the likely effect on acquisition prices to, and supply prices from, the scrap pool post 
merger.  Specifically, the ACCC invites quantitative responses on how much scrap 
prices in NSW would have to fall to encourage suppliers of scrap metal to seek markets 
offshore. 
 
45. The ACCC would welcome views on whether or not, post merger, processors and 
sellers such as Sell & Parker or Sims, would be able to use or devise an alternative 
means to supply scrap metal, if dissatisfied with the operation of the scrap pool or by 
the conduct of scrap metal acquisition by the merged entity.  Additionally, the ACCC 
seeks views as to whether or not buyers from the scrap pool such as BlueScope, Tyco or 
Bradken would be able to exercise countervailing power or otherwise would be able to 
use or devise an alternative means to purchasing scrap metal, should they so choose. 
 
Steel distribution 
 
46. The ACCC has concerns in relation to steel distribution.  In particular, following the 
acquisition, the merged entity will be the largest manufacturer of rod and bar, pipe and 
tube, wire and reinforcing products in Australia and as a result, is likely to have the 
incentive and ability to favour its downstream distribution business over competing 
distribution businesses.  OneSteel have submitted that they will be competitively 
constrained in this regard by the supply of imports to independent distributors and 
directly to end customers.  
 
47. The ACCC is concerned that imports of rod and bar, pipe and tube, wire and reinforcing 
products do not cover the full range of products that are domestically produced and, in 
many cases, those products that are imported are said to be of inferior quality and not fit 
for the same purposes as domestically produced products.   
 
48. The ACCC also has concerns that the significant lag-time and logistical difficulties in 
sourcing imported product, coupled with the uncertainty with respect to continuity of 
supply, may significantly inhibit the ability of imports to act as a competitive constraint 
on the merged entity in terms of supply to third party distributors.  
 
 
8


49. The ACCC invites informed responses (preferably supported by quantitative data and 
analysis) that demonstrates that the range, quality issues, lead times and logistics of 
importing different long steel products either would or would not result in significant, 
ongoing restrictions that diminish the capacity of such imports to act as an effective 
competitive constraint on the merged entity.   
 
50. In addition, the ACCC seeks comment on the argument that many imported products  
(e.g. reinforcing rod and bar; structural pipe and tube) comply with European and other 
overseas industry standards and as such are eligible for import into Australia because 
they are able to comply thereby with Australian standards and customer requirements.  
 
51. Respondents to the above issues on distribution are encouraged to respond to the issues 
canvassed later in this Statement of Issues (at paragraph 82) in relation to the likelihood 
of portfolio effects whereby the merged entity may be capable of exercising market 
power or foreclosure across a range of long steel products through pricing, tying or 
bundling.   
 
Proposed Undertakings in relation to Distribution  
 
52. OneSteel has provided the ACCC with draft s87B undertakings which include a 
provision that, following the acquisition, OneSteel will demerge the Smorgon steel 
distribution businesses (see paragraph 6 above).  However the demerger proposal does 
not include the following manufacturing and processing divisions within the Smorgon 
distribution businesses: 
• pipe and tube manufacturing; 
• some regional reinforcing businesses; 
• Smorgon Steel Colour Coaters (formerly Australian Colour Coaters); and 
• LiteSteel beam manufacturing. 
 
53. OneSteel intends to retain these businesses, and will relocate them to its manufacturing, 
reinforcing and distribution divisions before the proposed demerger takes place. 
 
54. Market responses so far have identified significant concerns with regard to the likely 
ability and incentive (or lack thereof) of the demerged Smorgon Distribution business to 
source products and services from either imports or suppliers other than OneSteel, 
instead of being reliant on OneSteel as the major or only domestic supplier.  In addition, 
there are concerns that, post demerger, there will be strong incentives for the demerged 
Smorgon Distribution business to either not compete aggressively for customers and 
contracts; or to act in tandem with the OneSteel supply and distribution businesses in 
terms of product range, services, pricing, terms and conditions of supply or other forms 
of price and non-price competition in particular markets. 
 
55. The ACCC has formed a preliminary view that the provisions of the proposed 
undertaking relating to the demerger of Smorgon Distribution appear to be inadequate 
to alleviate the range of competition concerns identified in this Statement of Issues.  At 
this point of time the ACCC has not formed a view as to whether or not any alternative 
demerger or divestiture proposal would be sufficient or workable to address 
 
9


competition concerns but wishes to hear from the market on what has been so far 
proposed and what might be considered to address the concerns so far identified.   
 
56. Accordingly the ACCC seeks comment as to whether or not any form of structural or 
other measures in the proposed undertakings can be devised to address the competition 
concerns discussed above in relation to the proposed demerger or in relation to issues 
and concerns raised elsewhere in this Statement of Issues. 
 
Issues that may raise concerns 
 
General concerns regarding market structure and imports 
 
57. The ACCC considers that there is potential for concerns in relation to a range of 
markets arising from the degree and extent of concentration in manufacturing, 
processing and fabrication as a result of the merger and in light of high barriers to entry, 
limited access to domestic inputs (e.g. ore and scrap), long term supply arrangements 
and uncertainty, customer and project contracts, preferential supply to distributors, and 
the effect of vertical integration on the merged entity’s incentives as a supplier. 
 
58. In general, the ACCC considers that there is potential for concern in relation to the 
ability of imports to act as a competitive constraint on the merged entity in a range of 
markets. While the ACCC is aware that it is possible to import most types of steel 
products, information presented to the ACCC suggests that in many cases, these imports 
tend to be highly commoditised, often lower quality steel products, in contrast to a 
range of high grade and/or specialised products fit for certain end-use applications 
which can only be effectively sourced from domestic manufacturers.  The ACCC notes 
that this seems to reflect a high degree of discontinuity of supply and/or minimal 
technical and economic substitution in end-user demand.  The ACCC has concerns that 
in many cases, the only sources of steel products which are required for some purposes 
are either OneSteel or Smorgon and in future the only domestic source will be the 
merged entity. 
 
Concerns regarding anti-dumping actions 
 
59. Further, the ACCC considers that there is potential for concern in relation to the impact 
of anti-dumping applications on the ability of imports of steel to act as competitive 
constraints on the merged entity and, into the future, the merged entity.  In particular, 
the ACCC is cognisant of claims made by several interested parties that historically, 
anti-dumping applications have been targeted at the mills which were responsible for 
the export of products in competition with products made by OneSteel and Smorgon in 
Australia, while OneSteel and Smorgon have continued to import the same products 
from other mills or other countries which were not subject to the anti-dumping 
applications.  
 
60. In addition, market responses expressed concern that, post acquisition, the market share 
of the merged entity across many long steel product categories may mean that anti-
dumping applications by any domestic producer will require the support of OneSteel in 
order to meet Customs requirements that anti-dumping actions represent the overall 
industry view.  
 
 
10


61. The ACCC considers that the draft section 87B undertakings that OneSteel has offered 
in relation to future anti-dumping applications (see paragraph 6 above) are presently 
inadequate to alleviate market and competition concerns in relation to the ability of 
imports to act as a competitive constraint on the merged entity.  
 
62. In particular, the ACCC considers the following questions and issues to be important: 
 
(i) 
Will the requirement to obtain a view from the Adviser that the anti-dumping 
application is “bona fide and is not frivolous or vexatious” simply duplicate an 
assessment that Customs would make anyway in the course of considering an  
anti-dumping application and as such adds no greater disincentive (than would 
otherwise exist, absent the undertaking) for OneSteel to make frivolous or 
vexatious applications? 
(ii) 
Is it sufficient that the view of the Adviser is only based on information 
provided by OneSteel and on consultation with the ACCC, or should there be an 
opportunity for interested industry parties to comment on the merits of any 
application? 
(iii) 
The ACCC invites comment on whether or not a single expert assessing the 
merits of a proposed anti-dumping application is adequate.  What other sources 
of independent advice would be available to inform the ACCC’s consideration 
of a proposed application? 
(iv) 
The undertakings are unclear as to what action is open to the ACCC, should it 
not concur with the view of OneSteel and/or of the Adviser as to the merits of a 
proposed anti-dumping action.  The ACCC invites comment on what other 
measures may be required to ensure effective review of a proposed application.   
(v) 
The ACCC invites comment on whether or not, instead of the anti-dumping 
proposal in the proposed undertaking, it would be appropriate for the 
undertaking to include a moratorium on OneSteel making any anti-dumping 
applications for a certain period following the merger.  Please explain why you 
would support or not support this suggestion. 
(vi) 
It has been put to the ACCC that, as an alternative to any moratorium on 
OneSteel making anti-dumping applications, OneSteel give an undertaking that 
it will be required to indemnify targeted importers, mills and their customers 
against all loss and damage, including lost opportunity business disruption, in 
the event an anti-dumping application is unsuccessful.  The ACCC invites 
comment on the merits of this suggestion in light of the likely effect on import 
competition. 
 
63. In light of the above questions and issues, the ACCC seeks comment on whether or not 
the anti-dumping provisions of the undertakings could be made more effective in 
constraining the ability of the merged entity to hinder the entry of competitive imports, 
 
Current Anti-Dumping Application 
 
64. The ACCC is also aware of the anti-dumping action against products imported from 
China, Korea, Malaysia, Taiwan and Thailand (initiated on 29 March 2006 by 
OneSteel, Smorgon and Orrcon) currently being considered by Customs.  
 
 
11


65. The ACCC seeks comment on whether or not the proposed undertaking would have any 
impact on the current anti-dumping action relating to hollow structural sections (HSS).  
 
66. Market responses have advised the ACCC that Customs may be required to assess and 
decide on the current anti-dumping action on the basis of its historical background, 
irrespective of the proposed acquisition and undertakings.   
 
67. In addition, market responses consider that the application was made at a time when the 
industry structure which existed was one which would be significantly different to the 
structure that will prevail in the event that the merger proceeds.  There is strong market 
concern that, should the application be successful and the merger proceed, the ability of 
imports to act as a competitive constraint on the merged entity is likely to be inhibited.  
 
68. The ACCC seeks comment on whether or not the current application will be effectively 
covered by the undertakings proposed by OneSteel.  If not, what will be the likely effect 
of anti-dumping measures taken in response to the application (should it be successful) 
on the ability of imports from those countries to constrain the merged entity? 
 
Steel for mining applications 
 
69. The ACCC considers that there is potential for concerns in relation to the supply of 
steel (such as steel mesh and bar, and roof bolts) for mining applications.  The ACCC 
has received information which suggests that imports of steel for these purposes may 
not be a sustainable and competitive constraint on the merged entity due to longer lead 
times (versus job, batch and/or just-in-time exigencies) and limited availability of 
imports of special grades of steel and tailor-made products.   
 
70. In addition, it has been submitted that certain types of bar (e.g. debar) have Australian 
standards or industry requirements (e.g. 500 grade steel) which act as a barrier to 
imports of that product.  Conversely it has been submitted that both the domestic 
manufacturers and the end customers of steel for mining applications are either 
international companies or are able to access international markets for feedstock or 
finished products. 
 
71. The ACCC invites comment from market participants, the mining industry and 
suppliers of steel products to the mining industry as to whether or not the above 
concerns are likely to arise as a result of the merger and whether or not imports, 
alternative sources of supply and/or the countervailing power of end users would be 
able to constrain the merged entity.  
 
Pipe and tube 
 
72. The ACCC considers that there is potential for concerns in relation to steel pipe and 
tube, in particular with respect to HSS.   
 
73. The ACCC has received information which suggests that imports of HSS may not be a 
competitive constraint on domestic manufacturers of HSS (and specifically the merged 
entity) because the majority of imports of HSS are for non-structural applications which 
meet a different Australian Standard to the HSS used for structural applications.  For 
example, the Australian Standard or industry requirements for some structural sections 
 
12


(500 megapascals (or MPa)) is said to be different to structural standards for steel 
overseas (typically 460MPa), making the latter unsuitable for Australian requirements. 
 
74. The ACCC is also assessing the extent to which other structural long products are 
technically and economically substitutable for structural hollow products and would 
welcome any further information in this regard, especially on the extent to which the 
availability of such products might constrain the merged entity in its supply and pricing  
of structural sections. 
 
75. In addition, the ACCC wishes to receive further information on the following areas 
where concerns have been raised in specific end markets: 
 
(i) 
structural sections used in building and housing construction; 
(ii) 
sections used in machinery manufacturing eg 350-400 grade RHS; and  
(iii) 
the value and competitiveness of OneSteel and Smorgon brands (for example, 
DuraGal®, GalTube® and DualGrade® and the ability of generic or lesser 
known brands to compete with the brands to be owned by the merged entity.   
76. In addition, as noted earlier, the ACCC seeks comment on the argument that many 
imported products (e.g. reinforcing rod and bar; structural pipe and tube) comply with 
European and other overseas industry standards and as such are eligible for import into 
Australia because they are able to thereby comply with Australian standards and 
customer requirements.  
 
Wire products 
 
77. The ACCC considers that there is potential for concerns in relation to steel wire and 
wire products.  Several parties have expressed concern that imports of feed wire and 
wire products are not a competitive constraint on domestic suppliers of wire due to: 
• longer lead times; 
• variable quality; and  
• uncompetitive pricing.  
78. Issues have also been raised regarding the increased dependence of wire product 
manufacturers, fabricators, distributors and retailers on the merged entity as the 
dominant domestic supplier.   
 
79. In particular, concerns have been raised that Smorgon is a vigorous competitor in the 
supply of feed wire to manufacturers of wire products including wire fencing in terms 
of lead times, ordering systems and payment arrangements and that these advantages 
and the competitive tension between OneSteel and Smorgon may be lost post merger. 
 
80. OneSteel will also own two well-recognised brands (Waratah® and Cyclone®) possibly 
making it more difficult for other suppliers to establish or increase brand awareness and 
for distributors to access these brands separately should OneSteel bundle its offering. 
 
 
13


81. In addition, concerns have been raised that the merged entity will be vertically 
integrated into the supply of rural products made from wire, which could place it in a 
position to disadvantage its competitors in the supply of wire products to the retail 
sector by denying them supply or significantly raising prices of the key input. 
 
Issues that are unlikely to raise concerns 
 
82. The ACCC considers that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to raise competition 
concerns in relation to the supply of the following products, taken on their own: 
 
(i) 
Structural long products (such as beams) since Smorgon only produces one type 
of structural and only accounts for a very small share of the market (much 
smaller than the shares held by OneSteel and by imports).   
 
The ACCC notes that it is assessing the extent to which structural long products 
and structural sections are substitutable for one another (see paragraph 71 
above) and its findings in this respect may alter its view on this issue. 
 
(ii) 
Manufacturing rod and bar (i.e. rod and bar products excluding merchant bar, 
reinforcing rod and bar and bar for grinding media) since Smorgon only 
accounts for a very small share of the market (much smaller than the shares held 
by OneSteel and by imports). 
 
(iii) 
Steel rail tracks and sleepers.  The ACCC understands that Smorgon does not 
produce these products. 
 
(iv) 
Wire rope.  The ACCC understands that Smorgon does not produce this product. 
(v) 
Open profiles.  The ACCC understands that Smorgon does not produce this 
product. 
(vi) 
Oil and gas pipe.  The ACCC understands that Smorgon does not produce this 
product. 
(vii) 
Precision tube.  The ACCC understands that Smorgon does not produce this 
product.  
(viii) Bright bar.  The ACCC understands that Smorgon does not produce this 
product.  
(ix) 
Coil coating.  The ACCC understands that OneSteel does not produce this 
product. 
A further issue that may raise concerns - portfolio effects 
 
83. Several of the above products (as well as those products discussed earlier in this 
Statement of Issues) are complementary such that some customers including 
distributors and large end customers tend to purchase a range of products from the one 
supplier.  The proposed acquisition would result in an extension of the range of 
products offered by OneSteel, which may enable it to leverage any market power it has 
in one market to increase sales of other products it supplies, to the detriment of 
competitors and competition. 
 
14


 
84. Some market participants expressed concern that the merged entity would be the only 
supplier capable of supplying the full range and requirements of Australian long steel 
wholesale and retail customers both directly and through various distribution channels.  
Specifically, market participants have submitted that the merged entity would be able 
to: 
 
(i) 
Bid for major projects and supply contracts, on the basis of an enhanced balance 
sheet able to accommodate a greater range of product, project and financial risk 
and in the absence of Smorgon as a vigorous rival, in a way that other bidders, 
due to their relative size, are not able to match;  
(ii) 
Bundle together different products across a wide range of markets, far beyond 
the capacity of any other domestic producer or importer, to increase the 
incentives of customers to source all or most of their product from the merged 
entity;  
(iii) 
Offer products (along with incentives such as rebates) on a tied or exclusive 
basis, so customers buy OneSteel products that face competition, as a condition 
of purchasing premium ‘must have’ products or products solely made by 
OneSteel; 
(iv) 
Cross-subsidise or discount products and/or employ price discrimination 
strategically to undermine the value in any other competitor’s market offering 
and favour its own production or downstream processing and distribution;  
(v) 
In support of the above measures, enter into long term arrangements with key 
customers, sectors or major projects, such that potential domestic rivals or 
importers cannot secure ‘anchor’ customers to remain viable competitors.  
85. The ACCC invites comment on the future ability of OneSteel to bundle, tie or price its 
products in a way that forecloses customers and therefore raises rivals’ costs and/or 
increases the merged entity’s sales in particular markets, to the detriment of 
competition.  
 
Other products 
 
86. The ACCC is conscious that the markets for long steel products are diverse with a 
variety of suppliers and customers and is aware that the issues outlined in this Statement 
of Issues may not have identified all the issues of concerns held by different market 
participants.   
 
87. The ACCC invites information and comment from those market participants who 
consider that their concerns or views as to the merits of the merger (whether in support 
or not) have not been adequately or accurately been covered in this Statement of Issues.   
 
ACCC’s Future Steps 
 
88. The ACCC has not yet reached a view in relation to its assessment of the proposed 
merger. The ACCC will finalise its decision on this matter subsequent to considering 
the further market responses invited by this Statement of Issues. 
 
 
15


89. The ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on each of the issues that 
have been raised in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that may be relevant 
to the ACCC’s assessment of this matter. 
 
90. At this stage, the ACCC anticipates completing its further market inquiries by 23 
August 2006.  Submissions are to be received by the ACCC on or before that date.  The 
ACCC will consider the submissions received from market participants, including 
submissions from the parties to the proposed acquisition, in light of the concerns that 
have been identified and (in conjunction with information and submissions provided by 
all parties) make a final decision as to the appropriate course of action. 
 
91. The ACCC expects to make its final decision on 6 September 2006.  However, the 
indicative timeline may change in line with the Merger Review Process Guidelines. 
 
92. To kept abreast of possible changes in relation to timing and to find relevant 
documents, market participants should visit the ACCC’s website which contains the 
Mergers Register. To find the Mergers Register follow the link to “Public Registers” 
and then the link to “Mergers Register”.  
 
 
16
