1
Caplan, Annelise
Subject:
Salesforce / Slack - Market Inquiries Email - 11 March 2021
Dear interested party 
 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is an independent statutory authority 
responsible for investigating whether mergers are likely to substantially lessen competition. 
 
We are seeking your views on the proposed acquisition of Slack Technologies, Inc. (Slack) by salesforce.com, 
inc (Salesforce) (the proposed acquisition). Salesforce is a global supplier of CRM software solutions. Slack 
is an enterprise collaboration platform which allows users to engage in direct and group channel messaging. 
 
Amongst other things, we are seeking to understand: 
 
the availability of alternatives to Salesforce’s CRM solution, and how the alternative CRM supplier 
differs based on factors such as price, quality and features,  
 
the availability of alternatives to Slack’s enterprise collaboration, and how the alternative platform 
differs based on factors such as price, quality and features,  
 
the ability of Salesforce’s CRM customers and Slack’s customers to switch to alternatives (as 
applicable), 
 
if you are a Salesforce user, the importance of being able to integrate your application with various 
enterprise software collaboration platforms,  
 
if you are a Slack user, the importance of being able to integrate your application with various CRM 
solutions, and 
 
any other competition concerns relevant to the ACCC’s consideration of the proposed acquisition.  
 
We would be happy to receive your response by email, or have a discussion with you over the phone. 
 
Please also provide a brief description of your business, and the reasons for your interest in the proposed 
acquisition, including any commercial relationship/s with either of Salesforce or Slack. This will help us to 
better understand your views. 
 
This matter is public and you can forward this email to anybody who may be interested. 
 
If you would like to make a comment, please do so by 1 April 2021 by return email. Alternatively, email or call 
me on (03) 9910 9451, or call Stella Leung on (03) 9658 6444, if you prefer to set up a phone call to discuss. 
 
The ACCC will treat any comments confidentially, and will not publish submissions regarding the proposed 
acquisition. We will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) unless 
compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or during court proceedings) or in 
accordance with s155AAA of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to 
disclose confidential information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where possible so that you may have an 
opportunity to be heard. Therefore, if the information provided to the ACCC is of a confidential nature, please 
indicate as such. Our Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality.
 
If you have any questions, please let me know. 
 
Kind regards 
 
Annelise 
