Australian
Competition &
Consumer
Commission
19 April 2007
Statement of Issues — Drum Makers, a subsidiary of Visy
Steel Products - proposed acquisition of Greif Australia
1.
Outlined below is the Statement of Issues released by the Australian
Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) in relation to the proposed
acquisition (proposed acquisition) of Greif Australia Pty Ltd (Greif) by Drum
Makers Pty Ltd, a subsidiary of Visy Steel Products Pty Ltd which is a
subsidiary of Visy Industrial Packaging Holdings Pty Ltd (Visy).
2.
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC's preliminary views, drawing
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well
as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake.
3.
In accordance with the ACCC's Merger Review Process Guidelines, i the ACCC
has established a secondary timeline for further consideration of the competition
issues arising from the proposed acquisition. The ACCC anticipates completing
further market inquiries by 2 May 2007 with a proposed date for announcement
of the ACCC's decision of 17 May 2007. However, the anticipated timeline
can change in line with the Merger Review Process Guidelines. To keep abreast
of possible changes in relation to timing and to find relevant documents, market
participants should visit the Mergers Register on the ACCC's website at
www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister.
4.
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties
(including customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to
ascertain and consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also
intended to provide the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis
for making further submissions should they consider it necessary.
Background
5.
On 21 March 2007, Visy advised the ACCC of the public announcement of the
proposed acquisition.
I The ACCC's Merger Review Process Guidelines are available on the ACCC's website at
www.accc.gov.au


The parties
visy
6.
Visy manufactures and supplies a range of packaging products including steel
drums in 30 to 220 litre (L) capacities. Visy also manufactures and supplies
tinplate cans and pails (10 L to 25 L capacities), plastic drums (30 L to 220 L
capacities), pails (15 L to 20 L capacities), cubes (10 L to 25 L capacities), jerry
cans and other packaging products including bottles, jars, tubes, food trays and
closures (including plastic and tinplate caps and nozzles).
7.
Visy has two manufacturing operations for steel drums and other packaging
products in each of Queensland, New South Wales and Victoria, as well as
manufacturing operations in Western Australia and Tasmania.
8.
Visy also supplies reconditioning services for steel drums and intermediate bulk
containers (IBCs).
Greif
9.
Greif is a subsidiary of US-based Greif Inc, which is a manufacturer of
industrial packaging products and services in over 40 countries.
10.
In Australia, Greif manufactures and supplies a range of packaging products
including steel drums in 40 to 60 L and 200 to 220 L capacities. Greif also
supplies tinplate pails (10 to 30 L capacities) and plastic cubes (10 to 40 L
capacities), as well as some 205 L plastic drums.
11.
Greif has manufacturing operations for steel drums and other packaging
products in Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria and Perth. Greif also has a
large fleet of 1,000 L IBCs which it distributes in Australia.
Market inquiries
12.
On 21 March 2007 the ACCC commenced market inquiries regarding the
proposed acquisition. A range of interested parties provided responses,
including customers for packaging products, including new and reconditioned
steel drums and suppliers of packaging products.
Industry background
13.
Visy and Greif are major suppliers of industrial packaging products in Australia.
They are the only manufacturers and suppliers of new steel drums in Australia.
14.
The packaging industry in Australia supplies products for the packaging of a
very wide range of products, for example, chemicals, food products, agricultural
products and industrial products. There are a variety of packaging products
including:
2


n
large packaging products having a capacity over 60 L, including:
-
drums – usually made of steel or plastic. The most common sizes are
60 L, 100 L and 205 L;
IBCs – cube-shaped containers made of a flexible inner 'box'
(usually made of plastic) with a rigid external frame (for example, a
metal cage) which in turn is attached to a pallet. Storage capacities
range between 1,000 L and 2,000 L;
bulk bags – made of strengthened plastic with capacities between
1,000 L and 2,000 L; and
n
small packaging products including:
pails – open or closed head containers made of tin or plastic. Storage
capacities range from 10 L to 25 L;
-
cubes – cube-shaped plastic containers with capacities between 10 L
and 25 L; and
-
bag-in-a-box systems – consisting of a strong plastic bag seated
inside a cardboard box.
15.
Some packaging products including steel drums and IBCs can be reconditioned
to extend their product life. Reconditioning involves the cleaning, repair and
redecoration of used drums or IBCs, using washing facilities and thermal
oxidation treatment. This reconditioning process can occur on up to five to
seven occasions in the life cycle of a drum. There is therefore a pool of drums
in the industry that, to varying degrees, may be suitable for reconditioning.
16.
As well as storage volume and ability to be reconditioned, other product
features that vary among these different packaging products include their ability
to store dry and/or liquid products, store dangerous goods, display branding,
their weight and their storage characteristics (referred to as `stackability').
Statement of Issues
17.
For the purposes of this Statement of Issues, the competition issues are divided
into three categories, 'issues of concern', 'issues that may raise concerns' and
`issues unlikely to pose concerns'. The ACCC is inviting information from
interested parties in relation to all issues.
Issues of concern
Monopoly in the supply of new steel drums
18.
Based on market inquiries, the ACCC considers that the merged entity's
monopoly in the supply of new steel drums in Australia as a result of the
proposed acquisition could represent a significant threat to competition.
19.
Market inquiries indicated that despite general substitutability between various
types of industrial packaging, practical constraints mean that for a material level
of industrial packaging customers in Australia, there are limited or no effective
alternatives to the use of new steel drums.
3


20. These practical constraints include where:
n
products are considered dangerous such as some fuels, hazardous
chemicals and corrosive cleaning agents;
n
product integrity/cleanliness is considered paramount such as some food
products, solvent based paints and high value products;
n
product image including packaging consistency or aesthetics is paramount
such as in the case of retail sales where it may be necessary to supply
branded products and/or products or uniform sizes; and
n
end-customer preferences dictate the use of a particular type of packaging
and packaging customers in Australia have no option but to meet this
specification such as in supplying export markets or industries in which
particular safety standards apply.
21.
Market inquiries further indicated that new steel drum customers to which these
practical constraints apply may not purchase a sufficient volume of large
industrial packaging to have options with respect to sponsoring new entry to the
manufacturing of new steel drums in Australia, importing filled large industrial
packaging or exercising countervailing power against the merged entity with
respect to the supply of large industrial packaging.
22.
Accordingly, the ACCC is concerned that a material level of new steel drum
customers may be 'captive' to the merged entity such that the merged entity
may have the ability to increase prices and/or reduce the quality of steel drums
supplied to these customers.
23.
The ACCC invites further information and views as to whether:
n
new steel drum customers may be in a position to switch to alternative
packaging products for some or all of their packaging requirements in the
event of an increase in the price or reduction in quality of new steel drums;
n
the number of 'captive' customers would be likely to be material in terms
of either the value of steel drums purchased, the number of steel drums
purchased, the volume of litres packaged or any other relevant measure;
n
the merged entity would be likely to be able to identify 'captive' customers
so as to engage in price discrimination with respect to those customers;
n
price discrimination with respect to 'captive' customers would be likely to
be profitable for the merged entity; and
n
any price discrimination by the merged entity with respect to 'captive'
customers would be likely to be defeated by arbitrage opportunities it may
create for the resale of new steel drums (i.e. by taking advantage of the
price difference between steel drums supplied by the merged entity to
`captive' customers and other customers).
4


Issues that may raise concerns
24. Based on market inquiries, the ACCC considers that the following aspects of the
proposed acquisition may raise competition concerns:
n
Visy's principal competitor for the supply of industrial packaging products
in Australia and the only other supplier of a comprehensive range of
industrial packaging products, including new steel drums, would be
removed;
n
the merged entity may have the ability and incentive to significantly
foreclose competing steel drum reconditioners' access to used drums for
reconditioning; and
n
the merged entity may have the ability and incentive to bundle or tie a
portfolio of industrial packaging products including new steel drums,
thereby significantly foreclosing the ability of other suppliers to compete
in packaging markets.
Removal of principal competitor to Visy
25. The ACCC's market inquiries indicate that the proposed acquisition would
remove the principal source of competitive constraint to the supply of industrial
packaging products by Visy in that:
n
Visy and Greif are the only parties with the ability to offer a
comprehensive range of industrial packaging products and services
encompassing new steel drums and other industrial packaging products;
n
Visy and Greif are the only suppliers of steel drums and other packaging
products with the geographic coverage, by way of operations in several
Australian states, to service customers that contract on a national basis;
and
n
Visy and Grief are the only Australian based manufacturers and suppliers
of new steel drums.
26. The ACCC invites further information and views as to whether there would be
competitive constraints operating on the merged entity that would be sufficient
to ensure that the proposed acquisition does not give rise to a substantial
lessening of competition with respect to the supply of industrial packaging
products. These constraints may arise from:
n
remaining competitors with a more limited product range and/or
geographic coverage than the merged entity;
n
actual or potential imports of industrial packaging. In particular, the ACCC
is interested in whether:
packaging customers in Australia have the ability to viably import
unfilled new steel drums; and
5


-
the ability of packaging customers in Australia to import filled steel
drums may be limited to very large customers with global operations;
n
the threat of new entry or expansion to the supply of industrial packaging.
In particular, the ACCC is interested in whether:
entry or the threat of entry to the supply of industrial packaging
products other than new steel drums would be sufficient to impose an
effective competitive constraint on the merged entity;
the sales volume and growth in the use of new steel drums in Australia
would be sufficient to make new entry to the manufacture of new steel
drums viable;
new steel drum plant and equipment could be used for other
manufacturing applications;
expertise with respect to steel drum manufacturing could be easily
obtained; and
-
there would be a customer or combination of customers likely to
sponsor entry to the manufacture of new steel drums in Australia. This
would require consideration of the number of new steel drums
purchased by packaging customers and the proportion of their total
costs attributable to packaging relative to the scale required to make
entry to the manufacture of new steel drums viable; and
n
any countervailing power of industrial packaging customers including
arising from:
an ability to bypass the merged entity through the importation of filled
products or by sponsoring new entry; or
-
the use of procurement joint ventures by a combination of customers.
Ability and incentive to foreclose competition for reconditioned steel drums
27.
The merged entity's unique position as the only supplier of new steel drums
may provide it with the ability and incentive to foreclose competing steel drum
reconditioners' access to used steel drums for reconditioning.
28.
For example, the merged entity may supply new steel drum customers on the
condition that those customers:
n
also purchase reconditioning services from the merged entity (or do not
purchase reconditioning services from the merged entity's rivals);
n
accept some limit on their ability to resupply used drums, or particular
used drums, to a drum reconditioner other than the merged entity; or
6


n
accept the imposition of additional fees (including that any deposit paid
will not be refunded) if they do not return the drums, or particular used
drums, to the merged entity.
29.
These examples are a non-exhaustive account of the types of conduct that may
foreclose competition. Such conduct may be to the substantial detriment of
competition for the supply of industrial packaging in Australia including the
supply of reconditioned drums.
30.
The ACCC invites further information and views as to:
n
how steel drum customers dispose of used steel drums including any
arrangements with respect to disposal, entered into with steel drum
suppliers;
n
the size of the pool of used drums available for reconditioning, the product
life of drums comprising this pool and any practical limitations on the use
of particular used drums;
n
the extent to which customers presently purchase new steel drums and
reconditioning services from a single supplier;
n
customers' likely incentives to accept a bundle or tied offer of new steel
drums and reconditioning services from the merged entity, such as to
reduce transaction costs and secure discounts/rebates;
n
whether the imposition of unwanted conditions on the supply of new steel
drums would be likely to lead to a reduction in sales of new steel drums,
such that the conduct would not be profitable for the merged entity; and
n
the extent to which customers may be able to respond by threatening to
purchase other packaging products from competing suppliers, such that the
conduct would not be profitable for the merged entity.
Ability and incentive to bundle or tie a portfolio of packaging products
31.
The ACCC's market inquiries indicate that competition in industrial packaging
markets in Australia may be substantially reduced if the proposed acquisition
were to result in competitors to the merged entity being effectively foreclosed
from competing for a material proportion of industrial packaging demand. This
may arise from the merged entity's unique position as a supplier of a portfolio
of complementary packaging products including new steel drums.
32.
For example, the merged entity may have the ability and incentive to bundle or
tie (via conditional contractual terms) the supply of particular industrial
packaging products, including new steel drums, with a range of its other
industrial packaging products, to the substantial detriment of competition. Such
conditions may include either providing certain discounts/rebates on new steel
drums if a customer also purchases plastic industrial packing products or
refusing to supply new steel drums unless a customer also purchases plastic
industrial packaging products.
7


33.
Bundling or tying of particular industrial packaging products, including new
steel drums, with other industrial packaging products may significantly
foreclose competing packaging suppliers from winning customers, reduce their
ability to achieve scale economies and raise their costs.
34.
The ACCC invites further information and views as to the extent to which
customers:
n
presently purchase multiple industrial packaging products from a single
supplier;
n
are likely to have incentives to accept a bundle or tied offer of industrial
packaging products from the merged entity, such as to reduce transaction
costs and secure discounts/rebates; and
n
would have the ability to disaggregate their industrial packaging purchases
between multiple suppliers or source a comparable bundle of packaging
products from any alternative supplier.
Issues unlikely to pose concerns
35.
Based on market inquiries, the ACCC considers that the proposed acquisition is
unlikely to pose competition concerns in relation to the supply of closures
(including plastic and tinplate caps and nozzles) and small industrial packaging
products including (tinplate pails, plastic pails and plastic cubes).
36.
Nonetheless, the ACCC will accept further submissions from industry
participants and will further consider these product areas if it considers that such
an assessment is warranted.
ACCC's future steps
37.
The ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on each of the
issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that may be
relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter.
38.
Submissions are to be received by the ACCC no later than 2 May 2007. The
ACCC will consider the submissions received from the market and the merger
parties in light of the issues identified above and will, in conjunction with
information and submissions already provided by the parties, come to a final
view as to the appropriate course of action to take to resolve any competition
concerns that remain.
39.
The ACCC intends to publicly announce its decision in relation to the proposed
acquisition by 17 May 2007. However the anticipated timeline may change in
line with the Merger Review Process Guidelines. A Public Competition
Assessment for the purpose of explaining the ACCC's final view may be
published following the ACCC's public announcement.
8
