 
Public Competition Assessment 
6 July 2012 
AGL Energy Limited – proposed acquisition of Great Energy 
Alliance Corporation Pty Limited (owner of the Loy Yang A power 
station) 
Introduction 
1. 
On 24 May 2012, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission 
(ACCC) announced its decision not to oppose the proposed acquisition by AGL 
Energy Limited (AGL) of the remaining interest in Great Energy Alliance 
Corporation Pty Limited (GEAC) (the proposed acquisition). AGL already had 
a 32.54 per cent shareholding in GEAC. GEAC owns the Loy Yang Power 
business (LYP), owner of the Loy Yang A power station. The ACCC formed the 
view that the proposed acquisition was not likely to have the effect of 
substantially lessening competition in any market in contravention of section 50 
of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the Act). 
2. 
The ACCC formed its view on the basis of the information provided by the 
merger parties, information arising from its market inquiries and other information 
available to the ACCC and Australian Energy Regulator (AER). This Public 
Competition Assessment outlines the basis on which the ACCC has reached its 
decision on the proposed acquisition, subject to confidentiality considerations. 
Public Competition Assessment 
3. 
To provide an enhanced level of transparency and procedural fairness in its 
decision making process, the ACCC issues a Public Competition Assessment for 
all transaction proposals where: 
 a merger is opposed; 
 a merger is subject to enforceable undertakings; 
 the merger parties seek such disclosure; or 
 a merger is not opposed but raises important issues that the ACCC considers 
should be made public. 
4. 
This Public Competition Assessment has been issued because the proposed 
acquisition was not opposed by the ACCC but raised important issues that the 
ACCC considers should be made public.   
5. 
By issuing Public Competition Assessments, the ACCC aims to provide the 
public with a better understanding of the ACCC’s analysis of various markets 
and the associated merger and competition issues. It also alerts the public to 


AGL Energy Limited – proposed acquisition of Great Energy Alliance Corporation Pty Limited 
2 
circumstances where developments in particular markets have led, or are likely 
to lead, to changes in the ACCC’s assessment of competition conditions in those 
markets.  
6. 
Each Public Competition Assessment is specific to the particular transaction 
under review by the ACCC. While some transaction proposals may involve the 
same or related markets, it should not be assumed that the analysis and 
decision outlined in one Public Competition Assessment will be conclusive of the 
ACCC’s view in respect of other transaction proposals, as each matter will be 
considered on its own merits.  
7. 
Public Competition Assessments outline the ACCC’s principal reasons for 
forming views on a proposed acquisition at the time the decision was made. As 
such, Public Competition Assessments may not definitively identify and explain 
all issues that the ACCC considers arise from a proposed acquisition. Further, 
the ACCC’s decisions generally involve consideration of both non-confidential 
and confidential information provided by the merger parties and market 
participants. In order to maintain the confidentiality of particular information, 
Public Competition Assessments do not contain any confidential information or 
its sources. 
The parties 
AGL Energy Limited 
8. 
AGL is an energy company listed on the ASX. AGL has a range of retail and 
wholesale gas and electricity interests: 
 Victoria: Gas and electricity retail operations, the Somerton power station 
(registered capacity: 160 MW, summer capacity: 134 MW) (peaking plant), 
and hydro generation assets (~700 MW). Prior to the proposed acquisition, 
AGL already held a 32.54 per cent interest in the Loy Yang A power station 
through its shareholding in GEAC.  
 South Australia: Gas and electricity retail operations and the Torrens Island 
Power Station (TIPS) (registered capacity: 1,280 MW, summer capacity: 
1,252 MW). AGL is also involved in the development and operation of wind 
powered generation assets. 
 New South Wales: Gas and electricity retail operations, hydro generation 
assets and coal seam methane production and exploration interests. 
 Queensland: Gas and electricity retail operations, a 50 per cent interest in the 
Moranbah coal seam methane project and associated power station, and a 
50 per cent interest in the former Enertrade gas merchant business. 
Additionally, AGL has upstream gas interests. 
9. 
Most relevant to the proposed acquisition were AGL’s electricity retail operations, 
peaking plant and hydro generation assets in Victoria and TIPS in South 
Australia.  
10. AGL’s shares of generation capacity in the Victorian and South Australian 
regions of the National Electricity Market (NEM) (excluding wind energy, small-
scale renewable plants and regional interconnectors) prior to the proposed 
acquisition were as follows: 


AGL Energy Limited – proposed acquisition of Great Energy Alliance Corporation Pty Limited 
3 
 Victoria: ~8 per cent   
 South Australia: ~36 per cent 
 Victoria/South Australia: ~14 per cent   
11. AGL had a significant presence in electricity retailing in Victoria, with more than 
20% of residential and small business customers in Victoria and over 20% of 
overall retail load in Victoria in 2011.  
Loy Yang Power 
12. The Loy Yang Power Partnership manages the Loy Yang A power station in 
Victoria (registered capacity: 2,210 MW, summer capacity: 2,190 MW) and the 
adjacent brown coal open cut mine. 
13. Loy Yang A is the largest base load power station in the Victorian region of the 
NEM. LYP’s shares of generation capacity in the Victorian and South Australian 
regions of the NEM (excluding wind energy, small-scale renewable plants and 
regional interconnectors) are as follows: 
 Victoria: ~20 per cent   
 Victoria/South Australia: ~15 per cent   
14. The proposed acquisition would therefore lead both to the horizontal aggregation 
of generation assets and increased vertical integration between generation and 
retail markets. The ACCC considered the likely competitive effects of the 
proposed acquisition under these two broad headings. 
15. The Loy Yang Power Partnership is owned by GEAC. GEAC shareholders 
included AGL (~32.5 per cent), the Tokyo Electric Power Company, Inc. 
(TEPCO) (~32.5 per cent), Ratch Australia (~14 per cent), MTAA Super (~13 per 
cent), Westscheme (~5.7 per cent) and Statewide Super (~2.5 per cent). 
16. In 2003, AGL successfully sought a declaration from the Federal Court that the 
acquisition of an interest of up to 35 per cent of the Loy Yang A power station 
would not breach section 50 of the Act, subject to an undertaking given by AGL 
to the Federal Court. AGL also provided an undertaking to the ACCC under 
section 87B of the Act, which contained mechanical provisions to enable the 
ACCC to monitor compliance with the court undertaking. The Federal Court 
undertaking prevented AGL from acquiring more than a 35 per cent interest in 
the Loy Yang A power station and prevented it from being involved in the 
contracting, dispatch or bidding of electricity produced from the Loy Yang A 
power station. 
17. Due to these undertakings, Loy Yang Marketing Management Company Pty Ltd 
(LYMMCo), wholly owned by Loy Yang Marketing Holdings Pty Ltd, managed 
the contracting, marketing and dispatch of electricity from the Loy Yang A power 
station. LYMMCo was owned by the GEAC shareholders other than AGL. 


AGL Energy Limited – proposed acquisition of Great Energy Alliance Corporation Pty Limited 
4 
Industry background 
Electricity 
18. There are approximately 200 electricity generators of varying sizes operating in 
the NEM (excluding smaller imbedded generation). Generators are commonly 
characterised in terms of their capacity (which is the maximum amount of 
electricity that may be produced at a given time, usually measured in megawatts 
(MW)) and energy (which is the volume of electricity produced over a period of 
time, usually measured in megawatt hours (MWh) or gigawatt hours (GWh)). 
19. Electricity produced by generators is transported at high voltage on a 
transmission system which connects regions of the NEM. Distribution networks 
then carry electricity from points on the transmission networks and deliver it at 
lower voltages to consumers through electricity connections at residential and 
commercial locations. The AER regulates the revenue received by the owners of 
the transmission and distribution networks.  
20. Electricity retailers do not physically supply electricity to consumers. Rather, they 
pay for electricity consumed by their customers, including the transmission and 
distribution costs, and then bill their customers and provide them with related 
services. While most jurisdictions allow consumers to choose their energy 
retailer, jurisdictions other than Victoria apply some form of electricity retail price 
regulation.  
21. The NEM is the wholesale spot market through which generators and retailers 
trade electricity. The NEM is operated by the Australian Energy Market Operator 
(AEMO), which acts as an intermediary between generators and retailers. 
Retailers pay AEMO for electricity consumed by their customers and AEMO 
pays generators for electricity they supply. 
22. There are five regions of the NEM: Victoria, New South Wales, Queensland, 
South Australia and Tasmania, so a reference to a region of the NEM is 
equivalent to a reference to one of these states. These regions are physically 
linked by an interconnected transmission network (referred to as ‘regional 
interconnectors’). In 2007, the Snowy region of the NEM was abolished, and 
Snowy Hydro now has scheduled generation units with 2,112 MW total 
registered capacity in Victoria (summer capacity: 2,082 MW) and 2,246 MW total 
registered capacity in New South Wales (summer capacity: 2,564 MW).  
23. A spot price in each region of the NEM (referred to as the ‘regional reference 
price’) is calculated based on the bid of the most expensive generator required 
(‘dispatched’) to meet regional demand. The spot price may vary from region to 
region as a result of transmission losses incurred when electricity is transported 
across the network from where it is produced to where it is to be consumed and 
constraints experienced on interconnectors. Interconnector constraints, 
particularly when they influence the operation of interconnectors into a region, 
can lead to electricity prices for that region being set independently from the 
other adjoining regions of the NEM. 
Risk management in the NEM  
 
24. Wholesale spot electricity prices are volatile, reflecting varying demand levels 
and the availability and costs of different types of generation. However retailers 
generally offer fixed electricity rates to their customers, and are therefore 


AGL Energy Limited – proposed acquisition of Great Energy Alliance Corporation Pty Limited 
5 
exposed to the risk that the costs of purchasing wholesale electricity from the 
spot market will exceed the revenues they earn from their customers, described 
here as ‘price risk’.  
25. From the opposite perspective, generators also face a level of price risk, 
particularly since their financing and investment decisions may be based on 
projected spot prices which they anticipate will deliver an expected rate of return.  
26. Generators and retailers seek to manage risk associated with the wholesale 
electricity spot price volatility by entering into financial derivative contracts. 
These contracts are commonly known as ‘hedge contracts’ (for the purposes of 
describing the relevant markets, they are referred to as ‘financial (hedge) 
contracts’). There are two main types of hedge contracts: 
 Over-the-counter hedge contracts (OTCs) where two parties (typically a 
generator and a retailer) enter into a bilateral contract (either directly 
between the counterparties or assisted by a broker). OTCs may be in 
standard form or tailored to the particular needs of the parties. 
 Exchange traded hedge contracts (ETCs), also known as electricity futures 
products, which are traded on the Sydney Futures Exchange. 
27. In its simplest form, a hedge contract specifies an agreed ‘strike price’ and the 
counterparties will pay one another according to the difference between the spot 
price (i.e. the spot price in one region of the NEM) and the strike price. The two 
most common types of hedge contracts are swaps and caps: 
 Swaps: A generator sells a contract under which – in relation to an agreed 
volume of electricity – the generator must pay the retailer the difference 
between the spot price and the strike price during times that the spot price is 
higher than the strike price, and the retailer will pay the difference to the 
generator during times that the spot price is lower than the strike price. This 
means that a generator is effectively ‘committed’ to generate the contracted 
volume of electricity, unless it chooses to bear this spot price risk itself or 
enters into another swap to cover its liability. 
 Caps: A generator sells a contract under which – in relation to any electricity 
consumed by the retailers’ customers at a time when the actual spot price 
exceeds the strike price – the generator will pay the difference to the retailer. 
The retailer will pay a premium to reflect the fact that the generator would be 
foregoing revenue that it would otherwise receive when the spot price 
exceeds the strike price. 
28. As retailers have no choice as to the amount of electricity that they must 
purchase on the spot market on behalf of their customers – since there is no 
certainty as to the volume of electricity that will be consumed by a retailer’s end 
user customers in a given trading period – this means retailers are also exposed 
to the risk that their customers’ use may exceed the volumes covered by hedge 
contracts, described here as ‘volume risk’. 
29. Increasingly, generators and retailers are managing their price and volume risk 
by vertically integrating. The more that a party is vertically integrated, the less it 
will need to trade hedge contracts to manage this risk. Therefore the extent of 
vertical integration may have implications for other parties who need to enter into 
hedge contracts to manage their price and volume risk. 


AGL Energy Limited – proposed acquisition of Great Energy Alliance Corporation Pty Limited 
6 
ACCC review timeline 
30. The timeline of key events in this matter is as follows: 
ACCC review timeline 
Date 
Event 
24 February 
2012 
ACCC commenced review under the Merger Review Process Guidelines. 
16 March 2012 
Closing date for submissions from interested parties. 
3 April 2012 
ACCC requested further information from the merger parties. ACCC timeline 
suspended. 
26 April 2012 
ACCC received further information from the merger parties. ACCC timeline 
recommenced. 
9 May 2012 
Former proposed date for announcement of ACCC’s findings (17 May 2012) 
amended to allow merger parties to provide further information. 
24 May 2012 
ACCC announced it would not oppose the proposed acquisition. 
Market inquiries 
31. The ACCC conducted market inquiries with a range of industry participants, 
including competitors, prospective new entrants, customers, industry bodies, 
financial intermediaries and other interested parties. Submissions were sought in 
relation to the substantive competition issues. 
Market definition 
32. The ACCC considered the proposed acquisition in the context of markets for: 
 the wholesale supply of electricity in Victoria and in a combined Victoria and 
South Australia, in both cases taking into account interconnector flows; 
 the supply of financial (hedge) contracts under which payment is based on 
the regional reference price in Victoria; and 
 the retail supply of electricity in Victoria. 
Wholesale supply of electricity / supply of financial (hedge) contracts 
Product dimension 
33. In defining the relevant markets for the purposes of examining the proposed 
acquisition, the ACCC considered whether the wholesale supply of electricity 
and the supply of financial (hedge) contracts should be included in the same 
market. 
34. The ACCC considered that, from a demand and supply side perspective, 
financial (hedge) contracts are complementary to, rather than a substitute for, 
the wholesale supply of electricity. That is, financial (hedge) contracts are not 
contracts for the supply of physical electricity – they are a type of risk 
management instrument.  
35. While the ACCC is aware of instances in which generators or retailers may carry 
on business without financial (hedge) contracts in place, the ACCC took the view 


AGL Energy Limited – proposed acquisition of Great Energy Alliance Corporation Pty Limited 
7 
that financial (hedge) contracts are an essential input to sustainably participating, 
on a material scale, in the wholesale and retail electricity markets.  
36. Accordingly, the ACCC took the view that the supply of financial (hedge) 
contracts should not be considered to be in the same market as the wholesale 
supply of electricity, whilst recognising the close connection between the 
markets.  
Geographic dimension (wholesale supply of electricity) 
37. The ACCC did not consider it necessary to reach a definitive view on the scope 
of the geographic dimension of the relevant market for the wholesale supply of 
electricity. Either or both a Victorian or combined Victorian/South Australian 
market may be relevant. There are degrees of substitution and constraint within 
and between regions which make it relevant to consider both a narrow and a 
broader market. Regardless of the geographic dimension considered, the ACCC 
takes into account ‘imports’ of electricity via regional interconnectors in its 
assessment.  
38. The ACCC considers that the degree of competitive constraint resulting from 
electricity imported from another region of the NEM (i.e. another state) varies 
depending on the circumstances. For instance, electricity imports from 
generators in an adjoining region typically act as a very limited competitive 
constraint at times of high demand (and hence high prices) since this is when 
interconnectors between regions are more likely to have reached the limit of their 
capacity, preventing imports of electricity from that adjoining region. Moreover, 
the AER has observed that, due to the phenomenon of ‘disorderly bidding’ and 
intraregional transmission congestion, interconnector flows may actually be 
lower at times of high demand (and hence high prices) in a region. 
39. The ACCC therefore focussed on the potential competitive impact of the 
proposed acquisition in:  
 the Victorian region of the NEM, since this is where the Loy Yang A power 
station is located; and 
 a combination of the Victorian and South Australian regions of the NEM, 
since there is some correlation in demand patterns in these regions and AGL 
has significant generation assets in South Australia (TIPS). 
40. Having found that the proposed acquisition was not likely to result in a 
substantial lessening of competition on the basis of these geographic 
dimensions, it was unnecessary to consider the possibility that the geographic 
scope of the market might be broader. 
Geographic dimension (supply of financial (hedge) contracts) 
41. In relation to the supply of financial (hedge) contracts, the ACCC considered the 
proposed acquisition on the basis of a geographic dimension corresponding to 
the Victorian region of the NEM. The ACCC formed the view that this geographic 
dimension is appropriate having regard to the fact that payments under a 
financial (hedge) contract are based on differences between the strike price and 
the regional reference price in a particular region of the NEM. 


AGL Energy Limited – proposed acquisition of Great Energy Alliance Corporation Pty Limited 
8 
42. Market inquiries indicated that a retailer seeking to manage price risk associated 
with its customer load in one region of the NEM will very rarely (if ever) enter into 
a financial (hedge) contract under which payments are calculated by reference to 
the spot price in a different region of the NEM, since this is not an effective way 
to manage price risk. This primarily reflects the fact that at times of high demand 
in a NEM region (and hence a high regional reference price), there is often a 
significant divergence from the spot price in other NEM regions.  
43. Market inquiries indicated that, for similar reasons, a generator will rarely enter 
into a financial (hedge) contract under which payments are calculated by 
reference to the spot price in a region of the NEM in which it does not have 
generation assets with sufficient capacity available.  
44. Generators and retailers may participate in AEMO auctions for “inter-regional 
settlement residues” (IRSR). These residues arise because there is a surplus to 
AEMO when selling electricity across an interconnector and there is a difference 
between the regional reference prices on either side of the interconnector. When 
this occurs, generators in the exporting region are paid the lower price for the 
exported electricity but the retailer in the importing region pays for that electricity 
at the higher regional price. Settlement Residue Auctions (SRAs) allow market 
participants to bid for entitlements to a proportion of the total IRSR, which to 
some extent can mitigate the effects of price divergences between regions of the 
NEM. However, market inquiries indicated that SRAs are only used to a limited 
extent and do not provide sufficient protection such that they facilitate entering 
into financial (hedge) contracts under which payments are calculated by 
reference to the spot price in a different region of the NEM. IRSRs appear only 
able to be used in such a way by larger market participants that have operations 
in both of the relevant adjoining regions of the NEM. 
45. The ACCC therefore formed the view that the relevant geographic dimension in 
which to consider the impact of the proposed acquisition upon the supply of 
financial (hedge) contracts is the Victorian region of the NEM. 
Retail supply of electricity  
Product dimension 
46. Consistent with previous reviews, the ACCC considered it appropriate to assess 
the proposed acquisition in the context of the retail supply of electricity, rather 
than the combined retail supply of electricity and gas. 
47. The ACCC considers that the retail supply of electricity can be distinguished 
between two broad categories of customers, being: 
 residential and small business customers who typically consume up to 
160MWh of electricity per annum; and 
 industrial and commercial customers who typically consume in excess of 
160MWh of electricity per annum. 
48. Market inquiries suggested that the requirements of these categories of 
customers differ significantly, with a particular impact on the level and type of risk 
management required by retailers to service these categories of customers. 
Those differences mean that some retailers focus on only one category. For 
example, these differences include: 


AGL Energy Limited – proposed acquisition of Great Energy Alliance Corporation Pty Limited 
9 
 the volume of electricity supplied per customer – due to their more significant 
electricity requirements, commercial and industrial customers may negotiate 
arrangements with a retailer or establish a competitive tender process, 
whereas residential and small business customers will be offered a standard 
product and retailers seek to maximise the number of customers they have 
rather than target customers with greater electricity requirements; 
 customer management – due to the greater number of their customers, 
retailers supplying residential and small business customers generally need 
to expend a greater proportion of their revenue on customer service;  
 demand-side management – commercial and industrial customers may have 
the ability to reduce their level of demand or consumption, allowing a retailer 
to reduce its exposure to the spot price at times of high price; and 
 the levels of demand during the day – commercial and industrial customers’ 
use tends to be relatively steady during business hours, and therefore 
predictable, whereas residential customers’ consumption peaks in the 
morning and evening on weekdays and can vary much more on different 
days, particularly when there are very high or low temperatures. 
49. The ACCC did not consider it necessary to reach a definitive view on whether 
there was a single retail market or separate markets for these retail customer 
groups. The ACCC recognised that the competitive effects of the proposed 
acquisition may differ between retailers that primarily supply one of these 
customer groups, in particular, with regard to the risk management requirements 
of such retailers. 
Geographic dimension 
50. The ACCC observed that some electricity retailers operate across more than one 
NEM region. However, it is necessary for a retailer to also secure a number of 
inputs specific to a region. In particular, a retailer would need to acquire a retail 
licence and negotiate financial (hedge) contracts with generators located within 
that region. Therefore, a retailer of electricity in one region cannot switch its 
operations quickly and without significant investment to supply another region.     
51. In light of the above factors, the ACCC considered the competitive effects of the 
proposed acquisition in Victoria only, whilst recognising that competitive effects 
on a wider geographic basis may be relevant for other acquisitions.  
With and without test 
52. In assessing a merger or acquisition pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC 
must consider the effects of the transaction by comparing the likely competitive 
environment if the transaction proceeds (the “with” or “factual” position) to the 
likely competitive environment if the transaction does not proceed (the “without” 
or “counterfactual” position).  
53. In the absence of the proposed acquisition, the ACCC considered that the status 
quo was the relevant competitive environment against which to assess the 
proposed acquisition, i.e. it was likely that LYP would continue to operate as a 
standalone generator.  


AGL Energy Limited – proposed acquisition of Great Energy Alliance Corporation Pty Limited 
10 
54. In assessing the likely competitive environment without the transaction, the 
ACCC had regard to certain issues associated with the financial position and 
creditworthiness of LYP and the extent to which these issues may impact upon 
its ability to enter into appropriate risk management arrangements in the 
foreseeable future.  
55. The ACCC considered that, if the proposed acquisition did not proceed, there 
was a risk that LYP would be limited in its ability to enter into hedge contracts. 
The extent of such limitations was largely dependent on whether counterparties 
would be willing to enter into hedge contracts with LYP.  
56. The ACCC was not in a position to determine the precise impact of the financial 
position and creditworthiness of LYP upon its ability, in the absence of the 
proposed acquisition, to enter into hedge contracts in the foreseeable future. 
57. On balance, the ACCC took the view that LYP was likely to continue to face 
financial difficulties and therefore to face some level of constraint on its ability – 
but no impact on its incentive – to supply hedge contracts during the period over 
which the impacts of the acquisition were to be considered.  
58. In relation to the market for the wholesale supply of electricity, on the other hand, 
the ACCC considered that there was little prospect of LYP ceasing to generate 
and supply electricity due to its financial position and that it would continue to be 
an active participant in the market for the wholesale supply of electricity with or 
without the proposed acquisition. 
Competition analysis 
Horizontal aggregation of generation capacity  
59. The ACCC considered whether the aggregation of LYP’s generation capacity 
with AGL’s existing generation capacity which would result from the proposed 
acquisition would be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening 
competition in the market for the wholesale supply of electricity in Victoria or a 
combined Victoria and South Australia. 
Economic withholding 
60. It is relevant to set out in some detail the mechanism by which wholesale spot 
market prices are set in each region, and how individual generators can 
influence price by a strategy known as ‘economic withholding’. 
61. Generators offer their output for sale in the wholesale (spot) market by ‘bidding’ 
portions of their capacity into price categories known as price bands. Generators 
are dispatched on an economic basis (the least expensive generators are 
dispatched first) subject to transmission constraints and the “ramp rates” of 
generators (i.e. the speed with which they can raise/lower output). 
62. The maximum bid that a generator can submit is $12,500/MWh. Subject to 
certain regulatory rules, a generator is able to re-bid its capacity by shifting 
capacity from one price band to another. Different circumstances in the relevant 
regional wholesale market will create different incentives for how a generator 
might re-bid its capacity.  


AGL Energy Limited – proposed acquisition of Great Energy Alliance Corporation Pty Limited 
11 
63. The main way that generators can increase spot prices is to economically 
withhold output. This is done by withdrawing some of their generating capacity 
from lower price bands and submitting it into higher price bands. This is 
distinguished from ‘physical withholding’, where a generator removes capacity 
entirely from the market (for example, by announcing that several units are off-
line). A strategy to economically withhold capacity will usually occur at times of 
high demand, particularly when a generator must be dispatched to meet total 
market demand in a particular region. At such times, a generator would be in a 
position to materially influence prices in the relevant spot market. A generator’s 
ability to influence prices in this way will be greater when interregional 
interconnectors are constrained and adjoining regions are unable to ‘export’ 
additional electricity into the relevant region.  
64. A generator will only be successful in an economic withholding strategy if it is not 
subject to competitive pressure from other generators. If there is competitive 
pressure in the market, the generator faces the risk that the output it has 
withdrawn and bid at a high price will be replaced by the output of other 
generators at lower prices and as a result the spot price does not materially 
increase.  
65. In addition, a generator must have sufficient generation capacity available to 
engage in such a strategy. In particular, it will have a reduced incentive to 
engage in such a strategy to the extent that it needs to supply electricity to 
support its hedge contract commitments – i.e. it will not benefit from a high spot 
price to the extent that the spot price exceeds the strike prices under its hedge 
contracts as the generator must pay the counterparty the difference between the 
spot price and the strike price during times that the spot price is higher than the 
strike price. 
Generation capacity 
66. The ACCC noted that, post-acquisition, the generation capacity of the merged 
firm would increase as follows (excluding wind energy, small-scale renewable 
plants and regional interconnectors): 
 Victoria: AGL would increase its share of capacity from ~8 per cent to ~27 
per cent; 
 Victoria/South Australia: AGL would increase its share of capacity from ~14 
per cent to ~29 per cent. 
67. The ACCC recognised that market shares of the merger parties can be of less 
use in analysing the potential competitive impact of the proposed acquisition, 
since generators have different marginal costs and flexibility of output and their 
behaviour will depend on a range of factors, including the extent of their hedge 
contract commitments.  
68. In its analysis, the ACCC also took into account:  
 the role of regional interconnectors, noting that they often operate well below 
their nominal capacity during peak periods; 
 wind energy, noting the difficulties associated with predicting the level of 
output from wind plant; and 


AGL Energy Limited – proposed acquisition of Great Energy Alliance Corporation Pty Limited 
12 
 planned new generation capacity in Victoria and South Australia and the 
potential for construction to be brought forward in response to price signals in 
the NEM. AEMO provided the ACCC with relevant information on planned 
new generation. Given the lead times involved, the ACCC focussed on 
committed projects which have development approvals in place. 
69. The ACCC considered that, importantly, post-acquisition, there would remain at 
least five key participants in either Victoria or a combined Victoria/South 
Australia: AGL, TRUenergy, International Power, Snowy Hydro and Origin 
(currently expanding its generation capacity at the recently commissioned 
Mortlake plant). 
Contract position 
70. The ACCC considered the extent to which, following the proposed acquisition, 
AGL would be net ‘long’ in generation – i.e. would have available more 
generation capacity than would be required to support its retail load – and may 
therefore have an increased incentive to engage in economic withholding (as 
described above). The extent of any net long position following the proposed 
acquisition would primarily depend on the extent to which the capacity of AGL’s 
generation assets combined with the capacity of LYP would exceed the 
generation required to support its retail load. However, it would also depend on 
the extent to which AGL’s generation is effectively committed to third parties 
under hedge contracts (serving to reduce its long position) and, conversely, the 
extent to which AGL enters into hedge contracts with third parties to support its 
retail load (serving to increase its long position). 
71. The ACCC was able to forecast the net position of AGL in the period 
immediately following the proposed acquisition (if it were to proceed) based on 
the contract position of AGL and LYP prior to the proposed acquisition. However 
the ACCC recognised that the net position of AGL is subject to change at short 
notice and ultimately would depend on its commercial strategy both in the market 
for the supply of hedge contracts and in the market for the wholesale supply of 
electricity. AGL’s strategy would depend on a number of factors, including the 
forecast supply and demand conditions in the market. 
72. Due to confidentiality, the ACCC is not able to comment on the current net 
position of AGL or LYP. However, it is in the public domain that LYP has entered 
into a hedge contract directly with a major industrial consumer of electricity, 
Alcoa of Australia, which will effectively commit LYP to supply approximately 820 
MW of its generation capacity from 2016 which, with future expansion options, 
could represent more than half of LYP’s generation output.1  
Conclusion 
73. Taking into account the considerations described above, the ACCC used a 
range of modelling techniques to assist with identifying likely price impacts in the 
market for the wholesale supply of electricity in Victoria or a combined Victoria 
and South Australia.  
74. After reviewing all of the evidence available to it, the ACCC concluded on 
balance that the aggregation of generation capacity arising from the proposed 
acquisition would not be likely to substantially lessen competition in the market 
                                                 
1  
Alcoa of Australia Limited and Loy Yang Power, Joint Media Statement, 1 March 2010. 


AGL Energy Limited – proposed acquisition of Great Energy Alliance Corporation Pty Limited 
13 
for the wholesale supply of electricity in Victoria or in a combined Victoria and 
South Australia. A decisive factor in forming this view was the competitive 
constraints provided by existing players and the potential for investment in new 
generation – importantly, post-acquisition, there would remain at least five key 
participants in either Victoria or a combined Victoria/South Australia. In addition, 
the Alcoa contract will effectively commit a significant proportion of LYP’s 
generation capacity and therefore decrease AGL’s ability and incentive to 
engage in economic withholding from 2016. 
Vertical integration of generation and retail activities 
75. Given AGL’s significant presence in the retail supply of electricity in Victoria and 
relatively limited generation capacity in Victoria prior to the proposed acquisition, 
the proposed acquisition would result in increased vertical integration of AGL’s 
position in Victorian retail and wholesale electricity markets. In addition, the 
proposed acquisition would result in the removal of LYP as a stand-alone 
generator in Victoria. 
76. The ACCC considered the impact of this increased vertical integration on the 
supply of hedge contracts in Victoria. As a result of the balancing between AGL’s 
generation capacity and retail load, post-acquisition AGL would have a 
significantly greater ‘natural hedge’. Since generation assets benefit from high 
spot prices and a retail business benefits from low spot prices, having a 
balanced portfolio of generation capacity and retail load substantially reduces the 
overall level of price risk borne in the electricity wholesale supply market and 
therefore reduces the need to enter into hedge contracts with third parties. 
77. As a general proposition, to the extent that AGL would have a natural hedge 
following the proposed acquisition, this would – relative to LYP remaining as a 
stand-alone generator – reduce its need to purchase hedge contracts to cover its 
retail load and reduce its need to sell hedge contracts backed by LYP’s 
generation capacity. 
78. The ACCC therefore considered whether the proposed acquisition would have 
detrimental impacts on competition due to a reduction in liquidity in the financial 
(hedge) contract market. In particular, the ACCC considered whether the 
proposed acquisition was likely to impact on the availability of hedge contracts 
for non-vertically integrated third parties and any potential for the proposed 
acquisition to increase barriers to entry or expansion in the markets for 
wholesale or retail supply of electricity. 
Liquidity of financial (hedge) contract market 
79. The ACCC considered that, to a large extent, the proposed acquisition would 
result in AGL reducing the hedge contracts purchased from third parties to 
support its retail load and reducing the hedge contracts sold to third parties 
backed by LYP’s generation. This was likely to reduce the number of distinct 
possible counterparties to hedge contracts. The ACCC considered that this could 
reduce the overall liquidity of the financial (hedge) contract market, however the 
ACCC did not consider that this alone was likely to give rise to a substantial 
lessening of competition in the relevant markets. In particular, Snowy Hydro and 
International Power would continue to have significantly more generation 
capacity available than they required to support their retail load. 


AGL Energy Limited – proposed acquisition of Great Energy Alliance Corporation Pty Limited 
14 
80. The ACCC also considered specifically whether the reduced availability of AGL 
or the removal of LYP as a counterparty to hedge contracts could have a 
detrimental impact on competition. Such an impact would be based on the 
significance of hedge contracts provided by AGL or LYP to participants in 
wholesale and retail electricity markets and the extent to which this reduction or 
removal may increase barriers to entry or expansion in those markets.  
Barriers to entry (retail supply of electricity) 
81. The ACCC found that the key requirements for entering a retail electricity market 
are obtaining a retail licence, the ability to purchase hedge contracts that 
sufficiently manage price and volume risk, the financial capability to meet 
AEMO’s prudential requirements for participating in the NEM, and the 
establishment of marketing, customer service and billing capabilities.  
82. The ACCC considered whether the removal of LYP as a standalone generator in 
Victoria would be likely to significantly raise barriers to entry for new retail 
entrants into Victoria. 
LYP’s incentives to facilitate new entry and expansion in retail markets 
83. The ACCC noted that LYP was the only major generator in Victoria without a 
presence in retail markets. The ACCC considered that LYP was unlikely to 
become vertically integrated by expanding into retail activities so long as GEAC’s 
ownership structure remained as it was prior to the proposed acquisition, since 
AGL would not support such expansion.  
84. However, the ACCC noted that LYP remained independent of AGL in relation to 
its contracting, dispatch and bidding activities due to the undertakings AGL gave 
previously to the Federal Court and ACCC. Market inquiries indicated that those 
undertakings had been highly effective in this regard. In circumstances where 
LYP was not likely to establish a retail business, the ACCC therefore considered 
that LYP had the ability and incentive to promote new entry into electricity 
retailing and to support the expansion of retailers without their own generation 
assets (‘standalone retailers’), partly because this would serve to reduce the 
dependence of LYP on counterparties with their own generation. This incentive 
was considered likely to remain in the foreseeable future if the proposed 
acquisition did not proceed. 
85. By comparison, a generator with its own retail business (including AGL following 
the proposed acquisition) would have a reduced incentive to support new retail 
entry and expansion of the retail base of competing ‘standalone’ retailers since 
that would risk cannibalising its own retail business. 
86. The ACCC considered the extent to which standalone generators had supported 
– and would be likely to continue to support – new retail entry and expansion, 
including by providing customised hedge products to standalone retailers.  
Customised hedge products 
87. Customised hedge products enable the effective management of price and 
volume risk by having either or both of the following two attributes (which are not 
generally available through standard OTC contracts or ETCs): 


AGL Energy Limited – proposed acquisition of Great Energy Alliance Corporation Pty Limited 
15 
 Load following arrangement, where the generator bears all of the financial 
risk associated with fluctuations in the retailer’s customer load – for which a 
premium is paid by the retailer. The arrangement essentially shifts volume 
risk to the generator and requires the generator to manage this risk on behalf 
of the retailer. The volume hedged under a load following hedge is at a pre-
determined price, therefore removing spot price risk, and reflects the retailer’s 
actual customer loads during the period covered by the product. This 
provides the retailer with certainty when pricing its retail offering.  
 Reallocation arrangement, which reduces the retailer’s exposure to AEMO 
and therefore the level of prudential requirements that the retailer must 
satisfy. This is achieved by reducing the amount that the retailer must pay to 
AEMO for the supply of electricity by the amount that the generator would 
have paid the retailer under the hedge contract. 
88. Market inquiries indicated that:  
 customised hedge products have particularly supported new entry and 
expansion of standalone retailers with residential and small business 
customers in Victoria, by allowing them to effectively manage price and 
volume risk associated with their retail load until they achieve sufficient scale 
to be able to rely solely on standard OTC contracts and ETCs; 
 other retailers with residential and small business customers in Victoria have 
been less dependent on customised hedge contracts since they have existing 
businesses and therefore substantial capital backing, previous experience in 
electricity retailing and/or existing generation assets in Victoria. These 
retailers are described here as ‘large’ new entrants; and 
 due to different characteristics of commercial and industrial customers, 
customised hedge products are less critical for new entry and expansion of 
retailers targeting these customers. 
89. The ACCC considered that the removal of LYP as a standalone generator with 
the incentive to support new entry and expansion of standalone retailers would 
be likely to have some impact on the availability of customised hedge products 
for standalone retailers or the terms on which those products were offered to 
standalone retailers. The ACCC therefore considered that the proposed 
acquisition was likely to have some impact on barriers to entry and expansion for 
standalone retailers targeting residential and small business customers in 
Victoria. 
Retail supply of electricity to residential and small business customers 
90. Given the likely impact on barriers to entry and expansion for standalone 
retailers targeting residential and small business customers in Victoria, the 
ACCC considered whether such an impact was likely to result in a substantial 
lessening of competition in this market having regard to existing levels of 
competition and the range of competitors currently active in this market. 
91. The ACCC noted that there were 12 retailers supplying electricity to residential 
and small business customers in Victoria. In 2007, the AEMC found that 
competition in the Victorian retail market was effective and noted evidence of 


AGL Energy Limited – proposed acquisition of Great Energy Alliance Corporation Pty Limited 
16 
strong rivalry between retailers.2 More recently, in 2011, the Essential Services 
Commission of Victoria found that first tier retailers are pricing less aggressively 
than previously and that second tier electricity retailers are primarily the price 
leaders and discounters when supplying residential and small business 
customers.3   
92. The ACCC considered that several of the second tier retailers in Victoria were 
likely to be capable of adequately managing their price and volume risk using 
standard OTC contracts and ETCs. Accordingly, a significant number of second 
tier retailers were not considered to be dependent on customised hedge 
products to support their expansion. The ACCC also noted that new retail entry 
had occurred in Victoria by players relying on standard OTC and ETC hedge 
contracts. In this context, and given the continued threat of ‘large’ new entry, the 
ACCC considered that the proposed acquisition was not likely to result in a 
substantial lessening of competition in the electricity retail market in Victoria. 
Barriers to entry (wholesale supply of electricity) 
93. The ACCC recognised that the proposed acquisition may have had impacts not 
only on barriers to entry for retailers, but also for generators (i.e. in the market for 
the wholesale supply of electricity). The ACCC noted that, given the very 
significant investment required for new generation capacity, a key consideration 
for a market participant considering entry or expansion in the market for the 
wholesale supply of electricity is the likely future prices for the wholesale supply 
of electricity and strike prices in hedge contracts. In many cases, a party without 
significant retail operations will only build new generation with a supporting long-
term hedge contract in place.  
94. Given the number of retailers that would remain available as counterparties to 
hedge contracts following the proposed acquisition, and the associated volume 
of retail load that would not be subject to a natural hedge associated with 
vertically integrated participants, the ACCC did not consider that barriers to entry 
and expansion in the market for the wholesale supply of electricity were likely to 
be raised sufficiently by the proposed acquisition to give rise to a substantial 
lessening of competition in that market. 
Conclusion 
95. The ACCC formed the view on balance that the aggregation of AGL and LYP’s 
generation assets would not be likely to result in a substantial lessening of 
competition in markets for the wholesale supply of electricity due to competitive 
constraints provided by at least five key generators and the potential for 
investment in new generation. In addition, the Alcoa contract will effectively 
commit a significant proportion of LYP’s generation capacity and therefore 
decrease AGL’s ability and incentive to engage in economic withholding from 
2016. 
96. The ACCC formed the view that the increased vertical integration that would 
result from the proposed acquisition (and consequent ‘natural hedge’ of AGL’s 
generation and retail operations) would not be likely to have the effect of 
                                                 
2  
Australian Energy Market Commission, ‘Review of the Effectiveness of Competition in Electricity 
and Gas Retail Markets in Victoria’, 19 December 2007. 
3  
Essential Services Commission, ‘Victorian Retail Energy Market Overview, 2010-11’, December 
2011. 


AGL Energy Limited – proposed acquisition of Great Energy Alliance Corporation Pty Limited 
17 
substantially lessening competition in the relevant markets, having regard to 
existing levels of competition in generation and retailing in Victoria. In particular, 
Snowy Hydro and International Power would continue to have significantly more 
generation capacity available than they required to support their retail load. 
97. The ACCC formed the view that the removal of LYP as a standalone generator 
in Victoria was unlikely to result in a substantial lessening of competition in the 
retail market for supply of electricity in Victoria. Although LYP would not have the 
same incentive to support new retail entry and expansion following the proposed 
acquisition, the ACCC took into account the number of existing retailers in 
Victoria which do not depend on customised hedge products and the continued 
threat of ‘large’ new entry. 
98. On the basis of the above, the ACCC formed the view on balance that the 
proposed acquisition was not likely to substantially lessen competition in a 
relevant market and would therefore not contravene section 50 of the Act. 
Federal Court undertaking 
99. To proceed with the proposed acquisition of the remaining 67.46 per cent of 
GEAC, it was necessary for AGL to seek an order from the Federal Court 
discharging the undertaking which limited its economic interest in LYP to 35 per 
cent and its involvement in, and knowledge of, the dispatch and marketing 
activities of LYP.  
100. Following the ACCC’s decision not to oppose the proposed acquisition, AGL filed 
an application seeking this discharge. The application was heard on 30 May 
2012 and the undertaking was discharged, taking effect from 22 June 2012. The 
ACCC did not object to the making of this order. 
