 
Public Competition Assessment 
19 September 2011 
Experian Australia Credit Services Pty Ltd – proposed joint venture 
 
Introduction 
1. 
On 3 August 2011 the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission 
(ACCC) announced its decision not to oppose the acquisitions by Australia New 
Zealand Banking Group Ltd, Citigroup Pty Ltd, Commonwealth Bank of 
Australia, GE Capital Finance Pty Ltd, National Australia Investment Capital Ltd 
and Westpac Banking Corporation (collectively the Investors) of minority 
shareholdings in Experian Australia Credit Services Pty Ltd, via the 
establishment of a joint venture with QAS Pty Ltd (a subsidiary of Experian plc) 
(the proposed joint venture).    
2. 
The ACCC decided that the Investors’ proposed acquisitions would be unlikely to 
have the effect of substantially lessening competition in the national market for 
credit reporting services or any market for lending products and services in 
contravention of section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the Act). 
3. 
The ACCC made its decision on the basis of the information provided by the joint 
venture parties and information arising from its market inquiries. This Public 
Competition Assessment outlines the basis on which the ACCC has reached its 
decision on the proposed joint venture, subject to confidentiality considerations. 
Public Competition Assessment 
4. 
To provide an enhanced level of transparency and procedural fairness in its 
decision making process, the ACCC issues a Public Competition Assessment for 
all transaction proposals where: 
• 
an acquisition is opposed; 
• 
an acquisition is subject to enforceable undertakings; 
• 
the parties seek such disclosure; or 
• 
an acquisition is not opposed but raises important issues that the ACCC 
considers should be made public. 
5. 
This Public Competition Assessment has been issued because the formation of 
the proposed joint venture is considered to raise issues of interest to the public. 


 
-2- 
6. 
By issuing Public Competition Assessments, the ACCC aims to provide the 
public with a better understanding of its analysis of various markets and the 
associated merger and competition issues. It also alerts the public to 
circumstances where the ACCC’s assessment of the competition conditions in 
particular markets is changing, or likely to change.  
7. 
Each Public Competition Assessment is specific to the particular transaction 
under review by the ACCC. While some transaction proposals may involve the 
same or related markets, it should not be assumed that the analysis and decision 
outlined in one Public Competition Assessment will be conclusive of the ACCC’s 
view in respect of other transaction proposals, as each matter will be considered 
on its own merits.  
8. 
Public Competition Assessments outline the ACCC’s principal reasons for 
forming views on a proposed acquisition at the time the decision was made. As 
such Public Competition Assessments may not definitively identify and explain 
all issues that the ACCC considers arise from a proposed acquisition. Further, the 
ACCC’s decisions generally involve consideration of both non-confidential and 
confidential information provided by the parties and market participants. In order 
to maintain the confidentiality of particular information, Public Competition 
Assessments do not contain any confidential information or its sources. 
The parties 
Experian 
9. 
QAS Pty Ltd (Experian) is a wholly-owned Australian subsidiary of Experian 
plc, a global provider of credit reporting services listed on the London Stock 
Exchange and headquartered in Dublin, Ireland. For the year ended 21 March 
2011, Experian plc’s total revenue was approximately $4.23 billion.   
10. 
Experian operates three business divisions in Australia: 
• 
Experian Decision Analytics; 
• 
Experian Marketing Solutions; and 
• 
Global Product Development.  
11. 
Experian plc operates consumer credit reporting agencies in 15 countries and 
commercial credit reporting agencies in 12 countries. Experian plc does not offer 
consumer or commercial credit reporting services in Australia.  
 
The Investors 
 
12. 
The Investors are: 
• 
Australia New Zealand Banking Group Ltd (ANZ);  
• 
Citigroup Pty Ltd (Citigroup);  
• 
Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA);  


 
-3- 
• 
GE Capital Finance Pty Ltd (GE Capital); 
• 
National Australia Investment Capital Ltd (NAB); and  
• 
Westpac Banking Corporation (Westpac). 
 
13. 
The Investors each offer a wide range of financial services and products at retail, 
wholesale and commercial levels. The Investors are the largest providers of credit 
information to credit reporting agencies and the largest purchasers of credit 
reporting products and services from credit reporting agencies. 
  
The proposed joint venture 
14. 
The proposed joint venture intends to provide credit reporting services, including 
consumer and commercial credit reporting services, to financial institutions, 
credit unions and other credit providers. 
15. 
The proposed joint venture is to have the following shareholder structure: 
• 
Experian 76 per cent; and 
• 
the Investors 4 per cent each.  
16. 
The proposed joint venture’s Shareholders’ Agreement provides Experian with 
the right to appoint four Directors to the Board of the proposed joint venture. The 
Investors have the right to collectively appoint one Director.  
17. 
In addition, Experian has the right under the Shareholders’ Agreement to appoint 
the Managing Director and General Manager of the proposed joint venture and 
control day-to-day operations. 
18. 
While the ACCC’s review of this matter did not extend to approval or otherwise 
of the behavioural aspects of the proposed joint venture, the ACCC noted that the 
proposed joint venture will operate in accordance with a Shareholders’ 
Agreement which: 
• 
does not provide that the Investors will have preferential pricing, access or 
terms in respect of the proposed joint venture’s products and/or services 
simply by virtue of their Investor status; 
• 
imposes no restrictions on the Investors purchasing products and/or services 
from a competing credit reporting agency to the proposed joint venture;  
• 
imposes no restrictions on the Investors providing credit data to a competing 
credit reporting agency; 
• 
has no requirement that the Investors acquire credit reporting services from 
the proposed joint venture; 


 
-4- 
• 
places certain restrictions on the Investors relating to taking a majority 
shareholding in, becoming a partner in, or becoming a consultant to, a 
competing credit reporting agency for a period of four years from the launch 
of proposed joint venture, subject to various exceptions designed to permit 
the Investors to engage in their ordinary existing business activities; and 
• 
does not permit the Investors access to credit data provided to the proposed 
joint venture by other Investors or credit data provided by other credit 
reporting service providers (or other sources), other than as a customer in 
the ordinary course of business.  
Industry background 
19. 
In broad terms, credit reporting involves the collection of consumer and business 
credit risk information from a range of public and private sources and on-selling 
this information, usually as credit reports, to credit providers/lenders that are 
seeking to determine the credit worthiness of an individual or business.  
20. 
The provision of credit reports, particularly consumer reports, is often a highly 
automated process where within matter of seconds of a credit provider making an 
enquiry with an agency a report on the respective individual/business is sent 
back. Credit reports will tend to note a ‘credit score,’ which is designed to give 
the credit provider an indication of the individual/business’ ability to repay a line 
of credit.  
21. 
Credit reporting agencies, or bureaus as they are also known, obtain their credit 
information (which is then used to compile the credit reports) from a variety of 
public and private sources. In this Public Competition Assessment the term 
‘credit information’ refers to the following: 
• 
financial information supplied to the credit reporting agency on a regular 
basis, in particular, instances of default (default/credit data); 
• 
credit enquiry information, generated when consumers or businesses make 
enquiries or applications for credit and a credit check is performed by the 
credit reporting agency (enquiries data); 
• 
public records such as debt records and bankruptcy records held by a court; 
and 
• 
other information publicly available from government departments or 
agencies. 
22. 
Government sources of credit information, such as ASIC and the Land Title 
Offices, generally charge agencies for the provision of this information. 
However, in almost all cases credit providers furnish this information to agencies 
free of charge.  
 
 


 
-5- 
Comprehensive reporting 
23. 
The Privacy Act 1988 (Cth) (the Privacy Act) prescribes the types of personal 
information that can be supplied by credit providers and collected by credit 
reporting agencies. The permitted categories of credit information are currently 
limited to the following: 
• 
identification data (e.g. name, date of birth, driver’s licence number); 
• 
enquiries data (e.g. where a credit provider has sought a report from the 
credit reporting agency in connection with assessing an individual’s 
application for credit); and 
• 
negative default data (e.g. accounts 60 days past due, public records of 
bankruptcies).  
24. 
The Commonwealth Government is currently considering amendments to the 
Privacy Act to enable credit reporting agencies to collect comprehensive, or 
positive, credit information. The Senate Standing Committee on Finance and 
Public Administration is currently considering the Exposure Draft of the 
Australian Privacy Amendment Legislation – Credit Reporting, which proposes 
that the following positive information would be able to be provided to credit 
reporting agencies by credit providers: 
• 
the type of each active account held by a customer; 
• 
the date of opening of each account; 
• 
the date of closing of an account; 
• 
account limits over a two year period; and 
• 
credit repayment history over a two year period.  
25. 
The proposed amendments have broadly been welcomed by both credit reporting 
agencies and credit providers. The Committee on Finance and Public 
Administration is forecast to report on the exposure draft by 30 September 2011. 
Industry participants generally anticipate that comprehensive reporting may 
commence in the second half of 2012.  
26. 
Overseas experience indicates that the introduction of comprehensive reporting 
results in a significant expansion in industry size as credit providers acquire more 
products and services from credit reporting agencies due to the greater predictive 
value provided by the new types of available credit information.  
  


 
-6- 
ACCC timeframe 
27. 
The following table outlines the timeline of key events in this matter. 
Date 
Event 
06-May-2011 
20-May-2011 
 
27-May-2011 
27-May-2011 
 
02-Jun-2011 
 
08-Jun-2011 
 
14-Jun-2011 
 
 
 
21-Jun-2011 
 
29-Jun-2011 
 
12-Jul-2011 
 
03-Aug-2011 
ACCC commenced review under the Merger Review Process Guidelines. 
ACCC requested further information from the joint venture partners. 
ACCC timeline suspended. 
Closing date for submissions from interested parties. 
ACCC received further information from the joint venture partners. 
ACCC timeline recommenced. 
ACCC requested further information from the joint venture partners. 
ACCC timeline suspended. 
ACCC received further information from the joint venture partners. 
ACCC timeline recommenced. 
ACCC requested further information from the joint venture partners. 
Former proposed date for announcement of ACCC's findings of 30 June 
2011 amended to allow for further information to be provided by the joint 
venture partners. 
ACCC received further information from the joint venture partners. 
ACCC timeline recommenced. 
ACCC requested further information from the joint venture partners. 
ACCC timeline suspended. 
ACCC received further information from the joint venture partners. 
ACCC timeline recommenced. 
Announcement of the ACCC's findings. 
 
Market inquiries 
28. 
In addition to seeking submissions at the outset of its review, the ACCC 
conducted extensive market inquiries with a range of industry participants, 
including incumbent credit reporting agencies, credit providers, industry bodies 
and government authorities. In particular, the ACCC engaged with smaller 
lenders on the potential impact of the proposed joint venture in the markets for 
lending products and services.   
With/without test 
29. 
When undertaking an assessment pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC 
must consider the likely effects of a proposed transaction by comparing the likely 
competitive environment if the transaction proceeds (the “with” position) to the 
likely competitive environment if the transaction does not proceed (the “without” 
position). 
30. 
The ACCC considered that the likely competitive environment were the proposed 
joint venture to not proceed would be largely similar to the current situation, with 
Veda Advantage (Veda) operating as the major provider of credit reporting 
services. 


 
-7- 
31. 
The ACCC examined in detail whether, in the absence of the proposed joint 
venture, and therefore without the financial institutions’ equity participation, 
Experian plc would still establish a credit reporting agency in Australia in the 
foreseeable future. The ACCC found that this would be highly unlikely in light of 
its review of the parties’ internal documents and based on Experian plc’s 
experience overseas.  
32. 
Market inquiries indicated that obtaining a necessary critical mass of credit 
information to establish a viable and competitive database appears to be the most 
significant barrier faced by a new entrant to the credit reporting services industry. 
However, the ACCC considered that the Investors’ shareholdings would provide 
an incentive for the Investors to support the proposed joint venture and enable it 
to overcome this barrier through: 
• 
supplying credit information to the proposed joint venture in a timely 
manner and usable format; 
• 
investing in the necessary IT infrastructure and other administrative systems 
to facilitate the transfer of credit information and the receipt of credit 
reporting agency products and services; and 
• 
mitigating the risk that customers could use Experian’s entry to secure better 
prices and services from incumbents without making the necessary 
investments to use the new credit reporting agency.  
33. 
Some interested parties submitted that Experian could have addressed the above 
issues through bilateral arrangements, such as credit information supply or 
minimum purchase agreements. The ACCC considered that Experian would have 
been highly unlikely to have viewed bilateral arrangements with industry 
participants as providing a satisfactory basis upon which to enter, given its past 
experiences in other jurisdictions.  For example, in one case, Experian’s entry 
was used by customers as pricing leverage with incumbent agencies while 
customers failed to follow through on commitments to provide credit information 
to the new agency. 
 Market definition 
34. 
The ACCC considered the relevant markets for the purposes of examining 
proposed joint venture to be: 
• 
a national market for credit reporting services; and 
• 
various market(s) for lending products/services.  
 
 
 
 


 
-8- 
Credit reporting services 
35. 
The ACCC took the view that there is a national market for the provision of 
credit reporting services. The ACCC considered that this market  is distinct from 
the provision of credit, involving the collection of credit information from a 
variety of sources and the delivery of consolidated credit reports to credit 
providers.      
36. 
The ACCC noted that credit reporting agencies of the scope and size intended by 
the proposed joint venture offer a broad range of commercial, consumer and 
ancillary credit reporting services to credit providers. For example, Veda and Dun 
& Bradstreet (D&B), the two significant credit reporting agencies in Australia, 
offer consumer, commercial and ancillary credit reporting services to a wide 
range of credit providers.  
37. 
The ACCC understands that an agency that has established the IT infrastructure, 
systems and relationships with a wide range of credit providers would generally 
be in a position to offer commercial, consumer and ancillary credit reporting 
services.  
38. 
The ACCC also noted that the provision of these commercial, consumer and 
ancillary credit reporting services generally occurs on a national basis.  
Lending products and services 
39. 
One of the issues considered by the ACCC in relation to this matter was the 
ability and incentive of the Investors to use their position in the proposed joint 
venture to provide a competitive advantage in relation to their lending activities.   
Accordingly, the ACCC considered that markets for a range of lending products 
and services (such as credit cards, car loans, home loans, small business loans 
etc) may be relevant markets for the purposes of assessing the proposed joint 
venture. 
40. 
As the ACCC ultimately concluded that the proposed joint venture was unlikely 
to substantially lessen competition irrespective of the market definition adopted, 
it was not necessary to form a concluded view as to the product and geographic 
scope of markets for various lending products and services.  
Competition analysis 
Credit reporting services 
 
41. In undertaking its review of the proposed joint venture, the ACCC considered the 
potential impact of the proposed joint venture on the state of competition in the 
national market for the provision of credit reporting services.  
 


 
-9- 
42. The ACCC’s public review found that the market for credit reporting services is 
currently dominated to a large extent by Veda, especially in relation to consumer 
credit reporting, and that there is one other significant provider, D&B, which has a 
relatively small market share. Further, it appears that this lack of competition is 
reflected in pricing levels that are high in comparison to comparable overseas 
markets.   
 
43. The ACCC formed the view that the entry of the proposed joint venture would 
increase the number of significant credit reporting agencies from two to three and in 
doing so increase competition in a market that is currently highly concentrated. As 
a consequence of the increased competition, the ACCC considered that prices for 
credit reporting products/services would likely fall. 
  
44. Notwithstanding the above, the ACCC explored in detail the potential for the 
proposed joint venture to substantially lessen competition in the national market for 
credit reporting services through:  
 
• 
the potential for the proposed joint venture to raise barriers to entry and 
reduce the likelihood of entry;  
• 
the potential for the proposed joint venture to lead to the foreclosure of rival 
credit reporting agencies’ access to credit information;  
• 
the potential for the proposed joint venture to lead to the foreclosure of rival 
credit reporting agencies’ access to customers/distribution; and 
• 
the potential for the proposed joint venture to discriminate against 
customers other than the Investors. 
Barriers to entry and likelihood of entry 
45. 
The ACCC considered that the restrictions under the Shareholders’ Agreement on 
the Investors in some cases sponsoring new competitors to the proposed joint 
venture, and the perceived relationship between the Investors and the proposed 
joint venture, may constitute a strategic barrier to entry in the market for credit 
reporting services. In particular, a prospective new entrant may consider their 
ability to obtain the necessary credit information from the individual Investors 
would be impeded by virtue of the Investors’ participation in the proposed joint 
venture. 
46. 
However, the ACCC found that barriers to entry already appear to be high and 
are likely to remain high, with or without the proposed joint venture. The ACCC 
considered that it would be the introduction of a third agency, rather than the 
Investors’ shareholdings, that would limit the scope for any further new entry. 
47. 
Information provided by market participants indicated that one of the most 
significant barriers to entry to the market is the likely time that it would take to 
establish a historical database of the breadth and size to offer products and 
services that would be competitive with the incumbents.   


 
-10- 
48. 
Market inquiries suggested that the introduction of comprehensive reporting is 
likely to result in a temporary reduction in the asymmetry between incumbents 
and potential entrants in this regard. All credit reporting agencies established at 
the time or shortly after the introduction of comprehensive reporting would likely 
be able to collect the same comprehensive credit information at the same time, 
assuming the necessary arrangements are in place with credit providers. 
49. 
However, the ACCC considered that barriers would likely increase again as the 
agencies that are established at the time of the introduction of comprehensive 
reporting develop historical databases that contain this more predictive credit 
information. 
50. 
The ACCC also found that any other overseas credit reporting agency 
considering taking advantage of the temporary lowering of the barriers would 
have already been known to market participants in light of the significant lead 
times needed to establish a credit reporting agency. Market inquiries indicated 
that there is currently no significant overseas credit reporting service provider 
considering entry to Australia. 
51. 
Market inquiries and information reviewed by the ACCC strongly suggested that 
the likelihood of entry following the introduction of the proposed joint venture is 
small due to the market already having obtained a critical mass of agencies. In 
particular, this industry feedback suggested that there are economies of scale 
associated with the provision of credit reporting services such that a market the 
size of Australia is only likely to be able to support two to three significant credit 
reporting agencies, even with the anticipated market growth associated with 
comprehensive reporting. The ACCC noted that the United States and the United 
Kingdom have three significant credit reporting agencies, while Canada has only 
two significant agencies.  
Foreclosure of rival credit reporting agencies’ access to credit information  
52. 
The ACCC’s market inquiries indicated that credit information sourced from 
banks and other credit providers is a key input to the operation of a credit 
reporting agency, and its timely, accurate, complete and ongoing provision is 
critical to the competitiveness of such agencies. Further, industry feedback 
strongly suggested that in addition to being key providers of credit information by 
virtue of the very significant proportion of data provision accounted for by the 
Investors individually and collectively, the ongoing provision of credit 
information by the Investors would be especially valuable in the context of 
comprehensive reporting.   
53. 
The ACCC’s review found that such is the value and quantity of credit 
information held and produced by the Investors that were they to cease supplying 
credit information or in some manner supply less complete credit information to 
the incumbent agencies, then over time these agencies would not be able to offer 
competitive products comparable to the proposed joint venture.  


 
-11- 
54. 
The ACCC noted that the proposed joint venture arrangements do not expressly 
restrict the Investors from providing credit information to rival credit reporting 
agencies.  However, the ACCC’s review inquired as to whether the Investors 
would have significant economic or commercial incentives arising from vertical 
integration with a credit reporting agency that may lead to foreclosure of rival 
credit reporting agencies’ access to credit information, and how this may affect 
competition for the wider supply of credit reporting services.  Specifically, the 
issues which the ACCC considered included whether the Investors may have 
incentives to supply credit information to the proposed joint venture but to not 
supply such information to rival credit reporting agencies, or not to supply credit 
information in a timely, accurate or complete manner, or to provide it in another 
manner that diminishes its value or limits the ability of rival credit reporting 
agencies to compete effectively.   
55. 
The ACCC recognised that the proposed joint venture would introduce a new 
supplier of credit reporting services into the national market for credit reporting 
services.  The ACCC considered that the Investors are sponsoring the market 
entry of a new supplier in the context of significant dissatisfaction among some 
customers regarding current competition and pricing levels for credit reporting 
services in Australia.   
56. 
Further, the ACCC formed the view that the Investors are also motivated to 
sponsor Experian due to its parent company’s international experience in 
comprehensive reporting environments and their expectation that Experian is 
likely to bring significant expertise to the Australian industry that would be 
advantageous in the shift to comprehensive reporting, and ultimately assist them 
to reduce bad debt expenses.   
57. 
The ACCC determined that the principal incentive of each of the Investors in 
sponsoring new entry, and in their ongoing provision of credit information to 
credit reporting agencies, is to secure greater competition for credit reporting 
services in Australia, rather than to replace one dominant provider with another 
by withdrawing or restricting their provision of credit information to incumbent 
credit reporting agencies in a manner that would undermine incumbents’ 
databases and limit competition.   
58. 
The ACCC’s assessment in this regard was assisted by its review of the proposed 
joint venture parties’ internal documents. 
59. 
The ACCC therefore formed the view that the proposed joint venture was 
unlikely to result in foreclosure of rival credit reporting agencies’ access to credit 
information. As a consequence, the ACCC considered that customers would 
possess an ability to effectively bypass the proposed joint venture, such that the 
proposed joint venture is unlikely to substantially lessen competition in this 
regard.   
 
 
 


 
-12- 
Foreclosure of rival credit reporting agencies’ access to customers and distribution  
60. 
The ACCC noted that the proposed joint venture arrangements do not require the 
Investors to acquire any minimum volume of credit reporting services from the 
proposed joint venture and do not provide for the Investors to receive preferential 
terms and/or pricing other than as a customer in the ordinary course of the 
proposed joint venture’s operations.   
 
61. 
However, the ACCC’s review enquired as to whether the Investors may have 
economic or commercial incentives to acquire services from the proposed joint 
venture in a manner that would lead to foreclosure of rival credit reporting 
agencies’ access to customers and distribution.  Specifically, the ACCC 
considered whether the Investors may have incentives to purchase all, or almost 
all, of their credit reporting services from the proposed joint venture and whether 
alternative credit reporting agencies would potentially have sufficient actual or 
potential remaining customers to make their services viable. 
 
62. 
The ACCC recognised that the Investors are the largest consumers of credit 
reporting services.  They therefore have strong incentives to foster competition 
among their suppliers, rather than to utilise the proposed joint venture to the 
exclusion or near exclusion of rival credit reporting agencies.  The ACCC 
considered that these incentives are significant in comparison to the commercial 
gains to the Investors from maximising the financial returns on their relatively 
small investments in the proposed joint venture. Accordingly, incumbent 
agencies would be in a position to compete against the proposed joint venture to 
offer the most commercially attractive product and price offering to the Investors. 
The ACCC’s assessment in this regard was informed by its review of the 
proposed joint venture parties’ internal documents.  
 
63. 
The ACCC also noted that non-Investor customers collectively represent a 
significant proportion of demand in Australia and incumbent credit reporting 
agencies can continue to compete for their custom.  The ACCC’s market 
inquiries also indicated that the size of the market for credit reporting services 
would likely expand significantly following the introduction of comprehensive 
reporting, creating opportunities for incumbents and the proposed joint venture to 
compete vigorously and obtain market share.   
 
64. 
Finally, the ACCC considered that to the extent that incumbents such as Veda 
and D&B are likely to lose market share to the proposed joint venture, it will be 
attributable to competitive dynamics associated with the introduction of a new 
supplier to the relevant market, which is sponsored by the main customers and 
widely expected to lead to lower prices, rather than the result of the Investors’ 
minority interests in the proposed joint venture.   
65. 
Accordingly, the ACCC formed the view that the proposed joint venture is 
unlikely to substantially lessen competition through foreclosing rival credit 
reporting agencies’ access to customers and distribution. 


 
-13- 
Discrimination against customers other than the Investors 
66. 
While customers of credit reporting agencies are likely to receive varying prices 
and discounts depending on their purchasing volumes, the ACCC considered that 
it is unlikely that the proposed joint venture would discriminate against non-
Investor customers through limiting or refusing supply or supplying on 
discriminatory terms, such as pricing or service, merely by virtue of them not 
being shareholders in the proposed joint venture.   
67. 
Non-Investor customers collectively account for a significant proportion of 
demand for credit reporting services. Such attempted discrimination against these 
customers would not be in the interests of the proposed joint venture since it 
would result in lost sales and profits. Customers would have the ability to bypass 
the proposed joint venture and source credit reporting services from incumbent 
agencies that, as discussed above, would not be foreclosed from access to credit 
information or distribution as a result of the Investors’ equity participation in the 
proposed joint venture. Accordingly, non-Investor customers could respond to 
attempted discrimination by directing their custom to an alternative supplier/s.   
68. 
The ACCC also considered that such attempted discrimination would undermine 
the proposed joint venture’s ability to build and maintain a complete and reliable 
credit information database. Smaller credit providers are likely to possess 
customer information with significant predictive value in respect of the risk of 
default by an individual or business, and it would be contrary to the interests of 
the proposed joint venture to jeopardise or forego the provision of this credit 
information by relatively small, non-Investor customers through a strategy of 
discrimination.  While the Investors may account for a greater proportion of 
credit information in a comprehensive reporting environment, the credit 
information of non-Investor customers would remain an important input to the 
proposed joint venture’s database. 
69. 
Accordingly, the ACCC concluded that any attempted discrimination by the 
proposed joint venture against non-Investors, merely as a consequence of them 
not being shareholders in the proposed joint venture, would not be in the interests 
of the proposed joint venture. 
Conclusion –national market for the provision of credit reporting services  
70. 
For the reasons outlined above, the ACCC considered that the proposed joint 
venture would be unlikely to result in a substantial lessening of competition in the 
national market for the provision of credit reporting services. Rather, the entry of 
the proposed joint venture appears likely to increase competition, leading to 
lower prices and greater product innovation, in a market currently dominated by 
one provider.  
71. 
The ACCC formed the view that the structure of the proposed joint venture and 
the incentives faced by the Investors are such that it would be highly unlikely to 
foreclose rival agencies’ access to credit information, customers and distribution. 
Further, the ACCC concluded it appears unlikely that the proposed joint venture 
would discriminate against non-Investor customers.  


 
-14- 
Lending products and services 
72. 
The ACCC considered the potential for the proposed joint venture to substantially 
lessen competition in various markets for lending products and services.  
73. 
In particular, the ACCC examined whether the Investors would have the ability 
and incentive to leverage their position and commercial importance to the 
proposed joint venture to pursue a strategy of targeting rival providers of lending 
products and services in an anti-competitive manner.  
74. 
Some interested parties expressed concerns that the Investors, through the 
proposed joint venture, may undertake a strategy that would mitigate the potential 
benefits to smaller credit providers that would likely stem from the introduction 
of comprehensive reporting. Comprehensive reporting, through allowing the 
collection of more predictive credit information, may enable smaller lenders to 
compete more effectively in lending markets. Industry participants suggested that 
comprehensive reporting is likely to assist in reducing the information asymmetry 
between large lenders and small lenders, enabling relatively small credit 
providers to access comparative levels of information about an individual’s credit 
worthiness. 
75. 
As explored above, the ACCC considered that rival lenders would have options 
to bypass the proposed joint venture in the form of viable alternatives from rival 
agencies. As a consequence, the ACCC formed the view that the Investors would 
not have any increased ability to influence credit reporting agencies to 
discriminate against rival lenders.  
76. 
Moreover, the ACCC considered that the structure and position of Experian in the 
proposed joint venture would make any attempt to undertake a strategy of 
discrimination highly unlikely to succeed. The structure of the proposed joint 
venture ensures that control and day-to-day operational management of the 
proposed joint venture rests with Experian through the composition of the Board, 
appointment of senior management and other rights held by Experian.  
77. 
The ACCC’s review identified that any attempt to impose discrimination in terms 
of the quality and/or timing of the provision of credit reports to rival lenders 
would involve increased costs and inefficiencies for the proposed joint venture. 
The supply of credit reports to customers is generally a highly automated process 
in which reports are provided very quickly through established IT systems. The 
provision of inferior reports, or their provision in a less timely manner, would 
generally involve additional or different processes, inefficiencies and increased 
costs to the proposed joint venture.  
78. 
The ACCC formed the view that any benefit that the Investors may be able to 
direct towards the proposed joint venture, through higher sales or greater market 
share, would be highly unlikely to outweigh the costs of the discrimination 
strategy. In particular, the costs to the proposed joint venture would arise from 
lower sales to rival lenders, greater inefficiencies and higher costs, the potential 
to not receive credit information from rival lenders and international reputational 
damage to Experian plc. 


 
-15- 
79. 
Some interested parties drew the ACCC’s attention to overseas markets for credit 
reporting services, such as Mexico, where there is a dominant agency owned or 
partly owned by significant financial institutions in that country. The ACCC 
considered that these overseas examples are not comparable to the entry of the 
proposed joint venture in Australia.  
80. 
The ACCC formed the view that the examples in these jurisdictions are of 
significant financial institutions collectively owning outright, or the 
overwhelming majority of the relevant credit reporting agency. By contrast, the 
Investors would have minority shareholdings, whether individually or 
collectively, and would not have control over the proposed joint venture’s 
business activities.   
81. 
In addition, the ACCC noted that in the international examples cited by some 
interested parties there did not appear to be any significant empirical evidence 
concerning detrimental competitive outcomes in broader lending markets. 
82. 
The ACCC also assessed whether the proposed joint venture would result in spill-
over effects into other banking markets. The ACCC considered that it would be 
unlikely that the Investors’ equity participation in the proposed joint venture 
would itself facilitate any coordination in other markets in which the Investors are 
competitors.  
Conclusion – markets for lending products and services 
83. 
The ACCC considered that the proposed joint venture would be highly unlikely 
to result in a substantial lessening of competition in any market for lending 
products and services. The ACCC concluded that rival lenders to the Investors 
are likely to benefit from the proposed joint venture’s entry through lower prices 
and more innovative products, which would enable them to harness the 
competitive benefits from the introduction of comprehensive reporting. This 
conclusion is supported by the ACCC’s review of the Investors’ internal 
documents. 
Conclusion 
84. 
On the basis of the above the ACCC formed the view that the proposed joint 
venture would not be likely to result in a substantial lessening of competition in 
relation to the national market for the provision of credit reporting services or any 
market for the provision of lending products and services in contravention of 
section 50 of the Act. 
