 
 
 
11 March 2009 
 
Statement of Issues — A Gange Pty Ltd - proposed 
acquisition of West Suburban Taxis Pty Ltd 
1. 
Outlined below is the Statement of Issues released by the Australian Competition 
and Consumer Commission (ACCC) in relation to the proposed acquisition of 
West Suburban Taxis Pty Ltd by A Gange Pty Ltd (proposed acquisition).  
2. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well 
as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
3. 
In line with the ACCC’s Merger Review Process Guidelines (available on the 
ACCC’s website at www.accc.gov.au) the ACCC has established a secondary 
timeline for further consideration of the issues. The ACCC anticipates completing 
further market inquiries by 31 March 2009 and anticipates making a final 
decision on 15 April 2009. However, the anticipated timeline can change in line 
with the Merger Review Process Guidelines. To keep abreast of possible changes 
in relation to timing and to find relevant documents, market participants should 
visit the Mergers Register on the ACCC's website at 
www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
4. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 
Background 
5. 
On 27 January 2009, the ACCC commenced an informal review of A Gange Pty 
Ltd’s proposed acquisition of West Suburban Taxis Pty Ltd. 


A Gange Pty Ltd - proposed acquisition of West Suburban Taxis Pty Ltd 
 
2
The parties 
A Gange Pty Ltd 
6. 
Gange Corporation Australia Ltd is the parent company of four subsidiary 
business entities, all of which are involved in the Victorian taxi industry. These 
businesses are as follows: 
• A Gange Pty Ltd (Gange), the proposed acquirer, which holds 43 metropolitan 
Melbourne taxi licences; 
• Astoria Pty Ltd, which holds 62 metropolitan Melbourne taxi licences; 
• Littles Pty Ltd, which holds 10 metropolitan Melbourne taxi licences; and 
• Silver Top Taxi Service Ltd (Silver Top), which is an accredited primary taxi 
depot. Silver Top operates across metropolitan Melbourne but has traditionally 
focused on its operations in the CBD and inner suburbs. Silver Top’s interests 
include: 
o Silver Comm Pty Ltd, which is a wholly owned subsidiary. Silver Comm 
specialises in the provision of radio networks for taxis, along with the repair 
and maintenance of equipment for communication, EFTPOS and security 
cameras; and 
o Geelong Taxi Network, which is a 50:50 joint venture between Silver Top 
and Geelong Radio Cabs.  
7. 
Silver Top is the largest taxi depot in Melbourne in terms of the number of 
affiliated taxis. Silver Top has traditionally focused its operations in the CBD and 
the inner city suburbs.  
West Suburban Taxis Pty Ltd 
8. 
West Suburban Taxis Pty Ltd (WST) is an accredited primary taxi depot. WST is 
a relatively small depot, primarily servicing Melbourne’s western suburbs. WST 
is owned by a small number of shareholders, one-third of which operate taxis. 
Other industry participants 
Black Cabs 
 
9. 
The Black Cabs Combined Network (Black Cabs) is owned by the Cabcharge 
Group. 
10. 
Black Cabs trade as Yellow Cabs, 13CABS, Arrow Taxis, Embassy Taxis and 
North Suburban.  
11. 
Black Cabs is the second largest depot operating in the Melbourne metropolitan 
taxi zone. Black Cabs has traditionally focused on servicing the southern, eastern 
and outer northern suburbs of Melbourne. 


A Gange Pty Ltd - proposed acquisition of West Suburban Taxis Pty Ltd 
 
3
Platinum 
 
12. 
Platinum is a small accredited depot located in North Melbourne. Platinum 
received accreditation in November 2008. 
13. 
In addition to its small primary depot, Platinum operates a significant secondary 
network which includes taxis currently affiliated with Silver Top and Black Cabs. 
Secondary or ‘trunking’ networks allow drivers that receive direct bookings from 
customers to share these bookings with other drivers within the network if they 
are unavailable. 
14. 
Platinum is a niche operator that primarily services the corporate segment of the 
market.  
Summary 
15. 
Silver Top and Black Cabs are the dominant providers of primary taxi depot 
services in metropolitan Melbourne, accounting for the vast majority of the taxi 
fleet operating in this zone. WST is a smaller depot, with a particular focus on 
servicing the western suburbs, while Platinum are a smaller player, with a focus 
on servicing the corporate segment of the market. 
Market inquiries 
16. 
On 4 February 2008, the ACCC commenced market inquiries regarding the 
proposed acquisition. A range of interested parties provided responses, including 
competitor taxi depots, taxi operators and interested third parties. 
Areas of overlap and market definition 
17. 
Silver Top and WST overlap in the provision of taxi depot services to taxi 
operators and in the provision of passenger taxi services to the general public in 
the metropolitan Melbourne taxi zone. Both depots maintain a radio network to 
act as a booking agent for taxi operators, and provide telephone booking services 
to the general public on behalf of the taxi operators aligned with the depot. 
18. 
Consistent with the ACCC’s findings in previous matters, the ACCC considers 
that the relevant markets are: 
• the supply of pre-booked taxi services to the general public in the metropolitan 
Melbourne taxi zone; and 
• the supply of taxi depot services to taxi operators in the metropolitan Melbourne 
taxi zone. 
Statement of issues 
19. 
For the purposes of this Statement of Issues, the issues in this matter are divided 
into two categories, ‘issues that may raise concerns’ and ‘issues unlikely to pose 
concerns’. 


A Gange Pty Ltd - proposed acquisition of West Suburban Taxis Pty Ltd 
 
4
Issues that may raise concerns 
Removal of WST as a vigorous competitor  
20. 
Silver Top and WST are currently the first and third largest taxi depot providers 
in the Melbourne metropolitan taxi zone. The ACCC considers that the proposed 
acquisition by Gange of WST may have the potential to reduce competition for 
the supply of taxi services to the general public. 
21. 
In particular, the ACCC is of the view that the proposed acquisition may lead to a 
reduction in the quality of taxi services. The ACCC understands that Silver Top 
and WST currently compete for bookings within the Melbourne metropolitan taxi 
zone, predominantly in the western suburbs of Melbourne. Given that the fares 
paid by the general public are regulated, the current nature of competitive tension 
between depots in attracting jobs primarily relates to the quality of taxi services 
provided.  
22. 
The ACCC’s market inquiries have indicated that WST is a strong competitor in 
terms of the quality of its service offering.  
23. 
The ACCC invites further information and comments on this issue.  In particular, 
the ACCC seeks further information in relation to: 
• 
Competition between Silver Top and WST for the supply of pre-booked taxi 
services to the general public. The ACCC invites market participants to provide 
comment on, and preferably provide specific examples of, competition between 
Silver Top and WST in terms of quality of service or other dimensions of 
competition they may identify. These might include information and data on: 
o pick-up response times,  
o phone answering times,  
o cleanliness of taxis and driver courtesy,  
o driver knowledge of routes and destinations,  
o advertising, marketing and promotion, and 
o customer complaints. 
The ACCC invites consumers to make submissions on the above issues and 
whether they have switched between the two taxi companies due to differences in 
customer service. 
Reduction in potential competition from WST  
24. 
Information provided to the ACCC indicates that there are high barriers to entry 
for new taxi depots. While the capital costs of entry do not appear to be 
prohibitive, depots face the hurdle of needing to attract a ‘critical mass’ of 
affiliated operators in order to be able to service customer needs.  
25. 
A key difficulty in achieving this ‘critical mass’ is the difficulty in attracting 
drivers and operators during the initial period where customer goodwill is still 


A Gange Pty Ltd - proposed acquisition of West Suburban Taxis Pty Ltd 
 
5
being established and booking numbers are low. Other barriers to operators 
switching depots — the cost to the operator of having the taxi off the road while 
equipment/signage is changed, the cost of familiarising themselves with the new 
communications/dispatch equipment and, in some cases, the cost of forfeiting the 
bond held with the original depot — further decrease the likelihood that a new 
depot can attract a critical mass of taxi operators. 
26. 
The ACCC considers that in a market with such entry barriers, the removal of the 
third largest player may act to entrench the dominant position of Black Cabs and 
Silver Top, thereby reducing potential future competition for the supply of taxi 
services to the general public.  
27. 
The ACCC invites further information and comments on this issue.  In particular, 
the ACCC seeks further information in relation to: 
• 
Barriers to entry. The ACCC is interested in the likelihood of new entry on a 
scale capable of competing with the merged entity and Black Cabs. The ACCC 
seeks further information and evidence on the costs and barriers to entry for a new 
taxi depot provider, in particular: 
o the number of taxis required to achieve a ‘critical mass’ at a taxi depot, 
o whether the size and projected population growth of metropolitan 
Melbourne would be sufficient for a new taxi depot to be viable, 
o the likelihood that a depot could acquire a sufficient number of licences as a 
means to achieve ‘critical mass’, 
o the timeframes associated with establishing goodwill at a new taxi depot, 
o barriers to operators or drivers switching between depots, and 
o whether the removal of WST as an independent competitor increases the 
existing entry barriers in any way. 
• 
Reduction in potential competition from WST. The ACCC is interested in the 
extent to which the acquisition may remove a significant potential competitor to 
the two dominant network service providers — Silver Top and Black Cabs — 
going forward. In particular, the ACCC seeks the views of market participants on 
whether there are any barriers to WST expanding its operations to provide more 
extensive service coverage within the Melbourne metropolitan taxi zone. 
Issues unlikely to pose concerns 
28. 
The ACCC considers that the acquisition by Gange of WST is unlikely to pose 
competition concerns in the market for the supply of depot services to taxi 
operators in the Melbourne metropolitan taxi zone. Information provided to the 
ACCC indicated that there is limited competition between Silver Top and WST to 
attract operators.  


A Gange Pty Ltd - proposed acquisition of West Suburban Taxis Pty Ltd 
 
6
29. 
Nonetheless, the ACCC will accept further submissions from industry 
participants and will further consider possible competition concerns in this 
market if it considers that such an assessment is warranted.  
ACCC’s future steps 
30. 
The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers market responses 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
31. 
The ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on each of the issues 
identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that may be relevant 
to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. 
32. 
Submissions are to be received by the ACCC no later than 31 March 2009. The 
ACCC will consider the submissions received from the market and the merger 
parties in light of the issues identified above and will, in conjunction with 
information and submissions already provided by the parties, come to a final 
view as to the appropriate course of action to take to resolve any competition 
concerns that remain. 
33. 
The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 15 April 2009. 
However the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Merger Review 
Process Guidelines. A public Competition Assessment for the purpose of 
explaining the ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's public 
announcement. 
