Undertaking to the Australian Competition
and Consumer Commission
Given under section 87B of the Competition
and Consumer Act by
Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc


TABLEOFCONTENTS
Person giving the Undertaking
2 Jurisdiction
3 Background
4 Defined termsandinterpretation
5 Commencement andterminationofthis Undertaking
and cessation of ongoing obligations
6 DivestitureoftheAustralian siRNA Business, as partof
the Global Gene Modulation Remedy Package
7 DivestitureoftheAustralian CellCulture Business, as
part of the Global Cell Culture Remedy Package
Divestiture of the Australian Cell Culture Business and
the Australian siRNA Business to an Approved
Purchaser
9 Preservation offhe Australian CellCultureBusiness
40 Independent Management of the Australian CellCulture
Business
If Failure to divest the Australian Cell Culture Business
and/orthe Australian SIRNA Business within the
Divestiture Period
t2 Infomiation
13 DisclosureofUndertaking
14 Obligation toprocure
15 NODerogation
16 Costs
17 Notices
Schedule I Thermo FishefsAustralian subsidiaries
Confidential Schedule2 Australian Celloulture Business
Confidential Schedule 3 - EC Commitments - confidential
version
8
4
4
4
8
8
9
9
12
14
Schedule4
15
Dictionary
t7
18
20
20
21
21
21
24
26
29
30


I Dictionary
Interpretation
Confidential Schedule4 Dictionary
Schedule5 Proposed Purchaser NoticeForm
Schedule6 Independent Manager Appointment
2
30
33
35
36
37


t . f
Person giving the Undertaking
This Undertaking is given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission
(ACCC) by Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc on behalf of itself, its Australian subsidiaries as set
outin Schedule I of this Undertaking and any of its other Related Bodies Corporate
incorporated in Australia or having a presence in Australia (together referred to as Thermo
Fisher).
2
2. I
Jurisdiction
Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. submits to the jurisdiction of the Federal Court of Australia in
relation to this Undertaking.
Notwithstanding clause 47.2, unless and until Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. notifies the
AGCC in writing of the appointment of another person as its agent within Australia, Thermo
Fisher Scientific Inc. irrevocably appoints Thermo Fisher ScientificAustralia Ply Ltd (ACN
0583909,7) as its agentwithin Australia forthe purposes of any service of process in
relation to this Undertaking.
2.2
3 Background
The Parties and the Proposed Acquisition
3.1
On 15 April 2013 ThemIQ Fisher Scientific Inc. and Life Technologies Corporation
(together, the Parties) announced that they had signed a definitive agreement, under
which Thermo Fisher will acquire all of the shares of Life Technologies (Proposed
Acquisition).
The Parties are both active in the supply of life science instruments, reagents and
consumables. Their business activities are largely complementary. Whereas Thermo
Fisher generally focuses on the supply of analytical instruments, laboratory equipment and
consumables to a broad range of customers, Life Technologies' activities focus on the
supply of genetic analysis instruments and life science reagents, primarily to customers in
the research sector.
The Parties' global operations overlap to some extent in relation to the supply of products
within the molecular biology, protein biology, cell culture, transplant diagnostics testing,
particles, chromatography and fluorescent spectroscopy sectors.
3.4 The Parties have provided the ACCC with a submission in support of clearance of the
Proposed Acquisition in Australia. In addition, the Parties have submitted flings or
notifications in a number of other jurisdictions, namely New Zealand. the European Union,
the United States of America, Canada, Japan, Korea, China and Russia.
The AGCC'e review
3.5 On 20 September 20f3, the AGCC commenced its public review of the Proposed
Acquisition.
3.6 The AGCC undertook marketinquiries and considered information provided by the Parties,
industry participants and others, The purpose of the ACCC's inquiries was to assess
whether or notthe Proposed Acquisition would have the effect, or be likely to have the
"~"""""""""'""""""'"""""""""""""'.'...','...,..,."".."............"."",.....". I. ........"........... . ... .. '
page 14
3.2
3.3


effect, of substantially lessening competition in a market in Australia in contravention of
section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2070 (the Act).
The ACCC's competition concerns
The ACCC has concluded that, in the absence of the Undertaking, the Proposed
Acquisition would have the effect or be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening
competition in relation to the markets forthe supply of Australian and New Zealand
sourced processed foetal bovine serum (FBS), and forthe supply of siRNA (a specialised
product in the area of molecular biology that is used to effect gene silencing) to customers
in Australia.
In the area of FBS, the AGCC has concluded that in the absence of this Undertaking, the
Proposed Acquisition would enhance the ability and Incentive offhe merged entity to raise
prices forthe supply of FBS.
3.9
Each offhe Parties processes FBS inputs at theirrespeclive facilities in Australia in order
to sell processed FBS to end-customers (Thermo Fisherthrough the brand name HyClone,
and Life Technologies through the brand name Gibco). The AGCC considered that outside
of the Parties, there are limited alternative sources of supply of FBS, which is itself a
3.7
3.8
The AGCC concluded that the barriers to forward-integration into the supply of FBS are
high, and that the Parties would riot be constrained by the threat of new entry following the
Proposed Acquisition. Commercial relationships with resellers are importantin being able
to secure supply of FBS inputs, and these relationships are often built overlong periods of
time. Factors such as a reliable customer base and strong brand were also found to be
important in procuring supply of FBS inputs, and brand reputation Is also an important
factor in customers"batch testing" decisions.
3.11 In the area of siRNA, a gene modulation product, the AGCC was concerned that the
Parties' position in the supply of siRNA is underpinned by related patents which have only
been licensed to four suppliers, so that there may be limited competitive constraints on the
merged entity following the Proposed Acquisition. The ACCC was also concerned that
many alternative suppliers do not provide full'libraries' of gene modulation products and so
would only provide a marginal constraint on the Parties postthe Proposed Acquisition.
3.12 The AGCC considered that in the. absence of this Undertaking, the Proposed Acquisition
would further strengthen the Parties' existing positions as key suppliers of siRNA reagents,
and also may increase the merged entity's ability and incentive to raise the prices of these
products.
3.10
scarce resource.
The European Commission and the Federal Trade Commission
3.13 The European Commission (EC) has investigated the Proposed Acquisition. In order to
avoid delay in securing clearance from the EC, Thermo Fisher has proposed and the EC
has accepted a global divestiture of certain assets (Global Divestiture),
3.14 The Federal Trade Coinmissbn (FTC) in the United States of America is investigating the
Proposed Acquisition. In order to avoid delay in securing clearance from the FTC, Thermo
Fisher has also proposed the Global Divestiture to the FTC.
Global Cell Culture Remedy Package
pagej5


3.15 The Global Divestiture includes a divestiture of certain assets related to Thermo Fisher's
cell culture business, being its HyClone cell culture business, excluding single use
technologies (Global Cell Culture Remedy Package). The Global Cell Culture Remedy
Package is described at ExhibitAto Thermo Fisher's Commitments submitted 10the EC
(EC Commitments), which are set outin Schedule 3 of this Undertaking
3.16 Relevant to this Undertaking, the Global Divestiture also includes a divestiture of certain
assets related to Thermo Fisher's gene modulation business, including assets relating to its
siRNA business (Global Gene Modulation Remedy Package).
The EC Commitments will govern the process of the sale of assets that are the subject of
the Global Divestiture, including the handling of confidential information and regulatory
approvals.
3.18 The EC Commitments contain provisions including:
(a) acornmitmenttodivest;
(b) a provision to ensure preservation of the viabiny, marketability and competitiveness of
the businesses foming part of the Global Divestiture;
hold-separate obligations to keep the businesses forming part of the Global
Divestiture separate from the businesses Thermo Fisheris retaining. including
appointment of a hold separate manager;
ring fencing obligations to ensure that relevant confidential or proprietary information
related to the businesses forming part of the Global Divestiture is protected;
provisions related to the appointment and obligations of a monitoring trustee for
auditing purposes; and
^ provision for sale of the businesses forming part ofthe Global Divestiture at 00
minimum price by the Divestiture Trustee.
3.19 The EC Commitments will manage the process of the sale of the assets that are the
subject of the Global Divestiture, including handling of confidential information and
regulatory approvals forthose assets.
Proposed divestiture of Thermo Fisher's Australian CellCulture Business and Australian
siRNA Business, and approval of a purchaser of these businesses
3.20 Thermo Fisher does riot consider that the Proposed Acquisition would be likely to
substantially lessen competition in relation to the supply of Australian and New Zealand
sourced FBS to customers in Australia, the supply of siRNA to customers in Australia, or
any other relevant market. However, in order to address the AGCC's competition
concerns, Thermo Fisher has, without admission, provided this Undertaking pursuantto
section 87B of the Act.
3.21 The objective of this Undertaking is to address the AGCC's competition concerns which
would otherwise arise as a consequence of the Proposed Acquisition, by undertaking to
comply with the EC Commitments in relation to the Global Cell Culture and Gene
Modulation Remedy Packages, including elemenls listed in clause 3.18 above. Thermo
Fisher undertakes to divest the Australian Cell Culture Business and Australian siRNA
Business to a purchaser orpurohaseis to be approved by the ACCC.
3. ,7
(c)
(d)
(e)
page! 6


3.22 The Undertaking aims to achieve this objective by:
(a) ensuring that the Australian Cell Culture Business, as part of the Global Cell Culture
Remedy Package, is sold to an ACCC Approved Purchaser;
ensuring that the Australian siRNA Business, as part of the Global Gene Modulation
RemedyPackage. is sold to an AGCC Approved Purchaser;
(c) creating CTStrengthening a viable, effective, stand-alone, independent and long term
competitorforthe supply of Australian and New Zealand sourced FBS to customers in
Australia;
ensuring that the purchaser of the Australian CellCu!tore Business, a component of
the Global Cell Culture Remedy Package, has allthe necessary associated assets,
including Intellectual Property and Product Approvals, to compete effectiveIy with
Thermo Fisherin the supply of Australian and New Zealand sourced FBS to
customers in Australia;
ensuring that the purchaser of the Australian siRNA Business, a component of the
Global Gene Modulation Remedy Package, has arithe necessary associated assets
to compete effectiveIy with Thermo Fisherin the supply of SIRNA reagents to
customers in Australia;
maintaining the economic viabillty, marketability, competitiveness and goodwill of the
Australian Cell Culture Business and Australian siRNA Business priorto divestiture;
and
providing forthe effective oversight of Thermo Fisher's compliance with this
Undertaking.
The Australian Cell Culture Business
The Australian Cell Culture Business includes the HyClone sera facility located in
3.23
Mordialloc in Melbourne, Australia and its sera and media operations (the MDrdialloc
facility). The Mordialloc facility is used to process and manufacture Australian FBS and
includes supply chain and operations infrastructure. '
3.24 The Australian Cell Culture Business also indudes each of the following assets associated
with the Mordialloc facility, which are described in detail in Confidential Schedule 2:
(a) allintellectua! property, technologyand know-how:
i. The HyClone and HyQ brands will be divested subject to a limited licence back to
Thermo Fisherfora period of two years to use the HyClone and HyQ names for
the retained single use technologies (SUT) business;
(b) alldedicated seraand media manufacturing employees;
(0) allrelevantsupplychain;
(d) allinventory;
(b)
(d)
(e)
co
(9)
' The Mordiallocfadlity does riot have any medla operations.
page 17


(e)
to
allcustomer and supplier contracts;
all existing distributor/ dealer arrangements:
Thermo Fisher Scientific Australia Pty Ltd will, at the Approved Purchaser's
request, continue to provide the benefit of all current arrangements (on terms and
conditions equivalent to those at present unless otherwise agreed with the
Approved Purchaser) pursuantto which it currently provides distribution services to
the HyClone cell culture business for a transitional period of 12 months after
divestmeritin order to ensure the viability and competitiveness of the HyCtone cell
culture business; and
I.
(g) allleases.
Relationship between the Global Divestiture and this Undertaking
3.25 Nothing in the terms of the Global Divestiture will be taken to limit, or to excuse nori"
compliance with, the terms of this Undertaking.
4 Defined termsand interpretation
Definitions in the Dictionary
4.1 A term orexpresslon starting with a capital letter:
(a) which is defined in the Dictionary in Schedule 4 (Dictionary), has the meaning given to
it in the Dictionary; and
(b) which is defined in the Corporations Act, butts riot defined in the Dictionary, has the
meaninggiventoitintheCorporationsAct. '
Interpretation
The interpretation clause in Schedule 4 sets out rules of interpretation forthis Undertaking.
4.2
Commencement and termination of this Undertaking and
cessation of ongoing obligations
Commencement
5
5.1 This Undertaking comes into effectwhen:
(a) the Undertaking is executed by Thermo Fisher; and
(by the Undertaking so executed is accepted by the ACCC.
(the Commencement Date).
page I a


Termination
5.2 This Undertaking will terminate on the date:
(a) the ACCC confirms to Thermo Fisherin writing that it is satisfied that the obligations in
clauses 6 to 9 (and Schedule 3 as applicable) as relevant have been satisfied; or
(b)
any earlier date on which the AGCC consents in wrtting to the withdrawal of the
Undertaking in accordance with section 87B offhe Act.
Cessation of ongoing obligations
5.3 This Undertaking is taken to be withdrawn on the date the ACCC consents in wrttin to the
withdrawal of this Undertaking in accordance with section 87B of the Act.
5.4 The ACCC may, at any time, expressly waive in writing any of the obligations contained in
this Undertaking or amend the date by which any such obligation is to be satisfied.
The ACCC may, at any time, revoke its acceptance onhis Undertaking ifthe AGCC
becomes aware that any information provided to it was materialIy incorrect, inaccurate or
misleading,
5.6 Clauses I, 2, 3, 4, 5, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, and 17 survive completion of the obligations in
clauses 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11. and Schedule 3.
5.5
6 Divestiture of the Australian siRNA Business, as part of the
Global Gene Modulation Remedy Package
EC Commitments
6.1 Thermo Fisher must comply with the EC Commitments (as amended from time to time and
approved by the EC) as they relate to the divestiture of the Australian siRNA Business. The
EC Commitments will be interpreted in accordance with the applicable laws of the
European Union.
Divestiture onlyto an Approved Purchaser
6.2
Thermo Fisher must, within the Divestiture Period and in accordance with this Undertaking.
divest, or cause the divestiture offhe Australian siRNA Business only to an Approved
Purchaser.
6.3 The Approved Purchaser must be approved by the AGCC in accordance with clause 8 of
this Undertaking.
7
Divestiture of the Australian Cell Culture Business, as part
of the Global Cell Culture Remedy Package
Thermo Fisher must comply with the EC Commitments (as amended from time to time and
approved by the EC) as they relate to the divestiture offhe Australian Cell Culture
Business. The EC Commitments will be interpreted in accordance with the applicable laws
of the European Union.
7. I
page I '


Thermo Fisher must, within the Divestiture Period and in accordance with this Undertaking,
divest, or cause the divestiture of the Australian Cell Culture Business only to an Approved
Purchaser,
7.3 The Approved Purchaser must be approved by the AGCC in accordance with clause 8 of
this Undertaking.
7.4 Thermo Fisher must divest the Australian Cell Culture Business on terms which include:
(a) the sale, assignment, transfer or licence, to the Approved Purchaser of all assets that
comprise the Australian Cell Culture Business as described in Schedule 2 of this
Undertaking, including the Material Contracts pursuantto the Approved Sale and
Purchase Agreement and within the Divestiture Period, otherwise clause 11 applies;
(b) the transfer of any Transferred Personnelrequired pursuant to clauses 7.5 and 7.6;
(c) compliance with anyApproved Interim Supply Agreement required pursuantto
clauses 7.7 to 7.9; and
the transfer or grantto the Approved Purchaser of all Third Party Consents pursuant
to clauses 7.10 to 7.14.
Transferred Personnel
7.5
Nthe option of the Approved Purchaser, Thermo Fisher must transfer to the Approved
Purchaser, effective on the date of the Cell Culture Divestiture Completion Date those
personnelreferred to in the EC Commitments in Schedule 3 as partofthe Global Cell
Culture Remedy Package, and who are, in the view of the Approved Purchaser, necessary
forthe Approved Purchaser to maintain, operate or conduct effectiveIy the Australian Cell
Culture Business and who consent to the transfer of their employment or contractfor
service to the Approved Purchaser (Transferred Personnel).
7.6 When fulfilling its obligations under clause 7.5, Thermo Fisher must:
(a) riot directly or indirectly discourage anyTransferred Personnelfrom continuing or
seeking employment with, or providing services to, the Approved Purchaser;
(b) effective on the Cell Culture Divestiture Completion Date, release the Transferred
Personnelfrom any obligations to provide services to Themo Fisher;
(0) effective on the CellCulture Divestiture Completion Date, release the Transferred
Personnelfrom any nori-compete or similarrestraint of trade obligation, to the extent
7.2
(d)
(d) not procure, promote or encourage the transfer of any of the Transferred Personnel
from the Approved Purchaser to Thermo Fisherfor a period of six months after the
Cell Culture Divestiture Completion Date.
Interim Supply Agreements
In order forthe Approved Purchaser to be established as a viable, effective, stand-alone,
7.7
independent and long-term competitorin the Australian marketfor FBS, at the option of the
Approved Purchaser, Thermo Fisher must provide for a transitional period of 12 months the
that such an obligation would otherwise preventthe person from performing his or her
contemplated role in relation to the Australian Cell Culture Business; and
pagej, O


benefit, on terms and conditions equivalentto those at present afforded to the Australian
Cell Culture Business, of all current arrangements under which Thermo Fisher su lies
products or services, including SUT bags for media to the Australian Cell Culture Business,
unless otherwise agreed with the Approved Purchaser,
7.8 Thermo Fisher must ensure that any extension of the interim supply arran ements referred
to in clause 7.7 and any renewal or extension of an Approved Interim Supply Agreement:
(a)
is for a reasonable period, to enable the Approved Purchaser offhe Australian Cell
Culture Business to be established as a competitive and viable business independent
of Thermo Fisher, which period Is to be agreed by the Approved Purchaser and
Thermo Fisherand approved by the ACCC; and
provides that the goods or services supplied under that Approved Interim Supply
Agreement are supplied on reasonable arm's length terms, oras otherwise
commercially agreed between the Parties.
To avoid doubt, Thermo Fishermust seek priorwritten approval from the AGCC of any
renewal or extension of an Approved Interim Supply Agreement. Withoutlimiting the
ACCC's discretion, in making a decision on whether to approve a renewal or extension of
an Approved Interim Supply Agreement, the AGCC will have regard to the criteria set outin
clauses 7.7 and 7.8.
Consents
(b)
7.9
7.10 Thermo Fisher must effect or obtain the transfer, subjectto law, of alllicences, ermits
and/or other regulatory approvals to the Approved Purchaser that are required forthe
operation of the Australian Cell Culture Business.
7.11 Thermo Fisher must;
(a)
obtain any Third Party Consents as soon as practicable after entering into the
Approved Sale and Purchase Agreement with the Approved Purchaser of the
Australian Cell Culture Business;
comply with allrequirements necessary to obtain any Third Party Consents including
providing necessary information promptly to the third party including. where
applicable, the requirements contalned in Schedule 3;
(c) promptly pay the costs and expenses of anythird party reasonably incurred in
providing the Third Party Consents;
enter any further interim supply arrangement under clause 7.7 with the Approved
Purchaser, or vary the scope orterms of any existing Approved Interim Supply
Agreement or interim supply arrangement under clause 7.7, as required by the
Approved Purchaser, in relation to any goods or services that are required forthe
operation of the Australian Cell Culture Business which may be affected by any failure
to gain a Third Party Consent; and
(b)
(d)
(e) actin good faith in its negotiations to obtain any Third Party Consents.
7.12 If, before the Cell Culture Divestiture Completion Date:
page I "


(a) the Approved Purchaser of the Australian Cell Culture Business fails to obtain or is
unable to obtain any licence. permit or other regulatory approval referred to in clause
7.11 in relation to the Australian Cell Culture Business; or
(b) Thermo Fisherfails to obtain or is unable to obtain any Third Party Consents in
relation to the Australian Cell Culture Business,
then Thermo Fisher must provide the AGCC, alleast 7 Business Days priorio the Cell
Culture Divestiture Completion Date, with details of those licences. permits. approvals
or Third Party Consents that have not been obtained (including reasons why approval,
consent oftensfer could not be given priorto that date, and whatis required to obtain
theapproval. consentortransfer). '
If clause 7.12 applies, Thermo Fisher must continue to do everything reasonably in its
power to satisfy clause 7. tl as soon as possible after the completion of the divestiture of
the Australian Cell Culture Business (and until such time as clause 7.11 is satisfied).
Even if Thermo Fisher has complied with clauses 7.11 and 7.12, it remains a breach of this
Undertaking if Thermo Ficheris unable to effectthe divestiture of the Australian Cell
Culture Business by reason of a failure to obtain Third Party Consents.
(0)
7.3
7.14
8 Divestiture of the Australian CellCulture Business and the
Australian siRNA Business to an Approved Purchaser
Divestiture only to an Approved Purchaser
8.4
Thermo Fisher must sellthe Australian Cell Culture Business, which is part of the Global
CellCulture Remedy Package, to an Approved Purchaser, and must riot authorise the
Divestiture Trustee to sellthe Australian Cell Culture Business to a purchaser other than an
Approved Purchaser.
Thermo Fisher must sellthe Australian siRNA Business, which is part of the Global Gene
Modulation Remedy Package. to an Approved Purchaser, and must notauthorise the
Divestiture Trustee to sellthe Australian siRNA Business to a purchaser other than an
Approved Purchaser.
8.3 To avoid doubt, this Undertaking does riot require that the Australian Cell Culture Business
and the Australian siRNA Business be acquired by the same Approved Purchaser.
Proposed Purchaser Notice
To seek the AGCC's approval for a Proposed Purchaser in accordance with clause 8.5,
8.4
Thermo Fisher must provide (or procure that the Divestiture Trustee provides) to the ACCC
a Proposed Purchaser Notice in the form prescribed in Schedule 5.
8.5 Thermo Fisher must provide a Proposed Purchaser Notice forthe Australian Cell Culture
Business and a Proposed Purchaser Notice forthe Australian siRNA Business to the
AGCC alleast 20 Business Days prior to the end of the Divestiture Period. To avoid doubt,
this clause 8.5 does not apply to a Proposed Purchaser Notice given by the Divestiture
Trustee.
8.2
pagej, 2


Approval of a Proposed Purchaser
The ACCC may, within 15 Business Days after receipt by the ACCC of the Proposed
8.6
Purchaser Notice, or such further period as is required by the ACCC and notified to
Thermo Fisherin writing priorto the expiration of the 15 Business Day period, decide to
approve a Proposed Purchaser, which includes approving:
(a) the draft sale and purchase agreement attached to the Proposed Purchaser Notice;
and '
(b)
any draftinterim supply agreement attached to the Proposed Purchaser Notice, in
accordancewiththecriteriainclauses7.7t07.8. '
IftheACCC approves a Proposed Purchaser, the AGCC will provide Thermo FisheT with a
written notice (Approval Notice) stating that the Proposed Purchaser is an Approved
Purchaser.
8.8 Withoutlimiting the AGCC's discretion, in making a decision to provide an Approval Notice,
the factors the ACCC will have regard to include whether
(a) the Proposed Purchaser has been approved by the EC and the FTC;
(b) the draft sale and purchase agreement is consistentwith this Undertaking and
otherwise acceptable to the ACCC;
(0) the Proposed Purchaser will complete the transaction as contemplated by the draft
sale and purchase agreement;
(d) the Proposed Purchaser is independent of, and has no direct orindirectinterestin,
Thermo Fisher;
(e) the Proposed Purchaser is of goodfinancial standing and has an intention to maintain
and operate the Australian Cell Culture Business and/orthe Australian SIRNA
Business as a going concern;
co the Proposed Purchaser is able to conducttheAustralian Cell Culture Business and/or
the Australian siRNA Business effectiveIy within the respective global businesses; and
(9) the sale offhe Australian Cell Culture Business and/orthe Australian siRNA Business
to the Proposed Purchaser will address any competition concerns of the AGCC,
including the likely long-term viability and competitiveness of the business associated
with Australian Cell Culture Business and/orthe Australian SIRNA Business under the
ownership of the Proposed Purchaser.
8.9 Ifthe AGCC does riot approve a Proposed Purchaser, it will advise Thermo Fisher of its
decision in writing.
The AGCC may revoke an Approved Purchasers status as the Approved Purchaser ifthe
ACCC becomes aware that any information provided to it was incorrect, maccurate or
misleading.
8.11 Any extension of time by the AGCC pursuant to clause 8.6 extends the Divestiture Period
by the same length offline.
8.7
8.10
page 113
....,...,.......,...


9 Preservation of the Australian CellCulture Business
Maintenance onhe Australian Cell Culture Business
9.1 From the Commencement Date, Thermo Fisher must not sell ortransferits interest in the
Australian Cell Culture Business (other than the sale of goods and services in the ordinary
course of business), or make any Material Change, exceptin accordance with this
Undertaking.
9.2 Untilthe Cell Culture Divestiture Completion Date, Thermo Fisher must take such actions
as are necessary to maintain the economic viability, marketability and competitiveness of
the Australian Cell Culture Business.
Thermo Fisher's obligations in relation to the Australian Cell Culture Business
9.3 Without!jiniting this clause 9, Thermo Ficher must, from the Commencement Date until
completion of the divestiture of the Australian Cell Culture Business, take all steps
available to it to preserve the economic viability, marketability and competitiveness of the
Australian Cell Culture Business. in accordance with good business practice and shall
minimise as far as possible any risk of loss of competitive potential of the Australian Cell
Culture Business. In particular Thermo Fisher will:
(a)
not carry out any act upon its own authority that might have a significant adverse
impact on the value, management or competitiveness of the Australian Cell Culture
Business or that might alter the nature and scope of activity, orthe Industrial or
commercial strategy @1the investment policy of the Australian Cell Culture Business;
and
(b) make available sufficientresources forthe development of the Australian Cell Culture
Business, on the basis and continuation of the existing business plans forthe
Australian Cell Culture Business.
From the Commencement Date untilthe Cell Culture Divestiture Completion Date, Thermo
Fisher will not:
(a) terminate or vary the terms of employment or engagement of any of the Transferred
Personnel. or agree to do any of those things; and
(b) directly or indirectly procure, promote orencourage the redeployment of personnel
necessary forthe operation offhe Australian Cell Culture Business as allhe
Commencement Date to any other business operated by Thermo Fisher.
Direction to personnel
9.5 As soon as practicable after the Commencement Date, Thermo Fisher must directits
personnel, including directors, contractors, managers, officers, employees and agents, not
to do anything Inconsistent with Thermo Fishefs obligations under this Undertaking.
Confidential Information
9.4
9.6
Subject to clause 9.7 and 9.8, Thermo Fisher must not, at any time from the
Commencement Date, use or disclose any confidential information aboutthe Australian
Cell Culture Business gained through:
page 114


the ownership and/or management of the Australian Cell Culture Business; or
fulfilling any obligations pussuant to this Undertaking, including the provision of any
services to the Approved Purchaser of the Australian Cell Culture Business.
Clause 9.6 does not apply to information that Thermo Fisher requires to comply with legal
and regulatory obligations, including obligations relating to:
(a) taxation;
(b) accounting;
(0) financial reporting;
(d) Australian Securities and InvestmentsCommission, Securities & EXchange
Commission and stock eXchange disclosure obligations; and
(e) defenceoflegalclaims.
Clause 9.6 does not apply to information that Thermo Fisher requires to carry Quits
obligations under this Undertaking, including its obligations to senthe Australian Cell
Culture Business, and to maintain the economic viabitsty, marketability and competitiveness
of the Australian Cell Culture Business, provided such information:
(a)
is only made available to those officers, employees, contractors and advisers of
Thermo Fisherwho need to know the information forthe purpose of ensuring
compliance with the Undertaking; and
(b) is riot usedforanyotherpurpose.
(a)
(b)
9.7
9.8
10
Independent Management of the Australian Cell Culture
Business
Obligation to appoint an Approved Independent Manager
10.1 Thermo Fisher must appoint and maintain an Approved Independent Manager to manage
the Australian Cell Culture Business, from the Control Date untilthe Cell Culture Divestiture
Completion Date, in accordance with this Undertaking.
10.2 Thermo Fisher must procure that the Approved Independent Manager reports to the
Monitoring Trustee, and the Divestiture Trustee (ifany), appointed pursuant to the EC
Commitments.
10.3 The Approved Independent Manager will be a delegate of the Monitoring Trustee.
10.4 Thermo Fisher must procure that, as a delegate of the Monitoring Trustee, the Approved
Independent Manager will;
(a) in the firstreport to the ACCC made pursuant to clause 10.40, propose a
detailed work plan describing how it intends to monitor compliance with this
Undertaking;
page I 15


follow any direction given to him or her by the ACCC in relation to the
performance of his or her functions as the Approved Independent Manager
pursuantto this Undertaking;
oversee the ongoing management of the Australian Cell Culture Business to
ensure its continued economic viabinty, marketability and competitiveness and
monitor compliance by Thermo Fisher with this Undertaking. To that end,
Thermo Fisher must procure that the Monitoring Trustee shall:
(1)
monitor the preservation of the economic viabitity, marketability and
competitiveness offhe Australian Cell Culture Business, and the
keeping separate offhe Australian Cell Culture Business from the
business retained by the Parties, in accordance with this Undertaking;
(ii) supervise the management of the Australian CellCulture Business, in
accordance with this Undertaking;
In consultation with Thermo Fisher, determine all necessary measures
to ensure that Thermo Fisher does riot after the Cell Culture Divestiture
Completion Date obtain any business secrets, know"how, commercial
information, or any other information of a confidential or proprietary
nature relating to the Australian Cell Culture Business, in particular,
strive forthe severing of the Australian Cell Culture Business'
participation in a central information technology to the extent possible,
without compromising the viability offhe Australian Cell Culture
Business, and decide whether such information may be disclosed to
Thermo Fisher as the disclosure is reasonably necessary to allow
Thermo Fisher to carry curlhe divestiture or as the discbsure is
required by law;
(iv) monitorthe splitting of assets and allocation of personnel between the
Australian Cell Culture Business and Thermo Fisher;
(d) assume the other functions assigned to the Monitoring Trustee under the EC
Commitments with respect to the Australian Cell Culture Business;
propose to Thermo Fichersuch measures asthe Approved Independent
Manager considers necessary to ensure Thermo Fisher's compliance with this
Undertaking, in particular, the maintenance of the economic viability,
marketability or competitiveness offhe Australian Cell Culture Business, the
holding separate of the Australian Cell Culture Business and the non-
disclosure of competitiveIy sensitive information; and
provide to the AGCC a copy of the EC Monitoring Trustee's written reports,
which will include a section in relation to the operation and management of the
Australian Cell Culture Business, and a copy of any non-compliance report
which refers or relates to, or has a material effect on, the Australian Cell
Culture Business, including any confidential version of any such reports, within
3 Business Days of providing such a report to the EC.
Appointment of the Approved Independent Manager
10.5 At least 5 Business Days before the Control Date, Thermo Fisher must provide the AGCC
with a notice for a Proposed Independent Manager in the form prescribed in Schedule 6 to
this Undertaking (Proposed Independent Maria er Notice and will use best endea
(b)
(c)
(iii)
(e)
(i)
..................."................,.,,... ......~...."......~...."......... ".. ... ...
page It6


to consulttheACCC as early as possible as to the identity of any anticipated Proposed
Independent Manager.
The AGCC shall have the discretion to approve or rejectin writing the To OSed
Independent Manager. The Approved independent Manager shall be appointed within 5
Business Days of the ACCC's approval.
Thermo Fisher's obligations in relation to the Approved Independent Maria or
Withoutlimiting its obligations in this Undertaking, Thermo Fisher must coin I with and
10.7
enforce the terms of the Monitoring Trustee mandate, as approved by the EC pursuant to
the EC Commitments, in relation to the Approved Independent Manager.
Obligations and powers of the Approved Independent Manager
10.8 The obligations and powers of the Approved Independent Manager, as a delegate of the
Monitoring Trustee, will be as set out in the terms offhe Monitoring Trustee mandate as
approved by the EC PUTSuanttothe EC Commitments ,
Resignation, revocation orterminatlon of the Approved Independent Manager
Thermo Fisher must immediately notify the AGCC in the eventthatthe Monitoring Trustee
I0.9
resigns or otherwise stops adjng as the Monitoring Trustee (pursuantto the EC
Commitments) before the completion offhe divestiture of the Australian Cell Culture
Business.
10.10 The ACCC may revoke an Approved independent Manager's status asthe Approved
Independent Manager iftheACCC becomes aware that any information provided to it was
incorrect, Inaccurate or misleading.
10.11 The ACCC may approve any proposal by, or alternatively may direct, Thermo Fisherto
terminate the appointment of the Approved Independent Manager ifin the AGCC's view the
Approved Independent Manager acts inconsistently with the provisions of this UnderIakin .
10.12 If clauses 10.9, to. 10 or 10.1, apply. Thermo Fisher must provide the ACCC with details of
the proposals forthe new Monitoring Trustee, to be appointed pursuant to the terms of the
EC Commitments. within 7 Business Days after the relevant event occurs. and clause 10.6
will apply (that is, the AGCC shall have the discretion to approve or rejectthe proposed
Independent Manager, and the Approved Independent Manager shall be appointed within 5
Business Days of the ACCC's approval). Consistent with clause 10.3, the newApproved
Independent Manager will be a delegate of the new Monitoring Trustee.
10.6
1'1 Failure to divest the Australian Cell Culture Business and/or
the Australian siRNA Business within the Divestiture Period
Sale of unsold Businesses
In the eventthatthe sale of the Australian Cell Culture Business (being a component of the
Global Cell Culture Remedy Package) orthe Australian SIRNA Business (being a
component of the Global Gene Modulation Remedy Package) to an Approved Purchaser is
not completed by the end of the Divestiture Period, then Thermo Fisher must appoint and
maintain a Divestiture Trustee. in accordance with the EC Commitments.
tl. I
page I 17
.


Appointment of a Divestiture Trustee
11.2
Thermo Fisher must procure that the terms of appointment of the Divestiture Trustee
include obligations to the effectthatthe Divestiture Trustee:
(a) must divest the Australian Calculture Business and/orthe Australian SIRNA
Business to an Approved Purchaser, approved by the ACCC in accordancewith
clause 8 of this Undertaking with the Divestiture Trustee acting in place of Thermo
Fisher; and
must provide a Proposed Purchaser Notice to the AGCC alleast20 Business Days
prior to the end of the Trustee Divestiture Period.
Thermo Fisher must provide to the AGCCwith a copy of the executed terms of
appointment of the Divestiture Trustee within 2 Business Days of execution.
Thermo Fisher must procure that the Divestiture Trustee provide to the ACCC a copy of
each report(including any confidential version) provided to the EC that indicates that the
progress of Thermo Fisher's compliance with the EC Commitments within 3 Business Days
of providing such a report to either the EC.
(b)
11.3
11.4
12 Information
42. , Thermo Fisher must notify the AGCC in writing of:
(a)
the anticipated date of the Control Date alleast 2 Business Days before the Control
Date;
(b) the date of the Cell Culture Divestiture Completion Date alleast 2 Business Days
before that date; and
the date of the siRNA Divestiture Completion Date alleast 2 Business Days before
that date.
12.2 Thermo Fisher must notify the ACCC in writing of the occurrence of;
(a)
the coinpletbn of the Proposed Acquisition within 3 Business Days offhe Control
Date;
(b) the divestiture offhe Australian Cell Culture Business within 3 Business Days of the
Cell Culture Divestiture Completion Date; and
(c) the divestiture of the Australian siRNA Business within a Business Days of the siRNA
Divestiture Completion Date.
(c)
pa, e I 1'


Thermo Fisher must provide the AGCC with a copy of the executed Approved Sale and
Purchase Agreement, and anyolheragreements between Thermo Fisher and an A roved
Purchaser relating to the sale of the Australian Cell Culture Business and Australian SIRNA
Business within 3 Business Days of any such agreement being executed.
12.4 The AGCC may direct Thermo Fisher in respect of its compliance with this Undertakin to,
andThermoFishermust; '
(a) furnish information to the ACCC in the time and in the form requested by the AGCC;
(b) produce information. documents and materials to the ACCC within Thermo Fishe^s
custody, power or controlin the time and in the form requested by the ACCC;
direct its personnel, including its directors, contractors, managers, officers, employees
and agents, to attend the ACCC at a time and place appointed by the AGCC to
answer any questions the ACCC (including its Commissioners, its staffor its agents)
may have; and/or
(d) respond in a timely manner to any quest tons or requests for information or documents
made by the ACCC aboutthis Undertaking.
12.5 The AGCC may request information from anyAppointee directly at any time in relation to
Thermo Fishei"s compliance with this Undertaking.
12.6 In respect to Thermo Fisher's compliance with this Undertaking, Thermo Fisher must
procure that anyAppointee:
(a) furnish information to the AGCC in the time and in the form requested by the AGCC;
(b) produce information. documents and materials to the ACCC within the Appointee's
custody, power or control in the time and in the form requested by the AGCC; and/or
(c) attend the ACCC at a time and place appointed by the AGCC to answer any questions
the ACCC (including its Commissioners, its stafforits agents) may have.
Thermo FisheT will use its best endeavours to ensure that the Approved Independent
Manager complies with any request from the ACCC in accordance with clause 12.6.
Any direction made by the AGCC under clause 12.4 will be notified to corporate legal
counsel of Thermo Fisher, in accordance with clause t7.2.
12.9 The AGCC may, in its discretion, to be exercised in good faith;
(a) advise the Approved Independent Manager of any request made by it under this
clause 12; and/or
(b) provide copies to the Approved Independent Manager of any information furnished,
documents and material produced orinformation given to it under this clause.
12.10 Nothing in this clause 12 requires the provision of information or documents in respect of
which Thermo Fisher has a claim of legal professional privilege.
12.3
(c)
12.7
42.8
pagej, 9


13 Disclosure of Undertaking
13.1 Thermo Fisher and the ACCC agree that:
(a) Confidential Schedule 2 will remain confidential at alltimes; and
(b) subject to clause 13.2, Confidential Schedules 3 and 4 will remain confidential at all
times.
,3.2
Ifthe EC Commitments in Confidential Schedule 3 become publicly available, the AGCC
may publish a version of the Undertaking including Confidential Schedules 3 and 4 on its
website.
43.3 Thermo Fisher acknowledges that the AGCC may provide the Approved Independent
Manager with a copy of this Undertaking which includes unredacted versions of the
13.4 Thermo Fisher acknowledges that the AGCC may. subject to clause 43.1:
(a) makethis Undertaking publicly available;
(b)
publish this Undertaking on its Public Section 87B Undertakings Register and Public
Mergers Register; and
(c) from time to time publicly refer to this Undertaking.
13.5 Nothing in Ihe confidential parts of this Undertaking prevents the ACCC from disclosing
such information as:
Schedules.
(a) is required by law;
(by is permitted by s 155AAA of the Act;
(0) is necessary forthe purpose of enforcement action under section 878 of the Act; or
(d) is necessary forthe purpose of making such marketinquiries as the AGCC thinks fit to
assess the impact on competition arising in connection with this Undertaking.
Nothing in the confidential parts of this Undertaking prevents the AGCC from using the
information contained in this Undertaking for any purpose consistent with its statutory
functions and powers.
13.7 Nothing in clause 13.4 orthe confidential parts of this Undertaking prevents Them10 Fisher
from disclosing any information to a potential Proposed Purchaser for a legitimate purpose,
including forthe purposes of compliance with the EC Commitments or this Undertaking,
provided that, to the extentthatthe information remains confidential, Thermo Fisher
requires the recipientto enter into a non-disclosure agreement.
13.6
14 Obligation to procure
44.1 Where the performance of an obligation under this Undertaking requires a Related Body
Corporate of Thermo Fisherto take or refrain from taking some action, Thermo Fisherwill
page I 20


procure that Related Body Corporate to take or refrain from taking that action, as the case
maybe. '
15
45.1
NO Derogation
This Undertaking does riot preventthe ACCC from taking enforcement action at an time
whether during or after the period of this Undertaking in respect of any breach by Thermo
Fisher of any term of the Undertaking.
Nothing in this Undertaking is intended to restrictthe right of the ACCC to take action under
the Actfor penalties or other remedies in the eventthat Thermo Fisher does notfull
implement and/or perform its obligations under this Undertaking or in any other event
where the ACCC decides to take action under the Actfor penalties or other remedies.
15.2
16
16.1
Costs
Thermo Fisher must pay all of its own costs incurred in relation to this Undertaking.
17 Notices
Giving Notices
17.1 Any notice or communication to the ACCC pursuantto this Undertaking must be sentto:
Email address:
mergers@accc. gov. au
Attention: Executive General Manager
Mergers and Adjudication Group
With a copysentto: mergers@accc. gov. au
Director, Undertakings Compliance Unit
Coordination and Strategy Branch
Mergers and Adjudication Group
17.2 Any notice or communication to Thermo Fisher PUTSuantto this Undertaking must be sent
to:
Glibert + Tobin Lawyers
Level 37, 2 Park Street
Sydney, NSW2000
eavery@gnaw. coin. au
Elizabeth Avery, Partner
If sent by post, notices are taken to be received three Business Days after posting (or
seven Business Days after posting itsentto orfrom a place outside Australia).
17.4 If sent by email, notices are taken to be received at the time shown in the email as the time
the emailwas sent.
Change of contact details
17.3
Name:
Address:
Email:
Attention:
page I 2,


17.5 Thermo Fisher orthe AGCC must notify the other party of a change to its contact details
within three Business Days.
Any notice or communication will be sent to the most recently advised contact details and
subject to clause 17.3 and 17.4, will be taken to be received.
17.6
...."....,..........".........................,.....,........,...~.,".."......"..""...................""......... . ........-~......
pa8e 122


o
=a
7"""
111
^
>
=
a.".
^.
^:
o=
Q>
^a
^
a
^
o
C>
S
=
a
^
^
O =13a3
^ ^ ^
..
^^
I' ^ "
^....^ ^
^^
^^
O^'
SIR
".
O=
>. g
^. ^
^'S
~.^
Se
OS
.. "
^.
..
=r g
,. 11
o^
^^
,-
..
o
N
!9
8
^
^I
^
a,
a
a
g
=
o
g
a'
^
V. >
n.
"=
a
e!
o
o^
^.
^
in
-
a
a
X
^.
a
=
-*
a.
in
co
.,
=
=
=^.
co
=
a".
^
^
t9
^,
a
^
.^.
^
^
"
Q=
^
^
^
^!
..-
I
o
^-~---
^
^
^
o
.
^.
^,
=
^^
a
^.
G
^:
=
Q
^
=
.
a,
a
^
.
"
Q
^
^
*


Schedule I
App-Tek
International Ply
Ltd
(ACN 056895259)
Thermo Fisher's Australian subsidiaries
Dinnex Pty Limited
(ACN 09490560, )
Business
EGS Gauging Ply
Ltd.
(ACN 4,7643704)
Registered Office
EnviroEquip Pty
Ltd
(ACN 0564/3926)
Business
Kremzow CRT, Unit 3, 2 Pinacle Street, Brendale,
QLD4500
Registered Office
Fisher Scientific
Australia Pty
Limited
(ACN 077737225)
Business
5 Caribbean Drive. Scoresby, VIC 3179, Australia
Registered Office
4 Taiavera Road. Levelf, North Ryde. NSW21i3
Australia
Intalysis Pty Ltd
(ACN 1,606795, )
Business
5 Caribbean Drive, Scoresby, VIC 3179, Australia
Suite 104, 25 Solent Circuit. Baulkham Hills, NSW
2153
Business
Keridro Laboratory
Products Pty. , Ltd,
(ACN 084762274)
5 Caribbean Drive, Scoresby. VIC 3179, Australia
Registered Office
13A Rock!ea Drive, Port Melbourne, vie 3207
Loinb Scientific
(AUSt) Ply Limited
(ACN 00269,287)
Business
" ,
. .
101 Collins Street, Level 39, Melbourne, VIC 3000,
Australia
Registered Office
Business
Microgenics
Diagnostics Pty.
Limited
(ACN 084443194)
5 Caribbean Drive. Scoresby, VIC 3179, Australia
Registered Office
Unit 16. 56 Buffalo Road Gladesville NSW 2111,
Australia
Business
5 Caribbean Drive, Scoresby, VIC 3179, Australia
Oxoid Australia
Pty. Limited
(ACN 005422659)
Registered Office
464 Langford Drive, Kanong NSW2250
.."............................,"..".........".."...,..,,......."....................."".."....""..".....,"."..",,...."..,,......."..,........"... mm, . . .
Business
5 Caribbean Drive, Scoresby, VIC 3179, Australia
Perbio Science
Registered Office
26 Atkirison Road. Taren Point NSW2229 Australia
5 Caribbean Drive, Scoresby, \AC 3179, Australia
Business
4 Talavera Road, Level I, North Ryde. NSW 2113
Australia
Registered Office
Registered Office
5 Caribbean Drive, Scoresby, VIC 3179, Australia
20 Daigleish Street, Thebanon
Adelaide, South Australia 5031
5 Caribbean Drive, Scoresby, VIC 3179, Australia
5 Caribbean Drive, Scoresby, VIC 3179, Australia
page 124


n it
,,,* .
(AUSt^Iia) Ply.
Limited
(ACN 099692243)
a
e
Promedica Pty
Limited
(ACN 093275551)
...
t
19" ,
Technology Design
Solutions Pty Ltd
(ACN 056895259)
,
Business
Thermo Electron
Australia Pty
Limited
(ACN 109074,15)
L
Registered Office
Thermo Fisher
Scientific Australia
p^! Ltd
(ACN 0583909i7)
a*~*
Business
Registered Office
Suite 4, Level2, 25 Ryde Road, Pymble NSW 2073
Thermo Gamma-
Metrics Holdings
Pty Ltd.
(ACN 122205225)
Registered Office
5 Caribbean Drive, Scoresby, VIC 3179, Australia
Kremzow CTU, Unit 3, 2 Pinacle Street, Brendale,
QLD4500
it
Business
Thermo Gamma.
Metrics Pty Ltd
(ACN 087556527)
5 Caribbean Drive, Scoresby, VIC 3179, Australia
Registered Office
Thermo Informatics
Asia Pacific Pty
Ltd.
(ACN 075553785)
5 Caribbean Drive. Scoresby, VIC 3179, Australia
,, J ' ,, F
I
Registered Office
2-26 Claylon Road, Clayton. VIC 3168
Thermo Optek
(Australia) Ply Ltd.
(ACN 075554069)
Registered Office
5 Caribbean Drive. Scoresby, \AC 3179, Australia
Business
5 Caribbean Drive, Scoresby, VIC 3179, Australia
Thermo Trace Ply
Ltd
(ACN 002634442)
Registered Office
Thermo Fisher
Scientific Australia
Senior Holdings
Pty Limited
(ACN 165 098 019)
5 Caribbean Drive, Scoresby, VtC 3179, Australia
Business
18 Butler Boulevard, Burbridge Business Park,
Adelaide Airport, South Australia 5950
Registered Office
..~............".".......""."............"............"......"."..........,.,.............""...."........~....".....".......".....,.......~... ... . .. .. . . .
Registered Office
5 Caribbean Drive, Scoresby, VIC 3179, Australia
14/38-46 South Street, Rydalmere NSW21,6
Registered Office
5 Caribbean Drive, Scoresby, VIC 3179, Australia
5 Caribbean Drive, Scoresby, VIC 3179, Australia
5 Caribbean Drive, Scoresby, VIC 3.79, Australia
page1 25


Confidential Schedule 2


Confidential Schedule 3
s - confidential


Schedule 4
Dictionary
In this Undertaking:
ACCC means the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission.
Act means the Compelitibn and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth).
Appointee means the Approved Independent Manager, Monitoring Trustee. Hold
Separate Manager or Divestiture Trustee, as applicable.
Approval Notice is defined in clause 8.7.
Approved Independent Manager means the Australia-based manager forthe
Australian Cell Culture Business who reports to the Monitoring Trustee and is
independent of Thermo Fisher during the Divestiture Period.
Approved Interim Supply Agreement means any agreement. forthe supply of
goods or services by Thermo Fisherto the Approved Purchaser. approved by the
ACCC under clauses 7.9 or 8.6 of this Undertaking.
Approved Purchaser means a purchaser offhe Australian Cell Culture Business,
who is approved in accordance with clause 8.
Approved Sale and Purchase Agreement means the contract approved by the
ACCC in accordance with the terms offhis Undertaking, by which the Approved
Purchaser will acquire the Australian Cell Culture Business orAustralian siRNA
Business from Thermo Fisher.
Dictionary
Australian Cell Culture Business means the business and assets described in
Schedule 2,
Australian siRNA Business means the part of the Global Gene Modulation
Remedy Package that relates to siRNA assets located in Australia.
Business Day means a day other than a Saturdayor Sunday on which banks are
open for business generally in the Australian Capital Territory.
Cell Culture Divestiture Completion Date means the date on which completion of
the divestiture of the Australian Cell Culture Business from Thermo Fisherto the
Approved Purchaser occurs.
Commencement Date means the date when the Undertaking comes into effectin
accordance with clause 5.1.
Control Date means the date on which the Proposed Acquisition is completed,
Corporations Act means GolpoiationsAot200f (Cth).
Divestiture Period Is the period defined in Confidential Schedule 4.
page 130


Divestiture Trustee means the person appointed as a Divestiture Trustee PUTSuant
to the EC Commitments as set outin Schedule 3 of this Undertaking. More
specifically, the Divestiture Trustee is one or more natural or legal person(s),
independent of the Parties, who is approved by the EC and appointed by Thermo
Fisher and who has received from Thermo Fisherthe mandate to sellthe Global
Divestiture businesses to a Purchaser at no minimum price.
EC means European Coinmissbn.
EC Commitments meansthe commitments to the European Commission as
detailed in Schedule 3 of this Undertaking.
FBS means foetal bovine serum.
FTC means Federal Trade Commission.
Global Cell Culture Remedy Package has the meaning set outin clause 3.15, It
refers to the divestiture to which Thermo Fisher has committed in accordance with
Exhibit A of its EC Commitments, as set outin Schedule 3 of this Undertaking.
Global Divestiture means the global divestiture of assets set outin clause 3.13. It
is the divestiture to which Thermo Fisher has committed in accordance with the EC
Commitments.
Global Gene Modulation Remedy Package has the meaning set out in clause
3. ,7.1trefers to the divestiture to which Thermo Fisher has committed in accordance
with Exhibit B of its EC Commitments, as set outin Schedule 3 of this Undertaking.
Hold Separate Manager meansthe person appointed as a Hold Separate Manager
pursuant to the EC Commitments as set outin Schedule 3 of this Undertaking.
Intellectual Property includes all rights in relation to copyright, trade marks,
inventbns (including parents, innovation patents and utility models), confidential
information, trade secrets. technical data, information, know"how, formulae,
specifications, drawings, data, manuals and instructions which are owned by Thermo
Fisher and used forthe operation of the business associated with the Australian Cell
Culture Business and are necessary forthe economic viabiffy, marketability and
competitiveness of the business associated with the Australian Cell Culture
Business.
Life Technologies means Life Technologies Corporation, a United States company
incorporated under the laws of Delaware, with its head office at 5791 Van Alley Way,
Cartsbad. California, United States of America.
Material Change means any change to the structure. attributes, extent or operations
of a business associated with the Australian Cell Culture Business that may affect, or
impact on, that business' competitiveness. independence from Thermo Fisher and
viabuny.
Material Contract means any contract, arrangement or understanding necessary for
the operation of a business associated with the Australian Cell Culture Business,
whether or not in writing,
page 131


Monitoring Trustee means the one or more natural or legal person(s), independent
of the Parties, who is approved by the EC and appointed by Thermo Fisher, and who
has the duty to monitorThermo Fisher's compliance with the conditions and
obligations in the EC Commitments as set out in Schedule 3 of this Undertaking.
Moral alloc facility is defined in clause 3.23.
Product Approval means any approvals, registrations, permits. ticences, consents,
authorisations and other approvals, and pending applications and requests
therefore, required exclusively forthe importation, supply and sale of the cell culture
products in Australia.
Proposed Acquisition is defined in clause 3.1,
Proposed Purchaser means a person who proposes to acquire a business
associated with the Australian Cell Culture Business and/orthe Australian SIRNA
Business, as named in a Proposed Purchaser Notice.
Proposed Purchaser Notice is defined in clause 8.4.
Public Mergers Register means the ACCC's public register of merger
investigations, available at WWW. accc. gov. au,
Public Section 87B Undertakings Register means the AGCC's public register of
section 87B undertakings, available at WWW. accc, gov. au.
Related Bodies Corporate has the meaning given to it by section 4A of the Act.
SIRNA means the product known as "synthetic smallinterfering RNA'.
siRNA Divestiture Completion Date means the date on which completion of the
divestiture of the Australian siRNA Business from Thermo Fisherto the Approved
Purchaser occurs.
SUT means single use technologies. as defined in clause 3.24,
Thermo Fisher has the meaning given in clause 1.1 of this Undertaking.
Third Party Consents means anyconsents (including by any governmental agency
or authority) required forthe assignment, novation, sale, sub-!mensing or transfer of
any assets, licences, Material Contracts (including those agreements, licences or
sub"!icences, as the case may be, in Schedule 3), permits or approvals:
(a) used by or in relation to the Australian Cell Culture Business at the date of this
Undertaking;
(b) which will be subjectin each case to Thermo Fisher obtaining the relevant
written consent of the third party to the continuation offhe use, after the sale
of such assets in accordance with this Undertaking, of such asset, licence,
Material Contract, permit or approval by any business associated with the
Australian Cell Culture Business; and
(0)
without which Thermo Fisherwould riot be able to effectthe divest11ure of the
Australian Cell Culture Business in accordance with this Undertaking.
page 132


on no less favourable terms than enjoyed in relation to the Australian Cell Culture
Business allhe date of this Undertaking.
Transferred Personnel means employees described in clause 7.4(b).
Trustee Divestiture Period is the period defined in Confidential Schedule 3.
Undertaking is a reference to arithe provisions of this document including its
Schedules.
2
Interpretation
In the interpretation of this Undertaking, the following provisions apply unless the
context otherwise requires:
(a) a reference to 'this Undertaking'includes all offhe provisions of this document
including its schedules;
headings are inserted for convenience only and do riot affectthe interpretation
of this Undertaking;
ifthe day on which any act, matter orthing is to be done under this
Undertaking is not a Business Day, the act, matter or thing must be done on
the next Business Dayj
a reference in this Undertaking to any law, legislation or legislative provision
includes any statutory modification, amendment or re-enactment. and any
subordinate legislation or regulations issued under that legislation or
legislative provision;
(e) a reference in this Undertaking to any company includes its Related Bodies
Corporate;
to a reference in this Undertaking to any agreement or document is to that
agreement ordocument as amended, novated, supplemented or replaced;
(9) a reference to a clause, part. schedule or attachment is a reference to a
clause, part, schedule or attachment of orto this Undertaking;
(h) an expression importing a natural person includes any company, trust*
partnership, joint venture, association, body corporate or governmental
agency;
where a word or phrase is given a defined meaning, another part of speech or
other grammatical form in respect of that word or phrase has a corresponding
meaning;
in a word which denotes the singular also denotes the plural, a word which
denotes the plural also denotes the singular, and a reference to any gender
also denotes the other genders;
(k) a referenceto the words 'such as','including','particularly' and similar
expressions is to be construed without limitation;
(b)
(c)
(d)
(i)
pugs 133


(1)
a construction that would promote the purpose - or object- underlying the
Undertaking (whether expressly stated or riot) will be preferred to a
construction that would riot promote that purpose or object
material riotforming part of this Undertaking may be considered to:
confirm the meaning of a clause is the ordinary meaning conveyed by
( I)
the text of the clause, taking into account its contextin the Undertaking
and the competition concerns intended to be addressed by the
Undertaking and the clause In question; or
(ii) determine the meaning of the clause when the ordinary meaning
conveyed by the text of the clause, taking into account its contextin the
Undertaking and the purpose or object underlying the Undertaking,
leads to a resultthat does not promote the purpose or object underlying
the Undertaking;
in determining whether consideration should be given to any material in
accordance with paragraph (in), or in considering any weightto be given to
any such material, regard must be had, in addition to any other relevant
matters, to:
to the effectthatreliance on the ordinary meaning conveyed by the text of
the clause would, have (taking into accountits contextin the
Undertaking and whether that meaning promotes the purpose or object
of the Undertaking); and
(ii) the need to ensure that the result of the Undertaking is to completely
address anyACCC competition concerns;
the AGCC may authorise the Mergers Review Committee, a member of the
ACCC or a member of the ACCC staff, to exercisea decision making function
under this Undertaking on its behalf and that authorisation may be subject to
any conditions which the ACCC may impose;
in performing its obligations under this Undertaking, Thermo Fisherwill do
everything reasonably within its power to ensure that its performance of those
obligations is done in a manner which is consistent with promoting the
purpose and object of this Undertaking.
a reference to:
(i) a thing (including, but notlimited to. a chose in action or other right)
includes a part of that thing;
(ii) a party includes hasuccessors and permitted assigns; and
(iii) a monetary amountis in Australian dollars.
mm)
(n)
(0)
(P)
(q)
page 134


Confidential Schedule 4 


Schedule 5
Proposed Purchaser Notice Form
Please note in relation to information given on or in relation to this form, giving false or misleading
information is a serious offence.
The completed form with requested documents attached may be provided to the ACCC using the
following method:
Email
Subject line:
Address:
Attention:
With an email copy sentto:
Address:
mergersucu@accc. gov. au
Attention:
Director, Undertakings Compliance Unit, Coordination and Strategy Branch
I) In relation to the Proposed Purchaser, please provide the following information:
(a) Name of the Proposed Purchaser:
(b) Address:
(0) Telephone number:
Proposed Purchaser Notice - Thermo Fisher
mergers@accc. gov. au
Executive General Manager- Mergers and Adjudication Group
2) Please attach a submission containing the following inforrnation to this form:
(a) a descriptbn of the business carried on by the Proposed Purchaser including the
locations in which the Proposed Purchaser carries on its business.
(b) details of the Proposed Purchaser's experience in the relevant market/s.
(0) the names of the owner/s and/or the directors (delete any that do riot apply) of the
Proposed Purchaser.
(d) a section addressing the factors set outin clause 8.8 of this Undertaking, including
any information adverse to the Proposed Purchaser, in the power, possession or
control of Thermo Ficher.
(d) Other contact details:
a) Please also attach to this form:
(a) the finalsed draft of the sale and purchase agreement for approval by the ACCC in
accordance with this Undertaking.
(b) the finalised draft of any interim supply agreement for approval by the AGCC in
accordance with this Undertaking.
page 136


Schedule 6 Independent Manager Appointment
This form sets outthe information required by the AGCC in relation to proposed appointment of
the Independent Manager.
Please note in relation to information given on in relation to this form, giving false or misleading
information is a serious offence.
Method of Delivery to the AGCC
The completed form, along with the additional requested information is to be provided to the
ACCC with the subjectline proposed Independent Manager Form- Them10 FisherUndertaking
to the below email addresses:
I)
mergers@accc. gov. au
Attention: Executive General Manager
Mergers and Adjudication Group
With a copy sentto:
mergers@accc. gov. au
Attention: Director, Undertakings Compliance Unit
Coordination and Strategy Branch
Mergers and Adjudication Group
Information Required
The ACCC requires the following information in order to assess an Independent Manager
I) Proposed Independent Manager Details:
(a) the name offhe Proposed Independent Manager; and
(b) the name of the proposed Independent Manager's employer and contact details
including:
2)
.
2) A submission containing the following information:
(8) details of the Proposed Independent Managers qualifications and experience
relevant to his or her proposed role pureuantto the Undertaking.
(b) the names of the owner/s and the directors of the Proposed Independent Manager's
employer.
Address;
.
Contact name;
Telephone number;
Other contact details.
.
.
page 137


(0) details of any of the following types of relationships between Thermo Fisher and the
Proposed Independent Manager orthe Proposed Independent Manager's employer,
or confirmation that no such relationship exists whether within Australia or outside of
Australia, other than as disclosed:
(i) Thermo Fisher and the Proposed Independent Manager's employer are
Associated Entities.
Cry Thermo Fisheris an Entity Connected with Proposed Independent Manager's
employer.
(iii) The Proposed Independent Managers employer is an Entity Connected with
Thermo Fisher.
(iv) Thermo Fisher and Proposed Independent Managers employer are Related
Entities.
(v) Thermo Fisher and Proposed Independent Managers employer are Related
Parties
(vi) any Related Party, Related Entity or Entity Connected with Thermo Fisheris a
Related Party, Related Entity or Entity Connected with Proposed
Independent Manager.
(vin Thermo Fisher and Proposed Independent Manager or the Proposed
Independent Manager's employer have a contractual relationship or had one
within the pastthree years, other than those attached to this form.
(viii) the Proposed Independent Managers employer is a supplier of Thermo
Fisher or has been in the pastthree years other than the relationships
disclosed in 2)(c)(vii) above.
(ix) Thermo Fisheris a supplier of the Proposed Independent Manager's employer
or has been in the pastthree years,
(x) any other relationship between Thermo Fisher and the Proposed Independent
Manager orthe Proposed Independent Manager's employer that allows one
to affectthe business decisions of the other.
3) A document outlining the terms of appointment forthe Proposed Independent Manager.
Speciflc Information required for appointment of the Approved Independent Manager
The ACCC requires the below information in relation to the appointment of the Approved
Independent Manager,
I) The finalsed draft separation and management plan forthe Global Cell Culture Remedy
Package, including the Australian CellCulture Business detailing the measures and timing to
be implemented by Thermo Fisher's and the Approved Independent Manager in order to fulfil
Thermo Fisher's and the Approved Independent Manager's obligations pursuantto this
Undertaking. This plan is to be drafted by the Proposed Independent Manager in consultation
with Thermo Fisherto achieve the objectives of. and in accordance with, the Undertaking
including:
page 138


(a) the intended mode of operation offhe Australian Cell Culture Business until
completion of their divestiturej
separation measures to ensure the Australian Cell Culture Business is operated in a
manner which is financially and operationally separate from Thermo Fisher, including
the;
co separation offhe books and records of the Australian Cell Culture Business
from those of Thermo Fisher;
tiny severance of the Australian Cell Culture Business' participation in any private
shared infom!ation technology networks, to the extent possible without
compromising the viabillty of the Australian Ceil Culture Business;
(Iii) implementation of specific electronic, information and physical security
measures to maintain the confidentiality of any competitiveIy sensitive
information of the Australian Cell Culture and Business; and
(iv) severance of arrangements to share personnel and plant between the
Australian Ceil Culture Business and any businesses to be retained by
Thermo Fisher, to the extent possible without compromising the viability of
the Australian Cell Culture Business;
(c) details of contracts forthe provision of goods or services to the Australian Cell
Culture Business which will expire after the completion of the divestiture of the
Australian Cell Culture Business to the Approved Purchaser and the actions which
will be taken to ensure they are replaced, renewed and/orrenegotiated on
commercial terms favourable to the Australian Cell Culture Business;
(d) personnel planning to maintain appropriate personnellevels and ensure that the
Australian Cell Culture Business has access to all personnel necessary to operate
the Australian Cell Culture Business;
(e) any Material Changes to the Australian Cell Culture Business required in order to
fun Thermo Fisher's and the Approved Independent Manager's obligations pursuant
to the Undertaking;
(f) the cooperation required from the Independent Manager with Thermo Fisher in
relation to the divestiture of the Australian Cell Culture Business. including:
co the method by which due diligence information, site visits and personnel
interviews Ifany) by and to prospective purchasers of the Australian Cell
Culture Business will be managed;
00 the method by which the Independent Manager and Thermo Fisher will
preserve the confidentiality of the Australian Ceil Culture Business'
competitiveIy sensitive information from Thermo Fisher and its advisers
throughoutthis process; and
(iii) a protocolwhereby the Approved Independent Manager can provide any
information requested by Thermo Fisher without disclosing the details of the
Australian Cell Culture Business' competitive Iy sensitive information to
Thermo Fisher.
(b)
page 139
.............
