Page 1 of 18 
 
Public Competition Assessment 
25 February 2014 
Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc – proposed acquisition of Life 
Technologies Corporation 
Introduction 
1. On 19 December 2013, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission 
(ACCC) announced its decision not to oppose the proposed acquisition of Life 
Technologies Corporation by Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc (proposed 
acquisition), subject to section 87B undertakings accepted by the ACCC on 19 
December 2013 (the undertakings). The ACCC decided that the proposed 
acquisition, in conjunction with the undertakings, would be unlikely to have the 
effect of substantially lessening competition in the markets for the manufacture and 
supply of foetal bovine serum (FBS) sourced from Australia and New Zealand, the 
supply of cell culture media, and the supply of siRNA in Australia in contravention 
of section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the Act). 
2. The ACCC made its decision on the basis of the information provided by the 
merger parties and information arising from its market inquiries. This Public 
Competition Assessment outlines the basis on which the ACCC has reached its 
decision on the proposed acquisition, subject to confidentiality considerations. 
Public Competition Assessment 
3. To provide an enhanced level of transparency and procedural fairness in its 
decision making process, the ACCC issues a Public Competition Assessment for 
all transaction proposals where: 
 
a merger is opposed; 
 
a merger is subject to enforceable undertakings; 
 
the merger parties seek such disclosure; or 
 
a merger is not opposed but raises important issues that the ACCC 
considers should be made public. 
4. This Public Competition Assessment has been issued because Thermo Fisher 
Scientific Inc’s proposed acquisition of Life Technologies Corporation is subject to 
a court enforceable undertaking. 
5. By issuing Public Competition Assessments, the ACCC aims to provide the public 
with a better understanding of the ACCC's analysis of various markets and the 


 
Page 2 of 18 
associated merger and competition issues. It also alerts the public to 
circumstances where the ACCC’s assessment of the competition conditions in 
particular markets is changing, or likely to change. 
6. Each Public Competition Assessment is specific to the particular transaction under 
review by the ACCC. While some transaction proposals may involve the same or 
related markets, it should not be assumed that the analysis and decision outlined 
in one Public Competition Assessment will be conclusive of the ACCC’s view in 
respect of other transaction proposals, as each matter will be considered on its 
own merits. 
7. Public Competition Assessments outline the ACCC’s principal reasons for forming 
views on a proposed acquisition at the time the decision was made. As such Public 
Competition Assessments may not definitively identify and explain all issues that 
the ACCC considers arise from a proposed acquisition. Further, the ACCC’s 
decisions generally involve consideration of both non-confidential and confidential 
information provided by the merger parties and market participants. In order to 
maintain the confidentiality of particular information, Public Competition 
Assessments do not contain any confidential information or its sources. 
The parties 
8. Thermo Fisher and Life Technologies (the merger parties) are global companies 
that operate in the life sciences sector.  
Thermo Fisher 
9. Thermo Fisher is a diversified global manufacturing company. Its principal activity 
is the production and sale of analytical instruments, scientific equipment, 
consumables, reagents, services and software for research, analysis, discovery 
and diagnostics.  
10. Thermo Fisher’s business in Australia includes the distribution of scientific 
instruments and consumables to scientific, environmental and medical customers, 
the manufacture and sale of mining analysis equipment, the provision of infomatics 
solutions, chemical manufacturing, the distribution of medical testing equipment 
and reagents, serum manufacturing, the manufacture of microbiological culture, 
and the sale of chromatography systems.  
Life Technologies 
11. Life Technologies is a global biotechnology tools company. It is active in the 
production and supply of technologies for a range of life sciences applications, 
including gene sequencing, polymerase chain reaction, sample preparation, cell 
culture, RNA interference analysis, functional genomics research, proteomics and 
cell biology applications, as well as clinical diagnostic applications, forensics and 
animal, food, pharmaceutical and water testing analysis. 
12. In Australia, Life Technologies distributes its products in the areas of protein 
biology, molecular biology, cell culture and transplant diagnostics. It also produces 
sera in Australia and New Zealand.  


 
Page 3 of 18 
Other industry participants 
13. As explained further below, the primary areas in which the merger parties both 
supply products are cell culture, molecular biology and protein biology. Other 
suppliers in these areas are set out below. 
Table 1: Key competitors 
Supplier 
Cell culture Molecular biology Protein biology 
Bio-Rad 
 
 
 
GE Healthcare 
 
 
 
Merck Millipore 
 
 
 
Moregate Biotech 
 
 
 
New England Biolabs 
 
 
 
Promega 
 
 
 
Qiagen 
 
 
 
Roche 
 
 
 
Serana 
 
 
 
Sigma-Aldrich 
 
 
 
The proposed transaction 
14. Thermo Fisher proposed to acquire all of the shares of Life Technologies. 
15. Thermo Fisher sought regulatory clearance for the proposed acquisition in other 
jurisdictions, including the United States, the European Union, New Zealand, 
Canada and China. 
Review timeline 
16. The following table outlines the timeline of key events in this matter. 
Date 
Event 
20-Sep-2013 
 
11-Oct-2013 
 
11-Nov-2013 
 
 
 
13-Dec-2013 
 
 
19-Dec-2013 
 
ACCC commenced review under the Merger Process Guidelines. 
 
Closing date for submissions from interested parties. 
 
ACCC timeline suspended and former proposed decision date of 
14 November 2013 delayed to allow the merger parties to provide 
additional information to the ACCC.  
 
Thermo Fisher provided additional information to the ACCC. ACCC 
timeline recommenced. 
 
ACCC announced it would not oppose the proposed acquisition, subject 
to a section 87B undertaking accepted by ACCC.  
 
 


 
Page 4 of 18 
Market inquiries 
17. The ACCC conducted market inquiries with a range of industry participants 
including suppliers, customers, competitors of the merger parties and interested 
third parties.  
18. Submissions were sought in relation to the substantive competition issues and 
targeted inquiries were conducted regarding the undertakings. 
Future with/without the proposed acquisition 
19. Section 50 of the Act prohibits mergers or acquisitions that would have the effect or 
be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. In 
assessing a proposed acquisition pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC 
considers the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future competitive 
environment post-acquisition if the acquisition proceeds (the “with” position) to the 
likely future competitive environment if the acquisition does not proceed (the 
“without” position) to determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in any relevant market. 
20. In the absence of the proposed acquisition, the ACCC considered that the likely 
future competitive environment would be the status quo, that is, both Thermo 
Fisher and Life Technologies would continue to operate as independent, viable 
and effective competitors in the relevant markets.  
Areas of overlap 
Table 2: List of products supplied in Australia by both merger parties 
Area 
Products 
Cell culture 
Calf sera 
FBS 
Media 
Standard process liquids 
Molecular 
biology 
Gene silencing effectors 
siRNA 
shRNA 
 
Delivery 
Transfection reagents 
 
Nucleic acid synthesis  
Oligonucleotides 
 
Gene content  
Standard genes 
 
 
Cloning enzymes 
Restriction enzymes 
Modifying enzymes 
 
Nucleic acid purification 
Agarose gel  
Horizontal gel boxes 
Magnetic bead-based instruments 
NA purification kits 
Nucleic acid / molecular weight standards 


 
Page 5 of 18 
Area 
Products 
 
Nucleic acid amplification 
Thermal cyclers 
qPCR instruments and PCR instruments  
Taq polymerase, high fidelity polymerase, 
Hot Start polymerase, other specialty 
polymerase 
PCR kits, RT PCR kits, dye based qPCR 
kits 
RT enzymes 
cDNA synthesis kits 
Protein 
biology 
Protein expression 
In vitro expression 
 
Protein isolation and 
purification 
Affinity chromatography kits 
Cell lysis detergents, reagents and 
protease inhibitors 
SDS-PAGE vertical gel boxes, power 
supplies, pre-cast gels and gel stains  
 
Protein detection, 
identification and 
quantification 
ELISA assays  
Western blotting membranes, 
chemiluminescent substrates and transfer 
boxes  
 
Protein modification 
Chemical modification reagents 
Cross-linking reagents 
Proteases 
 
Antibodies 
Biotin reagents 
Immunoassays – primary antibodies and 
secondary antibodies 
Streptavidin and Avidin reagents 
 
Other 
Mass spectrometry  
Reactive dyes 
Western blotting – detection kits 
Transplant diagnostics 
Tests 
Liquid chromatography 
Analytical HPLC columns 
Fluorescent spectroscopy 
Fluorescent spectroscopy 
Particles 
Magnetics 
Industry background 
21. The life sciences sector comprises a number of interrelated fields which involve the 
scientific study of living organisms, from microorganisms to human beings. For 
example: 


 
Page 6 of 18 
 
biochemistry – the study of chemical processes within and relating to living 
organisms (for example, structures, functions and interactions of proteins, 
nucleic acids, carbohydrates and lipids); 
 
biotechnology – technological applications that use biological systems to 
make or modify products or processes for specific uses, which 
predominantly have had applications in medical, agricultural, industrial and 
environmental applications; 
 
cell biology – the study of the physiological composition of cells, which is 
fundamental to all biological sciences and is closely related to genetics, 
and other developmental biologies; 
 
molecular biology – the application of recombinant DNA, DNA sequencing 
methods and bioinformatics to sequence, assemble and analyse the 
function and structure of genomics (the complete set of DNA within a 
single cell of an organism);  
 
protein biology – the study of the structure and functions of proteins. 
22. The applications of life sciences products range from pharmaceutical and 
biotechnology manufacturing processes, to academic and government 
applications, and to industrial and applied uses such as healthcare. 
23. The primary overlaps in the products supplied by the merger parties are in the 
areas of cell culture, molecular biology and protein biology. Within these broad 
product categories, there are several relevant product markets. However, this 
Public Competition Assessment primarily focuses on the areas where the 
proposed acquisition raised competition concerns, due to the closeness of 
competition between the merger parties and where market inquiries indicated that 
the merged entity was not likely to be adequately constrained by existing 
competitors or new entrants in the relevant markets.  
24. Accordingly, the remainder of this Public Competition Assessment outlines the 
ACCC’s competition assessment in the areas of Cell Culture and Molecular 
Biology. The ACCC did not identify any competition concerns in the field of protein 
biology. Therefore, protein biology markets are not considered further in this Public 
Competition Assessment. 
25. In addition, the ACCC considered the potential for the merged entity to foreclose 
competition in other markets. This is outlined further below. 
Cell culture 
Overview 
26. 'Cell culture' describes the process of growing cells from plants, animals, or other 
sources (e.g. bacteria) in artificial environments. Cell culture is used to grow cells 
for use in academic research and vaccine production. 
27. Cell culture products can be categorised into the areas of sera, media, and 
standard process liquids.  
28. The supply of foetal bovine serum and the supply of cell culture media were 
identified by the ACCC as areas of competition concern relating to the proposed 
acquisition.  


 
Page 7 of 18 
Sera and foetal bovine sera 
29. Cell culture sera are blood-based liquids that are a by-product of the meat 
processing industry. They contain growth factors, proteins and other biological 
components which are combined with cell culture media to provide an advanced 
level of nutrients to facilitate the growth of cells for further research and product 
development by end users.  
30. Foetal serum is often preferred to serum from more mature animals since it 
contains a higher level of hormones, growth factors, and lower levels of antibodies. 
While there are many types of animals from which sera can be derived, the most 
significant portion of the sera market is made up of foetal bovine sera (FBS). This 
is because of the abundance of cows and their large volume of foetal blood relative 
to other animals. 
31. Since FBS is a biologically-sourced product, its precise content is inherently 
inconsistent, so many customers engage in batch testing. This involves the testing 
of a small sample of FBS from a number of suppliers before placing an order.  
Supply chain for FBS 
32. Three stages are generally involved for the transformation of raw foetal blood to 
the final product. These are collection, centrifugation, and filtration. 
 
Collection: Raw foetal blood is harvested in a sterile room within an 
abattoir.  
 
Centrifugation: Raw foetal blood yields raw serum (raw FBS) after it is 
spun in a centrifuge and separated. Raw foetal blood is either spun on-site 
at the abattoir before being sold or is supplied to an intermediary or reseller 
who spins it.  
 
Filtration: Raw FBS must be filtered before it can be sold as a final 
product (processed FBS). This is done either by intermediaries or, more 
commonly, by resellers (including the merger parties). Abattoirs do not 
typically possess the sterile facilities necessary for filtration. The filtered 
serum is bottled, branded, and sold to end customers in the bio-
manufacturing or research sectors both in Australia and overseas. 
Intermediaries 
33. The primary role of intermediaries is to source raw foetal blood from abattoirs. In 
general, intermediaries also centrifuge raw foetal blood, while some may also filter 
the resultant raw sera into FBS for sale to end customers. Some, but not all 
intermediaries are involved in centrifugation and sterile filtering. As such they may 
be suppliers of raw FBS only, or competitors in the supply of processed FBS. 
Where intermediaries are not involved in any part of the sera manufacturing 
process, they provide value to customers (resellers) through their established 
commercial relationships with abattoirs, and vice versa).  
Resellers 
34. The suppliers of the final FBS product to end users are known as resellers. These 
include the merger parties. As well as selling to end customers, resellers may 
engage in the upstream activities of centrifuging raw foetal blood and sterile 
filtration of raw FBS, as well as the bottling stage of the manufacturing process.  


 
Page 8 of 18 
End users 
35. End users for processed FBS can generally be grouped into two categories, 
comprising scientists in the academic research sector, and companies in the 
pharmaceutical manufacturing sector. In Australia, the majority of end users and 
customers of FBS are in the research sector and typically comprise university 
departments, research institutes, and specialised laboratories.  
Australian and New Zealand-sourced FBS 
36. FBS sourced from Australia and New Zealand is perceived to be of a higher quality 
than FBS sourced from other countries because biodiseases such as mad cow 
disease have never been known to occur in either country. This is of particular 
concern for customers using FBS for therapeutic applications, but other customers, 
including research institutions, also consider Australian and New Zealand sourced 
FBS to be superior. Australian and New Zealand FBS therefore commands a 
substantial price premium relative to sera from other countries. 
Cell culture media and standard process liquids 
37. Cell culture media are powders or liquids that promote cell growth through 
supplying cells with essential nutrients such as basic amino acids. Standard 
process liquids are saline solutions and water-based buffers which facilitate the cell 
culture process and ensure that the cell culture environment remains at a constant 
pH. 
38. Thermo Fisher and Life Technologies sell their cell culture media and standard 
process liquids under the brands of HyClone and Gibco, respectively. 
Molecular biology 
39. Molecular biology is concerned with the study of the molecular components 
present in the cells of living organisms, primarily RNA and DNA. The study of 
molecular biology and, in particular, the function of genes within cells, is of 
important application to academic and bio-industrial researchers, for example in 
developing new therapies for particular diseases, or producing crops capable of 
generating greater yields. 
40. Molecular biology techniques have applications in a number of end-use segments, 
including diagnostics, microbiology, forensics and agriculture. 
41. The merger parties supply several products which are used in molecular biology 
processes. Within this range of products, the merger parties were found to be 
particularly close competitors in respect of products supplied for a process known 
as gene modification. This is a process where the functions and characteristics of 
genes (known in the industry as gene ‘expression’) can be studied either by 
promoting or suppressing a gene.  
42. In particular, the merger parties supply a product known as siRNA, a type of gene 
effector which is used to silence genes for a short period of time. The supply of 
siRNA was the only area of molecular biology identified by the ACCC’s market 
inquiries as an area of competition concern relating to the proposed acquisition. 
43. siRNA products are commonly sold in portfolios known in the life sciences industry 
as ‘libraries’. A library is a collection of individual siRNAs. Market inquiries 
indicated that some customers buy individual siRNA which target individual genes, 


 
Page 9 of 18 
while other customers obtain products to conduct research across the entire 
genome. The merger parties supply libraries which can comprise thousands of 
individual siRNAs, each one designed to target a specific gene. There are also 
sub-libraries within that collection that target a subset of the human genome. Some 
sub-libraries are associated with a particular pathway, for example the cell growth 
pathway. A research group may only be interested in that pathway, and so acquire 
the sub-library for that pathway. Market participants noted that the merger parties 
were market leaders in this respect. 
Market definition 
44. The ACCC has considered in some detail the relevant markets in relation to the 
supply of processed FBS and siRNA, since these were principal areas of concern 
arising from the proposed acquisition.  
Geographic dimension – all markets 
45. The ACCC has observed that suppliers of life sciences products are often active 
globally. In many cases, it is not necessary to have manufacturing capabilities in 
Australia in order to supply Australian customers. However, market inquiries have 
indicated that the geographic scope of the relevant markets (including the supply of 
FBS) is no more than Australia-wide due to the following factors: 
 
Not all suppliers may be active in Australia. 
 
Those suppliers that are active in Australia may not sell their full range of 
products in Australia.  
 
Prices may not be set by reference to global prices. 
 
Suppliers may need to have a subsidiary in Australia or appoint a local 
distributor. 
 
Suppliers may need to engage in local sales, marketing and after-sales 
activities. 
 
Suppliers may need to comply with local regulatory requirements. 
46. The relevance of these factors varies as between the different products supplied 
by the merger parties, but some or all of them apply to each product. 
47. Market inquiries have not suggested that any of the relevant markets are narrower 
than Australia-wide. 
48. The ACCC therefore considers that the relevant geographic scope of the markets 
affected by the proposed acquisition is Australia-wide. This means that global 
suppliers not already active in Australia would be considered as potential new 
entrants. 
Market One – Processed FBS  
Product dimension 
49. As noted above, the merger parties are major suppliers of processed FBS, which is 
processed from raw blood sourced directly from abattoirs or via an intermediary. 
With regard to the merger parties’ products, the ACCC’s market inquiries indicated 
that: 


 
Page 10 of 18 
 
calf or adult bovine sera are not substitutes for FBS; 
 
sera sourced from other animals is not a substitute for FBS; 
 
FBS is sourced primarily from cattle in Australia, New Zealand, the United 
States and Canada; 
 
due to the relative absence of disease in cattle, Australian and New 
Zealand FBS are regarded as superior to FBS sourced from other 
countries and therefore attract a higher price; 
 
Australian and New Zealand FBS are regarded as essentially equivalent; 
 
for some customers, particularly those manufacturing products for 
therapeutic use in humans, FBS from countries other than Australia or New 
Zealand is not an alternative to Australian or New Zealand FBS. 
50. The ACCC therefore considered the relevant product market was likely to be no 
wider than the supply of FBS; and Australian and New Zealand FBS either 
constitute a distinct product market or a distinct segment of the market for the 
supply of FBS. 
51. As explained in the Industry background section above, market inquiries indicated 
that Australian and New Zealand FBS suppliers source FBS: 
 
by acquiring raw foetal blood from abattoirs, centrifuging it to produce raw 
FBS, then filtering and bottling it to produce processed FBS; and/or 
 
by acquiring raw FBS from abattoirs or intermediaries (i.e. after they have 
centrifuged the raw foetal blood) then filtering and bottling it to produce 
processed FBS. 
52. In either case, the product supplied to end customers is processed FBS and 
suppliers compete in relation to the price and quality of that processed FBS. 
Competition analysis 
Unilateral effects: Absent the undertakings, the proposed acquisition would give 
the merged entity market power in the supply of processed FBS, particularly 
Australian and New Zealand FBS 
53. Market inquiries indicated that Thermo Fisher and Life Technologies are close 
competitors for the supply of FBS to end users on the basis of the volumes they 
are capable of supplying and the strength of their brands and reputations for 
supplying very high quality FBS. The merger parties’ strong reputations for 
producing high quality processed FBS reinforces their place as buyers of the raw 
materials necessary to manufacture and supply processed FBS. 
54. This section sets out a number of factors underpinning the closeness of 
competition between the merger parties, which were relevant to the ACCC’s 
overall assessment.  
Brand  
55. Market inquiries indicated that the merger parties have particularly strong brands 
for the supply of cell culture products. However, since FBS customers tend to test 
each batch of FBS that they acquire, ultimately the performance of the sera against 
quality, volume and price metrics will determine which suppliers are chosen by 
end-users, rather than simply brand reputation. Nonetheless, the ACCC’s market 


 
Page 11 of 18 
inquiries indicated that brand reputation is very significant in cell culture markets. 
For example: 
 
The volumes of raw foetal blood or raw FBS ultimately supplied by 
abattoirs and intermediaries are unpredictable and the material is 
expensive.  
 
Testing batches of FBS can also take a considerable amount of time.  
 
To minimise these factors, many customers only test FBS from a limited 
range of suppliers. The brand reputation is highly relevant to the selection 
of (and indeed awareness of) potential FBS suppliers. In some cases, 
customers only test batches supplied by the merger parties, whose brand 
reputation was established and is supported by its ability to supply a large 
customer base globally. 
Relationships with upstream suppliers 
56. Market inquiries indicated that outside the merger parties, there are limited 
alternative sources of supply. Sigma-Aldrich was the only other supplier of 
processed FBS that was generally identified by customers.  
57. The ability to secure supply of a scarce resource is partly a function of FBS 
resellers’ long-standing commercial relationships with abattoirs and intermediaries. 
The ACCC understands that abattoirs typically sell all the raw foetal blood 
collected to a single customer. In addition, intermediaries carefully select their 
customers, having regard to a number of factors including the long-term strategy, 
reputation, knowledge and customer base of the potential purchaser.  
58. Market inquiries indicated that the merger parties have strong commercial 
relationships with abattoirs and/or intermediaries in Australia and New Zealand, 
largely due to their strong position in the downstream supply of processed FBS to 
end-users. 
Barriers to entry and expansion 
Procurement of and expansion of supply 
59. The ACCC’s market inquiries suggest that there are material fixed costs involved in 
being able to take supply of and process raw foetal blood over a period of time. 
Abattoirs do not typically sell their supply of raw foetal blood to multiple customers. 
This means that prospective entrants (or smaller intermediaries and resellers) may 
not have the necessary infrastructure, financial capital and established customer 
base to be able to viably participate in some tenders.  
60. The ability to be able to reliably purchase and manage the supply of raw foetal 
blood or raw FBS consistently is an important consideration when abattoirs and 
intermediaries choose their customers for raw foetal blood or raw FBS. Relevant 
factors include a strong brand, reliable customer base, and favourable reputation 
and track record. 
61. The ACCC’s market inquiries have indicated that not all types of abattoirs may be 
suited to collecting raw foetal blood, and that most (if not all) abattoirs which are 
capable of collecting raw foetal blood already do so.  
Role of industry relationships 
62. The ACCC’s market inquiries indicated that relationships between abattoirs, 
intermediaries, and resellers are important in the supply decision for raw foetal 


 
Page 12 of 18 
blood and raw FBS, and that these may serve to hinder potential new entry, 
supplier-switching, and bypassing of the merger parties by end users. 
63. Commercial relationships between abattoirs and intermediaries are often 
established over a long period of time and may span a wider breadth of products 
and operations than raw foetal blood. That is, relationships between intermediaries 
and abattoirs may extend and have originated from different areas to raw foetal 
blood (a by-product). 
Likelihood of competitive constraint from existing competitors 
64. The ACCC considered whether, post-acquisition, the merged entity would be 
constrained by:  
 
other FBS resellers – the key competitor in this regard is Sigma-Aldrich. 
Smaller competitors include Moregate, Serana, Bovagen, GE Healthcare 
and Merck Millipore;  
 
other participants in the supply chain, in particular, intermediaries and 
abattoirs who may be able to integrate down the supply chain and supply 
processed FBS to end customers; 
 
end customers, who may be able to bypass the merged entity and acquire 
raw FBS or processed FBS directly from intermediaries and abattoirs. 
65. The ACCC concluded that the merged entity is unlikely to be competitively 
constrained by existing competitors and other market participants for the following 
reasons: 
 
The other resellers constitute a relatively small volume of the processed 
FBS supplied to end customers, and are constrained in their ability to 
acquire greater volumes of raw foetal blood or raw FBS (see ‘Barriers to 
entry and expansion’ above). This means that those resellers would not be 
likely to expand their supply of processed FBS to customers to a level that 
is likely to be sufficient to constrain the merger parties. 
 
The barriers to forward-integration into the supply of processed FBS by 
abattoirs are high – the ACCC’s market inquiries have indicated that:  
o the processes of sterile filtration and dispensing/bottling are technically 
complex and require specialised equipment requiring significant capital 
outlays; and 
o abattoirs are extremely unlikely to possess the facilities and technical 
expertise necessary to engage in both the centrifugation of raw foetal 
blood and the sterile filtration of raw FBS and dispensing of the final 
product. 
66. The ACCC’s market inquiries have indicated that end-users are not typically able 
to bypass resellers:  
 
The supply of raw foetal blood and raw FBS from abattoirs is not generally 
available to end customers, due to abattoirs’ long standing commercial 
relationships with intermediaries.  
 
Many customers face budget constraints, knowledge and technical 
barriers, staffing requirements, difficulty establishing the required logistical 
arrangements, and the need to ensure quality control across batches. Only 
a few customers, such as pharmaceutical manufacturing companies, may 
have the facilities necessary for sterile filtration and bottling. 


 
Page 13 of 18 
67. The ACCC considered that absent the undertakings, the proposed acquisition 
would be likely to substantially lessen competition in the market for the supply of 
FBS in Australia, by further strengthening the position of the merged entity in the 
supply of FBS and eliminating the actual or potential competitive constraint 
between the merger parties. In particular, the ACCC considered that post-
acquisition, Thermo Fisher would have the ability and incentive to raise prices for 
the supply of processed FBS.  
Market Two – siRNA reagents  
Market definition 
68. As noted in the section titled ‘Areas of Overlap’, the merger parties both supply 
gene silencing products known as ‘Small Interfering RNA’, known as ‘siRNA’, and 
‘Short Hairpin RNA’, or ‘shRNA’. As the main area of overlap and increase in 
market concentration as a result of the proposed acquisition would be in the supply 
of siRNA, the ACCC considered whether there is a distinct product market for 
siRNA or whether it was a part of a broader market for gene silencing products. 
69. Market inquiries indicated that siRNA and shRNA are the two principal gene 
silencing technologies. While they are both used to silence genes, there are 
functional differences between the two products. Principally, these differences 
relate to the duration of the effects of applying these products – siRNA delivers a 
short term effect on a gene, while shRNA delivers a longer-lasting reaction. The 
latter was described in market inquiries as more complex for end-users to use and 
having limited clinical applications compared to siRNA. 
70. Market inquiries also indicated that end-users typically have very specific functional 
requirements meaning there can be little or no substitutability between different 
types of gene silencing products. Market inquiries indicated that, due to an end-
user’s intended clinical application or research objectives, an increase in the price 
of siRNA is unlikely to cause large numbers of end-users to switch to shRNA or 
any other form of gene silencing product.  
71. Market participants also noted the development of new gene silencing 
technologies, including a technology known as transcription activator-like effector 
nucleases (‘TALENs’). However, market inquiries indicated that neither TALENs 
nor other developing technologies were likely to competitively constrain the supply 
of siRNA in Australia in the foreseeable future.  
72. Accordingly, the ACCC considered it was appropriate to assess the competitive 
effects of the proposed acquisition in a market for the supply of siRNA in Australia. 
Competition analysis 
73. The merger parties are significant suppliers of siRNA in Australia. Market inquiries 
indicated that the merger parties’ position in relation to the supply of these 
products is underpinned by related patents (known as the “Tuschl patents”) which 
have been licensed to only four suppliers. This patent provides for a specific 
design of siRNA product. 
74. The licensed suppliers are the merger parties, Sigma-Aldrich and Qiagen. Between 
them, these four suppliers currently have a very substantial share of supply of 
siRNA in Australia, and no other single supplier has a comparable share of supply 
to any one of them. In addition, market inquiries indicated that many suppliers do 


 
Page 14 of 18 
not provide a full “library” of gene modulation products and so provide only a 
marginal constraint on the merger parties. 
75. Despite there being four licensees to the Tuschl patent of siRNA, market inquiries 
indicated that Thermo Fisher and Life Technologies were the closest competitors 
of each other. Market participants distinguished the merger parties from their 
competitors, mostly on the basis of their capacity to undertake high levels of 
investment in product development and quality assurance processes. Market 
participants considered that these attributes resulted in the merger parties offering 
vast portfolios of siRNA products and product libraries, which were superior in the 
market. 
76. The ACCC considered that barriers to entry into the siRNA market appeared to be 
high. Market inquiries indicated that effective competition in the siRNA market 
requires high levels of investment in R&D and intellectual property, and the 
development of a strong brand reputation and customer relationships, and that 
these entry requirements are high risk and take several years to establish.   
77. In addition, market inquiries suggested that existing or new manufacturers and 
suppliers of siRNA who are not licensees of the Tuschl patent, are limited in their 
ability to compete effectively in the market, relative to the existing licence holders.  
78. The ACCC also understands that it is unlikely that further Tuschl licences will be 
provided. The ACCC therefore considered that the merged entity was not likely to 
be constrained by the threat of new entry in the siRNA market. 
79. The ACCC was therefore concerned that, absent the undertakings, the proposed 
acquisition would be likely to substantially lessen competition in this market. The 
ACCC considered there would be limited competitive constraints on the merged 
entity following the Proposed Acquisition, and that the merged entity would have 
the ability and incentive to reduce innovation and product development, or raise 
prices for the supply of siRNA to customers in Australia.  
Other issues  
Cell culture media  
80. The ACCC’s market inquiries suggested that the proposed acquisition would raise 
competition concerns in the supply of cell culture media. Market participants 
indicated that the merger parties' cell culture media products, and particularly Life 
Technologies' brand, Gibco, are considered superior to those of their rivals.  
81. The closeness of competition between the merger parties was based primarily on 
the strength of their respective brands. Market participants frequently referred to 
the role of brand and trust in the supply of cell culture media, and it was also noted 
that these reputations were to some extent derived from the parties’ strong 
reputations for the supply of FBS. 
82. Market inquiries indicated that some customers may be able to self-supply cell 
culture media to some extent. However, for many customers, self-supply was not a 
viable alternative in the event of a small but significant increase in price or 
decrease in quality of products. 
83. The ACCC did not reach a concluded view on the scope of the relevant market or 
whether the proposed acquisition would be likely to substantially lessen 
competition effects in the supply of cell culture media.  


 
Page 15 of 18 
84. As explained below, the undertakings offered by Thermo Fisher include a 
commitment to divest its entire HyClone business, which incorporates cell culture 
sera and cell culture media. Accordingly, to the extent that the proposed 
acquisition would have raised competition concerns in this market, they would be 
alleviated by the undertakings. 
Other products supplied by the merger parties 
85. The ACCC considered concerns raised by some market participants in relation to 
other products supplied by the merger parties, including Quantitative PCR 
(‘qPCR’) and magnetic bead-based instruments.  
qPCR 
86. (qPCR, also known as 'real-time' PCR) is a technique used in the process of 
copying short segments of DNA molecules. Market inquiries indicated that the 
merger parties are strong competitors in the area of qPCR, with Life Technologies 
possessing particularly leading-edge technology for qPCR systems and a number 
of key patents associated with qPCR. 
87. However, market inquiries indicated that Thermo Fisher does not necessarily 
appear to be a particularly strong competitor in the field of qPCR and that there 
would be alternative suppliers and/or technologies (some of which are continually 
emerging) available to customers. 
Magnetic bead-based instruments 
88. Magnetic bead-based instruments are a type of instrument used in certain 
molecular biology processes. Market inquiries have indicated that these products 
can be supplied within a package of reagents or on a stand-alone basis. The 
ACCC understands that Thermo Fisher manufactures magnetic bead-based 
instruments and supplies these to Life Technologies (among other customers), and 
that Life Technologies resells these products as part of a reagent kit. Market 
participants generally considered that the reagent kits supplied by Life 
Technologies are a particularly close substitute for the instruments supplied by 
Thermo Fisher. 
89. However, Thermo Fisher’s magnetic bead-based instruments are designed as 
open systems, meaning that there are alternative suppliers of reagents and 
reagent kits based on this technology. In addition, since Life Technologies was 
already a reseller of Thermo Fisher magnetic bead-based instruments. The ACCC 
considered this may have limited the degree of competitive constraint that it 
imposed on Thermo Fisher and indicated that other manufacturers of magnetic 
bead-based instruments represent a stronger competitive constraint on Thermo 
Fisher. Therefore, the ACCC considered that the proposed acquisition would not 
increase Thermo Fisher’s ability or incentive to restrict alternative suppliers from 
using its instruments and that alternative suppliers were therefore likely to remain 
available to customers. 
Conclusions on qPCR and magnetic bead-based instruments  
90. The ACCC concluded that the proposed acquisition was not likely to lead to an 
increase in market power constituting a substantial lessening of competition in 
relation to qPCR, magnetic bead-based instruments. 


 
Page 16 of 18 
Potential for vertical foreclosure of rivals 
91. A number of market participants noted that post-acquisition, Thermo Fisher would 
have the ability to supply a vast range of life sciences products. The ACCC 
considered whether, as a result of the proposed acquisition, Thermo Fisher would 
have the ability and incentive to offer a ‘package’ of products to customers on the 
basis that: 
 
a particular product (for instance, product ‘A’) is supplied only if the 
customer also purchases another product (e.g. product ‘B’) (‘tying’); or 
 
customers are supplied a ‘bundle’ of products in such a way that the 
incremental price of product B (for example), is so low that efficient firms 
who only supply product B cannot recover the costs of supply that matches 
the incremental price under the bundle, and are foreclosed from supplying 
those customers who need both products (‘bundling’).  
92. Competition concerns would arise if such conduct would be likely to limit, or raise 
the cost of, rivals’ abilities to access a sufficient customer base, or to deny them 
the ability to access customers altogether. Bundling or tying therefore has the 
potential to reduce the competitive constraint that competitors provide, allowing the 
merged entity to increase the price of a tied product or the overall price of a bundle 
at a later time. 
93. The ACCC considered that for this to arise, the merged firm would need to : 
 
identify a substantial proportion of customers who must purchase both 
products A and B (to use the illustrative example above), whether from one 
or more suppliers; and 
 
have market power in the supply of a particular product, often referred to 
as a 'must have' product (e.g. Product A), which could be combined with 
other products (e.g. Product B) in a way that would foreclose competing 
suppliers from accessing customers of Product B, thus leveraging market 
power in the supply of Product A into the supply of the previously 
competitive Product B.  
94. However, the ACCC’s market inquiries indicated that it was unlikely that these 
conditions would be fully satisfied in the present case. The combination of the 
merger parties’ product portfolios may create a 'one stop shop' that could cover 
some customers’ requirements, which may be an appealing offer to customers. 
Barriers to entry for several life sciences products also appeared to be high. 
However, the ACCC’s market inquiries revealed that: 
 
there isn’t always a ‘must have’ product – that is, the products required by 
many customers, particularly those in the academic research field, may 
differ according to their particular research objectives. Therefore, it did not 
appear likely that a substantial proportion of customers would frequently 
need to purchase a particular combination of products; and in light of this 
 
there are likely to be sufficient competitors who are likely to be capable of 
offering substitutes for the products offered by the merged entity (either 
alone or combined with another product) such that they would not be 
foreclosed from accessing customers who require both products.  
95. The ACCC therefore concluded that the proposed acquisition was not likely to lead 
to foreclosure of the merged entity’s competitors, constituting a substantial 
lessening of competition in any relevant markets. 


 
Page 17 of 18 
Undertakings 
96. Thermo Fisher offered to the ACCC section 87B undertakings in order to address 
the ACCC’s concerns arising from the proposed acquisition. On 19 December 
2013 the ACCC accepted these undertakings. 
97. Given the global nature of Thermo Fisher’s businesses and the supply links 
between Thermo Fisher’s business in Australia and businesses overseas, the 
undertakings rely upon a remedy that the European Commission (EC) has 
accepted from Thermo Fisher (EC commitments).  The ACCC considered 
whether the court enforceable undertakings proposed by Thermo Fisher Scientific 
Inc, pursuant to section 87B of the Act, would address the issues of concern 
identified by the ACCC. 
98. The undertakings provide that Thermo Fisher must: 
(a) divest its Australian cell culture business (a component of the global cell 
culture business to be divested under the EC commitments) to an ACCC-
approved purchaser; 
(b) divest its Australian siRNA business (a component of the global gene 
modulation business to be divested under the EC commitments) to an 
ACCC-approved purchaser; and 
(c) appoint an ACCC-approved Australian-based independent manager, who 
will manage the Australian cell culture business in the period between 
completion of the acquisition and divestiture. 
99. Thermo Fisher offered divestitures of the Australian cell culture business and 
Australian siRNA business in order to address the ACCC’s competition concerns in 
relation to FBS and siRNA reagents respectively. 
100. The Australian cell culture business includes a manufacturing facility in Melbourne 
that processes high quality FBS.  This facility is an important part of the Australian 
FBS market and the global cell culture business. An Australian-based independent 
manager would provide day to day management of the Australian cell culture 
business, including the Melbourne facility, with a view to successfully transitioning 
the business to the approved purchaser.  
101. The ACCC considered the undertakings would remedy the competition concerns 
raised by the proposed acquisition on the basis that they: 
 
will remove the competitive overlap between Thermo Fisher and Life 
Technologies in the national supply of FBS and siRNA reagents;  
 
provide an approved purchaser with the assets, rights and agreements 
necessary to enable the purchaser to compete effectively in Australia in the 
supply of FBS and siRNA reagents;  
 
will bind Thermo Fisher to the EC Commitments as they relate to the 
Australian cell culture and siRNA businesses; 
 
require that Thermo Fisher only divest the divestiture businesses to a 
purchaser or purchasers approved by the ACCC; and 
 
require that Thermo Fisher appoint an ACCC-approved Australian-based 
independent manager to implement the transition of the Australian cell 
culture business, which is an important element of the global supply of 
FBS.  


 
Page 18 of 18 
Conclusion 
102. On the basis of the information outlined above, the ACCC considered that the 
proposed acquisition would raise competition concerns in the market for the supply 
of FBS in Australia and in the market for the supply of siRNA in Australia. 
103. However, taking into account the undertakings, the ACCC formed the view that the 
proposed acquisition of Life Technologies Corporation by Thermo Fisher Scientific 
Inc would not be likely to result in a substantial lessening of competition in the 
market for the manufacture and supply of FBS, cell culture media, or the supply of 
siRNA in Australia, in contravention of section 50 of the Act. 
