 
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
tel: (02) 6243 1368 
mergers@accc.gov.au
www.accc.gov.au
Our ref: IM-71278  
 
Contact officer: Sophia Liu / Will Sommers  
Contact phone: (03) 9290 1437 / (03) 9910 9444 
24 June 2021 
Dear interested party, 
Request for submissions: Are Media Pty Limited’s proposed acquisition of 
Ovato Retail Distribution Pty Ltd 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
the proposed acquisition of Ovato Retail Distribution Pty Ltd (ORD) by Are Media Pty 
Limited (Are Media) (proposed acquisition). 
Are Media is the largest magazine publisher in Australia and ORD operates the largest 
retail distribution network for print magazines in Australia. Further details regarding the 
acquisition can be found at Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact on competition. In particular, we are 
seeking your views on:  
• 
The presence of alternative retail distribution networks for print magazines, and the 
ability for customers to switch between alternative retail distribution networks. 
• 
The likelihood of a price increase for retail distribution of magazines if the proposed 
acquisition proceeds. 
• 
The ability and incentive for a combined Are Media/ORD to foreclose or discriminate 
against competing magazine publishers seeking retail distribution services. 
• 
The extent that the magazine industry is in economic decline and if so, whether the 
industry is likely to recover in the next three years. 
• 
The potential expansion of existing distribution networks (for example, newspaper 
distribution) into the retail distribution of magazines.  
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 


The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
Please provide your response by 5pm on 8 July 2021. Responses may be emailed to 
mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: Submission re: Are Media/ORD - attention Sophia Liu / 
Will Sommers. If you would like to arrange a time to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, 
or have any questions about this letter, please contact Sophia Liu on (03) 9290 1437 or Will 
Sommers on (03) 9910 9444. 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public 
Mergers Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We will not 
disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by 
law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or during court proceedings) or 
in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010.  Where the 
ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, the ACCC will notify you in advance 
where possible so that you may have an opportunity to be heard.  Therefore, if the 
information provided to the ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our 
Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
Daniel McCracken-Hewson 
General Manager  
Merger Investigations Branch  
 


 
Attachment A 
 
The proposed transaction 
 
Are Media proposes to acquire 100% of the issued share capital in ORD.  
 
Are Media 
 
Are Media is an Australian and New Zealand premium content and experiences company, 
with a range of print and digital publications. Are Media was formerly known as Bauer 
Media and its portfolio of print and digital publications includes those it acquired in 2020 
through its acquisition of Pacific Magazines. 
 
Are Media has an extensive portfolio of brands across the entertainment and lifestyle, 
fashion and beauty, home and garden, food, parenting, and auto categories. Titles 
published by Are Media include The Australian Women’s Weekly, New Idea, Better Homes 
& Gardens and Marie Claire.  
 
ORD 
 
ORD is a wholly-owned subsidiary and business unit of Ovato Limited (Ovato). Are Media 
currently holds a 16.4% shareholding in Ovato. The proposed transaction does not include 
Ovato’s Residential Distribution business which provides delivery of addressed and 
unaddressed mass and targeted catalogues, product samples and newspapers directly to 
letter boxes. 
 
ORD operates the largest retail distribution network for print magazines in Australia. ORD 
provides magazine publishers with a national delivery service twice per week to 
newsagents, supermarkets and other retailers. ORD was formerly known as Gordon & 
Gotch. 
 
The main assets of ORD are leased facilities in Sydney for warehousing, machinery for the 
pick-pack and dispatch of magazines, IT software and systems for the management of 
magazine allocations and support operations providing management services, allocations, 
billing and account management.  
 
ORD also operates “TheMarketHub”, a newsagent e-commerce hub that enhances the 
product range available to newsagents. TheMarketHub provides newsagents with access 
to more than 3,000 products from over 60 suppliers, including gifts, toys, games, puzzles, 
candles, stationery, books, and general merchandise (other products). 
 
  


 
Attachment B 
1. 
Provide a brief description of your business or organisation, including any 
commercial relationship/s you have with either of Are Media or ORD. 
Retail Distribution Services 
Questions for all  
2. 
Comment on the extent that the magazine industry is in economic decline and 
if so, whether the industry is likely to recover in the next three years. 
3. 
Outline your views on barriers to entry and expansion and the likelihood of any 
new entry or expansion in the supply of retail distribution services for 
magazines. In your response, comment on:  
a. Any examples of recent new entry or expansion. 
b. What a new entrant would require to set up a retail distribution network 
like ORD’s and be able to deliver time sensitive magazines on a national 
scale.  
c. What an existing supplier of retail distribution services would need (e.g. 
personnel, funding, other) to expand their services and be able to deliver 
time sensitive magazines on a national scale. 
d. How quickly such new entry or expansion could occur. 
4. 
Comment on whether other types of distributors (such as newspaper 
distributors or logistics companies) could supply retail distribution services for 
magazines. In your response, comment on (if applicable): 
a. Whether these alternative types of distributors would be able to deliver 
your magazines nationally and within your required timeframes. 
b. Whether these alternative types of distributors offer similar prices and 
service to ORD’s retail distribution network.  
Questions for customers of ORD    
5. 
Provide a list of any alternative providers of retail distribution services for 
magazine publishers.  
6. 
Comment on the ability for magazine publishers to switch between competing 
retail distribution service providers. 
7. 
Comment on the likelihood of a price increase for retail distribution services if 
the proposed acquisition proceeds. 
8. 
Comment on the ability and incentive of a combined Are Media/ORD to 
foreclose or discriminate against competing magazine publishers seeking retail 
distribution services. 
Questions for competitors of Are Media 
9. 
Do you consider that your magazine titles compete (e.g. on price and/or 
content) with those of Are Media? If possible, provide switching data to support 
your views. 
10. 
Describe how your business would respond if ORD’s prices for retail 


 
distribution services of magazines increased post-merger (between 5% to 
10%).  
Questions for operators of distribution networks and potential competitors to ORD 
11. 
Comment on the ability of your business to provide distribution services for time 
sensitive magazine titles on a national scale. 
12. 
Describe how your business would respond if ORD’s prices for retail 
distribution services of magazines increased post-merger (between 5% to 
10%).  
Questions for retail outlets 
13. 
Comment on how you would respond to a price rise for the acquisition of 
magazines and other products (e.g. puzzles, games, toys, stationery) 
purchased from “TheMarketHub”, if the proposed acquisition proceeds. 
14. 
Comment on whether the merged entity could practically tie or bundle its goods 
or services together (e.g. its magazine products, other products, and retail 
distribution services) when supplying to you. 
Any additional information  
15. 
Provide any additional information or comments relevant to the ACCC’s 
consideration of the proposed acquisition.  
