Page 1 of 19 
 
Statement of Issues 
28 October 2021 
 Cargotec – proposed merger with Konecranes 
Purpose 
1. 
Cargotec Corporation (Cargotec) proposes to merge with Konecranes Plc 
(Konecranes) pursuant to a combination agreement under Finnish law.  
2. 
This Statement of Issues: 
• 
gives the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission’s (ACCC) 
preliminary views on competition issues arising from the proposed merger,  
• 
identifies areas of further inquiry, and 
• 
invites interested parties to submit comments and information to assist our 
assessment of the issues. 
3. 
Statements of Issues do not refer to confidential information provided by the 
parties or other market participants and therefore may not fully articulate the 
ACCC’s preliminary position. 
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views 
4. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed merger is 
section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the CCA). Section 50 
prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of 
substantially lessening competition in any market. 
5. 
The ACCC divides its preliminary views into three categories, 'issues of concern', 
'issues that may raise concerns' and ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’.  


Cargotec – proposed acquisition of Konecranes 
 
Page 2 of 19 
Issues of concern 
Reduction of suppliers of straddle and shuttle carriers in Australia from two to one 
6. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed merger is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in the supply of manual and automated straddle 
carriers and shuttle carriers to Australian customers.  
7. 
Cargotec and Konecranes are the two largest global suppliers of straddle 
carriers and shuttle carriers, and are each other’s closest competitors, with over 
90 percent global market share combined. Other than lower-powered mini-
straddle carriers described in paragraph 50 below, Cargotec and Konecranes 
are the only competitors who have supplied straddle carriers in Australia.  
8. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the only potential alternative supplier 
(ZPMC) and the threat of new entry or expansion will not provide a strong 
competitive constraint on a combined Cargotec/Konecranes post-merger. This 
means that the proposed merger is likely to lead to a substantial lessening of 
competition and, for example, higher prices, reduced innovation and/or lower 
service levels for customers. 
Reduction in the current suppliers of gantry cranes in Australia from three to two 
9. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed merger is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in the supply of gantry cranes to customers in 
Australia. This includes variants such as automated and manual rail-mounted 
and rubber-tyred gantries.1  
10. 
Cargotec is the largest supplier of gantry cranes in Australia, having supplied 
over 70 percent of gantry cranes over the past 7 years. Together, Cargotec and 
Konecranes have supplied over 90 percent of gantry cranes in Australia over the 
past 7 years. 
11. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that alternative suppliers and the threat of new 
entry or expansion will not provide a strong competitive constraint on a combined 
Cargotec/Konecranes post-merger. This means that the proposed merger is 
likely to lead to a substantial lessening of competition and, for example, higher 
prices, a reduced product and services range, or lower service levels for 
customers. 
Issues that may raise concerns 
Consolidation in suppliers of mobile equipment 
12. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed merger may substantially 
lessen competition in the supply of mobile equipment to Australian customers.2  
13. 
The merged entity would become one of the largest supplier of mobile 
equipment in Australia, with approximately 40 percent share of supply of certain 
types of mobile equipment over the past three years. The merged entity would 
 
 
1 Gantry cranes do not include ship-to-shore and mobile harbour cranes. 
2 Mobile equipment includes reach stackers, container handlers, and heavy forklift trucks.  


Cargotec – proposed acquisition of Konecranes 
 
Page 3 of 19 
face a strong competitive constraint only from Hyster (Adaptalift), and to a lesser 
extent from Clark Equipment, Sany and some smaller suppliers. 
Foreclosure of competitors in aftersales services 
14. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed merger may substantially 
lessen competition in the supply of aftersales services for container handling 
equipment to Australian customers. 
15. 
The merged entity may have the ability and incentive to restrict the supply of 
technical manuals, diagnostics equipment and spare parts to its customers. This 
would effectively shut out its competitors from providing the aftersales service of 
the container handling equipment that it supplies, particularly straddle and 
shuttle carriers, and gantry cranes.  
Issues unlikely to raise concerns 
Supply of ship-to-shore cranes   
16. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is the proposed merger is unlikely to substantially 
lessen competition in the supply of ship-to-shore cranes (STS cranes).  
17. 
Globally Cargotec and Konecranes supplied less than 5 percent of ship-to-shore 
cranes over the past 3 years, and would face a strong competitive constraint 
from a number of alternative suppliers post-merger. 
Supply of crane spreaders to container handling equipment manufacturers3 
18. 
The ACCC has considered whether the merged entity may have the ability and 
incentive to restrict sales of its market leading Bromma brand container handling 
spreaders to other manufacturers of container handling cranes. Our preliminary 
view is that such a strategy is unlikely to ultimately result in the substantial 
lessening of competition in any Australian markets.  
19. 
We have not found any evidence that Cargotec currently supplies spreaders to 
its competitors on unfavourable terms, and the ACCC’s preliminary view is that 
the proposed merger is unlikely to change Cargotec’s ability and incentive to 
engage in this strategy. Further, a number of alternative suppliers would provide 
competitive constraint over a combined Cargotec/Konecranes post-merger, 
including RAM, Stinnis, and Elme. In addition, some quay and gantry crane 
suppliers like ZPMC and Kuenz are able to self-supply spreaders.   
Making a submission 
20. 
The ACCC invites submissions from interested parties, particularly on the 
following key issues: 
• 
the extent to which alternative suppliers of straddle and shuttle carriers, 
gantry cranes, and mobile equipment will be able to compete with a 
combined Cargotec/Konecranes, 
 
 
3 A spreader is the piece of container handling equipment that grips the container. 


Cargotec – proposed acquisition of Konecranes 
 
Page 4 of 19 
• 
the impact of increased consolidation in suppliers of straddle and shuttle 
carriers, gantry cranes, and mobile equipment, 
• 
the impact of the proposed merger on the supply of aftersales services 
including maintenance and spare parts, and 
• 
the impact of the proposed merger on customers who acquire automated 
container handling equipment.  
21. 
Interested parties should provide submissions by 5pm on 19 November 2021. 
Responses may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: Submission 
re: Cargotec/Konecranes - attention Will Sommers/Ben Roberts. If you would like 
to discuss the matter with ACCC staff or have any questions about this 
Statement of Issues, please contact Will Sommers on (03) 9910 9444 or Ben 
Roberts on (03) 9290 1497.  
22. 
The ACCC anticipates making a final decision on 17 February 2022, however, 
this timeline can change. To keep up with possible timing changes and to find 
relevant documents, interested parties should visit the Mergers Register on the 
ACCC's website at www.accc.gov.au/publicregisters/mergers-registers/public-
informal-merger-reviews. 
Confidentiality of submissions 
23. 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We 
will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) 
unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation 
or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the CCA. Where 
the ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, the ACCC will notify 
you in advance where possible so that you may have an opportunity to be heard. 
Therefore, please identify any confidential information that is provided to the 
ACCC. Our Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more 
information on confidentiality. 
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’ 
24. 
A Statement of Issues is not a final decision about a proposed acquisition. A 
Statement of Issues outlines the ACCC’s preliminary views and identifies further 
lines of inquiry. 
25. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 


Cargotec – proposed acquisition of Konecranes 
 
Page 5 of 19 
Industry background 
Container handling equipment 
26. 
Container handling equipment is used to move, stack, load and unload 
containers at ports, inland intermodal terminals, and in other industrial 
applications.4  
27. 
Container handling equipment includes cranes, horizontal transport equipment 
and mobile equipment. 
28. 
Cranes can be categorised into quay cranes and gantry cranes:  
• 
quay cranes are used to load and unload containers and other cargo from 
ships and include STS cranes and mobile harbour cranes,  
• 
gantry cranes are used in the container yard and landside area for stacking 
containers and loading/unloading trucks and railcars. There are three main 
types of gantry cranes used in container yards:  
i. rubber-tyred gantries (RTGs),  
ii. rail-mounted gantries (RMGs), and  
iii. automated stacking cranes (ASCs).5  
29. 
Horizontal transport equipment is used to transport containers between quay 
cranes and the container yard. They also have the ability to lift and stack the 
containers. Horizontal transport equipment includes (automated and manual) 
straddle and shuttle carriers, terminal tractors, and automated guided vehicles.  
30. 
Mobile equipment is used to transport and lift containers and other cargo in 
terminals and includes reach stackers, empty and full container handlers, and 
forklift trucks.  
Automated software and equipment 
31. 
Container handling equipment may be manual or automated. Market feedback 
indicates that automation options are important in Australia, and Australian 
customers are major purchasers of ASCs and automated straddle and shuttle 
carriers globally. 
32. 
In order to utilise and manage a fleet of automated equipment, a terminal 
requires automation software known as the Equipment Control System (ECS), 
for equipment selection, job optimisation and refinement. The ECS interfaces 
with the automation software on-board the equipment, which is tasked with job 
execution and equipment control. 
 
 
4 Container handling equipment is also used in industries including mining, logistics, and storage. 
5 References to ASCs include automated rail-mounted gantry cranes (ARMGs). 


Cargotec – proposed acquisition of Konecranes 
 
Page 6 of 19 
The parties 
Cargotec  
33. 
Cargotec is a Finnish publicly listed supplier of material handling solutions, 
ranging from container handling equipment and services to engineering solutions 
for the maritime industry.  
34. 
In Australia, Cargotec’s Kalmar business supplies container handling equipment 
and services, including aftersales servicing and spare parts. Cargotec’s Inver 
Port Services business provides maintenance and specialised engineering 
services to the stevedoring industry Australia wide. 
35. 
Bromma, a division of the Kalmar business, supplies spreaders for use in 
container handling equipment. 
Konecranes 
36. 
Konecranes is a Finnish publicly listed supplier of material handling solutions, 
ranging from container handling equipment and services to solutions for the 
general manufacturing and processing industries. 
37. 
In Australia, Konecranes’ Port Solutions business is involved in the sale of 
container handling equipment and terminal solutions. This includes Konecranes’ 
brands such as Noell (acquired as part of Konecranes’ acquisition of Terex’ 
Material Handling and Port Solutions business) for automated and manual 
straddle and shuttle carriers. Konecranes mobile equipment is primarily supplied 
to customers by its distributor United Equipment.  
Other industry participants 
Cranes 
Shanghai Zhenhua Heavy Industries Co. Ltd. (ZPMC) 
38. 
ZPMC is a Shanghai Stock Exchange listed supplier of container handling 
equipment, as well as offshore heavy equipment, engineering machinery, 
engineering vessels and large metal structural parts. ZPMC is the largest port 
heavy-duty machinery equipment manufacturer in the world. Globally ZPMC is a 
major supplier of quay cranes and gantry cranes. Globally ZPMC has also 
supplied straddle and shuttle carriers. In Australia, ZPMC has supplied quay 
cranes and automated stacking cranes.  
Liebherr 
39. 
Liebherr is a German-Swiss manufacturer of construction machinery and 
equipment. Liebherr’s container handling equipment includes quay and gantry 
cranes, as well as reach stackers.  
Kuenz 
40. 
Kuenz is an Austria based manufacturer of equipment across multiple industries 
including container handling. Kuenz manufactures gantry cranes and quay 


Cargotec – proposed acquisition of Konecranes 
 
Page 7 of 19 
cranes. Kuenz cranes are available to customers in Australia via its distributor 
PortxGroup.  
Mobile equipment  
Hyster-Yale Material Handling, Inc. (Hyster) 
41. 
Hyster supplies equipment primarily under the Hyster, Yale and Maximal brand 
names. Hyster’s mobile container handling equipment includes reach stackers, 
container handlers, and forklift trucks. Hyster container handling equipment is 
available to customers in Australia via distributors including Adaptalift.  
Clark Equipment 
42. 
Clark Equipment is an Australian manufacturer of heavy machinery. Clark 
Equipment’s mobile container handling equipment includes Omega branded 
reach stackers, container handlers, forklift trucks and other equipment.  
Sany Group (Sany) 
43. 
Sany is a Shanghai Stock Exchange listed heavy equipment manufacturing 
company. Sany’s mobile container handling equipment includes reach stackers, 
container handlers, and terminal tractors. Sany also supplies ship-to-shore 
cranes and gantry cranes, including ASCs, RTGs and RMGs. In Australia, Sany 
supplies its equipment through a network of distributors. 
CVS Ferrari (CVS) 
44. 
CVS is an Italian manufacturer of heavy equipment. CVS’ container handling 
equipment including reach stackers, heavy duty forklift trucks and empty 
container handlers are supplied via distributors including Lift Equipt, a heavy 
lifting operation specialising in forklift hire, sales, service, and parts. 
Aftersales service 
Infraworks 
45. 
Infraworks is an independent industrial services company. Within the container 
handling product and service market, Infraworks services include maintenance 
and equipment rebuilds. 
Programmed Industrial Services (Programmed) 
46. 
Programmed is a provider of operations and maintenance services across 
Australia and New Zealand, including for quay cranes, straddle carriers, reach 
stackers and spreaders. 
United Equipment 
47. 
United Equipment is one of Australia’s largest privately owned forklift and access 
equipment companies and distributors. United Equipment also provides servicing 
and spare parts, including for Konecranes' mobile equipment.  


Cargotec – proposed acquisition of Konecranes 
 
Page 8 of 19 
Adaptalift Group (Adaptalift) 
48. 
Adaptalift Group is one of Australia’s largest forklift hire and sales companies, 
distributing brand such as Hyster, Yale and Combilift as well as providing 
servicing and spare parts.  
Other container handling equipment suppliers 
49. 
Other container handling equipment suppliers include Mitsui, Uplifting, Combilift, 
Mobicon, Doosan, MLA Holdings, Mi-Jack, Taylor Machine Works, Inc., 
Komatsu, Wuxi Huadong Heavy Machinery Co., Ltd (HDHM) and Qingdao Haixi 
Heavy-duty Machinery Co., Ltd. (HHMC / CSSC). 
50. 
The ACCC understands that Cargotec and Konecranes’ straddle and shuttle 
carriers are designed for high volume use, for example at large ports and 
intermodal terminals. The ACCC understands that suppliers such as Mobicon 
and Combilift manufacture straddle and shuttle carriers that may be used for 
lower volume applications, for example at a retailer’s warehouse. Market 
participants reported that straddle and shuttle carriers designed for lower volume 
applications are not a substitute for those designed for high volume use. 
Throughout this document, references to straddle and shuttle carriers refer only 
to straddle and shuttle carriers designed for high volume use. 
The proposed transaction  
51. 
On 1 October 2020 the parties entered into a combination agreement to merge 
under Finnish law. Upon completion, Cargotec and Konecrane’s shareholders 
will each hold approximately 50 percent of the shares and voting rights in the 
merged entity. The transaction is global in nature and is being reviewed by a 
number of international competition regulators including the EU’s Directorate-
General for Competition, the US Department of Justice, and the UK’s 
Competition and Markets Authority. 
Market definition 
52. 
The ACCC’s starting point for considering which markets will be affected by the 
proposed acquisition is to identify the areas of overlap between the products and 
services actually or potentially supplied by the merger parties. The ACCC then 
considers other actual or potential suppliers of those products and services, as 
well as what other products and services constitute sufficiently close substitutes 
to provide a significant source of constraint on the merged entity. 
53. 
Cargotec’s Kalmar business and Konecranes’ Port Solutions business overlap in 
the supply or potential supply of the following container handling equipment and 
services in Australia: 
Gantry cranes 
 
Rubber-tyred gantries   
Rail-mounted gantries 
Automated stacking cranes / automated rail-
mounted gantries 
Horizontal transport equipment 
Straddle carriers (manual and automated)  


Cargotec – proposed acquisition of Konecranes 
 
Page 9 of 19 
  
Shuttle carriers (manual and automated)  
Mobile equipment 
Reach stackers 
Empty container handlers  
Full container handlers  
Forklift trucks 
Aftersales services  
Supply of repair and maintenance services and 
spare parts 
Terminal consultancy services 
 
 
Terminal design services 
Terminal performance management services 
Choice of container handling equipment is made at the terminal design stage 
54. 
The ACCC understands that the choice of which type or combination of 
container handling equipment to use is dependent on the terminal design. 
Different types of container handling equipment may overlap in some functions, 
for example a port operator could choose to stack containers in a container yard 
using only gantry cranes, straddle carriers or mobile equipment, or could use a 
combination of equipment types. The decision on which type of container 
handling equipment to use is made based on a range of physical considerations, 
including available space, density of the stacking yard, and expected container 
throughput and future terminal expansions, as well as commercial 
considerations, including the expected return on investment in automated versus 
manual container handling equipment.  
55. 
Market feedback is that once the terminal design has been implemented, this 
dictates what type of equipment the terminal operator will purchase when 
replacement or additional equipment is required. For example, if a terminal has 
been designed to primarily use straddle carriers, then reach stackers will not be 
considered as a replacement for straddle carriers. As customers reported a 
change in the type of equipment used can require significant terminal redesign 
and capital works, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that once the terminal design 
has been implemented, one type of equipment may not typically be substitutable 
for another.  
Automation and software 
56. 
Operators of both manual and automated terminals use Terminal Operating 
Software (TOS) to monitor and control logistics, including container inventory 
management and flow, job order creation, and gate operations.  
57. 
Terminal design may include manual and/or automated container handling 
equipment. Automated equipment may require an Equipment Control System 
(ECS) to monitor, guide, and operate the automated equipment fleet in a safe 
and efficient manner. The ECS needs to be integrated with the TOS, in order to 
receive job orders, communicate with and effectively manage the automated 
equipment fleet. The ECS also needs to be integrated with the equipment’s on-
board automation software for job execution and equipment control.  


Cargotec – proposed acquisition of Konecranes 
 
Page 10 of 19 
58. 
For some automated equipment, such as automated straddle carriers, they are 
currently provided as a package with the ECS for fleet management and control 
by Cargotec and Konecranes. 
Maintenance and spare parts 
59. 
Customers may self-maintain their container handling equipment, acquire 
maintenance services from the original equipment manufacturer (OEM) or a 
third-party, or choose a mixture of maintenance options. 
60. 
Customers may be able purchase some standard spare parts (for example 
motors and brakes) from general third-party spare parts suppliers, however 
many parts are proprietary products, which can only be purchased through the 
OEM. Once a customer has chosen a particular piece of equipment, or a fleet of 
equipment, they are constrained to purchasing proprietary spare parts from the 
OEM for the life of the equipment.  
61. 
Customers may require equipment servicing manuals and proprietary diagnostic 
equipment and/or software from the OEM in order to self-supply maintenance, or 
to enable a third-party to provide maintenance.  
Relevant markets 
62. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the markets relevant for assessing the 
competition effects of the proposed merger are: 
• straddle and shuttle carriers 
• gantry cranes 
• mobile equipment 
• aftersales services 
63. 
Our preliminary view is that when customers acquire the equipment above, they 
are also acquiring at the same time, or effectively locking themselves into 
acquiring in future, other related goods or services from the same supplier, 
including: 
• for all equipment: proprietary spare parts, and 
• for some automated equipment: 
i. the ECS that integrates with the equipment’s on-board software, 
ii. any additional equipment to be introduced into the automated fleet / 
system in future, and 
iii. integration and software development services to assist in integrating 
with the TOS, and any future changes to the software environment. 
64. 
Accordingly, the product markets listed above also include additional products 
and services. 
65. 
It may be appropriate to divide these product categories further, for example 
manual vs automated, or separate markets for straddle carriers and shuttle 
carriers or for different types of mobile equipment, however the ACCC considers 
it is not necessary to come to a conclusion on market definition at this stage. 


Cargotec – proposed acquisition of Konecranes 
 
Page 11 of 19 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary views about 
the definition of the relevant markets. In particular market participants may wish to 
comment on: 
• 
what considerations are involved when choosing to use automated straddle 
carriers rather than manual straddle carriers  
• 
what considerations are involved when choosing to use ASCs rather than manual 
gantry cranes 
• 
what considerations are involved when choosing to use one type of mobile 
equipment over another 
Issue of concern: Significant consolidation in suppliers of 
straddle and shuttle carriers 
66. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in the supply of automated and manual straddle 
and shuttle carriers to Australian customers, as Cargotec and Konecranes are 
the two largest global suppliers. If the proposed merger proceeds, only ZPMC 
has the potential to provide a competitive constraint on the merger parties, and 
the ACCC’s preliminary view is that any constraint imposed would be limited in 
the short to medium term. 
Closeness of competition between Cargotec and Konecranes 
67. 
Based on information currently available, the ACCC considers Cargotec and 
Konecranes are each other’s closest competitors for the supply of straddle and 
shuttle carriers. The ACCC estimates Cargotec and Konecranes have over 90 
percent of the combined global market share and 100 percent of the Australian 
market share. Market participants have reported a strong preference for 
Cargotec and Konecranes straddle carriers, and that the merger parties are the 
only competitors who have ever supplied straddle carriers in Australia. Cargotec 
and Konecranes have been active in recent customer tenders. 
Level of constraint from alternative competitors 
68. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that alternative suppliers provide low competitive 
constraint on Cargotec and Konecranes.  
69. 
Market feedback has indicated ZPMC is the only other supplier of straddle 
carriers and shuttle carriers considered globally by stevedores and inland 
intermodal terminal customers. ZPMC has less than 5 percent global market 
share and has not been successful in securing Australian sales to date. Some 
market participants considered ZPMC’s straddle and shuttle carriers have not 
been proven in the market, and suffer from a weaker offering of aftersales 
support staff and spare parts distribution in Australia. 
70. 
Customers report that ZPMC’s automated straddle and shuttle carrier offering in 
particular is not widely proven, as ZPMC has only recently secured limited trial 
automated straddle carrier projects globally. Accordingly, market participants 
considered Cargotec and Konecranes to be the only proven options for 


Cargotec – proposed acquisition of Konecranes 
 
Page 12 of 19 
automated straddle and shuttle carriers. It is also uncertain whether, and if so 
when, ZPMC would supply these products in Australia. 
Likelihood of new entry and expansion 
71. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that barriers to entry for the supply of shuttle and 
straddle carriers are high. Customers have indicated they have a strong 
preference for suppliers with equipment that is proven in the market, and that 
choosing an untested supplier introduces an unacceptably high level of 
commercial risk.  This is because customers require their equipment to handle a 
high volume of containers, with minimal outages, over a long life of 
approximately 10 – 20 years.  
72. 
In addition, market participants report a key difficulty for new entrants is the 
requirement to establish trusted aftersales service staff, and a spare parts 
distribution network, located in Australia. Potential new entrants therefore need 
to invest significant resources in building customer relationships in order to 
demonstrate to the industry that their product, aftersales service, and spare parts 
distribution network work well. 
73. 
The ACCC understands that a key requirement for customers of manual straddle 
carriers is that they can be converted to automated straddle carriers in future. 
Due to this customer expectation, a potential new entrant faces the additional 
difficulty of having to develop both a manual straddle carrier and a credible 
development path to an automated straddle carrier offering in order to enter the 
market at scale.  
74. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that once a customer has chosen a straddle or 
shuttle carrier supplier, the supplier has a strong incumbency advantage over 
competitors seeking to supply the customer with additional or replacement 
straddle or shuttle carriers. Market participants report limited instances of 
acquiring straddle and shuttle carriers from multiple suppliers, due to factors 
including: 
a. 
the cost and time involved in training maintenance and driving crews on 
equipment from multiple suppliers, 
b. 
the cost of purchasing, and space required to hold, multiple sets of spare 
parts,  
c. 
the risk of choosing an unproven supplier given equipment life of 10 – 20 
years, and 
d. 
if the straddle or shuttle carriers are automated, our preliminary view is that 
the incumbency advantage is insurmountable, due to the additional 
complexity in integrating equipment from an alternative supplier into a 
terminal’s existing Equipment Control System, or running two different 
Equipment Control Systems in parallel. We are not aware of this being 
achieved anywhere worldwide. 
75. 
Market participants report that straddle and shuttle carriers require different 
technology, parts, research, design, and manufacturing experience compared to 
other types of container handling equipment. Accordingly, suppliers of other 
types of container handling equipment face difficulty in entering this market. 
Market participants also considered scale is important to reduce the cost of 
manufacturing shuttle and straddle carriers. Market participants have reported 
ZPMC to be the only new entrant to achieve limited success in the past 10 years. 


Cargotec – proposed acquisition of Konecranes 
 
Page 13 of 19 
76. 
Market feedback also show that at least one other major container handling 
equipment supplier has attempted and failed to enter the market, because it was 
unable to achieve economies of scale to be price competitive against Cargotec 
and Konecranes.  
Straddle and shuttle carriers are not interchangeable with other horizontal 
transport equipment or mobile equipment 
77. 
The ACCC considered whether other types of horizontal transport equipment or 
mobile equipment could replace the use of straddle or shuttle carriers. Market 
participants have indicated the choice to use straddle or shuttle carriers is made 
during the terminal operations design stage. Once a decision has been made to 
use straddle or shuttle carriers, they cannot be easily replaced by other types of 
horizontal transport equipment or mobile equipment without a significant 
redesign of terminal operations, and associated capital works.   
Automated straddle and shuttle carriers  
78. 
The ACCC understands that when a customer purchases automated straddle 
carriers, they have a strong preference for purchasing multiple related products 
and services as part of a package from a single supplier. This package includes 
the straddle carriers, automation software both on-board the equipment and 
controlling the whole fleet of straddle carriers (the ECS), proprietary spare parts, 
software integration services and some aftersales services. Customers prefer 
this package due to the complexity of delivering and supporting an automated 
straddle carrier system, and the increased ease of dealing with one supplier. 
79. 
An ECS is required to manage an automated straddle carrier fleet. Due to the 
high complexity and risk involved in automating a straddle carrier fleet, 
customers reported a strong preference for purchasing the ECS, including the 
software integration services required to interface the ECS to their existing TOS, 
from their automated straddle carrier equipment supplier. Customers considered 
it is not feasible to integrate automated straddle carriers from different suppliers 
into one system, because each supplier’s ECS is specifically designed to 
operate with the on-board automation software of their own automated straddle 
carriers.  
80. 
Market participants report that although only Cargotec has a proven ability to 
deliver and support an automated straddle carrier package in Australia, 
Konecranes is a viable alternative given a recent successful project in New 
Zealand. Some customers expressed concern that if the proposed merger 
proceeds, their options for automated straddle carrier suppliers would be 
reduced from two to one for the foreseeable future.   
81. 
The ACCC understands that automated container handling equipment is 
becoming increasingly important, particularly for Australian customers. 
Accordingly, the ACCC is also considering how difficult it would be in the future 
for a competitor to integrate additional types of automated equipment (such as 
automated guided vehicles or automated reach stackers) to a customer 
operating a Cargotec or Konecranes automated straddle carrier fleet. 


Cargotec – proposed acquisition of Konecranes 
 
Page 14 of 19 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to 
straddle and shuttle carriers. In particular market participants may wish to comment on 
the following: 
• 
whether ZPMC or other suppliers are, or are likely to become, a viable option for 
the supply of manual and automated straddle and shuttle carriers to stevedores 
and inland intermodal terminal operators 
• 
the ease or difficulty of integrating automated straddle and shuttle carriers from 
one supplier with those of another (i.e. running mixed fleets) 
• 
the ease or difficulty of integrating different types of automated equipment and 
software from different suppliers (e.g. mixing ECS with another supplier’s 
automated straddle carrier or other automated equipment) 
• 
the likelihood of automated guided vehicles, automated reach stackers, and other 
automated equipment being purchased in future, and the difficulty of integrating 
such equipment from a different supplier into an existing Equipment Control 
System, or running two different ECS in parallel 
• 
whether users of straddle carriers and shuttle carriers can readily switch to using 
mobile equipment 
• 
whether straddle carriers designed for low intensity use are comparable to straddle 
carriers designed for use by high volume stevedores and inland intermodal 
terminal operators 
Issue of concern: Significant consolidation in suppliers of 
gantry cranes 
82. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in the supply of automated and manual gantry 
cranes, as Cargotec and Konecranes are the two largest suppliers to Australian 
customers. If the proposed merger proceeds, the merged entity would only face 
a moderate constraint from ZPMC, and a low level of constraint from Liebherr 
and Kuenz in the supply of gantry cranes. 
83. 
Market participants report automation is important in the Australian market, and 
automated stacking cranes (ASCs) account for a large proportion of gantry 
cranes sold in Australia. Market participants generally reported that Cargotec 
and Konecranes are the preferred suppliers of ASCs, and ZPMC is an 
alternative option. Market feedback was mixed on whether Kuenz is a viable 
option. Accordingly, for the supply of ASCs in particular, the ACCC considers the 
proposed merger would reduce the number of proven competitors that are 
currently in Australia from three to two. The ACCC is continuing to consider the 
level of competition Kuenz provides. 
Closeness of competition between Cargotec and Konecranes 
84. 
Based on information currently available, the ACCC considers Konecranes to be 
one of Cargotec’s only competitors for the supply of gantry cranes to Australian 
stevedores and inland intermodal terminal operators. The ACCC estimates 
Cargotec and Konecranes have over 90 percent share of gantry cranes 


Cargotec – proposed acquisition of Konecranes 
 
Page 15 of 19 
delivered over the last 7 years in Australia. Cargotec and Konecranes have been 
active participants in recent customer tenders. 
85. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed merger represents a large increase in 
concentration of suppliers of gantry cranes to Australian customers, which may 
result in increased prices or a reduction in customer service and product and 
service innovation.   
Level of constraint from alternative competitors 
86. 
Market participants report that apart from Cargotec and Konecranes, only ZPMC, 
Liebherr and Kuenz are considered by Australian customers as potential 
suppliers of gantry cranes. The ACCC has received mixed feedback about 
ZPMC, Liebherr and Kuenz’ ability to satisfy the needs of Australian customers.   
ZPMC 
87. 
Market feedback reports ZPMC has had some recent success in supplying 
gantry cranes (including ASCs) to Australian stevedores, with approximately 5-
10 percent market share of gantry cranes in operation. Some market participants 
report ZPMC has a cost advantage over alternative suppliers as it ships its 
gantry cranes to Australian customers fully assembled, benefits from the 
significant scale of its operations arising from its large Chinese customer base, 
and has lower labour and shipping costs compared to European manufacturers.  
88. 
However, some market participants consider ZPMC is a limited alternative given 
a weaker offering of aftersales support staff and spare parts distribution in 
Australia.  
89. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that ZPMC would provide a moderate level of 
competitive constraint post-merger. 
Liebherr and Kuenz 
90. 
Market feedback indicates gantry crane suppliers with a manufacturing base in 
Asia, including Cargotec, Konecranes and ZPMC, are able to offer a lower cost 
product (due to cheaper labour and transport) compared to suppliers that 
manufacture in Europe such as Liebherr. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that 
Liebherr would provide a low level of competitive constraint post-merger. The 
ACCC is continuing to consider the level of competition Kuenz provides. 
Likelihood of new entry and expansion 
91. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that barriers to entry for the supply of gantry 
cranes are substantial, and are particularly high for ASCs due to the complexity 
of automation. Customers also indicated they have a strong preference for 
suppliers with equipment that is proven in the market. This raises the difficulty for 
potential new entrants to gain the confidence of customers, particularly given 
gantry cranes have an equipment life of 20 – 25 years, and purchases are 
infrequent.  
Automated stacking cranes 
92. 
The ACCC heard that ASCs are materially more difficult to develop than manual 
gantry cranes. One supplier of gantry cranes reported the barriers to developing 


Cargotec – proposed acquisition of Konecranes 
 
Page 16 of 19 
ASCs include high costs of developing automation technology, and difficulty 
securing customers given the high barriers to customers switching from their 
existing ASC supplier. Market feedback indicates that once a terminal operator 
has purchased ASCs from one supplier, the complexity of integrating ASCs from 
a different supplier into the customer’s existing system acts as a deterrent to 
switching suppliers when purchasing additional or replacement ASCs. However, 
the ACCC heard one example of an Australian customer integrating ASCs from 
two different suppliers into their automation system.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to 
gantry cranes. In particular market participants may wish to comment on the following: 
• 
how closely Cargotec and Konecranes compete 
• 
how closely alternative suppliers compete with Cargotec and Konecranes  
• 
the ease or difficulty of integrating an ASC from an alternative supplier with an 
existing automation system and / or TOS 
• 
the ease or difficulty for a supplier of manual gantry cranes to develop an 
automated gantry crane 
Issues that may raise concerns: Consolidation in suppliers 
of mobile equipment  
93. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed merger may substantially 
lessen competition in the supply of mobile equipment, such as reach stackers 
and container handlers, to customers in Australia. The merged entity would 
become one of the largest supplier of mobile equipment in Australia. It would 
face the most competitive constraint only from Hyster (Adaptalift) and to a lesser 
extent from Clark Equipment, Sany and some smaller suppliers.  
94. 
When considering specific types of equipment, the ACCC holds stronger 
concerns in the supply of reach stackers, but is still considering any competitive 
impact on the supply of container handlers. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that 
the proposed merger is unlikely to substantially lessen competition in the supply 
of heavy forklift trucks. 
Closeness of competition between Cargotec and Konecranes 
95. 
Market share data show that Cargotec and Konecranes are among the top three 
suppliers of mobile equipment in Australia. This is supported by market feedback 
showing that most customers view Cargotec, Konecranes (through United 
Equipment) and Hyster as the top three mobile equipment suppliers in Australia. 
All three are seen as proven global suppliers able to supply local aftersales 
services, maintenance, and spare parts across Australia.  
96. 
Accordingly, the ACCC considers Cargotec and Konecrane to be close 
competitors in the supply of mobile equipment in Australia. Post-merger, only 
Hyster (Adaptalift) would remain a close competitor to the merged entity. 


Cargotec – proposed acquisition of Konecranes 
 
Page 17 of 19 
Level of constraint from alternative suppliers  
97. 
Customers generally view Clark Equipment (the only Australian manufacturer) as 
a viable alternative. However, for some customers with global container handling 
operations, their Australian operation can only purchase mobile equipment as 
part of a global procurement program. Therefore, the Australian operations are 
not able to access Clark Equipment as a primary supplier, due to its lack of 
global presence.  
98. 
Market feedback was mixed about Sany as a viable alternative. While Sany have 
made some sales in Australia, some customers saw Sany as a riskier option 
than the major mobile equipment suppliers because of a lack of local support 
and spare parts supply. In addition, some customers were not aware of Sany as 
a mobile equipment supplier in Australia. 
99. 
Market share data show that there are several smaller mobile equipment 
suppliers. Market feedback show that for larger customers, these suppliers are 
not seen as viable alternatives. 
100. Accordingly, the ACCC considers Clark Equipment and Sany would provide 
some competitive constraint on the merged entity. 
Likelihood of new entry and expansion 
101. Market feedback is that barriers to entry and expansion for mobile equipment are 
materially lower than for the other container handling equipment covered above. 
However, alternate global suppliers have a limited commercial incentive to enter 
and stay in Australia due to the limited size of the Australian market, and they 
generally require a critical mass of expected sales and customers. 
102. Suppliers face challenges in gaining customers because customers are 
inherently sticky to their incumbent supplier. Factors contributing to customer 
stickiness include: reluctance to change due to familiarity with incumbent 
equipment, cost of changing, unknown reputation of new supplier, lack of local 
support and spare parts requirements. 
Heavy forklift trucks  
103. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed merger is unlikely to 
substantially lessen competition in the supply of heavy forklift trucks, as there 
appear to be a large number of alternative suppliers that will provide a strong 
competitive constraint on a combined Cargotec/Konecranes post-merger. The 
ACCC has not heard concerns from market participants about heavy forklift 
trucks so far, but will continue to consider the likelihood of any competitive 
impact on their supply post-merger. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to 
mobile equipment. In particular market participants may wish to comment on the 
following: 
• 
whether the merged entity would be sufficiently constrained by Hyster (Adaptalift), 
Clark Equipment, Sany and other mobile equipment suppliers 
• 
the ease or difficulty of new entry or expansion of existing mobile equipment 
suppliers in Australia, including through local distributors 


Cargotec – proposed acquisition of Konecranes 
 
Page 18 of 19 
• 
the likelihood of customers sponsoring new entry or expansion of existing mobile 
equipment suppliers in Australia 
• 
whether different types of mobile equipment are readily interchangeable, including 
reach stackers, empty container handlers, full container handlers, and heavy forklift 
trucks  
Issues that may raise concerns: Aftersales service  
104. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed merger may substantially 
lessen competition in the supply of aftersales service of gantry cranes and 
straddle and shuttle carriers. The merged entity may have the ability and 
incentive to restrict or limit customers and competitors’ access to its service 
manuals and training, fault-diagnostic equipment, and proprietary spare parts 
(collectively the repair and maintenance inputs) necessary for the supply of 
aftersales service. 
Level of constraint from alternative suppliers  
105. Market feedback is that customers can repair and maintain gantry cranes and 
straddle and shuttle carriers by using the OEM, internal maintenance teams, or a 
third-party service provider (such as Programmed Industrial Services and 
Infraworks). In order to undertake these tasks internally or through a third-party 
service provider, the customer requires access to the OEM’s repair and 
maintenance inputs. Access to these inputs is particularly critical for the repair 
and maintenance of automated equipment, as they are more sophisticated and 
include on-board automation software. 
106. The ACCC understands that the merger parties currently supply repair and 
maintenance inputs to customers, which allows them to choose how to maintain 
and repair their machines. The ACCC is considering whether, absent the 
constraint applied by Cargotec or Konecranes as an alternate supplier of 
equipment, the merged entity may be able to withhold or restrict access to those 
inputs. 
107. For example, for automated straddle carriers where the merger parties are the 
only suppliers with widely proven products, customers currently have the option 
of switching to Konecranes to defeat any attempt by Cargotec to limit the 
customer’s access to the necessary repair and maintenance inputs. 
108. The ACCC is concerned that the proposed merger would remove this option for 
customers, which ultimately may lead to higher aftersales service costs or 
reduced levels of service.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to the 
supply of aftersales service. In particular market participants may wish to comment on 
the following: 
• 
whether service manuals and training, diagnostic equipment, and specialised 
spare parts are critical to undertaking repairs and maintenance of manual and 
automated gantry cranes 


Cargotec – proposed acquisition of Konecranes 
 
Page 19 of 19 
• 
whether service manuals and training, diagnostic equipment, and specialised 
spare parts are critical to undertaking repairs and maintenance of manual and 
automated straddle and shuttle carriers 
• 
whether post-merger, a combined Cargotec/Konecranes would be more likely to 
limit access to the service manuals and training, diagnostic equipment, and 
specialised spare parts required for undertaking repairs and maintenance 
• 
whether post-merger, a combined Cargotec/Konecranes could force customers to 
only use it to undertake repairs and maintenance, by restricting access to the 
service manuals and training, diagnostic equipment, and specialised spare parts 
required for undertaking repairs and maintenance 
ACCC's future steps 
109. As noted above, the ACCC invites submissions from market participants on each 
of the issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that 
may be relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. Submissions should 
be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au by no later than 5pm on 19 November 
2021. 
110. The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
111. The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 17 February 2022. 
However, the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment explaining the 
ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's public announcement. 
