 
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
tel: (02) 6243 1368 
mergers@accc.gov.au
www.accc.gov.au
Our ref:  
IM-71003 
 
Contact officers: 
Yak Wang / Annelise Caplan 
Contact phone: 
(03) 9290 6978 / (03) 9910 9451 
24 February 2022 
Dear Interested Party 
Re:  Request for submissions: Cargotec’s proposed merger with Konecranes – 
Proposed Undertakings 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is currently reviewing 
Cargotec Corporation’s (Cargotec) proposed merger with Konecranes Plc (Konecranes) 
(the proposed merger).  
Cargotec and Konecranes have offered commitments to the European Commission (EC) in 
relation to the proposed merger (EC Commitments). The EC Commitments require 
Cargotec to divest its Kalmar Automation Services business and Konecranes to divest its 
Konecranes Lift Trucks business (collectively, the Divestment Businesses). To address 
competition concerns in Australia, Cargotec and Konecranes have each offered the ACCC 
a proposed undertaking pursuant to s87B of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 
(Proposed Undertakings), which require the parties to comply with the EC Commitments, 
including divestiture in Australia, and provides for ACCC approval of the proposed 
purchaser(s) of the Divestment Businesses.  
The purpose of this letter is to seek your views on whether requiring the parties to sell the 
Divestment Businesses would adequately address the competition concerns arising from 
the proposed merger in Australia. Your views will assist the ACCC in reaching a final 
decision on the proposed merger and whether to accept the Proposed Undertakings. 
Attachment A to this letter outlines the background to the proposed merger and a 
summary of the EC Commitments and Proposed Undertakings, with additional details of 
the Divestment Businesses contained in Attachment C and D. A list of specific questions is 
at Attachment B. 
If you wish to make a submission, please provide it by 4.00pm (AEDT) on Thursday, 10 
March 2022. Submissions may be emailed, preferably in PDF format to 
mergersru@accc.gov.au with the subject line: Submission re: Cargotec/Konecranes - 
Proposed Undertakings (Attention: Annelise Caplan/Yak Wang). 
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
Please note the ACCC has not yet formed a concluded view as to whether its competition 


concerns are capable of being addressed by the EC Commitments, Proposed 
Undertakings or any other possible remedy. The market consultation process should not be 
taken as an indication that the ACCC will accept the EC Commitments, Proposed 
Undertakings or that any remedy will be capable of satisfying its competition concerns. 
The ACCC may require changes to the Proposed Undertakings depending on the nature 
and extent of any concerns raised during the market consultation process. The ACCC will 
only accept a remedy if it is satisfied that it will sufficiently address its competition concerns, 
and after consideration of the monitoring and compliance costs and any risk to competition 
associated with the implementation of the Proposed Undertakings (or failure to do so). If 
you have any questions in relation to this matter or would like to arrange a teleconference 
to discuss your response, please contact Yak Wang on (03) 9290 6978 or Annelise Caplan 
on (03) 9910 9451. 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC treats sensitive information it receives during a merger review as confidential, and will 
not publish your submission. We will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our 
advisors/consultants) unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information 
legislation or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition and 
Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, we will notify 
you in advance where possible so that you have an opportunity to be heard. Therefore please 
clearly indicate if any information you provide is confidential. Our Informal Merger Review Process 
Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
 
Daniel McCracken-Hewson 
General Manager  
Merger Investigations  
 
 


 
Attachment A 
Proposed merger and ACCC review 
The proposed merger was announced on 1 October 2020. Post-merger, all assets 
and liabilities of Konecranes will transfer to Cargotec. Shareholders of Konecranes 
and Cargotec will each own approximately 50 per cent of the shares in the merged 
entity. 
In June 2021, Cargotec applied to the ACCC for informal clearance of the proposed 
merger. The ACCC published a Statement of Issues on 28 October 2021 setting out 
its preliminary competition concerns, including the reduction of straddle and shuttle 
carrier suppliers from two to one, gantry cranes suppliers from three to two, and 
consolidation in suppliers of mobile equipment in Australia. Further information about 
the ACCC’s review and the Statement of Issues can be accessed at: 
https://www.accc.gov.au/public-registers/mergers-registers/public-informal-merger-
reviews/cargotec-corporation-konecranes-plc.   
Cargotec  
Cargotec is headquartered in Finland and active globally in material handling 
solutions ranging from manufacture and supply of container handling products 
(manual and automated) to engineering solutions for the maritime industry.  
Cargotec’s Kalmar Automation Solutions (KAS) business supplies port cranes, 
horizontal transport equipment (HTE) and automation globally, including to 
customers in Australia, including equipment control systems required to operate 
automated equipment. KAS also offers aftersales servicing and spare parts. 
Cargotec's Kalmar (KAMOS) business unit supplies mobile equipment, related 
aftersales servicing and spare parts. 
Konecranes  
Konecranes is headquartered in Finland and specialises in material handling 
solutions for general manufacturing and process industries, container handling 
products and services, and automated solutions. 
Konecranes’ Port Solutions business provides container handling products and 
terminal solutions to customers in Australia. As part of the Port Solutions business, 
the Konecranes Lift Trucks business supplies mobile equipment. 
 
Overview of the EC Commitments 
 
The Divestment Businesses are: 
(a) the Konecranes Lift Trucks Business, which is Konecranes’ global mobile 
equipment business (MEQ Divestment Business). The MEQ Divestment 
Business is not physically present in Australia but supplies mobile equipment to 
customers in Australia via a third-party distributor, United Equipment Pty Ltd 
(United), and 
(b) the Cargotec KAS Business, which is Cargotec’s global port cranes, HTE and 
automation business (KAS Divestment Business). 
The Divestment Businesses may be acquired by separate purchasers, or 
alternatively both Divestment Businesses may be acquired together by a single 
purchaser.  
 


Cargotec and Konecranes must enter into a final binding sale and purchase 
agreement within a specified period from the EC’s decision date, or a divestiture 
trustee will be appointed to sell the Divestment Businesses to a purchaser at no 
minimum price. 
 
MEQ Divestment Business 
 
The MEQ Divestment Business is comprised of two entities in Sweden and one in 
China.  
 
The Konecranes assets to be divested include: 
• 
its mobile equipment business, which manufactures and supplies reach stackers, 
full and empty container handlers as well as forklift trucks,  
• 
the Lift Trucks sales channel, services and spare parts business (and other 
essential functions), and  
• 
all customer, distributor, agent and supply agreements entered into by those legal 
entities which form part of the MEQ Divestment Business. If any customer, 
distributor, supply or agent agreements are not entered into by the legal entities 
part of the MEQ Divestment Business, but do cover (in whole or in part) the 
supply of MEQ, Konecranes will use its reasonable best efforts to transfer these 
agreements to the purchaser to the extent they relate to the supply of MEQ.  
 
The MEQ Divestment Business also includes the transfer of the Liftace and SMV 
trademarks. 
In relation to the ‘Konecranes’ brand: 
• 
the merged entity will retain the Konecranes brand, but cannot sell any mobile 
equipment under the Konecranes brand until 8 years after the merger has closed. 
• 
the purchaser of the MEQ Divestment Business has the option to license from the 
merged entity the Konecranes brand for 3 years to supply mobile equipment. 
After which, it will no longer be able to use the Konecranes brand. 
Konecranes has no physical presence in Australia in relation to the supply of 
container handling equipment (including MEQ). Konecranes has no offices, 
premises, or staff in Australia in relation to the supply of container handling 
equipment (including MEQ). It supplies MEQ to customers via a third-party 
distributor, namely United. In Australia, the following Konecranes assets will be 
divested: 
• 
Konecranes’ distribution agreement with United for the supply of MEQ to 
customers in Australia, and   
• 
limited intellectual property registered in Australia. 
For a more detailed description of the assets to be divested as part of the MEQ 
Divestment Business please refer to Attachment C.  
KAS Divestment Business 
The Cargotec assets to be divested include: 


• 
Intelligent Cranes Solution business, which is Cargotec’s global port cranes 
business for the supply and servicing of ship-to-shore cranes, rubber-tired gantry 
cranes, rail mounted gantry cranes and automated stacking cranes, 
• 
Intelligent Horizontal Transport Solutions business, which is Cargotec’s global 
business for the supply and servicing of straddle and shuttle carriers,  
• 
the entire Kalmar One automation system, and 
• 
related after-sales and upgrade / modernisation services and spare parts supply. 
The purchaser of the KAS Divestment business will acquire Cargotec’s HTE and 
mobile equipment assembly site in Stargard, Poland. However, certain personnel and 
assets used exclusively for Cargotec’s mobile equipment business at the Stargard 
assembly site will be carved-out of the KAS Divestment Business and retained by 
Cargotec. These Cargotec mobile equipment assembly activities will be transferred 
to another facility within 24 months. 
In relation to the ‘Kalmar’ brand: 
• 
If the KAS Divestment Business is divested without the Kalmar brand, the 
merged entity would not be allowed to sell Port Cranes and/or HTE products 
under the Kalmar brand until 10 years after the merger has closed. 
The merged entity retains exclusive use the Kalmar brand for all types of CHE 
equipment other than Port Cranes and HTE product. 
• 
The purchaser of the KAS Divestment Business has the option to use the Kalmar 
brand for the supply of Port Cranes and HTE products under a 5-year licence. 
After this 5-year period and until of the end of the 10th year from closing, neither 
the merged entity nor the purchaser will be allowed to sell Port Cranes or HTE 
products under the Kalmar brand. The merged entity intends to differentiate the 
Kalmar brand used in relation to the supply of any other equipment than Port 
Cranes and HTE from the Kalmar brand used by the purchaser in relation to the 
supply of Port Cranes and HTE.  
In Australia, the following leased premises used by the KAS Divestment Business will 
be divested: 
• 
an office in Port Botany, Sydney (Building 12, Lord Street), and 
• 
a warehouse in Brooklyn, Melbourne (Grieve Parade). 
The KAS Divestment Business includes KAS employees located in Melbourne and 
Sydney and also includes: 
• 
all contracts with Australian customers, including all ongoing equipment and / or 
contracts and all ongoing aftersales services contracts related to Port Cranes and 
HTE, and 
• 
all existing Port Cranes and HTE related inventory of finished goods in Australia, 
including components, sub-components, raw materials, spare parts, tool box 
containers, tool and jigs. 
For a more detailed description of the assets to be divested as part of the KAS 
Divestment Business please refer to Attachment D.  
 


Overview of the Proposed Undertakings 
 
The Proposed Undertakings contain the following substantive obligations: 
• 
Cargotec and Konecranes must comply with the EC Commitments to the extent 
they relate to the Divestment Businesses in Australia, 
• 
Cargotec and Konecranes must irrevocably submit to the jurisdiction of the 
Federal Court of Australia in relation to the Proposed Undertakings, 
• 
Cargotec and Konecranes must sell the Divestment Businesses only to ACCC 
approved purchaser(s), and 
• 
Cargotec and Konecranes must procure that the monitoring trustee appointed by 
the EC provide the ACCC with a copy of each report (including any confidential 
version) provided to the EC that indicates Cargotec and Konecranes’ progress as 
to compliance with the EC Commitments. The ACCC may directly request 
information from the monitoring trustee at any time. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Attachment B 
We have set out a list of questions you may wish to address in your submission. 
Please feel free to comment on any other issues that you consider relevant to the 
ACCC’s assessment. 
1. If you have not previously provided a submission to the ACCC on this matter, 
please: 
a. provide a brief description of your business or organisation. 
b. outline the reasons for your interest in the proposed merger, including any 
commercial relationship/s with either Cargotec or Konecranes. 
2. Will the remedy proposal: 
a. address the ACCC’s preliminary competition concerns set out in its 
Statement of Issues dated 28 October 2021? Why or why not? 
b. replace any loss of competition resulting from the proposed merger? Why 
or why not? Does your view differ according to whether there is a single 
purchaser or separate purchasers? 
c. attract a suitable purchaser or purchasers? To what extent would a 
purchaser need existing facilities and / or experience, including in 
Australia or regionally, to be a viable, effective and long-term competitor. 
3. Does the remedy proposal include all the necessary assets and personnel 
required to ensure a purchaser can become a viable, effective and long-term 
competitor? If not, please explain what else would be required. 
4. Are you aware of any third party (including regulatory) consents required to 
transfer the assets to a purchaser that may impact on the effective 
implementation of the remedy proposal? 
5. Do you have concerns about a potential purchaser of the MEQ Divestment 
Business (which includes the Distribution Agreement with United) exiting or 
reducing its engagement with the Australian mobile equipment market?  
6. Does the potential dual use of the Kalmar brand raise concerns either for 
confusion in the market or for the viability of the purchaser - that is, a purchaser 
using the Kalmar brand for the supply of Port Cranes and HTE products, and the 
merged entity using the Kalmar brand for the supply of all other types of CHE 
equipment (except for Port Cranes and HTE products)? 
7. How significant is the risk of asset degradation (including employees defecting 
and customer contracts terminating etc) after the merger closes but before the 
merged entity finds a purchaser for the Divestment Businesses?  
8. The remedy proposal includes divesting a business from each of Cargotec and 
Konecranes. Are there significant risks or losses in synergy in divesting these 
businesses and transferring them to any potential single or separate purchaser(s) 
– for example the reverse carve-out at the Stargard assembly facility? Would the 
risks or losses in synergy be materially less if both of the divested businesses 
came from either Cargotec or Konecranes? 


9. Do you have any concerns about the loss of competition resulting from the 
proposed merger that are not addressed by the remedy proposal? 
10. Please provide any additional information or comments you consider relevant to 
the ACCC’s consideration of the proposed merger under section 50 of the Act. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Attachment C – MEQ Divestment Business 
Asset / resource  
Summary of MEQ Divestment Business 
Outline of global remedy 
Legal entities 
Two entities in Sweden and one in China.  
Business offices 
/ premises  
Konecranes' MEQ headquarters, R&D, manufacturing site and distribution centre for spare parts 
located in Markaryd, Sweden and Konecranes' manufacturing site and spare parts distribution 
centre in Lingang, China. 
Product Lines 
All MEQ product lines currently produced and sold by Konecranes globally (including with 
respect to Australian customers) which comprise reach stackers, empty container handlers, full 
container handlers, forklift trucks and related spare parts. 
Personnel 
Staff currently employed by the MEQ Divestment Business globally, including personnel who are 
used predominantly or exclusively for the manufacturing, supply, sale or servicing of MEQ. 
Product 
descriptions  
All product descriptions and related information. 
Inventory of 
finished goods 
All existing inventory of finished goods, and raw materials and spare parts as of the date of 
Closing.  
Equipment and 
machinery 
Manufacturing, testing and servicing equipment and machinery used in the manufacturing and 
testing of MEQ including all related documentation.  
R&D / pipeline 
projects 
All R&D and pipeline projects and related information. 
Customer etc 
information 
All customer, distributor and agent information. 
Customer, 
distributor, agent 
and supply 
agreements 
All customer, distributor, agent and supply agreements entered into by the legal entities part of 
the MEQ Divestment Business.  
 
Brands, patents, 
design rights, 
technology and 
knowhow 
All rights in all brands, patents, design rights and other intellectual property technology and 
knowhow currently used exclusively or predominantly to develop, manufacture, sell and use 
MEQ, which are held by Konecranes. This will include the Liftace and SMV trademarks.  
 
Domain names 
All domain names used exclusively for the supply of MEQ.  
Business 
records, books 
etc 
All business records, books of account, financial records, and tax records; all information, 
including customer and supplier lists and details, product and pricing information, account 
histories, research data and commercial data. 
Sales literature 
To the extent applicable, all sales and promotional literature and other sales-related materials 
used exclusively or predominantly for the manufacturing, supply or servicing of MEQ. 
Software 
At the option of the purchaser, Konecranes will provide the purchaser with a duplicate of its 
remote monitoring platform TruConnect, comprising the hardware and software system that 
collects and stores data for monitoring Konecranes MEQ. At the option of the purchaser, a 
transitional services agreement relating to Microsoft applications, emails etc.  
Transitional 
arrangements  
A range of transitional services arrangements at the option of the purchaser. 
Overview of Australian assets which form part of MEQ Divestment Business 
Distribution 
agreement 
Distribution agreement Konecranes has in place with a third party for the supply of MEQ to 
customers in Australia  
IP 
Limited IP registered in Australia.  
 
 
 
 


Attachment D – KAS Divestment Business 
Key asset / 
resource 
Summary of KAS Divestment Business 
Outline of global remedy 
Business 
offices / 
premises  
• 
The KAS headquarters located in Tampere, Finland  
• 
Cargotec’s HTE assembly site in Stargard, Poland (the Stargard Facility), with the exception of 
certain personnel and assets used exclusively for Cargotec’s mobile equipment business.  
• 
Specified workshops, warehouses and offices.  
Product Lines 
All Port Cranes and HTE product lines assembled and sold by Cargotec globally (including to 
Australian customers) and related product descriptions and information. 
Personnel  
All staff currently employed by the KAS Divestment Business globally (including in Australia), as well 
as staff seconded to the business, shared personnel and certain additional personnel.  
Inventory of 
finished goods 
All existing Port Cranes and HTE related inventory of finished goods, components, sub-components, 
raw materials and spare parts as of the date of Closing.  
Tools and 
equipment 
All existing Port Cranes and HTE related tool box containers, which contain necessary equipment for 
project delivery, and tools and jigs that are used for assembly and maintenance. 
Product 
development  
All relevant information existing at or initiated before Closing on product development projects in 
relation to Port Cranes, HTE and Kalmar One.  
Brands 
• 
The “Nelcon” brand  
• 
The “Kalmar” brand for use in relation to the supply and servicing of Port Cranes and HTE 
(noting the Parties will retain the exclusive right to use the Kalmar brand in relation to the supply 
and servicing of any equipment other than Port Cranes and HTE). 
Patents, and 
other IPR and 
knowhow  
All patents, and other intellectual property rights and knowhow (IPR) related to Port Cranes and/or 
HTE, including IPR (if any) related to Port Cranes and/or HTE spare parts. 
Automation 
and software 
The Kalmar One automation system, enabling the purchaser to sell fully automated Port Cranes and 
HTE.  
Customer 
contracts and 
relationships 
All ongoing equipment orders and/or contracts at the time of Closing (including options agreed in the 
context of deliveries in the past), all ongoing aftersales services contracts related to Port Cranes and 
HTE, all customer contracts relating to Port Cranes and HTE upgrade projects, and copies of 
customer records. 
Other third 
party contracts 
At the option of the purchaser, a range of any other third-party contracts that exclusively or 
predominantly relate to the KAS Divestment Business. 
Business 
books and 
records 
All other business records, books of account, financial records, and tax records; all information, 
including customer / supplier lists and details, product / pricing information, account histories, 
research data and commercial data used exclusively or predominantly for the manufacturing, supply 
or servicing of Port Cranes and/or HTE. 
Marketing 
materials 
All sales and promotional literature and other sales-related materials used exclusively or 
predominantly for the manufacturing, supply or servicing of Port Cranes and/or HTE. 
Transitional 
arrangements  
A range of transitional services arrangements at the option of the purchaser, including in relation to 
the Stargard Facility. 
Overview of Australian assets which form part of KAS Divestment Business 
Premises 
In Australia, KAS has no manufacturing or assembly facilities and the only physical premises are 
in the nature of basic warehouses/workshops and office premises. The following premises in 
Australia will be transferred to the purchaser: 
an office in Port Botany, Sydney (Building 12, Lord Street); 
a warehouse in Brooklyn, Melbourne (Grieve Parade). 
Personnel 
Includes KAS employees located in Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane. 
Customer 
contracts 
All ongoing contracts related to Port Cranes and HTE with Australian customers, including all 
ongoing equipment orders and / or contacts and all ongoing aftersales services contracts, as well 
as copies of customer records. 


Key asset / 
resource 
Summary of KAS Divestment Business 
Inventory of 
finished goods, 
tools, etc 
All finished goods in Australia, including existing Port Cranes and HTE related inventory of finished 
goods, components, sub-components, raw materials, and spare parts as at Closing, as well as tool 
box containers, tool and jigs.  
IP 
Specific trademarks registered in Australia 
 
