 
 
1 
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
tel: (02) 6243 1368 
mergers@accc.gov.au
www.accc.gov.au
Our ref:  
IM-71003 
 
Contact officer: 
Will Sommers / Ben Roberts  
Contact phone:  
(03) 9910 9444 / (03) 9290 1497 
5 August 2021  
Dear Interested Party 
Request for submissions: Cargotec’s proposed merger with Konecranes  
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
Cargotec Corporation’s (Cargotec) proposed merger with Konecranes Plc (Konecranes) 
(the proposed merger). 
Cargotec and Konecranes operate globally and overlap in the supply of container handling 
products and/or services in Australia. In particular, both supply gantry cranes, horizontal 
transport equipment, mobile equipment and aftersales services. Further detail regarding 
the proposed merger is at Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focussed on the impact on competition. In particular, we are 
seeking your views on: 
• the impact on prices or service levels  
• whether Cargotec and Konecranes compete closely in Australia, and 
• whether customers of Cargotec and Konecranes have access to alternative suppliers 
in Australia. 
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed merger is in section 50 
of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits mergers and acquisitions 
that are likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
Please provide your response by no later than 27 August 2021. Responses may be 
emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: Submission re: Cargotec / Konecranes - 
attention Will Sommers / Ben Roberts. If you would like to arrange a time to discuss the 
matter with ACCC staff, or have any questions about this letter, please contact Will 
Sommers on (03) 9910 9444 or Ben Roberts on (03) 9290 1497. 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public 
Mergers Register at (ACCC mergers register). 


 
2 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We will not 
disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by 
law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or during court proceedings) or 
in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010.  Where the 
ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, the ACCC will notify you in advance 
where possible so that you may have an opportunity to be heard.  Therefore, if the 
information provided to the ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our 
Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
Daniel McCracken-Hewson 
General Manager 
Merger Investigations


 
 
3 
Attachment A 
The proposed merger 
The proposed merger was announced on 1 October 2020. Completion is expected in the 
first half of 2022. Post-merger, all assets and liabilities of Konecranes will transfer to 
Cargotec. Shareholders of Konecranes and Cargotec will each own approximately 50% of 
the shares in the merged entity.  
Cargotec 
Cargotec is headquartered in Finland and active globally in material handling solutions 
ranging from manufacture and supply of container handling products (manual and 
automated) to engineering solutions for the maritime industry.  
Cargotec’s Kalmar business in Australia is involved in the sale and distribution of container 
handling products and services, including equipment control systems required to operate 
automated equipment. Kalmar also offers aftersales servicing and spare parts.  
Bromma, a division of the Kalmar business, supplies spreaders for use with container 
handling equipment. 
Konecranes 
Konecranes is headquartered in Finland and specialises in material handling solutions for 
general manufacturing and process industries, container handling products and services, 
and automated solutions.  
Konecranes’ Port Solutions business provides container handling products and terminal 
solutions to customers in Australia.  
Activities in Australia 
Cargotec’s Kalmar business and Konecranes’ Port Solutions business both supply or have 
sought to supply the following container handling products and/or services to customers in 
Australia: 
 
Gantry cranes 
 
Rubber-tired gantries   
Rail-mounted gantries 
Automated stacking cranes / automated rail-
mounted gantries 
Horizontal transport equipment 
  
Straddle carriers (manual and automated)  
Shuttle carriers (manual and automated)  
Mobile equipment* 
*Konecranes mobile equipment is 
primarily supplied to customers by 
a distributor, United Equipment.  
Reach stackers 
Empty container handlers  
Full container handlers  
Forklift trucks 
Aftersales services  
Supply of spare parts 
Terminal consultancy services 
 
 
Services relating to terminal design 
Services related to terminal performance 
management 


 
4 
Cargotec’s Bromma business produces spreaders for use with container handling 
equipment, such as crane spreaders and mobile equipment spreaders. Bromma supplies 
spreaders to Cargotec and to third parties, including Konecranes.  
Konecranes produces spreaders for its own straddle carriers and shuttle carriers, but does 
not sell spreaders to third parties.  


 
 
5 
Attachment B   
1. Provide a brief description of your business or organisation and explain your 
interest in the proposed merger, including any commercial relationship(s) with 
Cargotec or Konecranes.  
Questions for customers  
Note: it would assist us if your response to questions 2, 3 and 5 could be by way 
of a table. 
2. Identify and describe the types of container handling products and/or services 
you procure in Australia, and identify your current suppliers.  
3. Describe how you procure different types of container handling products and/or 
services (for example, tenders or other methods) including how many suppliers 
are invited to tender, typical contract duration, whether contracts are exclusive, 
and whether the same or different suppliers are used for each product or service 
you acquire. 
4. Describe the extent to which you consider Cargotec and Konecranes to be close 
competitors. Consider factors such as product range, pricing, quality, service 
levels and any unique features or characteristics of their container handling 
products or services.  
5. For each container handling product or service you procure in Australia, identify 
and describe alternative suppliers capable of servicing your needs, including how 
they compare to Cargotec and Konecranes on product range, pricing, quality, 
service levels or innovation.  
6. Describe your ability to switch suppliers for container handling products or 
services. Consider factors such as time, costs, or any exclusive or long-term 
contractual arrangements. Provide examples where possible. 
7. Outline whether you would procure container handling products and/or services 
from a new entrant supplier. Describe the factors you would consider, such as 
product range, pricing, quality, service levels, and the importance of reputation or 
a proven track record. Provide examples of recent entry where possible.  
8. Describe your ability to self-supply or import any of the container handling 
products or services that you currently acquire from Cargotec or Konecranes. 
Provide details including the time, costs and challenges that you would face.  
9. For each of the container handling products and/or services that you currently 
acquire from Cargotec or Konecranes in Australia, describe how you would 
respond if prices increased or service levels decreased post-merger.  
Questions for competitors 
Note: it would assist us if your response to questions 11 and 12 could be by way 
of a table. 
10. Identify the types of container handling products and/or services you supply in 
Australia. 


 
6 
11. Identify your competitors for the supply of each container handling product and/or 
service identified in your response to question 10. Provide estimated market 
shares where possible. 
12. Outline your history of competing in tenders to supply container handling 
products and/or services in Australia. Provide details such as the identity of the 
customer, the type of container handling products or services that were the 
subject of the tender, when the tender process occurred, and whether you were 
successful, including the reasons for the outcome (if known). 
13. Describe the extent to which you consider Cargotec and Konecranes to be close 
competitors. Consider factors such as product range, pricing, quality, service 
levels and any unique features or characteristics of their container handling 
products or services. 
14. Describe the likelihood of customers switching suppliers for container handling 
products or services in response to an increase in price or decrease in service 
levels post-merger. Consider factors such as time, costs, or any exclusive or 
long-term contractual arrangements. Provide examples where possible. 
15. Describe the likelihood of new entry or expansion into the supply of container 
handling products and/or services in Australia if there were an increase in prices. 
Provide details about the likely timeframe for entry or expansion and barriers to 
entry, such as regulatory requirements, intellectual property, or establishing 
reputation. Provide examples of recent entry or expansion where possible.  
16. Describe the extent to which Cargotec supplies container handling products 
and/or services which are used by competitors of Konecranes in Australia. 
Consider whether the merged entity could profitably increase prices or decrease 
service levels for the supply of these products or services to Konecranes’ 
competitors or effectively deny them access to these products or services. 
17. Describe the extent to which Konecranes is an essential customer of container 
handling products and/or services (such as spreaders) in Australia. Assuming 
Konecranes’ demand for these products or services switches to Cargotec post-
merger, comment on the impact on Cargotec’s competitors.     
18. Describe how you would respond if the merged entity increased prices or 
decreased service levels for container handling products and/or services in 
Australia. Specify if your response differs for different types of container handling 
products or services. 
Other information or competition issues 
19. Provide any additional information or comments that you consider relevant to the 
ACCC’s consideration of the proposed merger.  
