 
 
 
 
Land of the Ngunnawal people
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
Tel 02 6243 1111 
Fax 02 6243 1199
www.accc.gov.au
Our ref: 
IM-72867 
 
 
 
16 April 2025  
Dear Interested Party 
Re: ACCC seeking your views: Acciona’s proposed acquisition of the East 
Rockingham WtE project 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
the proposed acquisition of the East Rockingham Waste to Energy project (East 
Rockingham Project) by Acciona, S.A. (Acciona) (the proposed acquisition). 
The East Rockingham Project, located in East Rockingham, Western Australia, is currently 
in administration and receivership. Acciona is the Engineering, Procurement and 
Construction contractor and a minority equity shareholder in the East Rockingham Project. 
Further details are provided at Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact on competition. In particular, we are 
seeking your views on whether the proposed acquisition would likely:  
• 
reduce competition for waste disposal services, including specifically waste to energy 
services, to municipal and/or commercial and industrial customers in Perth and/or 
Peel; and 
• 
lead to higher prices and/or lower service quality of waste disposal services in Perth 
and/or Peel. 
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
Please provide your response by 30 April 2025 via email with the title: Submission re: 
Acciona / East Rockingham Project. If you require more time to respond, please let us know. 
If you would like to arrange a time to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any 
questions about this letter, please contact mergers@accc.gov.au. 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public Mergers 
Register at (ACCC mergers register). 


 
 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We will not 
disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by 
law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or during court proceedings) or in 
accordance with s155AAA of the CCA. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where possible so that you may have an 
opportunity to be heard. Therefore, if the information provided to the ACCC is of a 
confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our Informal Merger Review Process 
Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
Morag Bond 
General Manager  
Merger Investigations  
 
 


 
 
Attachment A 
The acquirer – Acciona 
Acciona is a global infrastructure developer publicly listed in Spain. In Australia, Acciona has 
various subsidiaries and is currently developing several infrastructure projects across the 
transport, water and energy sectors. 
Acciona holds a 10% non-controlling equity interest in the East Rockingham Waste to 
Energy Project (East Rockingham Project or the Project), is a creditor of the Project under 
a loan agreement and is the Engineering, Procurement and Construction contractor.  
Acciona also owns and operates the Kwinana Waste to Energy (Kwinana WtE) facility 
located in Kwinana Beach in the south of Perth. It is the first utility scale facility in Australia 
that will process residual waste for energy recovery. It is approved to process up to 460 
kt/year of residual waste and generate approximately 38MW of electricity to the grid. 
The target – East Rockingham Project 
The East Rockingham Project is located in East Rockingham and will process residual waste 
for energy recovery once operational. It is approved to process 300 kt/year of residual waste 
(including from municipal councils and commercial and industrial waste streams) and 
generate approximately 29 MW of electricity to the grid. 
The Project is currently in external administration and controlled by receivers who will 
undertake a sale process.  


 
 
Attachment B 
1. Please provide a brief description of your business or organisation. 
2. Outline the reasons for your interest in the proposed acquisition including any 
commercial relationship(s) with Acciona or the East Rockingham Project. If applicable, 
please identify the service(s) that you currently or in the future will supply to, or acquire 
from, Acciona and/or the East Rockingham Project, or the services you offer which may 
compete with the services currently supplied or that will be supplied by Acciona’s 
Kwinana WtE or the East Rockingham project.  
3. Please describe how closely the East Rockingham Project would compete with Acciona’s 
Kwinana WtE in Perth. Include a description of the likely competing services. 
4. Please identify the main competitors to Acciona and/or the East Rockingham Project in 
the supply of putrescible waste disposal services. If relevant, explain the impact of the 
landfill levy on competition between landfills and WtE facilities. 
5. Please outline the process, cost and time involved in establishing a new waste disposal 
facility (e.g. transfer station, landfill, WtE facility) in Perth and/or Peel, including 
regulatory requirements such as licences and environmental approvals.  
Questions for current and prospective customers 
6. Please identify and describe the waste disposal facilities that you currently use to 
dispose of putrescible waste in Perth and/or Peel, particularly those that would be an 
effective alternative to the Kwinana WtE. Outline the volume of waste you dispose at 
each facility and the price you are charged to do so, describing the relevant waste type 
and service. Identify if these services are obtained via a competitive tender or through 
other processes and if applicable, describe existing contractual arrangements (e.g. term 
of contract). 
7. Outline the key factors you consider when choosing a waste disposal facility in Perth 
and/or Peel (such as price, location, service (e.g. opening hours)).  
8. Explain the extent to which Acciona’s ownership of the East Rockingham Project could 
impact pricing and/or service quality at putrescible waste disposal facilities in Perth 
and/or Peel.  
9. Describe the extent to which you could switch between putrescible waste disposal 
facilities in response to a price increase and/or decrease in service levels. 
Questions for operators of putrescible waste disposal facilities  
10. List all putrescible waste disposal facilities you operate within Perth and/or Peel. For 
each of these facilities, please provide the volume of putrescible waste you received in 
the last financial year, broken down by customer type (e.g. municipal, commercial and 
industrial) where possible. 
11. Please provide the annual operating capacity of each putrescible waste disposal facility 
you operate within Perth and/or Peel. 
12. Please describe the disposal services you offer and the pricing for these services. 


 
 
13. Please list your main competitors. Please indicate whether you compete for your 
customers via competitive tenders and/or individual price negotiations, and what factors 
you compete over beyond pricing. 
14. Confirm whether you also offer residual/putrescible waste collection services. If so, 
please list the key geographical areas where this waste is collected across Perth and/or 
Peel. 
