 
Page 1 of 18 
Statement of Issues 
 
17 July 2025 
Acciona – proposed acquisition of the East 
Rockingham Waste to Energy Project 
Purpose 
1. 
The East Rockingham Waste to Energy project (the East Rockingham Project) in 
Western Australia is in administration and receivership. Cor Cordis, the 
receivers, are undertaking a sale process.  
2. 
Acciona is an interested party participating in that sale process and proposes to 
acquire the East Rockingham Project.  
3. 
This Statement of Issues: 
▪ 
gives the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission’s (ACCC) 
preliminary views on competition issues arising from the proposed 
acquisition,  
▪ 
identifies areas of further inquiry, and 
▪ 
invites interested parties to submit comments and information to assist our 
assessment of the issues. 
4. 
Statements of Issues do not refer to confidential information provided by the 
parties or other market participants and therefore may not fully articulate the 
ACCC’s preliminary position. 
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views 
5. 
In considering the proposed acquisition, the ACCC applies the legal test set out 
in section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the CCA). In general 
terms, section 50 prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely 
to have the effect, of substantially lessening competition in any market. 
6. 
The ACCC divides its preliminary views into three categories, 'issues of concern', 
'issues that may raise concerns' and ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’. In this 
Statement of Issues there is one ‘issue of concern’ and two ‘issues unlikely to 
raise concerns’.   


Acciona – proposed acquisition of the East Rockingham Waste to Energy Project 
 
Page 2 of 18 
Issue of concern – unilateral effects in the supply of putrescible waste disposal 
services  
7. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is likely to have 
the effect of substantially lessening competition in the supply of putrescible 
waste disposal services in the Perth and Peel region by removing competition 
between the East Rockingham Project and Kwinana Waste to Energy (Kwinana 
WtE) facility. 
8. 
The East Rockingham Project and Kwinana WtE facility are close competitors 
that are the only two near-operational WtE facilities in Perth and would be under 
common ownership if Acciona is the successful bidder.  
9. 
The ACCC is concerned that this would allow Acciona to increase prices or 
reduce service quality at these facilities post-acquisition. The ACCC is closely 
considering the extent to which committed capacity at the two facilities may 
limit price and non-price effects of the proposed acquisition. Further, the ACCC 
is examining the competitive constraint that landfills may impose, including 
whether that may vary by customer.  
Issues unlikely to raise concerns  
10. 
Unilateral effects in the supply of wholesale electricity to the Wholesale 
Electricity Market - The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed 
acquisition is unlikely to substantially lessen competition in the supply of 
wholesale electricity to the Wholesale Energy Market (WEM). The WEM supplies 
electricity to the south-west of Western Australia. The proposed acquisition 
would amount to an insignificant increase in concentration in this market.  
11. 
Unilateral effects in the supply of fly ash – The ACCC’s preliminary view is that 
the proposed acquisition is unlikely to substantially lessen competition in the 
supply of fly ash in any market. Together, the Kwinana WtE and East 
Rockingham WtE facilities will face significant constraint in the supply of fly ash 
by other generators of fly ash, namely power stations across Australia and 
foreign imports.  
Making a submission 
12. 
The ACCC invites submissions from interested parties, particularly on the 
following key issues: 
▪ 
the closeness of competition between East Rockingham and Kwinana WtE 
in the supply of putrescible waste disposal services in the Perth and Peel 
region, taking into account the specific nature of the WtE services offered to 
collections customers  
▪ 
the degree of competitive constraint from other suppliers of putrescible 
waste disposal services in the Perth and Peel region on Acciona post-
acquisition, and in particular, the extent to which the price and quality of 
waste disposal services offered by landfill operators constrain the price and 
quality of waste disposal services offered by WtE facilities 
▪ 
the likelihood of new entry or expansion in the supply of putrescible waste 
disposal services and, in particular WtE facilities in the Perth and Peel region 
in response to a lessening of competition from the proposed acquisition 


Acciona – proposed acquisition of the East Rockingham Waste to Energy Project 
 
Page 3 of 18 
▪ 
the likelihood of Acciona increasing prices or reducing service quality for 
putrescible waste disposal services for commercial and industrial (C&I) and 
municipal customers post-acquisition 
▪ 
the likely extent to which the East Rockingham and Kwinana facilities will 
compete in the future in the absence of the proposed acquisition. 
13. 
Interested parties should provide submissions by 5pm (AWST) on 31 July 2025. 
Responses may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: Submission 
re: Acciona/East Rockingham WtE. If you would like to discuss the matter with 
ACCC staff or have any questions about this Statement of Issues, please email 
mergers@accc.gov.au.   
14. 
The ACCC anticipates making a final decision on 11 September 2025 however, 
this timeline can change. To keep up with possible timing changes and to find 
relevant documents, interested parties should visit the Mergers Register on the 
ACCC's website at www.accc.gov.au/publicregisters/mergers-registers/public-
informal-merger-reviews. 
Confidentiality of submissions 
15. 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We 
will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) 
unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation 
or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the CCA. Where 
the ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, the ACCC will notify 
you in advance where possible so that you may have an opportunity to be heard. 
Therefore, please identify any confidential information that is provided to the 
ACCC. Our Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information 
on confidentiality. 
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’ 
16. 
A Statement of Issues is not a final decision about a proposed acquisition. A 
Statement of Issues outlines the ACCC’s preliminary views and identifies further 
lines of inquiry. 
17. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties 
(including customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to 
ascertain and consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also 
intended to provide the merger parties and other interested parties with the 
basis for making further submissions should they consider it necessary. 
The parties  
The acquirer: Acciona  
18. 
Acciona is a global infrastructure developer publicly listed in Spain. In Australia, 
Acciona has various subsidiaries and is currently developing several 
infrastructure projects across the transport, water and energy sectors. 
19. 
Acciona holds a 10% non-controlling equity interest in the East Rockingham 
Project and is a creditor of the East Rockingham Project including under a loan 
agreement, having acquired the East Rockingham Project’s secured debt from 
other creditors at the end of 2024. Acciona was also the engineering, 


Acciona – proposed acquisition of the East Rockingham Waste to Energy Project 
 
Page 4 of 18 
procurement and construction (EPC) contractor prior to the Project entering 
administration, and was recently reappointed under a new EPC contract.  
20. 
Acciona also owns and operates Kwinana WtE located in the south of Perth, 
which it acquired in March 2024. It is the first large-scale facility in Australia that 
will process residual waste for energy recovery. The ACCC understands that 
Kwinana WtE is expected to be fully operational later this year. It is approved to 
process up to 460 kt/year of residual waste and generate approximately 38 MW 
of electricity to the grid. 
21. 
Acciona does not have any other interests in the waste industry in Western 
Australia. 
The target: East Rockingham WtE 
22. 
The East Rockingham Project is located in East Rockingham, south of Perth, and 
will process residual waste for energy recovery once operational, which is likely 
to be no earlier than mid-to-late 2026.  
23. 
It is approved to process 300 kt/year of residual waste (including from 
municipal councils and commercial and industrial waste streams) and generate 
29 MW of electricity to the grid per hour. 
24. 
The Project is currently in voluntary administration and receivers are 
undertaking a sale process – KordaMentha1 was appointed as administrator in 
October 2024, and Cor Cordis2 (appointed in January 2025) are currently the 
receivers. 
25. 
Prior to entering administration and receivership, the Project was ultimately 
owned by a consortium of shareholders being John Laing (40%), Masdar Tribe 
(40%), Acciona (10%), and Kanadevia Inova, formerly named Hitachi Zosen 
Inova AG (10%). Kanadevia Inova and Acciona were the joint EPC contractors on 
the East Rockingham Project.  
Industry background  
Waste disposal services  
26. 
Waste can be “putrescible” or “non-putrescible”.  
▪ 
Putrescible waste contains organic matter capable of being decomposed by 
microorganisms. It is the main type of waste relevant to the proposed 
acquisition. 
▪ 
Non-putrescible waste is primarily non-organic waste such as paper, 
cardboard, plastics and metal, and may be recyclable or non-recyclable.  
27. 
There are multiple activities conducted by the waste management industry. For 
putrescible waste, the key activities are: 
▪ 
Collections services involve collecting and transporting waste to a disposal 
facility. 
 
 
1 https://kordamentha.com/about 
2 https://www.corcordis.com.au/about 


Acciona – proposed acquisition of the East Rockingham Waste to Energy Project 
 
Page 5 of 18 
▪ 
Disposal services involve operating a disposal facility that receives waste 
from companies that provide collections services, or other waste transport 
services. Disposal facilities include transfer stations, landfills and waste to 
energy facilities in the Perth and Peel region. 
Waste policy in Western Australia 
28. 
Western Australia’s Waste Strategy is underpinned by the state’s waste 
management hierarchy (‘waste hierarchy’), which ranks the desirability of 
resource management options. The waste hierarchy provides that waste should 
be avoided but if it is produced, it should first be recovered (including through 
reuse, recycling and energy production) before being disposed of.3 As such, 
disposal of waste at landfill sits at the bottom of the waste hierarchy and is 
generally considered the least environmentally desirable option. 
29. 
State governments often impose landfill diversion targets and levies to 
disincentivise waste disposal at landfills. Waste disposed at landfills in the 
Perth metropolitan region is subject to a landfill levy, which is $85 per tonne for 
2024-25. This typically represents approximately half to one-third the price of a 
landfill’s ‘gate fee’ (the price of waste disposal at a landfill based on weight or 
volume).4  Comparable waste levy rates in NSW, QLD, SA and VIC are all higher 
than $120 per tonne. 
30. 
The Waste Strategy aims for no more than 15% of Perth and Peel regions’ waste 
to be disposed to landfill by 2030.5 Market feedback indicates that this target 
signals to councils and industry to seek alternatives to landfills where available. 
The ACCC understands some progress has been made toward meeting this 
target. 
31. 
The State Waste Infrastructure Plan for Western Australia (SWIP Report), 
published in May 2024 by the Department of Water and Environmental 
Regulation, predicts that Western Australia’s population will rise from 2.7 million 
in 2020 to 4.2 million in 2050.6 Even if waste avoidance targets are met in 2030, 
it is projected that waste generation (both putrescible and non-putrescible) in 
Western Australia will increase from 5.90 million tonnes in 2020 to 7.89 million 
tonnes in 2050.7 To treat this volume of waste, the SWIP Report finds that 
further infrastructure will be required to landfill over 1 million tonnes of waste 
and apply energy recovery to 942,000 tonnes. 
Waste to energy facilities  
32. 
WtE facilities provide energy recovery services – that is, they receive and 
thermally treat residual putrescible waste (which cannot be reused or recycled 
and so would otherwise be disposed of at landfill) to generate electricity for 
wholesale energy markets. Waste disposed at WtE facilities is not subject to the 
landfill levy. 
 
 
3 Waste Authority WA, Position Statement on the Waste Hierarchy: Getting our Waste Sorted, September 2020, p 5. See 
also Waste Avoidance and Resource Recovery Act 2007 (WA) s 5(1)(c). 
4 Government of Western Australia, Waste levy rate schedule, 26 June 2023.  
5 Waste Authority WA, Waste Avoidance and Resource Recovery Strategy 2030, 24 October 2019, p 33. 
6 Western Australian Government, State waste infrastructure plan – Western Australia, May 2024, p 64. 
7 Western Australian Government, State waste infrastructure plan – Western Australia, May 2024, p 64. 


Acciona – proposed acquisition of the East Rockingham Waste to Energy Project 
 
Page 6 of 18 
33. 
This process also produces smaller amounts of other offtakes such as fly ash, 
which can be used as an aggregate in construction materials such as road base. 
Fly ash is required to be treated before it can be used.  
34. 
WtE technology is relatively novel in Australia, and the East Rockingham Project 
and Kwinana WtE are the only two facilities in Western Australia near full 
operation. The ACCC understands that there are no other WtE facilities in 
development in Western Australia, noting that it is a relatively novel technology 
in Australia and demand may increase as it develops.   
Landfill  
35. 
In 2022-2023, 37% of all waste (both putrescible and non-putrescible) generated 
in Western Australia was disposed of in landfills.8 Landfill currently accounts for 
all waste which is not recovered through methods such as recycling or organic 
waste processing.  
36. 
While landfills also vary in size, landfills are typically capable of accepting 
several hundred thousand tonnes of waste per year, which is comparable in size 
to WtE facilities and generally much larger than transfer stations.  
37. 
Landfills are licenced to accept certain types of waste. Putrescible waste is 
accepted by Class II / III landfill sites under the Environmental Protection 
Regulations 1987 (WA).9  
38. 
There are eight major putrescible waste landfill sites in the Perth and Peel 
region, listed in Table 1 below. These facilities are owned by regional councils 
(which represent member municipal councils), individual municipal councils and 
private operators (usually as part of an integrated waste management 
business). These landfills are dispersed across the urban fringe of the Perth 
metropolitan area and in nearby regional areas.  
Other putrescible waste disposal facilities 
39. 
The following are types of waste collection, treatment, sorting and pre-
processing facilities that may be capable of accepting putrescible waste: 
▪ 
Waste Transfer Stations (WTS) are aggregation points for bulk quantities of 
waste prior to recycling or final disposal. At these facilities, putrescible 
waste is collected, consolidated and stored before transportation in bulk to 
a final disposal destination, such as a landfill or WtE facility, and as such, 
can reduce overall transport costs. There are 11 putrescible WTS in the 
Perth and Peel region which are operated by regional councils, individual 
local councils and private operators (usually as part of an integrated waste 
management business). 
▪ 
Resource recovery facilities (RRFs) refer to waste treatment facilities that 
incorporate alternative waste technologies to recover resources from waste, 
which is generally any waste processing technology designed to recover 
resources from a mixed waste stream. Putrescible waste from the municipal 
sector may be treated by various alternative waste treatment processes, 
 
 
8 WA Waste Authority, Waste and recycling trends in Western Australia 2022-23 – Data and trends report, 
September 2024, p 6.  
9 Environmental Protection Regulations 1987 (WA) sch 1 category 64. 


Acciona – proposed acquisition of the East Rockingham Waste to Energy Project 
 
Page 7 of 18 
which may still yield residual waste to be disposed of in landfill or WtE 
facilities. 
▪ 
Material recovery facilities (MRFs) are facilities for sorting and pre-
processing materials from the waste stream for resource recovery. MRFs 
may be ‘clean’ (source-separated recyclables are sorted into different 
material types for recycling) or ‘dirty’ (mixed waste is sorted to separate 
recyclable and non-recyclable waste). Both types of MRFs produce non-
recyclable residue, which is disposed of in putrescible landfill or WtE 
facilities.10 
Customers 
40. 
WtE facilities, landfills and other waste disposal facilities service the following 
customers:  
▪ 
Municipal councils, which typically collect their own waste (or use third-
party collections providers) and conduct public tender processes to procure 
disposal services, whether individually or through regional council groups. If 
a council or council group engages a third-party collections provider, they 
are generally able to direct the provider to dispose of the waste at a 
nominated facility which the council has contracted with. Some regional 
council groups also operate their own disposal facilities, such as landfills or 
transfer stations. East Rockingham and Kwinana WtE both have long-term 
waste supply agreements with regional council groups as well as separate 
agreements with local councils for the supply of waste.11  
▪ 
C&I customers, which are generally C&I collections companies but can 
include businesses who produce waste. Businesses that generate C&I waste 
often contract directly with waste collections service providers. After C&I 
waste is collected, the waste collections operator will generally choose 
which facility to dispose of the waste at. C&I collections companies 
generally have tipping agreements with several waste disposal facilities, 
which are usually non-exclusive, and may be a mix of long or short-term 
agreements or spot market arrangements. 
▪ 
Individuals, who may directly dispose of their waste at landfill and other 
facilities, including transfer stations. However, WtE facilities are not 
generally open to the public. 
41. 
When operational, the East Rockingham WtE Project and Kwinana WtE will 
accept putrescible waste drawn from both municipal and C&I waste streams. 
42. 
The ACCC understands that some customers of putrescible waste disposal 
services – particularly municipal councils and large commercial collections 
companies – may prefer disposal via WtE facilities rather than landfills due to 
sustainability targets, which often include landfill diversion as a metric. 
 
 
10 Western Australian Government, State waste infrastructure plan – Western Australia, May 2024, p 19. 
11 These agreements can be on a flexible ‘waste arising’ basis where a customer is charged for the actual volumes 
that are disposed of at the facility, or a ‘committed volume’ basis’, which operates as a take-or-pay style volume 
commitment. 


Acciona – proposed acquisition of the East Rockingham Waste to Energy Project 
 
Page 8 of 18 
Providers of putrescible waste disposal services in the Perth and Peel region 
43. 
There are a number of providers of putrescible waste disposal services in the 
Perth and Peel region. As discussed below, landfills may be a possible 
alternative to WtE for some WtE customers. However, other types of putrescible 
disposal facilities such as transfer stations, RRFs and MRFs do not appear to 
compete directly with WtE facilities. It is noted that transfer stations can be an 
important part of the consideration to use a specific WtE facility or landfill as 
they can reduce the cost of transporting waste to a distant disposal facility. WtE 
and landfills that accept putrescible waste are shown in Table 1 and are owned 
and/or operated by: 
▪ 
Commercial waste management companies – Veolia, Cleanaway, and 
Instant Waste Management each operate a landfill and other putrescible 
waste disposal facilities and additionally provide waste collection services 
in the Perth and Peel region. Veolia operates the North Bannister landfill, as 
well as several transfer stations; Cleanaway operates the Dardanup landfill 
and one transfer station; Instant Waste Management operates the Salt 
Valley Road landfill and two transfer stations.12. The ACCC notes that Veolia 
was the operator of the Kwinana WtE plant and, prior to the East 
Rockingham Project entering receivership, was going to operate the East 
Rockingham Project (once operational) under operations and management 
(O&M) agreements.  
▪ 
Municipal councils – several municipal councils and municipal council 
groups operate disposal facilities capable of accepting putrescible waste in 
the Perth and Peel region, including landfills, waste transfer stations, MRFs 
and RRFs. These councils typically provide putrescible waste disposal 
services to their residents, other councils and, to a lesser extent, businesses. 
Table 1: Putrescible waste disposal facilities in the Perth and Peel region 
Operator 
Facility 
Facility Type  
Licenced 
putrescible 
waste capacity 
(ktpa)  
Waste to energy facilities 
[In receivership]  
East Rockingham WtE 
WtE 
300 
Acciona  
Kwinana WtE 
WtE 
460 
Landfills 
City of Rockingham  
Millar Road Landfill Facility 
Landfill 
450 
Veolia  
North Bannister landfill 
Landfill 
400 
Mindarie Regional Council  
Tamala Park Waste 
Management Facility 
Landfill 
365 
Eastern Metropolitan Regional 
Council  
Red Hill Waste Management 
Facility 
Landfill 
360 
Cleanaway  
Dardanup Landfill 
Landfill 
350 
 
 
12 Remondis operates an MRF in Canning Vale. 


Acciona – proposed acquisition of the East Rockingham Waste to Energy Project 
 
Page 9 of 18 
City of Cockburn  
Henderson Waste Recovery 
Park 
Landfill 
200 
Instant Waste Management 
Salt Valley Road Landfill 
Landfill 
150 
City of Armadale  
Hopkinson Road Landfill 
Landfill 
100 
Instant Waste Management 
Great Southern Landfill 
Proposed 
landfill 
[250] 
The proposed transaction 
44. 
The East Rockingham Project is in administration and is managed by receivers 
Cor Cordis, who are currently undertaking a sale process.  
45. 
Acciona is an interested party participating in that sale process and proposes to 
acquire the East Rockingham Project.  
Areas of overlap 
46. 
As noted above, Acciona currently owns and operates the Kwinana WtE in the 
south of Perth. Following the proposed acquisition and the completion of the 
East Rockingham Project, Acciona will effectively control the only two WtE 
facilities in the Perth and Peel region, and Western Australia more broadly. 
47. 
We are considering three relevant areas of overlap between the two facilities: 
▪ 
the supply of putrescible waste disposal services in the Perth and Peel 
region, noting that the East Rockingham Project and Kwinana WtE are the 
only two near-operational WtE facilities in Western Australia 
▪ 
the supply of electricity to the WEM for the South West Interconnected 
System (SWIS), the main power system of Perth 
▪ 
the supply of fly ash, which is a byproduct of waste-to-energy production.   
Future with and without the acquisition  
48. 
In assessing a proposed acquisition under section 50 of the CCA, the ACCC 
considers the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future state of 
competition if the acquisition proceeds (the ’with’ position) to the likely future 
state of competition if the acquisition does not proceed (the ‘without’ position) 
to determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to substantially lessen 
competition in any relevant market. 
49. 
As outlined above, the receivers are undertaking a competitive sale process in 
which a number of parties may express interest in purchasing the East 
Rockingham facility.  
50. 
If Acciona acquires the East Rockingham facility, then the only two WtE facilities 
in Perth, and Western Australia more broadly, would be under common 
ownership.  
51. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that in the absence of the proposed acquisition, 
the East Rockingham facility would most likely be sold to another purchaser (or 


Acciona – proposed acquisition of the East Rockingham Waste to Energy Project 
 
Page 10 of 18 
consortium of purchasers), and the Kwinana WtE and East Rockingham WtE 
would have two separate owners.  
Market definition 
52. 
The ACCC’s starting point for considering which markets will be affected by the 
proposed acquisition is to identify the areas of overlap between the products 
actually or potentially supplied by the merger parties. The ACCC then considers 
other actual or potential suppliers of those products, as well as what other 
products constitute sufficiently close substitutes to provide a significant source 
of constraint on the merged entity. 
53. 
Once operational, the East Rockingham Project and Kwinana WtE facility will 
constitute the only two WtE facilities in the Perth and Peel regions. As such, they 
will both supply putrescible waste disposal services to C&I customers and 
municipal councils in the Perth and Peel region, and process waste to deliver 
electricity into the WEM. Both facilities will also supply fly ash, which is a 
byproduct of the pyrolysis process.  
54. 
For the purposes of this Statement of Issues, the ACCC is currently considering 
the impact of the proposed acquisition on competition in the supply of 
putrescible waste disposal services in the Perth and Peel region.  
55. 
Given that waste disposal at WtE facilities does not attract the landfill levy, and 
to the extent that customers value the ability to dispose of putrescible waste via 
WtE facilities over landfills for non-financial reasons, the ACCC considers that 
the parties represent each other’s closest competitor. Therefore, the ACCC 
notes that a critical consideration in the assessment is likely to be the 
closeness of competition between the East Rockingham Project and Kwinana 
WtE, and the extent to which both facilities are likely to be constrained by other 
suppliers of putrescible waste disposal services, particularly landfills, as 
discussed below.  
56. 
In this context, the ACCC is also considering the impact of the proposed 
acquisition on a narrower market for the supply of energy recovery services in 
the Perth and Peel region. The ACCC notes that if the proposed acquisition 
proceeds, Acciona would be the sole supplier of these services given its 
ownership of the only two WtE facilities in the region.   
Putrescible waste disposal services 
Product dimension 
57. 
The ACCC has previously considered putrescible waste disposal to be in a 
separate market from non-putrescible waste disposal, primarily due to licensing 
requirements under the Environmental Protection Act 1986 (WA). While 
putrescible waste disposal facilities are capable of accepting non-putrescible 
waste, putrescible waste can only be disposed of at facilities that are licensed 
to accept putrescible waste. 
58. 
The ACCC is considering the extent to which there may be substitution between 
putrescible waste disposal services offered by WtE facilities and alternative 
disposal facilities such as landfills, including for different segments of 
customers. The ACCC views that WtE may compete more closely with each 
other than with landfills because: 


Acciona – proposed acquisition of the East Rockingham Waste to Energy Project 
 
Page 11 of 18 
▪ 
Some customers have expressed a strong preference for WtE facilities 
over landfills – Energy recovery services are considered a more 
environmentally desirable waste disposal method than landfill disposal, 
which is the least preferred option. The ACCC understands that many large 
C&I businesses and municipal councils have sustainability targets, and 
landfill diversion is a key metric. Disposal at WtE facilities can satisfy these 
targets but disposal at landfills cannot. Additionally, some customers 
specifically request waste disposal at WtE facilities from collections 
companies as part of their putrescible waste collection agreements. 
▪ 
Energy recovery services face a more favourable government policy 
position – Government support for energy recovery services, as well as the 
levy on waste disposed at landfills, may limit the extent to which alternative 
disposal facilities can effectively compete with WtE facilities. This 
constraint may weaken if the landfill levy increases, as WtE facilities do not 
attract the levy. The WA Government’s Waste Strategy includes a target that 
no more than 15% of waste in the Perth and Peel region is sent to landfill by 
2030. Further, WtE facilities may be eligible for government assistance 
separate from landfills – the East Rockingham Project and Kwinana WtE 
both received funding from the Clean Energy Finance Corporation and the 
Australian Renewable Energy Agency. 
59. 
Although transfer stations, MRFs and RRFs all have the regulatory and physical 
capability to accept putrescible waste, these facilities, in the Perth and Peel 
region do not appear to compete directly with landfills or WtE facilities for 
putrescible waste volumes from either municipal or C&I customers. This may 
reflect the slightly different functionality of these facilities – although they can 
aggregate or process putrescible waste, residual putrescible waste will 
ultimately need to be disposed at a landfill or WtE facility.  
60. 
The ACCC is examining the strength of the customer preferences, in particular 
the degree to which customers are willing to pay more for putrescible waste 
disposal services at WtE facilities compared to landfills, and how this differs 
across and within customer types. The ACCC is also continuing to consider 
whether there is a narrower market for WtE waste disposal, and whether that 
may differ for municipal waste and for C&I waste. The ACCC notes that it is 
considering customers’ preferences as revealed through the competitive 
alternatives they consider and resulting prices, rather than solely the 
preferences that customers express. 
61. 
On the basis of the currently available information, the ACCC considers the 
closeness of competition between the two facilities, as discussed in paragraphs 
70 to 75, may be the critical factor in its competition assessment. 
Geographic dimension 
62. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the geographic dimension of the market for 
putrescible waste disposal services is likely to be within the Perth and Peel 
region of Western Australia. 
63. 
The ACCC understands that the distance between waste collection sites and 
disposal facilities is an important dimension of competition between disposal 
facilities. This is because the cost of transporting waste between collection 
sites, disposal sites, and collection truck depots is a significant variable in the 
overall cost of waste disposal. Transport costs include labour, fuel, tolls and 
associated truck maintenance costs. 


Acciona – proposed acquisition of the East Rockingham Waste to Energy Project 
 
Page 12 of 18 
64. 
The ACCC is continuing to consider the extent to which other putrescible waste 
disposal facilities in the Perth and Peel region are close substitutes for the East 
Rockingham Project and Kwinana WtE.  
65. 
Additionally, the ACCC understand that the geographic nature of collection 
routes for municipal customers and C&I customers can differ, with municipal 
customers having collection routes for specific and relatively narrow geographic 
regions compared to C&I customers. This may impact the degree to which 
different disposal facilities compete for these customers, as facilities which are 
located closer to the waste collection location may compete more closely with 
one another for that waste. The ACCC is therefore continuing to consider 
whether there may be separate markets for the supply of putrescible waste 
disposal services for municipal waste and for C&I waste. 
66. 
The ACCC also notes that landfill levy applies only to waste received for 
disposal at licensed landfills in the Perth metropolitan region and waste 
collected within the Perth metropolitan region that is disposed of at licensed 
landfills outside the metropolitan region, and is considering how this may 
impact the geographic market definition. 
Questions for market participants 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary views 
about the definition of the relevant market(s). In particular market participants may 
wish to comment on: 
▪ 
the extent to which landfills are suitable alternatives for WtE facilities, including 
with reference to location, capacity, gate fees, levies and environmental 
considerations 
▪ 
the appropriate geographic market, including whether it is narrower or broader 
than the Perth and Peel region and how that may vary by type or location of 
customer  
▪ 
the strength of customer preferences between landfills and WtE facilities, 
(including differences between C&I and municipal customers), including 
− whether customers are willing to pay more for disposal services at WtE 
facilities than at landfills 
− how those preferences may change in the future 
− any examples of prices offered and/or agreed to with WtE facilities, the 
factors that informed those prices (including any non-price contract terms), 
and the alternative offers from other disposal facilities that were considered 
alongside the WtE offer. 
Issue of concern: Unilateral effects in the supply of 
putrescible waste disposal services in the Perth and Peel 
region 
67. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in the supply of putrescible waste disposal 
services in the Perth and Peel region by removing the close competition 


Acciona – proposed acquisition of the East Rockingham Waste to Energy Project 
 
Page 13 of 18 
between the East Rockingham WtE and Kwinana WtE facilities, allowing Acciona 
to increase prices or reduce service quality at these facilities post-acquisition. 
68. 
As explained in the following sections, this is because: 
▪ 
East Rockingham WtE and Kwinana WtE are close competitors in the supply 
of putrescible waste disposal services and particularly close competitors in 
the supply of energy recovery services  
▪ 
As noted above, some local council customers appear to value WtE services 
more highly than waste disposal services supplied by landfill operators, and 
this is reinforced by favourable government policy towards WtE facilities 
▪ 
alternative suppliers of putrescible waste disposal services may be unable 
to effectively constrain Acciona post-acquisition 
▪ 
barriers to entry are very high and new entry or expansion sufficient to 
constrain the merged entity is unlikely  
▪ 
post-acquisition, Acciona may be able to increase prices and/or reduce 
service quality at these facilities. 
69. 
As noted at paragraph 56 above, the ACCC is also considering the impact of the 
proposed acquisition on a narrower market, in which these concerns would be 
elevated. Further, the ACCC is examining the extent of uncontracted capacity 
and the impact of the proposed acquisition as available capacity changes. 
The East Rockingham Project and Kwinana WtE are close competitors 
70. 
The East Rockingham Project and Kwinana WtE are each other’s closest 
competitors in the supply of putrescible waste disposal services. 
71. 
The facilities offer near-identical services and once fully operational, will be the 
first two providers of WtE services in Western Australia. The ACCC also 
understands that they have competed directly to secure waste from the same 
pool of customers.  
72. 
The ACCC views that WtE facilities may compete more closely with each other 
than with landfills given that they face different policy environments and 
customers have expressed a preference for WtE facilities over landfills, as 
outlined above (paragraph 58).  
73. 
Moreover, the East Rockingham Project and Kwinana WtE are geographically 
very close, being located only 7km apart. As outlined at paragraph 63, the 
location of a waste disposal facility is a key consideration for customers of 
putrescible waste disposal services given its direct correlation with transport 
costs. As such, the ACCC considers that the East Rockingham Project and 
Kwinana WtE are likely to impose a relatively strong competitive constraint on 
each other for municipal and C&I customers whose waste volumes are located 
close to these facilities compared to alternative disposal facilities that are 
located further away.  
74. 
The ACCC also notes that operators of WtE facilities may have additional 
sources of revenue to other suppliers of putrescible waste disposal services. 
While landfill operators may only value residual putrescible waste as a source of 
revenue from gate fees, for owners of WtE facilities it has additional value as an 
input into the generation of electricity for sale to third parties. The ACCC further 
understands that WtE facilities may have a lower marginal cost of production. 
Given additional sources of revenue and lower variable costs, WtE facilities may 


Acciona – proposed acquisition of the East Rockingham Waste to Energy Project 
 
Page 14 of 18 
offer a range of disposal prices. For example, WtE facilities may offer prices 
some amount lower than a comparable landfill price in order to assure access 
to larger volumes of more favourable quality waste (some waste is more 
favourable for energy generation, based on calorific value or consistency of 
content) over longer timeframes. 
75. 
The ACCC understands that the East Rockingham and Kwinana facilities have 
committed significant capacity through long-term contracts and are capacity 
constrained to some extent. As such, the ACCC is considering the extent of 
uncommitted waste volumes, and the degree to which the facilities are likely to 
compete with each other in the future. The ACCC notes that the relevant period 
for its competition assessment may be relatively long, given the lifespan of 
these facilities and length of contracts.   
Alternative waste disposal service providers may be unlikely to constrain the 
combined entity 
76. 
The ACCC considers that alternative providers of putrescible waste disposal 
services may be unlikely to sufficiently constrain Acciona from increasing the 
price or decreasing the quality of the service offered at the East Rockingham 
Project or Kwinana WtE.  
77. 
Although landfills may be an alternative to WtE facilities for some customers, 
the ACCC views that they may impose a weaker competitive constraint on the 
East Rockingham Project and Kwinana WtE than the WtE facilities impose on 
each other. 
78. 
As discussed above, some customers have expressed a strong preference for 
WtE facilities given it is a more environmentally desirable disposal method than 
landfill. Further, the ACCC understands that industry participants anticipate that 
the landfill levy will continue to increase above its currently scheduled increases, 
in line with trends of eastern states and the WA Government target for no more 
than 15% of total waste generated in the Perth and Peel region to be disposed of 
in landfill by 2030. An increasing landfill levy is likely to further reduce the 
effectiveness of the competitive constraint provided by landfills on WtE facilities 
into the future. However, the ACCC notes that the WA Government has not 
announced any plans for an increase to the levy. 
79. 
The ACCC understands that several existing landfills in the Perth and Peel 
region are estimated to close by 2030, including Instant Waste’s Opal Vale 
landfill, Mindarie Regional Council’s Tamala Park landfill, City of Cockburn’s 
Henderson Road landfill, and City of Armidale’s Hopkinson Road landfill. These 
facilities cumulatively represent 800ktpa of licenced putrescible waste capacity 
and their removal indicates a reduction in the competitive constraint provided by 
landfill on the two facilities (unless replaced). 
80. 
As outlined above, competition between WtE facilities may be stronger than with 
landfills. The ACCC is considering whether WtE facilities may be offering pricing 
below that of landfills as a result of competition between the two facilities for a 
particular customer. The ACCC is considering whether this competition may be 
lost if the proposed acquisition proceeds. 
81. 
The ACCC is more generally examining the extent to which the price and quality 
of waste disposal services at WtE facilities is determined by the price and 
quality of waste disposal services offered by landfills, and how the strength of 
this relationship may change into the future. 


Acciona – proposed acquisition of the East Rockingham Waste to Energy Project 
 
Page 15 of 18 
82. 
Based on information received to date, the ACCC considers that WTS, RRFs and 
MRFs do not appear to compete closely with landfills and WtE facilities in the 
Perth and Peel region.  
The likelihood of new entry or expansion is low 
83. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that there are significant barriers to entry and 
expansion in putrescible waste disposal services and, and in particular, WtE 
facilities and landfills. The ACCC considers there is a low likelihood of timely 
new entry or expansion on a sufficient scale to constrain Acciona post-
acquisition. 
84. 
Given the long period over which the ACCC may consider competitive effects 
(as noted in paragraph 75), the ACCC is considering any likely potential change 
in competitive dynamics over that timeframe, such as from new entry, how that 
might differ with and without the proposed acquisition, and the impact it may 
have on total WtE capacity and related market competitiveness. 
Barriers to entry 
85. 
Market participants consistently identified barriers to entry in establishing 
putrescible waste disposal facilities as very high, including: 
▪ 
high sunk costs  
▪ 
regulatory requirements to establish putrescible waste disposal facilities  
▪ 
long timeframes between proposal and operation of putrescible waste 
disposal facilities, particularly for WtE facilities 
▪ 
for WtE facilities, the need for committed municipal waste volumes. 
Likelihood of new entry or expansion  
86. 
The ACCC considers that timely new entry on a scale sufficient to prevent a 
substantial lessening of competition appears unlikely. The ACCC is continuing 
to consider the likelihood of existing facilities (including both landfills and the 
WtE facilities) expanding their putrescible waste capacity.  
87. 
The ACCC further notes that the nature of demand, including customer 
preferences, and expected profitability—and therefore likelihood—of a new WtE 
facility may change in the period over which the ACCC is considering possible 
competitive effects of the proposed acquisition. 
88. 
The ACCC considers it unlikely that further WtE facilities will be operational 
within the next 10 years, even if a further facility were to be approved for Perth 
or surrounds. The ACCC understands that the City of Wanneroo has identified 
the potential for a WtE facility at its proposed Neerabup Resource Recovery 
Precinct, but it is currently undergoing a feasibility study.13 
89. 
The ACCC has identified only one example of likely future new entry in 
putrescible waste disposal facilities, which is not a WtE facility – Instant Waste 
has proposed a new landfill approximately 80km east of the Perth CBD, with a 
proposed capacity of 250ktpa (the Great Southern Landfill). The ACCC 
understands that this landfill is awaiting final decision from the WA Minister for 
 
 
13 City of Wanneroo, Advocacy – Neerabup Resource Recovery Precinct, accessed 10 June 2025. 


Acciona – proposed acquisition of the East Rockingham Waste to Energy Project 
 
Page 16 of 18 
the Environment and construction is yet to commence. The ACCC is not aware 
of any other likely new entrants.  
90. 
The ACCC also views that the broader shift away from landfill arising from the 
WA Government’s waste policy and targets is likely to limit the incentive to 
establish new landfills in the future.  
ACCC considering likely effects of the proposed acquisition  
91. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is likely to have 
the effect of substantially lessening competition, with the potential for price and 
non-price effects. 
Price effects 
92. 
The ACCC is concerned that the reduction of competition in the supply of 
putrescible waste disposal services will allow the WtE facilities to increase 
prices for putrescible waste disposal above competitive levels.  
93. 
The East Rockingham Project and Kwinana WtE facilities are close competitors. 
They provide putrescible disposal services that recover energy from waste and 
are located close to one another. There are no other WtE facilities in the Perth 
and Peel region. Landfills may be unlikely to provide a strong competitive 
constraint on these WtE facilities, at least with respect to certain types of 
customers, as they do not recover energy from waste and are subject to a 
landfill levy that may increase in future. As such, Acciona may be able to set 
prices for both WtE facilities higher than if the WtE facilities were under 
separate ownership and competed against each other for waste volumes.  
94. 
The ACCC is considering whether existing long-term contracts, which apply to 
some customers, may mitigate these concerns by locking in pricing for a 
number of years.  However, the ACCC notes that even if this was the case, it 
may not address the impact of the proposed acquisition on the prices received 
by prospective customers or existing customers without long-term contracts.  
Non-price effects 
95. 
The ACCC is also concerned that, if the proposed acquisition proceeds, Acciona 
may be able to reduce the service offering at each of the WtE facilities in the 
absence of effective competition.  
96. 
This could include, for example, by limiting the hours within which waste can be 
delivered to a facility, directing waste to be delivered to one facility rather than 
the other, or including other less favourable terms in contracts with customers.  
97. 
The ACCC is exploring whether existing long-term contracts may somewhat 
limit these effects by mandating service standards, but notes that this would not 
apply to uncommitted capacity at each of the WtE facilities. 
Questions for market participants 
The ACCC invites market participants to comment on its concerns in relation to the 
potential for reduced competition in putrescible waste disposal services. Market 
participants may wish to comment on: 
▪ 
the extent to which landfills compete with WtE facilities, including the extent to 
which WA Government policy and the landfill levy influence this competition 


Acciona – proposed acquisition of the East Rockingham Waste to Energy Project 
 
Page 17 of 18 
▪ 
how closely the East Rockingham Project and Kwinana WtE currently compete 
and are likely to compete in the future, and how this may be impacted by 
significant contracted capacity  
▪ 
the potential for the East Rockingham Project and Kwinana WtE facilities to 
increase their capacity or for new WtE facilities to be commissioned, including 
related timeframes 
▪ 
the likelihood and potential impact of waste policy changes, such as further 
increases to the landfill levy or a mandate to dispose of a minimum proportion 
of waste via WtE. 
Issue unlikely to raise concerns: Reduced competition for the 
supply of wholesale electricity to the Wholesale Electricity 
Market  
98. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to 
substantially lessen competition in the supply of wholesale electricity to the 
Wholesale Energy Market (WEM). The WEM supplies electricity to the south-
west of Western Australia 
99. 
Both East Rockingham WtE and Kwinana WtE would supply up to 65MW of 
electricity to the WEM. This constitutes less than 1% of the 5,859 MW of 
registered generation capacity according to the Australian Energy Markets 
Operator.  
100. The ACCC has not found any evidence supporting a view that generation from 
WtE was a separate submarket in the supply of wholesale electricity. 
101. The proposed transaction would therefore amount to an insignificant increase 
in concentration in this market. 
Issue unlikely to raise concerns: Reduced competition in the 
supply of fly ash  
102. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to 
substantially lessen competition in the supply of fly ash in any market.  
103. Fly ash is a byproduct of power generation, primarily from coal fired power 
stations. Australia also imports ash from other countries, according to waste 
import figures from the Department of Climate Change, Energy, the Environment 
and Water.  It is then used for products used in civil construction such as 
structural cement blocks and road base.  
104. Based on current information, together, the Kwinana WtE and East Rockingham 
WtE will likely face significant constraint in the supply of fly ash by other 
generators of fly ash, namely power stations across Australia and foreign 
imports. 
ACCC's future steps 
105. As noted above, the ACCC invites submissions from market participants on 
each of the issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue 


Acciona – proposed acquisition of the East Rockingham Waste to Energy Project 
 
Page 18 of 18 
that may be relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. Submissions 
should be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au by no later than 31 July 2025. 
106. The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
107. The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 11 September 2025. 
However, the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment explaining the 
ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's public announcement. 
