Page 1 of 17 
 
Public Competition Assessment 
11 April 2019 
Bingo - proposed acquisition of Dial-a-Dump  
 
The ACCC’s decision 
1. 
On 28 February 2019, the ACCC announced its decision not to oppose the 
proposed acquisition by Bingo Industries Limited (Bingo) of Dial-a-Dump 
Industries Pty Ltd (Dial-a-Dump) (the proposed acquisition) after accepting a 
section 87B divestiture undertaking. 
2. 
The ACCC considered that the proposed acquisition, taking into account the 
undertaking, would be unlikely to contravene section 50 of the Competition and 
Consumer Act 2010 (the Act).  
3. 
Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to have 
the effect, of substantially lessening competition in any market. 
4. 
The ACCC considered the likely competitive effects of the proposed acquisition 
in the following markets:  
 
the supply of building and demolition (B&D) waste processing services in 
the Eastern Suburbs/inner city Sydney and in Western Sydney/Penrith  
 
the supply of B&D waste collection services in the Sydney region, and 
 
the supply of disposal services (i.e. landfill) for residual non-putrescible 
(dry) waste generated in the Sydney region. 
5. 
Both Bingo and Dial-a-Dump collect and process B&D waste and own non-
putrescible landfill sites in the Sydney region. The ACCC’s investigation 
focussed on the loss of actual and potential competition between Bingo and Dial-
a-Dump at each level of the supply chain. The ACCC also assessed the impacts 
of vertical integration, including whether Bingo would be able to prevent 
competing B&D waste collectors from accessing processing facilities, and B&D 
waste processors from accessing dry landfill, at competitive prices after the 
acquisition.  
6. 
Please note that this and other public competition assessments are subject to 
the following qualifications: 


 
Page 2 of 17 
 
the ACCC considers each transaction on a case-by-case basis and so the 
analysis and decision outlined in one assessment will not necessarily 
reflect the ACCC’s view of another transaction, even where that other 
transaction may involve the same or a related market, and 
 
as assessments are brief and do not refer to confidential information 
provided by the parties or other market participants, assessments do not 
set out all of the issues and information considered by the ACCC, nor all of 
the analysis and reasons of the ACCC.  
The parties and the transaction 
The acquirer: Bingo 
7. 
Bingo is a publicly listed waste management company that provides waste 
collection and processing services in New South Wales and some parts of 
Victoria. Bingo primarily services B&D and commercial and industrial (C&I) 
customers. Bingo also manufactures and supplies bins under the TORO brand, 
supplies soil and sand, and has a small presence in the liquid waste business.  
8. 
Bingo operates 12 B&D waste processing facilities in NSW, 10 of which are in 
the Sydney region. Bingo is also developing a processing facility and landfill at 
Patons Lane in Western Sydney, and a processing facility at Silverwater in 
Western Sydney. Patons Lane is a 60 hectare site with approved recycling 
throughput of up to 350,000 tonnes per annum (tpa) and approved landfill waste 
of up to 205,000 tpa. Patons Lane will have total landfill capacity of 4.3 million 
tonnes with a maximum operational life of approximately 25 years. The site has 
development approvals in place and is expected to become operational in 2019.1 
The target: Dial-a-Dump 
9. 
Dial-a-Dump is a privately owned company, providing B&D waste collection and 
processing services in the Sydney region. Dial-a-Dump operates waste 
processing facilities at Alexandria and at Eastern Creek, which also has a 
landfill. Eastern Creek has an approved throughput of two million tpa for 
processing and landfill combined, and approximately 15 years of remaining 
landfill life.2 Dial-a-Dump also processes some of its waste into recycled products 
and supplies woodchips/mulch, road base and aggregates, and soil and sand. 
The transaction 
10. 
Pursuant to an agreement entered into on 21 August 2018, Bingo proposes to 
acquire, through a subsidiary, 100% of the shares in Alexandria Landfill Pty Ltd, 
the holding company of Dial-a-Dump, for $577.5 million. The transaction is 
conditional on ACCC approval. The proposed acquisition includes an option for 
Bingo to acquire a further 27 hectares of expansion land adjacent to Dial-a-
Dump’s Eastern Creek site.3 
                                                 
1  Bingo ASX announcement, 27 November 2017. 
2  Bingo ASX announcement, 28 February 2019. 
3  Bingo ASX announcement, 21 August 2018. 


 
Page 3 of 17 
Review timeline 
11. 
The following table outlines the timeline of key events for the ACCC in this 
matter. 
Table 1: Review timeline 
Date 
Event 
13 September 2018 
 
ACCC commenced review under the Merger Process 
Guidelines. 
11 October 2018 
ACCC requested further information from the parties. 
16 October 2018 
Former provisional decision date of 8 November 2018 delayed 
to allow the ACCC more time to consider market feedback. 
16 October 2018 
ACCC received further information from the parties. 
16 November 2018 
Former provisional decision date of 22 November 2018 
delayed to allow the ACCC more time to consider market 
feedback. 
29 November 2018 
ACCC published a Statement of Issues outlining 
preliminary competition concerns 
14 December 2018 
ACCC requested further information from the parties. 
8 January 2019  
ACCC published draft 87B undertaking proffered by Bingo 
and sought industry participants’ views on the draft 
undertaking. 
25 January 2019 
ACCC received further information from the parties. 
13 February 2019 
Former provisional decision date of 21 February 2019 delayed 
to allow the ACCC more time to analyse information received. 
28 February 2019 
ACCC decision not to oppose, subject to a section 87B 
undertaking.  
12. 
The total elapsed time from start to finish was approximately five and a half 
months. The total period, net of time taken by the parties to submit information or 
documents, was 79 business days.  
Market inquiries 
13. 
The ACCC conducted market inquiries with a range of industry participants, 
including current competitors, potential competitors, customers, industry bodies, 
regulatory agencies and other interested parties. Submissions were sought in 
relation to the competition issues and the proposed undertaking. 
Statement of Issues 
14. 
On 29 November 2018, the ACCC published a Statement of Issues identifying 
preliminary concerns that the proposed acquisition may reduce competition in: 
 
B&D waste processing services in the Sydney region, in particular in the 
Eastern Suburbs/inner city and in Western Sydney/Penrith  
 
B&D waste collection services in the Sydney region, and 
 
non-putrescible (dry) landfill disposal services in the Sydney region. 
15. 
The ACCC also identified preliminary competition concerns regarding the 
increased vertical integration that would result from the proposed acquisition. 


 
Page 4 of 17 
Industry background 
16. 
The waste management industry comprises three main categories of activities:  
 
collections, which involves collecting and transporting the waste to post-
collection facilities for processing or landfilling 
 
processing, which involves the sorting, processing and recycling of waste, 
and the sale of some recycled products, and  
 
landfilling, which involves disposal of the waste material that remains after 
recyclable material has been removed (referred to as residual waste). 
There are also alternatives to landfill, such as the processing of residual 
waste for use in waste-to-energy plants.  
Types of waste 
17. 
Putrescible waste contains putrescible organics, such as food waste. Non-
putrescible waste is primarily non-organic waste that is composed of materials 
such as bricks, concrete, soil, timber, glass, plastic, rubber, plasterboard, 
ceramics, metal, paper and cardboard. Non-putrescible waste (also referred to 
as dry or solid waste) may be recyclable or non-recyclable. 
18. 
The three major streams in the waste industry are: 
 
B&D waste: produced by the demolition and construction of residential and 
commercial buildings, civil projects, infrastructure development and 
household renovations. B&D waste is non-putrescible.  
 
C&I waste: mainly generated from commercial buildings and businesses, 
government facilities, educational institutions and industrial sites. C&I 
waste is generally comprised of putrescible or non-putrescible materials 
(which are typically collected separately in different bins). 
 
Municipal waste: a mixture of putrescible and non-putrescible waste 
collected from households through kerb side collection (typically collected 
in different bin types to segregate the recyclable materials). 
19. 
In this matter, the ACCC’s concerns related to B&D waste.  
20. 
The composition of B&D waste varies and may include a mix of light and heavy 
materials:  
 
Light B&D waste includes cardboard, paper, plastics and plasterboard.  
 
Heavy B&D waste includes bricks, concrete, timber and soils. 
Collections services 
21. 
Waste collection services comprise the delivery of bins or skips to customers, 
and picking up and transporting waste from the point of generation to post-
collection facilities. The waste collector charges a fee to the customer for this 
service. 


 
Page 5 of 17 
22. 
There are differences between how each type of waste is typically collected: 
 
For C&I waste, collections companies usually provide bins to their 
customers that are typically hoppers on wheels with a lid or wheelie bins, 
like those used for household collections.  
 
B&D waste is typically collected using a hook lift or Marrell truck. 
Customers are provided with steel, open-faced skips that are typically 
more durable than the bins used for C&I waste because B&D waste is 
generally heavier.  
23. 
B&D waste is typically collected from building and construction sites. Depending 
on the stage of the project, the types of B&D waste generated may vary: 
 
Demolition: the principal types of waste generated during the demolition of 
an existing structure are bricks, concrete, steel and timber. Specialist 
demolition companies will generally also provide B&D collection services 
as part of the demolition service. 
 
Excavation: during the excavation phase of the project, soils are the 
principal form of B&D waste generated. 
 
Construction: during the construction phase of a project, a mixture of light 
and heavy B&D waste is generated.   
Processing services 
24. 
After a mixed load of B&D waste is collected, it is typically transported to a 
processing facility.4 If a B&D waste collector uses a third party processing facility, 
it pays a fee to tip its load.  
25. 
The stages of processing include:  
 
Sorting material into its component parts. Some facilities do not have the 
machinery to sort material by an automated process and will use 
equipment such as excavators to sort manually. Even where a facility has 
equipment to sort the waste, it will often do an initial sort using an 
excavator to reduce the amount of light waste and soils going through the 
machinery. 
 
Recycling reusable material, for example crushing bricks and concrete, 
and chipping timber. Some facilities have equipment to do this on site, 
while others will consolidate the sorted waste before transferring to other 
facilities that have the necessary equipment. There are a number of 
material-specific recyclers (i.e. facilities that recycle bricks and concrete 
only). 
26. 
The types of equipment needed to sort and process heavy B&D waste vary from 
the equipment used to sort light B&D or general household recyclable waste. 
Some processing facilities will not accept heavy B&D waste or will discourage 
B&D collectors from using their facilities (by charging high prices, for example) 
                                                 
4  In some cases collected waste is transported directly to a landfill. Segregated waste loads (e.g. where 
waste has been separated at the source) may be taken directly from the source to a material-specific 
processor (e.g. a concrete recycler) who processes the waste into a product for resale. 


 
Page 6 of 17 
as they do not have the equipment or space to sort the waste into the 
component parts efficiently.  
27. 
After processing has occurred, the recyclable material may be further processed 
and sold (either by the original processor or by a third party) as recycled 
products: 
 
crushed brick and concrete is sold as road base and aggregate 
 
chipped timber is sold as mulch and woodchips 
 
metals are taken to scrap metal recyclers, and 
 
soils can be sold to landscapers.  
28. 
The term ‘transfer station’ is often used in the industry to refer to a facility that 
collects mixed waste and conducts relatively limited processing of that waste 
before transferring it to other facilities. The ACCC has not used this term as it 
appears to have somewhat different meanings to different industry participants 
and has considered these facilities as processing facilities in its assessment. 
Landfill disposal services 
29. 
Landfill owners charge a fee for use of their landfill (often referred to as a ‘gate 
fee’), which includes any applicable landfill levy. 
30. 
The NSW Government applies landfill levies that are calculated based on where 
the waste is generated, rather than where it is disposed.5 The levies are 
currently set at $141.20 per tonne for waste generated in metropolitan areas and 
$81.30 per tonne for waste generated in regional areas.  
31. 
Currently, a large proportion of NSW waste destined for landfill is transported to 
south east Queensland for disposal. Queensland does not currently charge 
landfill levies, but the Queensland Government has announced that it will 
introduce in July 2019 a landfill levy of $75 per tonne for most waste.6 When it 
commences, the Queensland levy will likely alter the incentives for parties to 
transport landfill waste from the Sydney region to south east Queensland for 
disposal.  
Areas of overlap 
32. 
Bingo and Dial-a-Dump overlap in the supply of the following services in the 
Sydney region:  
 
B&D waste collection services 
 
B&D waste processing services, and 
 
non-putrescible landfill disposal services, once Bingo’s Patons Lane facility 
becomes operational.  
                                                 
5  https://www.epa.nsw.gov.au/your-environment/waste/waste-levy/scheduled-waste  
6  https://www.qld.gov.au/environment/pollution/management/waste/recovery/disposal-levy 


 
Page 7 of 17 
33. 
Post-acquisition, Bingo would be the largest supplier of B&D waste collection 
services in the Sydney region, with a fleet of trucks significantly larger than the 
next largest B&D waste collector. It would also be the largest supplier of B&D 
waste processing services, with a network of 14 processing facilities (including 
its development sites). The next largest B&D processing competitors own three 
facilities in the Sydney region, but at least one competitor is expected to open 
more facilities in the short to medium term.   
Other industry participants 
34. 
Different companies operate at the collections, processing and landfill disposal 
levels of the B&D waste industry in the Sydney region, although some 
companies operate at more than one level (i.e. are vertically integrated).  
Collections services 
35. 
There are a large number of other skip bin companies in the Sydney region 
which collect B&D waste, but all are smaller than Bingo and Dial-a-Dump. These 
other skip bin companies include Aussie Skips, Grasshopper, Orange Bins, Just 
Skip Bins, Brown Brothers and Dump It Bins. Most of the competing skip bin 
companies do not have their own processing facilities and rely on third party 
processors to accept their waste.  
Processing services 
36. 
At the processing level, competitors to Bingo and Dial-a-Dump include:  
 
Benedict Recycling - a recycling company that accepts mixed B&D waste 
at its facilities at Belrose and at Chipping Norton.  
 
Brandown – a recycling, landfill and quarry operator with a B&D waste 
processing facility and landfill at Kemps Creek.  
 
Aussie Skips - a waste management company specialising in skip bin hire 
throughout Sydney. In addition to its skip bin hire service, Aussie Skips 
operates a B&D processing facility at Strathfield South.  
 
KLF Holdings - a waste management company that currently operates two 
B&D waste processing facilities in Camellia and Asquith. It partners with 
Just Skip Bins.  
 
Breen Resources - operates a B&D waste processing facility and landfill at 
Kurnell.  
37. 
Cleanaway Waste Management, Veolia Environmental Services, Suez Recycling 
& Recovery Holdings and Remondis are providers of C&I and/or municipal waste 
collection services in the Sydney region. They also operate C&I waste 
processing facilities which may accept some B&D waste.  
Landfill disposal services 
38. 
There are also a number of companies which compete with Dial-a-Dump in the 
supply of landfill disposal services. A list of Sydney’s non-putrescible landfills is 
included under the heading ‘Disposal of Sydney non-putrescible residual waste 


 
Page 8 of 17 
(landfill)’ below. Some of these companies such as Brandown and Breen are 
vertically integrated between the processing and landfill levels.  
Market definition 
39. 
The ACCC’s starting point for delineating relevant markets to assess the 
competitive effects of the proposed acquisition involves identifying the products 
actually or potentially supplied by the parties to the acquisition. The ACCC then 
considers what other products constitute sufficiently close substitutes to provide 
a significant source of competitive constraint. 
40. 
Based on available information, the ACCC considered it was likely that: 
 
B&D waste collections, processing and landfill disposal services are in 
separate markets 
 
C&I and B&D waste collection and processing services are in separate 
markets (although C&I collectors and processors could be potential 
entrants into B&D collections and processing services) 
 
landfill for the disposal of B&D waste is in a separate market from landfill 
for the disposal of putrescible waste 
 
the markets for B&D waste processing services are likely to be confined to 
local areas within the Sydney region, and 
 
the market for B&D waste landfill disposal services includes landfills 
located in the Sydney region and landfill facilities located in south east 
Queensland.  
Functional dimension  
41. 
A key issue in defining the relevant markets was whether competition occurs in 
separate markets for waste collection, processing and disposal services or 
whether competition occurs in markets encompassing two or more of these 
activities in the vertical supply chain.  
42. 
B&D waste collection is a separate activity to B&D waste processing and landfill 
disposal. While a number of firms that supply B&D waste collection services are 
vertically integrated (with their own processing and landfill facilities), most B&D 
waste collectors are not and use third parties for processing and landfill disposal. 
As firms do not have to be vertically integrated to compete in the supply of B&D 
waste collection services, the ACCC considered waste collection services to be 
in a separate market from processing and landfill disposal services.   
43. 
The ACCC also considered that processing and landfill disposal services are in 
separate markets. The ACCC recognised that there is some scope for 
substitution between B&D waste processing and landfill disposal. In 
circumstances where the B&D waste has a relatively low proportion of recyclable 
material, it may be cheaper for a B&D waste collector to tip a mixed load at a 
landfill than at a processing facility. That is, in some cases landfill may be an 
alternative to waste processing. While this is the case, for the most part B&D 
waste that can be recycled is recycled, as it is much less expensive to do so. 


 
Page 9 of 17 
This suggests that B&D waste processing and landfill disposal are in separate 
markets.  
Product dimension 
44. 
Three key issues arose in defining the product dimensions of the relevant 
markets. Specifically, whether: 
 
C&I and B&D waste collection services are in the same market 
 
C&I and B&D waste processing services are in the same market, and 
 
landfill for the disposal of putrescible waste is in the same market as landfill 
for the disposal of B&D waste. 
45. 
The ACCC considered that C&I waste collection services are not a commercial 
alternative for companies requiring the collection of B&D waste. The equipment 
typically used to collect C&I waste cannot be used to collect B&D waste. As a 
result, any constraint that providers of C&I waste collection services impose on 
providers of B&D waste collection services is limited.  
46. 
There is some scope for B&D waste collectors to use C&I waste processing 
facilities as an alternative to B&D waste processing facilities. However, this is 
also limited. C&I waste processors may accept light B&D waste, which is similar 
in composition to dry C&I waste. However, B&D waste collectors will typically not 
take mixed or heavy B&D waste to C&I processing facilities as generally these 
facilities will not accept the waste or will charge significantly more than a facility 
that primarily accepts B&D waste.  
47. 
There are two types of landfill: putrescible and non-putrescible. A landfill that is 
licensed to receive non-putrescible waste cannot receive putrescible waste; a 
putrescible landfill is permitted to accept both putrescible and non-putrescible 
waste. However, sites that can accept putrescible waste typically charge 
significantly more than sites that only receive non-putrescible waste. The ACCC 
therefore considered that non-putrescible landfills are likely to be in a separate 
market to putrescible landfills. 
Geographic dimensions 
48. 
The ACCC’s starting point to consider the geographic dimensions of the relevant 
markets was the Sydney region, as Bingo and Dial-a-Dump only overlap in the 
provision of B&D waste collection and processing services in that region. Patons 
Lane and Eastern Creek are both in the Sydney region. 
49. 
Competition in the supply of B&D waste processing services is local. For B&D 
waste collectors, waste processing facilities located in different parts of the 
Sydney region are not close substitutes. Market feedback indicated that it was 
not commercially viable for B&D waste collectors to transport waste far. This is 
particularly the case in inner Sydney where traffic congestion can significantly 
increase the cost per tonne of transporting waste, especially for small loads. 
Typically, B&D waste collectors seek to tip waste at a processing facility near the 
collection site or on the route to their next location. B&D waste processing 
facilities located in the same locality are the most viable alternatives for B&D 
waste collectors. 


 
Page 10 of 17 
50. 
The ACCC found that B&D waste processors dispose of residual waste in 
landfills located in the Sydney region as well as landfills located in south east 
Queensland. While transporting B&D landfill waste to south east Queensland is 
more costly, processors who dispose of B&D landfill waste in south east 
Queensland avoid the NSW Government landfill levies. The ACCC noted that 
the Queensland Government plans to impose a landfill levy of around half the 
NSW levy in July 2019. While this will increase the cost to dispose of B&D waste 
in south east Queensland, the ACCC formed the view that this will still remain a 
commercial option for B&D processors in the Sydney region. As a result, the 
ACCC concluded the relevant market for B&D waste landfill disposal services 
includes landfills located in the Sydney region and landfills located in south east 
Queensland.  
Competition analysis 
B&D waste processing services  
51. 
The ACCC assessed whether the proposed acquisition would be likely to 
substantially lessen competition in the market(s) for the supply of B&D waste 
processing services and whether this would be likely to result in increased B&D 
waste processing prices, in particular in: 
 
the Eastern Suburbs/inner city of Sydney, where Bingo’s Banksmeadow 
facility currently competes closely with Dial-a-Dump’s Alexandria facility, 
and 
 
in Western Sydney/Penrith, where Bingo’s St Marys facility and its 
proposed Patons Lane processing facilities compete and are likely to 
compete with Dial-a-Dump’s Eastern Creek facility. 
52. 
The ACCC also examined whether the proposed acquisition would increase 
Bingo’s ability to impose exclusive processing contracts on customers, by 
removing an alternative processing option for those customers.  
53. 
The ACCC considered that Bingo and Dial-a-Dump were likely to be each other’s 
closest competitor in the Eastern Suburbs/inner city. The next closest mixed 
B&D waste processor is Aussie Skips at Strathfield South, which is significantly 
further away. 
54. 
In addition to firms that process mixed B&D waste, the ACCC also had some 
regard to processors of C&I waste such as Suez, Cleanaway, Veolia and 
Remondis (shown in light grey on the map below). These processors may be an 
option for lighter loads of B&D waste that are similar in composition to C&I 
waste. However, as noted above in the discussion of market definition, market 
feedback indicated that these facilities are not a good alternative for most loads 
collected by B&D waste collectors as their facilities are generally not capable of 
processing heavy B&D waste and do not charge competitive rates for a typical 
mixed B&D waste load. The ACCC therefore considered that Suez, Veolia, 
Cleanaway and Remondis were not likely to impose a significant competitive 
constraint on Bingo post-acquisition. 
 


Page 11 of 17 
Figure 1: B&D waste processing facilities in Sydney 
 


Page 12 of 17 
55. 
Available information indicated that the likelihood of new entry or expansion in 
B&D waste processing in the Eastern Suburbs/inner city of Sydney was 
particularly low due to a scarcity of available land. 
56. 
The ACCC also considered whether the removal of Dial-a-Dump Alexandria as 
an independent rival to Bingo Banksmeadow would increase Bingo’s ability to 
impose exclusivity or minimum volume conditions on its waste processing 
customers. The ACCC was concerned that Bingo may restrict access to its 
processing facilities in areas where there are no alternative processors unless 
customers also agreed to use its facilities in other areas where there are 
alternative processors. This may have the effect of reducing volumes available to 
alternative processors, increasing their operating costs and reducing their ability 
to compete. 
57. 
To address competition concerns in relation to B&D waste processing in 
Sydney’s Eastern Suburbs and the inner city, the ACCC accepted an 
undertaking from Bingo that requires Bingo to divest its Banksmeadow waste 
processing facility. Further information about the undertaking is set out below.  
58. 
In comparison to the Eastern Suburbs/inner city, the ACCC’s review indicated 
that there were alternative processing options in Western Sydney that were likely 
to impose constraint on Bingo post-acquisition. The ACCC considered there was 
also potential for entry or expansion in this part of Sydney. For example, 
Benedict Industries proposes to open new processing sites at Girraween7 and 
Penrith.8 
Disposal of Sydney non-putrescible residual waste (landfill) 
59. 
The ACCC considered whether the proposed acquisition would be likely to lead 
to higher prices for disposal of non-putrescible residual waste generated in the 
Sydney region by removing future competition between Bingo’s Patons Lane 
landfill (expected to be operational in 2019) and Dial-a-Dump’s Eastern Creek 
landfill. 
60. 
The ACCC also considered whether combining an already large waste collector 
and processor (Bingo) with a large landfill operator (Dial-a-Dump) would give rise 
to competition concerns in B&D waste processing. It considered whether Bingo 
would be able to prevent or hinder competing B&D waste processors from 
accessing landfill disposal services at competitive prices due to its ownership of 
a significant share of non-putrescible landfill capacity in the Sydney region.  
61. 
The Statement of Issues noted that the ACCC’s preliminary view was that 
Bingo's market share of Sydney non-putrescible landfill post-acquisition 
(including Patons Lane) would be in the order of:  
 
between 15 and 25% of annual capacity, and 
 
around half of current total remaining capacity.9 
                                                 
7  https://www.benedict.com.au/locations/girraween/  
8  http://majorprojects.planning.nsw.gov.au/index.pl?action=view_job&job_id=7733  
9  The Statement of Issues (SOI) noted that these figures should be treated as a rough estimate only. 
See paragraph 97 of the SOI for more information. 


 
Page 13 of 17 
62. 
The ACCC also considered the estimated market shares of Sydney landfill 
operators based on current and expected annual throughput. 
63. 
The following table lists the non-putrescible landfills in Sydney that the ACCC 
identified.  
Table 2: Non-putrescible landfills in the Sydney region  
Owner/operator 
Location (area) 
Dial-a-Dump 
Eastern Creek (West) 
Bingo 
Patons Lane (West) – Proposed new facility 
Suez 
Kemps Creek (West) 
Veolia 
Horsley Park (West) 
Cleanaway 
Erskine Park (West) 
Brandown 
Kemps Creek (West) 
Glenfield Waste Services 
Glenfield (West) 
Breen Holdings 
Kurnell (South) 
Blacktown Waste Services 
Marsden Park (West) 
Penrith Waste Services 
Mulgoa (West) 
Wanless Recycling  
Kemps Creek (West) 
Kimbriki Environmental Enterprises 
Terrey Hills (North) 
Greenwood Landfill & Waste Recovery 
Facility 
St Ives (North) 
Alternatives to Bingo’s landfill  
64. 
As part of its review, the ACCC examined a number of possible alternatives to 
Bingo’s landfills, specifically:  
 
other landfills in the Sydney region (see Table 2 above) 
 
south east Queensland landfills 
 
regional NSW/ACT landfills, and 
 
alternative technologies such as refuse derived fuel (RDF), process 
engineered fuel (PEF)) and energy from waste (EfW). 
65. 
While individually these alternatives may not have provided a sufficient level of 
constraint, the ACCC considered that collectively they were likely to constrain 
Bingo post-acquisition. 
Other Sydney landfills 
66. 
The ACCC noted that some other non-putrescible landfills in Sydney would 
compete with Bingo post-acquisition. For example, Suez has a large landfill at 
Kemps Creek in Western Sydney.  


 
Page 14 of 17 
67. 
The ACCC did not consider that all of the non-putrescible landfills identified at 
Table 2 above were likely to be a significant constraint on Bingo post-acquisition 
because: 
 
some of the larger landfills are expected to reach total remaining capacity 
within the next few years and are likely to close, and 
 
others are small (especially in terms of remaining capacity), and are 
essentially council-run landfills and/or charge considerably more than Dial-
a-Dump for B&D waste.   
68. 
It is unlikely that new landfills will be developed in the Sydney region due to the 
difficulty and expense in obtaining a suitable site and the necessary regulatory 
approvals 
69. 
The ACCC considered that there is potential for expansion by some competing 
landfill operators extending the remaining lifespan of their facilities.  
70. 
The ACCC noted that some competing Sydney landfill operators appear to be 
currently only accepting very limited volumes of waste. While this is the case, 
they have the scope to increase the volume of waste they accept (particularly if, 
as expected, Sydney gate fees increase following the introduction of the 
Queensland levy). The ACCC considered that the prospect of these landfills 
increasing their throughput will constrain the merged firm to some degree.  
Landfills in south east Queensland 
71. 
The ACCC noted that a significant proportion of Sydney’s residual B&D waste is 
being transported and disposed of in south east Queensland landfills, as the 
additional transportation costs are outweighed by the difference in gate fees 
(including the NSW landfill levy). The incentive to send waste to Queensland for 
disposal is likely to continue while the total cost of disposal in Queensland 
(including transport costs and any levies) is lower than the total cost of disposal 
in Sydney. 
72. 
The Queensland Government has announced that it will introduce a landfill levy 
of $75 per tonne from July 2019. This may reduce the volume of Sydney waste 
being sent to south east Queensland. 
73. 
This is likely to have the effect of increasing Sydney landfill gate fees. Landfill 
operators in south east Queensland and the companies who transport waste 
from Sydney to Queensland may also have an incentive to reduce their fees in 
order to maintain revenues. If this occurs, the incentive to send waste to south 
east Queensland would be likely to remain.  
74. 
The ACCC therefore considered that landfills in south east Queensland would be 
likely to continue to impose competitive constraint on the price that Sydney dry 
landfills can charge, provided there are no additional regulatory changes that 
limit the viability of transporting waste to Queensland.  
75. 
The introduction of the Queensland levy (and resulting increases in landfill gate 
fees) may also provide an incentive for increased recycling of B&D waste 
generated in the Sydney region.  


 
Page 15 of 17 
Regional NSW/ACT landfills 
76. 
Regional landfills in the NSW and ACT appeared to provide limited constraint on 
Sydney landfill gate prices due to the applicability of the Sydney metropolitan 
landfill levy (which follows waste within NSW). The ACCC’s inquiries indicated 
that gate fees in some regional areas were the same or higher than in the 
Sydney region. Unlike the Queensland option, gate fees in regional NSW may 
not be sufficiently low to offset the increased costs of transporting B&D waste out 
of the Sydney region.  
77. 
However, there is potential for regional alternatives to provide more constraint in 
the future. For example, the introduction of the Queensland levy could lead to 
more landfill capacity being developed in regional NSW. In this regard, the 
ACCC considered that there is a higher likelihood of new landfills being 
established in regional NSW than in the Sydney region. 
Alternative technologies  
78. 
The ACCC understands that RDF/PEF plants convert waste into fuel. RDF/PEF 
may be either used locally (although options are currently very limited) or 
exported to countries where waste incineration is more common. The term EfW 
is generally used to refer to plants that actually convert the RDF/PEF or other 
waste material into energy (e.g. by incineration). 
79. 
The ACCC’s inquiries indicated that new technologies that provide an alternative 
to landfill disposal are still in their infancy in Australia. They are unlikely to 
provide a strong competitive constraint in the short term as the input volumes are 
relatively small, and there are limitations on the types of waste that are suitable 
for processing into fuel as the material must be of high calorific value.  
80. 
Reliance on these technologies as an alternative to landfill disposal is likely to 
continue to grow, as it has in overseas jurisdictions, although most available 
information indicates that progress will be slow. The ACCC considered it likely 
that additional RDF/PEF facilities will be developed in the Sydney region in the 
medium term to long term. 
Conclusions on landfill  
81. 
The ACCC concluded that the loss of potential future competition between 
Bingo’s Patons Lane facility and Dial-a-Dump’s Eastern Creek facility was not 
likely to amount to a substantial lessening of competition, due to: 
 
the relatively small size of the Patons Lane facility (at least in terms of 
annual capacity), and 
 
the collective constraint from the range of alternatives to Bingo’s landfills 
identified above, in particular other Sydney landfills and south east 
Queensland landfills. Although each of the alternatives to Bingo’s landfills 
identified above has limitations, the ACCC formed the view that collectively 
they were likely to provide a sufficient competitive constraint on the merged 
firm.  
82. 
Although the proposed acquisition would combine an already large waste 
collector and processor (Bingo) with a large landfill operator (Dial-a-Dump), the 


 
Page 16 of 17 
ACCC considered that it was unlikely that Bingo would be able to prevent 
competing B&D waste processors from accessing dry landfill at competitive 
prices because: 
 
based on available information, it appeared unlikely that Bingo would have 
sufficient share of the available supply of landfill waste disposal services 
(taking into account the range of options discussed above) to be able to 
effectively foreclose access to competing B&D processors, and 
 
some of Bingo’s key B&D waste processing competitors are also vertically 
integrated between the processing and landfill disposal services levels, 
which will afford these competitors some protection from any foreclosure 
strategy by Bingo.  
B&D waste collections services in Sydney  
83. 
Bingo and Dial-a-Dump are currently the two largest B&D waste collections 
companies in the Sydney region. Information received by the ACCC indicated 
that Bingo and Dial-a-Dump supply between 25 to 30% of B&D waste collection 
services in the Sydney region.  
84. 
While a large proportion of the remaining market is comprised of very small 
collections companies, the ACCC found that there was a sufficient number of 
rival collectors that do currently impose a constraint on Bingo and Dial-a-Dump. 
Data and information available to the ACCC showed that these rivals have been 
able to win customers from Bingo and Dial-a-Dump on a regular basis. 
Information available to the ACCC also indicated that large customers are able 
to separate out their contracts with B&D waste collectors to enable them to 
sponsor the expansion of smaller collection companies. 
85. 
The ACCC found that barriers to entry and expansion for B&D waste collectors 
do not appear high, provided they are able to tip waste at processing facilities at 
competitive rates, as the cost of trucks and skips is not prohibitive and there is a 
market for second-hand vehicles. The ACCC is also aware of a number of 
competitors that have recently expanded their collections businesses.  
86. 
The ACCC examined whether rival collectors would have sufficient alternative 
options for B&D waste processing services post-acquisition. The ACCC was 
concerned that the competitive constraint currently imposed by rival collectors 
and the threat of new entry was likely to be reduced if rivals’ processing costs 
increased, or if they had to travel further to access alternative processing 
facilities outside the Eastern Suburbs/inner city. Travelling further would increase 
transportation costs and time, as well as reducing the number of customers a 
truck can service in a day. 
87. 
The divestiture undertaking given by Bingo addressed these competition 
concerns, as the undertaking will assist in ensuring that there will be alternative 
options for rival collectors. Further information about the undertaking is set out 
below. 


 
Page 17 of 17 
Undertaking 
88. 
The ACCC accepted a divestiture undertaking from Bingo to remedy competition 
concerns in respect of B&D waste processing and collection services in 
Sydney’s Eastern Suburbs and inner city. 
89. 
A brief summary of the undertaking is set out below: 
 
Divestiture package – the Banksmeadow waste processing facility, 
including all assets and equipment on site, and the transfer of relevant 
employees. 
 
Sale or lease of the land – the approved purchaser of the facility may 
either purchase or enter into a long term lease of the land on which the 
waste processing facility is located, as determined by agreement between 
Bingo and the approved purchaser. 
 
Purchaser approval – the ACCC must approve the proposed purchaser. 
 
Tipping option – in certain circumstances, Bingo must enter into an 
agreement (to be approved by the ACCC) to allow the purchaser to tip 
waste at Bingo’s landfills for a minimum of seven and a half years. 
 
Independent Lease Manager – if the purchaser leases the land from 
Bingo, Bingo must appoint an ACCC approved independent lease 
manager to manage the lease independently of Bingo. 
 
Independent management and auditing – Bingo must appoint an ACCC 
approved independent manager to manage the facility from the completion 
date of the proposed acquisition until Banksmeadow is divested to the 
approved purchaser. Bingo must also appoint an ACCC approved 
independent auditor to monitor Bingo’s compliance with the undertaking. 
90. 
The ACCC considered that the divestiture of Bingo’s Banksmeadow facility was 
capable of resolving competition concerns in relation to both B&D waste 
processing and collection services by: 
 
maintaining competition between the Banksmeadow and Alexandria waste 
processing facilities that would otherwise be lost as a result of the 
proposed acquisition, and 
 
providing an alternative to Bingo’s Alexandria waste processing facility if 
Bingo attempted to impose exclusive waste processing arrangements on 
customers. 
91. 
A copy of the undertaking is available on the ACCC mergers register and 
undertakings register. 
Conclusion 
92. 
Based on the above analysis, the ACCC concluded that the proposed acquisition 
of Dial-a-Dump by Bingo, taking into account the undertaking, would not have 
the effect, or would not be likely to have the effect, of substantially lessening 
competition in any market. 
