Page 1 of 27 
 
Statement of Issues 
29 November 2018 
 Bingo – proposed acquisition of Dial-a-Dump  
Purpose 
1. 
Bingo Industries Limited (Bingo) proposes to acquire Dial-a-Dump Industries Pty 
Ltd (Dial-a-Dump) (the proposed acquisition). 
2. 
This Statement of Issues: 
• 
gives the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission’s (ACCC) 
preliminary views of the competition issues arising from the proposed 
acquisition 
• 
identifies areas of further inquiry, and 
• 
invites interested parties to submit comments and information to assist our 
assessment of the issues. 
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views 
3. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is 
in section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits 
acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of 
substantially lessening competition in any market. 
4. 
The ACCC divides its preliminary views into three categories, 'issues of concern', 
'issues that may raise concerns' and ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’. 
Issues that may raise concerns 
5. 
The ACCC is considering potential competition issues at three different levels of 
the industry: processing, landfill and collections. However, these three levels in 
the supply chain are closely linked, as competition in landfill can affect 
competition at the processing level, and competition at the processing level can 
affect competition at the collections level.  


Bingo – proposed acquisition of Dial-a-Dump 
 
Page 2 of 27 
6. 
In relation to building and demolition (B&D) waste processing services in 
Sydney, the ACCC has preliminary concerns that the proposed acquisition may 
substantially lessen competition by removing Bingo’s most substantial 
competitor, leading to increased waste processing rates, particularly in the 
Eastern Suburbs and Western Sydney. The ACCC is also assessing whether the 
acquisition will increase Bingo’s ability to impose exclusive processing contracts 
to the detriment of competition in processing.  
7. 
In relation to landfill, the ACCC has preliminary concerns that the proposed 
acquisition may substantially lessen competition in the market for the supply of 
non-putrescible landfill services in Sydney, leading to higher prices. The 
proposed acquisition would remove future competition between Dial-a-Dump’s 
Eastern Creek landfill and Bingo’s proposed Patons Lane landfill. The 
introduction of the Queensland landfill levy may mean that transporting residual 
waste to Queensland will no longer be viable, increasing the importance of 
competition amongst Sydney landfill providers. Furthermore, if rivals have limited 
alternative options for non-putrescible landfill, the proposed acquisition may also 
lessen competition in B&D processing services, as processors need access to 
landfill.  
8. 
The ACCC also has preliminary concerns in relation to B&D waste collection 
services in Sydney. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that competing B&D waste 
collectors require access to processing facilities at competitive rates in order to 
be able to compete with Bingo. Therefore, if rivals have limited options in the 
acquisition of B&D waste processing services, the proposed acquisition may also 
substantially lessen competition in the supply of B&D waste collection services. 
9. 
Finally, the ACCC also has preliminary concerns about the increased vertical 
integration that would result from the proposed acquisition. If there are limited 
alternatives to a combined Bingo-Dial-a-Dump at the landfill level, the proposed 
acquisition may substantially lessen competition at the processing level. If there 
are limited alternatives at the processing level, the proposed acquisition may 
substantially lessen competition at the collections level. 
Making a submission 
10. 
The ACCC is seeking submissions from interested parties, particularly on the 
following key issues: 
• 
the availability of other competitive options for B&D waste processing 
services for customers in Sydney 
• 
the availability of other competitive options for non-putrescible landfill 
services in Sydney (including alternatives such as waste to energy), and 
• 
the extent to which competition in collection is dependent on competition in 
processing.  
11. 
Detailed discussion of these and other issues, along with specific questions, is 
contained in this Statement of Issues.  
12. 
Interested parties should provide submissions by no later than 5pm on Thursday, 
13 December 2018. Responses may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with 
the title: Submission re: Bingo/Dial-a-Dump - attention Elizabeth Elias/Janet Li. If 


Bingo – proposed acquisition of Dial-a-Dump 
 
Page 3 of 27 
you would like to discuss the matter with ACCC officers over the telephone or in 
person, or have any questions about this Statement of Issues, please contact 
Elizabeth Elias on 02 6243 1104 or Janet Li on 02 9102 4024.  
13. 
The ACCC anticipates making a final decision on Thursday, 21 February 2019, 
however, this timeline can change. To keep abreast of possible changes in 
relation to timing and to find relevant documents, interested parties should visit 
the Mergers Register on the ACCC's website at 
www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
Confidentiality of submissions 
14. 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We 
will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) 
unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation 
or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition 
and Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where possible so that you may 
have an opportunity to be heard. Therefore, if the information provided to the 
ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’ 
15. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well 
as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
16. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 
Timeline 
Date 
Event 
13 September 2018 
ACCC commenced review of the proposed 
acquisition 
29 November 2018 
ACCC publication of Statement of Issues 
13 December 2018 
Deadline for submissions from interested parties in 
response to this Statement of Issues 
21 February 2019 
Anticipated date for ACCC final decision  


Bingo – proposed acquisition of Dial-a-Dump 
 
Page 4 of 27 
Industry background 
17. 
The ACCC understands that the waste management industry comprises three 
main categories of activities:  
• 
Collections which involves collecting and transporting the waste to post-
collection facilities for processing or landfilling, 
• 
Processing which involves the sorting, processing and recycling of waste, 
and the sale of some recycled products, and  
• 
Landfilling which involves disposal of the waste material that remains after 
recyclable material has been removed (referred to as residual waste). 
There are also alternatives to landfill, such as the processing of residual 
waste for use in waste-to-energy plants.  
Types of waste 
18. 
The three major streams in the waste industry are: 
• 
B&D waste: produced by the demolition and construction of residential and 
commercial buildings, civil projects, infrastructure development and 
household renovations. B&D waste is non-putrescible. Putrescible waste 
contains putrescible organics, such as food waste. Non-putrescible waste 
is primarily non-organic waste that is composed of materials such as 
bricks, concrete, soil, timber, glass, plastic, rubber, plasterboard, ceramics, 
metal, paper and cardboard. Non-putrescible waste may be recyclable or 
non-recyclable. Non-putrescible waste is also referred to as solid waste. 
• 
Commercial and Industrial (C&I) waste: mainly generated from commercial 
buildings and businesses, government facilities, educational institutions 
and industrial sites. C&I waste is generally a mixture of putrescible and 
non-putrescible materials (typically collected in different bin types to 
segregate the recyclable materials). 
• 
Municipal waste: a mixture of putrescible and non-putrescible waste 
collected from households through curb side collection (typically collected 
in different bin types to segregate the recyclable materials). 
19. 
In this matter, the most relevant waste stream is B&D waste. 
20. 
The composition of B&D waste varies and may include a mix of light and heavy 
materials:  
• 
Light B&D waste includes cardboard, paper, plastics and plasterboard.  
• 
Heavy B&D waste includes bricks, concrete, timber and soils. 
Collections  
21. 
Waste collection services comprise the delivery of bins or skips to customers, 
picking up and transporting waste from the point of generation to post-collection 
facilities.  


Bingo – proposed acquisition of Dial-a-Dump 
 
Page 5 of 27 
22. 
Typically, there are variations between collections of the different waste streams: 
• 
C&I waste is typically collected using either a front or rear lift truck. 
Collections companies usually provide bins to their customers that are 
typically hoppers on wheels with a lid or wheelie bins, like those used for 
household collections.  
• 
B&D waste is typically collected using a hook lift or Marrell truck. 
Customers are provided with steel, open-faced skips that are typically 
more durable than the bins used in C&I due to the heavy waste they are 
designed to collect.  
23. 
B&D waste is typically collected from building and construction sites. Depending 
on the stage of the project, the types of B&D waste generated may vary: 
• 
Demolition: the principal types of waste generated during the demolition of 
an existing structure are bricks, concrete, steel and timber. Specialist 
demolition companies will generally also provide B&D collection services 
as part of the demolition service. 
• 
Excavation: during the excavation phase of the project, soils are the 
principal form of B&D waste generated. 
• 
Construction: during the construction phase of a project, a mixture of light 
and heavy B&D waste is generated.   
Processing 
24. 
After the B&D waste is collected, it is then transported to a processing facility. 
The stages of processing include:  
• 
Sorting material into its component parts. Some facilities do not have the 
machinery to sort material by an automated process and will use 
equipment like excavators to sort manually. Even where a facility has 
equipment to sort the waste, it will often do an initial sort using an 
excavator to reduce the amount of light waste and soils going through the 
machinery. 
• 
Recycling reusable material, for example crushing bricks and concrete, 
and chipping timber. Some facilities have equipment to do this on site, 
while others will consolidate the sorted waste before transferring to other 
facilities that have the necessary equipment. There are a number of 
material-specific recyclers (i.e. facilities that recycle bricks and concrete 
only). 
• 
Selling reusable products: 
o Crushed brick and concrete is sold as road base and aggregate 
o Chipped timber is sold as mulch and woodchips 
o Metals are taken to scrap metal recyclers, and 
o Soils can be sold to landscapers.  


Bingo – proposed acquisition of Dial-a-Dump 
 
Page 6 of 27 
25. 
The types of equipment needed to sort and process heavy B&D waste vary from 
the equipment used to sort light B&D or general household recyclable waste. 
Some processing facilities will not accept heavy B&D waste or will disincentivise 
B&D collectors from using their facilities (by charging high prices) as they do not 
have the equipment or space to sort the waste into the component parts 
efficiently.  
Landfills  
26. 
Landfill owners charge a fee for use of their landfill (often referred to as a ‘gate 
fee’). 
27. 
In NSW, there are two types of landfill: putrescible and non-putrescible. A landfill 
that is licensed to receive non-putrescible waste cannot receive putrescible 
waste; a putrescible landfill is permitted to accept both putrescible and non-
putrescible waste. However, sites that can accept putrescible waste are 
significantly more costly.   
28. 
Currently, a large proportion of waste destined for landfill generated in NSW is 
taken to Queensland. The NSW Government applies landfill levies of $141.20 
per tonne for waste generated in metropolitan areas and $81.30 per tonne for 
waste generated in regional areas. The NSW levy is calculated based on where 
the waste is generated, rather than where it is disposed.1 The Queensland 
Government has proposed to introduce a landfill levy in July 2019 of $75 per 
tonne for most waste.2 When it commences, the Queensland levy will alter the 
incentives on New South Wales landfill customers to transport waste to 
Queensland.  
The parties 
Bingo  
29. 
Bingo is a publicly listed waste management company (ASX: BIN) that provides 
waste collection and processing services in NSW and some parts of Victoria. 
Bingo primarily services B&D and C&I customers. Bingo also manufactures and 
supplies bins under the TORO brand, supplies soil and sand, and has a small 
presence in the liquid waste business.  
30. 
Bingo operates 12 B&D waste processing facilities in NSW, ten of which are in 
the Greater Sydney area. Bingo is also developing a processing facility and 
landfill at Patons Lane in Western Sydney, and a processing facility at 
Silverwater in Western Sydney. Patons Lane is a 60 hectare site with approved 
annual recycling throughput of up to 350,000 tonnes per annum and landfill 
capacity of 4.3 million tonnes with a maximum operational life of approximately 
25 years. The site has development approvals in place and is expected to 
become operational in FY20.3 
 
                                                 
 
1 https://www.epa.nsw.gov.au/your-environment/waste/waste-levy/scheduled-waste  
2 https://www.qld.gov.au/environment/pollution/management/waste/recovery/disposal-levy 
3 Bingo ASX announcement, 27 November 2017. 


Bingo – proposed acquisition of Dial-a-Dump 
 
Page 7 of 27 
Dial-a-Dump 
31. 
Dial-a-Dump is a privately owned company, providing waste collection and 
processing services in the Sydney area. Dial-a-Dump operates two waste 
processing facilities at Alexandria and Eastern Creek, which also has a landfill. 
Eastern Creek has a combined processing and landfill capacity of 2 million 
tonnes per annum. Dial-a-Dump also supplies woodchips/mulch, road base and 
aggregates, and soil and sand. 
Other industry participants 
32. 
Different companies operate at the collections, processing and landfill levels of 
the B&D waste industry in Sydney, although some operators are vertically 
integrated between levels. 
33. 
The ACCC understands that there is a large number of other skip bin companies 
in Sydney which collect B&D waste, but all are significantly smaller than Bingo 
and Dial-a-Dump. These other skip bin companies include Aussie Skips, 
Grasshopper, Orange Bins, Just Skip Bins, Brown Brothers and Dump It Bins. 
Most of the competing skip bin companies do not have their own processing 
facilities and rely on third party processors to accept their waste. 
34. 
At the processing level, competitors to Bingo and Dial-a-Dump include: 
• 
Benedict Recycling Pty Ltd, a recycling company that accepts mixed B&D 
waste at its facilities at Belrose and at Chipping Norton.   
• 
Brandown Pty Ltd, which operates a B&D waste processing facility and 
landfill at Kemps Creek. 
• 
Aussie Skip Bin Services Pty Ltd, a waste management company 
specialising in skip bin hire throughout the Sydney metropolitan area. In 
addition to its skip bin hire service, Aussie Skips operates a B&D 
processing facility at Strathfield South.  
• 
KLF Holdings Pty Ltd, a waste management company that currently 
operates two B&D waste processing facilities in Camellia and Asquith. It 
partners with Just Skip Bins.  
• 
Breen Resources Pty Ltd, which operates a B&D waste processing facility 
and landfill at Kurnell. 
35. 
The following companies are providers of C&I and/or municipal waste collection 
services in Sydney, and operate C&I waste processing facilities which may 
accept some B&D waste:  
• 
Cleanaway Waste Management Limited (Cleanaway) is an Australian 
publicly listed company (ASX: CWY) with a range of waste operations 
across the country. It has a joint venture facility with ResourceCo at 
Wetherill Park in Sydney which is licensed to receive both C&I and B&D 
waste for conversion into process engineered fuel. 
• 
Veolia Environmental Services (Australia) Pty Ltd (Veolia) is a subsidiary 
of the French company Veolia Environment S.A., and has waste 


Bingo – proposed acquisition of Dial-a-Dump 
 
Page 8 of 27 
operations across Australia. In Sydney, it provides municipal, C&I and B&D 
waste services. It has transfer stations at Port Botany and Greenacre and 
a non-putrescible landfill at Horsley Park. It also has rail transfer terminals 
at Banksmeadow and Clyde, which consolidate waste for transfer to its 
putrescible landfill at Woodlawn in southern NSW. 
• 
Suez Recycling & Recovery Holdings Pty Limited (Suez) is a subsidiary of 
the French company SUEZ, and has waste operations across Australia. 
Suez has seven waste processing facilities in Sydney. It also has a non-
putrescible landfill at Elizabeth Drive, Kemps Creek and a putrescible 
landfill at Lucas Heights. 
• 
Remondis Australia Pty Ltd (Remondis) is a subsidiary of the German 
company Remondis Group, and has various waste operations in Australia. 
Remondis has a processing facility at Taren Point in Sydney. 
36. 
There is also a number of companies which compete with Dial-a-Dump in the 
supply of landfill disposal services. These companies are referred to in the 
relevant sections below. 
The proposed transaction 
37. 
Pursuant to an agreement entered into on 21 August 2018, Bingo proposes to 
acquire 100% of the shares in Alexandria Landfill Pty Ltd, the holding company 
of Dial-a-Dump, for $577.5 million.4 The transaction is conditional on ACCC 
approval. 
Areas of overlap 
38. 
Bingo and Dial-a-Dump overlap in the supply of the following services in Sydney: 
• 
B&D waste collection services 
• 
B&D waste processing services, and 
• 
Non-putrescible landfill services once Bingo’s Patons Lane facility 
becomes operational. 
39. 
Post-acquisition, Bingo would be the largest B&D waste collector in Sydney, with 
a fleet of trucks significantly larger than the next largest B&D waste collector. It 
would also be the largest supplier of B&D processing services, with a network of 
14 processing facilities (including its development sites). The next largest B&D 
processing competitor owns three facilities in the Sydney area. 
40. 
Bingo is also currently developing a facility at Patons Lane that would have 
landfill capacity of approximately 4.3 million tonnes or 25 years. It is expected to 
be operational in FY20.  
                                                 
 
4 Bingo ASX announcement, 21 August 2018. 


Bingo – proposed acquisition of Dial-a-Dump 
 
Page 9 of 27 
Previous ACCC decisions 
41. 
The ACCC has considered a number of acquisitions in the waste industry, the 
most recent being Cleanaway’s proposed acquisition of Tox Free. 
42. 
On 24 April 2018, the ACCC announced that it would not oppose Cleanaway’s 
proposed acquisition of Tox Free. Cleanaway and Tox Free were both active in a 
number of different waste streams. The ACCC considered that Cleanaway’s 
acquisition was unlikely to substantially lessen competition in regional or local 
council area markets for C&I and/or B&D waste collections in Queensland due to 
the number of existing competitors that were likely to constrain Cleanaway post-
acquisition. The ACCC noted the growing consolidation in the waste industry and 
that any future merger or acquisition involving any large suppliers of waste 
management services would be closely investigated.  
Market definition 
43. 
The ACCC’s starting point for defining relevant markets, to assess the 
competitive effects of the proposed acquisition, involves identifying the products 
and geographic regions actually or potentially supplied by the parties to the 
transaction. The ACCC then focuses on areas of activity where competitive harm 
could occur as a result of the proposed acquisition. 
44. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that there are likely to be separate markets for 
each of: 
• 
B&D waste collection  
• 
B&D waste processing, and 
• 
Landfilling of residual B&D waste. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that this 
market is not likely to include putrescible landfill sites due to the higher 
price charged for non-putrescible waste at these sites. 
Product dimension 
B&D versus C&I 
45. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that B&D collections and processing are distinct 
from C&I collections and processing. 
46. 
The ACCC understands that B&D collections customers typically have different 
requirements from C&I collections customers. B&D customers are generally 
companies or individuals undertaking some type of construction work and 
require open-faced skip bins with on demand collection. C&I customers mainly 
include corporate and government offices, supermarkets and other retail outlets. 
As these customers often generate putrescible waste, they require bins with lids 
to minimise odours and vermin. C&I collections are generally scheduled weekly 
or more frequently. Customers that acquire both C&I and B&D services tend to 
tender for these services separately. The ACCC also understands that there is a 
limited number of competitors tendering for both B&D and C&I collections 
contracts. 


Bingo – proposed acquisition of Dial-a-Dump 
 
Page 10 of 27 
47. 
The ACCC considers the potential for supply side substitution by C&I collectors 
into B&D waste collections is limited. The trucks and bins used for C&I 
collections are not typically used for B&D collections, and so a C&I collector 
seeking to expand into B&D collections would need to expand its fleet of trucks 
and skips.  
48. 
At the processing level, the ACCC understands that there is some overlap 
between C&I and B&D waste: for example, C&I facilities may accept light B&D 
waste. However, B&D waste collectors will typically not take mixed or heavy 
B&D waste to C&I processing facilities as some facilities will not accept the 
waste or will charge significantly more than a facility that primarily accepts B&D 
waste.  
49. 
While the ACCC considers C&I collections and processing are likely to be in 
separate markets from B&D collections and processing, the ACCC will consider 
C&I collectors and processors as potential entrants into B&D collections and 
processing (see ‘likelihood of entry or expansion’ below). 
Collections, processing and landfill 
50. 
The ACCC considers that B&D waste collection is likely to be in a separate 
market from processing and landfilling, as many skip bin collectors do not own 
their own processing facilities or landfill, and rely on third parties for processing 
and landfill. As such, there are likely to be different competitive conditions for 
waste collection and post-collections. 
51. 
In relation to waste processing, the ACCC is focusing on the processing facilities 
that accept mixed B&D waste. Market feedback suggests that while some 
collections customers will attempt to sort their waste by material type, many 
customers do not. B&D collectors therefore typically require a processing facility 
that is capable of sorting mixed B&D waste. Facilities that only accept one type 
of material (for example, only brick/concrete) are not likely to be a significant 
constraint on Bingo post-acquisition. 
52. 
The ACCC considers that B&D processing is likely to be in a separate market 
from landfill. The ACCC notes that B&D processing and landfill facilities are 
sometimes co-located and some companies do both. However, processing 
facilities in the inner suburbs of Sydney do not have landfills. Processing facilities 
and landfills require different types of licences issued by the NSW Environmental 
Protection Authority (EPA) and development approvals from the NSW 
Department of Planning & Environment, and so processors cannot commence 
landfilling without obtaining the relevant approvals, and vice versa.  
53. 
In some cases, for example where a skip bin load contains a high proportion of 
non-recyclable waste (such as gyprock), it may be cost-effective to transport it 
directly to landfill. However, typically landfill is not an alternative to processing for 
most collectors because the cost of disposal would be significantly higher.  
54. 
The ACCC understands that landfills licensed to accept putrescible waste are 
also permitted to accept non-putrescible waste (such as B&D waste) and 
therefore compete with non-putrescible landfills to some extent. However, 
market feedback has indicated that the rate putrescible landfills charge for non-
putrescible waste is significantly higher than that charged by most non-
putrescible landfills. Further, the ACCC understands that putrescible landfill 
space in Sydney is also scarce and Suez's Lucas Heights facility is the only 


Bingo – proposed acquisition of Dial-a-Dump 
 
Page 11 of 27 
putrescible landfill located in Sydney. Accordingly, the ACCC's preliminary view 
is that putrescible landfills are not likely to impose a significant competitive 
constraint on Bingo post-acquisition.  
Geographic dimension 
55. 
The ACCC’s starting point to consider the geographic dimension of the relevant 
markets is Sydney, as Bingo and Dial-a-Dump only overlap in the provision of 
B&D collections and processing in the Sydney area. 
56. 
However, for processing, information available to the ACCC indicates that it is 
not viable for B&D waste collectors to transport waste long distances from the 
customer premises (particularly in inner Sydney) due to traffic congestion, 
relatively small loads which result in high transport costs per tonne and 
opportunity costs incurred if a collector travels longer distances to a processing 
facility (i.e. the lost profits from other loads that the truck could be collecting). 
Therefore, skip bin collectors will typically transport waste to a processing facility 
that is near to the collection site, or on the route to their next pick-up location, or 
where the driver drops the truck off at the end of their shift and prices 
competitively. As such, the ACCC is considering whether the geographic 
dimension for B&D waste processing is narrower than Sydney, for example a 
separate market for the Eastern Suburbs and a separate market for Western 
Sydney. This is discussed further under the heading ‘Issue that may raise 
concerns: B&D waste processing’ below. 
57. 
In relation to landfill, the ACCC is still considering the relevant geographic 
dimension of the market. A large amount of residual B&D waste, which may 
include material that is capable of being recycled, is currently transported to 
Queensland in order to avoid the NSW landfill levy, although this may change 
after introduction of a Queensland landfill levy in July 2019.5 The ACCC is also 
considering whether landfills in other parts of NSW are an alternative to landfills 
in Sydney, noting that the NSW metropolitan landfill levy would apply as well as 
higher transport costs (compared to disposing of landfill within Sydney). 
58. 
The ACCC is also considering the extent to which the geographic market for 
landfill may be broader than for collections and processing because landfill 
waste appears to be consolidated onto larger trucks and can therefore travel 
further. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary views about 
the definition of the relevant markets. In particular, market participants may wish to 
comment on: 
• 
The likelihood of C&I collectors such as Suez, Cleanaway and Veolia expanding 
into B&D waste collection, or into B&D waste processing 
• 
The cost of transporting B&D waste to a processing facility, including the effect on 
a collector’s ability to meet customer service level requirements 
• 
The furthest distance that a B&D collector would travel to an alternative processing 
facility if the price charged by a processor increased by 5 to 10% 
                                                 
 
5 https://www.qld.gov.au/environment/pollution/management/waste/recovery/disposal-levy  


Bingo – proposed acquisition of Dial-a-Dump 
 
Page 12 of 27 
• 
The cost of transporting B&D waste to landfills in Queensland per tonne per km 
Issue that may raise concerns: B&D waste processing 
59. 
Post-acquisition, Bingo will have an increased network of B&D waste processing 
sites around Sydney. Market feedback has indicated that B&D waste collectors 
are limited in the distance they can viably transport their skip bins to a 
processing facility. Therefore, the ACCC is focussing its review on the parts of 
Sydney where Bingo’s and Dial-a-Dump’s processing facilities overlap. 
60. 
Based upon its inquiries to date, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the 
proposed acquisition may be likely to substantially lessen competition in the 
supply of B&D waste processing services in: 
• 
the Eastern Suburbs/inner city, where Bingo’s Banksmeadow processing 
facility currently competes with Dial-a-Dump’s Alexandria facility, and 
• 
Western Sydney/Penrith, where Bingo’s St Marys and proposed Patons 
Lane processing facilities compete (or are likely to compete) with Dial-a-
Dump’s Eastern Creek facility. 
61. 
However, the ACCC is also considering whether the proposed acquisition may 
affect competition in B&D waste processing across Sydney more broadly. In 
particular, the ACCC is considering whether the proposed acquisition is likely to 
increase Bingo’s ability to impose exclusive waste processing agreements on 
B&D waste collectors (discussed further below). 
Competition between B&D processing facilities 
62. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that Bingo and Dial-a-Dump compete closely in 
the supply of B&D processing services in Sydney, particularly in the Eastern 
Suburbs/inner city and Western Sydney/Penrith.  
63. 
Bingo has a network of 12 processing facilities around Sydney, including its 
development sites at Patons Lane and Silverwater. Dial-a-Dump has two 
processing sites at Alexandria (Eastern Suburbs) and Eastern Creek (Western 
Sydney/Penrith).  
64. 
As noted in the market definition section above, collectors will choose a 
processing facility that accepts mixed B&D waste based on price and location 
relative to the collection site and the location they are travelling to next. Many 
competing B&D waste collectors considered that the longest distance they would 
travel to a B&D waste processing facility was approximately 20km (or shorter 
distances in the inner city areas due to traffic) or an hour return before the 
increased transportation costs could make them uncompetitive for collections 
contracts.  
65. 
The ACCC understands that while there are circumstances where large loads of 
waste are transported long distances (such as the residual B&D waste which is 
currently sent to Queensland in B-double trucks or via rail), B&D waste collectors 
generally carry relatively small loads (typically a few tonnes at a time) and 
therefore the transport costs per tonne per kilometre are relatively high. 


Bingo – proposed acquisition of Dial-a-Dump 
 
Page 13 of 27 
66. 
Market participants also suggested that an additional hour in travel time to and 
from a processing facility was likely to have a significant impact on the number of 
collections jobs a truck could do in a day, or significantly increase their costs by 
requiring them to operate additional trucks to service the same number of 
customers.  
67. 
As identified in the market definition section above, the ACCC’s preliminary view 
is that material-specific recyclers (for example, those that accept only brick and 
concrete) are generally not a good alternative to facilities that accept mixed B&D 
waste, and as such are likely to, at most, impose a weak constraint on a 
combined Bingo-Dial-a-Dump. 
68. 
The map and table below identifies the B&D processing facilities that the ACCC 
is aware of that may accept third party mixed B&D waste volumes in the Sydney 
area. 


Bingo – proposed acquisition of Dial-a-Dump 
 
Page 14 of 27 
Figure 1: Map of mixed B&D waste processing facilities in Greater Sydney Region 
 


Bingo – proposed acquisition of Dial-a-Dump 
 
Page 15 of 27 
Table 1: Mixed B&D waste processing facilities in Sydney Region 
No. 
Company 
Location 
1. 
Bingo 
Artarmon, Northern Suburbs 
Auburn, Western Sydney 
Banksmeadow, South East Sydney 
Greenacre, South-West Sydney 
Ingleburn, South-West Sydney 
Minto (redevelopment),South West Sydney 
Mortdale (redevelopment), Southern Districts  
Patons Lane (development), Western 
Sydney 
Revesby, South West Sydney 
Silverwater (development), Western Sydney 
Smithfield, Western Sydney 
St Marys, outer west 
2. 
AE Biggs 
Oxford Falls, Upper North Sydney 
3. 
Aussie Skips 
Strathfield South, Inner West 
4. 
Benedict 
Recycling 
Chipping Norton, Western Sydney 
Belrose, Northern Beaches 
5. 
Brandown 
Kemps Creek, Western Sydney 
6. 
Breen Holdings 
Kurnell, Sutherland Shire 
7. 
Cleanaway 
Wetherill Park 
8. 
Dump It Bins 
Smithfield 
9. 
Glenfield Waste 
Services 
Glenfield 
 
No. 
Company 
Location 
10. 
Greenwood Waste 
Recovery 
Belrose 
11. 
GPP Excavation 
and Demolition 
Chullora 
12. 
Hi-Quality Waste 
Management 
St Marys 
Bringelly 
13. 
KLF Holdings / 
Just Skip Bins 
Camellia, Western Sydney 
Asquith, Upper Northern Suburbs 
14. 
MET Recycling 
Silverwater 
15. 
Remondis 
Taren Point 
16. 
Suez 
Artarmon, Northern Suburbs 
Auburn 
Belrose 
Kemps Creek 
Lucas Heights 
Rockdale, Southern Districts 
Ryde 
Seven Hills 
Wetherill Park 
17. 
Veolia 
Greenacre, South Western Sydney 
Horsley Park, Western Sydney 
Port Botany/Matraville, South East 
Sydney  
18. 
Wanless Recycling 
Kemps Creek 


Bingo – proposed acquisition of Dial-a-Dump 
 
Page 16 of 27 
69. 
The ACCC has included on this map seven facilities operated by Suez and three 
operated by Veolia. 
70. 
However, market feedback indicates that Suez and Veolia are not a good 
alternative for most B&D waste loads as their facilities are not capable of 
processing heavy B&D waste and therefore do not charge competitive rates for a 
typical mixed B&D waste load. They are likely to only be a viable alternative for 
light loads.  
71. 
The ACCC therefore considers that Suez and Veolia may not impose a 
significant competitive constraint on Bingo post-acquisition. 
Eastern Suburbs and CBD 
72. 
The ACCC considers that Dial-a-Dump and Bingo are likely to be each other’s 
most substantial competitor for B&D waste processing in the Eastern Suburbs. 
73. 
In the Eastern Suburbs of Sydney, Dial-a-Dump operates a B&D waste 
processing facility at Alexandria and Bingo operates a facility at Banksmeadow. 
These facilities are located south of the Sydney CBD and there are limited 
alternative processing facilities that accept third party B&D waste in that area. 
The ACCC understands that these facilities are likely to attract a large volume of 
the waste collected in the CBD and the Eastern Suburbs of Sydney. 
74. 
Some market participants have identified that when processing prices increased 
at Bingo Banksmeadow, they were able to avoid the price increase by increasing 
the volume of waste tipped at Dial-a-Dump Alexandria. Following the loss of 
processing volume, Bingo reduced its prices. Market participants are concerned 
that if the proposed acquisition went ahead, Bingo would be able to sustain 
future price increases. 
75. 
Veolia has a processing facility at Port Botany but, as noted above, market 
feedback indicates that this is primarily a C&I facility and the rates charged mean 
that it is only likely to be a viable option for B&D waste collectors when they have 
a particularly light load of waste to dispose of. The closest Suez facility is at 
Rockdale. While the ACCC understands that the sign outside this facility states 
that it does not accept mixed B&D waste, it may still be an option for very light 
loads of B&D waste (e.g. those comprised mainly of materials such as plastic 
and cardboard). Market participants have provided similar feedback about 
Suez’s facility at Rockdale. 
76. 
Based on the ACCC’s current information, the closest competing mixed B&D 
processor is Aussie Skips at Strathfield South. Market feedback indicates that 
the location of the Aussie Skips site may impact on its suitability for delivering 
waste collected from the CBD or Eastern Suburbs due to heavy traffic conditions 
at certain times on a typical business day. Further afield are Benedict at Belrose, 
MET Recycling at Silverwater and KLF Holdings at Camellia. There are 
significant increases in travel times to these facilities from the CBD or Eastern 
Suburbs compared to the time it takes to transport waste to either of Alexandria 
and Banksmeadow. There may be additional costs incurred such as tolls, and 
the indicative travel times also may not reflect the difficulties a truck driver may 
encounter, such as road weight limits, height restrictions and congestion.   
77. 
The ACCC is still considering the degree of constraint these facilities are likely to 
impose on Bingo post-acquisition. The ACCC notes that processors located 


Bingo – proposed acquisition of Dial-a-Dump 
 
Page 17 of 27 
further away will still impose a degree of constraint on Bingo, depending on how 
high the additional transport costs are, but may not impose a strong competitive 
constraint. 
Western Suburbs/Penrith areas 
78. 
In Western Sydney, Bingo and Dial-a-Dump are also likely to be close 
competitors. The Dial-a-Dump facility located at Eastern Creek is close to 
Bingo’s processing facilities at St Marys, Auburn, Silverwater and Bingo’s future 
site at Patons Lane. Market feedback suggests that Dial-a-Dump’s Eastern 
Creek facility is a significant facility due to its large processing capacity and 
location, with ease of access to the M7 highway. 
79. 
As seen in the map above, there are some alternative processors to Bingo and 
Dial-a-Dump in the area. These facilities include Brandown at Kemps Creek, Hi-
Quality Waste Management at St Marys and Kemps Creek, and KLF Holdings at 
Camellia. These alternate processors are likely to impose some constraint on 
Bingo in the Western Suburbs post-acquisition. Collectors may incur additional 
transportation costs and time to travel to these facilities depending on the area in 
which the waste is generated. However, the ACCC notes that travel times in this 
part of Sydney are likely to be less than in the Eastern Suburbs. The ACCC is 
still considering whether these alternative facilities are likely to constrain any 
attempted price increase by Bingo. 
Ability to impose exclusivity or minimum volume requirements 
80. 
The ACCC is also considering whether the proposed acquisition may increase 
Bingo’s ability to impose exclusivity or minimum volume conditions on its 
customers, for example requiring B&D collectors to exclusively use Bingo’s 
processing facilities. Bingo may be able to require B&D collectors who wish to 
use its processing facilities in areas where there are few alternative processors, 
such as the Eastern Suburbs, to also use its facilities in other areas of Sydney 
where there are alternative processors. This may have the effect of reducing 
volumes available to alternative processors, increasing their operating costs and 
reducing their ability to compete.  
81. 
Market inquiries have indicated that Bingo has already imposed, or attempted to 
impose, exclusivity or minimum volume requirements in certain cases. This 
conduct only raises possible concerns if B&D collectors have insufficient options 
available to them for processing and are therefore obliged to accept such terms. 
82. 
While Dial-a-Dump only has two processing facilities, the proposed acquisition 
may still remove an important alternative to Bingo’s network in areas where there 
are limited alternatives. 
Likelihood of entry or expansion 
83. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that barriers to entry or expansion are high, 
especially in the inner suburbs of Sydney, and the threat of new entry or 
expansion in these areas is unlikely to constrain a combined Bingo-Dial-a-Dump. 
84. 
There is likely to be limited suitable land available for new entry or expansion of 
existing facilities in the inner suburbs of Sydney. Even where land is available, 
the cost of purchasing or renting land is likely to be prohibitive in the inner 
suburbs. Costs may still be considerable in locations further out from the city. 


Bingo – proposed acquisition of Dial-a-Dump 
 
Page 18 of 27 
85. 
The ACCC understands that to establish a new B&D processing facility with a 
processing or stockpiling capacity above 6,000tpa requires development 
approvals from the NSW Department of Planning & Environment and EPA 
licences. Market feedback indicates that these approvals can take 18 – 24 
months to obtain with no certainty that approval will be granted, and will often 
require reports from consultants which can cost between $100,000 and 
$500,000. The ACCC is aware of proposed regulatory reforms by the EPA in 
relation to management and use of materials recovered from construction waste6 
which may increase operational costs for some B&D processing facilities or 
require their redevelopment. 
86. 
Market feedback suggests that the costs of equipment to sort mixed waste and 
recycle materials are also relatively high. Automated sorting equipment can cost 
$2 - $10 million. Recycling equipment, for example bricks/concrete crushers and 
timber chippers, may cost around $2 million each.  
87. 
The ACCC also considers that the threat of entry or expansion by existing C&I 
and light B&D waste processors into processing of mixed and/or heavy B&D 
waste is unlikely to significantly constrain Bingo. A C&I processing facility would 
need to invest in specialised equipment to sort mixed or heavy B&D waste. Due 
to the bulky nature of some types of B&D waste, a facility would also require 
sufficient space allocated to consolidate materials for recycling, which may mean 
the facility would need to cease C&I processing if the facility does not have 
additional space to process both types of waste. For processors that also collect 
C&I waste, there may be insufficient incentive to do so.  
Countervailing power 
88. 
The ACCC considers that most B&D collectors are unlikely to be able to 
commence their own sorting or recycling operations in response to an exercise 
of market power by a combined Bingo-Dial-a-Dump due to the costs and time 
involved in establishing a new facility even outside of inner city suburbs. Even 
where a collector establishes its own processing facility, it may still be reliant 
upon Bingo’s processing facilities in other geographic areas due to the issue of 
travel costs discussed above. 
ACCC’s preliminary view 
89. 
In summary, the ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition may be likely 
to substantially lessen competition in the market for the supply of B&D waste 
processing services in Sydney for the following reasons: 
• 
The proposed acquisition would remove an important alternative to Bingo’s 
processing facilities and its closest competitor, particularly in the Eastern 
Suburbs and Western Sydney. The ACCC is particularly concerned about 
the closeness of competition between Bingo’s processing facility at 
Banksmeadow and Dial-a-Dump’s facility at Alexandria. 
• 
The likelihood of new entry or expansion may not be sufficient to constrain 
Bingo, especially in the Eastern Suburbs of Sydney. 
                                                 
 
6https://www.epa.nsw.gov.au/your-environment/waste/industrial-waste/construction-
demolition/construction-and-demolition-waste  


Bingo – proposed acquisition of Dial-a-Dump 
 
Page 19 of 27 
90. 
The ACCC is also considering vertical integration issues, which may increase 
the level of concern in relation to processing. These issues are discussed in the 
last section of this Statement of Issues.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to the 
issues identified above. In particular, market participants may wish to comment on the 
following: 
• 
Which of the facilities identified on the map and in the table above are viable 
alternatives to Bingo and Dial-a-Dump for B&D waste collectors and why  
• 
Details of any additional processing facility that accepts B&D waste not identified 
above 
• 
The closeness of competition between Bingo and Dial-a-Dump in the Eastern 
Suburbs and Western Sydney. For example, have customers been able to obtain 
better rates due to the competition between these two facilities? 
• 
Examples of customers switching between Bingo, Dial-a-Dump and other B&D 
waste processors in response to an increase in processing prices 
• 
Transportation costs and time, and how those affect collectors’ ability to win 
customers and meet service level requirements 
• 
How far in distance and travel time collectors would transport waste to an 
alternative processing facility if Bingo increased prices by 10% 
Issue that may raise concerns: Landfills 
91. 
The ACCC's preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition may substantially 
lessen competition in the supply of landfill disposal services in Sydney by 
removing future competition between Dial-a-Dump's Eastern Creek landfill and 
Bingo's proposed Patons Lane landfill, leading to higher gate fees than would be 
likely in the future without the proposed acquisition. 
Market participants and shares 
92. 
Dial-a-Dump's Eastern Creek landfill in Western Sydney is one of the largest in 
Sydney. It has an estimated remaining useful life of approximately 15 years and 
a combined recycling and landfill capacity of up to 2 million tonnes per annum.7   
93. 
Bingo's proposed Patons Lane landfill, which is due to open in FY20, is located 
approximately 16km from Eastern Creek. It will have a total landfill capacity of 
4.3 million tonnes with a maximum operational life of approximately 25 years.8  
Although Patons Lane will be significantly smaller than Dial-a-Dump's Eastern 
Creek facility, the ACCC understands that it will be still one of the largest non-
putrescible landfills in Sydney in terms of remaining usable space. 
                                                 
 
7 Bingo ASX announcement, 21 August 2018. 
8 Bingo ASX announcement, 27 November 2017.  


Bingo – proposed acquisition of Dial-a-Dump 
 
Page 20 of 27 
94. 
The ACCC has considered the alternate landfills that would compete with Bingo 
if it acquired Dial-a-Dump's Eastern Creek landfill. If sufficient alternate landfill 
options are available, the proposed acquisition is not likely to enable Bingo to 
profitably increase landfill gate fees.  
95. 
The ACCC is aware of the following non-putrescible landfills in the Sydney 
metropolitan area. As explained in the market definition section above, the 
ACCC does not consider that putrescible landfills are significant competitors for 
non-putrescible waste due to their significantly higher gate fees. 
Table 2: Non-putrescible landfills in the Sydney metropolitan area  
Owner/operator 
Location (area) 
Dial-a-Dump 
Eastern Creek (West) 
Bingo 
Patons Lane (West) – Proposed new facility 
Suez 
Kemps Creek (West) 
Veolia 
Horsley Park (West) 
Cleanaway 
Erskine Park (West) 
Brandown 
Kemps Creek (West) 
Glenfield Waste Services 
Glenfield (West) 
Breen Holdings 
Kurnell (South) 
Blacktown Waste Services 
Marsden Park (West) 
Penrith Waste Services 
Mulgoa (West) 
Wanless Recycling  
Kemps Creek (West) 
Kimbriki Environmental 
Enterprises 
Terrey Hills (North) 
Greenwood Landfill & Waste 
Recovery Facility 
St Ives (North) 
 
96. 
However, the ACCC does not consider that all of these landfills are likely to be a 
significant constraint on Bingo post-acquisition. This is because the ACCC 
understands that: 
• 
several of the larger landfills are likely to reach capacity within the next few 
years, and 
• 
some of these landfills charge considerably more than Dial-a-Dump for 
B&D waste. 
97. 
When considering the nature of competition and relevant measures of market 
share in relation to landfills, a number of factors need to be taken into account: 
• 
Maximum annual capacity (which may be based on the operator's licence 
conditions) may differ significantly from actual annual throughput 
• 
Landfills with large annual capacity may have limited total remaining 
capacity, and therefore may only remain operational for a short period of 
time 


Bingo – proposed acquisition of Dial-a-Dump 
 
Page 21 of 27 
• 
Total remaining capacity may vary depending on decisions such as how 
much additional space is dug (some landfills have large areas potentially 
available but only a portion of this is dug at a time)  
• 
Some operators quote their remaining capacity in tonnes and some use 
cubic metres. The conversion rate from tonnes to cubic metres varies 
depending on the mix of waste accepted, and 
• 
Estimates as to the remaining lifespan of a landfill (in years) may vary 
significantly depending on the assumptions made as to how much residual 
waste will be accepted per annum. 
98. 
The ACCC's current view is that Bingo's market share of Sydney non-putrescible 
landfill post-acquisition (including Patons Lane) would be in the order of: 
•                between 15 and 25% of annual capacity; and 
•                around half of total remaining capacity. 
99. 
For the reasons set out above, these figures should be treated as a rough 
estimate only.  
Likelihood of entry/expansion 
100. The ACCC is aware of some proposals to expand competing landfills in Sydney. 
The most substantial one is Suez’s proposal to increase the height of its 
Elizabeth Drive (Kemps Creek) landfill by up to 15 metres, increasing its capacity 
by approximately 5 million cubic metres and extending the life of the landfill by 
approximately 6 years to 2030.9    
101. The ACCC is not aware of any proposals for new landfills within the Sydney 
metropolitan area. Development of a new landfill would likely be difficult, 
expensive and slow due to the need to obtain suitable land, development 
approvals and an EPA licence. 
102. Development of new landfills is more likely in parts of NSW outside Sydney. The 
issue of constraint from regional NSW landfills is discussed below. 
103. Due to the cost and difficulty of finding an appropriate site and obtaining all the 
necessary approvals, the ACCC considers that the threat of new landfills is 
unlikely to constrain Bingo from increasing landfill gate fees. 
Impact of Queensland levy 
104. Most market participants have acknowledged that Sydney's landfill capacity is 
limited. As noted above, some existing landfills have only a small amount of 
remaining usable space. Some competing landfill operators explained to the 
ACCC that they wish to make their landfills last for a number of years, either 
because they wish to maintain a revenue stream over that period, or because 
they need landfill capacity to support a related business. 
                                                 
 
9 https://www.suez.com.au/en-AU/news/elizabeth-drive-landfill-expansion-proposal  


Bingo – proposed acquisition of Dial-a-Dump 
 
Page 22 of 27 
105. Many Sydney landfill operators are currently putting only limited volumes into 
their landfills, as the NSW landfill levy means it is cheaper for them to transport 
their residual waste to Queensland. The Queensland government has estimated 
that approximately 900,000 tonnes of interstate waste was transported to 
Queensland in 2016-17.10 It is likely that a significant proportion of that came 
from NSW and Sydney in particular. 
106. However, the Queensland government has announced that it will introduce a 
landfill levy, proposed to commence in July next year. The levy will initially be set 
at $75 per tonne, which is significantly less than the NSW metropolitan levy of 
$141.20 per tonne.11 
107. The effect of the Queensland landfill levy on demand for Sydney landfill is 
uncertain. Some market participants consider that it will make sending residual 
B&D waste to Queensland too expensive, so demand for Sydney landfills will 
significantly increase. Bingo has indicated that one of the reasons for its 
acquisition of the Patons Lane site was so that it would have its own landfill in 
light of the anticipated regulatory change in Queensland.12   
108. It is also possible that the introduction of the Queensland levy will cause Sydney 
gate fees to rise and Queensland will remain the cheaper option for disposal of 
residual waste. Some Sydney landfill operators noted that if, following the 
introduction of the Queensland levy, volumes were to increase above the level 
they considered acceptable, they would increase their gate fees to reduce 
incoming volumes.   
109. If the introduction of the Queensland landfill levy significantly increases demand 
for Sydney landfill, then Bingo's ownership of both the Eastern Creek and Patons 
Lane landfills may enable it to set significantly higher gate fees than it would be 
able to if it only owned Patons Lane. Competing landfills, most of which are 
significantly smaller than a combined Bingo/Dial-a-Dump in terms of remaining 
capacity, may be more likely to follow any price increases by Bingo rather than 
undercut them. 
Regional and other interstate landfills as an alternative 
110. The ACCC is still considering the extent to which landfills in regional NSW, the 
ACT and Victoria are likely to be an alternative for the disposal of B&D waste 
generated in Sydney. 
111. The ACCC's preliminary view is that landfills in regional NSW may not be a 
significant constraint on Sydney landfill pricing. This is because there is 
effectively a penalty levy for dumping Sydney waste at regional NSW landfills. 
Although NSW imposes a lower levy on waste in regional areas, the levy is 
calculated based on where the waste is generated so (unlike transportation of 
residual waste to Queensland currently), the cost of transporting waste to 
regional NSW would not be offset by the avoided landfill levy.  
                                                 
 
10 https://www.qld.gov.au/environment/pollution/management/waste/recovery/strategy, p.6. 
11http://statements.qld.gov.au/Statement/2018/11/17/palaszczuk-government-announces-waste-levy-
funding  
12 Bingo ASX announcement, 27 November 2017. 


Bingo – proposed acquisition of Dial-a-Dump 
 
Page 23 of 27 
112. However, the ACCC acknowledges that if gate fees for landfills in regional NSW 
are significantly lower than gate fees in Sydney, this would at least partially offset 
the transportation cost. The analysis is similar for the ACT and Victoria, for which 
transport costs would be likely higher, but the landfill levies are lower or non-
existent.13 The ACCC will continue to consider this issue in the next stage of its 
review. 
Refuse-derived fuel as an alternative to landfill 
113. The ACCC also understands that certain non-recyclable waste types can be 
processed to produce material known as refuse-derived fuel (RDF) or process 
engineered fuel (PEF). The ACCC is considering how this could potentially 
constrain Bingo and other landfill operators in Sydney from raising prices post-
acquisition. 
114. Cleanaway and Resource Co have launched a joint venture at Wetherill Park in 
Sydney which will receive up to 250,000 tonnes per annum of C&I, residual 
recycling, and some B&D waste.14 The plant will convert non-recyclable waste 
into small solid material that is used to fuel kilns for cement manufacturing. The 
ACCC understands that Boral's cement kiln at Berrima is currently the only one 
in NSW that can accept PEF. PEF is also an internationally traded commodity 
and is currently being shipped to Malaysia for use in cement kilns there. 
115. The ACCC understands that the RDF industry in Australia is in its infancy and is 
likely to grow, but faces significant hurdles. Proposals for new waste to energy 
facilities are likely to be controversial (such as Dial-a-Dump's RDF proposal at 
Eastern Creek, which was refused planning consent).15 There is also a risk of 
countries such as Malaysia making policy changes which limit the amount of 
PEF they will accept.  
116. The ACCC's preliminary view is that the production of RDF is not likely to provide 
a significant constraint on Sydney landfill pricing in the short to medium term as 
the volumes are unlikely to be substantial. The ACCC also understands that 
there are limitations on the types of waste that are suitable for processing into 
fuel as the material must be of high calorific value. 
Preliminary views  
117. For the reasons set out above, the ACCC has preliminary concerns that the 
proposed acquisition may provide Bingo with market power in the supply of 
landfill services in Sydney, enabling it to charge higher gate fees than it could 
without the proposed acquisition.  
118. As landfill prices are a significant component of the costs faced by B&D waste 
processors, any reduction in competition at the landfill level may also reduce 
competition at the processing level. These vertical integration issues are 
discussed further below.  
                                                 
 
13 The ACT government is considering introducing a waste levy. See Disposal of residual waste in 
landfill. Although the majority of B&D waste can be recycled and resold, the waste that cannot be recycled 
must be disposed of in landfill. 
14 https://resourceco.com.au/wp-content/uploads/Media-Release-Australias-Largest-Waste-to-Fuel-Plant-
opens-in-NSW-Final.pdf  
15 http://wastemanagementreview.com.au/soldiering-next-generation-proposal/  


Bingo – proposed acquisition of Dial-a-Dump 
 
Page 24 of 27 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to the 
issues identified above. In particular market participants may wish to comment on the 
following: 
• 
If you are a B&D waste processor in Sydney, what do you consider are the 
alternatives to Bingo and Dial-a-Dump’s landfills? 
• 
What effect do you consider the Queensland landfill levy is going to have on 
Sydney landfill prices? Will B&D waste continue to be sent to Queensland, or will 
significant volumes return to the market? 
• 
Please identify any landfills in regional NSW that may be a viable alternative to 
Sydney landfills for B&D waste generated in Sydney 
Issue that may raise concerns: B&D waste collection 
119. The ACCC is assessing whether the proposed acquisition would be likely to 
substantially lessen competition in the market for the supply of B&D waste 
collection services in Sydney.  
120. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that Bingo and Dial-a-Dump are likely to be each 
other’s closest competitor for B&D waste collection contracts. Bingo and Dial-a-
Dump have the largest B&D collections fleets and a combined Bingo-Dial-a-
Dump would be considerably larger than its next closest competitor. 
121. Market feedback suggests that Bingo and Dial-a-Dump are two of only a small 
number of B&D collectors considered by large construction companies as having 
the fleet of trucks and bins able to meet their requirements.  
122. There is limited publicly available information on market shares. Some market 
participants have estimated that Bingo and Dial-a-Dump’s combined share of 
B&D waste collection volumes would be as high as 70%, although they did not 
provide evidence to support this. Bingo’s 2017 prospectus estimated that Bingo’s 
approximate market share at that time (prior to its acquisition of B&D collections 
competitor National Recycling Group/DATS in 2017) to be 24% of B&D waste 
collections revenue in NSW, with its share of the Greater Sydney market 
believed to be ‘significantly higher’ than this.16 
123. While Veolia is a major waste company and has some presence in B&D waste 
collection in Sydney, it does not appear to be a major competitor to Bingo and 
Dial-a-Dump. The ACCC understands that Suez and Cleanaway also do not 
have any significant B&D collections operations in Sydney. 
124. The ACCC understands that there is a large number of much smaller skip bin 
companies that would remain in the B&D collections market post-acquisition.  
However, a combined Bingo-Dial-a-Dump would have a fleet of trucks 
significantly larger than its next largest B&D waste collections competitor.  
                                                 
 
16  
Bingo 2017 Prospectus, p9: 
https://investors.bingoindustries.com.au/FormBuilder/_Resource/_module/FF6lBwhWykqL-
ozmpY1yYg/file/Bingo-Prospectus.pdf.  


Bingo – proposed acquisition of Dial-a-Dump 
 
Page 25 of 27 
125. On the other hand, information available to the ACCC shows that competing 
collectors are able to and have won a number of tenders from Bingo and Dial-a-
Dump in the past 24 months. This suggests that these competitors are currently 
providing a degree of competitive constraint.  
126. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the barriers to entry or expansion are not 
likely to be substantial if access to competitively-priced processing and landfill is 
available.  
127. The cost of individual trucks and skips are not prohibitive and are unlikely to be 
completely sunk as there is a market for second-hand vehicles and skips. The 
ACCC is aware of some existing B&D collectors expanding their fleets in order to 
compete for contracts with large construction companies. Further, there is 
potential for customers to disaggregate their collections contracts between a 
number of B&D collectors in order to promote competition.  
128. In addition, C&I collectors may also be able to enter or expand their B&D 
collections. However, as with other potential entrants, they would need to have 
access to B&D processing facilities, as C&I processing facilities are generally 
unlikely to be able to sort the bulky waste generated by B&D customers. 
129. The extent to which the threat of new entry or expansion may constrain a 
combined Bingo-Dial-a-Dump in collection depends on access to competitively-
priced processing and, to a lesser degree, competitively-priced landfill. These 
issues arising from vertical integration and how a lessening of competition in one 
part of the supply chain may impact on the level of competition in other parts of 
the supply chain, are considered in the next section of this SOI.  
ACCC’s preliminary views 
130. In summary, the ACCC has preliminary concerns in relation to horizontal 
aggregation of Bingo and Dial-a-Dump’s B&D collection businesses. These 
concerns would be reduced if the rival collectors or potential entrants could 
obtain competitively priced access to processing and landfill. At this stage, the 
ACCC is concerned that competitively-priced access to processing and landfill 
may not be available, because of the significant market position that a combined 
Bingo-Dial-a-Dump would have in both processing and landfill after the proposed 
acquisition.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to the 
issues identified above. In particular, market participants may wish to comment on the 
following: 
• 
The alternative B&D collectors capable of servicing large construction customers in 
Sydney 
• 
The ability of customers to sponsor the entry or expansion of other companies into 
B&D waste collection 
Issue that may raise concerns: Vertical integration 
131. Vertical integration, whereby businesses operating at different levels in a supply 
chain come together through a merger, can give rise to competition concerns in 
some circumstances. In particular, the ACCC may be concerned where rivals at 


Bingo – proposed acquisition of Dial-a-Dump 
 
Page 26 of 27 
one level of the supply chain are foreclosed from competing effectively, by a rival 
denying access at competitive prices to their services/products at another level 
of the supply chain.  
Vertical integration between collection and processing 
132. The ACCC considers that alternative suppliers of B&D collection services will 
require processing services (for the full range of B&D waste) at competitive rates 
in order to be able to compete effectively with a combined Bingo-Dial-a-Dump for 
collection contracts. Therefore, if there are limited alternatives to a combined 
Bingo-Dial-a-Dump at the processing level, the proposed acquisition may 
substantially lessen competition in the supply of B&D waste collection services 
due to this vertical integration.  
133. The combined Bingo-Dial-a-Dump might, for example, prevent rival collection 
companies from using its processing facilities, or may prevent them from using 
the facilities at a price that would allow them to compete for collection contracts.  
Alternatively, the combined Bingo-Dial-a-Dump could offer lower levels of service 
(e.g. restricted times for drop offs; or more restrictions on the mix of waste they 
will accept) that again would restrict the ability of those collection company rivals 
to compete. If a collection company is forced to drive further afield to find a 
processor other than Bingo-Dial-a-Dump, their costs will increase as their drivers 
will be able to undertake fewer jobs in a day, limiting their ability to be 
competitive in collections.  
134. Such a vertical integration concern would not arise if there are sufficient 
alternative processing options for rival collection companies. Therefore, the level 
of competition in processing, and the impact of the acquisition on the level of 
competition in processing, is important to the assessment of competitive impacts 
at the collections level of the supply chain. The ACCC will also consider whether 
Bingo would have the incentive to engage in such conduct. 
Vertical integration between processing and landfill 
135. Similar competition concerns may arise from vertical integration between 
processing and landfill. The ACCC considers that to be competitive in 
processing, most processing facilities require access to competitively priced 
landfill services. This is so that residual waste post-processing can be efficiently 
disposed. 
136. The ACCC will consider whether Bingo's incentives in operating landfills are 
likely to be different from Dial-a-Dump's. Given its substantially larger operations 
in B&D waste processing and collections, Bingo may have more incentive to 
favour its own operations (and provide less favourable terms to competing B&D 
waste processors) than Dial-a-Dump currently has.  
137. Such a vertical integration concern would not arise if there are sufficient 
alternative landfill options for rival processing companies. Therefore, the level of 
competition in landfill services, and the impact of the acquisition on the level of 
competition in landfill services, is important to the assessment of competitive 
impacts at the processing level of the supply chain. The ACCC will also consider 
whether Bingo would have the incentive to engage in such conduct. 


Bingo – proposed acquisition of Dial-a-Dump 
 
Page 27 of 27 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the issues arising from 
vertical integration. Many of the issues overlap with issues already raised in this SOI. 
In particular, market participants may wish to comment on the following: 
• 
Whether Bingo is likely to have different incentives in operating the Eastern Creek 
landfill than Dial-a-Dump currently has and what effect this may have 
• 
Whether it is likely that the combined Bingo-Dial-a-Dump will attempt to foreclose 
rival collection companies, by preventing access to processing facilities at a 
competitive price 
• 
Whether it is likely that the combined Bingo-Dial-a-Dump will attempt to foreclose 
rival processing companies, by preventing access to landfill facilities at a 
competitive price 
ACCC's future steps 
138. As noted above, the ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on 
each of the issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue 
that may be relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. Submissions are 
to be received by the ACCC no later than Thursday, 13 December 2018 and 
should be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au. 
139. The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
140. The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by Thursday, 21 February 
2019. However the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Informal 
Merger Review Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the 
purpose of explaining the ACCC's final view may be published following the 
ACCC's public announcement to explain its final view. 
