 
 
 
 
 
4 June 2008 
 
Statement of Issues — Woolworths Limited - proposed 
acquisition of the Karabar Supabarn supermarket 
1. 
Outlined below is the Statement of Issues released by the Australian Competition 
and Consumer Commission (ACCC) in relation to the proposed acquisition of 
the Karabar Supabarn supermarket and packaged takeaway liquor licence by 
Woolworths Limited (proposed acquisition). 
2. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well 
as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
3. 
In line with the ACCC’s Merger Review Process Guidelines (available on the 
ACCC’s website at www.accc.gov.au) the ACCC has established a secondary 
timeline for further consideration of the issues. The ACCC anticipates completing 
further market inquiries by 12 June 2008 and making a final decision on 
25 June 2008. However, the anticipated timeline can change in line with the 
Merger Review Process Guidelines. To keep abreast of possible changes in 
relation to timing and to find relevant documents, market participants should visit 
the Mergers Register on the ACCC's website at 
www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
4. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 
Background 
5. 
On 7 April 2008 the ACCC commenced its informal review of the proposed 
acquisition in response to Woolworths Limited’s request for an informal review. 


Woolworths Limited - proposed acquisition of Karabar Supabarn 
The parties 
The acquirer - Woolworths Limited 
6. 
Woolworths Limited (Woolworths) is an Australian and New Zealand retailer. 
Its operations include supermarkets, petrol, liquor, Big W general merchandise 
stores, and consumer electronics through Dick Smith, PowerHouse and Tandy. 
7. 
Woolworths is Australia’s largest grocery retailer. It operates approximately 
777 supermarkets across Australia. Woolworths is also the owner or joint owner 
of approximately 1058 liquor outlets. Woolworths currently owns two 
supermarkets near the target, one in the Queanbeyan CBD and one at 
Jerrabomberra. 
The target - Karabar Supabarn 
8. 
The Karabar Supabarn supermarket and packaged takeaway liquor licence (the 
Karabar supermarket) is an independent supermarket and retail liquor outlet 
owned by Forager Pty Ltd (Forager). The Karabar supermarket operates under 
the Supabarn brand via a licence agreement with the Supabarn Supermarket 
Group. It is located at the Karabar Shopping Centre in Karabar, a suburb about 
2km from the town centre of Queanbeyan, NSW. 
9. 
The Karabar supermarket is approximately 1250 sqm. The ACCC’s inquiries 
indicate that its range is considerably smaller than that of a full-line1 
supermarket, and that it does not currently provide a strong competitive constraint 
on the major supermarkets in Queanbeyan and Jerrabomberra. 
The proposed acquisition 
10. 
Woolworths proposes to acquire the Karabar supermarket and packaged 
takeaway liquor licence from Forager. 
Other industry participants 
11. 
Supabarn Supermarket Group (the Supabarn Group) – The Supabarn Group is 
an independent group operating full-line supermarkets. It operates three 
supermarkets in the ACT (Civic, Wanniassa and Kaleen) and one in Sydney (Five 
Dock), with further supermarkets planned at Sutherland and Sans Souci.  The 
ACCC’s inquiries indicate that the Supabarn Group is regarded as offering a 
range of goods which is comparable in size but different in composition to those 
of Woolworths and Coles. The Supabarn Group is expanding its business and has 
expressed an interest in acquiring the Karabar supermarket (see With/Without 
test below at paragraph 17).  
                                                 
1  The ACCC’s inquiries indicate while some parties disagree on the precise definition of a full-line 
supermarket, it is generally considered to be a supermarket of at least 2500sqm with a full range of goods 
including packaged groceries, fresh meat, bakery and deli departments, fresh fruit and vegetables and 
frozen foods. Some market participants draw a distinction between basic full-line supermarkets at 
2500sqm, and larger, major full-line supermarkets of at least 3000sqm and up to 4500sqm. 
 
2


Woolworths Limited - proposed acquisition of Karabar Supabarn 
12. 
Coles Chain (Coles) – Coles is a division of Wesfarmers, an ASX listed 
company. Wesfarmers’ Coles division includes Australia's second largest 
supermarket business (Coles and Bi-Lo), operating over 740 stores. It also 
includes Coles Liquor (1st Choice Liquor Superstores, Liquorland, and Vintage 
Cellars) and the Coles Express fuel and convenience stores. Coles operates one 
supermarket in the Queanbeyan CBD with a co-located Liquorland liquor store. 
13. 
Aldi Stores (Aldi) – Aldi is a partnership which operates approximately 160 
grocery stores in New South Wales, ACT, Queensland and Victoria, including 
one in the Queanbeyan CBD. Aldi’s ACT and Victorian stores carry a range of 
liquor (its Queanbeyan store does not). Most of its products carry Aldi’s own 
brands, and it has a reputation for low prices and basic service, with customers 
paying for their bags and packing their own groceries. Its product range is much 
smaller than that of a full-line supermarket, with an emphasis on basic, regularly 
purchased items, as well as weekly general merchandise specials. 
14. 
Metcash Trading Limited (Metcash) – Metcash is Australia's largest independent 
grocery and liquor wholesaler and distributor. Through its IGA Distribution, 
Campbells Wholesale and Australian Liquor Marketers businesses, Metcash 
carries on the business of wholesaling and distributing groceries and liquor to 
independent grocery retailers. Metcash also provides marketing, promotional and 
expansion support to independent grocery retailers. Metcash supplies groceries to 
the Karabar supermarket and to the Supabarn Group. 
Market inquiries 
15. 
On 7 April 2008 the ACCC commenced market inquiries regarding the proposed 
acquisition. The ACCC has received information from a range of interested 
parties. 
16. 
The ACCC is now calling for further information from interested parties to assist 
with its investigation as set out below. 
Additional background 
With/without test 
17. 
In assessing a merger pursuant to section 50 of the Trade Practices Act 1974, the 
ACCC must consider the effects of the transaction by comparing the likely 
competitive environment post-merger if the transaction proceeds (the “with” 
position) to the likely competitive environment post-merger if the transaction 
does not proceed (the “without” position) to determine whether the acquisition is 
likely to substantially lessen competition in any relevant market.  
18. 
The information available to the ACCC suggests that in the absence of the 
proposed acquisition it is likely that the Karabar supermarket would be acquired 
by the Supabarn Group and be expanded and upgraded to a large format full-line 
supermarket. Accordingly, this forms the basis of the “without” position for the 
purposes of the ACCC’s competition assessment. 
 
3


Woolworths Limited - proposed acquisition of Karabar Supabarn 
19. 
The “with” position, whereby the Woolworths acquisition proceeds, also includes 
the likelihood that the supermarket would be expanded and upgraded to a large 
format full-line supermarket. 
Proposed Googong development and new roads 
20. 
The ACCC has taken into account a number of proposed residential and road 
developments which it considers are likely to have an impact on the catchment 
area of the Karabar supermarket and may also have an impact on the degree of 
competition and potential competition between supermarkets. 
21. 
There is a proposed residential development in the area of Googong located 
approximately 7km from the Karabar supermarket. As part of the Queanbeyan 
City Council’s Queanbeyan Residential and Economic Strategy 2031, it is 
proposed to build around 5500 new dwellings in Googong over 25 years. It is 
likely this development will be serviced by several retail areas, including one 
primary retail area containing a large format full-line supermarket. However, 
there are a number of planning and approval stages that need to be completed 
before the Googong development can go ahead and, while the ACCC considers 
that the development is likely to occur, it may be at least two years before 
construction begins and a further 5-10 years before Googong has its own large 
format full-line supermarket. 
22. 
To allow for the increased traffic flow created by the proposed Googong 
development, a number of new roads and upgrades to existing roads have been 
proposed. Information received by the ACCC suggests that it is likely that Old 
Cooma Road, which currently links Googong with the Karabar supermarket, will 
be upgraded and Edwin Land Parkway, which adjoins Tompsitt Drive in 
Jerrabomberra, will be extended to link eastern Jerrabomberra with Old Cooma 
Road, providing a shorter route for residents of Jerrabomberra to reach Karabar 
and a shorter route for residents of Queanbeyan and Googong to reach 
Jerrabomberra.  
23. 
While the timing of the proposed road developments is uncertain, the information 
available suggests that they are likely to take place prior to, or in conjunction 
with, the first development at Googong to cater for the increased traffic flow. The 
proposed road developments have been identified in a number of public 
documents as a priority before the Googong development commences. 
24. 
A consequence of the proposed road developments is that they are likely to 
increase the ease of travel, and reduce travel time, between Jerrabomberra and 
Karabar. The possible competition effects associated with this and the Googong 
development are discussed below from paragraph 51. 
Market definition 
Local retail supermarket market 
25. 
Consistent with previous matters, the ACCC has considered the proposed 
acquisition in the context of a local retail supermarket market. In previous matters 
 
4


Woolworths Limited - proposed acquisition of Karabar Supabarn 
the ACCC has generally considered the geographic scope of local supermarket 
markets to be within a 3-5km radius surrounding the supermarket to be acquired. 
However, in this matter there are a number of geographic factors that may 
influence the geographic definition of the relevant market2. These factors include 
the proposed residential and road developments outlined above and the 
geographic characteristics of the Jerrabomberra area including the location of 
dwellings and existing roads. 
26. 
These factors are discussed in more detail from paragraph 51. The ACCC seeks 
further information regarding these factors and their influence on geographic 
market definition. 
Market concentration 
27. 
Woolworths, Coles and Aldi each operate one supermarket in the Queanbeyan 
CBD, which is approximately 2km from the Karabar supermarket. There is a 
Woolworths supermarket located at Jerrabomberra, within a 3km radius from the 
Karabar supermarket. However, there is currently no direct route between the 
Jerrabomberra and Karabar supermarkets. By road, the distance between the 
supermarkets is approximately 5.1km on back streets or 6.4km on main roads, 
although the proposed Edwin Land Parkway extension referred to at paragraph 22 
above would shorten this distance.  
28. 
There are also two smaller independent supermarkets, New Planet Supermarket 
and Vista Minimart, located within 2km of the Karabar supermarket. The 
ACCC’s preliminary view is that these very small supermarkets do not impose a 
strong competitive constraint on the Karabar supermarket (or any other 
supermarket). 
29. 
Following the proposed acquisition, Woolworths would operate three 
supermarkets within a 3km radius.  
Procurement market 
30. 
Consistent with its consideration of previous supermarket acquisitions, the ACCC 
has also considered the acquisition in the context of a state wide market for the 
procurement of products sold in supermarkets by supermarket wholesalers 
(including vertically integrated supermarket chains who provide their own 
“wholesaling” services) from growers and suppliers of products sold in 
supermarkets.  
                                                 
2  “Market definition is not an exact physical exercise to identify a physical feature of the world; 
nor is it an enquiry after the nature of some form of essential existence. Rather, it is the recognition 
and use of an economic tool or instrumental concept related to market power, constraints on power 
and the competitive process which is best adapted to analyse the asserted anti-competitive conduct. 
… Thus, once one appreciates the integrated legal and economic notions involved in the concept of 
a market and its purposive role … one is unlikely to find utility in a debate about the precise 
physical metes and bounds of a market”: ACCC v Liquorland (Australia) Pty Ltd [2006] FCA 826 
per Allsop J at [429]-[430]. 
 
5


Woolworths Limited - proposed acquisition of Karabar Supabarn 
Wholesale market 
31. 
Consistent with its consideration of previous supermarket acquisitions, the ACCC 
has also considered the acquisition in the context of a state wide market for the 
wholesaling of products sold in supermarkets.  
Liquor markets 
32. 
The ACCC has also considered the proposed acquisition in the context of a 
number of relevant liquor markets. Similar to the supermarket markets outlined 
above, the ACCC has considered the effect of the proposed acquisition in the: 
• local market for the retail sale of packaged liquor for off-premises 
consumption; 
• state wide market for the procurement of packaged liquor for 
subsequent sale by retail liquor outlets for off-premises 
consumption; and 
• state wide market for the wholesale of packaged liquor for 
subsequent sale by retail liquor outlets for off-premises 
consumption. 
Statement of issues 
33. 
For the purposes of this Statement of Issues, the issues in this matter are divided 
into two categories, “issues of concern” and “issues unlikely to pose concerns”. 
Issues of concern 
A lessening of competition in the local retail supermarket market  
Overview 
34. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is likely to 
constitute a substantial lessening of competition in the relevant local supermarket 
market when compared with the likely situation without the acquisition. The 
factors considered in reaching this preliminary view are discussed below. The 
ACCC is seeking further information from interested parties regarding these 
issues before it forms a final view of the proposed acquisition. 
35. 
As outlined at paragraph 18 above, the ACCC considers that if the proposed 
acquisition does not proceed, it is likely that the Supabarn Group will acquire the 
Karabar supermarket and expand and upgrade it to a large format full-line 
supermarket. 
36. 
The ACCC must therefore consider whether the competitive environment if the 
proposed acquisition by Woolworths proceeds constitutes a substantial lessening 
of competition relative to the “without” position. In other words, the question is 
“would the market have a substantially higher level of competitive tension if the 
Supabarn Group acquired the Karabar supermarket than if Woolworths acquired 
 
6


Woolworths Limited - proposed acquisition of Karabar Supabarn 
it?”. A higher level of competitive tension may be manifested in a number of 
ways including more price competition, specials and promotions, an increase in 
quality, increased range and/or consumer choice, better service levels and other 
relevant factors.  
Competitive response to new entry 
37. 
Information available to the ACCC suggests that some supermarkets and 
supermarket chains respond to the entry of new full-line supermarkets (such as a 
Supabarn Group supermarket) in a number of ways, including by offering 
discounts and additional promotions in nearby supermarkets. Consumers benefit 
from this competitive response. The ACCC seeks further information regarding 
the forms and duration of the competitive response by supermarkets to the entry 
of new full-line competitors. 
Range 
38. 
Existing Supabarn Group supermarkets are large format full-line supermarkets. 
They offer a broad range of products that, in number, is similar to that offered by 
Woolworths or Coles. In terms of the composition of the range, a number of 
products offered at Supabarn Group supermarkets are different from those offered 
by either Woolworths or Coles; for example, Supabarn Group supermarkets are 
promoted as offering a greater range of locally produced products and specialty 
items. The ACCC’s inquiries indicate that the Supabarn Group seeks to compete 
strongly on range, and that the entry of a Supabarn Group supermarket to a local 
market which already has Coles, Woolworths and Aldi supermarkets would 
provide a greater product choice for consumers.  
39. 
The ACCC seeks further information regarding the difference in range between 
Supabarn Group supermarkets and other supermarkets, the degree to which a 
wider choice of products is a result of competition between supermarkets and 
whether this delivers significant competitive benefit.  
Price competition and promotions  
40. 
The Supabarn Group seeks to compete with other full-line supermarkets on 
everyday shelf pricing by offering prices which are similar to or lower than those 
of its competitors. The ACCC seeks further submissions on the extent of the 
Supabarn Group’s price competitiveness and its impact on the prices charged by 
competitors. 
41. 
The Supabarn Group also runs a number of weekly promotions offering 
consumers discounts on certain items, as do Woolworths, Coles and Aldi. The 
ACCC seeks further information regarding the promotions run by the Supabarn 
Group, the degree to which the Supabarn Group competes via promotions and the 
level of response by other supermarket operators. 
Fresh produce 
42. 
The Supabarn Group markets itself as providing high quality fresh produce and a 
different range of produce to Woolworths and Coles, and seeks to use this as a 
 
7


Woolworths Limited - proposed acquisition of Karabar Supabarn 
point of difference in competition with them. In addition, its procurement and 
supply arrangements for fresh items differ from those used by Coles and 
Woolworths. This may result in a differing ability to offer discounts and specials 
on fresh items such that the Supabarn Group is better able to discount certain 
products at certain times, while Woolworths and/or Coles are better able to offer 
discounts on other items at other times. The net result of having access to each of 
these supermarkets in a local market and having the ability to shop around for 
specials may be regarded by consumers as being a benefit arising from 
competition. 
43. 
The ACCC seeks further information on competition between the Supabarn 
Group, Woolworths, Coles and other retailers of fresh produce.  
Service levels 
44. 
The Supabarn Group appears to structure other aspects of its overall offer in an 
attempt to create a competitive point of difference when compared with other 
supermarkets. For example, the Supabarn Group markets itself as having higher 
service levels, such as by employing more staff in each store than its competitors 
meaning that staff are more readily available to customers and checkout queues 
are shorter.   
45. 
The ACCC seeks information regarding the ways in which Supabarn Group 
supermarkets differ from other supermarkets in terms of service and the degree to 
which such service delivers significant competitive benefits.   
Bundled liquor and supermarket offering 
46. 
While the ACCC’s preliminary view is that there is unlikely to be a substantial 
lessening of competition in the local market for the retail sale of packaged liquor 
for off-premises consumption (see the discussion from paragraph 66 below), the 
ACCC notes that existing Supabarn Group supermarkets in the ACT offer a full 
range of liquor for purchase adjacent to the supermarket. Adjacent liquor stores 
and supermarkets are also offered by Coles and Woolworths. Liquor and 
supermarket shopping trips may be complementary, and the Supabarn Group 
would be in a position to offer such a “bundled offer” in Karabar, which may 
increase the attractiveness of its supermarket offer to customers seeking a one-
stop-shop. 
47. 
The ACCC seeks further information and submissions on this issue, any other 
ways in which Supabarn Group supermarkets currently compete with other 
supermarkets, and the question of whether a Supabarn Group supermarket would 
provide greater competitive tension in the local retail supermarket market. 
Access to new sites 
48. 
The ACCC has also considered whether it is likely that a potential new entrant 
could gain access to other sites for a new supermarket in the relevant local 
market. Generally, if there are few barriers to new entry, a substantial lessening 
of competition may be unlikely. 
 
8


Woolworths Limited - proposed acquisition of Karabar Supabarn 
49. 
Market inquiries have identified some potential development sites in the 
Queanbeyan area. In particular, the Queanbeyan City Council is currently seeking 
expressions of interest from developers with possible proposals for the 
development of the car park off Rutledge Street near the Queanbeyan Leagues 
Club. It is possible that developers may suggest a retail development of this site. 
However, if a developer proposed to develop a supermarket on the site, there are 
a number of planning and approval stages that must be completed before it could 
be developed. Further, a supermarket operator would have to compete for the site 
with alternative retail proposals. In addition, if a new supermarket were 
developed on this site, there is no certainty that this would be a new entrant rather 
than another supermarket operated by an existing supermarket operator in the 
area. 
50. 
While there is potential for the development of a new supermarket in the 
Queanbeyan area, the ACCC considers this prospect to be highly uncertain. In its 
preliminary view, the ACCC considers access to suitable new sites to constitute a 
high barrier to entry. The ACCC seeks further information and submissions on 
this point before it forms a concluded view on the proposed acquisition. 
A lessening of competition between the Karabar supermarket and the Woolworths 
supermarket at Jerrabomberra 
51. 
When considering the competitive tension between the supermarkets located at 
Karabar and Jerrabomberra, the ACCC has considered a number of issues arising 
from road design, geographical factors and the proposed residential development 
at Googong.  
52. 
Firstly, the ACCC has considered the likely effect on competition of the proposed 
extension of Edwin Land Parkway that will link eastern Jerrabomberra to Old 
Cooma Road, approximately 1km south of Karabar. This proposed extension is 
likely to increase the ease of travel, and reduce travel time, between 
Jerrabomberra and Karabar when compared with the current situation, described 
above at paragraph 27.  
53. 
Secondly, the ACCC has considered the effect on competition of the level of road 
access between the Woolworths supermarket at Jerrabomberra and the 
supermarkets in the Queanbeyan CBD. Currently, the closest full-line 
supermarket to the Jerrabomberra supermarket is located in the Queanbeyan 
CBD, where Woolworths, Coles and Aldi each have supermarkets. The 
Jerrabomberra supermarket is located within a 4.5km radius from the 
Queanbeyan CBD; however, there are a number of barriers that prevent direct 
access between Jerrabomberra and Queanbeyan. By road, the distance between 
the Jerrabomberra supermarket and the Queanbeyan CBD is approximately 
5.5km on back streets or 6.5km on main roads.  
54. 
In addition, a large proportion of the dwellings in Jerrabomberra are located to 
the south and east of Jerrabomberra which means that travelling distance to the 
Karabar supermarket and Queanbeyan CBD for those residents is significantly 
increased. The ACCC considers that these factors currently limit the possibility 
 
9


Woolworths Limited - proposed acquisition of Karabar Supabarn 
and degree of substitution between the supermarket at Jerrabomberra and the 
supermarkets in the Queanbeyan CBD. 
55. 
However, the extension of Edwin Land Parkway is likely to improve access to the 
Karabar supermarket, particularly for those residents located in the south and east 
of Jerrabomberra and consequently increase the ease of substitution, and 
therefore the potential for competition, between the Jerrabomberra supermarket 
and the Karabar supermarket. 
56. 
Thirdly, the ACCC has considered the effect on competition of the proposed 
residential development at Googong. Until a large format full-line supermarket is 
developed in Googong, the two closest large format full-line supermarkets to 
Googong will be those located at Karabar and Jerrabomberra. Due to the 
proposed extension of the Edwin Land Parkway it is likely that a large proportion 
of the traffic from the Googong area will flow through Jerrabomberra, although 
the exact amount will depend on whether (and when) a second proposed road 
servicing Googong to the west, Dunns Creek Arterial, is built. Traffic using the 
Edwin Land Parkway will pass approximately 1km from the Karabar 
supermarket. 
57. 
The ACCC considers it likely that these new road and residential developments, 
when combined with the entry of a full size Supabarn Group supermarket at 
Karabar, will lead to an increase in competitive tension between the Karabar 
supermarket and the supermarket at Jerrabomberra. Residents of Karabar and 
Jerrabomberra would no longer need to travel to the Queanbeyan CBD to access 
a second full-line supermarket, and the Karabar supermarket would provide the 
closest full-line supermarket for Googong residents during the 5-10 year wait for 
development of Googong’s first full-line supermarket. In comparison, if both the 
Jerrabomberra and Karabar supermarkets were owned by Woolworths, there 
would be no incentive for competition between them. 
58. 
The ACCC seeks further information regarding the effect on supermarket 
competition of the proposed residential development at Googong and the 
proposed road upgrades, particularly the extension of Edwin Land Parkway. 
Issues unlikely to pose concerns 
Procurement market 
59. 
The ACCC has conducted a preliminary assessment to determine whether the 
proposed acquisition will lessen competition in the market for the procurement of 
products for sale in supermarkets. 
60. 
Supermarket chains compete with each other and with independent supermarket 
wholesalers to acquire products from growers and other producers for subsequent 
retail sale. The proposed acquisition will lead to a small increase in the volume of 
supermarket products acquired by Woolworths, and a similar decrease in the 
amount acquired by its competitor Metcash, which supplies products to the 
Supabarn Group. 
 
10


Woolworths Limited - proposed acquisition of Karabar Supabarn 
61. 
However, given the size of the transaction relative to the players in the 
procurement market, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed 
acquisition is unlikely to result in a substantial lessening of competition for the 
procurement of products sold in supermarkets. 
Wholesale market 
62. 
The ACCC has conducted a preliminary assessment to determine whether the 
proposed acquisition will lessen competition in the wholesale market for goods 
sold in supermarkets. 
63. 
The proposed acquisition would reduce the wholesale volume of Metcash by the 
amount that it would otherwise have supplied to the Karabar supermarket under 
the “without” position. 
64. 
While this reduced volume may have an incremental impact on Metcash, 
reducing the volume of sales over which it is able to spread its cost, it is likely 
that the impact will not be large enough to materially raise its average cost nor to 
force Metcash to increase the prices it charges to its remaining customers (i.e. 
other independent supermarkets). 
65. 
Therefore, given the relatively small volume of goods supplied to the Karabar 
supermarket compared with Metcash’s NSW turnover, the ACCC considers any 
impact is unlikely to amount to a substantial lessening of competition in this 
market. 
Markets for the retail, procurement and wholesale of packaged liquor for off-premises 
consumption 
66. 
The ACCC has conducted a preliminary assessment to determine whether the 
proposed acquisition will lessen competition in these markets. 
67. 
There appear to be a relatively large number of competitors who will continue to 
impose a constraint on Woolworths if it acquires the Karabar liquor licence. 
Further, and in contrast to the situation with respect to supermarkets, in the 
ACCC’s preliminary assessment, the “with” and “without” scenarios (whereby 
Woolworths and the Supabarn Group would respectively operate the liquor store 
adjacent to the Karabar supermarket) are not substantially different.  
68. 
Accordingly, the ACCC has formed the preliminary view that no substantial 
lessening of competition is likely in the local market for the retail sale of 
packaged liquor for off-premises consumption, but will take into account any 
further submissions on this market before reaching its concluded view.  
69. 
However, as outlined above at paragraph 46, the ACCC is seeking further 
information on the extent to which the Supabarn Group liquor offering may 
increase the attractiveness of its supermarket to consumers, and thereby increase 
the competitive constraint the Supabarn Group may place on other supermarkets. 
70. 
The ACCC’s assessment of the likely impact of the proposed acquisition on the 
wholesale and procurement markets for packaged liquor mirrors its assessment 
 
11


Woolworths Limited - proposed acquisition of Karabar Supabarn 
for these markets in relation to supermarkets, as outlined at paragraphs 61 and 65. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that no substantial lessening of competition is 
likely in these markets. 
ACCC's future steps 
71. 
The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers market responses 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
72. 
The ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on each of the issues 
identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that may be relevant 
to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. 
73. 
Submissions are to be received by the ACCC no later than 12 June 2008. The 
ACCC will consider the submissions received from the market and the merger 
parties in light of the issues identified above and will, in conjunction with 
information and submissions already provided by the parties, come to a final 
view as to the appropriate course of action to take to resolve any competition 
concerns that remain. 
74. 
The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 25 June 2008. However 
the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Merger Review Process 
Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose of explaining the 
ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's public 
announcement. 
 
12
