 
 
Public Competition Assessment 
14 July 2011  
InvoCare Limited - proposed acquisition of Bledisloe Group 
Holdings Pty Ltd 
 
Introduction 
 
1. 
On  9 June 2011, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission 
(ACCC) announced its decision not to oppose the proposed acquisition of 
Bledisloe Group Holdings Pty Ltd (Bledisloe) by InvoCare Limited (InvoCare) 
(the proposed acquisition), subject to section 87B undertakings accepted by the 
ACCC on 8 June 2011.  The ACCC decided that the proposed acquisition, in 
conjunction with the undertakings, would be unlikely to have the effect of 
substantially lessening competition in any market in contravention of section 50 
of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the Act). 
2. 
The ACCC made its decision on the basis of the information provided by the 
merger parties and information arising from its market inquiries. This Public 
Competition Assessment outlines the basis on which the ACCC has reached its 
decision on the proposed acquisition, subject to confidentiality considerations. 
Public Competition Assessment 
 
3. 
To provide an enhanced level of transparency and procedural fairness in its 
decision making process, the ACCC issues a Public Competition Assessment for 
all transaction proposals where: 
 a merger is opposed; 
 a merger is subject to enforceable undertakings; 
 the merger parties seek such disclosure; or 
 a merger is not opposed but raises important issues that the ACCC considers 
should be made public. 
4. 
This Public Competition Assessment has been issued because InvoCare’s 
proposed acquisition of Bledisloe is subject to court enforceable undertakings.  
5. 
By issuing Public Competition Assessments, the ACCC aims to provide the 
public with a better understanding of the ACCC's analysis of various markets and 


 
-2- 
the associated merger and competition issues. It also alerts the public to 
circumstances where the ACCC’s assessment of the competition conditions in 
particular markets is changing, or likely to change.  
6. 
Each Public Competition Assessment is specific to the particular transaction 
under review by the ACCC. While some transaction proposals may involve the 
same or related markets, it should not be assumed that the analysis and decision 
outlined in one Public Competition Assessment will be conclusive of the ACCC’s 
view in respect of other transaction proposals, as each matter will be considered 
on its own merits.  
7. 
Public Competition Assessments outline the ACCC’s principal reasons for 
forming views on a proposed acquisition at the time the decision was made. As 
such Public Competition Assessments may not definitively identify and explain 
all issues that the ACCC considers arise from a proposed acquisition. Further, the 
ACCC’s decisions generally involve consideration of both non-confidential and 
confidential information provided by the merger parties and market participants. 
In order to maintain the confidentiality of particular information, Public 
Competition Assessments do not contain any confidential information or its 
sources. 
The parties 
InvoCare Limited 
8. 
InvoCare owns and operates funeral homes, cemeteries and crematoria in 
Australia and Singapore. It is the largest provider of funeral directing services 
and the largest operator of private cemeteries and crematoria in Australia with 
178 outlets providing funeral directing services and 12 cemeteries and crematoria 
nationally. InvoCare is one of Australia’s largest suppliers of pre-paid funeral 
plans.  
9. 
Table 1 provides a summary of InvoCare’s funeral directing brands, cemetery 
and crematoria operations in Australia. 
Table 1 – Summary of InvoCare’s operations in Australia 
State 
Funeral directing brands 
Cemetery and crematoria 
NSW 
White Lady Funerals 
Simplicity Funerals 
Economy Funerals 
Guardian Funerals 
W.N. Bull Funerals 
Ann Wilson Funerals 
Liberty Funerals 
Universal Chung Wah 
Funerals  
 
David Lloyd Funerals  
Kevin Geaghan Funerals
Twin Towns Funeral 
Service 
William Riley & Son 
Allen Drew Funerals  
Casino Funerals 
Byron District Funerals 
Bruce Maurer Funerals 
Rookwood Memorial Gardens 
and Crematorium 
Northern Suburbs Memorial 
Gardens & Crematorium 
Castlebrook Memorial Park 
Forest Lawn Memorial Park 
Pinegrove Memorial Park 
Tweed Heads Memorial 
Gardens 
Newcastle Memorial Park 
Lakeside Memorial Park 


 
-3- 
Lake Macquarie Memorial 
Park 
QLD 
White Lady Funerals 
Simplicity Funerals  
George Hartnett 
Funerals 
Value Funerals 
J & H Reed / O. 
Bottcher & Son  
Cannon & Cripps 
Funerals 
Drysdale Funerals 
Sommerville Funerals 
Albany Creek Memorial Park 
Mt Thompson Memorial 
Gardens  
Allambe Memorial Park  
VIC 
White Lady Funerals  
Simplicity Funerals 
Le Pine Funerals 
George Richardson 
Funerals  
Provinciale Servizio 
Funebre 
Nil 
SA 
White Lady Funerals 
Simplicity Funerals 
Blackwell Funerals  
Value Funerals 
Nil 
WA 
Simplicity Funerals 
Oakwood Funeral 
Homes 
Chipper Funerals 
Purslowe Funeral 
Homes 
Christian Funerals 
Mareena Purslowe & 
Associates 
Nil 
ACT 
Tobin Brothers Funerals 
Nil 
 
10. 
InvoCare has made a number of acquisitions of funeral directing businesses in the 
last six years including the acquisition of W.N Bull Funerals (NSW), Chipper Pty 
Ltd (WA), Liberty Funerals (NSW), Southern Cross Funerals (VIC) and Ann 
Wilson Funerals (NSW). 
Bledisloe Group Holdings Pty Ltd 
11. 
Bledisloe operates a funeral directing business in Australia and New Zealand, 
providing funeral directing services from 52 outlets across the two countries. It 
also owns and operates three cemeteries and crematoria in Queensland. It also 
supplies pre-paid funeral plans to customers.  
12. 
Table 2 provides a summary of Bledisloe’s funeral directing brands, cemetery 
and crematoria operations in Australia. 
Table 2 – Summary of Bledisloe’s operations in Australia  
State 
Funeral directing brands 
Cemetery and crematoria 
NSW 
Gregory and Carr 
Boland Funerals 
Nil 
QLD 
Metropolitan 
Funerals 
Beaudesert Funerals
Hiram Philip 
Funerals 
Gatton Funerals 
City Funeral 
Services 
Mackay Funerals 
Sarina Funerals 
Great Southern Garden of 
Remembrance, Carbrook 
Great Northern Garden of 
Remembrance, Deception Bay 
Toowoomba Garden of 
Remembrance Cemetery 


 
-4- 
Serenity Funerals 
VIC 
WD Rose Funerals 
Joseph Allison 
Funerals 
Giannarelli 
Funerals 
Nil 
TAS 
Turnbull Family Funerals 
Nil 
 
The proposed transaction 
 
 
 
13. 
InvoCare proposed to acquire 100% of the shares in Bledisloe. 
Industry background 
 
 
Funeral directing services 
 
14. 
Funeral directors arrange funeral services on behalf of the family members and/or 
other associates of a deceased person. The services provided to a customer1 
typically include collecting the deceased body from the place of death, preparing 
the deceased, procuring a coffin, flowers and death certificate, organising funeral 
and death notices and arranging a burial or cremation.  
15. 
A funeral service may be purchased from a funeral director on an ‘as needs’ basis 
(typically by a family member shortly after the death of the deceased person) or 
through a pre-paid funeral plan (prior to death). Pre-paid funeral plans are 
commonly offered by third parties, such as Funeral Plan Management, but 
marketed and sold by funeral directors who act as an intermediary. Customers 
select a funeral plan and then pay up-front (or in instalments for up to three years) 
for the current price of a funeral, which is guaranteed to be ‘inflation proof’ and 
irrespective of rising prices.  InvoCare both markets and manages its own pre-
paid funerals which are subsequently conducted by InvoCare funeral directors. 
16. 
Customers may also take out funeral insurance which is offered by most large 
insurance companies. Market inquiries indicated that the acquisition of pre-paid 
funerals and funeral insurance is becoming increasingly popular.  
17. 
There are an estimated 900 or more funeral directing businesses operating in 
Australia. The funeral directing industry has traditionally been characterised by 
family-owned and operated businesses, however industry consolidation during 
the mid 1990s has seen the emergence of a number of multi-branded firms 
including InvoCare and Bledisloe. A number of other funeral directing businesses 
including John Allison/Monkhouse and David Walker also offer funeral services 
under multiple brands.  
18. 
Customers may not be aware of the common ownership of various funeral 
directing brands and when seeking competitive quotes for funeral services may 
often in fact be soliciting quotes from branches of the same company. This was 
                                                 
1 Throughout this document ‘customer’ refers to the commissioner of a funeral, typically the family or an 
associate of the deceased, or for a pre-paid funeral the customer may make arrangements for their own 
funeral service.   


 
-5- 
considered to be particularly likely in respect of InvoCare due to the high degree 
of recognition associated with the InvoCare brands such as Simplicity, White 
Lady and Guardian and the tendency for multiple InvoCare brands to operate 
within the same metropolitan areas.   
19. 
A number of state and territory governments have conducted inquiries into the 
funeral directing industry, which have aimed to address concerns in the industry 
including the perceived high cost of funerals, a lack of competitiveness in the 
industry and the need for increased regulation. The NSW and Victorian 
government inquiries in 2005-06 led to a number of recommendations principally 
aimed at increasing the transparency of funeral service pricing, for example 
through itemised billing.  
Cemetery and crematoria services 
 
20. 
In most states and territories in Australia, the ownership and operation of 
cemeteries, memorial parks and crematoria remains largely the responsibility of 
local or state government authorities. However there has been some privatisation 
of cemeteries and crematoria operations in New South Wales, Queensland, South 
Australia and Tasmania. A number of cemeteries and crematoria are also 
operated by churches or religious groups. 
21. 
The involvement of private enterprise in cemeteries and crematoria differs from 
state to state but local authorities typically remain the major operators of 
cemeteries (although InvoCare owns a significant cemetery in both north 
Brisbane and the Gold Coast) with private enterprises having much more 
significant involvement in crematoria.  
22. 
The operation of a cemetery typically involves the supply of burial plots for 
deceased remains and related products and services such as crypts, monuments 
and plaques. An increasing number of cemeteries now also offer 
‘memorialisation services’ for cremated remains by the provision of ashes 
placements and/or cremation plots in memorial gardens. Burial, cremation and 
memorialisation services are typically arranged through the funeral director who 
acts as an intermediary between the commissioner and the cemetery or 
crematorium. Often a commissioner may indicate a preference for the location of 
the burial or cremation but in some cases the funeral director will recommend a 
cemetery or crematorium. The fees associated with burial and cremation are 
typically added as a disbursement to the funeral director’s invoice to the 
customer.  
23. 
Submissions from market participants suggested that 50% to 60% of deceased 
persons are cremated each year and that this rate has been increasing over time, in 
part due to a lack of burial space and the consequent premium cost of burials in 
major metropolitan areas.  
ACCC review timeline 
 
24. 
The following table outlines the timeline of key events in this matter. 


 
-6- 
Date 
Event 
 
19-Nov-2010 
 
ACCC commenced a review under the Merger Review Process 
Guidelines.  
30-Nov-2010 
 
ACCC requested further information from the merger parties. ACCC 
timeline suspended. 
09-Dec-2010 
 
ACCC received further information from the merger parties. ACCC 
timeline recommenced. 
10-Dec-2010 
 
Closing date for submissions from interested parties. 
20-Dec-2010 
 
ACCC requested further information from the merger parties. ACCC 
timeline suspended. 
04-Jan-2011 
 
ACCC received further information from the merger parties. ACCC 
timeline recommenced. 
19-Jan-2011 
 
ACCC published a Statement of Issues outlining preliminary competition 
concerns. 
04-Feb-2011 
 
Closing date for submissions relating to Statement of Issues. 
 
17-Feb-2011 
 
ACCC requested further information from the merger parties. Former 
proposed decision date of 3 March 2011 delayed. ACCC timeline 
suspended pending receipt. ACCC to announce a new proposed 
decision date upon receipt of further information from the parties. 
25-Mar-2011 
 
ACCC received further information from the merger parties. ACCC 
timeline recommenced. 
15-Apr-2011 
 
Former proposed decision date for announcement of ACCC's findings 
of 21 April 2011 suspended at the request of InvoCare to allow 
the merger parties to provide further information. 
03-Jun-2011 
 
ACCC received further information from InvoCare. ACCC timeline 
recommenced. 
08-Jun-2011 
 
Section 87B undertaking accepted by the ACCC. 
09-Jun-2011 
 
ACCC announced it would not oppose the proposed acquisition, 
subject to a section 87B undertaking accepted by the ACCC. 
 
Market inquiries 
 
25. 
The ACCC conducted market inquiries in relation to the proposed acquisition 
with a range of industry participants, including other suppliers of funeral 
directing services, cemeteries, crematoria and memorial parks, suppliers of 
essential inputs such as coffins and caskets, industry associations, consumer 
representative organisations and regulatory bodies. 
Statement of Issues 
 
26. 
The ACCC published its Statement of Issues on 19 January 2011 identifying a 
number of competition issues. In the Statement of Issues the ACCC identified the 
following areas as issues of concern and stated its preliminary view that the 
proposed acquisition would be likely to have the effect of a substantial lessening 
of competition in:   
 the supply of funeral directing services in North metropolitan Sydney;  


 
-7- 
 the supply of funeral directing services in North metropolitan Brisbane; 
 the supply of funeral directing services in South metropolitan Brisbane;  
 the supply of cremation services in North metropolitan Brisbane; and 
 the supply of cremation services in South metropolitan Brisbane. 
27. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view was that the proposed acquisition may also raise 
competition concerns in relation to:  
 the supply of funeral directing services in the Gold Coast; 
 the supply of funeral directing services in East metropolitan Sydney; 
 the increased ability and incentive of InvoCare to foreclose rival funeral 
directors access to crematoria in North and South metropolitan Brisbane; 
 the increased ability and incentive of InvoCare to foreclose rival cemeteries 
and crematoria in North and South metropolitan Brisbane; and 
 the increased ability and incentive of InvoCare to foreclose rival cemeteries 
and crematoria in North metropolitan Sydney. 
28. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view was that the proposed acquisition was unlikely to 
raise competition concerns in relation to  
 the supply of funeral directing services in the Melbourne metropolitan area;  
 the supply of funeral directing services in South and West metropolitan 
Sydney;  
 the supply of burial services in North and South metropolitan Brisbane;  
 vertical integration in the Sydney metropolitan area;  
 vertical integration in the Gold Coast metropolitan area;  
 the acquisition of coffins and caskets;  
 the acquisition of hearses.  
29. 
The Statement of Issues is available on the ACCC’s website at the following 
address: www.accc.gov.au/content/index.phtml/itemId/750995.   
With/without test 
 
30. 
In assessing a merger pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC must consider 
the effects of the transaction by comparing the likely competitive environment 
post-merger if the transaction proceeds (the “with” position) to the likely 
competitive environment if the transaction does not proceed (the “without” 
position). 
31. 
The ACCC considered that if the merger did not proceed, it was likely that 
Bledisloe would continue to operate as a separate, ongoing entity, and the ACCC 
accordingly assessed the matter on that basis.   


 
-8- 
Areas of overlap  
 
32. 
The operations of InvoCare and Bledisloe overlap in the supply of funeral 
directing services in the metropolitan areas of Brisbane, Gold Coast, Melbourne 
and Sydney. In Sydney, there is a significant overlap between InvoCare and 
Bledisloe’s funeral directing services in the North Shore and northern beaches of 
Sydney.  
33. 
In Brisbane, the operations of InvoCare and Bledisloe overlap in the supply of 
cremation services and burial services (including the memorialisation of cremated 
remains).     
34. 
The merger parties also overlap in the acquisition of coffins, caskets and hearses.  
 
Market definition 
 
35. 
The ACCC considered the impact of the proposed acquisition on a number of 
different markets as outlined in the following paragraphs.   
Funeral directing services 
 
Product/service dimension 
 
36. 
The operations of the parties overlap in the supply of funeral directing services to 
those people who commission funerals (typically the family of deceased persons). 
The services typically include collecting the deceased body from the place of 
death, preparing the deceased, procuring a coffin or casket, flowers, and death 
certificate, organising funeral and death notices and arranging a burial or 
cremation. From both a demand-side perspective and a supply-side perspective, 
the provision of funeral direction services is separate from the provision of the 
independent component services – e.g. advertising, flowers, organising notices 
and death certificates, cremation services and burial services. 
Geographic dimension 
 
37. 
The ACCC’s inquiries indicated that in most geographic regions considered in 
the context of the proposed acquisition, the relevant market should be defined 
more broadly than local, suburban areas, but not as broadly as an entire 
metropolitan area. The sub-metropolitan markets for the supply of funeral 
directing services identified by the ACCC reflect those proposed in the Statement 
of Issues and were defined according to the expected boundaries of effective 
competition, rather than a distance based geographic radius of competition.  
38. 
From a demand-side perspective, market inquiries emphasised the importance of 
local presence for a funeral director to attract customers from a local area. This 
was supported by information provided by market participants and the merger 
parties which indicated that commissioners typically select a funeral director 
located in proximity to the last residence of the deceased and/or their own 
residence (except where there is a family connection to a funeral directing 
business or a funeral directing business has an established reputation for serving a 
specific ethnic or religious group).  The typical practice of commissioners in 


 
-9- 
selecting a local funeral director may be due to convenience and a desire to 
minimise any search and travelling time (particularly in the stressful period 
following a bereavement) but may also be due to other reasons such as the 
customer’s greater awareness of local funeral directors and the localised nature of 
a funeral director’s reputation.   
39. 
The ACCC considered the extent of demand-side substitution between 
geographic regions within the conceptual framework of the hypothetical 
monopolist test (HMT)2.  While the ACCC noted that some funeral directors may 
be willing to travel across a metropolitan area to provide funeral services, it was 
nevertheless considered that a hypothetical monopolist within a sub-metropolitan 
area would be likely to be able to profitably impose a small but significant non-
transitory increase in price (a SSNIP).  That is, it was considered unlikely that, if 
faced with the application of a SSNIP to funeral directing services in a particular 
sub-metropolitan area (say North metropolitan Sydney), such a proportion of 
customers would switch to a funeral director located outside of that sub-
metropolitan area (e.g. to a funeral director in West metropolitan Sydney) so as to 
make it unprofitable for a hypothetical monopolist in North metropolitan Sydney 
to impose the SSNIP.    
40. 
The ACCC reached this view on the basis of the factors outlined in paragraph 38 
above, which indicated customers typically select locally based funeral directors. 
In particular, customers are not likely to have a good awareness of funeral 
directors outside their local area and are unlikely to seek to use geographically 
distant funeral directors given the short period available to a customer to choose a 
funeral director, the stressful nature of the situation, and the fact that customers 
may be unable to detect a price increase or an equivalent reduction in the quality 
of the service provided due to lack of price transparency (funeral prices are rarely 
advertised) and the infrequent nature of the purchase.   
41. 
In relation to supply-side substitutability, the ACCC considered the extent to 
which funeral directors in one sub-metropolitan area could quickly and without 
significant investment switch activities to supply funeral directing services in 
another sub-metropolitan area in response to a SSNIP in that area (using the 
framework of the HMT). The ACCC considered that given the importance of 
local reputation and customer loyalty (obtaining repeat business from the same 
family group) in establishing an effective business and the length of time 
necessary to build such a reputation and obtain the benefits of customer loyalty, a 
funeral directing business is unlikely to be able to quickly establish a business in 
a particular sub-metropolitan area without significant investment in response to a 
SSNIP or an equivalent reduction in service in that area.   
42. 
While the above analysis indicated that the funeral directing services markets are 
narrower than metropolitan wide, the ACCC did not consider the markets to be as 
narrow as local suburban specific markets. Funeral directors with premises in one 
                                                 
2 The HMT determines the smallest area in product and geographic space within which a hypothetical 
profit-maximising monopolist could effectively exercise market power. In general, the exercise of market 
power by the hypothetical monopolist is characterised by the imposition of a small but significant non-
transitory increase in price (SSNIP) above the price level that would prevail without the merger, 
assuming the terms of sale of all other products are held constant. A SSNIP in the context of the HMT 
usually consists of a price rise for the foreseeable future of at least 5 per cent. More information on the 
conceptual framework provided by the HMT is set out in paragraphs 4.19-4.22 of the ACCC Merger 
Guidelines (2008).  


 
-10- 
suburb are likely to benefit from a degree of name recognition in respect of the 
inhabitants of neighbouring or near-by suburbs which will enable them to provide 
an effective competitive constraint on the directors located in the immediate 
neighbouring suburbs. 
Summary 
43. 
On the basis of the above assessment, the ACCC considered that it was 
appropriate to identify the following markets for the supply of funeral directing 
services:  
 
North metropolitan Sydney;3  
 
East metropolitan Sydney, including eastern and central Sydney;4 
 
South metropolitan Sydney  and West metropolitan Sydney5; 
 
North metropolitan Brisbane6; 
 
South metropolitan Brisbane7; 
 
markets for the supply of funeral directing services in metropolitan 
Melbourne8; and 
 
a Gold Coast metropolitan market for the supply of funeral directing 
services9. 
Cremation services 
 
Product/service dimension 
 
44. 
The ACCC considered there to be separate product markets for the supply of 
cremation services and the supply of burial services.  
45. 
Market inquiries indicated that from a customer’s perspective, cremation and 
burial services would be unlikely to present a close substitute. Religious and 
cultural factors limit the ability of a number of customers to substitute cremation 
services with burial services for deceased family members. It also appeared that a 
small but significant increase in the price of cremation services would be unlikely 
to prompt customers to switch to acquiring burial services, given that burials are 
typically at least twice the cost of a cremation.  
                                                 
3 Including the inner and outer North Shore and Northern Beaches. This area is broadly defined by 
Sydney Harbour to the south, the Pacific Ocean to the east, Kuring-gai Chase National Park and the M2 
motorway to the north-west, and Lane Cove park to the west and south-west.  
4 This area is broadly defined by Sydney harbour to the north, the Pacific Ocean to the east, Botany Bay 
to the south and is likely to reach as far as Redfern to the west 
5 The specific boundaries of this market are not necessary to define as there are unlikely to be 
competition concerns in this area. 
6 North metropolitan Brisbane includes the area north of the Brisbane river and Brisbane CBD extending 
to Caboolture. 
7 Including the area south of the Brisbane river, extending south east to Beenleigh and south west to 
Ipswich; 
8 The exact boundaries of the sub-metropolitan markets within the Melbourne metropolitan area can also 
be left open as there is no particular region within Melbourne where the proposed acquisition would 
significantly increase concentration. 
9 Having regard to the relatively smaller geographic size of the Gold Coast metropolitan area the ACCC 
considered that there was a single metropolitan market for funeral directing services in the Gold Coast 
rather than sub-metropolitan markets. 


 
-11- 
46. 
From a supply-side perspective, the ACCC noted that it is not possible for a 
crematorium to supply burial services or a cemetery to supply cremation services 
without acquiring specialist equipment and/or land. In the case of a cemetery 
seeking to offer cremation, the cemetery operator would need to establish a 
crematorium which must meet environmental regulations and for which council 
approval is required. The time and costs associated with such development are 
such that the ACCC considered that burial services were not close supply-side 
substitutes for cremation services. 
Geographic dimension 
 
47. 
The ACCC considered there to be sub-metropolitan markets for the supply of 
cremation services. Similar to the position for the funeral directing services 
markets, the sub-metropolitan markets for the supply of cremation services 
identified by the ACCC reflect those proposed in the Statement of Issues and 
were defined according to the expected boundaries of effective competition, 
rather than a distance based geographic radius of competition. The sub-
metropolitan cremation service markets identified by the ACCC as relevant to the 
assessment of the proposed acquisition were North metropolitan Brisbane and 
South metropolitan Brisbane.  
48. 
While the ACCC notes that in the majority of cases, cremated remains are not 
interred on the site of the crematorium (and family members are therefore 
unlikely to revisit the site where the deceased was cremated), market inquiries 
indicated that most of a crematorium’s business was typically drawn from 
customers living in suburbs proximate to the crematorium. The ACCC expects 
that this is likely to reflect the commissioner’s concerns to minimise travelling 
time for members of the mourning community as well as their awareness of 
available crematoria – which is likely to be far greater in the case of local options.  
49. 
In this context, the ACCC had regard to the HMT, considering at a conceptual 
level whether it would be profitable for a hypothetical monopolist to implement a 
SSNIP in respect of the price of cremation services in one sub-metropolitan area 
(e.g. North metropolitan Brisbane), taking into account the possibility of 
customers ‘switching’ and using a crematorium in South metropolitan Brisbane 
as an alternative.  
50. 
A SSNIP on a cremation plus chapel service fee is likely to be less than $50, 
which represents a very small component of the average price of a funeral. 
Customers are unlikely to be able to detect such a price increase and even if such 
a price increase was detected, the ACCC considered that such an increase in the 
price of cremation services is unlikely to lead a commissioner to switch from a 
preference to use a crematorium in North metropolitan Brisbane to a crematorium 
in South metropolitan Brisbane, given the additional travelling time likely to be 
involved for the mourning community. 
51. 
On the basis of the above assessment, the ACCC considered that it was 
appropriate to identify the following markets for the supply of cremation 
services: 
 
the supply of cremation services in North metropolitan Brisbane; and  
 
the supply of cremation services in South metropolitan Brisbane.  


 
-12- 
 
Burial services  
52. 
The ACCC considered that the geographic dimension of the supply of burial 
services is sub-metropolitan wide, for the same reasons as the market for the 
supply of cremation services.  
53. 
On this approach, there is no overlap between the operations of the merger 
parties. InvoCare operates one cemetery in North metropolitan Brisbane and 
Bledisloe operates one cemetery in South metropolitan Brisbane. Post 
acquisition, there are a number of other cemeteries in both North and South 
metropolitan Brisbane. Accordingly, the ACCC has not considered the market for 
the supply of burial services any further.   
Acquisition of coffins and caskets on the east coast of Australia 
 
54. 
The ACCC considered the effect of the proposed acquisition on actual and 
potential suppliers of coffins and caskets to the merged firm’s operations on the 
east coast of Australia (where the merger parties’ respective funeral directing 
businesses overlap). Market feedback indicated that manufacturers on the east 
coast typically operated from a centralised manufacturing facility and could 
viably transport coffins and caskets to customers located anywhere on the eastern 
seaboard, however this may be aided by a distribution centre in each state or in 
closer proximity to customers. 
55. 
However, as competition concerns were unlikely to arise under a wider or 
narrower geographic market definition, the ACCC considered it unnecessary to 
reach a concluded view on the appropriate market definition for the supply of 
coffins and caskets.   
Acquisition of hearses on the east coast of Australia 
 
56. 
The ACCC’s view is that there is likely to be an east coast market for the 
acquisition of hearses. Market feedback indicated that manufacturers and 
suppliers of hearses on the east coast could viably supply customers in any state 
on the eastern seaboard from a centralised facility. However, the ACCC 
considered it unnecessary to reach a concluded view on the appropriate market 
definition for the supply of hearses as competition concerns are unlikely to arise 
under narrower or wider geographic markets.  
Competition analysis  
 
Horizontal analysis – funeral directing services markets 
 
57. 
The ACCC considered that the proposed acquisition would have the effect, or 
would be likely to have the effect, of substantially lessening competition in the 
following markets for funeral directing services: 
 
North metropolitan Sydney; and  
 
South metropolitan Brisbane. 
 


 
-13- 
58. 
In each of these markets, the proposed acquisition would increase market 
concentration with the merged firm having a substantial share of the market 
(determined by reference to the number of cases served by the merged firm’s 
outlets in that area).  Remaining competitors in these areas appeared unlikely to 
provide an effective competitive constraint on the merged firm and, as discussed 
in paragraph 62-65, the barriers to entry and expansion are high. Accordingly, 
post acquisition, InvoCare would be able to increase the effective price paid for a 
funeral service and/or reduce the service standards in those areas.  
59. 
The ACCC considered that in the absence of the undertaking, post-acquisition, 
InvoCare would likely be able to significantly and sustainably increase the 
effective price of funeral direction services in the markets identified in paragraph 
57. While InvoCare and Bledisloe both operate metropolitan-wide price lists for 
each brand, both parties offer discounts from list prices at the branch level and 
the ACCC considered that post acquisition InvoCare would be able to reduce the 
frequency and size of the discounts offered in North metropolitan Sydney and 
South metropolitan Brisbane.  Further, the ACCC notes that certain InvoCare 
brands are only available in particular local areas, namely Ann Wilson Funerals 
and Bruce Maurer Funerals, both of which only have branches in North 
metropolitan Sydney.  This means that InvoCare would be able to increase the list 
prices for the services provided by these brands without regard to the competitive 
constraint provided in the other sub-metropolitan areas by the funeral businesses 
operating in those areas.  
60. 
The ACCC also considered that post acquisition the merged firm would not be 
constrained from reducing the level of service provided to customers in the 
identified areas.  A reduction in service standards would most likely be 
manifested by a reduction in staffing levels, reducing the time and the level of 
attention spent on customers.  
61. 
The reasons for the ACCC’s views in relation to each of the relevant funeral 
directing services markets (including those markets identified in paragraph 43) 
are outlined below.  
Barriers to entry and expansion in the supply of funeral directing services 
62. 
The ACCC considered that while the capital costs associated with new entry or 
expansion by an existing funeral directing business were not necessarily high 
(particularly if the existing funeral directing business sought to expand via the 
establishment of a small local office, referred to as a ‘shop front’), the time 
required to build a local reputation and obtain the benefits of customer loyalty 
created a significant barrier to entry and expansion.  
63. 
Information provided by market participants indicated that in order to develop a 
competitive funeral directing business it is necessary to establish a strong 
reputation and loyal customer base. The ACCC found that new entrants typically 
performed a small number of funerals in their first five years after commencing 
operation while the business builds customer relationships, a reputation in the 
local areas, and in some instances, expands capacity. This conclusion was equally 
applicable to both new funeral directors and existing funeral directors attempting 
to enter a new geographic area.  


 
-14- 
64. 
While there were some examples of a new entrant achieving significant funeral 
volumes within their first one or two years of operation, these were generally 
limited to funeral directors who had already established a reputation while 
working for a previous employer in an area, or participants that occupy a unique 
position (such as a funeral directing business operated by a cemetery or local 
church). The ACCC noted there are very few examples of organic expansion in 
funeral directing services markets and found no examples of new entry or 
expansion on a significant scale in the funeral directing service markets identified 
as raising concerns.   
65. 
The ACCC therefore considered that the threat of entry in the supply of funeral 
directing services in North metropolitan Sydney and South metropolitan Brisbane 
was unlikely to be sufficiently timely or likely to provide an effective competitive 
constraint on the merged firm post acquisition. 
The supply of funeral directing services in North metropolitan Sydney 
 
66. 
The ACCC considered that in the absence of the undertaking the proposed 
acquisition would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of substantially 
lessening competition in the supply of funeral directing services in North 
metropolitan Sydney.  
67. 
InvoCare and Bledisloe are the largest and second largest providers of funeral 
directing services in North metropolitan Sydney respectively. Bledisloe’s 
Gregory & Carr branded funeral directing business has three outlets in North 
metropolitan Sydney while seven InvoCare funeral directing brands have outlets 
in North metropolitan Sydney:  
 
Ann Wilson (2 outlets);  
 
Simplicity (3 outlets);   
 
Bruce Maurer (1outlet);  
 
White Lady (5 outlets); and  
 
Guardian (2 outlets);   
 
WN Bull (1 outlet).   
 
Liberty (1 outlet);    
 
68. 
Market inquiries confirmed that brand recognition is an important aspect of 
competition in funeral directing services markets. InvoCare benefits from the 
high degree of brand recognition associated with its brands as well as from the 
extensive reach associated with operating from multiple branches across the area. 
Bledisloe’s Gregory & Carr branded funeral directing business also benefits from 
a high degree of brand recognition, particularly in North metropolitan Sydney.   
69. 
While many customers do not actively compare prices before choosing a funeral 
director, market inquiries indicated that a growing number of customers are 
seeking to compare prices of funeral services before selecting a funeral director. 
The ACCC is concerned that due to the high degree of brand recognition 
associated with the InvoCare brands, that those customers seeking competitive 
quotes may unknowingly solicit quotes from branches of the same company. The 
lack of transparency as to brand ownership may restrict the effectiveness of a 
customer’s search for genuine competitive quotes and the ACCC considered that 


 
-15- 
the acquisition of Gregory & Carr brand would exacerbate this concern in North 
metropolitan Sydney.  
70. 
In the absence of the undertaking, the ACCC considered that the remaining 
independent funeral directing businesses in North metropolitan Sydney were 
unlikely to provide an effective constraint on the merged firm.  
71. 
The merged firm’s case volume would be substantially higher than the next 
closest competitor and the ACCC considered it unlikely that these significantly 
smaller suppliers of funeral directing services (which do not benefit from the 
same degree of brand recognition) would be able to prevent the merged firm from 
increasing the effective price of funeral services and/or reducing the level of 
service provided in North metropolitan Sydney post acquisition.    
72. 
As set out above, the barriers to entry and expansion in the supply of funeral 
directing services are high and the ACCC considered that the threat of new entry 
into the supply of funeral directing services in North metropolitan Sydney (by 
either an existing funeral directing business located elsewhere in the metropolitan 
Sydney area or by the establishment of a new funeral directing business) was 
unlikely to constrain the merged firm post acquisition.     
The supply of funeral directing services in South metropolitan Brisbane 
 
73. 
The ACCC considered that in the absence of the undertaking, the proposed 
acquisition would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of substantially 
lessening competition in the supply of funeral directing services in South 
metropolitan Brisbane.  
74. 
InvoCare and Bledisloe are the largest and second largest providers of funeral 
directing services in South metropolitan Brisbane. Four InvoCare brands have 
outlets in South metropolitan Brisbane:  
 George Hartnett (3 outlets); 
 Simplicity (3 outlets); and   
 Reed Botcher (1 outlet);   
 White Lady (3 outlets). 
75. 
Bledisloe has a single brand across Brisbane - Metropolitan Funerals which has 
four outlets in South metropolitan Brisbane. 
76. 
The ACCC found that the InvoCare brands also benefit from a high degree of 
brand recognition in South metropolitan Brisbane and considered that the 
acquisition of Bledisloe’s Metropolitan Funerals brand raised competition 
concerns by further restricting the effectiveness of a customer’s search for 
genuine competitive quotes. The ACCC also considered that the threat of new 
entry is unlikely to constrain the merged firm from increasing the effective price 
of funeral services in South metropolitan Brisbane for similar reasons to those set 
out in paragraphs 62-65.   
77. 
However, the ACCC notes that there are a number of medium sized funeral 
directing businesses located in South metropolitan Brisbane and while these 
businesses do not individually account for a large number of funeral cases, 


 
-16- 
together they serve a significant proportion of funeral cases in this area. These 
businesses have the potential to become more effective competitors if behavioural 
impediments to effective competition (such as the opacity of brand ownership) 
are removed.  
Other funeral directing services markets  
 
78. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view, as expressed in the Statement of Issues, was that 
the proposed acquisition was also likely to have the effect of substantially 
lessening competition in the market for the supply of funeral directing services in 
North metropolitan Brisbane. Following the publication of the Statement of 
Issues, the ACCC made further market inquiries and considered the extent of the 
competitive constraint likely to be provided by independent funeral directors post 
acquisition.  
79. 
Independent funeral directors Traditional Funerals, KM Smith and Alex Gow 
each have significant operations in North metropolitan Brisbane, operating from 
multiple locations and each serve a significant proportion of the funeral cases in 
that area. Market inquiries also indicated that the brand names associated with 
these businesses are well recognised in the area. The ACCC considered that these 
businesses are likely to be an effective constraint on the merged firm post 
acquisition and that the proposed acquisition was accordingly unlikely to 
substantially lessen competition in this market.  
80. 
The ACCC also identified two other funeral directing services markets in the 
Statement of Issues where its preliminary view was that the proposed acquisition 
may raise competition concerns:  
 the supply of funeral directing services in the Gold Coast; 
 the supply of funeral directing services in East metropolitan Sydney; 
81. 
Market inquiries conducted following the publication of the Statement of Issues 
indicated that the proposed acquisition was unlikely to result in a substantial 
lessening of competition in the supply of funeral directing services in either of 
these markets. In the Gold Coast metropolitan area, Bledisloe’s funeral directing 
business was not considered to be a particularly strong competitor and there were 
a number of other effective competitors in this area.  In respect of East 
metropolitan Sydney, the ACCC concluded that the merged firm would be 
constrained by a number of independent funeral service providers, including the 
Eastern Suburbs Memorial Park (ESMP) which recently commenced offering 
funeral direction services from its cemetery and crematoria in Maroubra.   
Horizontal analysis – cremation services markets  
 
82. 
The ACCC considered that the proposed acquisition would have the effect, or 
would be likely to have the effect, of substantially lessening competition in the 
market for the supply of cremation services in North metropolitan Brisbane.  
83. 
The ACCC considered the proposed acquisition was unlikely to have the effect of 
substantially lessening competition in the supply of cremation services in South 
metropolitan Brisbane (the other cremation services market where the activities 


 
-17- 
of the merger parties overlap).  
84. 
The reasons for the ACCC’s views in relation to each relevant cremation services 
market are outlined below.  
Barriers to entry and expansion  
85. 
The ACCC considered the barriers to entry and expansion in the markets for 
cremation services in the Brisbane metropolitan area to be high. Significant 
capital investment is required to establish a crematorium and a lead time of up to 
3-5 years may be required in order to obtain local council approval for new 
crematorium developments.  
86. 
While the barriers to entry may be lower for existing cemetery operators which 
may be able to utilise existing land and infrastructure to establish cremation 
operations, the ACCC considered it was unlikely a new entrant or the threat of a 
new entry into the supply of cremation services (including by an existing 
cemetery operator) in a timely manner would provide an effective constraint on 
the existing providers of cremation services.  
The supply of cremation services in North metropolitan Brisbane 
87. 
The ACCC considered that in the absence of the undertakings, the proposed 
acquisition would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of substantially 
lessening competition in the supply of cremation services in North metropolitan 
Brisbane.  
88. 
The proposed acquisition would combine the two largest suppliers of cremation 
services in the region (Albany Creek Memorial Park operated by InvoCare and 
the Great Northern Garden of Remembrance operated by Bledisloe). Post 
acquisition, the only remaining providers would be the Brisbane City Council 
(BCC) crematorium at Pinnaroo and the Moreton Bay Regional Crematorium 
(owned by Traditional Funerals), both of which conduct significantly fewer 
cremations than the InvoCare and Bledisloe crematoria. 
89. 
Market inquiries indicated that the BCC crematorium at Pinnaroo is not 
considered an effective price competitor and the ACCC considered it would be 
unlikely to constrain the merged firm from increasing the price of cremation 
services in North metropolitan Brisbane post acquisition. The other provider of 
cremation services in North metropolitan Brisbane, Moreton Bay Regional 
Crematorium does not actively promote its facilities to independent funeral 
directors, with the majority of its operation being dedicated to the performance of 
cremation services for the Traditional Funerals funeral directing business.   
90. 
The ACCC notes market inquiries suggested that Nudgee Catholic Cemetery is 
expected to expand its cemetery operations to include the supply of cremation 
services. However, the timeframe for this development is not certain and the 
ACCC considered it was unlikely to provide effective competitive constraint on 
the merged firm in the foreseeable future.   


 
-18- 
The supply of cremation services in South metropolitan Brisbane 
91. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view was that the proposed acquisition was also likely 
to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in the market for the 
supply of cremation services in South metropolitan Brisbane. However, following 
the market inquiries carried out after the publication of the Statement of Issues, 
the ACCC concluded that the proposed acquisition was unlikely to substantially 
lessen competition in this market.   
92. 
While the proposed acquisition would combine the two largest suppliers of 
cremation services in the region (Mt Thompson Memorial Gardens operated by 
InvoCare and Great Southern Garden of Remembrance operated by Bledisloe), 
there would remain a number of alternative crematoria in South metropolitan 
Brisbane operated by four parties independent of the merged firm: Mt Gravatt 
Cemetery and Crematorium and Hemmant Cemetery and Crematorium (both 
operated by the BCC), Centenary Memorial Gardens, Heritage Park Crematorium 
at Goodna and Newhaven Crematorium in Stapylton. Each of these crematoria 
are available for use by independent funeral directors.  
93. 
Market inquiries indicated that Centenary Memorial Gardens and the crematoria 
operated by the Brisbane City Council were likely to be particularly effective 
competitors offering services at a comparable level to those available at the 
InvoCare and Bledisloe crematoria and having sufficient facilities to enable them 
to increase the number of cases served.  
Vertical analysis  
 
94. 
In addition to considering the competition concerns arising from the overlap in 
the merger parties’ activities in funeral directing services and cremation services, 
the ACCC considered whether additional concerns arose as a result of InvoCare 
being vertically integrated (supplying both funeral directing services and 
cremation and burial services).  
95. 
In light of InvoCare’s increased vertical integration as a result of the proposed 
acquisition, the following theories of harm were considered:  
(a) foreclosure of rival funeral directors – whether the merged firm would have 
the ability and incentive to foreclose rival funeral directors (e.g. by charging 
rival funeral directors higher prices to access crematoria or otherwise 
limiting access) with the likely effect of substantially lessening competition 
in relevant funeral directing services markets; and  
(b) foreclosure of rival suppliers of cremation services and burial services – 
whether the merged firm would have the ability and incentive to foreclose 
rival crematoria and cemeteries (e.g. by directing the merged firm’s funeral 
cases to the merged firm’s crematoria and cemeteries) with the likely effect 
of substantially lessening competition in relevant cremation or burial service 
markets.   
96. 
The undertaking includes a commitment by InvoCare to divest Bledisloe’s 
crematorium in North metropolitan Brisbane (the Great Northern Garden of 
Remembrance). As this addresses the ACCC’s concerns with the merged firm’s 


 
-19- 
market power in the supply of cremation services in North metropolitan Brisbane, 
it is not necessary for the ACCC to reach a view as to whether the merged firm 
would have had the ability and incentive to use this market power to foreclose 
rival funeral directors in North metropolitan Brisbane, and the competitive effect 
of any such foreclosure strategy (theory (a) above).   
97. 
The undertaking also includes commitments to address the ACCC’s concerns 
with the impact of the proposed acquisition on the supply of funeral directing 
services in North metropolitan Sydney and in South metropolitan Brisbane. As 
these commitments address the ACCC’s concerns with the merged firm’s market 
power in these markets, it is not necessary for the ACCC to decide whether the 
merged firm would have had the ability and incentive to use its market power to 
foreclose rival crematoria or cemeteries in North metropolitan Sydney and South 
metropolitan Brisbane, and the competitive effect of any such foreclosure 
strategy (theory (b) above).  
Other issues  
 
98. 
With respect to the following, which were identified in the Statement of Issues as 
markets where the ACCC considered that competition concerns were unlikely to 
arise, no information was provided during the course of the ACCC’s further 
inquiries that contradicted the ACCC’s preliminary views:  
 
the supply of funeral directing services in the Melbourne metropolitan area 
 
the supply of funeral directing services in South and West metropolitan 
Sydney;  
 
the supply of burial services in the Brisbane metropolitan area;  
 
vertical integration in the Sydney metropolitan area – foreclosure of rival 
funeral directors’ access to cremation services;  
 
vertical integration in the Gold Coast metropolitan area;  
 
the acquisition of coffins and caskets; and  
 
the acquisition of hearses. 
  
99. 
In respect of the above funeral directing services, cremation and burial services 
markets, the ACCC considered that there would remain a number of significant 
independent competitors post acquisition which would provide an effective 
constraint on the merged firm. In respect of the acquisition of coffins, caskets and 
hearses, the ACCC conducted market inquiries with a number of suppliers and 
purchasers and no significant competition concerns were raised in relation to the 
likely effect of the proposed acquisition on these markets.   
Undertaking 
100. On 8 June 2011, the ACCC accepted a court enforceable undertaking from 
InvoCare, pursuant to section 87B of the Act, to remedy the competition concerns 
identified by the ACCC. The undertaking provides for InvoCare to:  
 
divest three funeral directing outlets in North metropolitan Sydney and the 
Gregory & Carr brand name (the Sydney divestiture business) to the 


 
-20- 
ACCC approved purchaser Albert & Meyer Pty Ltd (a member of the 
David Walker group); 
 
 
divest Bledisloe’s Great Northern Garden of Remembrance crematorium in 
North metropolitan Brisbane (the Brisbane divestiture business) to an 
ACCC approved purchaser;  
 
 
use and implement an ‘ownership statement’ for five years. The obligations 
require InvoCare to clearly disclose in marketing and advertising in the 
Brisbane metropolitan area that a brand is an InvoCare owned brand. 
 
101. The first obligation, to divest the Sydney divestiture business, removes the 
competitive overlap between InvoCare and Bledisloe in the North metropolitan 
Sydney services funeral directing services market. 
102. The second obligation, to divest the Brisbane divestiture business, similarly 
removes the competitive overlap between InvoCare and Bledisloe in the North 
metropolitan Brisbane cremation services market.  
103. Should the sale of the Sydney and/or Brisbane divestiture businesses to an ACCC 
approved purchaser not complete within the required divestiture periods, the 
undertaking provides for the appointment of an independent divestiture agent 
approved by the ACCC to sell the businesses as quickly as possible. In addition, 
the undertaking requires InvoCare to appoint an ACCC approved independent 
manager to manage the Brisbane divestiture business until it is sold.  
104. This undertaking addresses the ACCC’s concerns that the proposed acquisition 
would have the effect, or likely effect, of substantially lessening competition in 
the supply of funeral directing services in North metropolitan Sydney and the 
supply of cremation services in North metropolitan Brisbane.  
105. The third obligation set out in paragraph 100 - the implementation of the 
‘ownership statement’, will facilitate transparency of ownership in funeral 
directing services across the Brisbane metropolitan area.  
106. While this remedy does not remove the competitive overlap between the parties 
in the South metropolitan Brisbane funeral services market, the ACCC 
considered that this obligation addresses the post merger competition concerns in 
this market.   
107. The implementation of the ‘ownership statement’ across the Brisbane 
metropolitan area will assist customers looking for competitive quotes of funeral 
prices, reducing the risk of customers unknowingly soliciting quotes from 
branches and brands operated by InvoCare. The ACCC considered that the 
increase in the transparency of funeral business ownership will assist effective 
competition in the Brisbane funeral directing service markets10, enabling 
                                                 
10 While the ACCC did not conclude that the proposed acquisition was likely to have the effect of 
substantially lessening competition in the supply of funeral directing services in North metropolitan 
Brisbane, InvoCare’s obligations to implement an ‘ownership statement’ apply across the Brisbane 
metropolitan area and, accordingly, will assist effective competition in North metropolitan Brisbane as 
well as South metropolitan Brisbane.   


 
-21- 
independent funeral directors to provide a more effective constraint on the 
merged firm.  
108. InvoCare also appointed an ACCC approved independent auditor to monitor and 
report on InvoCare’s compliance with its obligations under the undertaking until 
it ends. 
Conclusion 
109. On the basis of the above, including taking into account the section 87B 
undertaking, the ACCC formed the view that the proposed acquisition of 
Bledisloe by InvoCare would not be likely to result in a substantial lessening of 
competition in any market in contravention of section 50 of the Act. 
