 
Page 1 of 14 
 
Statement of Issues 
31 March 2017 
AGT – proposed acquisition of InterGrain  
Purpose 
1. 
Australian Grain Technologies Pty Ltd (AGT) proposes to acquire InterGrain Pty 
Ltd (InterGrain) (the proposed acquisition).  
2. 
This Statement of Issues: 
 
gives the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission’s (ACCC’s) 
preliminary views on competition issues arising from the proposed 
acquisition  
 
identifies areas of further inquiry 
 
invites interested parties to submit comments and information to assist the 
ACCC’s assessment of the issues. 
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views 
3. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is 
in section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits 
acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of 
substantially lessening competition in any market. 
4. 
The ACCC divides its preliminary views into three categories, 'issues of concern', 
'issues that may raise concerns' and ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’. In 
respect of this acquisition, the ACCC has identified one ‘issue that may raise 
concerns’ and one issue that is ‘unlikely to raise concerns’. 
Issue that may raise concerns: breeding, development and supply of barley  
5. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition may substantially 
lessen competition in relation to the breeding, development and supply of barley 
seed varieties for the Australian market. 
6. 
AGT and InterGrain operate the only two significant barley breeding programs in 
Australia. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the loss of competitive tension 
arising from the proposed acquisition may lead to less research and 


AGT – proposed acquisition of InterGrain 
 
Page 2 of 14 
development in barley, and/or higher end point royalties (EPRs) on barley 
varieties.1 
Issue unlikely to raise concerns: breeding, development and supply of wheat  
7. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to 
substantially lessen competition in relation to the breeding, development and 
supply of wheat seed varieties for the Australian market. It considers that, post-
acquisition, in the breeding, development and supply of wheat seed varieties 
AGT would continue to face sufficient competitive constraints from alternative 
wheat breeders and the threat of new entry. 
Making a submission 
8. 
The ACCC is seeking submissions from interested parties, particularly on the 
following key issues: 
 
the impact of the proposed acquisition on innovation in the breeding and 
development of new barley varieties in Australia 
 
the likelihood of entry and/or expansion in barley breeding and 
development in Australia 
 
the impact of the proposed acquisition on the level of EPRs for barley 
varieties, and 
 
the impact of the proposed acquisition on the breeding, development and 
supply of wheat. 
9. 
Detailed discussion of these and other issues, along with specific questions, is 
contained in this Statement of Issues.  
10. 
Interested parties should provide submissions by no later than 5pm on 19 April 
2017. Responses may be e-mailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: 
Submission re: AGT/InterGrain - attention Madeleine Houghton/Andrew 
Gallagher. If you would like to discuss the matter with ACCC officers over the 
telephone or in person, or have any questions about this Statement of Issues, 
please contact Madeleine Houghton on (02) 9230 3816, or Andrew Gallagher on 
(02) 9230 9129.  
11. 
The ACCC anticipates making a final decision on 25 May 2017; however, this 
timeline can change. To keep abreast of possible changes in relation to timing 
and to find relevant documents, interested parties should visit the Mergers 
Register on the ACCC's website at www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
Confidentiality of submissions 
12. 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. It will 
not disclose submissions to third parties (except to its advisors/consultants) 
unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation 
                                                 
 
1 EPRs are royalties collected by seed breeders from grain growers from the sale of grain produced using 
a particular seed variety – see paragraph [43] below. 


AGT – proposed acquisition of InterGrain 
 
Page 3 of 14 
or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition 
and Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where possible so that you may 
have an opportunity to be heard. Therefore, if the information provided to the 
ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate this as such. The ACCC’s 
Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on 
confidentiality. 
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’ 
13. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision in respect of 
a proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well 
as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
14. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 
Timeline 
Date 
Event 
10 January 2017 
ACCC commenced review of the proposed 
acquisition 
31 January 2017 
Closing date for submissions from interested parties  
6 March 2017 
ACCC requested further information from the parties. 
Former provisional date for announcement of findings 
(9 March 2017) delayed to 30 March 2017 to allow 
the parties time to provide the additional information 
29 March 2017 
ACCC waiting on information from vendor. Former 
provisional date for announcement of findings (30 
March 2017) delayed 
31 March 2017 
ACCC publication of Statement of Issues 
19 April 2017 
Deadline for submissions from interested parties in 
response to this Statement of Issues 
25 May 2017 
Anticipated date for ACCC final decision 
The parties 
AGT 
15. 
AGT is Australia’s largest wheat breeding company. It is a proprietary limited 
company that was established in 2002 by three shareholders – the Grains 


AGT – proposed acquisition of InterGrain 
 
Page 4 of 14 
Research and Development Corporation (GRDC), the South Australian 
Government and the University of Adelaide – following the corporatisation of 
previously publicly-run breeding programs. AGT is headquartered in South 
Australia and operates nationally, with breeding centres in Northam (Western 
Australia), Roseworthy (South Australia), Wagga Wagga (southern NSW) and 
Narrabri (northern NSW). 
16. 
AGT is currently owned by: 
 
GRDC (a Commonwealth statutory body) (39.11%) 
 
Vilmorin & Cie (Limagrain) (32.77%) 
 
South Australian Government (14.88%), and 
 
University of Adelaide (13.24%). 
17. 
Prior to 2002, grain breeding and development programs were generally run by 
state government bodies, which were corporatised as part of a push to 
encourage private sector investment in plant breeding. During that process, AGT 
acquired or licensed wheat breeding programs from: 
 
University of Adelaide 
 
Victorian Department of Primary Industries 
 
Sydney University (through AGT’s merger with SunPrime Seeds) 
 
NSW Department of Primary Industries, and 
 
Queensland Department of Primary Industries.  
18. 
AGT has breeding programs for all varieties of wheat (except for Udon noodle 
wheat), with 41 active wheat varieties. 
19. 
AGT is also active in lupins and barley, which, like wheat, are winter crops. 
Winter crops are annual crops sown in autumn and harvested in spring or 
summer.  
20. 
AGT’s barley breeding program commenced approximately three years ago. Its 
breeding program is supported by germplasm from its international shareholder 
and partner, the grower-owned French cooperative, Limagrain. Germplasm is 
genetic material that may be developed and maintained for the purposes of plant 
breeding, preservation, and other research uses. It has also recently been 
awarded commercial rights to part of the University of Adelaide’s breeding 
program, following the University’s decision in 2016 to exit barley breeding. The 
University is currently finalising licensing agreements granting exclusive access 
to its germplasm to several parties. AGT does not yet have any commercialised 
varieties of barley resulting from its own breeding program.  
InterGrain 
21. 
InterGrain was formed in 2007 when the Western Australian State Government 
and the GRDC privatised the Department of Agriculture’s and Food Western 


AGT – proposed acquisition of InterGrain 
 
Page 5 of 14 
Australia’s (DAFWA) wheat breeding program. It operates wheat and barley 
breeding facilities primarily in Western Australia, but also has a presence in 
South Australia and Victoria.  
22. 
InterGrain is owned by: 
 
the Western Australian Government (62%), and 
 
GRDC (38%). 
23. 
In 2010, Monsanto became a shareholder of InterGrain but in 2016 sold back its 
shares to GRDC and the Western Australian Government. During this period, 
Monsanto and InterGrain had an arrangement in place for a wheat germplasm 
exchange.  
24. 
InterGrain does not breed any winter crop species other than wheat and barley, 
with 30 active wheat varieties and 10 active barley varieties.  
25. 
InterGrain targets hard wheat regions in southern NSW, Victoria, South Australia 
and Western Australia, as well as producing Western Australia-based specialty 
Udon noodle wheat. 
26. 
InterGrain entered into barley breeding in 2009 through the transferral of the 
publicly run barley breeding program at DAFWA to InterGrain. InterGrain’s 
breeding program targets all the major cereal growing areas in Australia.  
27. 
InterGrain has also acquired barley germplasm from various other sources, 
including from other previously public breeding programmes in Australia. 
Industry background 
28. 
Grain breeding in Australia was generally formerly conducted through publicly 
funded state-based entities, typically through universities or through state-based 
agricultural departments. As a result, these entities typically specialised in 
breeding crops that were adapted to the climate and growing conditions of a 
particular state or region. 
29. 
Over the past two decades, the majority of these publicly funded breeding 
programs have been corporatised, and their germplasm sold or licensed to 
private entities, such as AGT and InterGrain. The ACCC understands that 
licences for germplasm are typically provided to licensees at little or no cost, but 
give the licensor the right to a percentage of the royalties that are generated as a 
result of the germplasm being used to bring a variety to the market. Due to the 
constantly evolving nature of breeding and developing seed varieties (discussed 
in further detail below), the value of germplasm diminishes over time, as 
germplasm continues to be improved.  
30. 
As described above, germplasm is the genetic material contained within a seed 
that may be developed and maintained for the purposes of plant breeding, 
preservation, and other research uses. 


AGT – proposed acquisition of InterGrain 
 
Page 6 of 14 
Breeding and development process 
31. 
Breeding and development of agricultural seed involves the identification, testing 
and stabilisation of new varieties of particular plants with germplasm that 
expresses particularly desirable traits. In wheat and barley, desirable traits can 
include yielding high volumes of grain, high quality grain, disease resistance and 
being adapted to grow in a range of Australian climates and growing conditions.  
32. 
Varieties with desirable traits are then stabilised through in-breeding, to ensure 
that future generations of the variety consistently express the same traits, before 
being commercialised.  
33. 
Breeders begin the process by undertaking research programs designed to 
enhance the natural characteristics of plants according to the local soil type, 
climate and locally prevalent diseases. After cross-breeding different varieties 
with each other, the parties submit that it takes four generations (about two 
years) for a new variety to stabilise and become a ‘fixed line’. This process can 
be sped up by using “doubled haploids” or “single seed descent” methods, which 
reduces the amount of time it takes between the initial cross-breed and the 
production of a fixed line, although with additional cost. Once the variety 
stabilises, the breeder can start testing it to determine whether the variety has 
the commercial characteristics that would make it commercially viable. This 
process takes an additional three to four years. 
34. 
The length of time it takes to bring a new variety to market is approximately ten 
years for wheat and twelve years for malting barley, as it takes a further two 
years for malting accreditation. Once a barley variety has malting accreditation, it 
is much more valuable than feed barley. These periods can be reduced by 
approximately two years if doubled haploids or single seed descent methods are 
used.  
35. 
The results of cross-breeding are essentially random and there is no guarantee 
of success. A cross-bred variety may express desirable traits of its parents, but it 
may also express undesirable traits or have no particular advantages as 
compared to its parent varieties. Therefore, the more cross-breeds a plant 
breeder is able to carry out and test, the higher its chances of producing a 
successful variety with particularly desirable traits. 
36. 
The chances of producing a successful wheat or barley variety are increased 
through the use of “elite” or “mature” germplasm which is adapted to growing in 
local environments. In the Australian context, the ACCC understands that “elite” 
germplasm refers to germplasm with desirable traits that is within the research 
and development pipeline, and is valuable for use in cross-breeding, and not 
available publicly: once a breeder has established a fixed line from cross-
breeding varieties (which takes about two years), the breeder begins the process 
of identifying promising varieties produced as a result of that cross-breeding. 
These can then be recycled back for future cross-breeding while simultaneously 
continuing to be developed for potential commercial release. This means that 
before a variety is released commercially, a breeding company is already likely 
to be using the variety as a parental line, and may have a head-start of several 
years on other breeding companies in the use of that material. Unlike in other 
jurisdictions, in Australia, the plant breeders’ rights system means that once a 
seed variety is placed on the market, the genetic material in the seed can be 
accessed by anyone (see below).  


AGT – proposed acquisition of InterGrain 
 
Page 7 of 14 
37. 
In practice, although not a mandatory process, all new seed varieties are tested 
by the National Variety Trial (NVT) program, which allows for comparative testing 
of varieties. Information is then provided to grain growers. Grain growers 
compare varieties and choose the appropriate variety accordingly.  
Commercial supply 
38. 
Seed breeders typically license the right to grow their seed to seed growers, who 
multiply the seeds for retail sale. Seed growers sell the seeds to grain growers 
(farmers), typically under licence, who then sell their produce to grain buyers for 
domestic processing or export. 
39. 
In Australia, unlike in other jurisdictions, a farmer-to-farmer traded seed sales 
system allows farmers to produce their own seed and to sell seed to other 
growers.  
Plant Breeders’ Rights 
40. 
Once a seed variety is ready to be commercialised, breeders apply for 
intellectual property protection, known as Plant Breeders Rights (PBRs), in the 
new varieties they are seeking to release. Breeders must register a variety under 
the Plant Breeder’s Rights Act (the PBR Act). This enables the breeder to collect 
EPRs on the registered seed variety (see below). 
41. 
The PBR Act grants particular rights to, and places certain obligations on, the 
holders of PBRs. Under the PBR Act, the grantee of a PBR in a plant variety 
must “take all reasonable steps to ensure reasonable public access to that plant 
variety” (section 19(1)). Once a new seed variety has been placed on the 
market, it is open to anyone to use the germplasm in that variety in the breeding 
of other varieties. 
End Point Royalties 
42. 
In Australia, EPRs are a mechanism by which seed breeders collect royalty 
payments from grain growers. The EPR system is used on a range of crops, 
including cereals (such as wheat and barley), pulses and brassicas, but not on 
major crops such as canola and cotton. The EPR for a particular seed variety is 
set by the owner of the PBR and is payable per tonne of grain produced using 
that variety. The amount of the EPR payable to the breeder is calculated at the 
point of sale, when a grain grower declares the variety of grain and the tonnage 
being sold. It is calculated only on the quantity of grain sold, and is not affected 
by the quality of the grain, or the price that the grower receives for the grain.   
Future with and without the acquisition  
43. 
Section 50 of the Act prohibits mergers or acquisitions that would have the effect 
or be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
In assessing a proposed acquisition pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC 
considers the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future competitive 
environment if the acquisition proceeds (the “with” position) to the likely future 
competitive environment if the acquisition does not proceed (the “without” 
position) to determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to substantially 
lessen competition in any relevant market. 


AGT – proposed acquisition of InterGrain 
 
Page 8 of 14 
44. 
InterGrain has been operating at a loss for several years according to its 
financial statements. The ACCC considers that likely possible alternatives 
include: 
 
continuing to operate under its current ownership structure 
 
being acquired by another party, or  
 
ceasing to operate and selling/licensing its breeding programs/germplasm.  
Market definition 
45. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the relevant markets for assessing the 
effects on competition of the proposed acquisition are national markets for: 
 
the breeding, development and supply of barley seed varieties, and 
 
the breeding, development and supply of wheat seed varieties. 
Product market  
46. 
The ACCC’s starting point for delineating the relevant markets in which to 
assess the competitive effects of the proposed acquisition involves identifying 
the products actually or potentially supplied by the parties. The ACCC then 
considers what other products constitute sufficiently close substitutes to provide 
a significant source of constraint on the combined AGT-InterGrain. 
47. 
The ACCC has considered whether the relevant breeding, development and 
supply markets form a broad single market encompassing various winter grain 
crops (including wheat, barley, and other winter crops), or whether wheat and 
barley constitute separate markets in themselves.  
48. 
The ACCC understands that the choice of crop that a grower sows is dependent 
on a number of different factors. These factors include: 
 
international prices and demand for a particular crop: the ACCC 
understands that over 80% of Australian wheat and barley is exported. 
Currently, wheat is the dominant winter crop in Australia and international 
demand for wheat is significantly higher than demand for other winter 
crops, such as barley or legumes 
 
the yield that a given crop will produce 
 
the cost of growing that crop. This is affected mainly by the crop protection 
products that must be applied to the crop, the cost of irrigation if relevant, 
the cost of fertilisers, the costs of physical and human capital, and the level 
of EPRs 
 
crops being grown on a rotation system: most farmers typically rotate crops 
between wheat, barley, canola and a legume crop. This allows for the 
proper nutrient levels, chemical resistance and pest and disease 
management. Accordingly, the crop that is grown depends on how 
rotations are being managed and what type of crop is due to be planted. 


AGT – proposed acquisition of InterGrain 
 
Page 9 of 14 
49. 
Since farmers are likely to grow different crops for different purposes or to meet 
specific needs, the various types of seeds do not appear to be substitutable. For 
the purposes of the ACCC’s assessment, whether or not barley and/or wheat are 
substitutes for other winter crops depends essentially on whether growers are 
likely to switch between them in response to a decrease in the relative quality (in 
terms of yield or pest and disease resistance) of available varieties, or an 
increase in the EPRs charged on those varieties. 
50. 
As outlined above, relative quality in terms of yield and cost in terms of EPR 
levels are among a number of factors that affect a farmer’s choice of crop. While 
important, they are not overriding factors in that choice, and may be outweighed 
by other considerations. Therefore, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that a 
breeder of either wheat or barley varieties is likely to have the ability to, for 
example, impose a sustained increase in the level of EPRs without being 
constrained by farmers switching to other crops. 
51. 
The ACCC has also considered supply-side substitution, that is, the ability of 
breeders of wheat, barley and/or other winter crops to switch between breeding 
programs. The ACCC understands that the technology, equipment and industry 
knowledge needed to run barley, wheat and other grain breeding programs may 
be similar. In addition, breeding companies are often active in the breeding and 
development of more than one crop. However, it appears that it is difficult to 
switch readily between breeding one type of crop and another. It appears that 
the requirements for an established breeder of a particular winter crop to switch 
its breeding program to a different winter crop is akin to the requirements a new 
entrant seeking to establish a breeding program would be subject to. In 
particular: 
 
key assets such as germplasm are not substitutable, and 
 
once breeding and development of a particular seed variety is 
commenced, it is not possible to switch to the breeding and development 
of another seed variety without significant investment in acquiring 
germplasm and long lead in times of at least three to five years to cross-
breed lines before a potentially successful variety can be identified for 
potential stabilisation.  
52. 
For the reasons outlined above, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that in order to 
consider the competitive effects of the proposed acquisition, it is appropriate to 
consider wheat and barley as distinct product markets. 
Geographic market 
53. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the markets for the breeding, development 
and supply of barley and wheat seed varieties are national. 
54. 
The ACCC recognises that the extent of substitutability between different barley 
seed varieties and different wheat seed varieties can depend on local 
geographical areas and their agronomic requirements. The ACCC is aware that 
some varieties of wheat and barley are capable of being grown across multiple 
regions, while others are more specialised for use in particular growing and 
climatic conditions.  


AGT – proposed acquisition of InterGrain 
 
Page 10 of 14 
55. 
However, in general, the ACCC considers that there is sufficient substitutability 
across different geographic regions for the breeding, development and supply of 
seed varieties to be considered a national market. Seed breeders appear able to 
breed seeds for any area in Australia; the skills, expertise and equipment for 
developing seeds suitable for growing in different areas are essentially the same. 
Most major breeders in Australia operate in more than one area. 
56. 
Although the ACCC considers that the relevant markets are national in scope, it 
is also considering whether the potential effects on competition of the proposed 
acquisition are amplified in any particular region. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary views as to 
the definition of the relevant markets.  
Issue that may raise concerns: breeding, development and 
supply of barley  
57. 
Based upon its inquiries to date, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the 
proposed acquisition may substantially lessen competition in relation to the 
breeding, development and supply of barley seed varieties for the Australian 
market.  
58. 
The proposed acquisition would result in the horizontal aggregation of the only 
two significant barley breeding programs in Australia. The ACCC is concerned 
that the loss of competitive tension may: 
 
decrease investment in research and development in barley, potentially 
leading to a reduction in the quality and breadth of barley varieties that 
would otherwise be available in the future, and/or potentially retarding the 
pace of development of new barley seed varieties, and/or 
 
allow the combined AGT-InterGrain to raise the levels of EPRs on its 
barley varieties. 
Competitive tension in research and development 
59. 
AGT and InterGrain are currently the only two significant barley seed breeding 
programs in Australia, following the decision by the University of Adelaide to exit 
barley breeding and license its breeding program. The ACCC understands that 
the University of Adelaide’s barley breeding program was significant and that it 
contributed to competitive tension in barley breeding. It also understands that the 
germplasm currently within the University of Adelaide’s research and 
development pipeline includes valuable ‘elite’ or advanced germplasm. As noted 
above, AGT has licenced a portion of the University of Adelaide’s germplasm, 
which has resulted in further concentration of barley breeding in Australia. 
60. 
The ACCC understands that while AGT’s barley breeding program has not yet 
produced a commercially available variety of barley on the market, it operates a 
significant barley research and development program and is testing a small 
number of direct introductions from Europe. Its barley breeding program is also 
supported by germplasm from its international shareholder and partner, the 
grower-owned French cooperative, Limagrain, which is the world’s largest 
commercial wheat breeder, second largest commercial barley breeder and fourth 


AGT – proposed acquisition of InterGrain 
 
Page 11 of 14 
largest seed company.2 While, the ACCC understands, it is likely to be a number 
of years before AGT has a significant commercial offering from its own barley 
breeding program, the licences it has recently obtained to the University of 
Adelaide’s barley breeding program are likely to result in it being in a position to 
commercialise barley varieties within a much shorter timeframe. InterGrain 
operates the largest barley breeding and development program in Australia. 
InterGrain’s size is attributable in part to its access to a number of previously 
publicly funded breeding programs, as described at paragraph 27 above. 
61. 
The ACCC understands that, at present, barley seed varieties are available that 
were originally bred and developed by various parties, including, in particular, the 
Victorian Department of Primary Industries and the University of Adelaide. 
However, the Victorian Department of Primary Industries is no longer involved in 
research and development, and, as already stated, the University of Adelaide 
recently announced that it will cease research and development this financial 
year.  
62. 
Therefore, although there are several alternative varieties currently available to 
growers, this is reflective of greater competition in the past, and does not reflect 
the current state of competition in research and development, or the likely future 
availability of new and better varieties.  
63. 
The ACCC is still considering the impact of the acquisition on the breeding, 
development and supply of barley seeds in Australia, but is concerned that the 
proposed acquisition would result in the loss of future competition between the 
only two significant barley breeding programs in Australia. The proposed 
acquisition might diminish the incentives for AGT and InterGrain to invest as 
much in research and development, in particular over the longer term, and to 
bring new seed varieties to market. 
Potential effect of the proposed acquisition on EPRs 
64. 
The ACCC is also considering the possible effects of the proposed acquisition on 
EPRs charged for barley seed varieties produced by a combined AGT-
InterGrain. As currently available varieties (including those for which no royalty is 
paid to breeders no longer involved in developing new varieties) are superseded, 
a combined AGT-InterGrain may be left as the only supplier of popular barley 
varieties. As a result, it may be able to increase the level of EPRs. 
65. 
The ACCC is continuing to explore whether the proposed acquisition would give 
AGT the ability to raise the level of EPRs post-acquisition, which would result in 
higher royalties to be paid by grain growers. In that regard, we note, in particular, 
that post-acquisition AGT may be constrained from increasing EPRs on its 
varieties because of the threat of non-compliance with the EPR system by grain 
growers. Market enquiries have indicated that because collection of EPRs relies 
largely on an honour system and correct declaration of the variety grown, it is 
open to growers to avoid declaring varieties that have high EPRs and to declare 
varieties that have low or no EPRs. 
                                                 
 
2 See: http://www.agtbreeding.com.au/news/agt-moves-into-barley-breeding.  


AGT – proposed acquisition of InterGrain 
 
Page 12 of 14 
Likelihood of new entry or expansion 
66. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the likelihood of timely new entry or 
expansion into barley breeding and development is low, and that the threat of 
new entry or expansion is unlikely to sufficiently constrain AGT post-acquisition.  
67. 
The ACCC’s market inquiries have identified one potential future new entrant. 
However, it is not clear that any new entry would be on a scale that would 
meaningfully constrain AGT post-acquisition. In addition, it seems unlikely that 
any new entry or expansion would be possible in a timely manner. Factors 
informing this assessment include: 
 
The advantage of access to “elite” or “mature” germplasm: that is, access 
to numerous and diverse lines of genetic material or germplasm, created 
through years of cross-breeding, which is adapted to growing in Australian 
environments (see above).  
 
The length of time it takes to bring a new seed variety to market, and the 
long period of investment before any costs may be recovered. The ACCC 
understands that the period of time between the initial breeding of a barley 
variety and bringing it to market is around 10 years (including the research 
and development phase, industry evaluation, regulatory approval, and 
application for plant breeder rights). As noted above, the ACCC 
understands that in order for barley to achieve accreditation as a malting 
variety (which allows it to attract a higher EPR) a further growing period 
over two seasons is required.  
 
The cost of establishing a barley breeding program, which the ACCC 
understands requires sunk costs of at least AUD 1 million and possibly up 
to AUD 5 million per year over the 10 plus year period, without any 
guarantee of success or of being able to recoup any of the costs.  
68. 
The ACCC is also considering the possibility of entry by overseas industry 
participants, including the possibility for overseas industry participants to directly 
import barley varieties into Australia. However, the ACCC’s preliminary view is 
that while this is possible in principle, and has been attempted, it is unlikely to 
achieve success which would meaningfully constrain AGT post-acquisition. 
Australian climatic and environmental conditions and disease profiles are unique 
as compared to other barley growing regions around the world. Accordingly, it is 
unlikely that international varieties of barley would have the necessary traits that 
would allow them to be successfully grown in Australia. The ACCC also 
understands that there can be difficulties and expense involved in importing seed 
into Australia due to quarantine restrictions.  
69. 
Overseas seed varieties are generally imported to breed particular traits into 
existing Australian varieties (such as higher yield or chemical resistance), and 
therefore an overseas entrant would need access to an existing Australian 
breeding program to successfully cross-breed imported varieties of barley with 
Australian varieties.  
70. 
The ACCC is also considering the effect the proposed acquisition may have on 
the likelihood of new entry. The ACCC’s market inquiries have raised the 
concern that because post-acquisition AGT would already have highly 
successful varieties of barley, developed from high quality germplasm, including 


AGT – proposed acquisition of InterGrain 
 
Page 13 of 14 
from previously public breeding programs, it would have a much higher chance 
of future success than other breeders. Market participants have suggested that 
since seed breeding and development is, to a large extent, a “numbers game”, 
the more genetic material a breeder has access to and the more cross-breeds it 
is able to perform, the higher the likelihood of success in producing a successful 
commercial variety.  
71. 
While the ACCC is aware of a potential new entrant in the relevant market, in the 
light of the barriers described above – in particular, the length of time it would 
take from establishment of a breeding program to releasing a variety to the 
market – the ACCC does not consider it likely that the potential new entrant will 
be in a position to meaningfully constrain the combined AGT-InterGrain in a 
timely manner.  
72. 
The ACCC is of the preliminary view that the likelihood of new entry in barley 
breeding by large overseas breeding companies, such as The Dow Chemical 
Company and Bayer, is low, in particular given the size of the market and the 
significant investment required to establish a breeding program. Barley is a 
relatively small market in Australia, with approximately nine million tonnes of 
barley produced per year (compared to approximately 25.4 million tonnes of 
wheat produced per year in Australia).3  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the potential effects of the 
proposed acquisition on the breeding, development and supply of barley seed varieties 
in Australia. In particular, market participants may wish to comment on: 
 
The impact of competitive tension in seed breeding and development. What are 
the important factors that contribute to the success of a breeding program (for 
example, total investment, number of breeding plots, staff etc.)? How are these 
factors likely to be affected if the proposed acquisition goes ahead? 
 
The factors that influence the level of EPRs on barley seed varieties. Does the 
level of an EPR affect the success of a variety? To what extent (if at all) is the level 
of EPRs which InterGrain currently collects on its barley varieties constrained by 
the level of EPRs collected on other popular varieties (that were developed by 
competitors which have since ceased breeding and development)? 
 
The lifespan of currently available barley varieties. If only a combined AGT-
InterGrain remains as a significant barley breeder in the future, how long until 
currently available varieties are likely to become obsolete? 
 
The likelihood of new entry in barley breeding in Australia, including by overseas 
breeding companies. 
 
The extent to which access, or lack of access, to “elite” or “advanced” germplasm 
developed for Australian conditions affects the likelihood of new entry or expansion 
in barley breeding in Australia. 
                                                 
 
3 Production forecast for 2016–17, 
http://data.daff.gov.au/data/warehouse/aucrpd9abcc003/aucrpd9abcc201606vVFkk/AustCropRrt2016061
5_v1.0.0.pdf.  


AGT – proposed acquisition of InterGrain 
 
Page 14 of 14 
Issue that is unlikely to raise concerns: breeding, development 
and supply of wheat 
73. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to give 
rise to significant competition concerns in the breeding, development and supply 
of wheat seed varieties. 
74. 
The ACCC recognises that AGT and InterGrain are close competitors in the 
breeding, development and supply of wheat varieties, particularly in Western 
Australia and South Australia and in medium and low rainfall zones. However, 
the ACCC considers that, post-acquisition, AGT would continue to be 
constrained by other major private wheat seed breeders, such as LongReach 
Plant Breeders (a joint venture between Advanta Seeds Pty Ltd and Syngenta 
Australia Pty Ltd), and by public programs, such as the program run by the NSW 
Department of Primary Industries.  
75. 
Furthermore, while the barriers to new entry or expansion into wheat seed 
breeding are generally similar to those described above for barley, the ACCC 
considers that the likelihood of new entry is greater than in relation to barley. 
This is due, in part, to the much larger size of the national wheat crop. There are 
recent examples of new entry by major multinationals, including The Dow 
Chemical Company and Bayer Australia Ltd. 
76. 
For these reasons, the ACCC considers that, post-acquisition, AGT would 
continue to face sufficient competitive constraints from alternative wheat 
breeders and the threat of new entry. 
77. 
The ACCC would welcome submissions on its preliminary view. 
ACCC's future steps 
78. 
As noted above, the ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on 
each of the issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue 
that may be relevant to the ACCC's assessment of the proposed acquisition. 
Submissions are to be received by the ACCC no later than 19 April 2017 and 
should be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au. 
79. 
The ACCC will finalise its view on the proposed acquisition after it considers 
submissions invited by this Statement of Issues. 
80. 
The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 25 May 2017. However, 
the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Informal Merger Review 
Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose of 
explaining the ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's public 
announcement to explain its final view. 
