 
Page 1 of 11 
 
Public Competition Assessment 
28 November 2013 
Westfield Group and Westfield Retail Trust - proposed 
acquisition of Karrinyup Shopping Centre 
Introduction 
1. On 5 September 2013, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission 
(ACCC) announced its decision not to oppose the proposed acquisition of 
Karrinyup Shopping Centre (Karrinyup) by Westfield Group (Westfield) and 
Westfield Retail Trust (WRT) (proposed acquisition), subject to a section 
87B undertaking (the undertaking) accepted by the ACCC on 4 September 
2013. The ACCC decided that the proposed acquisition, in conjunction with 
the undertaking, would be unlikely to have the effect of substantially lessening 
competition in any market in contravention of section 50 of the Competition 
and Consumer Act 2010 (the Act). 
2. The ACCC made its decision on the basis of the information provided by 
Westfield and WRT and information arising from its market inquiries. This 
Public Competition Assessment outlines the basis on which the ACCC 
reached its decision on the proposed acquisition, subject to confidentiality 
considerations. 
Public Competition Assessment 
3. To provide an enhanced level of transparency and procedural fairness in its 
decision making process, the ACCC issues a Public Competition Assessment 
for all transaction proposals where: 
 
a proposed acquisition is opposed; 
 
a proposed acquisition is subject to enforceable undertakings; 
 
the merger parties seek such disclosure; or 
 
a proposed acquisition is not opposed but raises important issues 
that the ACCC considers should be made public. 
4. This Public Competition Assessment has been issued because the ACCC’s 
decision not to oppose Westfield and WRT’s proposed acquisition of Karrinyup 
was subject to a court enforceable undertaking. 
5. By issuing Public Competition Assessments, the ACCC aims to provide the 
public with a better understanding of the ACCC's analysis of various markets 
and the associated merger and competition issues.  


 
Page 2 of 11 
 
6. Each Public Competition Assessment is specific to the particular transaction 
under review by the ACCC. While some transaction proposals may involve the 
same or related markets, it should not be assumed that the analysis and 
decision outlined in one Public Competition Assessment will be conclusive of 
the ACCC’s view in respect of other transaction proposals, as each matter will 
be considered on its own merits. 
7. Public Competition Assessments outline the ACCC’s principal reasons for 
forming views on a proposed acquisition at the time the decision was made. 
As such Public Competition Assessments may not definitively identify and 
explain all issues that the ACCC considers arise from a proposed acquisition. 
Further, the ACCC’s decisions generally involve consideration of both non-
confidential and confidential information provided by the merger parties and 
market participants. In order to maintain the confidentiality of particular 
information, Public Competition Assessments do not contain any confidential 
information or its sources. 
8. This Public Competition Assessment outlines the circumstances and 
assessment at the time of the ACCC decision. Events that have occurred post 
the ACCC decision that are relevant to this matter are clearly identified. 
The parties 
The acquirers: Westfield and WRT 
9. At the time of the ACCC’s review, Westfield and WRT, in the Perth 
metropolitan area, jointly owned:  
 Westfield Innaloo, the Innaloo MegaCentre and Innaloo Shoppers 
Village (co-located) (together, Innaloo) in north metropolitan Perth;  
 Westfield Carousel located in south metropolitan Perth;  
 a 50 per cent interest in Westfield Whitford City located in north 
metropolitan Perth; and  
 a one-third interest in Karrinyup, located in north metropolitan Perth 
(managed by a subsidiary of AMP Capital Investors (AMPCI)).   
Westfield 
10. Westfield develops, owns and manages shopping centres in Australia and also 
in New Zealand, the United States and the United Kingdom. Shopping centres 
in which Westfield and WRT have an ownership interest are typically managed 
by Westfield.  
WRT  
11. WRT is an A-Retail Estate Investment Trust (A-REIT) comprised of two 
stapled unit trusts operating as a single economic entity, listed on the 
Australian Stock Exchange (ASX). WRT was established in 2010 as a result of 
a de-merger with Westfield. WRT invests in shopping centres in Australia and 
New Zealand. The ownership interests held by WRT are in shopping centres 
in which Westfield also has an ownership interest and these are typically also 
managed by Westfield.  
12. The stapled unit trusts are managed investment schemes operating with 
responsible entities. The responsible entities of WRT are RE1 Limited, as 
responsible entity of Westfield Retail Trust 1, and RE2 Limited, as responsible 
entity of Westfield Retail Trust 2. Westfield Holdings Limited, a member of the 
separately ASX-listed Westfield Group, owns the responsible entities. 


 
Page 3 of 11 
 
13. The Board of WRT is currently comprised of eight directors, six of whom are 
independent directors. Of the remaining directors Mr Stephen Lowy and Mr 
Peter Allan are currently both executive directors of Westfield Group. That is, 
Westfield and WRT have two common directors. WRT engages Westfield 
under various contractual arrangements, including for corporate services and 
branding. 
The target: Karrinyup  
14. At the time of the ACCC decision, Karrinyup was owned by the KSC Trust, a 
registered investment scheme.  
15. The WestArt Trust (which through an interposed trust is owned by Westfield 
and WRT) was the owner of a one-third unit-holding in the KSC Trust. The 
remaining two-thirds unit holding in the KSC Trust was owned by UniSuper. 
The responsible entity of the KSC Trust is AMP Capital Funds Management 
Limited (AMP). AMPCI, another AMP entity, acts as the asset manager of the 
KSC Trust and in that role appointed AMP Shopping Centres Pty Ltd and 
Jones Lang LaSalle as the manager of Karrinyup.  
16. Karrinyup is located in north metropolitan Perth, approximately 3.3 kilometres 
north-west of Innaloo. Karrinyup is classified as a regional shopping centre in 
that it has at least one department store (Karrinyup in fact has both a David 
Jones and a Myer), a discount department store, supermarkets, a range of 
specialty stores and a gross lettable area of over 30,000 square metres and 
good parking.  
The proposed transaction 
17. WestArt Trust (Westfield/WRT) and UniSuper, as unitholders in the KSC Trust, 
agreed to enter into a buy/sell arrangement pursuant to which they were to bid 
against each other in an auction process in respect of the other units in the 
KSC Trust. The successful bidder, or its nominee, would acquire the other 
unitholder’s units in the KSC Trust. As explained in the Conclusion section 
below, subsequent to the ACCC’s decision, the outcome of the above 
described auction process resulted in the sale by Westfield and WRT of their 
interest in the KSC Trust to UniSuper. Therefore the proposed acquisition did 
not proceed.  
Review timeline 
18. On 15 August 2011, the ACCC commenced a public informal review of the 
proposed acquisition. At the request of Westfield and WRT, the ACCC's 
timeline for the review was suspended on 20 December 2011 to allow 
Westfield and WRT to make further submissions. In April 2012 Westfield and 
WRT commenced a sale process with respect to Innaloo to address ACCC 
competition concerns identified at the time and the ACCC's timeline remained 
suspended during that process.  
19. In July 2013, Westfield and WRT informed the ACCC of its intention to retain 
Innaloo. As outlined in the review timeline below, Westfield and WRT 
requested a new informal review of the proposed acquisition, which the ACCC 
commenced on 22 July 2013. In conducting its review, the ACCC had regard 
to the timing of the auction process between Westfield, WRT and UniSuper.  
20. The preliminary concerns identified in market inquiries would ordinarily have 
resulted in the release by the ACCC of a Statement of Issues and further 
consultation with interested parties. However, to provide the merger parties 


 
Page 4 of 11 
 
with a final decision before the auction process between Westfield, WRT and 
UniSuper, the ACCC considered the undertaking in parallel with its review of 
the proposed acquisition. Ultimately, as described above, the ACCC decided 
that the undertaking addressed the preliminary competition concerns identified 
in market inquiries.  
21. The following table outlines the timeline of key events in this matter. 
Date 
Event 
22-Jul-2013 
 
 
09-Aug-2013 
 
05-Sep-2013 
 
ACCC commenced a new review under the Merger Process 
Guidelines. 
 
Closing date for submissions from interested parties. 
 
ACCC announced it would not oppose the proposed acquisition, 
subject to section 87B undertaking accepted by the ACCC. 
Market inquiries 
22. The ACCC consulted widely with a range of industry participants, including 
competitors, retailers, industry bodies and other government organisations.  
Areas of concern 
23. The ACCC considered that, in the absence of the undertaking, the proposed 
acquisition may have had the effect, or may have been likely to have the 
effect, of substantially lessening competition in relation to: 
 
the supply of retail space in shopping centres (encompassing 
regional shopping centres and sub-regional shopping centres) to 
retailers in north-west metropolitan Perth; and 
 
the supply of shopping centre amenities to customers (shoppers) in 
north-west metropolitan Perth.   
24. As outlined further in the Market Definition section below, the ACCC 
considered that the relevant geographic market for assessing the impact of the 
proposed acquisition is the north-west metropolitan corridor of Perth, 
extending approximately 10 kilometres north of Karrinyup, 10 kilometres south 
of Karrinyup and bounded by the Indian Ocean to the west and the Mitchell 
Freeway to the east.  
Competition Test 
25. In assessing a merger pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC considers 
the effects of the merger by comparing the likely competitive environment 
post-merger if the merger proceeds (the “with” position) to the likely future 
competitive environment if the merger does not proceed (the “without” 
position).  
26. During its assessment of the proposed acquisition, the ACCC assessed the 
future competitive environment without the merger proceeding, in which case 
UniSuper, or its nominee, would successfully acquire Westfield and WRT’s 
interests in Karrinyup and therefore become the sole owner of Karrinyup. AMP 
would continue as the responsible entity of the KSC Trust and manager of 
Karrinyup.  
27. The ACCC also assessed the future competitive environment with the merger 
proceeding in the context of Westfield and WRT divesting Innaloo to an 
ACCC-approved purchaser.  


 
Page 5 of 11 
 
Industry Background  
28. Consumers’ shopping trips, and the products and services that they purchase 
during these trips, can be classified into several types. The types most 
relevant to the proposed acquisition are: convenience shopping, comparison 
shopping, multi-purpose and single-purpose shopping. These terms are 
explained below: 
 
convenience shopping – shoppers undertake convenience 
shopping when purchasing low priced items with little differentiation 
between retail outlets. Given transport and search costs, consumers 
generally do not shop around for such purchases but instead buy 
from the closest (most convenient) shop. Many purchases from 
newsagents and pharmacies are examples of convenience 
shopping;  
 
comparison shopping – consumers often undertake comparison 
shopping when they purchase differentiated products such as 
clothing and footwear. For such purchases, consumers may wish to 
compare the offerings of a number of retailers and therefore shop 
around before purchasing. This causes the consumer to incur 
search costs (including transport and time spent shopping around);  
 
multi-purpose shopping – consumers frequently engage in more 
than one type of shopping on a single trip in order to save time. For 
example, consumers may purchase a newspaper from the 
newsagent, buy their groceries and purchase a new pair of shoes in 
a single shopping trip; and  
 
single-purpose shopping – consumers are more likely to 
undertake single purpose shopping trips to retailers selling complex, 
relatively expensive goods – such as cars and electrical goods – 
that are purchased by consumers after engaging in complex 
decision making. Consumers are frequently willing to travel longer 
distances to such retailers to purchase a single item because travel 
costs are a relatively small part of the total cost of the item. 
Retailers selling these products derive fewer benefits from co-
locating with other retailers and generate limited externalities for 
other retailers.  
29. In contrast to unplanned shopping areas, such as shopping strips where retail 
space is owned by a number of owners, retail space in a planned shopping 
centre, such as Karrinyup, is owned by the same entity. The owner of a 
planned shopping centre determines the overall layout and composition of 
stores within the centre and is able to restrict the entry of stores, or particular 
types of stores, so as to maximise the overall profit that can be derived from 
the retail space. The amount of profit that can be earned will also depend on 
the strength of competition from other shopping centres and retail areas such 
as shopping strips. 
30. Shopping centre owners also make decisions about improvements in existing 
amenities, expansion of the centre and retail mix according to the likely impact 
of these changes on the total profit that can be extracted from the retail space. 
This will also depend partly on the strength of competition from other shopping 
centres and areas, and thus the likelihood that these investments will succeed 
in attracting additional shoppers and increasing sales for new and existing 
retail tenants.  


 
Page 6 of 11 
 
31. In the retail industry, shopping centres are classified in a hierarchy according 
to the retail mix (for example, whether or not a shopping centre includes a full 
line department store) the total gross lettable area, and the coverage of retail 
needs offered by a shopping centre. The types of shopping centres most 
relevant to the proposed acquisition are regional shopping centres and sub-
regional shopping centres.  
32. A regional shopping centre, such as Karrinyup, typically incorporates at least 
one full line department store, a full line discount department store, one or 
more supermarkets and approximately 100 specialty shops. The total gross 
lettable area in a regional shopping centre generally ranges between 30,000 
and 50,000 square metres. Regional shopping centres generally include 
extensive coverage of a broad range of retail needs, and provide a broad 
range of shopper facilities and amenities.1  
33. A sub-regional shopping centre, such as Innaloo, is a medium-sized shopping 
centre typically incorporating at least one full line discount department store, a 
major supermarket and approximately 40 specialty stores. The total gross 
lettable area of a sub-regional shopping centre generally ranges between 
10,000 and 30,000 square metres. Sub-regional shopping centres generally 
provide a broad range of retail needs and shopper facilities and amenities.2  
Competition analysis 
34. Based on information provided by Westfield and WRT, and on information 
arising from market inquiries, the ACCC considered that, in the absence of the 
undertaking, the proposed acquisition may have had the effect, or may have 
been likely to have the effect, of substantially lessening competition in relation 
to the market for supply of retail space in shopping centres to retailers in north-
west metropolitan Perth and/or the market for the supply of shopping centre 
amenities to customers (shoppers) in north-west metropolitan Perth. The 
below competition analysis outlines the basis on which the ACCC reached this 
view in respect of the proposed acquisition, subject to confidentiality 
considerations.  
The economics of shopping centres 
35. Shopping centres may be characterised as two-sided platforms that bring 
together two sets of customers – shoppers and retail tenants. As with other 
two-sided platforms, the value of the shopping centre for each set of 
customers depends on the number and quality of customers on the other side 
of the platform. The better the amenities and choice of shops in a shopping 
centre, the more attractive it will generally be to shoppers. On the other side, 
the greater the number of shoppers, or the higher the value of the shoppers (in 
terms of the amount spent on shopping) that a shopping centre attracts, the 
more attractive the centre is to actual and potential retail tenants and the more 
rent a shopping centre owner will be able to charge. 
36. In this regard, and in common with other two sided markets, the structure of 
prices differs on each side of the platform. Shopping centres generally do not 
charge shoppers but instead derive revenue from retail rents. Shopping 
centres compete to expand their base of shoppers by offering an attractive 
retail mix, better amenities, free car parking or longer opening hours. If a 
                                                 
1 Based on the Property Council of Australia Shopping Centre Directories definition of a 
 regional shopping centre.  
2 Based on the Property Council of Australia Shopping Centre Directories definition of a 
 sub-regional shopping centre. 


 
Page 7 of 11 
 
shopping centre succeeds in expanding its base of shoppers it will 
correspondingly be able to extract higher rents from retail tenants. 
37. The retail composition of a shopping centre is particularly important to attract 
shoppers.  Anchor tenants – often a department store or supermarket – 
generate considerable foot traffic for a shopping centre and thus indirectly 
increase sales by smaller, lesser known stores with less ‘pulling power’ than 
the anchor.  Both the number and identity of the anchor tenants, as well as the 
rent and other terms and conditions of the lease, will be important attributes of 
alternative retail sites to specialty retailers.   
38. Importantly, shopping centres compete with each other to attract new retail 
tenants and retain existing retail tenants when leases are due for renewal. 
Indeed, shopping centre owners and managers seek to attract certain types of 
retailers, even specific retailers, in accordance with strategic plans for 
optimising a shopping centre’s retail mix.   
39. Retailers catering to comparison shoppers that co-locate in a shopping area 
are typically more attractive to consumers than those retailers that do not co-
locate. The shopping centre will typically include a number of differentiated 
comparison retailers (for example stores offering different brands of clothing) 
making it more likely that the shopper will find a product that meets their 
needs. Stores relying on comparison shopping benefit particularly from so-
called agglomeration economies that arise when similar stores are located in 
close physical proximity within a shopping centre. This is because the 
increased foot traffic generally increases overall sales revenue, 
notwithstanding the direct competition from rival retailers. 
40. As outlined further in Market Definition below, the ACCC considered that for 
specialty retailers relying on comparison shopping, Karrinyup and Innaloo are 
the only two suitable alternative locations available in north-west metropolitan 
Perth. 
Market Definition  
41. In previous reviews of proposed acquisitions in the shopping centre industry, 
the ACCC has identified separate markets for regional and sub-regional 
shopping centres.  
42. However, the ACCC’s approach to market definition based on the factual 
circumstances relating to the proposed acquisition (namely, the geographic 
proximity of Karrinyup and Innaloo and Innaloo’s ability to successfully attract 
specialty retailers despite not benefiting from a full line department store), has 
resulted in Karrinyup, a regional shopping centre, and Innaloo, a sub-regional 
shopping centre, being included in the same relevant market.  
43. Innaloo is approximately 10 kilometres north-west of Perth’s CBD. The centre 
is anchored by Coles, Woolworths, Kmart and Target with over 150 specialty 
stores and over 2000 car spaces. Westfield completed a redevelopment of 
Innaloo in 2005, which introduced over 30 additional specialty stores, a Coles 
Supermarket and an extended fresh food section. In 2006, Westfield acquired 
an adjacent supermarket comprising approximately 9500 square metres of 
gross lettable area, providing opportunity for future expansion. 
44. Given the ACCC’s purposive approach to market definition, where different 
factual scenarios arise, this approach may not be applicable in future 
proposed acquisitions in the shopping centre industry.  


 
Page 8 of 11 
 
45. The ACCC considered that the following two markets were most relevant to 
the assessment of the competitive impact of the proposed acquisition:  
 
market one: the supply of retail space in shopping centres 
(encompassing regional shopping centres and sub-regional 
shopping centres) to retailers in north-west metropolitan Perth; and  
 
market two: the supply of shopping centre amenities to customers 
(shoppers) in north-west metropolitan Perth.  
Product Market  
Market one - the supply of retail space in shopping centres to retailers  
46. The ACCC formed the view that the extent to which different types of retail 
space would be a suitable alternative to retail space in Karrinyup for retailers 
depends on the number of people visiting the shopping area, the customer 
spend associated with the area, ease of access (connections to freeways and 
public transport), amenities such as parking as well as the type and range of 
other shops located in the centre. The presence of department stores and 
other anchor tenants in particular is influential on specialty retailers’ decision 
as to whether to locate in a particular centre. 
47. The ACCC also formed the view that the type of shopper a retailer is trying to 
attract will impact their retail requirements and the range of suitable alternative 
retail space available to them. For example, whether the retailer seeks to have 
a store serving each and every customer catchment area or whether the 
retailer is seeking to operate an independent store.  
48. Different types of shopping centres and retail space, such as neighbourhood 
shopping centres and retail strips, may be a suitable alternative for retailers of 
homogeneous and/or convenience goods such as newsagents and 
pharmacies so long as the traffic generated at those areas is of comparable 
quality and quantity to the shopping centre. 
49. In contrast, retailers that rely on comparison shopping by consumers derive 
the greatest benefits from co-locating with retailers selling similar but 
differentiated products (for example, fashion products), and from the additional 
foot traffic generated by anchor tenants. Comparison retailers are more likely 
to seek to locate in a shopping centre and less likely to consider alternative 
retail areas to be suitable alternatives.  
50. These types of retailers comprise a significant proportion of retail outlets at 
Karrinyup and Innaloo. Other retail areas, such as strip malls and 
neighbourhood shopping centres, are unlikely to be a suitable alternative for 
retail space in a regional or sub-regional shopping centre for such retailers. 
Thus, the proposed acquisition may have had a particular effect on 
competition to supply retail space to those retailers in north-west metropolitan 
Perth. 
51. As such, the available suitable alternatives to Karrinyup for specialty retailers 
relying on comparison shopping formed the focus of the ACCC’s review. The 
ACCC’s market inquiries indicated that Innaloo was the only suitable 
alternative to Karrinyup for these retailers in north-west metropolitan Perth.  
Market two: the supply of shopping centre amenities to customers (shoppers) 
52. Shopping centres compete to attract shoppers through the retail mix as well as 
by offering amenities such as car parking, children’s play areas, rest areas and 
bathrooms. The higher the quality of amenities offered, the more attractive a 


 
Page 9 of 11 
 
shopping centre will be to shoppers.  The ACCC considered this to be a 
relevant market for the purposes of assessing the potential competitive effects 
of the proposed acquisition.  
Geographic market  
53. The ACCC considered that the relevant geographic market for the supply of 
retail space is determined by considering which other shopping areas (if any) 
retailers could move to while retaining a significant proportion of their existing 
customer base. The ACCC considered, based on market inquiries and 
information about Karrinyup and Innaloo that the primary catchment area of 
Karrinyup is west of the Mitchell Freeway. 
54. For specialty retailers, in particular those retailers relying on comparison 
shopping, shopping centres located east of the Mitchell Freeway are not viable 
substitutes to retail space at Karrinyup. A number of retailers indicated that 
retail space east of the Mitchell Freeway would be a poor substitute to retail 
space in the shopping centres west of the Mitchell Freeway as the Freeway 
acted as a natural barrier. Market inquiries indicated that customers residing in 
the northern coastal regions in Perth do not typically cross the Mitchell 
Freeway to shop. 
55. Market feedback identified that retail space beyond the 10 kilometre radius to 
the north and south of Karrinyup serves different customer bases and was not 
a close substitute to retail space within this radius. Retailers submitted that 
they would be unlikely to move beyond this boundary in response to a rent 
increase at Karrinyup because their existing customers would be unlikely to 
follow them to alternative retail space.  
56. The ACCC concluded that the relevant geographic market for assessing the 
proposed acquisition was north-west metropolitan Perth, extending 10 
kilometres north of Karrinyup, 10 kilometres south of Karrinyup and bounded 
by the Indian Ocean to the west and Mitchell Freeway to the east (north-west 
metropolitan Perth).  
Likely effect of the proposed acquisition 
Market one – supply of retail space in shopping centres to retailers in 
north-west metropolitan Perth  
57. The ACCC was concerned about the future ability of Westfield and WRT to 
extract higher rents from retailers seeking to lease retail space in north-west 
metropolitan Perth, and in particular from retailers relying on comparison 
shopping such as clothing, footwear, jewellery and gift stores. This was the 
ACCC’s primary competition concern. The ACCC considered that retailers 
relying particularly on comparison shopping are typically limited to locating in 
regional, large sub-regional shopping centres and potentially some major 
commercial centres such as those located in central business districts. The 
ACCC did not consider neighbourhood shopping centres to provide a suitable 
alternative for such retailers.  
58. The ACCC considered that there is limited suitable alternative retail space 
available in north-west metropolitan Perth for retailers that rely on comparison 
shopping. The ACCC considered that retail space at Innaloo, which is located 
approximately 3.3 kilometres from Karrinyup, is a commercially suitable 
alternative to retail space at Karrinyup. While Innaloo is currently a sub-
regional shopping centre and does not benefit from a full line department 
store, Innaloo has two discount department stores and two supermarkets and 


 
Page 10 of 11 
 
has been able to successfully attract a number of retailers which rely on 
comparison shopping. The ACCC considered Karrinyup and Innaloo to be 
each other’s closest competitors. The ACCC was therefore concerned that 
competition between shopping centres to attract and retain retail tenants may 
have been substantially reduced by the proposed acquisition. Specifically, the 
ACCC was concerned about the ability and incentive for Westfield and WRT to 
impose rents and/or other terms and conditions of tenancies on existing and 
new entrant retailers that would not be possible in the absence of the 
proposed acquisition.  
59. The ACCC was also concerned that the proposed acquisition had the potential 
to reduce the incentives of Westfield and WRT to expand, develop and 
maintain Innaloo and thereby create a stronger competitor to Karrinyup if they 
owned both shopping centres. The ACCC considered that any such change in 
incentives may have resulted in a reduction in the quality of available retail 
space or a reduction in future available retail space, and thus increase its 
ability to charge higher rents to retailers because of a likely retail space supply 
shortage, to both existing and new entrant retailers in the absence of the 
proposed acquisition.  
Market two - the supply of shopping centre amenities to customers 
(shoppers) in north-west metropolitan Perth  
60. The ACCC was concerned about the extent to which the proposed acquisition 
would impact on shoppers in north-west metropolitan Perth, in terms of 
shopping centre amenities. The ACCC considered that common ownership of 
Karrinyup and Innaloo by Westfield and WRT, and any reduced incentive to 
expand and develop Innaloo, would have had the potential to result in reduced 
amenities and retail offerings to shoppers when compared to the position in 
the absence of the proposed acquisition.  
Undertaking 
61. On 4 September 2013, the ACCC accepted a court enforceable undertaking 
from Westfield Management Limited (in its capacity as responsible entity of the 
Westfield Trust), on behalf of itself and the Westfield Group RE1 Limited and 
RE2 Limited, pursuant to section 87B of the Act.  
Undertaking sale process and transaction structure  
62. Westfield and WRT entered into a Put and Call Option Deed (PCOD) which, 
upon its exercise by Westfield and WRT, would require an ACCC-approved 
buyer (being each of The Trust Company (Australia) Limited, Bieson Pty 
Limited, The Trust Company Limited, and Charter Hall Nominees Pty Limited) 
(the Buyer) to purchase Innaloo from Westfield and WRT.  
63. The undertaking to the ACCC required Westfield and WRT to: 
 
exercise its put option to require the Buyer to purchase Innaloo 
within 2 business days of acquiring an interest in 50 per cent or 
more of Karrinyup; 
 
if divestiture of Innaloo via the PCOD failed, divest Innaloo in 
accordance with the ACCC’s standard post-merger divestiture 
process; and 
 
if Westfield and WRT failed to divest Innaloo in the initial sale 
period, divest Innaloo in accordance with the ACCC’s standard 
provisions. 


 
Page 11 of 11 
 
64. In addition, the undertaking contained a number of obligations aimed at 
maintaining the economic viability, marketability, competitiveness and goodwill 
of the divestiture business prior to divestiture. 
Objective of the undertaking  
65. The objective of the undertaking was to address the competition concerns 
which would otherwise have arisen as a consequence of the proposed 
acquisition. The undertaking aimed  to achieve this objective by:  
 
maintaining the competition which existed before the proposed 
acquisition through the creation of a viable, effective, stand-alone 
independent and long term competitor in the supply of retail space 
in shopping centres in north-west metropolitan Perth;  
 
ensuring that any purchaser of the Divestiture Business (Innaloo) 
approved by the ACCC has the necessary assets, rights and 
agreements to compete effectively with Westfield and WRT;  
 
maintaining the economic viability, marketability, competitiveness 
and goodwill of the Divestiture Business prior to divestiture;  
 
requiring Westfield and WRT to appoint an Approved Independent 
Manager to manage the Divestiture Business until the completion of 
the divestiture of the Divestiture Business in the event that Westfield 
and WRT fail to divest the Divestiture Business to the Buyer 
pursuant to the Put and Call Option Deed; and  
 
providing for the effective oversight of Westfield and WRT’s 
compliance with the undertaking.  
Conclusion 
66. On the basis of the above, including taking into account the undertaking 
offered by Westfield Management Limited, RE1 Limited and RE2 Limited and 
accepted by the ACCC, the ACCC formed the view that the proposed 
acquisition of Karrinyup by Westfield and WRT would not be likely to have the 
effect of substantially lessening competition in any market in contravention of 
section 50 of the Act. 
Post-ACCC decision developments  
67. On 10 September 2013, Westfield and WRT sold their one-third interest in 
Karrinyup to UniSuper. As a result, the proposed acquisition was not 
completed by Westfield and WRT and therefore the substantive obligations of 
the undertaking offered to the ACCC to address its competition concerns in 
respect of the proposed acquisition, did not come into effect.  
68. On 19 September 2013, subsequent to Westfield and WRT selling their 
interest in Karrinyup, Westfield and WRT requested that the undertaking be 
withdrawn. In accordance with section 87B of the Act, the undertaking was 
withdrawn on  
9 October 2013.  
