 
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
tel: (02) 6243 1368 
mergers@accc.gov.au
www.accc.gov.au
Our ref: IM-72092 
Contact officer: Emma Moulds  
Contact phone: (08) 8456 3508  
24 January 2023 
Dear Interested Party, 
Re: Request for submissions: Woolworths Group Limited’s proposed 
acquisition of a 55% interest in PETstock Pty Ltd  
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is currently reviewing the 
proposed acquisition by Woolworths Group Limited (Woolworths) of 55% of the shares in 
PETstock Pty Ltd (Petspiration Group or PG) (the proposed acquisition). Further 
information on the merger parties is in Attachment A.  
The ACCC is considering the proposed acquisition under section 50 of the 
Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 of the Act prohibits mergers and 
acquisitions that substantially lessen competition in the market or are likely to do so. 
Information from firms like yours is one of the ACCC’s most valuable tools in 
assessing mergers. Your expertise in pet products and services will help the ACCC 
understand the impact of the proposed acquisition, including how your business may 
be affected. 
Request for submissions 
The ACCC is seeking comments from market participants and interested parties with its 
review of the proposed acquisition and would welcome any comments you have in relation 
to the competitive effects of the transaction. The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the 
impact on competition. In particular, we are seeking your views on:  
• 
the likely impact of the proposed acquisition on prices, product choice, range and/or 
service quality; 
• 
how closely Woolworths and Petspiration Group compete with each other and for 
what products/services; 
• 
how the proposed acquisition may affect Woolworths or Petspiration Group’s 
suppliers, or increase Woolworths/Petspiration Group’s bargaining power, and the 
impacts of this. 
 


How to share your views 
A list of specific questions is at Attachment B. The more information we have, the better 
we can assess the impact of the proposed acquisition, but if you are unsure of any 
questions, you can leave them blank.  
You can contact us in two ways:  
• 
If you would like to comment in writing, please do so by 4pm 14 February 2023 via 
email with the title: Submission re: Woolworths / Petspiration Group – attention 
Emma Moulds/Susan Zhuang. If you require more time to respond, please let us 
know.  
• 
If you would like to arrange a time to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have 
any questions about this letter, please contact Emma Moulds on (08) 8456 3508 or 
Susan Zhuang on (02) 6243 1097. 
This matter is public, and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public 
Mergers Register at (ACCC mergers register).  
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC treats sensitive information it receives during a merger review as confidential and will 
not publish your submission. We will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our 
advisors/consultants) unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information 
legislation or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition and 
Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, we will notify 
you in advance where possible so that you have an opportunity to be heard. Therefore, please 
clearly indicate if any information you provide is confidential. Our Informal Merger Review Process 
Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
Mark Basile 
Acting General Manager  
Merger Investigations  
 
 


 
Attachment A: Background on the merger parties 
 
Petspiration Group 
Petspiration Group is an Australian and New Zealand specialty pet retailer, with a 
broad range of pet products, rural supplies, and pet services in-store and online. It 
operates under various retail banners, including PETstock, Best Friends, My Pet 
Warehouse, Pet City and PETstock Country (with a greater focus on rural supplies, 
equine, and livestock products). 
PG’s product range includes pet food, cat litter, equine, fish, and other small animal 
products, pet accessories and pet health products. It has its own brand range 
including Billie’s Bowl, Caribu and Glow. PG also offers pet services such as dog 
grooming, water testing, pet training, doggy day-care, DIY dog wash, puppy school, 
pet adoption, pet laundry, pet ID tags and cat boarding. It also offers veterinary 
services, with a network of 63 vet hospitals in Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, and 
Perth, most of which are located within retail store locations. PG has a 2.4-million-
member loyalty program named PETstock Rewards.  
PG also has interests in the pet product manufacturers Agribrands and Big Dog Pet 
Foods and pet accessory wholesaler Time Pet Products. 
Woolworths  
Woolworths is an ASX-listed Australian and New Zealand retailer. Its operations in 
Australia primarily include supermarkets and general merchandise. Woolworths 
operates a national supermarket business, including its own distribution centres for 
the vast majority of products, and is one of Australia’s largest grocery retailers. 
Woolworths operates a loyalty program called Everyday Rewards. 
Woolworths also operates the discount department store BIG W (instore and online) 
and Everyday Market, an online marketplace that lists products from Woolworths’ 
owned sellers and third-party sellers. 
Woolworths has a 60% interest in PetCulture, an online specialty pet retail business 
(http://www.petculture.com.au) that supplies dog and cat food, treats, accessories 
and health products. PetCulture also offers VetChat, a 24/7 online vet advice service, 
and partners with Woolworths Insurance (pet insurance) and Everyday Rewards.  
 
The proposed acquisition 
 
On 15 December 2022, Woolworths announced that it proposes to acquire a 55% 
equity interest in Petspiration Group. PG’s founders will continue in leadership roles 
and together with existing shareholders will retain a 45% interest. Completion of the 
transaction is expected in mid-2023.  
 


Attachment B: Questions 
1. Please provide a brief description of your business or organisation, including any 
relationship you have with Woolworths or Petspiration Group.  
Competition in pet products and services 
2. On what basis do retailers of pet products and services compete (e.g. price, 
convenience, product range, service, quality, size, and other factors). 
3. To what extent do you consider each of the following retail channels to be 
competitors to Petspiration Group (including PETstock, Best Friends, My Pet 
Warehouse and Pet City and PETstock Country): 
a) Specialty pet retail chains with both physical and online stores;  
b) Independent specialty pet retailers with physical stores;  
c) Online-only specialty pet retailers;  
d) Supermarkets; 
e) Discount department stores; 
f) Veterinary clinics; and  
g) Other (please specify). 
4. Please describe how closely each of Woolworths (including BIG W) and Pet 
Culture competes with Petspiration Group, or may compete in the future (without 
the proposed acquisition), including the type(s) of products or services where 
they compete with each other.  
5. How far are customers willing to travel to buy pet products and services? Does 
this differ depending on the type of pet product/service, and in regional vs 
metropolitan areas, and if so how?   
6. Please explain whether and how competition in the retail supply of pet products 
and services occurs differently in physical retail stores vs online. 
7. Please explain whether it is important for pet product retailers to have both online 
and physical stores and the extent to which online-only stores compete with 
physical retail stores. 
Questions for wholesale suppliers or distributors of pet products and services  
8. Please describe the types of pet products and services you supply in Australia, 
and whether you supply specialty pet retailers and/or supermarkets or general 
retailers.  
9. Please identify your annual supply, by volume and value, of pet products and 
services: 
a) in total (to all customers across Australia);  
b) supplied to Petspiration Group in Australia; 
c) supplied to Woolworths (including BIG W) in Australia; and 
d) supplied to Pet Culture in Australia. 


10. Please explain the extent to which your product offering, pricing and terms of 
supply differs between specialty pet retailers and supermarkets/general retailers.  
11. Is the proposed acquisition likely to affect the pricing, product offering, or other 
terms of your supply to Woolworths and/or Petspiration Group? If so, how would 
your business likely respond?  
12. Will the proposed acquisition likely affect your ability to supply competitors to 
Woolworths and/or Petspiration Group? If so, how? 
Questions for retailers of pet products and services 
13. Please identify your competitors and estimate market shares where possible. 
14. Please describe what is required to enter into or expand in the retail supply of 
pet products and services. You may wish to comment on the following:  
a) the time it would take to enter or expand; 
b) costs that would be incurred; 
c) the scale required to be competitive; 
d) availability of real estate assets;  
e) ability to access to wholesale supply of products;  
f) importance of brand and the extent of brand loyalty; 
g) examples of recent or failed entry; and  
h) whether the proposed acquisition would impact barriers to entry and/or 
expansion.  
Other  
15. Do you have any concerns about the impact the proposed acquisition will have 
on competition? Please explain your answer.  
16. Please provide any additional information or comments that you consider relevant to 
the ACCC’s consideration of the proposed acquisition. 
Thank you for your time.  
