Page 1 of 20 
 
Statement of Issues 
29 June 2023 
 Transurban – proposed acquisition of Horizon Roads  
Purpose 
1. 
Transurban Group (Transurban) is seeking to acquire a majority interest in 
Horizon Roads Pty Ltd (Horizon Roads) through a competitive sale process (the 
proposed acquisition).  
2. 
This Statement of Issues: 
• 
gives the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission’s (ACCC) 
preliminary views on competition issues arising from the proposed 
acquisition 
• 
identifies areas of further inquiry 
• 
invites interested parties to submit comments and information to assist our 
assessment of the issues. 
3. 
Statements of Issues do not refer to confidential information provided by the 
parties or other market participants and therefore may not fully articulate the 
ACCC’s preliminary position. 
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views 
4. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is 
set out in section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. In general 
terms, section 50 prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to 
have the effect, of substantially lessening competition in any market. 
5. 
The ACCC divides its preliminary views into three categories, 'issues of concern', 
'issues that may raise concerns' and ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’. For this 
matter, there is one issue that may raise concerns and three issues unlikely to 
raise concerns.  


Transurban – proposed acquisition of Horizon Roads 
 
Page 2 of 20 
Issue that may raise concerns  
Competition for future toll road concessions 
6. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition may substantially lessen 
competition for concessions to construct, own and/or operate toll roads in Victoria. 
7. 
The ACCC is considering whether Transurban has incumbency advantages from 
holding toll road concessions, and the extent to which the proposed acquisition 
could increase those incumbency advantages. Incumbency advantages can 
impact competition by acting as barriers to entry for rival bidders for toll road 
concessions, and could prevent rivals from bidding for concessions at all. 
Potential incumbency advantages include having significant traffic modelling 
capability and expertise, the ability to access lower cost finance due to 
perceptions about traffic data and modelling expertise, having access to exclusive 
traffic data from existing Victorian toll roads, and a greater ability to submit 
successful unsolicited proposals for new toll roads with the Victorian Government. 
These incumbency advantages are likely greater for greenfield (unbuilt) than 
brownfield (existing) toll road opportunities.  
8. 
The ACCC is also concerned that the proposed acquisition may prevent the 
emergence of a key rival to Transurban for future toll road concessions. A majority 
interest in Horizon Roads, as an operational enterprise in Victoria, could provide a 
non-Transurban entity with the opportunity to gain some of the capabilities and 
incumbency advantages held by Transurban, including its traffic modelling 
capabilities, and leverage them to bid competitively for future toll road 
concessions in Victoria.  
9. 
The ACCC is also considering the extent to which the Victorian Government can 
constrain Transurban in future toll road concession sale processes. 
Issues unlikely to raise concerns  
10. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to 
substantially lessen competition in the supply of electronic tolling services (ETS) 
for motorists in Victoria because ETS fees and service levels are heavily 
regulated by toll road concession deeds and because ETS is not a primary source 
of revenue for roll road operators.  
11. Additionally, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is 
unlikely to substantially lessen competition for the supply of tolling 
systems/services to toll road operators as there appears to be numerous 
suppliers from which toll road operators could procure such systems/services.  
12. It is also the ACCC’s preliminary view that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to 
substantially lessen competition in relation to competition between toll roads in the 
Melbourne region because toll caps are set by the relevant concession deeds and 
it is unlikely that pricing below the toll caps for all motorists would be profit-
enhancing for a toll road operator. Further, the CityLink and EastLink toll roads 
are only substitutes for a small subset of motorists and it appears unlikely that 
Transurban would have the ability to discriminate effectively on price or service 
standards for motorists for which CityLink and EastLink are substitutes.  


Transurban – proposed acquisition of Horizon Roads 
 
Page 3 of 20 
Making a submission 
13. The ACCC invites submissions from interested parties, particularly on the 
following key issues: 
• 
whether Transurban has incumbency advantages from holding toll road 
concessions in Victoria and the extent to which these advantages impact 
competition for future roll road concessions in Victoria 
• 
whether the proposed acquisition would strengthen Transurban’s 
incumbency advantages in competing for future toll road concessions in 
Victoria 
• 
the extent to which a non-Transurban entity acquiring Horizon Roads would 
impact competition to construct, own and/or operate toll roads in Victoria, 
and whether this would be different from the status quo 
• 
the extent to which the Victorian Government would have the ability to 
constrain Transurban post-acquisition.  
14. Detailed discussion of these and other issues, along with specific questions, is 
contained in this Statement of Issues.  
15. Interested parties should provide submissions by 5pm on 14 July 2023. 
Responses may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: “Submission 
re: Transurban/Horizon Roads - attention Ninad Kulkarni/Albert Lee”. If you would 
like to discuss the matter with ACCC staff or have any questions about this 
Statement of Issues, please contact Ninad Kulkarni on (03) 9910 9531 or Albert 
Lee on (07) 3811 9266.  
16. The ACCC anticipates making a final decision on 7 September 2023, however, 
this timeline can change. To keep up with possible timing changes and to find 
relevant documents, interested parties should visit the Mergers Register on the 
ACCC's website at https://www.accc.gov.au/public-registers/mergers-
registers/public-informal-merger-reviews. 
Confidentiality of submissions 
17. The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We 
will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) 
unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or 
during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the CCA. Where the 
ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, the ACCC will notify you in 
advance where possible so that you may have an opportunity to be heard. 
Therefore, please identify any confidential information that is provided to the 
ACCC. Our Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information 
on confidentiality. 
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’ 
18. A Statement of Issues is not a final decision about a proposed acquisition. A 
Statement of Issues outlines the ACCC’s preliminary views and identifies further 
lines of inquiry. 


Transurban – proposed acquisition of Horizon Roads 
 
Page 4 of 20 
19. A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 
The parties 
Transurban 
20. Transurban is listed on the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX) and is 
Australia’s largest toll road operator. Transurban’s operations include the 
development, ownership, management and operation of toll roads in Australia and 
North America. In Victoria, Transurban has interests in the following toll roads: 
• 
CityLink 
• 
West Gate Tunnel (under construction).  
21. In addition to its toll road assets, Transurban provides electronic tolling and tag 
issuing services under the Linkt brand. 
Horizon Roads 
22. Horizon Roads is a private Australian resident company. In addition to being the 
ultimate concession holder of the EastLink toll road, Horizon Roads also provides 
electronic tolling and tag issuing services under the EastLink brand. 
The proposed transaction 
23. Transurban is seeking to acquire a majority interest in Horizon Roads through a 
competitive sale process. Horizon Roads has multiple shareholders and some are 
seeking to sell their interests through this sale process. Horizon Roads, through 
ConnectEast, holds a concession from the State of Victoria to operate the 
EastLink toll road until November 2043. ConnectEast was awarded the 
concession to fund, design, build, own and operate EastLink in 2004, and 
EastLink opened to traffic in 2008.    
24. EastLink is a 39-kilometre freeway in south-east Melbourne that runs from 
Mitcham to Frankston. It connects to the Monash, Eastern, Frankston and 
Peninsula Link freeways. Map 1 shows EastLink in relation to other Melbourne toll 
roads and freeways, including Transurban’s CityLink. 


Transurban – proposed acquisition of Horizon Roads 
 
Page 5 of 20 
Map 1 – Melbourne toll roads and freeways 
 
Industry background 
Toll roads in Australia 
25. Toll road concessions are typically long-term contractual arrangements between a 
toll road operator and the relevant state government under which the operator 
constructs, operates and/or maintains a toll road in return for the right to collect 
toll revenue from motorists using the toll road to which the concession relates. 
The concession deeds differ from road to road. For example, there might be a 
different pricing structure depending on the size and nature of the toll road or 
different prescriptions as to the level of administrative fees that can be levied on 
motorists. Generally, toll road concessions set the maximum price that the toll 
road operator can charge motorists for using the toll road.  
26. Toll road concessions are generally awarded following a competitive bid process. 
However, toll road concessions can also be awarded in response to an unsolicited 
proposal. An unsolicited proposal is a proposal from a private entity to a state 
government in relation to an infrastructure project for which the government has 
not requested proposals. In relation to toll roads, an unsolicited proposal can be 
for either a toll road that has been identified as a potential project by the relevant 
state government, or a proposal for a toll road that has not previously been 
identified by the government.  
27. Australia-wide, Transurban has been awarded five toll road concessions or toll 
road upgrade projects after submitting unsolicited proposals to the relevant state 


Transurban – proposed acquisition of Horizon Roads 
 
Page 6 of 20 
governments.1 These were awarded in exchange for extending concessions on 
existing toll roads or for increases to tolls for heavy vehicles.  
Toll roads in Victoria  
28. There are four toll roads in operation or under construction in Victoria:  
• 
The CityLink concession was awarded to Transurban following a 
competitive sale process run by the Victorian government. The concession 
is due to expire in 2045.  
• 
The EastLink concession was awarded to ConnectEast following a 
competitive sale process run by the Victorian government. The concession 
is due to expire in 2043.   
• 
The West Gate Tunnel toll road concession was awarded to Transurban 
after it submitted an unsolicited proposal to the Victorian Government. The 
concession was awarded in exchange for an extension of the CityLink 
concession. The concession is due to expire in 2045.  
• 
The North East Link toll road is being built, and will be operated, maintained 
and tolled by entities owned by the Victorian government.  
Traffic modelling2 
29. Traffic modelling and forecasting are key inputs into bids for toll road concessions 
as they enable estimates of toll revenue over the concession period to be made. 
The level of confidence in traffic forecasts is critical and has tangible impacts, 
most importantly on the required rate of return for equity contributors.  
30. There is an inherent degree of uncertainty when forecasting traffic flows and 
revenues for toll road concessions. Forecasts rely on demand assumptions about 
growth to accurately predict traffic flows and revenues. Traffic models are 
calibrated and validated using existing road-use data, including traffic count data 
and trip/travel pattern data.  
31. Traffic modelling and forecasting for a new toll road generally takes a significant 
period of time and involves considerable costs. Existing toll road operators may 
have in-house modelling teams that can undertake the necessary modelling. 
Alternatively this task may need to be outsourced to specialised traffic modelling 
consultants.  
Traffic data3 
32. As mentioned above, there are two key types of traffic data used in forecasting 
traffic on future toll roads: traffic count data and trip/travel pattern data.  
 
 
1 NorthConnex (NSW) in March 2014, CityLink upgrades (Vic) in August 2015, Logan Enhancement Project (Qld) in 
November 2016, Inner City Bypass Upgrade (Qld) in March 2017, West Gate Tunnel (Vic) in December 2017.  
2 These modelling issues were explored in the WestConnex Public Competition Assessment.  
3 These data issues were explored in the WestConnex Public Competition Assessment.  


Transurban – proposed acquisition of Horizon Roads 
 
Page 7 of 20 
Traffic count data  
33. Traffic count data is data that measures the number and type of vehicles that 
pass by a certain point. It is used for the following purposes in traffic modelling:   
• 
Calculation of annualisation factors – strategic models (i.e. models 
designed to forecast traffic demand on future toll roads) generally model an 
average work day. Annualisation factors are used to convert the average 
workday forecast into an annual traffic forecast.  
• 
Validation – comparing actual traffic counts at points across the road 
network with model forecasts of traffic counts at the same locations.  
34. Traffic count data can be obtained from the following sources:  
• 
Gantry data collected by toll road operators   
• 
Induction loop and traffic survey data collected by governments on public 
roads  
• 
Induction loop data collected by toll road owners (located on the toll roads 
and on some entry/exit ramps) 
• 
Non-government traffic surveys conducted on public roads using various 
forms of technology (e.g. cameras, counting tubes across roads). 
35. Gantry data is collected by equipment mounted on gantries located on toll roads. 
This equipment detects electronic tags (e-tags), classifies vehicles and 
photographs vehicles. The photographs are used to match vehicles to an account 
or licence plate number where no e-tag is detected. Relevant for modelling, the 
equipment collects information on passages (the number of vehicles that pass 
under the gantry), vehicle class (i.e. light or heavy vehicle) and passage date and 
time.  
36. Gantry data is collected for the primary purpose of billing customers for their use 
of toll roads. As such, the data is very accurate.  
Trip/travel pattern data 
37. Trip or travel pattern data is data that describes trips taken by vehicles through a 
network.  
38. In traffic modelling, trip data could be used for calculating travel times/speeds, 
identifying travel patterns of vehicles on toll roads, and understanding user 
behaviour, including willingness-to-pay, value-of-time, toll elasticity parameters, 
and frequency of toll road usage.  
39. Understanding travel times and user behaviour, in particular willingness-to-pay 
and value-of-time, is vital for traffic modelling as it allows modellers to create 
accurate origin/destination matrices which are used to determine which vehicles 
will travel on which roads, including the new road being modelled.  
40. Trip/travel pattern data for Victoria can be obtained from public sources or can be 
readily acquired, including from the following sources:  


Transurban – proposed acquisition of Horizon Roads 
 
Page 8 of 20 
• 
TomTom/Google/mobile phone travel time data 
• 
Victorian Integrated Survey of Travel and Activity 
• 
ABS Journey to Work data  
• 
Revealed and stated preference surveys.  
Electronic tolling  
41. Australian toll roads employ Electronic Tolling Collection (ETC) technology to 
capture information of vehicles that travel on the roads. Motorists must use an e-
tag, or a non-tag account or pass when driving on toll roads. These e-tags, non-
tag accounts and passes allow a toll road’s ETC infrastructure to capture 
motorists’ travel on toll roads. A vehicle’s trip data is captured by tolling gantries 
on the toll roads and processed by “back-end” systems which validate trips and 
convert this to a toll charge. 
Previous ACCC decisions 
Sydney Transport Partners (including Transurban) proposed acquisition of 
WestConnex 
42. On 30 August 2018, the ACCC decided not to oppose the proposed acquisition of 
a majority interest in the WestConnex toll road project by Sydney Transport 
Partners (STP) (a consortium led by Transurban) subject to section 87B 
undertakings to publish gantry count traffic data for Transurban’s NSW toll roads 
(referred to as the WestConnex review for the remainder of this SOI).  
43. The WestConnex review focussed on the impact the proposed acquisition would 
have on the level of competition for future toll road concessions in New South 
Wales (NSW). In particular, the ACCC considered whether the proposed 
acquisition would lessen competition by strengthening Transurban’s incumbency 
advantages and preventing an alternative acquirer from establishing a significant 
toll road presence and therefore competing more vigorously for future toll road 
concessions. The ACCC also assessed road-on-road competition issues, and 
whether Transurban’s existing toll road interests might compete with the 
WestConnex roads.  
44. Further details of the ACCC’s assessment can be found in the Public Competition 
Assessment.  
Transurban’s proposed acquisition of BrisConnections  
45. On 26 November 2015, the ACCC decided not to oppose Transurban’s proposed 
acquisition of BrisConnections. The ACCC considered the acquisition in the 
markets for the supply of electronic tolling services to motorists, the supply of 
tolling services to holders of toll road concessions, and the bidding market for the 
award of concessions for toll road construction and operation. The ACCC 
concluded that the proposed acquisition was unlikely to substantially lessen 
competition in any relevant market.  


Transurban – proposed acquisition of Horizon Roads 
 
Page 9 of 20 
Transurban’s proposed acquisition of the Queensland Motorway Group  
46. On 4 April 2014, the ACCC decided not to oppose Transurban’s proposed 
acquisition of the Queensland Motorway Group. The ACCC considered the 
acquisition in the market for the supply of tolling services to holders of toll road 
concessions and in the national bidding market for the award of concessions for 
toll road construction, ownership and/or operation. The ACCC found that the 
proposed acquisition was unlikely to substantially lessen competition in either of 
these markets.  
Transurban’s proposed acquisition of Connector Motorways Group 
47. On 20 April 2010, the ACCC decided not to oppose Transurban’s proposed 
acquisition of Connector Motorways Group. The ACCC considered the proposed 
acquisition in the context of the markets for the provision of electronic tolling 
services to motorists in New South Wales, the provision of tolling services to toll 
roads in New South Wales, and toll road construction and ownership in Australia. 
The ACCC found that the proposed acquisition was unlikely to substantially 
lessen competition in any of these markets.  
Transurban’s proposed acquisition of Sydney Roads Group 
48. On 8 March 2007, the ACCC decided not to oppose Transurban’s proposed 
acquisition of Sydney Roads Group. The ACCC considered the potential impact of 
the proposed acquisition on the market for toll road construction and ownership, 
and the market for provision of tolling services to motorists. The ACCC found that 
the proposed acquisition was unlikely to substantially lessen competition in either 
of these markets.   
Future with and without the acquisition 
49. In assessing a proposed acquisition under section 50 of the CCA, the ACCC 
considers the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future state of 
competition if the acquisition proceeds (the ’with’ position) to the likely future state 
of competition if the acquisition does not proceed (the ‘without’ position) to 
determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to substantially lessen 
competition in any relevant market. 
50. If the proposed acquisition by Transurban does not proceed, the ACCC considers 
it likely that Horizon Roads would be acquired by an alternative bidder in the sale 
process. This would result in a non-Transurban entity continuing to hold the 
EastLink concession deed. Without the acquisition, an alternative toll road 
owner/operator could leverage the existing management capabilities and 
expertise held by Horizon Roads to contest the incumbency advantages which 
would otherwise be solely held by Transurban, including by further developing 
traffic modelling capabilities and expertise and the ability to access lower cost 
finance. An alternative toll road owner/operator with its own incumbency 
advantages is likely to increase competition for future toll road concessions in 
Victoria.  
Invitation for comments  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary views about 
the future without the proposed acquisition. In particular, market participants may wish 


Transurban – proposed acquisition of Horizon Roads 
 
Page 10 of 20 
to comment on the impact a non-Transurban entity acquiring Horizon Roads would 
have on competition for future toll road concessions in Victoria, including the extent to 
which this would provide a non-Transurban entity with incumbency advantages similar 
to those of Transurban, or to build over time such incumbency advantages, and the 
extent to which these advantages could be leveraged to bid for future toll road 
concessions.  
Market definition 
51. The ACCC’s starting point for delineating relevant markets, to assess the 
competitive effects of the proposed acquisition, involves identifying the products 
and geographic regions actually or potentially supplied by the parties to the 
transaction. The ACCC then focuses on areas of activity where competitive harm 
could occur as a result of the proposed acquisition.  
52. The ACCC is considering the impact of the proposed acquisition on competition: 
• 
for concessions to construct, own and/or operate toll roads in Victoria  
• 
for the supply of electronic tolling services for motorists in Victoria 
• 
for the supply of tolling systems/services to toll road operators 
• 
between toll roads in the Melbourne region.  
53. The relevant markets for analysing these issues are discussed below. 
Market for toll road concessions 
54. In the WestConnex review, the ACCC considered that the market for toll road 
concessions includes concessions that are acquired following a competitive 
bidding process and concessions obtained through unsolicited proposals. The 
ACCC also considered that the geographic dimension of the market was likely to 
be state-based.  
55. The ACCC considers that the same approach is appropriate for this review. The 
reasons for this are discussed in detail below.  
Unsolicited proposals are part of the market for toll road concessions 
56. Prior to the WestConnex review, the ACCC had considered toll road acquisitions 
in the context of a bidding market for toll road concessions, as unsolicited 
proposals for toll roads had not been raised as a significant issue. However, on 
the WestConnex review, market participants raised concerns that the proposed 
acquisition of WestConnex would give Transurban an increased ability to offer 
successful unsolicited proposals to the NSW Government. Similar concerns have 
been raised in this review regarding Transurban’s ability to offer unsolicited 
proposals for new toll roads to the Victorian Government.  
57. Unsolicited proposals and bidding processes are both ways of obtaining toll road 
concessions. When assessing an unsolicited proposal, a state government can 
decide whether to accept the unsolicited proposal or conduct a competitive 
bidding process instead. The ACCC therefore considers that both competitive 
sales processes and unsolicited proposals form part of the relevant market. 


Transurban – proposed acquisition of Horizon Roads 
 
Page 11 of 20 
Geographic dimension 
58. Prior to the WestConnex review, the ACCC had considered both national and 
state-based markets in respect of toll road concessions. The ACCC understands 
that generally, toll road developers and operators are able to compete for toll road 
concessions from any location, which points towards there being a national 
market for toll road concessions.  
59. However, potential incumbency advantages arising from a toll road operator 
having traffic data and models, and the ability to offer successful unsolicited 
proposals, are state-based incumbency advantages. Further, the ability of state 
governments to impact concession sale processes are likewise state-based.  
60. As such, the ACCC considers that the most relevant geographic dimension to be 
state-based, meaning Victoria for this proposed acquisition, while noting the 
possibility for the market to have a national dimension.  
Market for the supply of electronic tolling services for motorists in Victoria  
61. Electronic tolling services for motorists include e-tag and non-tag accounts that 
allow motorists to travel on tollways. The ACCC considers that the product 
dimension of the market includes e-tags and non-tag accounts issued to motorists 
and the management of these accounts. The ACCC considers that the 
geographic dimension of the market is state-based, so Victorian in this instance, 
as the ACCC understands motorists rarely purchase an e-tag or non-tag account 
from another state.  
Market for the supply of tolling systems/services to toll road operators  
62. Electronic tolling systems/services allow a toll road operator to track motorists’ 
passages on toll roads and charge motorists for use. The ACCC’s preliminary 
view is that these systems/services can be procured from suppliers Australia-wide 
and internationally. There does not appear to be anything unique about Victoria 
that would require such systems/services to be provided by suppliers located in 
Victoria.   
Competition between toll roads in the Melbourne region  
63. The ACCC is considering whether there are certain origin/destination 
combinations in Melbourne for which EastLink and CityLink are likely to be 
substitutes for motorists. We consider these origin/destination combinations are 
likely to be certain geographic areas (e.g. Melbourne CBD, Dandenong) rather 
than exact entry and exit points of toll roads.  
64. The ACCC is also considering whether un-tolled alternate routes provide logistical 
choices and impose constraints on toll roads.  
Invitation for comments 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary views about 
the definitions of the relevant markets.  


Transurban – proposed acquisition of Horizon Roads 
 
Page 12 of 20 
Issue that may raise concerns: impact on competition for 
toll road concessions 
65. The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition may substantially lessen 
competition for concessions to construct, own and/or operate toll roads in Victoria.  
66. Market participants have raised concerns that Transurban has significant 
incumbency advantages from holding toll road concessions, and are concerned 
that the proposed acquisition would further strengthen Transurban’s incumbency 
advantages to such an extent that its competitors would be reluctant to compete 
for future toll road concessions in Victoria (i.e. the proposed acquisition would 
raise barriers to entry to such an extent that rival bidders may not compete).  
67. Market participants have also suggested that the proposed acquisition would 
prevent a non-Transurban entity gaining control of Horizon Roads and attaining 
some incumbency advantages of the kind currently held by Transurban, and 
therefore prevent the potential for an alternative bidder to compete strongly for 
future toll road concessions.  
68. The ACCC is continuing to assess the extent to which the proposed acquisition 
would increase Transurban’s incumbency advantages. In particular, the ACCC is 
considering four sources of such incumbency advantages that have been raised 
as particularly concerning by market participants:  
• 
traffic modelling capability and expertise, due to ownership of existing 
Victorian and other toll roads 
• 
lower costs of finance based on the perception of financiers (debt providers 
and equity partners) that Transurban has significant exclusive data and 
superior traffic modelling capability 
• 
exclusive access to data from existing Victorian toll roads  
• 
strong position to negotiate unsolicited proposals with the Victorian 
Government.  
69. The ACCC is also considering the extent to which the Victorian Government 
would be able to constrain Transurban and foster competition for future toll road 
concessions.  
70. These issues are discussed in turn below.  
Traffic modelling capabilities 
71. Market participants have raised concerns that Transurban’s modelling capabilities 
provide it with significant incumbency advantages, principally arising from 
employing more knowledgeable and skilled traffic modellers and having an 
existing traffic model of Melbourne that is continually updated.  
72. As Transurban operates toll roads in Melbourne, it has an in-house traffic 
modelling team that is likely to have gained, over Transurban’s time holding 
concessions, extensive knowledge of the Melbourne traffic network. This may 
provide Transurban with an advantage in bidding for new toll roads in the 
Melbourne region.  


Transurban – proposed acquisition of Horizon Roads 
 
Page 13 of 20 
73. Further, Transurban has an operational traffic model of its toll roads in Melbourne. 
Transurban may be able to use this model as a base or starting point for 
forecasting traffic flows on new toll roads. Over Transurban’s time holding 
concessions and operating toll roads in Melbourne, it would likely have had the 
opportunity to develop and refine this model to an extent that its rivals without toll 
roads in Melbourne would not have. This may provide Transurban with a 
significant advantage when bidding for new toll roads in Victoria.   
74. These advantages are likely more pronounced in relation to greenfield toll road 
opportunities as less sophisticated modelling is required to forecast traffic on 
existing roads with historic traffic data.  
75. In addition, as Horizon Roads operates a toll road in Melbourne, if a non-
Transurban entity acquired Horizon Roads, it may be able to further develop its 
own modelling capabilities and expertise to compete more effectively for future toll 
road concessions in Victoria. Conversely, the proposed acquisition would prevent 
a non-Transurban entity from gaining and building on these capabilities and 
expertise, and would mean Transurban is the only entity operating in Melbourne 
with significant capabilities and expertise in relation to toll roads.   
76. The ACCC is continuing to consider this issue. However, the ACCC’s preliminary 
view is that Transurban’s modelling capabilities and expertise are likely to provide 
it with a competitive advantage when bidding for future toll road concessions in 
Victoria.  
Financiers’ perceptions  
77. Market participants have raised concerns that the level of confidence in traffic 
forecasts is a key input of debt and equity financiers when considering whether to 
invest in toll roads, and that greater confidence in Transurban’s traffic forecasts 
and traffic modelling results in lower costs of finance for Transurban than for its 
competitors. This advantage is again most relevant for greenfield concessions as 
these involve the highest degree of risk relating to traffic forecasts.  
78. The ACCC understands that the cost of debt finance is predominantly influenced 
by the nature of the asset being financed, and that on this basis, Transurban is 
unlikely to receive materially different debt financing terms for toll roads than rival 
bidders. However, the ACCC is still considering the impact of perceptions about 
Transurban’s data and modelling capabilities on equity financing, including 
Transurban’s ability to find equity financing partners, and the costs of such 
finance compared to its rivals.  
79. The ACCC is also considering whether a non-Transurban entity that acquired 
Horizon Roads (and therefore established a history of operating a successful toll 
road in Victoria and developed its own modelling capabilities) would be able to 
find equity partners and access equity finance on similarly favourable terms to 
Transurban, which may reduce its costs of finance and allow it to bid more 
competitively for future toll road concession in Victoria.  
Access to traffic data  
80. As set out in the background section above, traffic models for new toll roads are 
calibrated and validated using existing road-use data, including traffic count data 
and trip/travel pattern data. 


Transurban – proposed acquisition of Horizon Roads 
 
Page 14 of 20 
Trip/travel pattern data  
81. Market participants have raised concerns that Transurban’s existing toll road 
concessions and customer accounts provide it with access to real-time, high 
quality and exclusive data that allows it to track individual trips through its road 
network, which is valuable for modelling. They contend that the proposed 
acquisition will provide Transurban with even greater data for modelling future toll 
roads and will provide Transurban with an insurmountable advantage when 
forecasting traffic flows. This advantage is particularly relevant for greenfield toll 
roads where, unlike for existing toll roads, there is no historic data for traffic on the 
road.  
82. On the WestConnex review, the ACCC found that exclusive data that Transurban 
has access to (other than gantry traffic count data), such as individual trip data, is 
not valuable for strategic modelling and is not used by Transurban for traffic 
modelling. As such, while Transurban may have access to such data, it does not 
provide Transurban with any incumbency advantage as it does not use this data 
for modelling new toll roads.  
83. Further, as set out in the Background section, the ACCC understands that there 
are numerous publicly available sources of trip/travel pattern data available to 
rival bidders, including TomTom/Google/mobile phone data.  
84. The ACCC is continuing to consider this issue, in particular the availability and 
significance of alternative sources of trip/travel pattern data for Transurban’s 
rivals.  
Traffic count data  
85. On the WestConnex review, the ACCC found that the only exclusive data from its 
toll roads that Transurban uses in modelling future toll roads is gantry traffic count 
data. This data is used by Transurban to calibrate and validate areas of its traffic 
models.  
86. The ACCC is continuing to consider the importance of gantry traffic count data for 
strategic modelling. However, market feedback on this review has indicated that 
traffic count data may not be particularly useful for modelling new roads as 
motorists’ trips do not begin and end on toll roads, and so this data only provides 
partial information about motorists’ trips.  
87. The ACCC also understands that there are numerous other sources of traffic 
count data that rival bidders for future toll roads can access (see Background 
section above). 
Leveraging existing toll roads to make successful unsolicited proposals 
88. Market participants have noted that only incumbent toll road operators can offer 
successful unsolicited proposals for new toll roads. These market participants 
have raised concerns that post-acquisition, Transurban would be the only entity 
able to make successful unsolicited proposals for new toll road concessions in 
Victoria, and that if an alternative entity acquired Horizon Roads, there would 
continue be two major toll road operators in Victoria who could potentially make 
successful unsolicited proposals.  


Transurban – proposed acquisition of Horizon Roads 
 
Page 15 of 20 
89. The ACCC understands that the outcome of unsolicited proposals is at the 
discretion of the Victorian Government. However, the ACCC is continuing to 
consider the impact that having only one incumbent toll road operator in Victoria 
would have on unsolicited proposals, as compared to a scenario where there are 
two active toll road operators in Victoria.  
Position of the Victorian Government  
90. The ACCC is continuing to assess the extent to which the Victorian Government 
has the ability to constrain Transurban and foster competition for future toll road 
concessions. The ACCC is particularly considering the extent to which having 
more than one incumbent toll road operator in Victoria enhances the Victorian 
Government’s ability to facilitate such competition. 
Ability to control sale processes to encourage competition 
91. As the sole vendor of new toll road concessions in Victoria, the Victorian 
Government has the ability to set and control sale processes for toll road 
concessions, and therefore to design sale processes to facilitate competitive sale 
processes for future toll road concessions. However, there are likely to be 
regulatory and practical limits on this ability. 
92. The Victorian Government may be able to provide non-Transurban bidders with 
traffic data from Victorian toll roads that is approximately equivalent to 
Transurban’s exclusive traffic count data. It may also be able to implement sales 
processes intended to facilitate rival bidders having sufficient time to develop 
strategic traffic models and may be able to reimburse some associated bid costs 
for rival bidders. However, these measures come at a cost to the Victorian 
Government, may only partly alleviate the information asymmetry between 
Transurban and rival bidders in relation to data, and may not allow rival bidders to 
develop sufficiently confident models to compete effectively with Transurban. As 
such, there may be limits to the extent to which the Victorian Government is able 
to enhance competition for toll road concessions through these measures.  
93. Further, the Victorian Government may be able to promote competition and 
constrain Transurban by not accepting unsolicited proposals from Transurban. 
The ACCC is also considering whether the Victorian Government could indicate in 
competitive sale processes that it will favour bids that would establish a new toll 
road operator in Victoria. However, these measures have the potential to lead to 
reduced value for money or economically inefficient outcomes for the State, and 
as such, may not be viable options for the Victorian Government in all 
circumstances.  
94. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that while the State Government may have the 
ability to increase competition for future toll road concessions through various 
measures, such measures may not in fact increase competition significantly, or 
may not be practical options for the Victorian Government. In light of this, the 
ACCC considers that this increases the importance of having a second incumbent 
toll road operator in Victoria as it would significantly enhance the Victorian 
Government’s ability to facilitate more competitive sale processes, as against 
Transurban being the only incumbent toll road operator.  


Transurban – proposed acquisition of Horizon Roads 
 
Page 16 of 20 
Ability to construct and operate toll roads 
95. The ACCC is also considering the extent to which the Victorian Government can 
construct and operate toll roads itself rather than outsourcing to private operators, 
and the competitive constraint this may have on Transurban. The Victorian 
Government has adopted this approach for the North East Link. However, the 
ACCC considers there are likely to be potential challenges for the Victorian 
Government in implementing this approach in all circumstances and that the 
State’s ability to construct or operate any toll road would vary depending on the 
State’s budgetary position. As such, it is not clear that the Victorian Government’s 
potential ability to construct and operate toll roads itself would provide a 
meaningful competitive constraint on Transurban. 
Invitation for comments  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the above issues relating to 
competition for future toll road concessions in Victoria. In particular, market 
participants may to comment on:  
a. the extent to which the proposed acquisition would increase Transurban’s ability to 
obtain toll road concessions in Victoria in competitive tender processes, and how it 
would do so.  
b. the impact of a non-Transurban entity acquiring Horizon Roads on competition to 
construct, own and/or operate toll roads in Victoria, and whether this would be 
different from the status quo.  
c. whether Transurban has an advantage from its modelling capabilities and 
expertise, and the extent to which the proposed acquisition would increase such an 
advantage.  
d. whether a non-Transurban entity acquiring Horizon Roads would enable that entity 
to develop modelling capabilities and expertise to compete more effectively for toll 
road concessions in Victoria.  
e. whether financiers’ perceptions about Transurban allow Transurban to access 
finance at lower costs than competitors, and the source of these perceptions.  
f. whether a non-Transurban entity acquiring Horizon Roads would provide that entity 
with the opportunity to obtain finance on similar terms to Transurban when bidding 
for future toll road concessions.  
g. the importance of various types of traffic data in evaluating toll road concession 
opportunities, including which types of data are most valuable for modelling.   
h. whether Transurban’s exclusive traffic data provides it with an advantage in 
competing for toll road concessions, the extent to which the proposed acquisition 
would increase such an advantage.  
i. 
the extent to which the proposed acquisition would increase Transurban’s ability to 
submit successful unsolicited proposals to the Victorian Government, and how it 
would do so.  


Transurban – proposed acquisition of Horizon Roads 
 
Page 17 of 20 
j. 
the extent to which a non-Transurban entity could use Horizon Roads to offer 
unsolicited proposals to the Victorian Government and the impact this would have 
on competition for future toll road concessions in Victoria.  
k. the extent to which the Victorian Government can constrain Transurban and 
facilitate competition for future toll road concessions through sale process design,  
and the extent to which having a second incumbent toll road operator in Victoria 
would enhance the Victorian Government’s ability to run competitive sale 
processes.  
l. 
the extent to which the Victorian Government can facilitate the sharing of traffic 
data (including what data it could share) with rival bidders and provide sufficient 
time for rival bidders to develop traffic models, including whether there are 
limitations to when this approach can be used, and the extent to which these 
measures would increase competition.  
m. whether the Victorian Government could favour bidders for toll road concessions 
that would establish a new toll road operator in Victoria, and the impact this would 
have on concession sale processes.  
n. the extent to which the Victorian Government can construct and operate toll roads 
itself, including whether there are limitations to its ability to do this in all 
circumstances, and the impact this has on competition for future toll road 
concessions.  
Issue unlikely to raise concerns: impact on the supply of 
electronic tolling services for motorists in Victoria  
96. ETS for motorists include electronic tag and non-tag accounts that allow motorists 
to travel, and pay for travel, on tollways. Market feedback has raised concerns 
that the proposed acquisition will lead to a substantial lessening of competition in 
the supply of ETS for motorists in Victoria.  
97. Market feedback has noted that Victorian motorists have the option to sign up to 
an ETS account with either Horizon Roads or Transurban (through its Linkt 
brand). Concerns have been raised that the proposed acquisition will remove 
competition in Victoria for the supply of ETS, removing Transurban’s incentives to 
lower prices or increase the service standards of its ETS offering. 
98. However, the ACCC considers that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to 
substantially lessen competition in the supply of ETS for motorists in Victoria for 
the following reasons.  
99. ETS fees are highly regulated. All account fees are prescribed by concession 
deeds, and Transurban does not (and would not post-acquisition) have the ability 
to unilaterally increase account fees. Any increases would need the approval of 
the Victorian Government. As such, the proposed acquisition would not alter 
Transurban’s ability to increase any fees associated with ETS.  
100. ETS customer service standards are also highly regulated. Customer service 
standards are prescribed by the relevant concession deeds, and Transurban does 
not (and would not post-acquisition) have the ability to unilaterally decrease 
customer services levels below that prescribed in each concession deed. As 
such, the proposed acquisition would not alter Transurban’s ability to decrease 


Transurban – proposed acquisition of Horizon Roads 
 
Page 18 of 20 
customer service levels below those prescribed in the relevant concession deeds. 
The loss of a rival ETS provider may allow Transurban to reduce service levels to 
the extent service levels are currently above those prescribed by the relevant 
concession deeds, or not covered by the relevant concession deeds. However, 
this ACCC’s preliminary view is that this is unlikely to have a significant impact on 
competition.  
101. Further, the vast majority of a toll road operator’s revenue is from tolls, and the 
ultimate purpose of ETS is to facilitate greater and cost-effective collection of toll 
revenue. ETS itself does not appear likely to be a significant source of revenue for 
toll road operators. As such, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that there is unlikely 
to be strong competition between toll road operators in relation to ETS.  
Invitation for comments 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the above issues relating to 
the supply of electronic tolling services for motorists in Victoria.  
Issue unlikely to raise concerns: impact on the supply of 
electronic tolling systems/services for toll road operators  
102. Electronic tolling systems/services allow a toll road operator to track motorists’ 
passages on toll roads and charge motorists for use. Market feedback has 
indicated that Transurban and Horizon Roads are the only two suppliers of tolling 
systems/services in Victoria, and that the proposed acquisition will result in 
Transurban being the only operator of these systems in Victoria. There is concern 
this will reduce competition for the procurement of tolling systems/services for 
future toll roads in Victoria. 
103. The ACCC considers that Transurban and Horizon Roads are the only two 
operators of tolling systems/services in Victoria. However, the ACCC considers 
that any new toll road operator would have a number of viable suppliers of tolling 
systems/services for the following reasons.  
104. There are numerous large international suppliers from which a toll road operator 
could procure tolling systems/services, including Sociedad Ibérica de 
Construcciones Eléctricas, S.A. (SICE) and Q-Free, both of which already provide 
tolling systems/services in Australia.  
105. Further, Horizon Roads procured its tolling system from third parties, including 
Kapsch TrafficCom for its image processing system4 and SICE for its tolling back-
office system.5 This demonstrates that Victorian-based toll road operators can 
procure tolling systems/services from third parties, including international 
suppliers.  
106. Given this, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the loss of Horizon Roads as a 
potential supplier of tolling systems/services would not have a significant impact 
on competition.  
 
 
4 
https://www.kapsch.net/_Resources/Persistent/290d5cbbdbee87935d2385c083f365653a6582a3/KTC7352_IPS_AIME
S.pdf  
5 https://www.eastlink.com.au/news-media/229-eastlink-switches-over-to-sice-system 


Transurban – proposed acquisition of Horizon Roads 
 
Page 19 of 20 
Invitation for comments 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the above issues relating to 
the supply of electronic tolling systems/services for toll road operators. Market 
participants may wish to comment on the ability of international supplies of these 
systems/services to supply into Victoria and any barriers that such suppliers may face.  
Issue unlikely to raise concerns: impact on competition 
between toll roads in the Melbourne region  
107. Market feedback has indicated that Transurban’s CityLink toll road and Horizon 
Roads’ EastLink toll road are substitutable for some motorists (i.e. for some 
origin/destination combinations), and therefore may compete on price (tolls) and 
service quality.  
108. The ACCC considers that there could be substitutability between the 
CityLink/Monash freeway and the Eastern freeway/EastLink for motorists 
travelling between Melbourne’s west or CBD and the outer south-east suburbs. 
The ACCC further considers that substitutability between the CityLink and 
EastLink could be greater when the North East Link is complete. 
109. However, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is unlikely 
to substantially lessen competition between toll roads in the Melbourne region for 
the following reasons.  
Price competition between toll roads  
110. The CityLink and EastLink concession deeds each set the maximum tolls that can 
be charged to road users on these toll roads. As such, post-acquisition, 
Transurban would not have the unilateral ability to increase tolls on either toll 
road. 
111. Further, the ACCC understands that toll prices in Australia are typically set 
significantly below the profit maximising level. The ACCC understands that setting 
tolls below the cap is unlikely to result in a sufficiently greater number of road 
users on the toll road to offset the loss of revenue per road user from the lower toll 
price. As such, the ACCC considers it unlikely that competing operators of 
CityLink and EastLink would reduce tolls below the cap for all road users. This is 
supported by there not having been discounting of tolls on CityLink or EastLink 
despite these toll roads having different owners since EastLink opened to traffic in 
June 2008.  
112. The ACCC has also considered whether it is likely that operators of CityLink or 
EastLink would seek to target motorists for whom the roads are substitutes and 
price discriminate on this basis (e.g. based on their entry/exit location on a toll 
road). However, it appears that Transurban is unlikely to have the ability to 
effectively target those road users for whom CityLink and EastLink are 
substitutes, and therefore is unlikely be able to price discriminate to a significant 
extent. This is consistent with neither operator having price discriminated between 
motorists based on entry/exit locations, despite these toll roads always having 
different operators since EastLink opened.  
113. As such, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is unlikely 
to impact price competition between CityLink and EastLink.  


Transurban – proposed acquisition of Horizon Roads 
 
Page 20 of 20 
Non-price competition between toll roads  
114. Non-price competition between toll road operators could occur in relation to 
maintenance standards of the roads, incident response times and customer 
service.  
115. The CityLink and EastLink concession deeds both include operation, maintenance 
and customer service standards that must be complied with and reported on to 
the Victorian Government. Failure to meet the specified standards results in 
penalties. The ACCC considers that these standards likely cover the most 
significant aspects of non-price competition between toll roads, and ensure that 
standards cannot fall below those specified as appropriate by the Victorian 
Government.  
116. Further, toll road operators could seek to outperform the specified standards in 
the concession deeds in order to compete strongly for motorists for which CityLink 
and EastLink are substitutes. However, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the 
operators are unlikely to have the ability to target those road users for whom 
CityLink and EastLink are substitutes, especially through non-price measures.   
117. As such, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is unlikely 
to impact non-price competition between CityLink and EastLink.  
Invitation for comments  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the above issues. In 
particular, market participants may wish to comment on the following:  
a. the extent to which the CityLink and EastLink toll roads are substitutes for 
motorists on some origin/destinations, including identification of those 
origin/destinations.  
b. the extent to which Transurban and Horizon Roads compete for motorists, or 
subsets of motorists, through price or service standards.  
ACCC's future steps 
118. As noted above, the ACCC invites submissions from market participants on each 
of the issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that 
may be relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. Submissions should be 
emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au by no later than 14 July 2023. 
119. The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
120. The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 7 September 2023. 
However, the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment explaining the 
ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's public announcement. 
