 
 
 
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
tel: (02) 6243 1368 
mergers@accc.gov.au
www.accc.gov.au
Our ref: 
IM-72073 
Contact officer: 
Ninad Kulkarni 
Contact phone: 
03 9910 9531 
28 March 2023 
Dear Interested Party 
Request for submissions: Transurban’s proposed acquisition of Horizon 
Roads  
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
the proposed acquisition of a majority interest in Horizon Roads Pty Ltd by Transurban 
Group (the proposed acquisition). 
Transurban is Australia’s largest toll road operator. In Melbourne, Transurban operates the 
CityLink toll road, and is building and will operate the West Gate Tunnel toll road. Horizon 
Roads, through ConnectEast, operates the EastLink toll road in Melbourne.  
Further details about the parties and the proposed acquisition are provided at Attachment 
A. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact of the proposed acquisition on 
competition. In particular, we are seeking your views on the extent to which the proposed 
acquisition: 
• 
would impact any future competitive processes for toll road development, ownership 
and operation 
• 
would enable Transurban to increase the charges, including administrative fees 
paid by motorists, for toll road usage 
• 
would impact road-on-road competition between the CityLink and EastLink toll 
roads.  
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are 


2 
 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
Please provide your response by 13 April 2023 via email with the title: Submission re: 
Transurban/Horizon Roads – attention Ninad Kulkarni/Tim Byrne. If you require more time 
to respond, please let us know. 
If you would like to arrange a time to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any 
questions about this letter, please contact Ninad Kulkarni on 03 9910 9531 or Tim Byrne on 
03 9658 6440.  
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public 
Mergers Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC treats sensitive information it receives during a merger review as confidential, 
and will not publish your submission. We will not disclose submissions to third parties 
(except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of 
information legislation or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the 
Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, we will notify you in advance where possible so that you have an opportunity to 
be heard. Therefore please clearly indicate if any information you provide is confidential. 
Our Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on 
confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
Daniel McCracken-Hewson 
General Manager  
Merger Investigations


3 
 
Attachment A  
The proposed acquisition  
Transurban is seeking to acquire a majority interest in Horizon Roads through a 
competitive sale process. Horizon Roads, through ConnectEast, holds a concession 
from the State of Victoria to operate the EastLink toll road until November 2043.  
EastLink is a 39-kilometre freeway in South-East Melbourne that runs from Mitcham 
to Frankston. It connects to the Monash, Eastern, Frankston and Peninsula Link 
freeways. Map 1 shows EastLink in relation to other Melbourne toll roads and 
freeways, including Transurban’s CityLink.   
Map 1 – Melbourne toll roads and freeways   
 
Source: Transurban 
Transurban  
Transurban is listed on the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX) and is Australia’s 
largest toll road operator. Transurban’s operations include the development, 
ownership, management and operation of toll roads in Australia and North America. 
In Victoria, Transurban has interests in the following toll roads:  
• 
CityLink  
• 
West Gate Tunnel (under construction).  
In addition to its toll road assets, Transurban provides electronic tolling and tag 
issuing services under the Linkt brand.  
 
Horizon Roads  
Horizon Roads is a private Australian resident company. In addition to being the 
ultimate concession holder of the EastLink toll road, Horizon Roads also provides 
electronic tolling and tag issuing services under the EastLink brand.  


4 
 
Attachment B 
Background  
1. Please describe your business or organisation and explain your interest in the 
proposed acquisition, including any commercial relationship with Transurban or 
Horizon Roads.    
Toll road construction and ownership  
2. Please address the extent to which the proposed acquisition would be likely to 
impact on the ability of Transurban’s rivals to compete for future toll road 
development, ownership and operation in Victoria, having regard to:  
a. the number of toll roads Transurban operates in Victoria 
b. the importance of traffic data, in particular data from toll roads, in competing 
for toll road development, ownership and operation 
c. the extent to which the Victorian government can influence or control future 
competitive processes for toll road concessions 
d. whether there are any other regulatory or other constraints that could limit 
concerns relating to future competitive processes for toll roads.  
Supply of electronic tolling services to motorists   
3. The ACCC understands that there are contractual and regulatory limits on the 
tolls and other fees and charges that can be charged to motorists on Victorian toll 
roads. Please address the extent to which the proposed acquisition would enable 
Transurban to increase any charges, including administration fees paid by 
motorists, for toll road usage. In responding to this question, please comment on: 
a. the extent to which Victorian motorists have the ability to avoid any attempted 
increase in administration fees by their electronic tag or account provider, for 
example by switching to a different provider 
b. the existence of any regulation, contractual arrangements and/or industry 
characteristics that would likely constrain any attempt by Transurban to 
increase administration fees and/or tolls, post-acquisition.  
Road-on-road competition  
4. Please address the extent to which Transurban’s CityLink and Horizon Roads’ 
EastLink compete for motorists, and the extent to which the proposed acquisition 
would lessen competition between these toll roads, including: 
a. any origin/destination combinations CityLink and EastLink provide 
competing routes for 
b. the extent to which free public roads or public transport are alternatives 
for tolled routes  
c. whether there are any regulatory or other constraints that could limit 
concerns relating to road-on-road competition.  
Other  
5. Please address any other competition issues that may be relevant to the ACCC’s 
consideration of the proposed acquisition under section 50 of the Act. 
 
