 
 
 
 
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
tel: (02) 6243 1368 
mergers@accc.gov.au
www.accc.gov.au
Our ref: 
IM-72622 
 
 
 
22 November 2024 
 
Dear Interested Party 
Re: ACCC seeking your views: Schlumberger’s proposed acquisition of ChampionX 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
the proposed acquisition of ChampionX Corporation (ChampionX) by Schlumberger 
Limited (Schlumberger) (the Proposed Acquisition). 
Schlumberger and ChampionX supply oilfield services to the oil and gas exploration and 
production industry globally and in Australia. Further details are provided at Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact that the Proposed Acquisition would 
have on competition. In particular, we are seeking your views on: 
• 
how closely Schlumberger and ChampionX compete in the supply of oilfield 
services in Australia, including artificial lift technologies and production chemical 
technologies 
• 
the availability of alternative suppliers of polycrystalline diamond compact cutters, 
downhole pressure products, and other inputs for the supply of oilfield services 
• 
the extent to which a combined Schlumberger/ChampionX would have the ability 
and incentive to limit rival suppliers’ ability to provide a competitive offering, 
including by increasing prices, reducing the availability of, or research into, critical 
inputs, and 
• 
whether the Proposed Acquisition is likely to increase Schlumberger’s degree of 
integration, enabling it to bundle services like artificial lift technologies with other 
oilfield services. 
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the Proposed Acquisition is in section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
Please provide your response by 6 December 2024 via email with the title: Submission re: 
Schlumberger / ChampionX. If you require more time to respond, please let us know. 


 
2 
 
If you would like to arrange a time to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any 
questions about this letter, please contact mergers@accc.gov.au. 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public Mergers 
Register at ACCC mergers register. 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC treats sensitive information it receives during a merger review as confidential, 
and will not publish your submission. We will not disclose submissions to third parties 
(except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of 
information legislation or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the 
Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, we will notify you in advance where possible so that you have an opportunity 
to be heard. Therefore please clearly indicate if any information you provide is confidential. 
Our Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on 
confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
 
Morag Bond 
General Manager 
Merger Investigations  
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
3 
 
Attachment A – Overview of the merger parties and the Proposed 
Acquisition 
Schlumberger  
Schlumberger is a global oilfield services company headquartered in Texas, United States 
of America (USA). Schlumberger supplies oilfield services to the oil and gas exploration 
and production industry globally and in Australia.  
In Australia, Schlumberger’s activities include the supply of oilfield services throughout the 
lifecycle of an oil or gas well. 
Schlumberger relevantly operates in Australia through its subsidiary Schlumberger 
Australia Pty Ltd, and has offices in South Australia (SA), Queensland (Qld), Western 
Australia (WA), as well as a number of operating bases, including in Perth (WA), Karratha 
(WA), Darwin (Northern Territory), Moomba (SA) and Roma (Qld). 
ChampionX 
ChampionX is a global supplier of oilfield services headquartered in Texas, USA. In 
Australia, ChampionX mainly supplies two types of oilfield services, being production 
and automation technologies (including artificial lift and sensor technologies) and 
production chemical technologies, which are provided during the production phase of 
an oil or gas well. 
ChampionX operates in Australia through its subsidiaries ChampionX Australia Pty 
Ltd and Apergy Artificial Lift Pty Ltd, with offices in WA and Qld. 
ChampionX is a global supplier of downhole pressure products through its 
Quartzdyne business. It is also a supplier of diamond cutters and bearings through 
its subsidiary US Synthetic.  
Areas of overlap 
The parties overlap in the supply of various categories of oilfield services globally. In 
Australia, they overlap in: 
• 
artificial lift technologies, including progressive cavity pumps and sucker rod 
pumps 
• 
production chemical technologies. 
The Proposed Acquisition 
Schlumberger proposes to acquire 100% of the shares in ChampionX in an all-stock 
transaction.  
 
 
 


 
4 
 
Attachment B – List of questions 
1. Please provide a brief description of your business or organisation.  
2. Outline the reasons for your interest in the Proposed Acquisition, including any 
commercial relationship/s with Schlumberger and/or ChampionX. If applicable, 
please identify the service(s) that you supply to, acquire from, or compete with 
Schlumberger and/or ChampionX to provide. 
Artificial lift technologies and production chemical technologies in Australia 
3. Describe how closely Schlumberger and ChampionX compete in the supply of 
artificial lift technologies, particularly progressive cavity pumps and sucker rod 
pumps, and production chemical technologies. 
4. Identify and describe alternative suppliers of artificial lifts and production 
chemical technologies, including with reference to factors such as service 
offering, product range and quality, price, geographic coverage and how closely 
they compete with Schlumberger and/or ChampionX. 
5. If you are a customer that procures artificial lifts and/or production chemical 
technologies for use in Australia: 
a. outline the process by which you procure these products and services, 
and 
b. identify and explain the key factors considered when selecting a supplier, 
including the relevant importance of each factor. 
Polycrystalline diamond compact cutters and bearings, and downhole pressure 
products 
6. Explain how important diamond compact cutters and bearings, and downhole 
pressure products are to your Australian oil and gas exploration and production 
operations. Explain how you have used and/or would use these products in 
Australia. 
7. Identify and describe alternative suppliers of diamond compact cutters and 
bearings, and downhole pressure products, including with reference to factors 
such as product quality, price and how closely they compete with ChampionX. 
8. If you are a customer that procures diamond compact cutters and bearings, and 
downhole pressure products for use in Australia: 
a. outline the process by which you procure these products and services 
b. outline key factors that are taken into account, and the relative weight 
given to each factor, when selecting a supplier, and 
c. whether you acquire these products in Australia or outside of Australia 
and the costs to acquire these products for your Australian operations. 


 
5 
 
9. If the Proposed Acquisition proceeds, outline the potential impact on the supply 
of diamond compact cutters and bearings, and downhole pressure products for 
Australian operations, including with reference to factors such as: 
a. pricing  
b. product availability from alternative suppliers, 
c. the incentive on Schlumberger and any other supplier of such cutters and 
bearings and transducers to continue to enable access to such products 
post-acquisition.  
Inputs into gas oil and gas exploration and production industry 
10. Describe how you acquire products or services that ChampionX currently supply 
that are an input into a product or service that you provide either in Australia or 
globally? 
11. Explain whether you compete with Schlumberger in the supply of any product or 
service that requires a ChampionX product or service as an input. 
12. Are any ChampionX products or services a critical or unique input into one of your 
oilfield products or services? If you could not access a product or service post-
acquisition, are you able to acquire or develop substitute products or services as 
inputs? 
Bundles of products and/or services  
13. How important is an offering that bundles products or services? Explain whether 
Schlumberger would increase its ability to bundle oilfield products and service 
through the proposed acquisition of ChampionX? 
Additional information 
14. Please provide any additional information or comments that you consider relevant to 
the ACCC’s consideration of the Proposed Acquisition. 
