 
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
tel: (02) 6243 1368 
mergers@accc.gov.au
www.accc.gov.au
Our ref: 
IM-71559 
 
Contact officer: 
Soo Sian Koh  
Contact phone: 
03 9290 1904  
8 November 2021 
Dear Interested Party 
Re: Request for submissions: Seven West Media’s proposed acquisition of 
Prime 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
the proposed acquisition of Prime Media Group Limited (Prime) by Seven West Media 
Limited (SWM) (the proposed acquisition). 
SWM is a national media operator whose assets include the Seven television network, 
online news sites and print publications in Western Australia. SWM currently owns 14.9% 
of Prime.  
Prime has regional commercial FTA TV licences in regions of New South Wales, the ACT, 
Victoria, and Western Australia. Further details of SWM and Prime are provided at 
Attachment A.   
As you may be aware, the ACCC has previously conducted a public review of a similar 
proposal in 2019. At that time, the ACCC did not oppose the merger of SWM and Prime. 
Further details of the ACCC’s reasoning in the previous public review are provided in the 
public register entry extract at Attachment B. However, the 2019 transaction did not 
proceed after it was not approved by the requisite majority of Prime shareholders.  
We are seeking your views on whether there have been any material changes in the 
relevant markets since the ACCC’s 2019 review, and the impact the proposed acquisition is 
likely to have on competition. 
In particular, we are interested in understanding any effects on the supply of advertising 
opportunities (either nationally, or in regional markets) and the supply of media content.  
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 


Please provide your response by 5pm on 22 November 2021 via email with the title: 
Submission re: SWM/Prime- attention Soo Sian Koh. If you require more time to respond, 
please let us know. 
If you would like to arrange a time to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any 
questions about this letter, please contact Soo Sian Koh on 03 9290 1904. 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public 
Mergers Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC treats sensitive information it receives during a merger review as confidential, and will 
not publish your submission. We will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our 
advisors/consultants) unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information 
legislation or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition and 
Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, we will notify 
you in advance where possible so that you have an opportunity to be heard. Therefore please 
clearly indicate if any information you provide is confidential. Our Informal Merger Review Process 
Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
Daniel McCracken-Hewson 
General Manager  
Merger Investigations  
 
 
 


 
Attachment A 
Seven West Media  
 
SWM is a national media operator, whose assets include the Seven Network (Seven), 
print/online media platforms in Western Australia. 
Seven operates five FTA TV channels in Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, 
Perth and regional Queensland. This includes: 
a. Seven, the network's main channel;  
b. 7TWO, which has a demographic of people aged 25 years and over;  
c. 7mate, which has a target audience of males aged 16 – 54;  
d. 7flix, which features a schedule of movie favourites and first run US shows; 
and 
e. Racing.com, which is a free-to-air (FTA) TV channel covering Victorian and 
South Australian thoroughbred racing.  
SWM also operates OpenShop as a datacast channel.  
SWM currently holds a 14.9% interest in Prime. 
SWM also has a news website (www.7news.com.au) and a website where viewers 
can stream Seven programs online (www.7plus.com.au).  
In Western Australia, SWM supplies:  
a. The West Australian, a paid newspaper distributed in Perth and regional 
Western Australia from Monday to Friday.  
b. The Weekend West, a paid newspaper distributed in Perth and regional 
Western Australia on Saturday.  
c. The Sunday Times, a paid newspaper distributed in Perth and regional 
Western Australia on Sundays only.  
d. thewest.com.au (TheWest), an online news site supplying news and 
information with a Western Australian emphasis. The site also offers a paid 
digital replica of The West Australian and The Weekend West newspapers for 
subscribers.  
e. Perthnow.com, a free online news site which publishes online general news 
and entertainment content.   
f. Western Australian newspapers distributed predominantly in regional Western 
Australia, which includes the following 19 mastheads: Albany Advertiser; 
Albany Extra; Augusta Margaret River Times; Broome Advertiser; Bunbury 
Herald; South Western Times; Busselton Dunsborough Times; Countryman; 
Geraldton Guardian; Great Southern Herald; Harvey-Waroona Reporter; 
Kalgoorlie Miner; Manjimup-Bridgetown Times; Midwest Times; Narrogin 
Observer; North West Telegraph; Pilbara News; Sound Telegraph; and The 
Kimberley Echo. 


g. free print titles in the Perth metropolitan area distributed as PerthNow 
(previously named the Community Newspaper Group (CNG)) including: 
PerthNow South (Fremantle, Cockburn, Melville, Canning); PerthNow Central 
(Western Suburbs, Central, Southern); PerthNow North (Joondalup, 
Wanneroo, Stirling). PerthNow content is available on the free online news 
site.  
Prime  
Prime is an Australian television network with commercial FTA TV broadcasting licences 
covering regional northern and southern New South Wales, the Australian Capital Territory, 
regional Victoria, the Gold Coast area of Queensland and all of regional Western Australia.  
Prime produces local news content and also supplies Seven’s programming content under 
a syndication program supply arrangement as SWM’s regional affiliate in NSW, Victoria 
and Western Australia. Prime produces a nightly local news bulletin to the following areas: 
• 
Northern Rivers – broadcast to the regional mid-north coast region of New South 
Wales. 
• 
Tamworth/Taree – broadcast to the greater New England region of New South 
Wales. 
• 
Orange/Dubbo – broadcast to the central west region of New South Wales. 
• 
Wagga Wagga – broadcast to the Riverina area of New South Wales. 
• 
Albury/Wodonga – broadcast to the Murray River region and Northern Victoria. 
• 
Regional Western Australia – broadcast to regional Western Australia (including 
broadcast on the west coast VAST satellite service).  
For all other licence areas, Prime produces news and weather updates (for example in 
areas such as Canberra, Newcastle, Wollongong and regional Victoria including Gippsland, 
Ballarat, Bendigo and Mildura). 
In addition, Prime broadcasts Ten Network Holdings programming in Mildura and regional 
Western Australia under a joint venture arrangement with WIN Television. 
 
 


Attachment B 
 
Extract from public mergers register for 2019 proposed transaction 
Accessible at: https://www.accc.gov.au/public-registers/mergers-registers/public-informal-
merger-reviews/seven-west-media-limited-prime-media-group-limited  
Acquirer(s) 
• 
Seven West Media Limited 
Target(s) 
• 
Prime Media Group Limited 
Summary 
Seven West Media Limited (SWM) is proposing to acquire 100% of Prime Media Group 
Limited's (Prime) ordinary shares through a scheme of arrangement (the proposed 
acquisition).  
SWM is separately divesting its existing radio business in Western Australia. 
Market definition 
The ACCC focused its consideration on the likely effects of the proposed acquisition on 
competition in: 
• 
the supply of advertising opportunities 
• 
the supply of media content, including local and regional news and content. 
The ACCC also considered the likely effects of the proposed acquisition on the acquisition 
of media content. 
The ACCC considered the potential effects on a national basis but focused its review on: 
• 
regional Western Australia as a whole (excluding Perth), where Prime broadcasts 
television and SWM publishes state-wide newspaper mastheads; or alternatively 
• 
narrower regional areas in Western Australia, where Prime broadcasts television 
and SWM publishes various regional newspaper mastheads. 
For the purposes of this assessment it was not necessary to reach a concluded position on 
the precise scope of these markets, and the ACCC did not reach a concluded view on 
whether different advertising and content formats (eg. television, newspapers, radio, online, 
etc) are in the same market or separate markets from the perspective of consumers or 
advertisers. The ACCC focused on the degree of constraint these different formats 
exercise on each other.   
SWM also currently operates commercial radio stations in some parts of regional Western 
Australia. SWM is separately divesting these radio assets to a third party due to 
requirements under the Broadcasting Services Act 1992. This divestment is the subject of 
an undertaking to the Australian Communications and Media Authority. The ACCC’s 
assessment of the parties’ overlaps therefore did not include SWM’s radio stations, and the 
ACCC’s decision is made on the basis of that divestment.  


Competition analysis 
The ACCC considered that the proposed acquisition was not likely to substantially lessen 
competition in any market. 
With regard to the supply of advertising opportunities, market feedback suggested that 
advertisers advertising in regional WA have a number of potential options, including 
regional television, newspapers distributed in regional areas, radio, digital and out-of-home 
advertising. These options will be suitable for some but not all advertisers and advertising 
campaigns. 
Information before the ACCC indicates that advertisers conducting state-wide campaigns 
are often larger firms conducting national campaigns and are represented by agencies. 
They will often have other options to reach their audience and some degree of bargaining 
power. Smaller advertisers seeking more localised advertising opportunities may have 
fewer options but generally did not consider Prime’s television network and SWM’s regional 
newspapers as close substitutes for their advertising needs. Reasons for this include 
differences in affordability and format which affect the suitability of Prime’s television or 
SWM’s newspaper advertising for the purpose they wish to achieve. 
With regard to the supply of content, SWM and Prime’s broadcasting is already aligned to a 
large extent due to an existing content supply agreement. However, Prime broadcasts its 
own GWN7 regional news bulletin on weeknights (alongside a broadcast of the Seven 
Perth news bulletin) and provides other updates. 
Market feedback indicated that both the GWN7 news bulletin and SWM regional 
newspapers are important sources of local news and content. However, the ACCC found 
that the content supplied by each party was different, with SWM’s regional newspapers 
generally supplying content on a more localised level and with reduced frequency 
compared to Prime’s television news broadcasts. Further, there are alternative sources of 
news and content with varying degrees of localisation that can be accessed by most 
regional Western Australians via radio, digital and, in some areas, other regional 
newspapers. 
As to the acquisition of content, the ACCC considered that the proposed acquisition is 
unlikely to substantially lessen competition, as Prime currently acquires the vast majority of 
its content from SWM and produces its own news bulletins and updates in-house. 
