 
Page 1 of 18 
 
 
Public Competition Assessment 
4 August 2014 
BlueScope Steel Ltd – proposed acquisition of Fielders 
Australia  
Introduction 
1. 
On 30 January 2014, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission 
(ACCC) announced its decision not to oppose the proposed acquisition of 
certain assets of the Fielders roll forming manufacturing business and other 
associated entities (Fielders) from Hills Holdings Limited by BlueScope Steel Ltd 
(BlueScope) (the proposed acquisition). The ACCC decided that the proposed 
acquisition would be unlikely to have the effect of substantially lessening 
competition in any market in contravention of section 50 of the Competition and 
Consumer Act 2010 (the Act). 
2. 
The ACCC made its decision on the basis of information provided by the merger 
parties, information arising from its market inquiries and other relevant industry 
sources of publicly available and confidential information. This Public 
Competition Assessment outlines the basis on which the ACCC reached its 
decision on the proposed acquisition, subject to confidentiality considerations. 
Public Competition Assessment 
3. 
To provide an enhanced level of transparency and procedural fairness in its 
decision making process, the ACCC issues a Public Competition Assessment for 
all transaction proposals where: 
 
a proposed acquisition is opposed; 
 
a proposed acquisition is subject to enforceable undertakings; 
 
the merger parties seek such disclosure; or 
 
a proposed acquisition is not opposed but raises important issues that the 
ACCC considers should be made public. 
4. 
This Public Competition Assessment has been issued because the proposed 
acquisition is considered to raise issues of public interest in relation to the steel 
industry.  
5. 
By issuing Public Competition Assessments, the ACCC aims to provide the 
public with a better understanding of the ACCC's analysis of various markets and 
the associated merger and competition issues.  


 
Page 2 of 18 
 
6. 
Each Public Competition Assessment is specific to the particular transaction 
under review by the ACCC. While some transaction proposals may involve the 
same or related markets, it should not be assumed that the analysis and 
decision outlined in one Public Competition Assessment will be conclusive of the 
ACCC’s view in respect of other transaction proposals, as each matter will be 
considered on its own merits. 
7. 
Public Competition Assessments outline the ACCC’s principal reasons for 
forming views on a proposed acquisition at the time the decision was made. As 
such Public Competition Assessments may not definitively identify and explain 
all issues that the ACCC considers arise from a proposed acquisition. Further, 
the ACCC’s decisions generally involve consideration of both non-confidential 
and confidential information provided by the merger parties and market 
participants. In order to maintain the confidentiality of particular information, 
Public Competition Assessments do not contain any confidential information or 
its sources. 
8. 
This Public Competition Assessment outlines the circumstances and 
assessment at the time of the ACCC decision. Events that have occurred post 
the ACCC decision that are relevant to this matter are clearly identified. 
The parties 
The acquirer: BlueScope  
9. 
BlueScope is a large vertically integrated steel manufacturer and distributor 
listed on the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX). 
10. 
BlueScope is the only manufacturer in Australia of steel slab through its Port 
Kembla steelworks. The steelworks has a capacity of 2.6 million tonnes per 
annum. Through its subsidiary Coated and Industrial Products Australia (CIPA), 
BlueScope processes steel slab into a range of steel products classified as ‘flat 
steel’ products. Further information on the flat steel products supply chain is 
provided below. 
11. 
In addition to CIPA, BlueScope has a number of businesses at various levels of 
the flat steel supply chain, including in steel products distribution and businesses 
carrying out additional manufacturing functions. 
Lysaght 
12. 
Relevant to the proposed acquisition is the BlueScope subsidiary Lysaght. 
Lysaght manufactures roll formed steel products. Further information on roll 
formed steel products is provided below. Lysaght has approximately 30 
manufacturing and sales sites across Australia. 
The target: Fielders  
13. 
Fielders is a subsidiary of Hills Holding Limited (Hills). Hills is also listed on the 
ASX.  
14. 
Fielders manufactures roll formed steel products, a process commonly referred 
to as ‘roll forming’. Fielders’ main roll forming operation is centred at Mile End in 
South Australia. It also has manufacturing facilities at Wangara in Western 
Australia, Campbellfield in Victoria and Minto in New South Wales, and sales 
sites located throughout Australia. 
 
 


 
Page 3 of 18 
 
15. 
Fielders also operates downstream shed building distribution and retail 
businesses which utilise roll formed steel products. These are its Endurance 
Structures and Fielders Centenary businesses. 
Industry Background  
Flat steel products  
16. 
The steel supply chain in Australia is complex with a number of functional levels, 
numerous types of steel products, multiple inputs into various manufacturing 
processes and a global dynamic through imports and exports. 
17. 
Steel producers use inputs such as iron ore, coal and steel scrap to form raw 
steel either through using a basic oxygen furnace, or an electric arc furnace. 
Raw steel is then passed through a casting machine which moulds and solidifies 
the steel into semi-finished steel products known as ‘slab’, ‘billets’ or ‘blooms’. 
Steel slab, billets and blooms then undergo further processing to produce a 
range of ‘flat’ or ‘long’ steel products. It is flat steel products which are relevant to 
the proposed acquisition. 
18. 
To produce flat products steel slab is reheated and passed through a rolling mill 
to produce Hot Rolled Coil (HRC) or a form of steel plate. HRC may be subject 
to further processing into either coil plate or Cold Rolled Coil (CRC). In particular, 
CRC is produced by passing HRC through rolling mills at low temperature to 
reduce thickness. This process increases the strength of the steel and enables it 
to be rolled into coil for transport and storage. 
19. 
Relevant to the proposed acquisition is the further processing of CRC into either 
metallic coated coil or painted coil. Metallic coated coil is produced by uncoiling 
the CRC and applying a metallic coating. The most common coatings are zinc 
(galvanised) and aluminium zinc. Painted coil is produced by painting either CRC 
or metallic coated coil. 
20. 
As noted above, BlueScope CIPA is the only Australian manufacturer of flat steel 
products. The other source of flat steel products is via imports, either directly 
from an overseas steel mill or through an Australian based import trader. 
21. 
Figure 1 provides a broad representation of the place of roll forming in the flat 
steel products supply chain which is relevant to the proposed acquisition. 


 
Page 4 of 18 
 
Figure 1: Flat steel products supply chain 
 
Roll forming 
22. 
Lysaght and Fielders are roll formers. Roll forming is the manufacturing process 
where steel coil inputs are fed through contoured roller die machinery to form 
‘roll formed’ steel in a particular profile which can then be cut to a particular 
length. 
23. 
The steel inputs used in the roll forming manufacturing process are galvanised 
coil, aluminium zinc coated coil, and painted coil. Roll formed steel products 
include roofing, walling, guttering, fencing and steel formwork. In most cases for 
each product category specific machinery would be required to produce the 
relevant products. 
24. 
Roll formers in Australia source steel coil inputs predominantly from BlueScope 
CIPA and in limited instances through imports or, in the case of painted coil, from 
smaller domestic manufacturers. Imports are sourced either via locally based 
traders or directly from overseas steel mills.  
25. 
The type of roll formed steel products supplied, and the end uses they are 
ultimately suitable for, will depend on: 
 
the gauge (thickness) and width of the steel coil being roll formed; 
 
the strength grade of the steel coil; 
 
the complexity of the cross-section required for the roll formed product (the 
greater the complexity, the more rollers required); and 
 
the speed at which the steel coil is fed through the roll former (the lighter 
the gauge and the less complex the cross-section, the faster the speed at 
which the steel can be fed through the machine). 
26. 
Roll formed steel products are used in all types of building structures (residential, 
commercial and industrial). Customers of roll formers include builders, steel 
fabricators, roof installers, shed manufacturers, fencing contractors, distributors 


 
Page 5 of 18 
 
and other resellers such as hardware retailers or specialist shed retailers. 
Customers often source roll formed steel products from multiple suppliers with 
purchases typically being made on a project basis rather than under long term or 
exclusive supply arrangements. 
27. 
There are five roll formers that operate nationally: Lysaght, Fielders, Stramit, 
Stratco and Metroll. In addition, there are roll formers operating in certain 
Australian states, such as Revolution Roofing (South Australia and Western 
Australia) and Combined Metal Industries (Western Australia). 
28. 
Figure 2 provides a broad representation of the roll formed steel products supply 
chain and the proposed acquisition’s place in the supply chain. 
Figure 2: Roll formed steel products supply chain
  
 
Steel formwork 
29. 
The ACCC’s review identified that the manufacture and supply of steel formwork 
(also called ‘structural decking’ and sometimes ‘steel flooring’) was an area of 
significant overlap between Lysaght and Fielders.  
30. 
Steel formwork is a roll formed product which is used in the construction of 
suspended concrete slabs in buildings - generally multi-storey commercial 
buildings. Steel formwork is used to create a deck upon which the concrete is 
poured. 
31. 
In concrete slab construction, formwork contractors or construction companies 
utilise either steel formwork or, more often, timber formwork depending on the 
project and design. 
32. 
The use of steel formwork has advantages over the use of timber formwork in 
terms of reduced construction time, the requirement for fewer support structures 
(e.g. props), and it is less labour intensive. Steel formwork has a higher up-front 
cost than timber formwork and is not reusable. Timber formwork is able to be 
reused although it is more labour intensive and can add to construction time. 


 
Page 6 of 18 
 
33. 
In addition, it is possible for steel formwork to offer some ancillary permanent 
structural support and this is actively marketed by steel formwork suppliers. 
Through utilising the structural properties of steel formwork, cost savings may be 
made on the amount of concrete that needs to be poured and/or the amount of 
reinforcing mesh necessary within the concrete slab. 
Other industry participants 
34. 
As mentioned above, there are five major national roll formers. These roll 
formers generally offer a comparable range of products and have manufacturing 
facilities in all/almost all Australian states. In addition to Fielders and Lysaght, 
these are Stramit, Metroll and Stratco. 
35. 
Of these major national roll formers, only Lysaght, Fielders and Stramit supply 
steel formwork. 
Stramit 
36. 
Stramit is a subsidiary of Fletcher Building Limited. It manufactures roll formed 
steel products for a range of applications, including steel formwork. Stramit 
delivers these products, along with complementary products and services, 
through a national network of manufacturing and distribution centres. 
Metroll 
37. 
Metroll produces roll formed steel products for most applications, with 
manufacturing plants in all Australian states. Metroll does not supply steel 
formwork. 
Stratco 
38. 
Stratco is a manufacturer of a large range of roll formed steel products, with 
plants in all states in Australia (except Tasmania). Stratco also has its own 
downstream retail outlets for the supply of roll formed steel products such as 
sheds. Stratco does not supply steel formwork. 
Other roll formers 
39. 
There are numerous other smaller roll formers, which focus on the supply of a 
smaller range of products and which do not supply nationally. These include roll 
formers such as Revolution Roofing, Apex, Ace Gutters and Combined Metal 
Industries. 
40. 
Additionally, there are three roll formers which focus on the supply of steel 
formwork products. These include steel formwork specialists Formdeck 
Constructions and Formdeck Australia (both based in Victoria), and Big River 
Timber (which is based in New South Wales and is primarily a supplier of timber 
products).   
The proposed transaction 
41. 
On 19 August 2013, BlueScope publicly announced agreements to acquire the 
Fielders and Orrcon Steel businesses from Hills. Both acquisitions were 
conditional on ACCC clearance.  
42. 
The ACCC also publicly reviewed the Orrcon Steel proposed acquisition and 
announced on 5 December 2013 that it would not oppose the acquisition. The 


 
Page 7 of 18 
 
ACCC has also published a Public Competition Assessment in respect of the 
Orrcon Steel review.  
Review timeline 
43. 
The following table outlines the timeline of key events in this matter.  
Date  
Event  
04-Sept-2013 
ACCC commenced review under the Merger Process 
Guidelines. Market inquiries commenced. 
25-Sept-2013  Closing date for submissions from interested parties.  
15-Oct-2013  
Former proposed decision date of 31 October 2013 delayed 
pending receipt of further information from the merger parties. 
ACCC timeline suspended.  
14-Nov-2013  
ACCC received further information from the merger parties. 
ACCC timeline recommenced.  
05-Dec-2013  
ACCC published a Statement of Issues outlining preliminary 
competition concerns. 
17-Dec-2013 
ACCC requested further information from the merger parties. 
20-Dec-2013 
Closing date for submissions relating to Statement of Issues. 
16-Jan-2014 
ACCC received further information from the merger parties. 
30-Jan-2014 
ACCC announced it would not oppose the proposed 
acquisition. 
Statement of Issues 
44. 
The ACCC issued a Statement of Issues (SoI) on 5 December 2013. In the SoI, 
the ACCC identified two issues which raised competition concerns and which 
required further analysis, and two issues which it considered were unlikely to 
raise competition concerns. 
45. 
The ACCC considered that the proposed acquisition may raise concerns in 
relation to BlueScope’s ability and incentive to significantly foreclose rival roll 
formers’ access to steel coil inputs. The ACCC noted that BlueScope did not 
appear to currently engage in a foreclosure strategy, and it was not clear that the 
proposed acquisition would significantly alter BlueScope’s incentive to engage in 
such a strategy. The ACCC sought further information on this point. 
46. 
The ACCC also considered that the proposed acquisition may raise concerns in 
relation to the supply of steel formwork on either a national or state basis. The 
ACCC noted that the merger parties are the main suppliers of steel formwork 
nationally and in most Australian states, and that the proposed acquisition would 
result in a significant increase in market concentration. However, the ACCC 
recognised that the merged firm may be constrained by alternative suppliers, the 
potential entry of roll formers currently not manufacturing steel formwork and in 
some cases substitution possibilities with timber formwork. 


 
Page 8 of 18 
 
47. 
Finally, the ACCC identified that the supply of roll formed steel products (other 
than steel formwork) and the potential foreclosure of rival distributors’ access to 
customers, were issues which were unlikely to raise competition concerns, but 
the ACCC invited further submissions on these issues. 
Market inquiries  
48. 
The ACCC conducted market inquiries with a range of interested parties, 
including distributors of steel coil, rival roll formers, customers of roll formed steel 
products and industry associations. 
Future with/without the proposed acquisition 
49. 
Section 50 of the Act prohibits mergers or acquisitions that would have the effect 
or be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
In assessing a proposed acquisition pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC 
considers the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future competitive 
environment post-acquisition if the acquisition proceeds (the “with” position) to 
the likely future competitive environment if the acquisition does not proceed (the 
“without” position) to determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in any relevant market. 
50. 
The ACCC assessed the proposed acquisition against the status quo. Fielders 
had been the subject of a sale process. In the event that BlueScope did not 
acquire Fielders, it is likely that Hills would have retained the business or sold 
Fielders to another independent party or parties. 
Areas of overlap  
51. 
Lysaght and Fielders’ primary overlap was in the manufacture and supply of roll 
formed steel products. As outlined below, this overlap was most relevant in 
South Australia and Western Australia, where Lysaght and Fielders each had a 
strong presence. 
52. 
Lysaght and Fielders also overlapped in the supply of steel formwork. The 
ACCC’s review of steel formwork was focussed in particular on South Australia 
where Fielders accounted for a large majority of steel formwork sales, and 
Lysaght the remainder. 
Relevant Markets 
53. 
The ACCC considered the proposed acquisition in the context of the following 
markets:  
 
the national markets for the supply of the following inputs to roll formers 
and other users: 
o 
painted steel coil (painted coil); 
o 
steel coil coated with a zinc/aluminium alloy or 
zinc/aluminium/magnesium alloy (aluminium zinc coil);  
o 
galvanised steel coil (galvanised coil); 
(collectively, steel coil inputs) 
 
 
state markets for the manufacture and supply of roll formed steel products 
(excluding steel formwork) in each of: 


 
Page 9 of 18 
 
o 
South Australia/Northern Territory; 
o 
Western Australia; 
o 
New South Wales/Australian Capital Territory; 
o 
Victoria/Tasmania; 
o 
Queensland; and 
 
either a national market or state-based markets for the manufacture and 
supply of steel formwork. 
54. 
An overview of these markets is provided below.   
Supply of steel coil inputs 
Product dimension 
55. 
The ACCC defined separate markets for the supply of painted steel coil, 
aluminium zinc steel coil and galvanised coil inputs. These inputs are supplied to 
a wide range of distributors, manufacturers (including roll formers) and other end 
users.  
56. 
Steel coil inputs utilised by roll formers are differentiated based on chemical 
properties and other factors which result in specific mechanical properties or 
grades. These grades are also supplied in numerous thickness and width 
measurements. Painted coil is further differentiated by colour. 
57. 
The ACCC recognised that the potential for switching between steel coil inputs is 
limited from the perspective of roll formers. To manufacture specific roll formed 
steel products (e.g. residential roofing products), roll formers require specific 
steel coil inputs. For example, a roll former would not generally be able to 
substitute galvanised coil for painted coil in the manufacture of residential roofing 
products, due to customer preference for painted coil. 
58. 
However, suppliers of steel coil inputs, such as BlueScope CIPA and overseas 
steel mills, generally utilise similar manufacturing processes and equipment to 
supply the full range of steel coil inputs. Further, roll formers often contract to 
purchase a wide range of products from a single supplier. Therefore, the ACCC 
did not define narrower markets according to the grades or measurements of 
steel coil inputs. 
59. 
The ACCC also considered whether to define a separate market for BlueScope’s 
COLORBOND painted steel coil product. Roll formers consider COLORBOND a 
‘must have’ product due to strong customer preferences for its use, particularly in 
residential applications. However, the ACCC considered that it was preferable to 
take account of the strong brand loyalty for COLORBOND products within a 
broader market for painted coil products.  
Geographic dimension 
60. 
The ACCC considers that the markets for the supply of steel coil inputs are 
national. BlueScope CIPA and other suppliers, such as import traders, supply roll 
formers and other users across Australia. 
Supply of roll formed steel products 
Product dimension 
61. 
Roll formers utilise steel coil inputs to manufacture products in the following 
categories: 


 
Page 10 of 18 
 
 
roofing and walling, including steel sheeting and cladding; 
 
rainwater products, such as downpipes and gutters; 
 
purlins and structural sections (structural components that underpin, for 
example,  roofing and walling products); 
 
fencing;  
 
steel formwork; and 
 
packaged products, such as carports, patios and sheds.  
62. 
The ACCC considered whether it was appropriate to define a separate product 
market for each category of roll formed steel products. From a customer’s 
perspective there is little scope to substitute a product having one function with 
another. For example, a customer requiring a roofing product would not be able 
to utilise a fencing product. 
63. 
However, with the exception of steel formwork, discussed below, the ACCC’s 
market inquiries indicated that, from a supply perspective, roll formers substitute 
between the different categories with relative ease. Production of the different 
categories of products employs similar manufacturing processes, requires similar 
expertise, and while additional machinery may be needed in some cases, the 
incremental investment is typically not significant.  
64. 
Further, the merger parties and other main suppliers each produce and supply a 
wide range of product categories. As a result, the ACCC defined a broad product 
market for roll formed steel products with the exception of steel formwork. 
65. 
The ACCC noted that some non-steel products can be used as substitutes for 
roll formed steel products. In particular, concrete/slate roof tiles appear to be 
used as an alternative to roll formed roofing products depending on cost, 
architect, builder or consumer preference, and the prevalence of the material in 
the particular area. However, the ACCC concluded that the competitive 
constraint offered by inter-material substitution is generally weak. Customers of 
roll formed steel products would not generally switch to alternatives in the event 
of a small but significant price increase. Accordingly the ACCC adopted a market 
definition limited to roll formed steel products. 
Geographic dimension 
66. 
The ACCC’s market inquiries indicated that the supply of roll formed steel 
products tends to be state based. Roll formers generally operate production 
facilities close to their customers to meet local demand, and interstate supply of 
roll formed steel products is generally limited due to freight costs, short lead 
times, customer preference for local supply and the potential for damage during 
freight. With the exception of some residential sheds, roll formed steel products 
are generally not imported. 
Supply of steel formwork 
Product dimension 
67. 
The ACCC considered that there is a separate market for steel formwork that is 
distinct from other roll formed steel products.  
68. 
Unlike other roll formed steel products, there are additional barriers to a 
manufacturer commencing the supply of steel formwork. In particular, there are 
higher costs involved in developing, testing and producing a steel formwork 
product that are not present to the same extent with other roll formed steel 


 
Page 11 of 18 
 
products. In addition, market inquiries indicated that there is a lengthy timeframe 
involved in gaining customer acceptance for a steel formwork product.  
69. 
Due to the limited potential for suppliers of other roll formed steel products to 
switch to the production of steel formwork without investing in new machinery 
and testing, the ACCC concluded that the supply of steel formwork is a separate 
market to the supply of other roll formed steel products.  
70. 
As explained in the Industry Background section, steel formwork’s primary 
purpose is to provide an elevated base on which to pour concrete, but on 
occasion it has the ancillary function of providing a permanent structural support 
to the building in question. This allows less concrete to be poured and/or less 
reinforcement of the concrete than would be possible without the formwork. As a 
consequence, there is a distinction between steel formwork that is used to have 
a permanent structural purpose (referred to as ‘composite action formwork’) and 
steel formwork that is not used or intended to have a permanent structural 
purpose (referred to as ‘lost formwork’). 
71. 
The ACCC considered whether there are distinct product markets for composite 
action formwork and lost formwork. The ACCC understands that composite 
action formwork requires a particular ‘wave/embossing’ to enable it to properly 
bind with concrete, but this element is used in almost all steel formwork products 
manufactured in Australia, and only minor alterations to machinery are required 
by the manufacturer to produce this function. Steel formwork manufacturers 
commonly sell identical products for each function, generally at the same price, 
and often are not aware for which purpose the customer is utilising the product.  
72. 
As a result, the ACCC determined that steel formwork that is used for composite 
action is a segment of the overall supply of steel formwork rather than a distinct 
product market. 
Timber formwork substitution 
73. 
The ACCC’s market inquiries indicated that some market participants consider 
that timber formwork is substitutable with steel formwork. From a demand 
perspective, the ACCC was aware of instances where construction companies or 
formwork contractors would switch between steel formwork and timber formwork 
based on changes in price, construction timeframes and labour availability.  
74. 
The ACCC noted though that it is not possible for steel formwork customers to 
switch to timber formwork when the steel formwork is intended to have a 
permanent structural purpose i.e. composite action formwork. Based on 
information provided to the ACCC it is estimated that steel formwork is used as 
composite action formwork in approximately 20 – 25% of projects, but that these 
projects typically involve higher volumes and values than lost formwork.  
75. 
The ACCC took a conservative approach and adopted a narrow product market 
for the supply of steel formwork. However, the ACCC considered that timber 
formwork does place some competitive constraint on the supply of steel 
formwork in certain circumstances. This issue is explored further below in the 
Competition Assessment. 
Geographic dimension 
76. 
The ACCC considered whether the supply of steel formwork, in contrast to the 
supply of other roll formed steel products, is a national market. While interstate 
supply of steel formwork is more common than for other roll formed product 
categories, it represents a small proportion of overall steel formwork sales, with 


 
Page 12 of 18 
 
contracts generally being won by steel formwork suppliers located in the relevant 
state.   
77. 
The ACCC did not consider it necessary to form a concluded view as to whether 
the supply of steel formwork is more appropriately defined as state-based or 
national. The ACCC considered the potential competition effects of the proposed 
acquisition on both state-based and national markets. To the extent that 
interstate supply plays a role in state-based markets, the ACCC examined this 
as a potential constraint in its competition assessment. 
Competition Assessment 
78. 
BlueScope is currently the major Australian producer of steel coil inputs, and the 
acquisition of the Fielders roll forming business increased its vertical integration 
into the downstream manufacture and supply of roll formed steel products.  
79. 
The ACCC’s review found that BlueScope was likely to already have market 
power in the supply of painted coil inputs to roll formers. The ACCC’s review also 
identified extensive rebate arrangements in place between BlueScope CIPA and 
roll formers, which require roll formers to source a high overall threshold of steel 
coil inputs from BlueScope in order to obtain the rebates. However, these rebate 
arrangements and BlueScope’s market power in the supply of painted coil inputs 
existed prior to the acquisition of Fielders. The acquisition is unlikely to increase 
any ability or incentive for BlueScope to engage in anti-competitive bundling. 
80. 
The ACCC therefore focussed on two potential theories of harm arising from 
BlueScope’s increased vertical integration: 
 
whether BlueScope would have the ability and incentive to leverage any 
market power in the supply of steel coil inputs to raise rival manufacturers’ 
costs by significantly foreclosing the supply of these inputs, potentially 
reducing competition for the supply of roll formed steel products; and 
 
whether BlueScope may have market power in the relevant roll formed 
markets that it could use to significantly foreclose competing suppliers’ (i.e. 
import traders) access to customers, potentially resulting in a substantial 
lessening of competition in the supply of steel coil inputs. 
81. 
In addition, BlueScope, through Lysaght, overlapped with Fielders in the 
manufacture and supply of roll formed steel products, including steel formwork. 
The ACCC considered whether the aggregation of BlueScope and Fielders 
would provide the merged firm with the ability to unilaterally increase the price 
and/or decrease service associated with the supply of: 
 
steel formwork products on a national or state basis; and 
 
roll formed steel products in each geographic market. 
82. 
These theories are considered below in the order that they appeared in the SoI. 
Foreclosure of rival roll formers’ access to steel coil inputs 
83. 
The ACCC considered whether the proposed acquisition would result in 
BlueScope having the ability and incentive to significantly foreclose rival roll 
formers’ access to steel coil inputs, or to supply them on discriminatory terms 
(such as price, service or other terms of supply). Such conduct would raise rival 
roll formers’ costs. 


 
Page 13 of 18 
 
BlueScope’s ability to foreclose 
84. 
The ACCC concluded that BlueScope was likely to already have market power in 
the supply of painted coil inputs to roll formers, prior to the acquisition of 
Fielders. The ACCC’s market inquiries identified that market participants 
generally considered that alternative painted coil products, including imports, are 
not a strong substitute for BlueScope’s COLORBOND painted steel coil products 
utilised in residential applications.  
85. 
End-use customers of roll formed steel products, such as builders often do not 
accept non-COLORBOND products for residential applications and architects 
and/or engineers often specify the use of COLORBOND in construction plans. 
Also, unlike other steel coil inputs, BlueScope’s pricing of the key COLORBOND 
product utilised in residential roll formed steel products is not affected by the 
import prices of alternative painted coil products 
86. 
As a consequence, the ACCC’s assessment of the potential for the proposed 
acquisition to raise rival roll formers’ costs focussed on the extent to which the 
proposed acquisition would alter BlueScope’s incentive to foreclose supply of 
steel coil inputs or to supply them to rival roll formers on discriminatory terms, as 
discussed below.  
BlueScope’s incentive to foreclose 
87. 
BlueScope is already vertically integrated into roll forming through its subsidiary 
Lysaght. The ACCC concluded that BlueScope CIPA does not currently 
discriminate against roll forming competitors of Lysaght by offering materially 
less favourable prices or other terms for the supply of roll forming inputs than 
those on which it supplies these inputs to Lysaght.  
88. 
The ACCC received mixed feedback from the market as to whether BlueScope’s 
incentive to engage in a foreclosure strategy would increase as a result of the 
proposed acquisition. While some parties expressed concern that BlueScope 
would have an increased incentive to engage in a (partial) foreclosure strategy 
by increasing the price of steel coil inputs, others submitted that the proposed 
acquisition would not alter BlueScope’s incentives and it would continue to 
supply its downstream rivals with steel coil inputs at competitive prices and 
terms. 
89. 
The ACCC found that the proposed acquisition would result in a significant 
increase in BlueScope’s share of roll forming volumes in South Australia and 
Western Australia. The ACCC considered whether the increase in the size of 
BlueScope’s roll forming business in Western Australia and South Australia 
could increase its incentive to engage in such a foreclosure strategy, as 
BlueScope would have a higher sales base over which to enjoy higher margins 
should it be successful in raising its competitors’ prices and/or because it would 
capture a greater share of customers lost by its rivals  
90. 
The ACCC considered this potential competition issue was less likely to be a 
concern in other Australian states, such as Victoria and New South Wales, 
where Fielders had a relatively small market share. 
91. 
The ACCC concluded that BlueScope’s incentive structure appeared to be 
aligned to maintaining competitive supply to rival roll formers, even in states 
where its market share increased significantly, due to the following factors: 
 
the fixed nature of production at BlueScope’s Port Kembla steelworks; 


 
Page 14 of 18 
 
 
the greater profit margins BlueScope earns on the supply of steel coil 
inputs to roll formers compared to the margins on its supply of roll formed 
steel products; and 
 
BlueScope’s current national pricing strategy. 
92. 
The ACCC considered that BlueScope would maintain strong economic 
incentives to maximise domestic sales volumes of steel coil inputs due to its raw 
steel production volume at its Port Kembla steelworks being fixed. The nature of 
steel production means that it is not possible to lower raw steel output without 
shutting down the blast furnace(s). As BlueScope’s Port Kembla steelworks 
currently has one furnace in operation it produces a fixed volume of steel slab 
per year which is either transformed into steel products to be supplied 
domestically or exported.  
93. 
BlueScope earns greater margins on the supply of domestic steel products, 
including steel coil inputs, than it does through exporting steel slab. Further, it 
earns greater margins supplying steel coil inputs to roll formers than it does on 
Lysaght’s supply of roll formed steel products. 
94. 
Furthermore, BlueScope generally prices its steel coil inputs, including painted 
coil inputs, on a national basis when supplying to the large national roll formers. 
As a consequence, were it to attempt to exploit any increased incentive to 
foreclose in states where it would experience a significant increase in market 
share, such as South Australia and Western Australia, it would need to alter its 
pricing strategy. Any such change in pricing may be defeated by national roll 
formers sourcing inputs from interstate. 
Conclusion – foreclosure of rival roll formers’ access to steel coil inputs 
95. 
The ACCC considered that BlueScope already had market power in respect of 
the supply of painted coil inputs to roll formers. However, the ACCC concluded 
that the proposed acquisition would not increase this level of market power. 
Further, the ACCC was of the view that the proposed acquisition was unlikely to 
materially increase BlueScope’s incentive to foreclose rival roll formers’ access 
to inputs. 
96. 
The ACCC found that BlueScope does not currently discriminate against rival roll 
formers, including in states where Lysaght currently has a high market share and 
BlueScope’s incentives are likely to be aligned with maintaining competitive 
supply to rivals. 
Supply of steel formwork 
97. 
The ACCC considered whether the horizontal aggregation of Lysaght and 
Fielders would result in a substantial lessening of competition in the supply of 
steel formwork on either a national or individual state basis. 
98. 
The ACCC’s market inquiries identified that the merger parties are the two 
largest suppliers of steel formwork nationally and in all states with the exception 
of Victoria. The proposed acquisition would result in a significant increase in 
market concentration in all states, and particularly in New South Wales, Western 
Australia and South Australia. 
Alternative suppliers 
99. 
Based on information provided by market participants and the merger parties, 
the ACCC determined that Lysaght and Fielders were close competitors in the 
supply of steel formwork. Some market participants considered that Fielders and 


 
Page 15 of 18 
 
Lysaght were particularly close competitors in the supply of steel formwork used 
as composite action formwork.  
100. Nevertheless, the ACCC’s market inquiries identified alternative suppliers which 
would competitively constrain the merged firm, particularly in certain states.  
101. The presence of alternative suppliers of steel formwork varies depending on the 
state in question, with Stramit the only alternative supplier with a national 
presence (with the exception of South Australia). The ACCC’s market inquiries 
indicated that Stramit, with its Condeck steel formwork product, would continue 
to provide a viable alternative to the merged firm in the states it supplies 
including when steel formwork is utilised as composite action formwork. 
102. In addition to Stramit, there are a small number of alternative suppliers in some 
states. In New South Wales, Big River Timber appears to be a viable alternative. 
In Victoria, both Formdeck Construction and Formdeck Australia appear to be 
strong competitors and are used regularly by large construction companies in 
significant developments. Further, these alternative suppliers’ steel formwork 
products are accepted as comparable or fit for purpose when used as composite 
action formwork and are regularly supplied to customers as an alternative to 
BlueScope and Fielders.  
103. The ACCC considered that in these relevant states the alternative suppliers 
would provide an effective competitive constraint on the merged firm. 
South Australia and interstate supply 
104. On a state market basis, the ACCC considered in detail the potential competition 
issues in South Australia. Fielders accounted for the large majority of steel 
formwork sales in South Australia with Lysaght comprising the remainder. 
Lysaght does not manufacture steel formwork in South Australia and supplies 
customers by transporting products from its Melbourne site.   
105. While Lysaght supplies relatively small volumes of steel formwork into South 
Australia, it appears that Lysaght has been active in competing for projects. 
Alternative providers based in other states appear to supply into South Australia 
on limited occasions. 
106. Based on the ACCC’s assessment of transport costs and examples of steel 
formwork manufacturers supplying interstate customers (in particular, Lysaght 
into South Australia) the ACCC concluded that were the merged firm to attempt 
to increase price then rival suppliers would consider supply into South Australia. 
This would particularly be the case with larger construction projects where the 
volumes of steel formwork involved would result in savings per tonne in terms of 
transport costs. 
107. Further, as explored below, the likelihood of entry from national roll formers and 
the ability of steel formwork customers to substitute with timber formwork in a 
proportion of cases would continue to provide a degree of competitive constraint 
on the merged firm in South Australia. 
Likelihood of entry 
108. The ACCC considered that the threat of new entry, particularly from national roll 
formers, is likely to place some constraint on the merged firm. 
109. Market inquiries on the barriers to entry to supplying steel formwork were mixed. 
The costs involved in developing, testing and producing a steel formwork product 
are higher than other roll formed steel products. This is particularly the case with 
supplying steel formwork that is accepted by most customers as being suitable 


 
Page 16 of 18 
 
for use as composite action formwork. However, the ACCC was aware of 
instances where small steel formwork suppliers have entered based on a low 
cost model without the product development costs incurred by larger roll formers.  
110. The ACCC considered that the costs of entry would not be prohibitive for 
national large roll formers such as Metroll and Stratco. In particular, these roll 
formers would be able to leverage off established facilities, product development 
capabilities, staffing and customer awareness to credibly threaten entry in the 
event the merged firm attempted to increase prices and/or decrease service. 
These national roll formers would likely represent a credible threat of entry and 
provide a competitive constraint on the merged firm. 
Constraint provided by timber formwork 
111. The ACCC’s market inquiries identified that timber formwork may be used as an 
alternative to steel formwork when it is not intended to have a permanent 
structural purpose. The ACCC’s market inquiries indicated that formwork 
installers sometimes switch between timber formwork and steel formwork based 
on price, availability of labour and the construction project in question. Some 
customers submitted that in most cases, in the event of a price rise from the 
merged firm, they would switch to timber formwork. Accordingly the ACCC 
recognised that the availability of timber formwork would exercise some 
competitive constraint on the merged firm’s supply of steel formwork. 
Conclusion – supply of steel formwork 
112. The ACCC noted that Lysaght and Fielders are the main suppliers of steel 
formwork on a national and state basis and the proposed acquisition would 
remove Fielders as a significant alternative supplier for steel formwork 
customers. However, the ACCC concluded that this would be unlikely to result in 
a substantial lessening of competition. 
113. The ACCC considered that the merged firm is likely to be constrained in the 
supply of steel formwork by:  
 
the presence of alternative suppliers, in particular Stramit, and in most 
states smaller locally based suppliers; 
 
a credible threat of entry from other nationally based roll formers; and 
 
a degree of inter-material substitution with timber formwork.  
Supply of roll formed steel products 
114. The ACCC considered whether the aggregation of Lysaght and Fielders would 
enable the merged firm to unilaterally raise prices or decrease customer service 
in the supply of roll formed steel products other than steel formwork.  
115. The ACCC considered the effect of the proposed acquisition on state-based 
markets. Market inquiries generally identified that customers were not concerned 
with the effect of the proposed acquisition on the supply of roll formed steel 
products in Queensland, New South Wales and Victoria/Tasmania. In these 
states, Fielders currently has a relatively small presence.  
116. However, the proposed acquisition would significantly increase market 
concentration in South Australia and Western Australia, as Fielders is one of the 
largest suppliers in both these states. 


 
Page 17 of 18 
 
Alternative suppliers 
117. Nevertheless, the ACCC determined that a number of competitors would 
constrain the merged firm in South Australia and Western Australia. Some 
customers of roll formed steel products in these states submitted to the ACCC 
that Lysaght and Fielders are each other’s closest competitors. However, the 
ACCC identified multiple alternative manufacturers that would continue to 
compete against the merged firm with similar product ranges. 
118. In particular, the ACCC found that competing roll formers, such as Metroll and 
Stratco, are likely to constrain the merged firm as they have substantial excess 
capacity due to weak demand both currently, and in the foreseeable future.  
119. In addition, switching costs are low for customers. As there is little product 
differentiation between suppliers, products from different roll formers are 
substitutable. Customers indicated that they generally have accounts with 
several roll formers, and regularly switch between suppliers on a project by 
project basis, based on cost and availability. 
120. In the ACCC’s market inquiries, some market participants suggested that 
Fielders generally offers competitive pricing and service. However, other market 
participants did not identify any material differences between Fielders and other 
major national roll formers. The ACCC found that all major roll formers compete 
strongly for customers due to an environment of excess capacity, limited product 
differentiation and low switching costs.  
Likelihood of entry 
121. The ACCC’s market inquiries indicated that there are no significant barriers to 
entry in terms of sunk costs, technical expertise, regulatory compliance or 
distribution. The ACCC identified examples of successful small-scale entry and 
expansion to roll forming markets in South Australia and Western Australia in the 
last five years. 
122. Nevertheless, the ACCC decided that the threat of new entry would be unlikely 
to constrain the merged firm. In particular, incumbent suppliers have significant 
excess capacity, at least in the context of current customer demand and in the 
foreseeable future. This is likely to represent a significant strategic barrier to 
entry given the potential threat of retaliation, in terms of pricing, by incumbents in 
response to a new supplier. 
Conclusion – supply of roll formed steel products 
123. The ACCC concluded that the proposed acquisition would be unlikely to result in 
a substantial lessening of competition for the supply of roll formed steel products 
in the relevant markets. The existence of significant alternative suppliers, such 
as Stramit, Stratco and Metroll, with excess capacity is likely to constrain the 
merged firm from unilaterally raising prices or decreasing service. 
Foreclosure of rival steel coil suppliers’ access to customers 
124. The ACCC considered whether BlueScope’s rivals for the supply of steel coil 
inputs (i.e. import traders and distributors) would lack sufficient alternative 
customers following the loss of Fielders as an independent customer for steel 
coil inputs. This could reduce rivals’ economies of scale, thereby increasing their 
costs and reducing competition to BlueScope. 


 
Page 18 of 18 
 
125. The ACCC concluded that the acquisition was unlikely to cause a substantial 
lessening of competition in the markets for the supply of steel coil inputs. This 
conclusion was informed by the potential for rival suppliers to supply other 
Australian roll formers, including smaller local roll formers, or to supply steel 
products directly to end users other than roll formers. The ACCC also noted that 
Fielders was already sourcing the vast majority of its steel coil inputs from 
BlueScope, and was likely to continue to do so regardless of the proposed 
acquisition due to BlueScope’s rebate arrangements.  
Conclusion  
126. On the basis of the above the ACCC formed the view that BlueScope’s proposed 
acquisition of Fielders would not be likely to result in a substantial lessening of 
competition in any market in contravention of section 50 of the Act. 
