1 
 
 
Statement of Issues 
5 December 2013 
BlueScope - proposed acquisition of Fielders 
Introduction 
1. 
Outlined below is the Statement of Issues released by the Australian Competition and 
Consumer Commission (ACCC) on the proposed acquisition of certain assets of the 
Fielders roll forming manufacturing business from Hills Holdings Limited and other 
associated entities (Fielders) by BlueScope Steel Ltd (BlueScope) (the proposed 
acquisition). 
2. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a proposed 
acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing attention to particular 
issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well as identifying the lines of 
further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
3. 
In line with the ACCC’s Merger Review Process Guidelines (at 
www.accc.gov.au/processguidelines) the ACCC has established a secondary timeline 
for further consideration of the issues. The ACCC anticipates completing further 
market inquiries by 20 December 2013 and anticipates making a final decision on  
30 January 2014. However, the anticipated timeline can change in line with the 
Merger Review Process Guidelines. To keep abreast of possible changes in relation to 
timing and to find relevant documents, market participants should visit the Mergers 
Register on the ACCC's website at www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
4. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide the 
merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 
The parties 
BlueScope 
5. 
BlueScope is a large vertically integrated steel manufacturer and distributor listed on 
the Australian Securities Exchange. 
6. 
BlueScope is the only manufacturer in Australia of steel slab through its Port Kembla 
steelworks. The steelworks has a capacity of 2.6 million tonnes per annum. Through 
its subsidiary Coated and Industrial Products Australia (CIPA), BlueScope processes 
steel slab into a range of steel products classified as ‘flat steel’ products. Further 
information on the flat steel products supply chain is provided below. 


2 
 
7. 
In addition to CIPA, BlueScope has a number of businesses at various levels of the flat 
steel supply chain, including in steel products distribution and businesses carrying out 
additional manufacturing functions. 
Lysaght 
8. 
Relevant to the proposed acquisition is the BlueScope subsidiary Lysaght. Lysaght 
manufactures roll formed products. Further information on roll forming and roll formed 
products is provided below. Lysaght has approximately 30 manufacturing and sales 
sites across Australia. 
Fielders 
9. 
Fielders is a subsidiary of Hills Holding Limited (Hills). Fielders manufactures roll 
formed products. 
10. 
Fielders’ main roll forming manufacturing operations are centred at Mile End in South 
Australia. It also has manufacturing facilities at Wangara in Western Australia, 
Campbellfield in Victoria and Minto in New South Wales. Fielders also has sales sites 
located throughout South Australia, Western Australia, and a branch in Darwin. 
11. 
Fielders also operates downstream shed building distribution and retail businesses 
which utilise roll formed products. These are its Endurance Structures and Fielders 
Centenary businesses. 
Industry background 
Flat steel products  
12. 
The steel supply chain in Australia is complex with a number of functional levels, 
numerous types of steel products, multiple inputs into various manufacturing 
processes and a global dynamic through imports and exports. 
13. 
Steel producers use inputs such as iron ore, coal and steel scrap to form raw steel 
either through using a basic oxygen furnace, or an electric arc furnace. Raw steel is 
then passed through a casting machine which moulds and solidifies the steel into 
semi-finished steel products known as ‘slab’, ‘billets’ or ‘blooms’. Steel slab, billets and 
blooms then undergo further processing to produce a range of ‘flat’ or ‘long’ steel 
products. It is flat steel products which are relevant to the proposed acquisition. 
14. 
To produce flat products steel slab is reheated and passed through a rolling mill to 
produce Hot Rolled Coil (HRC) or a form of steel plate. HRC may be subject to further 
processing into either coil plate or Cold Rolled Coil (CRC). In particular, CRC is 
produced by passing HRC through rolling mills at low temperature to reduce thickness. 
This process increases the strength of the steel and enables it to be rolled into coil for 
transport and storage. 
15. 
Relevant to the proposed acquisition is the further processing of CRC into either 
metallic coated coil or painted coil. Metallic coated coil is produced by uncoiling the 
CRC and applying a metallic coating. The most common coatings are zinc 
(galvanised) and aluminium zinc. Painted coil is produced by painting either CRC or 
metallic coated coil. 


3 
 
16. 
As noted above, BlueScope CIPA is the only Australian manufacturer of flat steel 
products. The other source of flat steel products is via imports, either directly from an 
overseas steel mill or through an Australian based import trader. 
17. 
Figure 1 provides a broad representation of the place of roll forming in the flat steel 
products supply chain, which is relevant to the proposed acquisition. 
Figure 1: Flat steel products supply chain 
 
Roll forming 
18. 
Roll forming is the manufacturing process where steel coil is fed through contoured 
roller die machinery to form ‘roll formed’ steel in a particular profile which can then be 
cut to a particular length. 
19. 
The steel inputs used in the roll forming manufacturing process are galvanised coil, 
aluminium zinc coated coil, and painted coil. Roll formed products include roofing, 
walling, guttering, fencing and steel formwork. In most cases for each product category 
specific machinery would be required to produce the relevant products. 
20. 
The type of roll formed products supplied, and the end uses they are ultimately 
suitable for, will depend on: 
o the gauge (thickness) and width of the steel being roll formed; 
o the strength grade of the steel; 
o the complexity of the cross-section required (the greater the complexity, the 
more rollers required); and 
o the speed at which the steel is fed through the roll former (the lighter the 
gauge and the less complex the cross-section, the faster the speed at which 
the steel can be fed through the machine). 


4 
 
21. 
Roll formed products are used in all types of building structures (residential, 
commercial and industrial). Customers of roll formers include builders, steel 
fabricators, form and specialist roof installers, shed manufacturers, fencing 
contractors, distributors and other resellers such as hardware retailers or specialist 
shed retailers. Customers often source roll formed products from multiple suppliers 
with purchases typically being made on a project basis rather than under long term or 
exclusive supply arrangements. 
22. 
Manufacturers of roll formed products are commonly referred to as ‘roll formers’. There 
are five roll formers that operate nationally: Lysaght, Fielders, Stramit, Stratco and 
Metroll.  In addition, there are roll formers operating in certain Australian states, such 
as Revolution Roofing (SA and WA) and Combined Metal Industries (WA). 
23. 
Roll formers in Australia source steel coil inputs predominantly from BlueScope CIPA 
and in some cases through imports. Imports are sourced either via locally based 
traders or directly from overseas steel mills. 
24. 
Figure 2 provides a broad representation of the roll formed products supply chain and 
the proposed acquisition’s place in the supply chain. 
Figure 2: Roll formed products supply chain and proposed acquisition 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other industry participants 
25. 
The ACCC’s market inquiries have generally identified five major national roll formers 
which offer a comparable range of products, and have manufacturing facilities in 
all/almost all states. In addition to Fielders and Lysaght, these are Stramit, Metroll and 
Stratco. 


5 
 
Stramit 
26. 
Stramit is a subsidiary of Fletcher Building Limited. It manufactures roll formed 
products for a range of applications, including steel formwork. Stramit delivers these 
products, along with complementary products and services, through a national network 
of manufacturing and distribution centres. 
Metroll 
27. 
Metroll produces roll formed products for most applications, with manufacturing plants 
in all states. Metroll does not supply steel formwork. 
Stratco 
28. 
Stratco is a manufacturer of a large range of roll formed products, with plants in all 
states in Australia (except Tasmania). Stratco also has its own downstream retail 
outlets for the supply of roll formed products such as sheds. Stratco does not supply 
steel formwork. 
Other roll formers 
29. 
There are numerous other smaller roll formers, which focus on the supply of a smaller 
range of products and which do not supply nationally. These include roll formers such 
as Revolution Roofing, Apex, Ace Gutters and Combined Metal Industries. 
30. 
Additionally, there are three roll formers which supply only steel formwork products. 
These include steel formwork specialists Formdeck Constructions and Formdeck 
Australia (both based in Victoria), and Big River Timber (which is based in NSW and is 
primarily a supplier of timber products). 
The transaction 
31. 
On 19 August 2013, BlueScope publicly announced agreements to acquire the 
Fielders and Orrcon steel businesses from Hills. The proposed acquisition is 
conditional on ACCC clearance. The ACCC commenced a public review of the 
proposed acquisition on 4 September 2013. 
Market inquiries 
32. 
On 4 September 2013, the ACCC commenced market inquiries regarding the 
proposed acquisition. A range of interested parties provided responses, including 
distributors of steel coil, rival roll formers, customers of roll formed products and 
industry associations. 
Future with and without the acquisition  
33. 
Section 50 of the Act prohibits mergers or acquisitions that would have the effect or be 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. In assessing 
a proposed acquisition pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC considers the 
effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future competitive environment post-
acquisition if the acquisition proceeds (the “with” position) to the likely future 
competitive environment if the acquisition does not proceed (the “without” position) to 
determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to substantially lessen competition 
in any relevant market. 
34. 
For the purposes of this Statement of Issues, the ACCC will at this stage assess the 
proposed acquisition against the status quo. Fielders has recently been the subject of 


6 
 
a sale process. In the event that BlueScope does not acquire Fielders, the current 
owners may retain the business and continue with their strategic plans or the business 
may be sold to another party. 
Areas of overlap 
35. 
Lysaght and Fielders overlap is in the manufacture and supply of roll formed products, 
including steel formwork. As outlined below, this overlap is most relevant in South 
Australia and Western Australia, where both Lysaght and Fielders have a strong 
presence.  
Market definition  
Supply of steel coil inputs 
36. 
The supply of steel coil inputs is relevant in considering the proposed acquisition as 
BlueScope CIPA is the predominant supplier of these inputs to roll formers, including, 
Lysaght and Fielders. 
Product dimension 
37. 
The key inputs into the manufacture of roll formed products are: 
o painted steel coil (painted coil); 
o steel coil coated with a zinc/aluminium alloy or zinc/aluminium/magnesium 
alloy (aluminium zinc coil); and 
o galvanised steel coil (galvanised coil); 
(collectively steel coil inputs) 
38. 
In most cases the potential for demand side substitution by the roll formers between 
the inputs is limited due to end customer requirements for specific roll formed 
products. Further, roll formers often require specific grades of each input based on the 
input’s chemical properties and other specific characteristics (e.g. dimensions). 
39. 
Despite these demand side characteristics, the ACCC did not consider it necessary to 
define narrower markets than the three main inputs utilised by roll formers. This is due 
to supply side substitution. Suppliers of steel coil inputs, such as BlueScope CIPA and 
overseas steel mills, supply a large range of steel coil inputs in the specific grades and 
dimensions required by Australian roll formers 
Painted coil 
40. 
A focus of market inquiries with industry participants was the supply of BlueScope 
CIPA’s COLORBOND product. COLORBOND is a painted coil input developed by 
BlueScope, which has significant brand recognition and it is considered important for 
roll formers to offer COLORBOND roll formed products.   
41. 
The ACCC does not consider COLORBOND represents a separate product market to 
painted coil. Other painted coil products have similar chemical and performance 
characteristics. However, it appears that COLORBOND grades used in residential 
products have particular strong brand recognition.  


7 
 
Geographic dimension 
42. 
The ACCC considers the geographic scope of the steel coil input markets are national. 
BlueScope CIPA and other suppliers, such as import traders, supply roll formers 
across Australia. 
Supply of roll formed products 
Product dimension 
43. 
Key types or categories of roll formed products include: 
o roofing and walling, including steel sheeting and cladding; 
o rainwater products, such as downpipes and gutters; 
o purlins and structural sections, 
o fencing; and 
o structural decking/steel formwork (steel formwork). 
44. 
The ACCC considers that, from a customer’s perspective, there is little or no scope to 
substitute a product having one function with another (such as roofing for guttering). 
Furthermore, with the exception of sales of roofing, walling and rainwater products, 
only a small proportion of customers purchase more than one product category. 
Customers include roof fixers, form-workers and fence installers that specialise in 
installing particular products, and retailers that specialise in selling particular products 
such as sheds. Only distributors/resellers regularly purchase more than one category 
of product. 
45. 
However, in terms of supply, the ACCC considers that the manufacturing process and 
expertise is common to almost all products. The merger parties and other main 
suppliers each produce and supply a wide range of products. Therefore, distinguishing 
separate markets by product category is unlikely to meaningfully influence the ACCC’s 
competition assessment. A possible exception in these respects is supply of steel 
formwork, as discussed below. 
Substitution with other materials 
46. 
The ACCC is also considering the impact of competition from non-steel products on 
the supply of roll formed products, and the extent to which these are substitutable with 
the roll formed products supplied by the merged firm. 
47. 
For example, roofing and walling is the largest product segment in terms of customer 
demand for roll formed products. In the ACCC’s market inquiries to date, some market 
participants have suggested that, in residential roofing, roof tiles are a substitute for 
steel roofing and that they place some constraint on the price of steel roofing. 
48. 
The ACCC is seeking further information from interested parties on any effects that 
inter-material competition has on the pricing of roll formed products, including roofing 
and steel formwork. 


8 
 
Geographic dimension  
49. 
The ACCC understands that roll formers generally operate production facilities close to 
their customers to meet local demand and that interstate supply of roll formed products 
is generally limited due to freight costs and short lead times, among other factors. The 
ACCC’s preliminary view is therefore that the markets for the manufacture and supply 
of roll formed products are state-based. 
Supply of steel formwork 
Product dimension 
50. 
The ACCC is also considering the effects of the proposed acquisition specifically on 
the manufacture and supply of steel formwork. Steel formwork is used in the 
construction of suspended concrete slabs in buildings - generally multi-storey 
commercial buildings. Steel formwork is used to create a deck upon which the 
concrete is poured. 
51. 
The ACCC understands that supply side substitution between other roll formed 
products and steel formwork may be limited due to the investment in specific 
equipment and timeframes associated with product development as well as technical 
expertise required to produce steel formwork. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the 
manufacture and supply of steel formwork should be considered a distinct product 
market for the purpose of assessing the proposed acquisition. 
Substitution with timber 
52. 
The merger parties submit that customers, generally construction companies, regularly 
switch between steel formwork and timber formwork. The ACCC understands that 
steel formwork has advantages in terms of reduced construction time, fewer support 
structures (e.g. props) and is less labour intensive. However, it does have a higher 
upfront cost and is not reusable. Timber formwork on the other hand can be reused 
although it is more labour intensive and can add to construction time. 
53. 
The substitutability between steel and timber formwork will be explored further by the 
ACCC in market inquiries on this Statement of Issues.  
Geographic dimension  
54. 
The ACCC is considering the feasibility of suppliers transporting steel formwork 
between states and at this stage is undecided whether the market for the manufacture 
and supply of steel formwork is national or state-based in scope. Consequently, the 
ACCC has considered the proposed acquisition’s potential competition effects in 
respect of steel formwork on the basis of both national and state based markets.  
Preliminary conclusions - relevant markets 
55. 
For the reasons described above, the ACCC at this stage considers that the relevant 
markets in which to assess the proposed acquisition are: 
o national markets for the supply of: 
o painted coil; 
o aluminium zinc coil;  
o galvanised coil;  


9 
 
o either a national market or state-based markets for the manufacture and 
supply of steel formwork;  
o state-based markets for the manufacture and supply of roll formed products 
(other than steel formwork) in each of: 
o South Australia/Northern Territory; 
o Western Australia; 
o New South Wales/Australian Capital Territory; 
o Victoria/Tasmania; and 
o Queensland.   
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its proposed definition of the 
relevant markets. 
In particular, market participants may wish to comment on: 
a. 
whether manufacturers of roll formed products are likely to be able to quickly and 
profitably switch their production capacity or make additional investments to supply 
steel formwork in response to a small but significant increase in the price of steel 
formwork; 
b. 
any differences in the supply of steel formwork (for example, longer lead times, limited 
local production and/or greater quantities sourced for specific projects) compared to 
other roll formed products, which makes interstate supply more viable; and 
c. 
the extent to which customers consider timber formwork to be an alternative for steel 
formwork and the issues (e.g. cost, timeframe) that customers take into account when 
selecting between steel and timber.  
Statement of issues 
56. 
For the purposes of a Statement of Issues, the ACCC may identify three categories of 
issues: ‘issues of concern’, ‘issues that may raise concerns’ and ‘issues unlikely to 
raise competition concerns’. In this Statement of Issues, the issues have been 
categorised as 'issues that may raise concerns' and ‘issues unlikely to raise 
competition concerns’. 
Issues that may raise concerns 
57. 
The ACCC considers that the vertical and horizontal merger issues described below 
are important to the ACCC’s assessment of the likely competition effects arising from 
the proposed acquisition. The following section describes the ACCC’s potential 
concerns and provides details of specific further information that is being sought from 
interested parties. 
Foreclosure of rival roll formers’ access to steel coil inputs  
58. 
BlueScope CIPA is the only Australian manufacturer of galvanised coil and aluminium 
zinc coil, and is the primary Australian manufacturer of painted steel coil (there are 
other smaller domestic manufacturers of painted steel coil with a very limited market 


10 
 
presence). BlueScope is already vertically integrated into the downstream supply of 
roll formed products, via its Lysaght business.  
59. 
As a result of the proposed acquisition and the merged firm’s greater roll forming 
capacity and market share(s), BlueScope may have an increased ability and incentive 
to foreclose rival roll formers’ access to steel coil inputs, or to supply them on 
discriminatory terms (in terms of price, service or other terms of supply). Relevant 
factors the ACCC is considering in relation to this increased vertical integration are: 
o the merged firm’s ability to foreclose supply of steel coil inputs to rival roll 
formers and, in this respect, whether BlueScope currently has market power 
in the supply of steel coil inputs; 
o the merged firm’s incentive to foreclose supply of steel coil inputs to rival roll 
formers and, in this respect, the potential gains and losses to the merged firm 
at each level of the supply chain from foreclosure of supply to rivals; and 
o the likely competitive effects of any foreclosure of steel coil inputs to rival roll 
formers, including the potential for any increase in barriers to entry.  
60. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the increase in vertical integration arising from 
BlueScope’s proposed acquisition of Fielders may raise competition concerns. The 
ACCC considers that BlueScope likely already has market power in the supply of 
painted coil that it may be able to leverage off in foreclosing or partially foreclosing rival 
roll formers’ access to steel coil inputs. However, the proposed acquisition may 
increase their incentive to engage in such a foreclosure strategy. This strategy may 
increase rival roll formers’ costs and in doing so impact their ability to compete against 
the merged firm.   
The merged firm’s ability to foreclose supply of inputs to rival roll formers 
61. 
To determine whether the merged firm would have the ability to significantly foreclose 
rival roll formers’ access to steel coil inputs, the ACCC is considering whether 
BlueScope would have market power in any upstream market for the supply of 
relevant steel coil inputs. In doing so the ACCC is examining the extent to which roll 
formers could source alternative inputs to those manufactured by BlueScope CIPA  
from overseas steel mills (or through locally based import traders) or through smaller 
domestic suppliers. 
62. 
The ACCC recognises that a significant role is played by import competition in the 
overall supply of steel products in Australia. However, information provided to the 
ACCC through market inquiries to date has indicated that the competitive constraint on 
domestic supply from imports differs markedly between specific steel coil inputs and 
their end-use application. 
63. 
In particular, there appears likely to be the potential for roll formers to substitute 
between BlueScope CIPA supply and imports of galvanised coil and, to a lesser 
degree, aluminium zinc coil. The ACCC has received material demonstrating that 
BlueScope changes its pricing of these products in response to import prices. The 
ACCC considers that actual and potential import competition may represent a 
competitive constraint on the merged firm’s supply of these inputs to rival roll formers.  
64. 
However, the ACCC’s market inquiries identified that market participants generally 
consider that alternative painted coil products, including imports, are not a strong 
substitute for BlueScope’s COLORBOND painted coil products. This is particularly the 
case for COLORBOND grades used in residential applications. While alternative 


11 
 
painted coil products, including imported painted coil, may have similar chemical and 
quality characteristics, end-use customers of roll formed products, such as builders, 
often do not accept non-COLORBOND products for residential applications. 
Furthermore, architects and/or engineers often specify the use of COLORBOND in 
construction plans. As a consequence, roll formers consider that COLORBOND is a 
‘must have’ product.  
65. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that BlueScope has market power in the supply of 
painted coil products due to its COLORBOND grades of painted coil. COLORBOND is 
considered by roll formers to be a critical input to their businesses, particularly for the 
supply of residential roofing, which is a very large market segment. It does not appear 
that pricing of imported painted coil products influences BlueScope’s pricing of the key 
COLORBOND grade used is residential applications.  
66. 
The ACCC is aware of extensive rebate arrangements in place between BlueScope 
CIPA and roll formers. The ACCC considers that these arrangements, which require 
roll formers to source a high overall threshold of steel coil inputs from BlueScope to 
obtain the rebates, limit the ability of rival roll formers to obtain painted coil and other 
steel coil inputs from other sources, particularly via imports. As discussed above, 
COLORBOND is considered a ‘must have’ by many roll formers. The linking of 
COLORBOND supply to the acquisition of other steel coil inputs as well as the high 
purchase thresholds to qualify for specific rebates means that were roll formers to 
attempt to switch to alternatives sources of steel coil inputs they would likely forego 
significant financial incentives. 
67. 
The ACCC understands that the rebates provided by BlueScope to roll formers are 
crucial to the ongoing viability of their businesses in an industry of low margins and 
profitability. The ACCC considers that these rebate arrangements on COLORBOND 
and other BlueScope products are likely to limit the opportunity for rival roll formers to 
increase their use of imported product in response to, for example, any price 
discrimination by the merged firm.  
68. 
The ACCC notes that this market power and potential ability to foreclose rival roll 
formers exists now. The focus of the ACCC’s assessment is on whether the proposed 
acquisition will alter the incentive on BlueScope to exercise this market power.  
Merged firm’s incentive to foreclose supply of inputs to rival roll formers 
69. 
As noted previously, BlueScope is already vertically integrated through Lysaght. No 
information provided to the ACCC indicates that BlueScope currently discriminates 
against competitors of Lysaght by offering terms that are materially less favourable 
than those on which it supplies Lysaght, despite the fact that Lysaght has excess 
capacity.  
70. 
Nonetheless, some market participants have raised concerns that aggregation of 
Lysaght and Fielders would provide BlueScope with an increased incentive to exercise 
its market power in the supply of painted coil to significantly or partially foreclose rival 
roll formers access to steel coil inputs.  
71. 
Whether BlueScope would have an incentive to engage in such a foreclosure strategy 
would depend on whether the higher profits it would generate from its downstream roll 
forming business exceed the profits it would lose from making fewer sales of painted 
coil. BlueScope’s higher market share of roll formed product markets after the 
acquisition may increase its incentive to foreclose its rivals since it would have more 
sales over which it would enjoy the higher roll forming margins. In this respect, the 


12 
 
ACCC estimates that in significant areas of overlap, Western Australia and South 
Australia, Lysaght would increase its market share by 20 – 25% and 25 – 30% 
respectively.  
72. 
The ACCC understands that BlueScope has a limited ability to reduce its production of 
flat steel products at its Port Kembla steelworks, without increasing costs. BlueScope 
provided detailed information supporting its submission that the merged firm would 
continue to have a strong incentive not to pursue a foreclosure/discrimination strategy 
due to the significantly higher margins it earns on domestic supply of steel coil 
products over the next best alternative for its Port Kembla steel output – exports of 
steel slab.  
73. 
The ACCC considers that the incentive for BlueScope to supply steel coil inputs at 
non-discriminatory prices to downstream rivals is strongly linked to the ability of rival 
roll formers to bypass BlueScope CIPA through obtaining inputs from alternative 
sources. The incentive will depend on the extent that alternatives, particularly imports, 
represent a credible and strong substitute to its supply of steel coil inputs and 
BlueScope would forego sales in the event it pursued a foreclosure strategy.  
74. 
In assessing BlueScope’s incentives, the ACCC is also examining the extent to which 
BlueScope adopts a national pricing strategy for the supply of steel coil inputs to roll 
formers. The ACCC understands that BlueScope may adopt a national pricing strategy 
for steel coil inputs and as a consequence to exploit any increased incentive to 
foreclose in the states where Lysaght’s market share has increased significantly – 
South Australia and Western Australia – BlueScope may have to change its pricing 
strategy.  
75. 
The incentive will also depend on the indirect loss of sales by BlueScope through any 
reduction in sales by its roll former customers. This will depend principally on the 
extent to which customers of roll formed products are likely to switch to using other 
products in response to an increase in the relative price of painted steel products (e.g. 
tiled roofs in place of steel). 
Downstream competitive effects of foreclosure of inputs 
76. 
Some interested parties have raised concerns with the ACCC that BlueScope’s 
increased vertical integration has the potential to not only affect the competitiveness of 
individual roll formers but also raise barriers to entry.  
77. 
The ACCC notes the low industry wide profitability of roll formers and considers that 
any foreclosure strategy is likely to have a significant impact on the ability of rival roll 
formers to constrain the merged firm. The ACCC is examining the potential impact of 
any foreclosure strategy on barriers to entry.  
Preliminary conclusion - foreclosure of rival roll formers’ access to steel coil inputs  
78. 
The ACCC at this stage considers that BlueScope has market power in the supply of 
painted coil inputs. The ACCC also considers that BlueScope may have an increased 
incentive through the proposed acquisition to foreclose rival roll formers’ access to 
steel coil inputs, or to supply them on discriminatory terms (in terms of price, service or 
other terms of supply).   
79. 
However, the ACCC notes that BlueScope is already vertically integrated and it 
appears that it does not discriminate against competitors of Lysaght. The ACCC 
therefore invites objective information from interested parties identifying how the 


13 
 
proposed acquisition would materially change BlueScope’s incentive to supply steel 
coil inputs to rival roll formers. 
In considering the vertical effects of the proposed acquisition, the ACCC will focus its further 
inquiries on the extent to which BlueScope’s incentive to foreclose rival roll formers 
increases as a result of the proposed acquisition. 
The ACCC invites further submissions from interested parties on the vertical effects of the 
proposed acquisition. In this respect, market participants may wish to comment on: 
a. 
the ability of roll formers to use alternative suppliers of steel coil inputs, particularly in 
respect of painted coil, and the loss of rebates and sales roll formers would incur 
through not meeting rebate targets or not offering COLORBOND products; and 
b. 
the degree to which higher prices or restricted supply of COLORBOND would lead to 
roll formers reducing their COLORBOND purchases and obtaining painted coil from 
other sources. 
c. 
the likely effect of an increase in the price of painted coil on roll formers’ prices and 
sales volumes (including sales that might be at risk from substitution with other 
materials). 
Supply of steel formwork 
80. 
The ACCC considers that the proposed acquisition may result in a substantial 
lessening of competition in the supply of steel formwork either on a national or state 
market basis. This Statement of Issues seeks further information on this issue.  
Market concentration and closeness of competition 
81. 
The merger parties are currently the largest suppliers of steel formwork. Based on 
market inquiries, the ACCC estimates that the merged firm may account for 
approximately 50 – 55% of the supply of steel formwork in Australia. In certain states 
this market share is likely to be substantially higher, particularly in New South Wales, 
Queensland, Western Australia and South Australia.   
82. 
Information provided by market participants and the merger parties indicates that 
Lysaght and Fielders are each other’s closest competitors in the supply of steel 
formwork. Lysaght’s Bondek and Fielders’ KingFlor product ranges enjoy strong 
customer recognition. Both companies produce a wide range of profiles to meet 
particular customer/construction specifications and both appear to have developed 
proprietary technology designed to offer customer benefits in terms of construction 
speed or other factors. 
Availability of substitutes 
83. 
There are fewer suppliers of steel formwork compared to other roll formed products. 
Only three of the larger roll formers in Australia currently manufacture steel formwork -  
the merger parties and Stramit. The proposed acquisition would reduce three main 
suppliers of steel formwork to two. 
84. 
Other manufacturers and suppliers of steel formwork, which are based in certain 
states, include Formdeck Australia, Formdeck Construction and Big River Timber. The 
ACCC understands that their manufacturing scale is relatively small, and that the 
geographic areas of their supply are currently relatively limited. Although, the ACCC 


14 
 
considers that Formdeck Construction may be a strong alternative supplier of steel 
formwork in Victoria.  
85. 
The ACCC is therefore seeking further information about the ability and incentive for 
existing alternative suppliers to offer additional steel formwork products/profiles, and 
whether their manufacturing volumes and/or geographic areas of supply would be 
substitutable with the merged firm.  
Likelihood of new entry 
86. 
The ACCC is considering whether the merged firm would face a credible threat of new 
entry to the supply of steel formwork on a scale and within a timeframe that would 
provide an effective competitive constraint on its pricing and/or service levels.  
87. 
The most likely source of new entry to the manufacture and supply of steel formwork in 
Australia would be an existing roll former, such as Metroll or Stratco. Market feedback 
to date has been mixed on the ability of roll formers not currently supplying steel 
formwork to enter. In particular, while the manufacturing equipment for steel formwork 
generally represents a higher capital cost than other roll formed products it is unclear 
whether any expertise or specific product development is required prior to entry.  
88. 
The primary input into steel formwork is galvanised coil of which the largest supplier is 
BlueScope CIPA. As a consequence, the ACCC is also considering the likelihood of 
new entry in the context of BlueScope’s position as the primary source of galvanised 
coil and also the potential for the proposed acquisition to result in a significant market 
concentration on both a national and state basis.  
Constraint provided by timber formwork 
89. 
As noted in the market definition section, the ACCC is considering whether timber 
formwork is a substitute for steel formwork. The ACCC understands that in the overall 
use of formwork timber is used approximately 75% of the time. Were timber to be 
considered a strong substitute to steel formwork, then the merged firm would likely be 
constrained, noting the numerous suppliers of timber formwork, particularly in the form 
of in-house supply at construction companies.  
90. 
However, the ability of steel formwork customers to constrain the merged firm by 
substituting with timber is unclear, particularly when switching between materials may 
be limited by engineering and architectural specifications. 
Preliminary conclusion - supply of steel formwork in Australia 
91. 
Irrespective of the whether the appropriate market(s) is national or state based, the 
ACCC considers that the proposed acquisition may result in a substantial lessening of 
competition in the supply of steel formwork with the merged firm having the unilateral 
ability to increase prices and/or decrease service.  
92. 
The ACCC is seeking further information addressing, in particular, the substitutability 
of products supplied by other manufacturers, their ability and incentive to expand 
supply in response to an attempted price increase by the merged firm, and the 
potential for other roll formers to commence supply of steel formwork. As addressed 
earlier in the context of market definition, the ACCC will also consider the role of inter-
material competition, specifically the substitutability of timber formwork. 


15 
 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on:   
a. 
the extent to which Lysaght and Fielders are close competitors in relation to the supply 
of steel formwork, including examples which demonstrate your views;  
b. 
the extent to which other steel formwork suppliers provide a competitive constraint on 
the merger parties, including whether other suppliers could prevent an increase in 
price or reduction in service through developing additional steel formwork products 
and/or supplying steel formwork interstate; 
c. 
the ability and incentive of roll formers manufacturing other roll formed products to 
enter the supply of steel formwork in response to an increase in price or reduction in 
service from the merged firm. In responding please provide information on the costs of 
entry, including manufacturing equipment, product development and timeframes for 
entry; and 
d. 
the extent to which customers of steel formwork can switch to using timber formwork in 
response to an increase in price or reduction in service, including the role played by 
engineering or architectural specifications.  
Issues unlikely to raise competition concerns 
 
93. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to raise 
competition concerns in relation to the horizontal and vertical merger issues described 
below. However, the ACCC will accept submissions from interested parties one these 
issues and will further consider potential competition concerns if it considers that such 
an assessment is warranted. 
Supply of roll formed products in South Australia and Western Australia 
 
94. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to raise 
competition concerns in the markets for the supply of roll formed products (other than 
steel formwork) in New South Wales/Australian Capital Territory, Victoria/Tasmania 
and Queensland.   
95. 
Based on market inquiries, the ACCC is assessing the potential for the proposed 
acquisition to result in competition concerns in the supply of roll formed products in 
South Australia and Western Australia. The factors the ACCC is considering in 
assessing these markets are: 
o the extent to which market concentration would increase and the closeness of 
competition between the merger parties; 
o the ability of alternative suppliers to expand; and 
o the likelihood of new entry. 
Market concentration and closeness of competition  
96. 
Fielders is currently the largest roll former in South Australia and one of the largest in 
Western Australia, in terms of sales. The proposed acquisition would result in an 
increase in concentration in the supply of roll formed products in these states. Based 
on market inquiries, the ACCC estimates that the merged firm may account for 
approximately 35 - 40% of the supply of roll formed products in South Australia and 30 
- 35% in Western Australia. 


16 
 
97. 
Some customers of roll formed products submitted to the ACCC that Lysaght and 
Fielders are each other’s closest competitors. Specifically, customers identified that 
Lysaght and Fielders are the major suppliers of roll formed products for commercial 
and industrial applications, as distinct from residential applications, in South Australia.  
98. 
A number of market participants considered that Fielders generally offers competitive 
pricing and service. However, no information provided to the ACCC indicates that 
Fielders is a particularly vigorous and effective competitor above that of other roll 
formers. In particular, the market inquiries indicated that all roll formers compete 
strongly for customers due to an environment of excess capacity, weak demand and 
low switching costs.  
Availability of substitutes 
99. 
The ACCC’s market inquiries to date have identified several competitors at the roll 
forming level, in both South Australia and Western Australia, that supply the same 
types of customers and projects as the merger parties. The ACCC’s market inquiries 
indicate Lysaght and Fielders are among five relatively large roll formers that operate 
nationally, that offer very similar product ranges and that regularly tender against each 
other. 
100. Metroll, Stramit and Revolution Roofing in Western Australia, and Stratco, Metroll, 
Stramit and Revolution Roofing in South Australia all have market shares that indicate 
they are viable alternatives to the merged firm. The viability of these alternatives was 
reflected in market inquiries with most customers, as was the ease with which 
customers are able to switch suppliers.   
101. Further, the ACCC understands that most roll formers are currently operating with 
significant excess capacity and that customers do not face significant costs in 
switching between suppliers. This ability for competitors to increase production and 
sales without the need for significant further capital investment, and for customers to 
switch their demand, would likely prevent an attempted increase in prices of roll 
formed products by the merged firm. 
Likelihood of new entry 
102. The ACCC at this stage considers that new entry, and the threat of new entry, into roll 
forming markets would be unlikely to constrain the merged firm’s service, pricing and 
output decisions in the foreseeable future. The ACCC found no support in market 
inquiries for a view that new entry is likely, or that the merged firm would face a 
credible threat of such entry. 
103. The ACCC recognises that the sunk costs associated with market entry are not high in 
absolute terms. However, as discussed previously, the industry is currently 
characterised by excess capacity and low profitability, which makes entry on a scale 
that would constrain the merged firm unlikely. In particular, this excess capacity 
represents a strategic barrier to entry as it may be deployed by incumbent suppliers 
against any new entrant.  
Preliminary conclusion - supply of roll formed products in South Australia and Western 
Australia 
104. In relation to supply of roll formed products in South Australia and Western Australia, 
the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition appears unlikely to raise 
competition concerns. The ACCC recognises that customers face low switching costs 


17 
 
and the merged firm would continue to face competition from roll formers currently 
having significant excess capacity, including Stramit, Stratco and Metroll. In addition, it 
is not apparent that the proposed acquisition would remove a vigorous and effective 
competitor. 
Foreclosure of rival steel coil suppliers’ access to distribution 
105. The ACCC’s market inquiries to date have addressed whether the loss of Fielders as 
an independent customer or potential customer for steel coil inputs may leave 
BlueScope’s rivals without sufficient actual or potential economic alternatives to sell 
their supply. This may reduce rivals’ economies of scale, thereby increasing their costs 
and potentially reducing competition to BlueScope. 
106. Fielders is a significant acquirer of steel coil inputs. However, other roll formers are 
also large users of steel coil. In addition, there are a large range of users of steel coil 
other than roll formers to which BlueScope’s rivals could seek to direct supply. Also, 
Fielders already acquires the majority of its steel coil inputs directly from BlueScope, 
although the ACCC understands that Fielders has acquired higher volumes of these 
inputs from alternative sources in the past.  
107. Accordingly, the ACCC at this stage considers that the proposed acquisition would not 
provide BlueScope with the ability to anti-competitively foreclose access to distribution 
(customers) by rival suppliers of steel coil inputs. 
ACCC's future steps 
108. The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers market responses 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
109. The ACCC now seeks submissions from interested parties on each of the issues 
identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that may be relevant to 
the ACCC's assessment of this matter. 
110. Submissions are to be received by the ACCC no later than 20 December 2013. The 
ACCC will consider the submissions received from the market and the merger parties 
in light of the issues identified above and will, in conjunction with information and 
submissions already provided by the merger parties, come to a final view in light of the 
issues raised above. 
111. The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 30 January 2014. However 
the anticipated timeline may change in line with the ACCC’s Merger Review Process 
Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose of explaining the 
ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's public announcement. 
