 
 
 
Land of the Ngunnawal people
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
Tel 02 6243 1111 
Fax 02 6243 1199
www.accc.gov.au
Our ref: 
IM-72581 
2 September 2024 
 
Dear Interested Party, 
Re: ACCC seeking your views: Orikan Group Pty Ltd acquisition of Duncan 
Technologies Pty Ltd 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
the proposed acquisition of Duncan Technologies Pty Ltd (Duncan) by Orikan Group Pty Ltd 
(Orikan). 
Duncan and Orikan are both suppliers of parking solutions to state and local governments 
and private operators in Australia. Further details are provided at Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact of the proposed acquisition on parking 
solutions in Australia. 
In particular, we would appreciate your views on: 
• 
how closely Orikan and Duncan compete with each other for tenders to supply 
parking solutions and/or a component of parking solutions (for example, software or 
infringement issuance products) 
• 
the ability of other suppliers of parking solutions in Australia to compete with Orikan 
and Duncan 
• 
the ability for customers to acquire and utilise parking solutions supplied by several 
providers (for example, the ability to integrate with the equipment of a different 
provider), and  
• 
the time and investment required for a new entrant to establish themselves as a 
viable supplier of parking solutions in Australia.  
Further issues you may wish to address are set out at Attachment B. 
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies is in section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 
2010 (Cth) (CCA), which prohibits acquisitions that are likely to have the effect of 
substantially lessening competition in a market. 
Please provide your response by 4pm on 16 September 2024 by email to 
mergers@accc.gov.au. 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public Mergers 
Register at (ACCC mergers register). 


 
 
 
 
 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We will not 
disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by 
law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or during court proceedings) or in 
accordance with s155AAA of the CCA. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where possible so that you may have an 
opportunity to be heard. Therefore, if the information provided to the ACCC is of a 
confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our Informal Merger Review Process 
Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
 
Yours sincerely 
 
Morag Bond 
General Manager  
Merger Investigations 


 
 
 
 
Attachment A 
Transaction  
Orikan Group Pty Ltd (Orikan) proposes to acquire 100% of the issued capital of Duncan 
Technologies Pty Ltd ACN 627 732 343 (Duncan) (the Proposed Acquisition). 
Orikan and Duncan overlap in the supply of parking solutions, which can include analytics, 
parking meters, maintenance, payments, apps, infringement issuance, sensors, number 
plate recognition and cameras/automated enforcement. 
Orikan (acquirer) 
Orikan is an unlisted company that provides end-to-end on street smart parking solutions in 
Australia, New Zealand and other countries. This includes the supply of parking software, 
payment technologies and infringement issuance products and services to state 
governments and local councils, educational institutions, and commercial customers.  
Duncan (target) 
Duncan provides unified on-street parking solutions in Australia and other countries, 
including supply and maintenance of parking meters, enforcement software and processing 
of infringements to government municipalities and private operators. Duncan also resells 
payment apps, sensors, number plate recognition hardware and software and camera 
automated enforcement software of third parties. 
 


 
 
 
 
Attachment B 
1) To help us better understand your views, describe your business or organisation and 
explain your interest in the proposed acquisition, including any commercial 
relationship(s) with Orikan Group Pty Ltd (Orikan) or Duncan Technologies Pty Ltd 
(Duncan). 
Questions for organisations which procure parking solutions 
2) Identify and describe the types of parking products and/or services you procure in 
Australia.  
3) Identify your current suppliers for these products and/or services, including the length of 
time you have used each supplier.  
4) Describe how you procure different types of parking products or services (for example, 
through formal tender or other methods), including whether you tender for, or procure, 
entire parking solutions and/or individual components of parking solutions.  
5) Describe the factors you consider when selecting a supplier of parking products and/or 
services (for example, price, service quality, the ability to integrate with existing parking 
meters and hardware).  
6) For each parking product or service you procure in Australia, identify and describe 
prospective suppliers capable of servicing your needs.  
7) Identify any alternative suppliers you consider can supply the types of products and 
services offered by Orikan and/or Duncan.  
8) Explain how closely Orikan and Duncan compete (for example, on price, range of 
services or capability) in the supply of each product or service listed in response to 
Question 2 above.  
9) Discuss whether the proposed acquisition may lead to an increase in tender prices, or a 
decrease in service level, for any product or service listed in response to Question 2 
above.  
10) Discuss whether you would have the ability to self-supply, or sponsor the entry of a new 
supplier of, parking solutions (i.e. developing in-house capability or supporting a new 
supplier from overseas). Provide past examples of such by-pass if possible. 
11) Discuss the ability for customers to integrate parking products or services supplied by 
more than one supplier. 
12) Discuss the extent to, and ease with which you can change providers of parking products 
and/or services. Describe the factors you would consider when deciding whether or not 
to change provider, and the cost and process that would be involved in changing 
providers including any integration costs.    
Questions for competitors  
13) Identify the parking products and services you tender to supply in Australia. For each 
parking product or service you tender to supply: 
a)  identify your competitors for the product or service, and  


 
 
 
 
b)  provide estimated shares of supply in Australia (for yourself and competitors) for the 
product or service. 
14) Discuss the likelihood of, and timeframe for, new entry in the supply of each product or 
service you supply.  
15) Identify recent examples of new entrants tendering for the supply of each product or 
service you supply.  
16) Discuss the ability of other suppliers of parking solutions in Australia to compete with 
Orikan and Duncan.  
17) Explain your reliance (if any) on accessing software or hardware provided by a third party 
in order to supply your products or services (for example, operating system software for 
parking meters).  
Other  
18) Discuss the importance of innovation and research and development in competition for 
the supply of parking solutions in Australia. 
19) Describe the ability of parking software providers to integrate with existing parking 
equipment (for example, parking meters, sensors, licence recognition cameras). 
20) Explain the importance of a consumer facing parking mobile application to compete in 
the supply of parking solutions.  
21) Provide any additional information or comments that you consider relevant to the ACCC’s 
consideration of the proposed acquisition. 
