Page 1 of 13 
 
Statement of Issues 
5 December 2024 
Orikan Group Pty Ltd - proposed acquisition of 
Duncan Technologies Pty Ltd 
Purpose 
1. 
Orikan Group Pty Ltd (Orikan) proposes to acquire all of the shares of Duncan 
Technologies Pty Ltd (Duncan) (together, the Parties) (the Proposed Acquisition).  
2. 
This Statement of Issues: 
• 
gives the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission’s (ACCC) preliminary 
views on competition issues arising from the Proposed Acquisition 
• 
identifies areas of further inquiry, and 
• 
invites interested parties to submit comments and information to assist our 
assessment of the issues. 
3. 
Statements of Issues do not refer to confidential information provided by the parties or 
other market participants and therefore may not fully articulate the ACCC’s preliminary 
position. 
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views 
4. 
In considering the Proposed Acquisition, the ACCC applies the legal test set out in 
section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the CCA). In general terms, 
section 50 prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to have the 
effect, of substantially lessening competition in any market. 
5. 
The ACCC divides its preliminary views into three categories: 'issues of concern', 
'issues that may raise concerns' and ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’. In this 
Statement of Issues there are two ‘issues of concern’.  
6. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the Proposed Acquisition is likely to:  
• 
substantially lessen competition in the following on-street parking services in 
Australia, by removing Duncan as an effective competitor to Orikan in the supply 
of: 


Orikan Group Pty Ltd Proposed Acquisition of Duncan Technology Pty Ltd 
 
Page 2 of 13 
o end-to-end on-street parking solutions 
o on-street parking meters, a key standalone on-street parking service, and   
o enforcement and infringement systems, another key standalone on-street 
parking service, and   
• 
substantially lessen competition in the supply of on-street parking apps, 
Automated Number Plate Recognition (ANPR) and parking sensors, through 
providing the merged entity with the ability and incentive to foreclose rival 
suppliers by preventing or frustrating integration of third-party products or services 
with the merged entity’s central management systems (CMS).  
Making a submission 
7. 
The ACCC invites submissions from interested parties on the issues identified in this 
statement of issues. 
8. 
Interested parties should provide submissions by 5pm on 19 December 2024. 
Responses may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: Submission re: 
Orikan/Duncan. If you would like to discuss the matter with ACCC staff or have any 
questions about this Statement of Issues, please email mergers@accc.gov.au.  
9. 
The ACCC anticipates making a final decision on 13 March 2025, however, this 
timeline can change. To keep up with possible timing changes and to find relevant 
documents, interested parties should visit the Mergers Register on the ACCC's website 
at www.accc.gov.au/publicregisters/mergers-registers/public-informal-merger-
reviews. 
Confidentiality of submissions 
10. 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the Proposed Acquisition. The ACCC 
will not disclose submissions to third parties (except its advisors/consultants) unless 
compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or during 
court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the CCA. Where the ACCC is 
required to disclose confidential information, the ACCC will notify you in advance 
where possible so that you may have an opportunity to be heard. Therefore, please 
identify any confidential information that is provided to the ACCC. The ACCC’s Informal 
Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’ 
11. 
A Statement of Issues is not a final decision about a proposed acquisition. A 
Statement of Issues outlines the ACCC’s preliminary views and identifies further lines 
of inquiry. 
12. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
purchasers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide the 
merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 


Orikan Group Pty Ltd Proposed Acquisition of Duncan Technology Pty Ltd 
 
Page 3 of 13 
Industry background 
Off-street parking services  
13. 
The ACCC’s assessment to date has focussed on the impact of the acquisition on “on-
street” parking services. The ACCC considers that Orikan and Duncan do not closely 
compete in off-street parking services, such as those offered in shopping centres and 
in multi-story buildings with gated entry and exit points). Market feedback also 
indicates that there are distinct differences in the type of customers serviced, for 
example differences between municipal councils compared to shopping malls and 
other commercial premises in terms of the services used and the competitive 
conditions.  
On-street parking services 
14. 
On-street parking services refers to a range of products and services used to manage 
on-street parking, including parking meters, parking meter maintenance services, 
payment services, enforcement and infringement systems, sensors, ANPR, parking 
apps and analytics. 
15. 
On-street parking services can be supplied as an end-to-end parking solution or 
acquired as standalone services which the customer combines with other components 
to form an integrated parking solution.  
16. 
Integration describes the process of enabling different standalone parking services to 
work with each other. Integration primarily involves ensuring that the data captured and 
recorded by standalone services can be accessed and read or processed by other 
services. For example, an integrated parking solution enables data from sensors and 
ANPR devices and payment data (including via physical parking meters or mobile 
phone payment applications) to be used for issuing infringement notices (including 
through automated technologies or handheld devices used by parking inspectors).  
17. 
The CMS manages the data of an integrated parking solution related to parking (e.g. 
the location of the parking spot, the time the driver arrived and left), payments (fees 
paid through a meter or parking app) and infringements (e.g. instances where the driver 
overstayed or was parked illegally). The CMS therefore enables local councils’ parking 
enforcement staff to access parking site information in real time and issue parking 
infringements.  
18. 
Depending on customer requirements, the CMS is typically provided by the meter 
supplier alongside meter hardware (Parking CMS) and/or as part of the enforcement 
and infringement system. The CMS is the primary hub which can facilitate integration 
with third-party products to form an integrated parking solution (see Figure 1 below). 
Both Duncan and Orikan operate a CMS.  
 
 


Orikan Group Pty Ltd Proposed Acquisition of Duncan Technology Pty Ltd 
 
Page 4 of 13 
Figure 1 – The role of CMS in an integrated parking solution 
 
Customers of on-street parking services 
19. 
Orikan and Duncan primarily compete in the supply of on-street parking services. 
20. 
The key customers of on-street parking services are local councils. Local councils 
typically acquire on-street parking services through competitive procurement 
processes, generally through open tenders. Across Australia, local councils differ 
greatly in terms of their area size, population density, visitation levels and urban 
landscape – all of which influence their demand for on-street parking services.  
21. 
Some local councils prefer to acquire end-to-end on-street parking solutions through a 
single procurement process. In these cases, local councils may allow suppliers to 
respond to a request for tender with either a complete end-to-end solution or partial 
solution. Alternatively, local councils can issue separate tenders for individual 
standalone components and ask suppliers to demonstrate how they will integrate their 
services with those of local councils’ other suppliers. 
22. 
Market feedback suggests that on-street parking services generally fall into one of 
three main categories: 
• 
on-street technology and equipment, which includes parking meters, digital signage 
and guidance, parking sensors and ANPR technology 
• 
enforcement and infringement systems, comprising the digital products and 
systems used to issue infringement notices and manage parking enforcement. 
This category includes field devices used by parking inspectors, the software on 
those devices, permit management, analytics (performance and financial 
dashboards), parking ticket lifecycle management and back-office payment 
channels, and 
• 
parking apps, including pay-by-phone applications and digital permits. 
23. 
Local councils consider a range of factors when evaluating responses to competitive 
procurement processes and awarding contracts. Key criteria include price, technology 
offered, product features, ability to integrate with other on-street parking services or IT 


Orikan Group Pty Ltd Proposed Acquisition of Duncan Technology Pty Ltd 
 
Page 5 of 13 
systems used by the local councils, the supplier’s capability and reputation, and 
existing relationships between the local councils and the supplier.  
Physical parking meters 
24. 
Market feedback suggests the number of physical parking meters is likely to decline 
over time as consumers increasingly pay for parking using digital payment services.1 
Some local councils have already begun the process of rationalising the number of 
physical parking meters. Despite this, most market participants expect parking meters 
will remain an important feature of on-street parking services in the future since some 
consumers face barriers to pay digitally through a smartphone or similar device.  
The Proposed Acquisition and the Parties  
25. 
Orikan proposes to acquire 100% of issued capital of Duncan. Orikan and Duncan both 
supply end-to-end integrated on-street parking services in Australia. Their respective 
offering is summarised in Table 1 below.  
Table 1 – On-street parking services offered by both Orikan and Duncan 
Parking solution 
Orikan 
Duncan 
End-to-end  
√ 
√ 
Parking meters (including parking CMS) 
√ 
√ 
Enforcement and infringements (including CMS) 
√ 
√ 
Apps 
√ 
(re-seller) 
Sensors 
√ 
(re-seller) 
Automated Number Plate Recognition (ANPR)  
√ 
(re-seller) 
26. 
Market feedback is that Orikan and Duncan are the two largest suppliers of end-to-end 
on-street parking solutions in Australia, and they also compete closely in the supply of 
on-street parking meters and enforcement and infringement systems.  
Other industry participants 
27. 
Suppliers of end-to-end on-street parking solutions in Australia other than Orikan and 
Duncan include: 
• 
Flowbird, an OEM supplier of Cale and Parkeon parking components, has an 
Australian presence, and historically has had two resellers in Australia (Australian 
Parking and Revenue Control (APARC), which supplies the ‘Parkeon’ brand, and 
Peritus Technology (Peritus), which supplies Flowbird’s ‘Cale’ brand2) 
• 
Arthur D. Riley (AD Riley), a New Zealand based company with an Australian 
presence, and  
 
 
1 ‘Digital payment solutions’ includes applications on mobile devices, other emerging technologies such as ‘virtual 
parking meters’ (i.e. sign mounted public iPads which can facilitate card or phone payments), and radiofrequency 
identification (RFID) chips embedded in vehicles. 
2 Peritus also supplies parking meters from Blinkay Mobility to Horsham Shire Council. 


Orikan Group Pty Ltd Proposed Acquisition of Duncan Technology Pty Ltd 
 
Page 6 of 13 
• 
Smarter City Solutions, a supplier of end-to-end parking solutions and reseller of 
Orikan meters. 
28. 
Suppliers of standalone services are present in enforcement and infringements 
(including AeroRanger, Billing Bureau, Schweers and Smart Parking), parking apps 
(including EasyPark and UbiPark), sensors (including Vehicle Management Systems 
(VMS)), and ANPR (including AeroRanger, Genetech and SenSen).  
29. 
Suppliers of standalone services typically focus on trying to become ‘best in breed’ in 
their specific product. They compete with end-to-end integrated suppliers by forming 
arrangements with other suppliers that offer complementary parking solutions, or by 
integrating their products with the CMS and/or enforcement system chosen by a 
customer. 
Market definition  
Geographic dimension 
30. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the appropriate geographic dimension for the 
markets is national.  
31. 
While local councils require the on-street parking solutions to be delivered to, installed, 
and/or serviced within their local jurisdiction, suppliers from anywhere within Australia 
respond to (and win) local councils’ tenders. While suppliers benefit from having a local 
presence in Australia, there appears to be no distinct advantage for suppliers being 
located within the same region or state as the customer or already having a contract in 
that region or state. 
Product dimension 
32. 
The ACCC has not formed a concluded view on the dimensions of the relevant product 
market(s).  
33. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that there are likely to be markets for:  
• 
the supply of integrated, end-to-end on-street parking solutions, and 
• 
the supply of each product/service that is a component of an on-street parking 
solution, including (but not limited to)3:  
o parking meters 
o parking sensors 
o ANPR  
o enforcement and infringement systems, and 
o parking apps. 
 
 
3 The ACCC is aware of other components of a parking solution could also comprise product markets, such as 
cameras, however these have not been included since they are not likely to be affected by the Proposed Acquisition.  


Orikan Group Pty Ltd Proposed Acquisition of Duncan Technology Pty Ltd 
 
Page 7 of 13 
34. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view reflects both supply and demand considerations. On the 
demand side: 
• 
The needs and procurement strategies of local councils differ depending on the 
requirements of the council. In some instances, due to prior capital investment and 
timing considerations, it may only be necessary or efficient for councils to tender 
for a specific component of a parking service. In other cases (for example when a 
council wishes to install an entirely new system) it may be materially more cost 
effective for council to tender for the full end-to-end package, and it is unlikely that 
modular tendering would provide a competitively priced alternative.  
• 
Different components of a parking solution perform different functions and are 
generally not interchangeable (i.e. parking sensors play a very different role from 
parking apps). 
35. 
On the supply side, there is limited substitution between the supply of the various 
components of an on-street parking services from standalone suppliers, however there 
is a degree of one-way substitutability between end-to-end on-street parking solutions 
and the individual components:  
• 
A standalone supplier of one parking service cannot easily switch to supplying 
another service, because the technology, expertise and inputs required to supply, 
install and service individual components of on-street parking solutions are very 
different.  
• 
A standalone supplier of one parking service cannot easily switch to supplying an 
end-to-end on-street parking solution, however they can partner with (or re-sell the 
parking services of) other standalone suppliers and bid for contracts with local 
governments as consortia.  
• 
An end-to-end supplier can (and typically would) supply individual standalone on-
street parking services to meet the specific needs of a local council.  
36. 
The ACCC invites submissions from interested parties on the matters identified in this 
statement of issues. 
Questions for market participants 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants to inform its views on the 
relevant market(s), including: 
• 
the extent to which suppliers of on-street parking services focus on certain 
geographic areas 
• 
the factors local councils consider when determining how to structure their 
tenders, such as whether to acquire end-to-end parking solutions or to integrate 
products/services from multiple suppliers 
• 
the factors which suppliers of on-street parking services consider when deciding 
whether to contest procurement processes 
• 
the extent to which suppliers of standalone on-street parking services can contest 
competitive procurement processes for the supply of end-to-end on-street parking 
solutions, such as by forming consortia to submit a joint bid 


Orikan Group Pty Ltd Proposed Acquisition of Duncan Technology Pty Ltd 
 
Page 8 of 13 
• 
the extent to which parking meters and parking apps are close substitutes, and 
• 
the likely timeframe for rationalisation or removal of physical parking meters in 
favour of digital payment solutions in Australia or in particular geographic areas of 
Australia. 
Issue of concern: substantial lessening of competition in the 
supply of on-street parking services in Australia 
37. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the Proposed Acquisition is likely to have the effect 
of substantially lessening competition the supply of the following services in Australia, 
by removing Duncan as an effective competitor to Orikan in the supply of: 
• 
end-to-end on-street parking solutions in Australia 
• 
on-street parking meters as a standalone on-street parking service, and  
• 
on-street enforcement and infringement systems as a standalone on-street 
parking service. 
38. 
Market feedback is that Orikan and Duncan are the two largest suppliers of end-to-end 
on-street parking solutions in Australia. Orikan and Duncan regularly contest the same 
competitive procurement processes and are often among the shortlist of suppliers that 
local councils consider capable of delivering end-to-end on-street parking solutions.  
39. 
Market feedback also suggests that Orikan and Duncan also compete closely in the 
supply of on-street parking meters and enforcement and infringement systems. 
40. 
The ACCC is concerned that the Proposed Acquisition will remove the competitive 
constraint on Orikan by Duncan, which is likely to result in less competitive tender 
responses for customers in terms of price and service levels. 
41. 
There are a small number of alternative providers of the relevant services, namely: 
• 
suppliers of end-to-end on-street parking solutions, Flowbird (and its resellers), AD 
Riley and Smarter City, which also supply on-street parking meters and on-street 
enforcement and infringement systems, and  
• 
in the supply of standalone on-street enforcement and infringement systems, there 
are a number of smaller standalone suppliers such as AeroRanger, Billing Bureau, 
Schweers and Smart Parking. 
42. 
Other suppliers are unlikely to provide a meaningful competitive constraint following 
the Proposed Acquisition.  
43. 
Despite regularly contesting local councils’ competitive procurement processes 
against Orikan and/or Duncan, none of these suppliers have secured significant shares 
of the addressable markets relative to Orikan and Duncan. Several of these suppliers 
are present in only one or very few contracts. Accordingly, they are unlikely to present a 
strong constraint on the merged entity following the proposed acquisition.  
 
 


Orikan Group Pty Ltd Proposed Acquisition of Duncan Technology Pty Ltd 
 
Page 9 of 13 
Barriers to entry and expansion 
44. 
The ACCC considers that there are significant barriers to entry and expansion in end-to-
end on-street parking solutions, standalone on-street parking meters and/or on-street 
enforcement and infringement systems. 
45. 
Barriers specific to the supply of end-to-end on-street parking solutions include the 
costs associated with a supplier establishing or expanding their product range. New 
entrants, or suppliers of standalone on-street parking services, may partner with or 
acquire other standalone suppliers to complement their product range. In this scenario, 
the ability to offer a CMS, via on-street parking meters or enforcement and 
infringement system would be a critical element of their offering. 
46. 
A new entrant into the supply of end-to-end on-street parking solutions, standalone 
supply of on-street parking meters and/or supply of on-street enforcement and 
infringement systems faces a number of costs and/or barriers including:  
• 
the time and resources involved in contesting competitive procurement processes, 
which are bespoke to each local council and require a significant volume of 
information to be presented to address mandatory and evaluative criteria 
• 
the established reputation and track record of delivery by a small number of 
existing providers may dissuade new entrants. Reputation is a factor considered 
by local councils in procurement processes. Market feedback is that local councils 
typically request Australian customer references and evidence of successful 
delivery as part of competitive procurement processes with reference to specific 
products. Overseas references are of limited relevance and persuasion. Market 
feedback is that winning a ‘reference contract’ in Australia and delivering it 
successfully over a period of time is one method of for a supplier to enhance their 
ability to win future opportunities, but implementing this strategy can require many 
years and significant cost and may not be possible for many suppliers 
• 
the phase out of physical parking meters, which remain an important component 
of end-to-end on-street parking solutions, is likely to limit the attractiveness of 
entry into end-to-end on-street parking solutions and standalone on-street parking 
meters. Suppliers generally incur considerable sunk costs if they wish to add on-
street parking meters to their product range. However, market feedback suggests 
that suppliers are unlikely to have sufficient tendering cycles remaining to recoup 
investment to incentivise new entry 
• 
advantages associated with scale, such as enabling suppliers to spread product 
research, development, and maintenance costs across a larger customer base. 
There are considerable sunk costs associated with developing such technology, 
which is a barrier to entry, and  
• 
advantages associated with being the incumbent supplier of on-street parking 
services to a local council, particularly end-to-end parking solutions. Local councils 
face considerable costs and delivery risks associated with switching suppliers. 
The risk of service disruption can have a significant impact because parking fees 
are an important source of revenue for some local councils. Local councils have 
an incentive to form long-term relationships with suppliers of on-street parking 
services. Local councils therefore tend to only contemplate switching where there 
are compelling reasons which outweigh these costs and risks. 


Orikan Group Pty Ltd Proposed Acquisition of Duncan Technology Pty Ltd 
 
Page 10 of 13 
47. 
Given these factors, the ACCC considers that post acquisition, the merged firm is 
unlikely to be constrained by the threat of timely entry or expansion into end-to-end 
solutions, on-street parking meters and on-street enforcement and infringement 
systems. 
Customer countervailing power 
48. 
The ACCC also considers that customers of on-street parking services have limited 
countervailing power: 
• 
contracts for on-street parking services are relatively small, and local councils are 
unlikely to have the ability or resources to develop their own parking services, or to 
sponsor new entrants to develop bespoke on-street parking solutions  
• 
local councils are accountable to their constituents in terms of their administration 
of public funds. Local councils are required by law to conduct competitive 
procurement processes, except in limited circumstances. Directly approaching 
suppliers may result in additional probity risks, and  
• 
through tender evaluation criteria and weightings applied to these criteria, local 
councils have expressed a strong preference for suppliers with reputation and 
demonstrated capability in delivering on-street parking services in Australia. New 
entrants are unlikely to rate higher than incumbents in these factors. 
49. 
The ACCC is aware of some local councils that have assembled their own integrated 
solution from third party suppliers. However, feedback suggests that this option may 
have increased delivery risks and added additional implementation costs for local 
councils. The possibility of “self-supply” by local councils therefore appears unlikely to 
provide a meaningful competitive constraint.  
Questions for market participants 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants regarding competition in the supply 
of end-to-end on-street parking solutions, on-street parking meters and on-street 
enforcement and infringement systems in Australia. Market participants may wish to 
comment on the following: 
• 
how closely Orikan and Duncan compete 
• 
the degree of competitive constraint provided by existing and upcoming 
providers of on-street parking end-to end solutions and standalone services (in 
your response please identify who these alternative suppliers are) 
• 
the height of barriers to timely entry and expansion of on-street parking service 
providers, including incumbency advantage and reputational risk 
• 
the advantage that end-to-end providers have over ‘best in-breed’ consortia 
when tendering for on-street parking services 
• 
the advantage that incumbent providers have over non-incumbent competitors 
when tendering for on-street parking services, and 
• 
the attractiveness of the Australian market for overseas on-street parking 
providers (including the extent to which they compete now, the likelihood they 
will compete in future and the names of the overseas providers likely to 
consider entry to the Australian market).  


Orikan Group Pty Ltd Proposed Acquisition of Duncan Technology Pty Ltd 
 
Page 11 of 13 
Issue of concern: foreclosure of standalone on-street parking 
service suppliers 
50. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the Proposed Acquisition is likely to substantially 
lessen competition in the supply of on-street parking apps, ANPR and parking sensors, 
through providing the merged entity with the ability and incentive to foreclose rival 
suppliers by preventing or frustrating integration of third-party products with the 
merged entity’s CMS (such as through charging high integration fees or delays). 
Ability to foreclose 
51. 
Duncan (through its parking CMS ‘PEMS’ and infringement system ‘AutoIssue’) and 
Orikan (through its parking CMS ‘Ezicom’ and infringement system ‘PinForce’) are 
currently incumbent CMS providers for a large proportion of Australian local councils 
that together represent a significant share of the addressable market for on-street 
parking services. By bringing together the two largest providers of CMS in Australia, the 
merged entity would operate the primary on-street parking hub for a large share of local 
councils through which competing standalone suppliers would need to ensure their 
products operate.  
52. 
Market feedback is that integration is not a particularly costly or technically complex 
process, relative to the size of on-street parking services projects. Suppliers of on-
street parking services have the technical capability and means to enable integration, 
enabling suppliers of standalone on-street parking services to currently form consortia 
enabling customers who prefer an end-to-end on-street parking solution to choose a 
‘best in breed’ solution. 
53. 
Integration relies on co-operation between different suppliers of on-street parking 
services to implement changes to make their products compatible, access data held in 
proprietary systems and to perform testing.  
• 
Where integration is in both suppliers’ interests, such as enhancing each supplier’s 
ability to contest and win competitive procurement processes, market participants 
report that integration is generally completed relatively quickly and inexpensively.  
• 
Where integration is not in the interests of one of the suppliers, market participants 
report that the supplier can frustrate the integration process through time delays 
and/or by quoting large fees to the local councils.  
54. 
Local councils appear to be able to somewhat mitigate against integration risks by 
including interoperability requirements in contracts with suppliers. These requirements 
may give rise to penalties if breached by suppliers and not remedied in a timely 
fashion. However, these contractual requirements may not always effectively ensure 
timely integration with third parties, for reasons including that:  
• 
local councils may find it difficult to establish a breach of these requirements 
where a supplier adopts subtle practices to frustrate integration, for example, 
attributing delays to technical issues. Similarly, it may be difficult for a council to 
determine which of the two suppliers is at fault for non-integration 
• 
local councils may be averse to entering into potentially costly or resource-
intensive legal disputes with suppliers, particularly given the challenges with 
establishing a breach outlined above, and 


Orikan Group Pty Ltd Proposed Acquisition of Duncan Technology Pty Ltd 
 
Page 12 of 13 
• 
suppliers are typically given the chance to rectify integration issues before facing 
penalties, meaning they can still delay or frustrate integration in the first instance 
and then take steps to avoid penalty if issues are ultimately raised by the council.  
Incentive to foreclose 
55. 
The ACCC is concerned that the merged entity would have the incentive to prevent or 
frustrate integration with its CMS (PEMS and AutoIssue and EziCom and PinForce), 
since it could discourage local councils from adopting a ‘best in breed’ approach and 
instead procure the full suite of products (i.e. apps, sensors and ANPR) from the 
merged entity.  
56. 
Market feedback is that some local councils have observed integration challenges 
elsewhere and factor such challenges into their assessment of whether to procure an 
end-to-end solution or adopt a ‘best in breed’ approach.  
57. 
Orikan currently offers an end-to-end solution, and therefore it could be argued that it 
may currently have an incentive to prevent or frustrate integration with its CMS absent 
the proposed acquisition. However, Duncan currently partners with third-party suppliers 
of parking apps, sensors and ANPR, and clearly has an incentive to integrate its CMS 
with them.  
58. 
Through the Proposed Acquisition, the merged entity would likely have a greater 
incentive to frustrate integration than Orikan or Duncan (absent the proposed 
acquisition).  
• 
While Orikan currently offers an end-to-end solution (and therefore may already 
have an incentive to prevent or frustrate integration with its CMS absent the 
Proposed Acquisition), the merged entity would be the incumbent CMS supplier for 
a larger share of the addressable market than Orikan and is likely to have an 
increased incentive to foreclose on suppliers of standalone services currently used 
by Duncan. The removal of Orikan’s main end-to-end on-street parking competitor 
(Duncan) would also potentially reduce the threat of retaliation from local councils.  
• 
Unlike Duncan, the merged entity would offer an end-to-end on-street parking 
solution including apps, sensors and ANPR.  
Effects of foreclosure 
59. 
If the merged firm were to adopt a foreclosure strategy, suppliers of standalone on-
street parking services may be prevented from supplying a large share of the 
addressable market, which could potentially cause them to exit. The foreclosure 
strategy could also deter new suppliers from entering. A reduction in the number of 
providers of parking apps, sensors or ANPR in Australia, would likely result in less 
competitive tender responses for local councils in terms of price and/or service levels. 
The ACCC is also concerned that the reduced competition and, in particular, the 
reduced incentives to develop ‘best in breed’ products due to potential integration 
concerns is likely to lead to less innovation.  
60. 
In relation to parking apps, the ACCC is concerned that the Proposed Acquisition could 
affect the transition away from hardware driven solutions (i.e. meters) to application-
based solutions. The transition to application-based solutions has the potential to 
reduce barriers to entry over time. Integration of apps into other on-street parking 


Orikan Group Pty Ltd Proposed Acquisition of Duncan Technology Pty Ltd 
 
Page 13 of 13 
services allows parking app suppliers to compete for customers based on the 
functionality of the app and associated user fees. However, the ACCC considers that 
competition for customers is unlikely to materialise where the merged firm has the 
ability and incentive to frustrate the integration of other parking service providers with 
its own parking solution suite.  
Questions for market participants 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants regarding:  
• 
the time and resources required to set up an existing integration for a new 
customer 
• 
the extent to which parking service suppliers could prevent, restrict, or 
frustrate rival parking service providers from integrating with their CMS, and 
• 
the degree to which customers have the countervailing power to enforce 
contract terms of integrations and the extent to which this power differs 
between larger and smaller local councils.  
ACCC's future steps 
61. 
As noted above, the ACCC invites submissions from market participants on each of the 
issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that may be 
relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. Submissions should be emailed to 
mergers@accc.gov.au by no later than 5pm on 19 December 2024. 
62. 
The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions invited by 
this Statement of Issues. 
63. 
The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 13 March 2025. However the 
anticipated timeline may change in line with the Informal Merger Review Process 
Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment explaining the ACCC's final view may be 
published following the ACCC's public announcement. 
