Page 1 of 28 
 
Statement of Issues 
15 March 2018 
 Pacific National / Linfox – Proposed acquisitions of 
intermodal assets from Aurizon  
Purpose 
1. 
Pacific National Pty Ltd (Pacific National) proposes to acquire: 
 
the Acacia Ridge Intermodal Terminal (Acacia Ridge Terminal) from 
Aurizon Holdings Limited (Aurizon) (the Acacia Ridge Acquisition); and 
 
Aurizon’s Queensland intermodal business (the Queensland Intermodal 
Acquisition), following which the pick-up and delivery side of that 
business will be transferred to Linfox, 
together, the Proposed Acquisitions. 
2. 
At the same time it announced the Proposed Acquisitions, Aurizon also 
announced that it was closing its interstate intermodal business. The ACCC is 
considering the closure as part of its assessment of the Proposed Acquisitions. 
3. 
This Statement of Issues: 
 
gives the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission’s (ACCC’s) 
preliminary views on competition issues arising from the Proposed 
Acquisitions 
 
identifies areas of further inquiry 
 
invites interested parties to submit comments and information to assist our 
assessment of the issues. 
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views 
4. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the Proposed Acquisitions 
is in section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the CCA). Section 
50 prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to have the 
effect, of substantially lessening competition in any market. 


Pacific National and Linfox – proposed acquisition of Aurizon’s intermodal assets 
 
Page 2 of 28 
5. 
The ACCC divides its preliminary views into three categories, 'issues of concern', 
'issues that may raise concerns' and ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’. 
Issues of concern 
6. 
The ACCC considers that Aurizon’s decision to exit its intermodal business, 
through a combination of sale to its closest competitor and closure of the 
remainder of that business, raises significant competition concerns   
7. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that: 
 
The Queensland Intermodal Acquisition is likely to substantially lessen 
competition for the supply of intermodal rail linehaul services on 
Queensland’s North Coast Line. This may result in increased prices or a 
decrease in service levels.  
 
The Proposed Acquisitions are likely to increase barriers to entry for the 
supply of intermodal rail linehaul services (both interstate and within 
Queensland), leading to a substantial lessening of competition in the 
markets for intermodal rail linehaul interstate and within Queensland. The 
ACCC is concerned that if Pacific National owns the Acacia Ridge 
Terminal, it will have the ability and incentive to increase barriers to new 
intermodal rail entrants who would compete with Pacific National.  
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that an undertaking by Pacific National to 
provide third parties with access to the Acacia Ridge Terminal will not 
adequately resolve the competition concerns arising from the Proposed 
Acquisitions. 
Issues that may raise concerns 
8. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the Queensland Intermodal Acquisition may 
raise concerns in the market for bulk freight (distinct from intermodal) rail linehaul 
services in Queensland. If an entity other than Pacific National acquired 
Aurizon’s Queensland intermodal business, that entity may face lower barriers to 
expanding into the provision of bulk freight rail services in Queensland. 
9. 
The ACCC is concerned about the effect on competition for the supply of 
interstate intermodal services as a result of Aurizon’s decision to close its 
interstate intermodal operations. The ACCC is considering whether Aurizon’s 
decision to close these operations may be linked to the Proposed Acquisitions 
for the purposes of section 50 of the CCA, and therefore may raise concerns in 
the market for interstate intermodal rail services. 
Making a submission 
10. 
The ACCC is seeking submissions from interested parties, particularly on the 
following key issues: 
 
whether road and / or sea freight operators are likely to effectively 
constrain Pacific National from raising prices or decreasing services for 
intermodal rail services on the Queensland North Coast Line 


Pacific National and Linfox – proposed acquisition of Aurizon’s intermodal assets 
 
Page 3 of 28 
 
whether the undertaking proposed by Pacific National for third party rail 
operators to access the Acacia Ridge Terminal resolves competition 
concerns arising from the Proposed Acquisitions 
 
the likely state of the relevant markets if the Proposed Acquisitions do not 
proceed, including the likelihood of an alternative purchaser acquiring 
Aurizon’s Queensland intermodal business and/or the Acacia Ridge 
Terminal and the effect this may have on barriers to entry for the supply of 
intermodal rail services. 
11. 
Detailed discussion of these and other issues, along with specific questions, is 
contained in this Statement of Issues.  
12. 
Interested parties should provide submissions by no later than 5pm on 3 April 
2018. Responses may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: 
Submission re: Pacific National Aurizon - attention Bruce Mikkelsen/Joe 
Saunders. If you would like to discuss the matter with ACCC officers over the 
telephone or in person, or have any questions about this Statement of Issues, 
please contact Bruce Mikkelsen on 03 9658 6501 or Joe Saunders on 
02 6243 1334.  
13. 
The ACCC anticipates making a final decision on 24 May 2018, however, this 
timeline can change. To keep abreast of possible changes in relation to timing 
and to find relevant documents, interested parties should visit the Mergers 
Register on the ACCC's website at www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
Confidentiality of submissions 
14. 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the Proposed Acquisitions. We 
will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) 
unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation 
or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition 
and Consumer Act 2010.  Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where possible so that you may 
have an opportunity to be heard.  Therefore, if the information provided to the 
ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’ 
15. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about the 
Proposed Acquisitions, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well 
as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
16. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
interested parties with the basis for making further submissions should they 
consider it necessary. 


Pacific National and Linfox – proposed acquisition of Aurizon’s intermodal assets 
 
Page 4 of 28 
Timeline 
 
Date 
Event 
27 October 2017 
 
29 November 2017 
 
6 December 2017 
 
18 January 2018 
 
15 March 2018 
 
3 April 2018 
 
24 May 2018 
ACCC commenced review of the Proposed 
Acquisitions 
ACCC requested further information from Pacific 
National 
ACCC request further information Aurizon 
Former proposed decision date of 1 February 2018 
delayed to allow provision of requested information.  
ACCC publishes Statement of Issues 
Closing date for submissions relating to Statement of 
Issues. 
Proposed date for announcement of ACCC’s 
decision.   
 
The parties 
Pacific National 
17. 
Pacific National is a national rail freight operator with bulk and intermodal 
haulage operations. It owns narrow, standard and broad gauge rolling stock, and 
related rail facilities.  
18. 
Pacific National is the largest provider of intermodal rail freight services in 
Australia and within Queensland. It provides containerised freight services, steel 
distribution services, and hook and pull services for passenger trains. Pacific 
National also provides bulk haulage of coal, grain, minerals, concentrate and 
construction materials by rail in Queensland, New South Wales, Western 
Australia, Victoria and South Australia. It does not generally own or operate 
below rail services, but makes use of such services provided by rail network 
operators. 
Aurizon 
19. 
Aurizon is a national freight haulage company, established in 2010 through the 
privatisation of the former Queensland Government-owned QR National freight 
business. Aurizon has an “above rail” business and a “below rail” business, and 
provides a range of related services in rail design, engineering, construction, 
management and maintenance.  


Pacific National and Linfox – proposed acquisition of Aurizon’s intermodal assets 
 
Page 5 of 28 
20. 
Aurizon’s above rail business comprises bulk haulage operations for 
commodities, including base metals, minerals, grains and livestock in 
Queensland, New South Wales and Western Australia, and, currently, the 
provision of intermodal freight services in Queensland. 
21. 
Aurizon’s intermodal operations in Queensland comprise a rail linehaul service 
operating from Brisbane (at both the Acacia Ridge Terminal and the Port of 
Brisbane) through far north Queensland, and a road based pick-up and delivery 
service to move freight between its rail terminals and customers’ premises. 
22. 
Prior to the closure of its interstate intermodal business, Aurizon operated 
intermodal rail freight services across Australia, with a fleet of locomotives, 
wagons, and containers and modified containers, as well as the operation of 40 
depots across Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia and 
Western Australia, and freehold and leasehold interests in intermodal terminals 
in New South Wales, Victoria, and South Australia. 
23. 
Aurizon’s below rail business comprises the operation and management of 
2,670km narrow gauge rail infrastructure, known as the Central Queensland 
Coal Network, which connects coal mines to ports by rail in Queensland and 
includes sections of track used by Pacific National and Aurizon in intermodal rail 
linehaul. 
Linfox 
24. 
Linfox is Australia’s largest privately owned logistics company, providing freight 
forwarding and storage services operating across the Fast Moving Consumer 
Goods, retail, resources & industrial, intermodal and Government & Defence 
industry sectors. 
25. 
Linfox’s intermodal business includes a fleet of 5,000 trucks through which it 
provides ambient, cubic and refrigerated road transport services. It has 3,000 
specialised rail containers to suit cubic, refrigerated and flat rack equipment. 
Linfox operates out of 14 rail depots across Australia. 
Other industry participants 
SCT Logistics 
26. 
SCT Logistics (SCT) is one of Australia’s largest private rail freight operators. It 
is a vertically integrated freight forwarder with its own rail operation, and provides 
some limited rail linehaul services to other freight forwarders.   
27. 
SCT has developed rail terminals in Victoria, Western Australia, South Australia 
and New South Wales, and recently opened an intermodal terminal at Bromelton 
in south east Queensland. 
Qube 
28. 
Qube is Australia’s largest integrated provider of import and export logistics 
services, with operations in its Port & Bulk and Logistics divisions across New 
South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia and Queensland.  


Pacific National and Linfox – proposed acquisition of Aurizon’s intermodal assets 
 
Page 6 of 28 
29. 
Qube is currently engaged in an agreement with Aurizon under which it provides 
terminal services at the Acacia Ridge Terminal. Qube is also a freight forwarder 
and a customer using intermodal rail services. 
Genesee & Wyoming Australia 
30. 
Genesee & Wyoming Australia operates above rail services in New South 
Wales, the Northern Territory and South Australia. Genesee & Wyoming 
provides intermodal services and intrastate haulage of bulk commodities on the 
Adelaide to Darwin corridor and provides a coal haulage service in New South 
Wales. Genesee & Wyoming does not offer intermodal services in competition 
with Pacific National or Aurizon on interstate routes or within Queensland. 
Other freight forwarders  
31. 
Freight forwarders acquire intermodal rail linehaul services ‘wholesale’ from 
Pacific National and Aurizon, and then provide freight owners with an end-to-end 
freight solution incorporating the rail linehaul. Currently, Toll is the largest freight 
forwarder in Queensland. Other freight forwarders in Queensland include 
Lindsay Transport, Blenner’s Transport, Hellmann Worldwide Logistics, and 
Applied Logistics. 
32. 
Linfox does not currently have a significant freight forwarding presence in 
Queensland.  
Industry background 
Intermodal rail freight haulage 
33. 
In this Statement of Issues, the term ‘intermodal’ is used to describe the carriage 
of typically non-bulk or general freight in containerised, palletised and/or parcel 
configurations on behalf of customers, although it includes some ‘bulk’ freight 
hauled in containers. It is distinguished from bulk freight haulage, in which 
operators carry loose bulk commodities such as coal, minerals, and agricultural 
products. Pacific National and Aurizon have historically been the two largest 
providers of intermodal rail freight services in Australia. 
34. 
To provide these services, operators generally own flat wagons on which whole 
containers (including modified containers for special loads) are loaded and 
transported by rail to a terminal near the destination. On arriving at the terminal, 
the freight is unloaded and generally trucked to the end customer’s destination. 
35. 
Customers of intermodal rail linehaul services are either freight forwarders or 
beneficial freight owners (BFO). Freight forwarders arrange for the transportation 
of a BFO’s freight from origin to destination by rail or road or a combination of 
both. Where a rail linehaul service is involved in a freight movement, a freight 
forwarder will perform the pick-up and delivery function to and from the rail 
terminal and the rail linehaul operator (for example, Pacific National or Aurizon) 
will provide the rail service itself. In this respect, freight forwarders acquire rail 
linehaul services on a ‘wholesale’ level from rail linehaul operators and then 
package it, with the pick-up and delivery service, for BFOs. Both Pacific National 
and Aurizon offer ‘wholesale’ rail linehaul services to freight forwarders. 


Pacific National and Linfox – proposed acquisition of Aurizon’s intermodal assets 
 
Page 7 of 28 
36. 
While SCT provides rail freight services, some market participants view SCT’s 
offering as differentiated from Pacific National or Aurizon’s rail linehaul services. 
SCT offers limited wholesale linehaul services for containerised freight to freight 
forwarders. Instead, SCT contracts directly with BFOs and generally packs 
freight itself into its specialised louvre vans (rather than containers on wagons).  
37. 
As well as acquiring services from freight forwarders, BFOs may enter an 
arrangement directly with the rail linehaul service provider. As Aurizon’s 
intermodal operations in Queensland includes pick-up and delivery services and 
road linehaul, its customers are often BFOs.  
Rail networks in Australia 
38. 
In general terms, intermodal rail linehaul services are provided as follows: 
 
On the Queensland narrow gauge network by Aurizon and Pacific National 
 
On the east–west (i.e. Melbourne/Sydney/Adelaide to/from Perth) and 
north–south (i.e. Melbourne/Sydney to/from Brisbane) interstate corridors 
by Pacific National and SCT.  Prior to the closure of Aurizon’s interstate 
intermodal business, Aurizon competed with Pacific National and SCT on 
the east–west and north–south corridors 
 
From Adelaide to Darwin by Genesee & Wyoming. 
39. 
The principal regional freight and passenger line in Queensland is known as the 
North Coast Line, which runs along coastal Queensland between Brisbane (in 
the south) and Cairns (in the north). The North Coast Line is a narrow gauge rail 
track and can only be utilised by locomotives and rollingstock calibrated for the 
narrow gauge. Figure 1 below shows the locations of Pacific National and 
Aurizon’s intermodal rail terminals on the North Coast Line. 


Pacific National and Linfox – proposed acquisition of Aurizon’s intermodal assets 
 
Page 8 of 28 
Figure 1: The North Coast Line and location of terminals 
 
Source: Pacific National 
40. 
The east–west corridor runs between each of Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and 
Perth and is a standard gauge track. Pacific National’s rail linehaul and SCT’s 
integrated service are provided between Melbourne and Adelaide and Perth. 
Pacific National provides a service between Sydney and Perth, and SCT, which 
does not run trains to Sydney, provides a service from Parkes (west of Sydney) 
to Perth. 
41. 
The north–south corridor extends from Melbourne to Brisbane, and includes 
terminals in Sydney, regional Victoria and regional New South Wales. Pacific 
National operates intermodal rail linehaul services between each of Melbourne, 
Sydney and Brisbane. SCT operates its trains between Melbourne and Brisbane, 
and has a terminal at Wodonga, but does not service Melbourne to Sydney 
directly or Sydney to Brisbane directly by rail. 
42. 
Due to the break of gauge from standard gauge to narrow gauge in Brisbane, 
freight travelling north of Brisbane from other parts of Australia must be 
transferred from the standard gauge network, at one of the standard gauge 
terminals in south east Queensland, to the narrow gauge network (or vice-versa 
for freight travelling south through Brisbane).  


Pacific National and Linfox – proposed acquisition of Aurizon’s intermodal assets 
 
Page 9 of 28 
The Proposed Acquisitions 
43. 
Aurizon is exiting its intermodal freight haulage business through a combination 
of sale and closure. 
44. 
Pacific National proposes to acquire Aurizon’s Acacia Ridge Terminal and 
Aurizon’s Queensland intermodal business. 
45. 
Aurizon has closed the remainder of its intermodal business, being the interstate 
intermodal business, and has sold or is intending to sell some of the assets to 
various parties. 
Acacia Ridge Acquisition 
46. 
In addition to owning the land and assets of the Acacia Ridge Terminal, Aurizon 
provides yard operations, fleet maintenance operations, engineering and 
technology, and safety, health and environment services at the terminal, and 
leases several areas of the terminal to third parties for specific uses, including 
warehouse storage, maintenance services and office areas.  
47. 
Under the Acacia Ridge Acquisition, Pacific National would acquire Aurizon’s 
freehold title to the Acacia Ridge Terminal site as well as the assets and fixtures 
on the terminal site and the leases and contracts for third party services at the 
terminal. 
48. 
Pacific National has provided the ACCC with a proposed undertaking pursuant to 
section 87B of the CCA (the Proposed Undertaking) relating to access at the 
Acacia Ridge Terminal. The Proposed Undertaking is available on the ACCC’s 
mergers public register (www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister) and is discussed 
further below. 
Queensland Intermodal Acquisition 
49. 
Aurizon’s Queensland intermodal business comprises two aspects – a rail 
linehaul service and an integrated freight forwarding service using trucks to take 
freight to and from the railhead.  
50. 
The rail linehaul business provides terminal-to-terminal rail haulage services 
from the Acacia Ridge Terminal to destinations along the North Coast Line to 
Cairns (and return), and from the Port of Brisbane to Gladstone, Rockhampton, 
Mackay and Townsville (and return). 
51. 
The freight forwarding side of the business supplies a pick-up and delivery 
service of containerised and less than container load freight undertaken by road. 
A freight owner may therefore engage Aurizon for a ‘door to door’ freight solution 
comprising a central rail component bookended by short road trips to pick up and 
deliver the freight to and from the rail terminal. 
52. 
To give effect to the Queensland Intermodal Acquisition, Pacific National and 
Aurizon have entered into a Business Sale Agreement under which Aurizon 
would sell its whole Queensland intermodal business to Pacific National 
(including rail and trucking components). A second agreement has been entered 
into by Pacific National and Linfox, under which Pacific National would sell the 
pick-up and delivery business and assets to Linfox. 


Pacific National and Linfox – proposed acquisition of Aurizon’s intermodal assets 
 
Page 10 of 28 
53. 
Pacific National would ultimately acquire and retain the following assets: 
 
leases or licences over terminal sites on the North Coast Line (located in 
Cairns, Gladstone, Townsville, Rockhampton, Mackay, Merinda, 
Maryborough and Innisfail) 
 
narrow gauge rollingstock 
 
plant and equipment (including heavy lift forklifts, rubber tyre gantry cranes 
and small forklifts) 
 
access agreements with below rail operators Queensland Rail and Aurizon 
to operate the above rail linehaul services 
 
rail linehaul contracts with Aurizon’s Queensland customers who do not 
have a pick-up and delivery component. 
54. 
Aurizon would also assign contracts necessary for its linehaul business, 
including terminal services agreements for the Acacia Ridge Terminal, rail 
network access and connection agreements, and supplier agreements between 
road transport operators and Aurizon and other ancillary agreements. 
55. 
Linfox would then ultimately acquire the following assets: 
 
employees of Aurizon’s pick-up and delivery service 
 
sub-contracts with third party carriers (for example, trucking providers) for 
pick-up and delivery services 
 
trucks (including prime movers and triaxle trailers) 
 
containers 
 
leased trailers and leased containers 
 
light lift equipment (3 tonne forklifts) 
 
contracts with Aurizon’s Queensland customers who have a pick-up and 
delivery component. 
56. 
The ACCC understands that, following the Queensland Intermodal Acquisition, 
Linfox’s operation of the pick-up and delivery business would be separate from 
Pacific National’s operation of the rail linehaul component and that Linfox would 
compete with Toll and other freight forwarders in acquiring wholesale intermodal 
rail linehaul services from Pacific National on the North Coast Line. 
Closure of Aurizon’s interstate intermodal business 
57. 
As outlined above, the Proposed Acquisitions were announced by Aurizon as 
part of its overall exit from intermodal operations, which included the closure of 
the remainder of Aurizon’s intermodal business, being its interstate business. 
The closure commenced in September 2017. The ACCC understands that it was 
completed by 31 December 2017. 


Pacific National and Linfox – proposed acquisition of Aurizon’s intermodal assets 
 
Page 11 of 28 
58. 
Following Aurizon’s exit from the interstate intermodal market, SCT and Pacific 
National are the only remaining suppliers of intermodal rail services on the 
north–south and east–west corridors, on which Aurizon previously operated.  
59. 
The ACCC is considering the Proposed Acquisitions in the context of Aurizon’s 
closure of its interstate intermodal business and is considering whether Aurizon’s 
decision to close these operations may be linked to the Proposed Acquisitions, 
and therefore may raise concerns in the market for interstate intermodal rail 
services. 
Future with and without the Proposed Acquisitions  
60. 
Section 50 of the Act prohibits mergers or acquisitions that would have the effect 
or be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
In assessing a proposed acquisition pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC 
considers the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future competitive 
environment post-acquisition if the acquisition proceeds (the “with” position) to 
the likely future competitive environment if the acquisition does not proceed (the 
“without” position) to determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in any relevant market. 
Future without – Queensland Intermodal 
61. 
The ACCC is continuing to consider the likely future of the relevant market in the 
absence of the Queensland Intermodal Acquisition. The ACCC notes that on 12 
February 2018, Aurizon made an announcement to the ASX that included a 
statement that, “if the ACCC does not ultimately approve the sale of Queensland 
Intermodal, it will be closed”.1  
62. 
The ACCC is considering Aurizon’s position, alongside submissions received 
during market inquiries that Aurizon’s Queensland intermodal business remains 
an attractive prospect for an alternative purchaser, particularly if the Acacia 
Ridge Terminal was also acquired by that purchaser, or acquired by an 
independent third party which was not vertically integrated with above rail 
operations.  
63. 
The ACCC’s preliminary assessment outlined in this Statement of Issues is 
based on the assumption that Aurizon’s Queensland intermodal business would 
be sold to a third party and continue to operate in the absence of the Proposed 
Acquisitions.  
64. 
The ACCC will consider the likely future without the Queensland Intermodal 
Acquisition closely as part of its ongoing investigation.  
Future without – Acacia Ridge Terminal 
65. 
The ACCC considers that the Acacia Ridge Terminal is an attractive and high 
quality infrastructure asset. The ACCC considers that, in the future without the 
sale of the terminal to Pacific National, an alternative third party would acquire 
the terminal. 
                                                 
 
1 Aurizon Holdings Limited, ASX Announcement 12 February 2018 “Half Year Results Analyst 
Presentation”: https://www.asx.com.au/asxpdf/20180212/pdf/43rhbgr68375lb.pdf. 


Pacific National and Linfox – proposed acquisition of Aurizon’s intermodal assets 
 
Page 12 of 28 
Future without – interstate intermodal 
66. 
The ACCC is also assessing whether Aurizon’s decision to close its interstate 
business may be linked to the Proposed Acquisitions and, consequently, 
relevant to the ACCC’s assessment of the Proposed Acquisitions under section 
50 of the CCA. 
67. 
The ACCC has not formed a preliminary view on this issue, and will continue to 
consider it as part of its investigation.  
 Market definition 
68. 
The ACCC’s starting point for delineating relevant markets to assess the 
competitive effects of the Proposed Acquisitions involves identifying the products 
actually or potentially supplied by the merger parties. The ACCC then considers 
what other products constitute sufficiently close substitutes to provide a 
significant source of competitive constraint on the merged entity. 
69. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the key relevant markets in which to 
consider the Proposed Acquisitions are markets for the supply of: 
 
intermodal rail linehaul services on the North Coast Line 
 
intermodal rail linehaul services interstate 
 
narrow gauge rail terminal services for intermodal freight in south east 
Queensland 
 
standard gauge rail terminal services for intermodal freight in south east 
Queensland. 
70. 
The Proposed Acquisitions may also have impacts in markets for the supply of: 
 
freight forwarding services in Queensland 
 
rail linehaul services for bulk freight in Queensland. 
71. 
The above markets are discussed in detail throughout the competition analysis 
below. 
Issue of concern: reduction of competition in the supply of 
intermodal rail linehaul services on the North Coast Line 
72. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the Queensland Intermodal Acquisition is 
likely to substantially lessen competition in the market for the supply of 
intermodal rail linehaul services on the North Coast Line. 
73. 
Currently, Pacific National and Aurizon are the only providers of intermodal rail 
linehaul services on the North Coast Line. The Queensland Intermodal 
Acquisition would remove Pacific National’s only intermodal rail linehaul 
competitor in Queensland. 


Pacific National and Linfox – proposed acquisition of Aurizon’s intermodal assets 
 
Page 13 of 28 
74. 
The ACCC considers that alternative freight haulage services in Queensland, 
such as by road or sea, will not provide an effective competitive constraint post-
acquisition, allowing Pacific National to increase prices and/or decrease service 
(such as the frequency and/or quality of services, including reliability of services) 
for the supply of intermodal rail linehaul services in Queensland. 
Whether road and sea freight in the same market as rail 
75. 
The ACCC is considering whether intermodal freight services provided by road 
and by rail operators (and potentially shipping operators) are sufficiently close 
substitutes to be considered in the same market as rail linehaul on the North 
Coast Line.  
76. 
On the basis of market inquiries, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that road freight 
providers do not effectively constrain rail freight providers sufficiently to be 
considered part of a combined broader market for intermodal freight haulage for 
destinations between Brisbane and Cairns. 
77. 
Market inquiries have indicated that the substitutability of road and rail for 
different types and volumes of freight is determined by both price and non-price 
factors.  
78. 
The ACCC understands that road freight is generally faster, as there are no strict 
cut off times, and in some cases more reliable as it is less prone to delay due to 
weather or maintenance events. For these reasons, road freight is considered 
better for goods with a short shelf life or otherwise with highly time sensitive 
delivery. Transport by road is also considered to be gentler on freight than 
transport by rail, making it more suitable for moving easily damaged goods. The 
flexibility of transport by a truck can make road freight more appropriate for 
products which need to be collected from a farm gate or a destination sufficiently 
far from the nearest rail terminal, such that the pick-up and delivery component 
would extend the total price and journey time. 
79. 
In contrast, the ACCC understands that certain heavy construction materials and 
other goods requiring specialised or modified containers are more appropriately 
carried by rail. Market feedback has indicated that freight owners moving large 
volumes of non-perishable or long-shelf life perishable goods view rail as the 
more appropriate mode over longer distances due to its tonnage and volume 
capacity, lack of time sensitivity and lower price. Furthermore, many freight 
owners have indicated a preference for rail due to some non-price benefits, such 
as environmental benefits and a reduction in trucks on roads. 
80. 
Outside these specific instances in which road or rail have inherent advantages, 
the ACCC understands that price is the key determinant of modal choice. Market 
participants have referred to a ‘tipping point’ (varying between 600-1000km, or 
roughly the distance between Brisbane to Rockhampton or Mackay) at which rail 
is significantly cheaper than road. The ACCC has received information from 
individual market participants about rates for rail and road haulage quoted during 
competitive tender processes. Examples provided to the ACCC indicate that for 
freight carried beyond this tipping point, from Brisbane to Townsville / Cairns, 
road has been quoted as significantly more expensive than rail, with examples 
ranging from 15% more expensive to 300% more expensive.  
81. 
Further, market inquiries have indicated that where goods can appropriately be 
hauled by rail, then, at least for routes beyond the ‘tipping point’, they tend to 


Pacific National and Linfox – proposed acquisition of Aurizon’s intermodal assets 
 
Page 14 of 28 
almost always be hauled by rail. The ACCC has received tender information 
from a variety of market participants which shows that requests for tender for 
freight tasks from Brisbane to Cairns or Townsville are often only offered to or 
received by rail-based solutions. Market participants have provided the ACCC 
with a consistent message that unless their freight particularly requires road 
transport (for example, because it has a short shelf life and is easily damaged), 
they generally do not consider road as an option past this tipping point.  
82. 
In response to market inquiries on switching behaviour, freight owners and 
freight forwarders have indicated to the ACCC that switching is, in most 
circumstances, confined to switching between Aurizon and Pacific National’s rail 
linehaul services (contracted through freight forwarders or directly with Aurizon), 
with the competitive tension between the two rail companies leading to benefits 
for freight owners.  
83. 
Market participants did not report switching between road and rail linehaul 
except in limited circumstances such as where the rail line is closed due to 
flooding. The ACCC does not consider this to indicate close substitution. 
84. 
On the basis of market inquiries, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the demand 
for road and rail intermodal freight on the North Coast Line is segmented. Some 
customers have specific freight that is most appropriately carried by road, which 
will remain the case. For freight that is technically able to be carried by either 
road or rail, there is a cost differential that becomes significant at around the 
Brisbane to Rockhampton or Brisbane to Mackay distance. The fact that many 
tenders for these freight tasks are only offered to, or received by, rail linehaul 
services, and the fact that participants report very little switching between 
modes, indicates that customers do not significantly rely on competitive tension 
or constraint between rail and road to drive better prices or services.  
85. 
The ACCC notes that, should new evidence demonstrate a degree of switching, 
it is likely that the ACCC’s competition concerns would remain because the 
degree of constraint exerted by road freight would be unlikely to sufficiently 
discipline Pacific National. 
86. 
The ACCC has also considered whether sea freight is a substitutable service to 
Pacific National and Aurizon’s intermodal rail linehaul service. Market inquiries 
indicated that sea freight is in most cases not a viable alternative to rail freight for 
intra-Queensland movements, including because of minimum tonnage 
requirements and longer transit times which makes sea unsuitable for many 
types of freight and also increases cost of capital to hold goods during transit. 
Closeness of competition between Pacific National and Aurizon on the North 
Coast Line 
87. 
Pacific National entered the Queensland market in 2005 and began competing 
with Aurizon for the provision of intermodal rail linehaul services. Pacific National 
was, at the time, a joint venture between Toll and Patrick Corporation. The 
ACCC understands that Toll’s volume and requirements were significant to the 
viability of Pacific National’s entry. 
88. 
Market participants have indicated to the ACCC that following Pacific National’s 
entry to the market, price and non-price aspects of intermodal rail linehaul 
services improved, and customers benefited from competitive tension when 
tendering for services.  


Pacific National and Linfox – proposed acquisition of Aurizon’s intermodal assets 
 
Page 15 of 28 
89. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that, by removing the only significant competitive 
constraint on Pacific National, the Queensland Intermodal Proposed Acquisition 
will substantially lessen competition in the supply of intermodal rail services on 
the North Coast Line. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the level of competition from 
road and sea for intermodal freight haulage on the North Coast Line.  In particular, 
market participants may wish to comment on the following: 
 
The price differential between rail and road (as an end-to-end cost including pick-
up and delivery costs) for different types of freight tasks. Explain the factors that 
contribute to any cost differential. 
 
If you are a freight owner or freight forwarder and have switched between rail and 
road for a given route, why?  
 
If you are a freight owner or freight forwarder and have switched between Aurizon 
and Pacific National’s rail linehaul service for a given route, why? 
 
If you are a freight owner or freight forwarder and have switched between rail and 
sea for a given route, why? 
Barriers to entry  
90. 
In considering whether an acquisition may substantially lessen competition, the 
ACCC takes into account the likelihood of a new entrant coming into the market 
and imposing competitive constraint on the existing participants. 
91. 
Market inquiries indicate that barriers to entry into intermodal rail linehaul in 
Queensland are high. The ACCC understands that, in particular, a new entrant 
would require: 
 
narrow gauge rollingstock and locomotives 
 
access to intermodal terminal capacity in Brisbane and along the North 
Coast Line, and access to below rail train paths that allow for delivery 
times and frequency of service to meet customer needs 
 
sufficient customer contracts (or sufficient volume) to sustain entry.  
92. 
The ACCC considers that each of these requirements presents a significant 
barrier to an entrant, and notes that, generally, market participants consider it 
highly unlikely that a new entrant would commence intermodal rail operations on 
the North Coast Line in the short to medium term. 
93. 
Pacific National and Linfox submit that, should Pacific National attempt to 
increase prices for its rail linehaul service on the North Coast Line, customers 
(for example, Linfox or Toll) could sponsor the entry of a new intermodal rail 
operator to compete with Pacific National. 
94. 
The ACCC considers that it is unlikely that a customer or small group of 
customers could enable an entrant to overcome the barriers to entry outlined 
above. In particular, other than Toll, no single customer (or small group of 


Pacific National and Linfox – proposed acquisition of Aurizon’s intermodal assets 
 
Page 16 of 28 
customers) carriers sufficient volume in Queensland to make entry into 
Queensland viable for an entrant. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the potential for a new 
intermodal rail operator to enter the North Coast Line.  In particular, market 
participants may wish to comment on the following: 
 
If you are a customer of intermodal rail services on the North Coast Line, would it 
be feasible for you, either alone or with other customers, to sponsor a new 
operator to begin intermodal rail services to compete with Pacific National? What 
steps would need to be taken for this to be successful? 
Countervailing power 
95. 
The ACCC is also considering the extent to which customers of Pacific National 
in Queensland, who also acquire services from Pacific National outside of 
Queensland, could switch or threaten to switch away from services they acquire 
from Pacific National outside Queensland to competitively constrain its rail 
service in Queensland. 
96. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that customers are unlikely to be able to credibly 
threaten to move away from Pacific National in other states to constrain Pacific 
National’s pricing in Queensland, and have not been successful in the past when 
they have attempted to constrain prices for intermodal rail haulage in this way. 
Customers select the best service available to them outside of Queensland, and 
would need to punish themselves if they switched to an alternative provider in an 
attempt to discipline Pacific National’s prices in Queensland. The ACCC is not 
convinced that freight owners or freight forwarders would switch, or credibly 
threaten to switch, to an inferior service in an attempt to constrain pricing in 
Queensland, particularly in circumstances where there is not a viable alternative 
in Queensland. 
97. 
Further, in the event that this form of constraint does exist, the ACCC considers 
that it would not materially lessen the competition concerns arising from the 
removal of Aurizon, primarily because: 
 
Some customers are based only in Queensland, or use rail only in 
Queensland, and have no ability to attempt to discipline Pacific National 
through actions outside Queensland  
 
Aurizon has exited the interstate market, leaving SCT as the only other 
intermodal rail freight operator in competition with Pacific National. 
Although SCT provides services in the movement of freight by rail, market 
inquiries indicated that it is generally not a substitutable service to that 
provided by Pacific National (as discussed above). Further, freight 
forwarders are unlikely to engage with SCT as SCT is a direct competitor 
to freight forwarders. 
98. 
Further, the ACCC is aware of the reverse situation occurring, in which a 
customer with viable alternatives to rail for part of their freight spend intended to 
move that part of their freight to road from rail, and was thwarted by a retaliatory 
threat by the rail provider signalling a significant cost increase to that part of the 
customer’s freight which could only economically be carried by rail. 


Pacific National and Linfox – proposed acquisition of Aurizon’s intermodal assets 
 
Page 17 of 28 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to 
whether customers would be able to constrain Pacific National’s supply of intermodal 
rail haulage services on the North Coast Line by exercising countervailing power. In 
particular, market participants may wish to comment or provide information on:  
 
any examples of customers being able to exert countervailing power through 
threatening to move away some of their volume from intermodal rail haulage 
suppliers to other options to constrain the pricing charged by intermodal rail 
haulage suppliers 
 
the ability of customers to constrain the pricing of Pacific National on the North 
Coast Line post acquisition by threatening to move volumes to road, or SCT in 
other states. 
Impact on freight forwarding market in Queensland 
99. 
The ACCC considers that the removal of Aurizon as an intermodal rail operator 
in Queensland may also raise concerns in the market for the supply of freight 
forwarding services in Queensland. 
100. While Linfox will replace Aurizon as a large freight forwarder in Queensland, it 
and other freight forwarders will only have the choice of one rail linehaul provider 
in Queensland if the Queensland Intermodal Acquisition proceeds. Currently, 
freight forwarders are able to approach either Pacific National or Aurizon for 
wholesale intermodal rail linehaul services. The competition between Pacific 
National and Aurizon may provide opportunities for smaller freight forwarders to 
compete in the freight forwarding market. 
101. Market inquiries have indicated that, with the removal of competition from 
Aurizon, Pacific National may have more control over the train capacity made 
available to freight forwarders (for example, by being more able to run services 
only once a train is fully utilised) and over the terms on which it services freight 
forwarders generally.  
102. Market participants have raised concerns that only the largest freight forwarders, 
such as Toll and Linfox (in the future with the acquisition) would have the ability 
to effectively compete in these circumstances and that smaller freight forwarders 
may not be able to effectively obtain capacity on Pacific National’s rail linehaul 
service.   
The ACCC is considering this issue and invites comments from market participants on 
whether the Queensland Intermodal Acquisition may impact the freight forwarding 
market in Queensland. In particular, market participants may wish to comment on the 
following: 
 
whether the removal of Aurizon’s intermodal rail operations in Queensland will 
result in an ability for Pacific National to alter the provision of wholesale services to 
freight forwarders 
 
whether that alteration may reduce the ability for smaller freight forwarders to 
compete in Queensland. 


Pacific National and Linfox – proposed acquisition of Aurizon’s intermodal assets 
 
Page 18 of 28 
Issue of concern: increased barriers to entry into the 
supply of intermodal rail services 
103. Based upon its inquiries to date, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the 
Proposed Acquisitions are likely to substantially lessen competition for the 
supply of intermodal rail services on both the North Coast Line and interstate by 
increasing barriers to entry into those markets.  
104. The ACCC is concerned the Proposed Acquisitions increase barriers to entry for 
intermodal rail services for the following reasons: 
 
Pacific National’s ownership of the Acacia Ridge Terminal would give 
Pacific National the ability and incentive to deny, restrict, limit or otherwise 
provide disadvantageous terminal access and terminal capacity to a 
potential entrant 
 
conversely, a third party owner of the Acacia Ridge Terminal may either 
encourage entry into intermodal rail linehaul services by another operator, 
or commence providing intermodal rail linehaul services themselves in 
competition with Pacific National 
 
a third party acquirer of Aurizon’s Queensland intermodal business may 
face lower barriers to then also enter into interstate intermodal rail 
operations than would be the case if  Pacific National acquired that 
business. 
105. The ACCC notes that Pacific National has offered a court-enforceable 
undertaking aimed at providing access to third parties to the Acacia Ridge 
Terminal. The proposed undertaking is discussed further below. 
Rail terminal services in south east Queensland 
106. Rail freight terminals provide rail operators, freight forwarders and freight owners 
with facilities and services to enable the efficient movement, consolidation and 
distribution of freight. Rail operators require facilities to load and unload trains, 
maintenance facilities, areas to marshal trains, and yard areas, while freight 
owners and freight forwarders require access to terminal sidings and 
warehousing to pick-up, deliver, and consolidate freight for further distribution.     
107. Pacific National, through its ownership of the narrow gauge terminal at 
Tennyson, and Aurizon, through its ownership of the Acacia Ridge Terminal, 
overlap in the supply of intermodal terminal services in south east Queensland. 
108. There are four intermodal terminals located in south east Queensland: 
 
the Acacia Ridge Terminal, owned and operated by Aurizon (with some 
services provided by Qube) 
 
the Tennyson (Moolabbin), owned and operated by Pacific National  
 
the Port of Brisbane Multimodal Terminal (BMT) operated by the Port of 
Brisbane 
 
SCT’s terminal at Bromelton. 


Pacific National and Linfox – proposed acquisition of Aurizon’s intermodal assets 
 
Page 19 of 28 
109. The Acacia Ridge Terminal is a dual gauge terminal located approximately 12 
kilometres south of the Brisbane CBD. It comprises two distinct areas known as 
the Brisbane Multi-User Terminal (BMUT) and the Queensland Terminal. The 
BMUT is a standard gauge terminal and supports the interstate transport of 
freight to and from in Queensland on the standard gauge network. The 
Queensland Terminal is used to send and receive intermodal freight to and from 
destinations throughout Queensland on the narrow gauge track, including the 
North Coast Line. 
110. Pacific National and Aurizon are the only rail freight operators that use the 
Acacia Ridge Terminal. Currently, Qube provides terminal services at the BMUT 
to Aurizon and Pacific National (under a subcontract entered into with Aurizon). 
These services include preparing for train arrivals, allocating trains to relevant 
tracks for loading/unloading, lifting containers and coordinating the provisioning 
of locomotives. As discussed at 140 below, Pacific National and Aurizon have 
entered into an agreement for Pacific National to effectively replace Qube as the 
provider of these services from 1 December 2018, regardless of whether the 
Acacia Ridge Acquisition proceeds. Aurizon provides equivalent services to itself 
at the Queensland Terminal. 
111. Pacific National’s Tennyson Terminal is a narrow gauge terminal and is used by 
Pacific National for its operations on the North Coast Line. The Tennyson 
Terminal is located approximately 10 kilometres from the Acacia Ridge Terminal 
and approximately 12 kilometres from the Brisbane CBD. Pursuant to a Terminal 
Services Agreement entered into with Aurizon, Pacific National currently hauls 
freight into the BMUT at the Acacia Ridge Terminal on the interstate standard 
gauge track, transports it by truck to the Tennyson Terminal, and then transports 
it on the narrow gauge network to destinations on the North Coast Line. Freight 
from far north Queensland to be moved interstate by rail is also transported 
between the Tennyson Terminal and the Acacia Ridge Terminal. 
112. The BMT is a dual gauge terminal operated by, and located at, the Port of 
Brisbane under a long term lease entered into with the Queensland Government 
in 2010. The BMT is currently used for importing and exporting freight. Aurizon 
runs direct narrow gauge services between the BMT and north Queensland, 
known as the Seafreighter service.  
113. The ACCC understands that the Bromelton Terminal commenced operations on 
21 January 2017 and was purpose-built by SCT to service its unique louvre 
vans. The terminal construction was partially funded by a $9.6 million Federal 
Government grant from the National Stronger Regions Fund. The Bromelton 
Terminal does not have narrow gauge access, meaning that freight cannot be 
moved to north Queensland by rail without first being transferred by road to a 
narrow gauge terminal in Brisbane.  
114. As rail freight operators wishing to service the Brisbane area must make use of a 
terminal in that area, the ACCC considers the relevant geographic market to be 
south east Queensland. As described above, the other rail freight terminals in 
south east Queensland are the Bromelton Terminal and the BMT. 
115. The ACCC considers use of the Acacia Ridge terminal provides a significant 
competitive advantage to a rail freight operator wishing to haul freight across 
both narrow and standard gauges. This is because it allows a rail haulage 
provider to transfer freight at the one terminal without having to take an 


Pacific National and Linfox – proposed acquisition of Aurizon’s intermodal assets 
 
Page 20 of 28 
additional step of transporting freight by road between a narrow gauge and 
standard gauge terminal. The ACCC considers that this particular advantage of 
the Acacia Ridge Terminal limits the extent to which other rail terminals in south 
east Queensland are able to offer an effective alternative. 
The significance of the Acacia Ridge Terminal and the Queensland intermodal 
business 
116. The ACCC considers the Acacia Ridge Terminal to be key infrastructure and, on 
the basis of market inquiries, considers that access to the standard gauge and 
narrow gauge terminal services provided at the Acacia Ridge Terminal is a 
significant factor for any possible new entrant to intermodal rail freight operations 
both within Queensland on the North Coast Line and interstate.  
117. Further, the Acacia Ridge Terminal’s position as the only terminal in south east 
Queensland capable of efficiently dealing with the transfer of freight between the 
narrow and standard gauges increases its strategic importance. For entry to 
occur in intermodal rail haulage, the entrant will potentially need to offer a 
service on both the North Coast Line and interstate. Otherwise the entrant, or its 
customers, will be beholden to Pacific National for rail haulage of those routes it 
does not cover, placing it at a competitive disadvantage and at the risk of 
foreclosure.  
118. Additionally, market participants have indicated that there are synergies and 
efficiencies in operating an integrated national rail linehaul service. In particular, 
the ACCC understands that: 
 
the ability for an operator to offer an integrated national rail freight service 
that includes services on the North Coast Line is advantageous to some 
customers (for example, customers sending produce from far north 
Queensland to destinations outside Queensland)  
 
operating an intermodal rail linehaul service in Queensland provides an 
operator with scale for key business requirements such as train drivers, 
back-office operations, relationships with freight owners and freight 
forwarders, and warehousing and logistics support, which together may 
lessen the barriers for the operator to also enter interstate intermodal rail 
operations 
 
a market presence and demonstration of successful operations in rail 
linehaul in Queensland is likely to increase the ability for an operator to 
obtain customer contracts (including for customers who are not present in 
Queensland) that are required for sustainable entry into interstate 
intermodal rail operations. 
Competition from other terminals in south east Queensland 
119. The Acacia Ridge Acquisition would result in Pacific National owning and 
operating two of the three narrow gauge rail freight terminals in south east 
Queensland (the Acacia Ridge Terminal and Tennyson, with the remaining 
terminal being the BMT). It would also result in both of the standard gauge rail 
freight terminals currently in use in south east Queensland (the Acacia Ridge 
Terminal and the Bromelton Terminal) being owned and operated by vertically 
integrated interstate rail freight service providers.  


Pacific National and Linfox – proposed acquisition of Aurizon’s intermodal assets 
 
Page 21 of 28 
120. On the basis of market inquiries, the ACCC considers that the standard gauge 
terminal services at the Bromelton Terminal and at the BMT are not likely to be 
suitable for entry into interstate intermodal rail linehaul. 
121. With respect to the Bromelton Terminal, market feedback has indicated that: 
 
there would be a significant additional cost incurred by the requirement to 
take freight on road from Bromelton to major distribution centres which are 
approximately 60 kilometres north 
 
the Bromelton Terminal’s current standard gauge-only capability inhibits 
the ability for a rail operator to use it for operations on the North Coast Line 
 
the facilities at the Bromelton Terminal are purpose built for SCT’s louvre 
vans and are not suitable for a high volume of standard containerised 
freight on flat wagons. 
122. Further, the ACCC notes that as a vertically integrated owner, SCT may be 
unlikely to have an incentive to provide access to the Bromelton Terminal to a 
competitor. 
123. With respect to the BMT at the Port of Brisbane, market feedback has indicated 
that: 
 
the BMT is an import / export terminal and is unsuited to be a terminal 
capable of supporting domestic rail freight, including because land 
surrounding the terminal is likely to be prioritised for port operations rather 
than domestic intermodal operations 
 
there would be a significant additional cost incurred by the requirement to 
take freight either on road, or on rail sharing the passenger line, to 
distribution centres around the Acacia Ridge Terminal and Tennyson 
Terminal 
 
while the BMT has standard gauge capability, it is not utilised. Market 
participants view the BMT as an import / export terminal that connects to 
the narrow gauge line Queensland. Freight taken in and out of Queensland 
by rail is moved via the Acacia Ridge Terminal (or, in the case of SCT, the 
Bromelton Terminal). 
Potential for new terminal development 
124. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that building a new terminal to support entry into 
intermodal rail markets is unlikely in the short to medium term. New terminal 
investment may be more likely in the longer term to support increased rail 
volumes, particularly following completion of the Inland Rail Project, however, 
the nature, location and timing of any future intermodal terminal investment is 
uncertain.  
Increasing barriers to entry 
125. In the event of the Proposed Acquisitions, Pacific National would be the only 
user of the Acacia Ridge Terminal. The issue of access to the terminal is 
therefore centred on the potential for a new rail operator to access the terminal. 


Pacific National and Linfox – proposed acquisition of Aurizon’s intermodal assets 
 
Page 22 of 28 
As discussed above, the ACCC considers that access to the Acacia Ridge 
Terminal is a key component of any new entry for intermodal rail operations in 
Queensland and interstate.   
126. The ACCC considers that ownership of the Acacia Ridge Terminal may allow 
Pacific National to deny, restrict, limit or otherwise provide disadvantageous 
terminal access and terminal capacity to a potential entrant who would require 
that access for effective entry and who would then compete with Pacific National.  
127. Market inquiries have indicated that the potential ways in which Pacific National 
could use ownership of the Acacia Ridge Terminal to deter entry include: 
 
increasing rates for access to and usage of the Acacia Ridge Terminal, or 
structuring rates in a way that disadvantages new entrants operating on a 
smaller scale than Pacific National 
 
denying or delaying requests for access to the Acacia Ridge Terminal 
 
denying requests for access to terminal capacity, including warehousing 
capacity, at the Acacia Ridge Terminal, or allocating capacity at unsuitable 
times 
 
using the fact of a potential entrant requesting access to engage in tactics 
to frustrate that entry more generally. 
128. Market participants have raised concerns that in addition to operational actions, 
Pacific National’s ownership of the Acacia Ridge Terminal is likely to affect future 
capacity upgrades at the Acacia Ridge Terminal. In particular, the ACCC is 
concerned that Pacific National would have a strong incentive to avoid 
investment in capacity upgrades at the terminal to support new entry, and only 
invest in upgrades to support Pacific National’s own expansion. As a result, the 
likelihood of increased competition through new entry in intermodal rail is 
diminished.  
129. Conversely, the ACCC considers that an alternative third party owner of the 
terminal would have the incentive to: 
 
encourage access for a new intermodal rail operator who would then 
compete with Pacific National, or 
 
utilise the terminal to enter intermodal rail operations itself in competition 
with Pacific National. 
Either of these alternatives would have the effect of lowering barriers to entry for 
a new entrant for the supply of intermodal rail haulage services. 
130. An issue the ACCC has considered is whether an increase in barriers to entry 
resulting from Pacific National’s acquisition of the Acacia Ridge Terminal would 
have a significant effect on competition for the supply of intermodal rail haulage 
services (on the NCL and interstate), given the other barriers to entry that would 
exist for a new intermodal rail operator (such as access to terminals and 
premium train paths and the need to secure customer contracts). In this context, 
the ACCC considers that the Inland Rail Project, which will create a new and 
faster rail route on the north–south corridor with improvements such as the ability 


Pacific National and Linfox – proposed acquisition of Aurizon’s intermodal assets 
 
Page 23 of 28 
for trains to be longer and double stacked, will foster the potential for a new 
entrant in interstate haulage, which could be linked to a North Coast Line 
operation. As discussed above, adequate access to the Acacia Ridge Terminal 
would be a critical factor for any potential new entrant, and the ACCC considers 
that Pacific National’s ownership of the terminal would lessen the likelihood of 
this entry and of greater competition in intermodal rail haulage. 
Impact on Queensland Intermodal Acquisition on barriers to entry 
131. In addition to the issues above, market inquiries have indicated that the ability to 
offer customers a national presence; a level of minimum scale; and general 
market presence are factors which would assist a new entrant in interstate 
intermodal operations. 
132. The ACCC considers that an alternative purchaser who acquires Aurizon’s 
Queensland intermodal business may, through those factors, be able to use that 
business to more easily expand into interstate intermodal than would otherwise 
be the case.  
133. For this reason, the ACCC considers that barriers to entry in interstate 
intermodal rail may be higher in a future with the Queensland Intermodal 
Proposed Acquisition compared to a future with an alternative purchaser of 
Aurizon’s Queensland business 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to the 
potential for the Proposed Acquisitions to increase barriers to new entry in intermodal 
rail services both interstate and on the North Coast Line. In particular, market 
participants may wish to comment on: 
 
the degree to which access to the Acacia Ridge Terminal, including adequate 
access to timeslots and capacity, would be required for a new operator to enter 
intermodal rail linehaul services on the North Coast Line  and / or interstate 
 
whether the potential development of intermodal terminal facilities (for example, in 
the Bromelton precinct) is likely to encourage a new entrant in intermodal rail 
operations  
 
actions which Pacific National, as the owner of the Acacia Ridge Terminal, may 
engage in that have the effect of lessening the likelihood of a new operator to enter 
intermodal rail linehaul services on the North Coast Line and / or interstate 
 
the degree to which a third party (instead of Pacific National) acquiring Aurizon’s 
Queensland intermodal business may be able to use that business to leverage into 
interstate intermodal rail services. 
Proposed undertaking to provide access to the Acacia Ridge Terminal  
134. Pacific National has offered the Proposed Undertaking pursuant to section 87B 
of the CCA for the purpose of resolving any competition concerns with the 
Acacia Ridge Acquisition. The Proposed Undertaking contains a regime for third 
parties to obtain access to the Acacia Ridge Terminal. 
135. The ACCC is releasing a copy of the Proposed Undertaking with this Statement 
of Issues, available at www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister.  


Pacific National and Linfox – proposed acquisition of Aurizon’s intermodal assets 
 
Page 24 of 28 
136. The ACCC has not reached a concluded view as to the efficacy or acceptability 
of the Proposed Undertaking. However, based on initial market inquiries and the 
competition concerns arising from its inquiries to date, the ACCC’s preliminary 
view is that a behavioural undertaking is unlikely to resolve the competition 
concerns arising from the Proposed Acquisitions, which stem from the structural 
changes in which Pacific National is the owner, operator and only user of the 
Acacia Ridge Terminal, the only intermodal rail operator in Queensland, and 
(due to Aurizon’s interstate closure) one of two intermodal rail operators on the 
interstate network. 
137. Market participants have strongly indicated that it would not be possible for a 
behavioural undertaking for access to adequately address the various ways 
Pacific National could discriminate against or otherwise frustrate access at the 
Acacia Ridge Terminal for a potential entrant in intermodal rail. 
138. As discussed above, the ACCC is concerned that Pacific National’s ownership of 
the Acacia Ridge Terminal would give Pacific National the ability and incentive to 
increase barriers to entry into intermodal rail linehaul markets in Queensland and 
interstate in the future, and that in contrast, an alternative purchaser would have 
the incentive to encourage usage and invest in capacity upgrades. The ACCC’s 
preliminary view is that a behavioural undertaking for access is unlikely to be 
able to resolve these competition concerns, but seeks market feedback on this 
issue. 
139. You should not interpret consultation on the Proposed Undertaking as an 
indication the ACCC is likely to accept it, or any other form of undertaking. 
Based on market feedback to date, the ACCC has concerns that the Proposed 
Undertaking, or any access undertaking, is unlikely to resolve competition concerns 
arising from the Proposed Acquisitions. The ACCC is nevertheless seeking comments 
from market participants on Proposed Undertaking. In providing a response, you may 
wish to consider: 
 
whether an access undertaking is capable of addressing the competition concerns 
relating to the proposed acquisition of the Acacia Ridge Terminal by Pacific 
National  
 
whether Pacific National would be able to frustrate access seekers from accessing 
the Acacia Ridge Terminal and whether the Proposed Undertaking adequately 
addresses any concerns relating to new entrants’ ability to access the Acacia 
Ridge Terminal 
 
whether Pacific National would be able to refuse to upgrade the Acacia Ridge 
Terminal, or only invest in upgrades that support Pacific National’s own expansion, 
and whether the Proposed Undertaking adequately addresses any concerns 
relating to Pacific National’s incentive and ability to invest in upgrades at the 
Acacia Ridge Terminal 
 
any specific improvements to the Proposed Undertaking to address competition 
concerns  
 
any other potential concerns or risks associated with the Proposed Undertaking. 
 


Pacific National and Linfox – proposed acquisition of Aurizon’s intermodal assets 
 
Page 25 of 28 
Terminal Services Subcontract 
140. A number of activities at the Acacia Ridge Terminal are currently carried out by a 
third party, Qube, under a contract which is due to expire on 30 November 2018. 
As part of the negotiations concerning the Acacia Ridge Acquisition, Pacific 
National and Aurizon separately entered into an agreement by which Pacific 
National would, from December 2018, commence providing the services at the 
terminal currently provided by Qube, even if the Acacia Ridge Acquisition does 
not proceed.  
141. The services that would be provided by Pacific National under this agreement 
(the Terminal Services Subcontract) include: 
 
allocating trains to tracks for loading and unloading and checking arrivals 
 
unloading trains and loading containers onto road vehicles 
 
lifting containers off road vehicles for loading onto trains 
 
oversight and coordination of provisioning for locomotives (fuel, water, 
sand) 
142. Pacific National and Aurizon have requested that the following points be made 
on the Terminal Services Subcontract: 
 
Pacific National has offered a s 87B Undertaking for access to the Acacia 
Ridge Terminal, and the Terminal Services Subcontract would not be 
relevant if the Acacia Ridge Acquisition Proceeds (being a contract 
between Pacific National and itself, as the owner and service provider) 
 
the Terminal Services Subcontract is relevant to the consideration of the 
future without the Acacia Ridge Acquisition 
 
the Terminal Services Subcontract applies to services at the standard 
gauge side of the Acacia Ridge Terminal only 
 
the services to be provided under the Terminal Services Subcontract, and 
the discussion / consultation processes (outlined below, in the third and 
fourth bullet points of paragraph 144) are substantially the same as those 
in the current agreement between Aurizon and Qube for the provision of 
terminal services. 
 
the Terminal Services Subcontract does not require a new interstate 
terminal user to use Pacific National’s terminal services.  
143. The ACCC is considering the above points. 
144. The ACCC notes the following aspects of the Terminal Services Subcontract: 
 
as the current owner of the Acacia Ridge Terminal, Aurizon’s rights and 
obligations under the agreement will novate to any new owner of the 
Acacia Ridge Terminal  


Pacific National and Linfox – proposed acquisition of Aurizon’s intermodal assets 
 
Page 26 of 28 
 
the agreement is for a term of 5 years (i.e. to December 2023) with options 
to extend to December 2033 
 
should a new potential terminal user seek terminal services, Aurizon (or 
the new owner with novated rights and obligations) must first discuss with 
Pacific National the Terminal’s capacity and the terms of that user’s access 
to the terminal’s services. 
 
Pacific National is given consultation rights in respect of any material 
amendment to a terminal services agreement between Aurizon (or the new 
owner with novated rights and obligations) and a terminal user. 
145. As discussed above, during market inquiries participants raised concerns about 
the inability of an access undertaking to adequately address the competition 
concerns arising from the Proposed Acquisitions. In particular, there were 
concerns that an undertaking could not protect against the ways in which Pacific 
National, as the owner and operator of the Acacia Ridge Terminal, could 
discriminate against or otherwise frustrate access at the Acacia Ridge Terminal 
for a potential entrant in intermodal rail.  
146. The ACCC is concerned that the Terminal Services Subcontract may provide 
Pacific National with the ability to engage in conduct that would discriminate 
against or frustrate access for an access seeker at the Acacia Ridge Terminal. 
Based on the concerns raised during market inquiries in relation to Pacific 
National’s proposed ownership of the terminal, the ACCC considers that the 
agreement to provide services may itself – for similar reasons – discourage entry 
into intermodal rail linehaul services.  
The ACCC will consider the effect of the Terminal Services Subcontract on 
competition for the supply of intermodal rail services. The ACCC invites  comment 
from market participants on the degree to which the services outlined above, which 
Pacific National would carry out under the Terminal Services Subcontract (regardless 
of who owned the Acacia Ridge Terminal) may affect a potential new rail operator 
wishing to access the terminal 
Issues that may raise concerns: impact on market for rail 
linehaul services for bulk freight 
147. In addition to intermodal freight hauled by rail, the ACCC considers there is a 
market for haulage of bulk commodities by rail in Queensland (primarily coal, as 
well as bulk minerals, mining inputs, grain, and sugar). This freight is carried on 
narrow gauge rail networks throughout Queensland, including on sections of the 
North Coast Line.  
148. Both Pacific National and Aurizon operate bulk freight rail linehaul services in 
Queensland. 
149. While the Queensland Intermodal Acquisition does not involve the acquisition of 
any of Aurizon’s bulk freight rail assets, the ACCC considers that the acquisition 
may raise concerns in this market because: 


Pacific National and Linfox – proposed acquisition of Aurizon’s intermodal assets 
 
Page 27 of 28 
 
currently, an entrant in this market would require locomotives equipped for 
Queensland’s narrow gauge network, access to terminals (including 
terminals on the North Coast Line), and staff and general rail capabilities 
 
an acquisition of Aurizon’s Queensland intermodal business by a third 
party (i.e., a party other than Pacific National) may, in giving that party an 
above rail presence in Queensland, reduce barriers to entry for that party 
to begin bulk freight rail linehaul operations in Queensland in competition 
with Pacific National and Aurizon. 
150. Market participants have indicated that it may be possible for a third party, in 
acquiring Aurizon’s Queensland intermodal business, to then ‘springboard’ into 
the bulk freight rail linehaul market in Queensland. The ACCC considers that the 
Queensland Intermodal Acquisition may raise concerns because barriers to entry 
or expansion into bulk freight rail linehaul services may be greater than they 
otherwise would be absent the Queensland Intermodal Acquisition.  
The ACCC is considering this issue and invites comments from market participants on 
whether the Queensland Intermodal Acquisition may impact the bulk freight rail 
linehaul market. In particular, market participants may wish to comment on the 
following: 
 
the requirements for an entrant to bulk freight rail linehaul in Queensland, or for a 
bulk freight rail operator outside Queensland to expand into Queensland 
 
whether a third party acquiring Aurizon’s Queensland intermodal business may 
then face lower barriers to entry or expansion to bulk freight rail operations in 
Queensland.  
Issue that may raise concerns: reduction of competition in 
interstate intermodal rail freight markets 
151. As described above, on 14 August 2017 Aurizon announced that in addition to 
the Proposed Acquisitions, it would complete its exit from intermodal operations 
by closing down its interstate business. Aurizon has since announced that the 
closure was completed on 23 December 2017. 
152. The ACCC is concerned that Aurizon’s decision to close its interstate business 
will result in a substantial lessening of competition in interstate intermodal 
markets.  
153. The closure leaves SCT and Pacific National as the only rail freight providers on 
the east–west and north–south corridors. The ACCC notes that, currently, only 
Pacific National provides direct rail services between Sydney and Melbourne and 
Sydney and Brisbane. Further, as noted above, market participants generally 
view SCT as a freight forwarder vertically integrated into rail and not necessarily 
capable of providing a rail linehaul service substitutable with Pacific National’s 
service on their common routes.  
154. For the reasons described in relation to the North Coast Line, the ACCC does 
not consider road freight to be a viable alternative to rail freight on the east-west 
corridor or from Melbourne to Brisbane. Road freight operators may more closely 
compete with rail freight from Melbourne to Sydney and Sydney to Brisbane.  


Pacific National and Linfox – proposed acquisition of Aurizon’s intermodal assets 
 
Page 28 of 28 
155. Market participants have expressed concern that Pacific National, which prior to 
Aurizon’s shutdown was the largest of the three operators, will further entrench 
its position on interstate routes and that entry will be unlikely, particularly if the 
Proposed Acquisitions proceed.  
156. The ACCC understands that some previous customers of Aurizon on the north-
south corridor have, since the announcement of Aurizon’s closure, been quoted 
significantly increased prices by freight forwarders.   
157. The ACCC is considering whether the closure of Aurizon’s interstate intermodal 
business is linked to the Proposed Acquisitions for the purpose of section 50 of 
the CCA. The ACCC notes that an alternative purchaser of the Acacia Ridge 
Terminal and / or Aurizon’s Queensland intermodal business may have also 
purchased Aurizon’s interstate intermodal business. 
ACCC's future steps 
158. As noted above, the ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on 
each of the issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue 
that may be relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. Submissions are 
to be received by the ACCC no later than 3 April 2018 and should be emailed to 
mergers@accc.gov.au. 
159. The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
160. The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 24 May 2018. However 
the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Informal Merger Review 
Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose of 
explaining the ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's public 
announcement to explain its final view. 
