 
Page 1 of 19 
 
Statement of Issues 
22 December 2016 
 PMP Limited – proposed merger with IPMG Group  
Purpose 
1. 
PMP Limited (PMP) proposes to merge with IPMG Group (IPMG). PMP and 
IPMG both focus on commercial printing, particularly heatset web offset printing. 
Heatset web offset printing is the main method of printing for catalogues and 
magazines. PMP and IPMG are the two largest suppliers of heatset web offset 
printing in Australia. PMP also has a catalogue and magazine distribution 
business.  
2. 
This Statement of Issues: 
 
gives the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission’s (ACCC’s) 
preliminary views on competition issues arising from the proposed merger  
 
identifies areas of further inquiry 
 
invites interested parties to submit comments and information to assist our 
assessment of the issues. 
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views 
3. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed merger is in 
section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits 
acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of 
substantially lessening competition in any market. 
4. 
The ACCC divides its preliminary views into three categories, 'issues of concern', 
'issues that may raise concerns' and ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’. 
5. 
For this matter, the ACCC has two issues that may raise concerns. 
Issue that may raise concerns: reduced competition in heatset web offset 
printing 
6. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the merger may substantially lessen 
competition in the supply of heatset web offset printing services. PMP and IPMG 
are the two largest suppliers and the merger will cause a reduction in the number 


PMP Limited – proposed merger with IPMG Group 
 
Page 2 of 19 
of significant suppliers from three to two. The reduction in competition may lead 
to higher printing prices or lower levels of service.  
Issue that may raise concerns: foreclosure of rival distributors 
7. 
The proposed merger may allow a merged PMP-IPMG to foreclose rival 
catalogue distribution providers that compete with PMP’s distribution operations, 
particularly through offering a bundled print plus distribution service offering. This 
may lessen competition in distribution of catalogues.  
Making a submission 
8. 
The ACCC is seeking submissions from interested parties, particularly on the 
following key issues: 
 
the closeness of competition between PMP and IPMG 
 
the extent to which customers, or certain customer segments, have 
alternatives to PMP and IPMG 
 
whether newspaper publishers, some of whom have heatset web offset 
printing capability, are a competitive option for magazines and catalogues 
 
barriers to market entry or expansion in heatset web offset printing 
 
how closely IVE Group Australia (IVE) will now compete with PMP and 
IPMG, given its recently announced acquisition of The Franklin Printing 
Group (Franklin) and printer AIW  
 
whether, if the merged PMP-IPMG gains market power in heatset web 
offset printing, the merged PMP-IPMG will be able to foreclose rival 
providers of catalogue distribution services.  
9. 
Detailed discussion of these and other issues, along with specific questions, is 
contained in this Statement of Issues.  
10. 
Interested parties should provide submissions by no later than 9am on 
31 January 2017. Responses may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the 
title: Submission re PMP-IPMG - attention Stella Leung / John Rouw. If you 
would like to discuss the matter with ACCC officers over the telephone or in 
person, or have any questions about this Statement of Issues, please contact 
Stella Leung on (03) 9658 6444 or John Rouw on (03) 9290 1402.  Mark Basile, 
contactable on (03) 9290 1855, is the lead investigator on this merger.  
11. 
The ACCC anticipates making a final decision on 23 February 2017, however, 
this timeline can change. To keep abreast of possible changes in relation to 
timing and to find relevant documents, interested parties should visit the Mergers 
Register on the ACCC's website at www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 


PMP Limited – proposed merger with IPMG Group 
 
Page 3 of 19 
Confidentiality of submissions 
12. 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed merger. We will 
not disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) unless 
compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or 
during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition 
and Consumer Act 2010.  Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where possible so that you may 
have an opportunity to be heard. Therefore, if the information provided to the 
ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’ 
13. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed merger, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing attention 
to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well as 
identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
14. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 
Timeline 
 
Date 
Event 
28 October 2016 
PMP announced its intention to merge with IPMG 
2 November 2016 
ACCC commenced review of the proposed merger 
22 December 2016 
ACCC publication of Statement of Issues 
31 January 2017 – 9am 
Deadline for submissions from interested parties in 
response to this Statement of Issues 
23 February 2017 
Anticipated date for ACCC final decision  
 
The parties 
The acquirer – PMP Limited 
15. 
PMP Limited is a public company listed on the Australian Securities Exchange. 
PMP prints catalogues and magazines on printing presses located at its print 
sites in: 
 
Moorebank, New South Wales 


PMP Limited – proposed merger with IPMG Group 
 
Page 4 of 19 
 
Clayton, Victoria 
 
Wacol, Queensland 
 
Bibra Lake, Western Australia. 
16. 
PMP’s other principal activities are:  
 
book printing, through Griffin Press in South Australia 
 
magazine distribution, through its business, Gordon & Gotch 
 
letterbox distribution, through PMP Distribution.  
17. 
PMP’s Australian revenue in FY16 was about $335 million (excluding Gordon & 
Gotch). Its FY16 printing revenue was about $200 million. 
18. 
PMP’s most recent trading update stated that volumes have “been soft in the 
early part of FY17 and market conditions have been challenging.  In all the 
circumstances, PMP has advised that its first half standalone Earnings Before 
Interest Tax Depreciation and Amortisation (pre-significant items) is expected to 
be significantly lower than last year”.1 
The target – IPMG Group 
19. 
IPMG Group is a private company, which is wholly owned by the Hannan family. 
IPMG’s printing businesses include: Hannanprint, Offset Alpine, Bolton Print and 
Inprint, which print a range of magazine, catalogue, direct mail, newspaper and 
other publications. IPMG’s print facilities are located in: 
 
Warwick Farm and Lidcombe, NSW 
 
Noble Park, Victoria, 
 
Geebung and Cairns (Bolton Print site), Queensland.  
20. 
Bolton Print in Cairns only offers sheet-fed printing and does not offer heatset 
web offset printing services. 
21. 
IPMG ceased its magazine distribution operations in 2010.  
22. 
IPMG’s other operations include: creative, engagement and production 
agencies, public relations and communications, digital media and packaging. 
23. 
The parts of the IPMG business that will be merged with PMP generated about 
$350 million of revenue in FY16. Its FY16 printing revenue was about $330 
million.  
                                                 
 
1 Address by the Chairman to PMP Extraordinary General Meeting  16 December 2016, 
http://www.pmplimited.com.au/media/25586/pmp-chairman-speech.pdf  


PMP Limited – proposed merger with IPMG Group 
 
Page 5 of 19 
The proposed transaction 
24. 
On 28 October 2016, PMP announced an intention to merge with IPMG. It is 
intended that PMP will acquire 100 per cent of the shares of IPMG and issue 
new PMP shares to the IPMG shareholders (who will together hold a maximum 
37 per cent interest in PMP). IPMG will be entitled to nominate two directors to 
the PMP Board. 
25. 
The merger parties submit that the print industry has been in decline for over a 
decade due to industry trends including digitisation of media leading to reduced 
consumption of print media, and commensurate decline in demand for printing. 
They submit that the proposed transaction would allow them to better compete 
with existing competitors by becoming a more efficient, lower cost business. 
They also submit that the merger would lower their costs of production and 
ensure the ongoing viability of the business, by reducing underutilised and older 
presses, to reflect current and anticipated demand for printing services. 
Industry background 
Printing methods 
26. 
Different printing methods can be used to produce catalogues, magazines and 
other printed materials for commercial needs. These methods include offset 
printing and digital printing. Offset printing includes the web offset and sheet-fed 
offset printing methods. 
27. 
Web offset printing is a mass-production printing method where images on 
plates are transferred (offset) to rubber blankets or rollers and then printed onto 
the chosen paper stock. A continuous roll of paper is fed through an offset 
printing press. The paper is trimmed and folded automatically by the machine 
after the ink has been applied. Web offset printing is particularly well suited to 
medium to large print runs, due to the efficiency and speed of the printing.  
28. 
There are three types of web offset presses:  
 
heatset web offset presses use coated paper and kerosene-based ink 
which is dried rapidly by forced-air heating prior to folding 
 
coldset web offset presses use newsprint (uncoated paper) and the ink is 
dried by ordinary evaporation and absorption  
 
hybrid presses combine the capabilities of heatset and coldset and enable 
printers to print on both coated and uncoated paper. A coldset printer can 
be converted into a hybrid press by installing a dryer or oven. To achieve 
heatset results on a hybrid printer, a printer would use coated paper and 
heatset ink, and dry the ink using the installed dryer. The coldset 
functionality would remain the same. 
29. 
Sheet-fed printing involves individual sheets of paper being fed into printing 
presses to print high quality products. It is also possible for these printers to run 
off reels of paper (similar to web offset printers), and the reel of paper is cut into 
individual sheets as part of the printing process. Sheet-fed printers are popular 


PMP Limited – proposed merger with IPMG Group 
 
Page 6 of 19 
for small and medium-sized print jobs such as magazines, books, brochures, 
leaflets and flyers. 
30. 
Digital printing involves no plates or offset equipment. That is, the print is 
applied with an inkjet akin to that in an office printer; and the process is much 
quicker to initiate. The press has the ability to print variable data as part of the 
one printing process (for example, changing addressees) and the digital medium 
allows for quick and last minute editing of the artwork. Digital printing is more 
economical for smaller print runs. 
31. 
The size and speed of a press may be measured in pages (for example, 16 or 48 
pages: the higher the number, the larger the capacity).  
32. 
Printers also employ extra ‘finishing’ processes and equipment, for example, to 
glue, staple and bind publications. Some printers can apply ‘perfect binding’ (a 
square spine) to high-end magazines. Catalogues typically do not have such 
finishing. Printers vary in the finishing equipment installed.  
Printing industry 
33. 
The merger parties submit that the printing industry is heavily dependent on the 
print media / publishing industry and the retailing industry. The printing industry 
is thus affected by the trend towards digitisation of media, which has affected 
how publishers and retailers communicate to consumers and the demand that 
they have for print products. The ACCC understands that the number of 
magazines sold in Australia has declined by more than a quarter in the past five 
years. The ACCC also understands there has been a smaller decline in the 
number of catalogues delivered, of around 8 per cent, from FY13 when the 
volume of catalogues delivered peaked at over 8 billion.  
Other industry participants and market shares 
34. 
Other than PMP and IPMG, the most significant heatset web offset printing 
company in Australia is IVE. IVE is a publicly listed marketing and print 
communications company based in New South Wales. Its printing business, Blue 
Star Web, prints catalogues and magazines.  
35. 
On 13 December 2016, IVE completed the acquisition of Franklin and AIW. 
Franklin is a specialist catalogue printer based in Sunshine, Victoria. It does not 
print magazines. AIW primarily prints catalogues but also prints some 
magazines. It is based in Springvale, Victoria. 
36. 
The ACCC decided not to conduct a public review of the two acquisitions by IVE, 
as the ACCC considered that they did not raise competition concerns.  
37. 
Further discussion and questions on the impact of IVE’s acquisitions on the 
overall competitive dynamics in the print industry are raised in paragraph 72 
below.  


PMP Limited – proposed merger with IPMG Group 
 
Page 7 of 19 
The ACCC invites comments on the above description of the industry, in particular: 
 
the extent to which heatset web offset printing volumes are declining, and  
 
the size of the print run for which sheet-fed and digital printing becomes 
competitive with web offset printing. 
Future with and without the acquisition  
38. 
Section 50 of the Act prohibits mergers or acquisitions that would have the effect 
or be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
In assessing a proposed acquisition pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC 
considers the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future competitive 
environment post-acquisition if the acquisition proceeds (the “with” position) to 
the likely future competitive environment if the acquisition does not proceed (the 
“without” position) to determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in any relevant market. 
39. 
On the basis of the information currently available, the ACCC considers the likely 
competitive environment if the merger does not proceed will involve PMP and 
IPMG continuing to compete with each other.  
The ACCC invites comments on the likely future competitive environment if the merger 
does not proceed.  
Previous ACCC decisions 
40. 
In 2001 IPMG and PMP proposed to merge. After a public review, the ACCC 
stated that it considered that the proposal raised substantial competition 
concerns in printing and magazine distribution; and announced that it would 
oppose the merger. IPMG and PMP were the two largest commercial printers in 
Australia. They owned the majority of heatset web offset presses in Australia, 
and had a combined market share of about 75 per cent of heatset web offset 
printing. The ACCC stated smaller printers using other printing processes, such 
as sheet-fed printing, were unlikely to provide a competitive constraint to the 
merged parties. The merger did not go ahead.  
41. 
The competitive overlap in magazine distribution no longer exists as IPMG 
ceased magazine distribution in 2010.  
Market definition 
42. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the relevant market for assessing the 
competitive effects of the proposed merger is the provision of heatset web offset 
printing services on a regional or national basis. 
Product market: Heatset web offset printing 
43. 
The ACCC’s starting point for delineating relevant markets to assess the 
competitive effects of the proposed merger involves identifying the products 
actually or potentially supplied by the merger parties. The ACCC then considers 
what other products constitute sufficiently close substitutes to provide a 
significant source of constraint on the merged entity. 


PMP Limited – proposed merger with IPMG Group 
 
Page 8 of 19 
44. 
PMP and IPMG are the two largest suppliers of printing services for catalogues 
and magazines, particularly publications that are:  
 
long-run (many copies) 
 
time-sensitive (for example, issued weekly to monthly) 
 
medium to high quality (for example, ranging from retail catalogues to 
‘high-end’ magazines). 
45. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that in general there is minimal demand-side 
substitution between various printing types for customers acquiring catalogue 
and magazine printing services. Heatset web offset is generally the only type of 
printing that is suitable for most of these customers. While it is physically 
possible to use alternatives to heatset web offset printing in many situations, the 
costs involved and issues related to quality, finish and timeliness mean these 
other options are typically not close substitutes.  
46. 
However, the ACCC recognises that there are likely to be different customer 
segments. Some customers of PMP and IPMG may have alternatives, such as 
non heatset web offset printing or other forms of marketing. However, for a 
significant proportion of customers, particularly larger catalogue and magazine 
customers, there are no alternatives, and hard copy printing is an essential 
requirement for their business.  
Supply-side substitution 
47. 
In relation to supply-side substitution, there are impediments to printers switching 
between print types: 
 
Sheet-fed and digital printing firms are unable to supply heatset web offset 
printing services without purchasing new presses.  
 
Owners of coldset presses will face costs in converting them to hybrid 
presses, and converted presses may be more costly to operate than new 
or second-hand heatset presses.  
Hybrid presses 
48. 
The ACCC understands that certain catalogues and magazines are produced on 
both hybrid and heatset web offset printers, and that, from the reader’s 
perspective, the publications are of the same quality. While the ACCC’s 
preliminary view is that hybrid presses are capable of producing some products 
that are alternatives to traditional heatset products, hybrid presses: 
 
may be limited in their ability to produce certain high quality products 
 
may have limitations in the paper sizes they can efficiently produce, and  
 
may have higher operating costs.  
49. 
There also appear to be differing abilities in presses that are designed and 
initially purchased as hybrid presses versus those that are converted from 
coldset presses. 


PMP Limited – proposed merger with IPMG Group 
 
Page 9 of 19 
50. 
While the ACCC has not formed a concluded view on this issue, to the extent 
hybrid presses are able to print comparable quality at similar cost to heatset web 
offset presses, it is likely they will form part of the heatset web offset market. 
51. 
Regardless of whether hybrid presses are “in” or “out” of the relevant market, 
their competitive impact for certain customers is taken into consideration in the 
competition assessment.  
Are magazine and catalogue printing in the same market? 
52. 
The ACCC understands that magazines and catalogues are printed using the 
same heatset web offset presses. This may give suppliers the ability to switch 
between printing magazines and catalogues. However, magazine printing and 
catalogue printing require different finishing equipment. For example, high-end 
magazines require ‘perfect binding’ which requires separate equipment. Some 
publications require saddle stitching, or inserting, which is all done on separate 
equipment.  
53. 
In addition, printers such as Franklin and IVE (before it acquired Franklin) appear 
to have gained reputations for particular strength and specialisation in 
catalogues or magazines respectively.  
54. 
The ACCC is considering further the effect of the need for different finishing 
equipment on the ability of suppliers to switch production between magazines 
and catalogues. If finishing processes can be economically outsourced to third 
parties, this would likely increase the ability to switch between catalogues and 
magazines.  
ACCC’s preliminary view on product market definition 
55. 
At this stage, the ACCC considers there is likely to be a market for heatset web 
offset printing services. This may include heatset printing using hybrid presses.  
56. 
The ACCC is considering further whether there are separate markets for 
catalogue and magazine printing, but our preliminary view is that there is likely to 
be a combined market.  
57. 
This product market definition is consistent with previous ACCC decisions. The 
ACCC is aware that the market has changed since those decisions, with printing 
volumes falling and technology for digital and sheet-fed printing improving. The 
ACCC recognises these changes, but does not consider that sheet-fed and 
digital printing are in the same market as heatset web offset printing. It appears 
that the competitive dynamic in PMP’s and IPMG’s primary area of focus — 
large print runs of catalogues and magazines — remains largely unchanged, 
albeit with lower volumes.  
Geographic scope of the market 
58. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the heatset web offset market has elements 
of competition that are state based, regional and national.   
59. 
Some customers consider their options are limited to using suppliers in the same 
state as their principal operations / end markets, because it costs too much in 
time and money to have printed materials transported from interstate. Where a 


PMP Limited – proposed merger with IPMG Group 
 
Page 10 of 19 
customer has printing requirements across Australia, it may be important for the 
printer to have a national presence.  
60. 
Other customers are willing to have material transported from an adjacent state 
or even further. 
61. 
Overseas-based suppliers are unlikely to be an alternative option for most 
customers. This is because the size of many magazine and catalogue print runs 
means the freight costs are prohibitive and because timeliness of distribution is 
important. However, printing overseas may be an option for magazines 
published less frequently.  
62. 
The ACCC ultimately may not need to reach a final view on the precise 
geographic boundaries of the markets. At this stage the ACCC considers that the 
exact geographic market definition is not likely to determine the assessment of 
the competition issues arising from the proposed merger. 
Market shares 
63. 
The ACCC has received various estimates of national market shares by revenue 
and capacity. While these figures are estimates and use different metrics, the 
estimates have generally correlated fairly closely. The ACCC estimates that the 
market share by revenue for heatset web offset printing in Australia fall within the 
ranges in Table 1 below.  
Table 1: Heatset web offset printers estimated market shares by revenue 
Firm 
Estimated market share by revenue 
IPMG 
25 – 33% 
PMP 
25 – 33% 
Merged PMP-IPMG 
50 – 66% 
IVE (Blue Star/Franklin/AIW 
combined) 
23 – 37%     (Franklin  15  – 20%) 
                    (IVE/Blue Star 3 – 10%) 
                    (AIW  5 – 7 %) 
Others  
10 – 20% 
 
64. 
“Others” includes newspaper publishers. Newspaper publishers traditionally 
have coldset presses used to produce newspapers, however, some newspaper 
publishers also have heatset print capabilities. The heatset print capabilities are 
used to produce “glossy” inserts for the newspapers, but also to produce 
publications for third parties that are not inserted into the newspapers. For 
example, Fairfax’s Print and Logistics business advertises that it can produce 
heatset catalogues and magazines. Also, IPMG out-sources some Western 
Australian print requirements to West Australian Newspapers (WAN). See from 
paragraph 78 below for further discussion and questions about the role of 
newspaper publishers in heatset printing.  


PMP Limited – proposed merger with IPMG Group 
 
Page 11 of 19 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary views about 
the definition of the relevant market(s). In particular market participants may wish to 
comment on the following: 
 
If you routinely use heatset web offset printing, what circumstances in the short to 
medium term would cause you to use another form of printing instead, such as 
coldset, sheet-fed or digital printing? 
 
If a merged PMP-IPMG increased heatset web offset prices five to 10 per cent, 
what would you / the customer do? 
 
How easy is it for a supplier of heatset web offset catalogue printing services to 
switch to supplying magazines and vice versa? What are the costs of the finishing 
equipment required to produce magazines and catalogues?   
 
Is it possible to out-source the ‘finishing’ of printed products?  
 
Do you consider the ACCC’s estimated market shares to be accurate? 
Issue that may raise concerns: lessening of competition in 
the supply of heatset web offset printing 
65. 
Based on its inquiries to date, the ACCC’s preliminary views are that: 
 
By eliminating the competitive rivalry between PMP and IPMG, the 
proposed merger may provide the merged firm with the ability and 
incentive to unilaterally increase prices or lower service levels.  
 
For a significant number of customers PMP and IPMG are likely to be each 
other’s closest competitors. 
 
The merger reduces the number of significant suppliers of heatset web 
offset printing services from three to two (the non-merger party being IVE), 
which may decrease the level of competition and increase the risk of 
coordinated conduct or tacit collusion. 
 
Other competitors (such as Spotpress, Graphic Print (Cadillac), and 
newspaper companies) may not provide a significant competitive constraint 
on a merged PMP-IPMG. 
 
A merged PMP-IPMG could price discriminate between those customers 
that do have viable alternatives to the merged entity and those that do not.  
 
The threat of entry or expansion may not sufficiently constrain the merged 
entity. 
 
The threat of customers exercising countervailing power (sponsoring entry 
or expansion or in-sourcing printing) may not be a strong constraint on a 
merged PMP-IPMG. 


PMP Limited – proposed merger with IPMG Group 
 
Page 12 of 19 
 Competitive rivalry and alternative suppliers 
66. 
The ACCC considers that for a large number of customers PMP and IPMG are 
likely to be each other’s closest competitors:  
 
They are the two largest suppliers of heatset web offset printing services 
with a national ‘footprint’.  
 
Many customers have indicated that PMP and IPMG compete aggressively 
with each other for tenders, particularly for ‘long’ run catalogue and 
magazine print jobs.  
 
PMP and IPMG have routinely competed closely with each other for a 
number of multi-million-dollar contracts for prominent retailers (while also 
losing contracts to other businesses, particularly businesses that are now 
part of IVE). 
 
PMP has also stated that there is over-capacity in the printing industry, 
including underutilised capacity within PMP’s and IPMG’s press fleets. 
Firms in such a situation are more likely to have an incentive to compete 
strongly to gain work for their underutilised presses. 
67. 
As noted at Table 1 above, the ACCC estimates that the merged PMP-IPMG 
would have 50 - 66 per cent market share by revenue. 
68. 
There appears to be a limited number of alternative suppliers to PMP and IPMG. 
Market participants consistently identified the following alternative suppliers to 
PMP and IPMG: 
 
Catalogue printing – Franklin Web and AIW (now both part of IVE) 
 
Magazine printing – IVE (Blue Star) 
69. 
A minority of customers also indicated that they consider Graphic Print (formerly 
Cadillac) and Spotpress as actual or potential competitors.  
70. 
The extent to which customers consider these suppliers to be a viable 
alternative, and therefore the level of competitive constraint they are likely to 
impose on a merged PMP-IPMG, varies: 
 
Some large customers have indicated that PMP and IPMG are the only 
suppliers capable of meeting their print volumes and turnaround times, so 
they have limited or no alternative options. 
 
Some customers who split their printing requirements between multiple 
printers have suggested that they may be able to move part or all of their 
volume requirements to one or more alternative suppliers, if those 
suppliers have available capacity. 
 
Some customers consider that their options are limited to suppliers that are 
based in the same state as their principal operations, due to the time and 
cost to transport printed materials.  


PMP Limited – proposed merger with IPMG Group 
 
Page 13 of 19 
71. 
There is a risk that a merged PMP-IPMG could price discriminate between those 
customers that do have viable alternatives, and those that do not. For example, 
a customer with a low-volume quarterly magazine is likely to have several 
alternatives to PMP-IPMG, including potentially overseas printers. A merged 
PMP-IPMG could price keenly to such customers, while increasing prices for 
large customers that have few alternatives (due to turnaround times and 
volumes).   
IVE’s acquisition of Franklin and AIW 
72. 
As noted, on 13 December 2016 IVE announced the completion of the 
acquisition of Franklin and AIW. The ACCC considered these transactions and 
decided that a public review was not required.  
73. 
Most of the market feedback received by the ACCC about the proposed PMP-
IPMG merger was obtained before IVE announced these transactions.  
74. 
The ACCC is seeking feedback from market participants on whether the IVE 
transactions change the level of competitive constraint imposed on PMP and 
IPMG. According to various estimates, IVE’s recent acquisitions make it of a 
comparable size to each of PMP and IPMG respectively in heatset web offset 
printing services (see Table 1 above). However, its print operations will be 
focussed in Melbourne and Sydney. 
75. 
IVE states that the acquisitions will make it “a leading player in the large format 
web offset sector and establish it as a low cost and highly efficient specialist 
catalogue producer through: 
 
the acquisition of Franklin and integrating AIW’s operations into Franklin’s 
market leading facility in Victoria over the next 12 months and 
 
enhancing the combined group’s national coverage through the 
establishment of a catalogue production capability in IVE’s Blue Star Web 
facility in Sydney.”2 
76. 
PMP and IPMG submit that IVE will continue to be a significant and growing 
constraint in the long term. 
77. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the combined IVE, Franklin and AIW has 
the potential to compete more directly with PMP and IPMG for major contracts. 
Industry participants have suggested that IVE will have a low cost base and 
modern heatset web offset equipment.  
Newspaper publishers 
78. 
The ACCC has considered submissions from PMP and IPMG that they compete 
against newspaper publishers including Fairfax, WAN, APN News & Media and 
News Corp.  
79. 
The parties submit that Fairfax and WAN already compete to supply ‘long’ print-
run customers. They consider that Fairfax and WAN are effective constraints 
                                                 
 
2 IVE Investor presentation, 5 December 2016, p 7. 


PMP Limited – proposed merger with IPMG Group 
 
Page 14 of 19 
now and that as newspaper volumes continue to rapidly decline, they will 
become even stronger constraints over the next two years. 
80. 
The ACCC is considering the extent of competition between newspaper 
publishers and PMP-IPMG and how it is likely to evolve.  
81. 
Heatset web offset printing is the core part of the business of PMP and IPMG. 
Each has the ability to produce catalogues and magazines in a variety of sizes 
and formats, the ability to quickly turn around ‘long’ print runs of catalogues, a 
wide geographic footprint, and specialised finishing equipment such as 
equipment for perfect binding.  
82. 
In contrast, newspaper businesses, whose primary business is newspaper 
publishing, may have a more limited ability to meet third-party customers’ 
commercial printing requirements for catalogue and magazine printing, 
particularly for high quality or high volume work. Further, it appears that the 
focus of at least some of the newspaper publishers is on materials that will be 
distributed as an insert in their newspapers.  
83. 
While some newspaper publishers also utilise capacity for other printing work to 
a degree, they may need to make significant investments into a new printer or 
new printers, or converting coldset printers into hybrid printers, to compete for 
more third party work. 
84. 
The ACCC is continuing to investigate the extent to which newspaper publishers 
compete with PMP or IPMG in the supply of heatset web offset printing and 
whether they may be a significant constraint if PMP and IPMG merge.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the following: 
For customers 
 
Do PMP and IPMG compete more intensely in certain circumstances, for example, 
for larger volumes, for particular types of printing or in particular geographic 
locations? 
 
Have you switched between different suppliers, for example, PMP, IPMG, Franklin, 
AIW, IVE, Spotpress, Graphic Print (formerly Cadillac)? What do you take into 
account when considering whether to switch, for example, pricing, costs, 
geographic location and/or track record? 
 
Do you split your printing between different suppliers? Why/why not? If yes, which 
suppliers? 
 
Have you invited newspaper publishers to tender for your printing requirements? If 
so, who? Were they a credible alternative to PMP and IPMG?  
 
Have newspaper publishers tried to win your printing requirements, for example, 
through a particular pricing or service offering? If so, who? 
 
Which alternative businesses and / or alternative services put the most ‘pressure’ 
on IPMG and, separately, PMP to keep their heatset web offset printing prices 
lower and/or service levels higher than they might otherwise be? 


PMP Limited – proposed merger with IPMG Group 
 
Page 15 of 19 
 
How have IPMG and PMP’s printing prices compared with each other in the last 
five or so years? How have the prices of IPMG and, separately, PMP, compared 
with the prices of other printers? If there are differences, why do you think this is 
so? Please use examples of actual tenders, price submitted etc. 
 
In what way, if any, does IVE’s acquisition of Franklin and AIW affect competition 
in the market for heatset web offset printing? In what way, if any, is the combined 
entity a greater or otherwise different competitive constraint on PMP and IPMG? 
For suppliers 
 
What is the minimum scale to be able to compete effectively with a merged PMP-
IPMG in magazine and/or catalogue printing? 
 
Have you won or lost catalogue and/or magazine printing jobs to the newspaper 
publishers? If so, which newspaper publishers? Which customers? 
 
In what way, if any, does IVE’s acquisition of Franklin and AIW affect competition 
in the market for heatset web offset printing? In what way, if any, is the combined 
entity a greater or otherwise different competitive constraint on PMP and IPMG? 
Barriers to entry and expansion 
85. 
The ACCC is considering the extent to which the threat of new entry or 
expansion in the relevant market or markets might constrain a merged PMP-
IPMG.  
86. 
In particular, the ACCC is examining the significance of claims that there is 
excess heatset web offset printing capacity in the industry, and the effect this 
may have on the likelihood of new entry or expansion.  
87. 
Excess capacity in an industry can be a deterrent to new entry or expansion, as 
a firm considering entering or expanding may be concerned about incumbents 
with excess capacity deploying it quickly and at low cost to retain customers and 
defend market share. As noted earlier, having spare capacity can also give 
incumbents stronger incentives to price more keenly than they otherwise might. 
88. 
In addition to excess capacity, the following factors have led to the ACCC’s 
preliminary view that the threat of new entry or expansion may not be sufficient 
to constrain the merged PMP-IPMG:  
 
Entry or expansion requires high fixed-cost, long-term investments in 
installed presses and equipment. Such investments require a long period 
of foreseeable demand to justify them. As the demand for printing appears 
to be declining, new investment in printing capacity appears to involve 
substantial commercial risks. 
 
The equipment requires skilled operators (albeit less staff as automation 
increases) who require specialist initial and ongoing training. 
 
There are competitive advantages from having a proven track record of 
reliability and good customer relationships.  


PMP Limited – proposed merger with IPMG Group 
 
Page 16 of 19 
 
Some customers have suggested that it may not be cost effective or 
practical to regularly switch between suppliers. 
89. 
However, the ACCC has also received information that: 
 
The presses and equipment needed are readily available either as new or 
second hand (particularly given excess capacity worldwide). 
 
The costs of the printers can be recovered, to a degree, at exit by selling 
equipment. 
 
The lead times to manufacture and install the equipment are measured in 
months. As an example, IVE acquiring a new heatset web offset press in 
November 2016, for $12 million, to bring online in late 2017.3 
 
Contracts are typically around one to three years, so contracts are coming 
up for renewal fairly frequently, which creates opportunities for entry or 
expansion. 
90. 
The ACCC is continuing to investigate and consider the issue of barriers to entry 
and expansion.     
The ACCC invites comments on potential barriers to entry and expansion in heatset 
web offset printing.  
 
Please set out your understanding of the costs a printer without heatset web offset 
printing capability would have to consider in deciding whether to enter the heatset 
web offset sector; of these costs, what proportion are fixed versus variable; what 
proportion are “sunk” versus “recoverable on exit”.  
 
Please set out your understanding of the costs an existing heatset web offset 
printing firm would need to consider in making a decision to expand; of these 
costs, what proportion are fixed versus variable? What proportion is “sunk” versus 
“recoverable on exit”?  
 
How easy is it to expand heatset web offset printing capacity? How long does it 
take? 
 
What volumes or representative customers could, for example, a single extra 16-
page heatset web offset press service? Or, for example, a 96-page press? Please 
provide historical examples where possible of the use of newly installed presses. 
 
Is a longer term reputation important to customers to operate successfully as a 
heatset web offset printer, or can new firms easily gain this? 
 
For a firm to enter into or expand in heatset web offset printing, what investments 
would it have to make in things like sales and marketing, customer service and 
relationship building to successfully and sustainably maintain the entry or 
expansion? Where possible, please provide historic or otherwise specific examples 
in terms such as sales staff added or marketing campaigns mounted. 
                                                 
 
3 http://www.proprint.com.au/News/390735,blue-star-in-12m-heatset-investment.aspx  


PMP Limited – proposed merger with IPMG Group 
 
Page 17 of 19 
 
What, if anything, do the history of the entry, expansion and merger of IVE, AIW 
and Franklin indicate about potential barriers to entry and expansion in heatset 
web offset printing? 
Countervailing power 
91. 
Another question that the ACCC is continuing to consider is the level of 
competitive constraint imposed by the threat of customers exercising 
‘countervailing power’ against PMP and IPMG. This could involve a customer 
sponsoring new businesses to enter the market or the expansion of printers 
active in the market now (such as effectively underwriting a new press or site). It 
could also involve a customer in-sourcing printing.  
92. 
Possible examples include: 
 
a medium-sized retailer helping underpin the formation and entry of AIW 
into heatset web offset printing in 2001, and  
 
some newspaper publishers moving printing in-house for magazines 
inserted into their newspapers. 
93. 
The ACCC is still investigating this issue. Countervailing power may exist in 
some circumstances, but may not generally be a strong constraint on PMP or 
IPMG. This is because: 
 
Most customers consider that their volume requirements are insufficient to 
sponsor new entry or expansion and in any event would be a risky 
commercial decision in the current printing market.  
 
Customers generally do not consider it feasible to move printing services 
in-house. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the prospect of customers 
exercising countervailing power. In particular market participants may wish to 
comment on the following: 
 
If you are a customer, have you considered sponsoring the entry of a new supplier 
into heatset web offset printing or the expansion of an existing heatset web offset 
printer (by, for example, effectively underwriting some or all of a new press or site 
investment)? If so, please provide details. If not, why not? Would you do so in 
future? 
 
Are there any examples of customers sponsoring entry or expansion or in-sourcing 
printing in the Australian heatset web offset market? If so, please provide details 
and your view of how successful these exercises have been.  
 
Which particular customers could credibly threaten to sponsor entry or expansion?  
 
How large would a customer’s print needs have to be to support efficient and 
sustainable entry or expansion of a heatset web offset printing firm? Over what 
time period would a customer have to commit to support such entry or expansion? 
Please explain the basis for your views (for example, if your firm examined a 
business case at some point). 


PMP Limited – proposed merger with IPMG Group 
 
Page 18 of 19 
Increased risk of coordination 
94. 
Coordinated conduct involves competing suppliers of heatset web offset printing 
services recognising and accommodating their mutual interdependence by not 
competing as aggressively as they otherwise would. The ACCC does not 
consider that such coordination would require any explicit communication or 
commitment between rivals. Rather, rivals would act in their own self-interest, 
taking into account each other’s likely actions and reactions. 
95. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the reduction in the number of major 
suppliers of heatset web offset printing services from three to two may increase 
the likelihood that the remaining suppliers will individually ‘decide’ not to compete 
as aggressively as they otherwise would. This could affect key commercial 
decisions, such as price increases, customer retention and production 
capacities.  
96. 
Feedback obtained by the ACCC to date indicates that the market for the supply 
of heatset web offset printing services has some characteristics that may 
encourage coordination, such as: 
 
The proposed merger will result in two large players, the merged PMP-
IPMG and IVE, with capabilities across both catalogues and magazines, 
with a limited number of smaller market participants. 
 
The products produced by heatset web offset printers are relatively 
homogenous. There is not a high degree of differentiation within the 
magazine and catalogue categories. While innovations occur at the smaller 
end of the market, for large scale magazine and catalogue printing there 
does not appear to be high demand for innovation by customers.  
 
Customers of heatset web offset printing services often have a preference 
not to obtain printing services from a supplier that also supplies printing 
services to a competitor, particularly for catalogues. This reduces the 
incentive for suppliers to vigorously compete for customers (particularly 
customers that compete with each other), and would make it easier for 
suppliers to allocate customers to each supplier.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the following: 
 
Have you observed any behaviour by suppliers of heatset web offset printing 
services which may suggest that coordinated conduct would be likely if PMP and 
IPMG merge? 
 
How might price-based coordination occur between the merged PMP-IPMG and 
IVE? 
 
How might customer allocation occur between the merged PMP-IPMG and IVE? 


PMP Limited – proposed merger with IPMG Group 
 
Page 19 of 19 
Issue that may raise concerns: foreclosure of rival 
distribution providers 
97. 
The ACCC is considering the extent to which the proposed merger may 
substantially lessen competition in catalogue distribution services. There are two 
key distribution networks to deliver printed catalogues to end-consumers’ 
letterboxes. These are owned by PMP and Salmat. The ACCC understands that 
some customers prefer to split their catalogue printing and distribution 
requirements between different service providers to mitigate risk. 
98. 
PMP is already vertically integrated with catalogue printing and distribution and 
already has the incentive to foreclose rivals. However, the ACCC is concerned 
that a merged PMP-IPMG would be able to leverage its market power and large 
market share in printing to discriminate in favour of PMP’s downstream 
distribution services, particularly through a bundled print and distribution service 
offering. In other words, the merger may give the merged PMP-IPMG the ability 
and incentive to engage in a foreclosure strategy.  
99. 
The merged PMP-IPMG may be able to prevent its customers using Salmat or 
other potential new providers of distribution services, which would reduce 
competition in distribution and raise barriers to entry and expansion. This may 
ultimately lead to higher prices for distribution.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the following: 
 
If you are a customer, do you currently separate your printing and distribution 
requirements between different service providers? Why/why not? 
 
If PMP and IPMG merge, are you concerned that your distribution provider choices 
would be limited? How do you think the proposed merger would impact on prices 
and service levels? Would you change your current printing and distribution 
model? Please provide examples where possible. 
ACCC's future steps 
100. As noted above, the ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on 
each of the issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue 
that may be relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. Submissions are 
to be received by the ACCC no later than 9am on 31 January 2017 and should 
be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au. 
101. The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
102. The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 23 February 2017. 
However the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose 
of explaining the ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's 
public announcement to explain its final view. 
