 
Page 1 of 9 
 
Public Competition Assessment 
19 April 2016 
Iron Mountain - proposed acquisition of Recall 
 
The ACCC’s decision 
1. 
On 31 March 2016, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission 
announced its decision not to oppose the proposed acquisition of Recall 
Holdings Limited (Recall) by Iron Mountain Incorporated (Iron Mountain) 
subject to an enforceable divestment undertaking. The undertaking requires Iron 
Mountain to divest almost its entire Australian operations.  
2. 
The ACCC considered that the proposed acquisition, in conjunction with the 
undertaking, would be unlikely to contravene section 50 of the Competition and 
Consumer Act 2010 (the Act). 
3. 
Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to have 
the effect, of substantially lessening competition in any market. 
4. 
The ACCC primarily considered the competitive effects of the proposed 
acquisition in markets for the supply of physical document management services 
(PDMS). Without a divestment undertaking, the ACCC considered that the 
proposed acquisition would eliminate competition between the two largest, and 
closest competing, suppliers of PDMS nationally. However, the ACCC 
considered that the divestment undertaking would address the competition 
concerns by maintaining an effective independent competitor to Iron Mountain 
and other PDMS suppliers. 
5. 
As the proposed acquisition is subject to an enforceable undertaking, the ACCC 
is issuing this Public Competition Assessment to outline the reasons for its 
decision. 
6. 
Please note that this and other public competition assessments are subject to 
the following qualifications: 
 the ACCC considers each transaction on a case-by-case basis and so the 
analysis and decision outlined in one assessment will not necessarily reflect 
the ACCC’s view of another transaction, even where that other transaction 
may involve the same or a related market  
 as assessments are brief and also do not refer to confidential information 
provided by the parties or other market participants, assessments do not set 
out all of the issues and information considered by the ACCC, nor all of the 
analysis and reasons of the ACCC.  


 
Page 2 of 9 
The parties and the transaction 
The acquirer: Iron Mountain 
7. 
Iron Mountain is a global supplier in the information management industry. Its 
headquarters are in the United States and it is listed on the New York Stock 
Exchange. In the 2015 calendar year, Iron Mountain had global revenues of 
US$3.0 billion (approximately AUD$3.95 billion). Approximately 3 per cent 
(approximately US$90 million) of its 2015 revenues were generated in the Asia 
Pacific region. 
8. 
In Australia, Iron Mountain carries on business through its subsidiary Iron 
Mountain Australia Pty Ltd. It has a presence in every state and mainland 
territory. 
The target: Recall  
9. 
Recall is an Australian listed public company that is a global supplier in the 
information management industry. In 2014/15, Recall had global revenues of 
US$828 million (approximately AUD$1.09 billion), including revenues in Australia 
of AUD$191 million. 
10. Recall operates in every Australian state and mainland territory, except the 
Northern Territory. 
The transaction 
11. Iron Mountain proposes to acquire Recall by a scheme of arrangement. Under 
the proposed transaction, Iron Mountain will acquire all of Recall's operations, 
including in Australia, North America, South America, Europe and the Asia-
Pacific. 
12. Iron Mountain’s stated rationale for the transaction is to take advantage of 
identified synergies between the two businesses, and to broaden Iron Mountain’s 
global footprint and increase its exposure to higher growth emerging markets. 
13. The proposed acquisition is also being considered by competition authorities in 
the United States, United Kingdom and Canada. 
Review timeline 
14. The following table outlines the timeline of key events for the ACCC in this 
matter. 
Date 
Event 
25 August 2015 
ACCC commenced review under the Merger 
Process Guidelines. 
15 September 2015 
Closing date for submissions from interested parties. 


 
Page 3 of 9 
5 November 2015 
ACCC published a Statement of Issues outlining 
preliminary competition concerns. 
19 November 2015 
Closing date for submissions relating to Statement 
of Issues. 
24 November 2015 
Former proposed decision date of 15 December 
2015 delayed at the request of the merger parties. 
10 March 2016 
ACCC commenced market consultation on draft 
proposed divestment undertaking. ACCC timeline 
recommenced. 
21 March 2016 
Closing date for submissions relating to the draft 
proposed divestment undertaking. 
31 March 2016 
ACCC announced it would not oppose the proposed 
acquisition. 
15. The total elapsed time from start to finish was approximately seven months. 
However, the total period net of time taken by the parties to submit information or 
documents and delays requested by the parties was only 59 business days. 
Market inquiries 
16. The ACCC conducted market inquiries with a range of industry participants, 
including competitors of the parties, customers, suppliers of inputs, industry 
bodies, other regulatory agencies and other interested parties. Submissions 
were sought in relation to the substantive competition issues and the proposed 
undertaking. 
Statement of Issues 
17. On 5 November 2015, the ACCC published a Statement of Issues on the 
proposed acquisition identifying a number of competition issues. 
18. In the Statement of Issues, the ACCC stated its preliminary view that the 
proposed acquisition would be likely to substantially lessen competition in a 
national market for the supply of PDMS. 
19. The ACCC also stated a preliminary view that the proposed acquisition may lead 
to a substantial lessening of competition in regional markets, centred on each 
state and territory capital city (excluding the Northern Territory), for the supply of 
PDMS. 
Industry background and areas of overlap 
Overview of industry 
20. The information management industry in Australia provides services relating to 
the storage, protection, retrieval and disposal of physical (paper) and digital 


 
Page 4 of 9 
records. While some organisations undertake these activities themselves, others 
outsource to third party providers such as Iron Mountain and Recall. 
21. Information management services include four lines of business: 
a. 
PDMS – the storage and retrieval of physical documents for archiving or 
destruction. 
b. 
Digital document management services – scanning and electronically 
storing large numbers of physical records for easier retrieval, archiving or 
as part of a business process such as a mail room. 
c. 
Data protection services – the storage of backup or archival data on tapes, 
disks and/or cloud mediums. 
d. 
Secure destruction services – collecting, shredding and disposing of hard 
copy documents securely. 
Areas of overlap 
22. The merger parties overlap in the supply of PDMS, digital document 
management services and data protection services. There is no overlap in the 
supply of secure destruction services as Iron Mountain sold its shredding 
business in 2014. 
23. Feedback from market participants focused primarily on the potential for adverse 
competition effects in the market for the supply of PDMS.  
24. In the Statement of Issues, the ACCC expressed the preliminary view that the 
proposed acquisition would be unlikely to raise concerns in markets relating to 
the supply of digital document management services and data protection 
services. The ACCC did not receive any significant concerns from the market 
about these services after the Statement of Issues was published. 
25. Accordingly, this Public Competition Assessment focusses on the supply of 
PDMS. 
Physical document management services 
26. Broadly, the supply of PDMS encompasses the storage of boxes or files and the 
activities associated with the stored boxes or files. The main processes involved 
in PDMS are: 
a. 
pick-up & transport - collecting a customer’s records and transporting them 
to a storage facility 
b. 
cataloguing - cataloguing records into a document management system 
c. 
storage - securely storing records in storage facility 
d. 
retrieval - retrieving records and delivering to the customer on request (and 
returning to storage as required) 
e. 
destruction - securely destroying records when they are no longer needed. 


 
Page 5 of 9 
27.  The main types of PDMS customers are firms and agencies in the following 
industry sectors: 
a. 
financial services 
b. 
government  
c. 
health services 
d. 
professional services. 
28. The customer base includes a large number of small to medium enterprises and 
non-profit organisations, and ranges up to include some of Australia’s largest 
businesses and government departments. Some of these customers have a 
national or semi-national presence, with PDMS requirements in more than one 
region. Some customers have PDMS requirements that mean they value dealing 
with a single PDMS supplier. 
29. PDMS suppliers tend to be located in capital cities where the concentration of 
business activity lies. Storage facilities are usually situated relatively close to 
where customers are in major city or regional centres to limit transport costs and 
provide timely services (such as document retrieval). 
30. Based on data obtained from a number of sources, it was estimated that 
together Recall and Iron Mountain provide between 59 and 71 per cent of all 
PDMS in Australia. 
31. Other significant players in PDMS include Grace and to some extent TIMG, both 
of which have a presence in most of the large cities. No other provider has a 
footprint that includes the three largest regional markets of Melbourne, Sydney 
and Brisbane. 
Market definition 
32. The relevant markets were considered to be: 
 a national market for the supply of PDMS 
 regional markets, centred on each state and territory capital city, for the 
supply of PDMS. 
Product dimension 
33. The ACCC considered whether digital document storage is a close substitute for 
physical document storage. 
34. For documents that have already been created, the ACCC’s market inquiries 
suggested that it is generally much less expensive to retain holdings in hard 
copy until destruction than convert them to digital format. 
35. The ACCC recognises that there is a trend towards the digitisation of 
documents, with organisations redesigning established business practices to 
create only digital documents. However: 


 
Page 6 of 9 
a. 
there is ongoing demand for document storage by organisations that are 
still creating physical documents 
b. 
market participants told the ACCC that it can be costly, or create significant 
business disruption, to redesign established business practices to create 
digital instead of physical documents 
c. 
the ACCC's market inquiries indicated that a 5-10 per cent increase in the 
price of PDMS would not be likely to materially affect the rate at which 
customers are switching from creating paper to digital records. 
36. For these reasons, the ACCC considered that digital document storage services 
are a relatively weak substitute for PDMS for many customers. 
Geographic dimension 
37. The ACCC considered that competition may occur at more than one geographic 
level. In this matter, the ACCC concluded that competition for the supply of 
PDMS occurs on two geographic levels: regional and national (or multi-regional). 
Regional markets 
38. PDMS customers typically require their documents to be stored in a location that 
is close by (for example, in the same city). Storing documents close by 
minimises: 
a. 
the time required to retrieve a document from storage (many customers 
value access to their documents at short notice) 
b. 
the transport costs associated with storing a document initially, and 
retrieving a document from storage. 
39. Accordingly, customers do not consider suppliers of PDMS that only have 
facilities in more distant locations (for example, in a different state) to be close 
substitutes for suppliers based in the same region as the customer. 
40. For this reason, the ACCC considered that regional markets are likely to exist for 
PDMS, centred on state or territory capital cities where there is a large customer 
base. However, the ACCC did not reach a concluded view on the precise 
geographic dimension of each regional market as the competition issues were 
not materially affected by the precise geographic boundary of the markets. 
National market 
41. The ACCC spoke with a number of large customers with a national or multi-
regional presence, such as large corporate and government customers. They 
told the ACCC that they tender for and prefer to contract with a single provider 
who can meet their PDMS needs in all their locations, rather than having 
separate agreements with different suppliers in each regional market. Dealing 
with only one supplier may allow the customer to receive more significant 
volume-based discounts, simplifies and reduces the costs of procurement and 
contract management, and allows a central approach to document management 
and retrieval, even where documents are held in multiple locations. 


 
Page 7 of 9 
42. As noted above, Iron Mountain, Recall, Grace and to some extent TIMG have a 
national presence with multiple warehouses in different locations. These are the 
only four suppliers with the footprint and systems to service the needs of 
customers requiring a national or multi-regional service provider. The ACCC’s 
market inquiries suggested that smaller providers that do not have a national 
presence cannot readily expand their footprint without significant new 
investment. Inquiries suggest that it is difficult and rare for smaller providers to 
secure sufficient new business to underwrite investment in warehouse capacity 
in new locations. 
43. For these reasons, the ACCC considered that a national market is also likely to 
exist for PDMS, in addition to regional markets. 
Competition analysis 
44. The ACCC formed the view that the proposed acquisition would be likely to lead 
to a substantial lessening of competition in the national PDMS market. 
45. The ACCC concluded that there are a limited number of suppliers that compete 
for PDMS customers with national or multi-regional needs – Iron Mountain, 
Recall, Grace and to some extent TIMG. The ACCC further concluded that of 
these four suppliers, Recall and Iron Mountain are the two largest suppliers (and 
each other’s closest competitor) for the supply of PDMS nationally. 
46. Many large customers with national or multi-regional needs said they use the 
competition between Iron Mountain and Recall to negotiate better deals, 
including through tender processes and benchmarking. The proposed acquisition 
would remove the strong competitive constraint that Iron Mountain and Recall 
currently impose on each other. 
47. The ACCC’s market inquiries suggested large customers with national or multi-
regional needs considered Grace and TIMG to be less competitive. This was at 
least in part attributed to Grace and TIMG not having the same scale and 
established reputation as Iron Mountain and Recall. 
Barriers to entry / expansion 
48. The ACCC considers that there are high barriers to entry and expansion in the 
national PDMS market, particularly given the high cost faced by many customers 
when switching to new or expanding suppliers.  
49. The storage of physical documents is a mature industry. As mentioned above at 
paragraph 27, the main types of PDMS customers are firms and agencies in the 
financial services, government, health services and professional services 
industries. These are stable industries in which the main firms are unlikely to 
change in the near term. There is also a trend towards creation and storage of 
new documents in digital form (discussed at paragraph 35). Accordingly, a small 
PDMS supplier or new entrant cannot expand rapidly merely by attracting new 
customers to the industry. Expansion typically requires winning existing 
customers from their existing PDMS supplier. 
50. However, the PDMS market is characterised by a high level of customer 
stickiness. Customers do not switch suppliers often. The ACCC understands that 


 
Page 8 of 9 
a key reason for customer stickiness is the widespread inclusion of permanent 
retrieval fees in contracts. Permanent retrieval fees are a charge (per box or file) 
to permanently remove records from a warehouse. These fees can be significant 
relative to the potential savings offered by a new supplier on ongoing storage 
costs. They have the effect of limiting the extent of customer switching and 
therefore reduce the potential for new entry and expansion by incumbents. 
51. While competitors may offer to pay a customer's permanent retrieval fee, this is 
likely to be very costly for a smaller supplier (especially when competing for large 
national customers). It may make cost management and competitive pricing 
even more difficult for new entrants relative to the incumbency advantage of 
existing providers, who receive permanent retrieval fees when they lose a 
customer to a rival. 
52. Consistent with this assessment, there has been minimal large-scale new entry 
or expansion in recent years except via acquisition. While Compu-stor (originally 
based in Perth) has expanded its operations to Victoria and NSW, it remains a 
small provider in these two regions, and the expansion has taken many years. 
Recent history provides no examples of regional providers expanding to be able 
to meet the requirements of large customers with a national or multi-regional 
presence. 
53. The ACCC considered that these barriers to entry and expansion would prevent 
the competition lost as a result of the proposed acquisition from being replaced 
by the entry of new firms, or expansion of existing smaller firms, within the 
foreseeable future. 
Competition issues in regional markets 
54. The ACCC considered that many of the factors identified in the competition 
analysis of the national PDMS market also apply to the various regional markets. 
However, the ACCC did not have to reach a concluded position on whether the 
proposed acquisition would be likely to substantially lessen competition in one or 
more regional markets, as it considered that the enforceable undertaking also 
addressed its competition concerns in these markets. 
Undertaking 
55. In order to address the ACCC’s competition concerns, Iron Mountain provided a 
court enforceable undertaking pursuant to section 87B of the Act to divest almost 
all of its Australian business, by means of a sale of its subsidiary Iron Mountain 
Australia Pty Ltd, to a purchaser approved by the ACCC. 
56. The divestiture business includes: 
a. 
all Iron Mountain customer contracts for the supply of PDMS, excluding 
those customers whose holdings are only located in the Northern Territory 
b. 
all customer contracts for the supply of digital document management 
services, excluding those customers whose holdings are only located in 
the Northern Territory 
c. 
ownership or leases of 17 storage facilities across all states and territories, 
excluding the Northern Territory 


 
Page 9 of 9 
d. 
employees and contractors who are wholly or primarily engaged in, or 
necessary for, the operation of the divestiture business 
e. 
ownership or licences of IT systems used in Iron Mountain's PDMS and 
digital document management services operations. 
57. Iron Mountain will retain: 
a. 
the Iron Mountain brand 
b. 
PDMS and digital document management service customers located only 
in the Northern Territory 
c. 
its data protection services business 
d. 
its storage facilities across all states and territory used solely for data 
protection services, and the facilities used for PDMS and digital document 
management services in the Northern Territory. 
58. The ACCC considers that the divestiture will largely maintain the pre-merger 
competitive balance in the national market for the supply of PDMS. While the 
proposed acquisition would eliminate the competition between Iron Mountain and 
Recall, the divested business should be an effective independent competitor to 
Iron Mountain and other PDMS suppliers. In effect, the divestiture would unwind 
the proposed acquisition in the markets of concern in Australia. On this basis, 
the ACCC considers that the undertaking addresses the ACCC’s competition 
concerns with the proposed acquisition. 
59. The ACCC considers that the proposed acquisition does not raise competition 
concerns in respect of the business areas being retained by Iron Mountain 
(namely, its local PDMS and digital document management customers in the 
Northern Territory and its data protection services business). 
Conclusion 
60. Based on the above analysis, the ACCC concluded that the proposed acquisition 
of Recall by Iron Mountain, in conjunction with the undertaking, would not be 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in any market. 
