 
Page 1 of 16 
 
Statement of Issues 
5 November 2015 
Iron Mountain Incorporated – proposed acquisition of 
Recall Holdings Limited  
Purpose 
1. 
This Statement of issues aims to: 
a. 
give the preliminary views of the Australian Competition and Consumer 
Commission (ACCC) on competition issues arising from Iron Mountain 
Incorporated’s (Iron Mountain) proposed acquisition of Recall Holdings 
Limited (Recall) 
b. 
identify areas of further inquiry 
c. 
give all interested parties an opportunity to comment 
d. 
invite interested parties to submit information to assist us in our 
assessment of the issues. 
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views 
2. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is 
in section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the Act). Section 50 
prohibits acquisitions that substantially lessen competition in a market, or are 
likely to do so.  
3. 
The ACCC divides its preliminary views into three categories, 'issues of concern', 
'issues that may raise concerns' and ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’. 
Issue of concern 
4. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition would be likely to lead to 
a substantial lessening of competition in a national market for the supply of 
physical document management services (PDMS). 
Issue that may raise concerns 
5. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition may lead to a substantial 
lessening of competition in regional markets, centred on each state and territory 
capital city (excluding the Northern Territory), for the supply of PDMS. 
Issues unlikely to raise concerns 
6. 
The ACCC does not consider that the proposed acquisition would be likely to 
lead to a substantial lessening of competition in markets relating to the supply of: 
a. 
digital document management services  
b. 
data protection services. 


Iron Mountain – proposed acquisition of Recall 
 
Page 2 of 16 
Making a submission 
7. 
The ACCC is seeking submissions from interested parties, particularly on the 
following key issues: 
a. the geographic dimension of regional markets for the supply of PDMS 
b. whether competition occurs in a multi-regional or national market in addition 
to regional competition 
c. whether small to medium-sized PDMS providers, who do not have a national 
presence, could supply large or national customers 
d. the extent to which existing PDMS providers constrain the merger parties 
e. barriers to entry and expansion in PDMS markets. 
8. 
This Statement of Issues contains detailed discussion of these and other issues, 
along with specific questions.  
9. 
Interested parties should provide submissions by no later than 5pm on 
19 November 2015. Responses may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with 
the title: Submission re: Iron Mountain proposed acquisition of Recall - attention 
Jason Byrne. If you would like to discuss the matter with ACCC officers over the 
telephone or in person, or have any questions about this SOI, please contact 
Jason Byrne on (02) 6243 1279.  
10. 
The ACCC anticipates making a final decision on 15 December 2015, however, 
this timeline can change. To keep abreast of possible changes in relation to 
timing and to find relevant documents, interested parties should visit the Mergers 
Register on the ACCC's website at www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
Confidentiality of submissions 
11. 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We 
will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) 
unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation 
or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition 
and Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where possible so that you may 
have an opportunity to be heard. Therefore, if the information provided to the 
ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines contain more information. 
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’ 
12. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well 
as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
13. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to consider the 
primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide the merger 
parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further submissions 
should they wish to do so. 


Iron Mountain – proposed acquisition of Recall 
 
Page 3 of 16 
Timeline 
Date 
Event 
25 August 2015 
ACCC commenced review of the proposed 
acquisition 
5 November 2015 
ACCC publication of Statement of Issues 
19 November 2015 
Closing date for submissions relating to Statement of 
Issues 
15 December 2015 
Proposed date for announcement of ACCC’s final 
decision  
The parties 
The acquirer: Iron Mountain Incorporated 
14. 
Iron Mountain is a global supplier in the information management industry. It is 
headquartered in the United States and listed on the New York Stock Exchange. 
In 2014, Iron Mountain had revenues of US$3.1 billion. 
15. 
In Australia, Iron Mountain carries on business through its subsidiary Iron 
Mountain Australia Pty Ltd. As a national supplier, it has a presence in every 
state and territory. 
The vendor: Recall Holdings Limited 
16. 
Recall is an Australian listed public company that is a global supplier in the 
information management industry. In 2014, Recall had revenues of US$836 
million. 
17. 
Recall is a large national supplier, operating in every Australian state and 
territory, except the Northern Territory. 
Other industry participants 
Grace Records Management  
18. 
Grace Records Management Pty Ltd (Grace) is a national supplier of information 
management services in Australia, with operations in every state and territory. It 
is an Australian private company and part of the Crown Worldwide Group 
(Crown). Crown is a global transportation, relocation, logistics and storage 
business with a presence in 60 countries. Records management is one of six 
divisions of Crown. 
The Information Management Group  
19. 
The Information Management Group (TIMG) is a supplier of information 
management services in Australia that operates in every state and territory. It is 
a wholly owned subsidiary of Freightways Limited, a New Zealand listed public 
company that provides express package and business mail services in New 
Zealand and information management services across Australia and 
New Zealand. 


Iron Mountain – proposed acquisition of Recall 
 
Page 4 of 16 
Compu-stor 
20. 
Compu-stor is a privately owned Australian information management company. 
Established in 1987 in Perth, it has expanded to Victoria (in 2007) and NSW (in 
2015).  
Archivewise 
21. 
Archivewise is a privately owned Australian information management company 
based and operating in Perth. 
Other providers 
22. 
Three other non-national PDMS providers operate in more than one state: 
Advance Record Management, Fileman and Save My Records. Advance Record 
Management has operations in NSW, Queensland, South Australia, Tasmania 
and Victoria. Both Fileman and Save My Records operate in NSW, Queensland 
and Victoria.  
23. 
There are a number of small to medium-sized PDMS providers that are based in 
major city centres. Most of these providers operate within one region only. These 
providers include Document Management Solutions (Sydney), CTI Records 
Management (Perth), RecDoc (Melbourne) and M.S.S. Records Management 
Services (Canberra). 
The proposed acquisition 
24. 
Iron Mountain proposes to acquire Recall by a scheme of arrangement. Under 
the proposed transaction, Iron Mountain will acquire all of Recall’s operations, 
including in Australia, North America, South America, Europe and the Asia-
Pacific. 
25. 
The proposed acquisition is also being considered by competition authorities in 
the United States, United Kingdom and Canada. 
Industry background 
26. 
The information management industry in Australia provides services relating to 
the storage, protection, retrieval and disposal of physical (paper) and digital 
records. 
27. 
Information management services include four lines of business: 
a. 
Physical document management services – the storage and retrieval of 
physical documents for archiving or destruction. 
b. 
Digital document management services – scanning and electronically 
storing large numbers of physical records for easier retrieval, archiving or 
as part of a business process such as mail room. 
c. 
Data protection services – the storage of backup or archival data on tapes, 
disk and/or cloud mediums. 
d. 
Secure destruction services – collecting, shredding and disposing of hard 
copy documents securely. 
28. 
This Statement of Issues focuses on PDMS, because this is the main area of 
overlap between the merger parties that raises competition concerns (as 
discussed at paragraph 43 below). 


Iron Mountain – proposed acquisition of Recall 
 
Page 5 of 16 
Pick-up & 
Transport 
 
Pick-up of 
customer’s 
records and 
transporting to 
storage facility 
 
 
Cataloguing 
 
Cataloguing 
records into an 
electronic 
document 
management 
system  
 
Storage 
 
Securely 
storing 
records in 
provider’s 
storage 
facility 
 
Retrieval 
 
Retrieving records 
(sometimes 
permanently) and 
delivering to 
customer 
 
 
Destruction 
 
Securely 
destroying 
records at 
end of life 
 
 
 
Physical document management services 
Overview of PDMS 
29. 
Broadly, the supply of PDMS encompasses the storage of boxes or files and the 
activities associated with the stored boxes or files. The processes involved in 
PDMS are illustrated in the figure below. 
Figure 1: Overview of PDMS processes 
Charges and costs 
30. 
Many customers conduct tender processes for PDMS or hire procurement firms 
to conduct such processes. Charges to customers can vary for a range of 
reasons, including the intensity of competition, the size of the customer 
(customers may pay lower prices for higher volumes) and the supplier’s cost 
base. Physical document storage is typically charged monthly per box or file.  
31. 
Many of the costs of providing PDMS are fixed in the short to medium term. 
Larger PDMS suppliers enjoy economies of scale from storing higher volumes 
and spreading such fixed costs, resulting in lower per unit (box) costs. 
Consumers of PDMS 
32. 
The main types of PDMS customers are: 
a. 
financial services 
b. 
government agencies 
c. 
health services 
d. 
professional services. 
33. 
The customer base includes a large number of small to medium enterprises and 
non-profit organisations, and ranges up to Australia’s largest businesses and 
government departments. Some of these customers have a national or semi-
national presence, with PDMS requirements in more than one region. Some 
customers have PDMS requirements that mean they value dealing with a single 
PDMS supplier. 
34. 
Many businesses and organisations retain and protect records to comply with 
statutory or business requirements. While some organisations undertake these 
activities themselves, others outsource to third party providers. These 
arrangements are generally referred to in the industry as ‘unvended’ and 
‘vended’ respectively. Many vended organisations also store some records in-
house, in particular records that are highly active. 
Suppliers of PDMS 
35. 
PDMS suppliers tend to be located in capital cities where the concentration of 
business activity lies. Storage facilities are usually situated relatively close to 


Iron Mountain – proposed acquisition of Recall 
 
Page 6 of 16 
where customers are in major city or regional centres to limit transport costs and 
provide timely services (such as document retrieval).  
Industry trends 
36. 
The growth of digitisation in recent years has led to an increase in demand for 
digital storage, impacting the growth of physical storage services. Some 
companies are transitioning towards ‘paper-light’ operations, creating and storing 
only digital records.  
37. 
Despite this trend, the PDMS market is still expected to grow over the coming 
years (although more slowly than in the past). This is because some businesses 
and organisations are still creating physical records to satisfy their business 
needs, with many records being stored for substantial periods of time.  
38. 
Legislative requirements further drive demand in the PDMS market. 
Organisations are required by law to create and store certain records, such as 
tax records and health records, for a specified period of time. Therefore, new 
storage capacity is continuously required.  
39. 
PDMS currently accounts for approximately 56% of the revenue in the 
information management industry, while digitisation services makes up 23%.1 
40. 
There has also been a trend of consolidation within the industry in recent years. 
Smaller PDMS providers are being acquired as companies seek to increase 
market share, expand their national footprint and achieve economies of scale.  
Future with and without the acquisition  
41. 
Section 50 of the Act prohibits mergers or acquisitions that would have the effect 
or be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
In assessing a proposed acquisition pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC 
considers the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future competitive 
environment post-acquisition if the acquisition proceeds (the “with” position) to 
the likely future competitive environment if the acquisition does not proceed (the 
“without” position) to determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in any relevant market. 
42. 
On the basis of the information currently available, the ACCC considers that in a 
future without the proposed acquisition Iron Mountain and Recall would continue 
operating as independent businesses. 
Areas of overlap 
43. 
The merger parties overlap in the supply of: 
a. 
PDMS 
b. 
digital document management services 
c. 
data protection services. 
44. 
Feedback from market participants has primarily focused on the potential for 
adverse competition effects in the market for the supply of PDMS. The merger 
parties are not large suppliers of digital document management services. As 
                                                 
 
1 IBISWorld Industry Report OD5517, ‘Document Management Services in Australia’, January 2015. 


Iron Mountain – proposed acquisition of Recall 
 
Page 7 of 16 
such, they do not have a substantial share of the market(s) in relation the supply 
of these services.  
45. 
The merger parties are large suppliers of data protection services (mainly tape 
and disk storage, as well as tape sales). However, the ACCC has not received 
market feedback to date suggesting the proposed acquisition would give rise to 
competition concerns in this market.  
46. 
The ACCC notes that while Recall supplies secure destruction services, Iron 
Mountain no longer provides such services, having recently sold its shredding 
business. The parties therefore do not overlap in the supply of these services.  
47. 
Accordingly, this Statement of Issues focuses on the market for the supply of 
PDMS. 
Market definition 
48. 
The ACCC’s starting point for delineating relevant markets to assess the 
competitive effects of the proposed acquisition involves identifying the products 
actually or potentially supplied by the merger parties. The ACCC then considers 
what other products constitute sufficiently close substitutes to provide a 
significant source of constraint on the merged entity. For the reasons set out 
above, the ACCC is focused on PDMS. 
Product dimension 
49. 
The ACCC is considering whether digital document storage is a close substitute 
for physical document storage.  
50. 
There is a trend towards the digitisation of documents, as discussed above. 
However, this does not necessarily mean that digital document storage should 
be considered part of the relevant market for assessing the proposed acquisition.  
51. 
The ACCC draws on the conceptual framework provided by the hypothetical 
monopolist test to define relevant markets. The hypothetical monopolist test asks 
whether customers would switch to an alternative product (such as digital 
document storage) in the event of a small but significant non-transitory increase 
in price (such as a 5-10 per cent increase in PDMS prices). If enough customers 
switch to an alternative product, then that product may be considered a close 
substitute and may be included in the product dimension of the relevant market. 
52. 
The ACCC’s market inquiries indicate that a 5-10 per cent price increase in 
PDMS would not be likely to materially affect the rate at which customers are 
switching from paper to digital records. 
53. 
Further, some organisations are not able to switch to digital records, given they 
must comply with statutory or other requirements to retain certain documents in 
hard copy. 
54. 
Market inquiries also suggest that it is generally more cost effective to retain 
holdings in hard copy until destruction than convert them to digital format.  
55. 
Interested parties have also indicated that it can be costly, or create significant 
business disruption, to redesign established business practices to create only 
digital documents.  
56. 
Organisations that have an ongoing demand for document storage are still 
creating physical documents. The ongoing demand for physical document 
storage and PDMS more broadly can be seen in the existence of specialised 


Iron Mountain – proposed acquisition of Recall 
 
Page 8 of 16 
PDMS providers that seek to meet the needs of customers by providing such a 
service. 
57. 
Given the above factors, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that digital document 
storage services are a relatively weak substitute for PDMS where customers 
require such a service. This does not mean that digitisation is excluded from the 
ACCC’s analysis. The ACCC is further considering the extent to which 
digitisation would provide a constraint on the merged entity, particularly in light of 
broader trends (see paragraph 88 below). 
Geographic dimension  
58. 
The ACCC considers that competition may occur at more than one geographic 
level. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the market for the supply of PDMS 
covers two geographic levels: regional and national. 
Regional markets 
59. 
Inquiries indicate that customers with holdings in a particular region use 
suppliers in the same region. For retrieval purposes, time-sensitive customers 
value access to their documents at short notice. In addition, inquiries suggest 
that customers are attentive to costs and do not consider suppliers of PDMS in 
more distant locations (e.g. in a different state) to be close substitutes for 
suppliers based in the same region as the customer, given transport costs. 
60. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that regional markets are mainly centred on 
state or territory capital cities where there is a large customer base. However the 
ACCC has not sought to precisely define the geographic dimension of each 
regional market for the purposes of this Statement of Issues. The competition 
issues in each regional market are unlikely to be materially affected by 
consideration of the precise geographic boundary of the market. 
National market 
61. 
Inquiries indicate that large customers with a national or multi-regional presence, 
such as large corporate and government customers tender for, and contract with, 
a single provider who can meet their PDMS needs in all their locations. This 
arrangement allows such customers to receive significant volume-based 
discounts. Dealing with only one supplier also simplifies and reduces the costs of 
procurement and contract management, and allows a central approach to 
document management and retrieval, even where documents are held in 
multiple locations. 
62. 
Iron Mountain, Recall, Grace and to a lesser extent TIMG have a national 
presence with multiple warehouses in different locations. They have the footprint 
and systems to service the needs of customers requiring a national or multi-
regional solution. Inquiries suggest that smaller providers that do not have a 
national presence cannot readily expand their offer without significant new 
investment. Inquiries suggest that it is difficult for smaller providers to secure 
committed business necessary to achieve the economies of scale required to 
underwrite investment in additional warehouse capacity. 
63. 
Therefore, this Statement of Issues considers the effect of the proposed 
acquisition in a national PDMS market. For this purpose, a reference to a 
‘national’ supplier or customer includes large customers that operate in more 
than one state or territory (that is, multi-regional), and suppliers that can service 
their needs. 


Iron Mountain – proposed acquisition of Recall 
 
Page 9 of 16 
Preliminary view on relevant markets 
64. 
Based on information received by the ACCC to date, the ACCC’s preliminary 
view is that the markets relevant for assessing the competition effects of the 
acquisition are: 
a. 
regional markets, centred on each state and territory capital city, for the 
supply of PDMS 
b. 
a national market for the supply of PDMS (including multi-regional supply). 
Questions for interested parties 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary views about 
the definition of the relevant market(s). In particular market participants may wish to 
comment on the following: 
 
Would customers and/or suppliers substitute digital document storage for physical 
document storage if the price of PDMS were to increase by 5-10 per cent? Why or 
why not? Please provide examples. 
 
Could PDMS suppliers only operating in one region readily expand to serve 
customers in another region, or expand into several regions to meet the needs of a 
large national supply contract? 
 
How far do PDMS suppliers travel to service customers? Do these distances differ 
depending on whether the customer is a national customer or not?  
Issue of concern: Reduction in competition in the national 
PDMS market 
65. 
Based upon its inquiries to date, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the 
proposed acquisition is likely to lead to a substantial lessening of competition in 
the national PDMS market as a result of the elimination of close and significant 
competition between Recall and Iron Mountain. This would lessen the 
constraints faced by Iron Mountain and would be likely to lead to an increase in 
prices and/or a reduction in service. 
Market concentration 
66. 
Based on data supplied by different interested parties, national market share 
estimates for the supply of PDMS are provided in Table 1 on the next page. The 
estimates are provided as ranges to account for differences in parties’ views. 


Iron Mountain – proposed acquisition of Recall 
 
Page 10 of 16 
Table 1: National market share estimates for supply of PDMS 2014-15 
PDMS supplier 
Estimate share % (range)2 
Recall 
37-55 
Iron Mountain 
16-22 
Merged entity 
59-71 
Grace 
15-19 
TIMG 
5-9 
Others  
9-14 
Source: Interested parties.  
67. 
Based on these estimates, the table above shows the merged entity would have 
a share of between 59 and 71 per cent.  
Elimination of competition between two close competitors 
68. 
Market inquiries indicate that Recall and Iron Mountain are close competitors, 
particularly for the supply of PDMS nationally. As the two largest suppliers, they 
each provide a strong constraint on each other, which would no longer exist after 
the acquisition. Both merger parties have a large geographic presence and enjoy 
economies of scale. Inquiries indicate that large customers use the competition 
between Iron Mountain and Recall to negotiate better deals, including through 
tender processes and benchmarking. The removal of Recall would remove this 
competition. 
Constraints from existing suppliers 
Specialised PDMS providers 
69. 
Grace and to a lesser extent TIMG, the third and fourth largest suppliers 
respectively, also compete to supply customers with national requirements. 
However feedback suggests that TIMG and smaller suppliers may not have the 
same capacity, in terms of the location of their facilities or the level of their 
services, as Iron Mountain and Recall to compete effectively on this geographic 
scale. The ACCC is further considering the degree of constraint provided by 
Grace and TIMG and is seeking further information from stakeholders. 
70. 
Inquiries suggest that smaller suppliers operate in limited geographic areas and 
do not enjoy the same economies of scale as large suppliers. Given their limited 
geographic presence and smaller scale, they do not have the ability to compete 
effectively for national customers.  
71. 
Inquiries indicate that smaller suppliers are not a strong competitive constraint 
because they are not able to offer the same discounts as larger national 
providers and do not have the ability to provide a coordinated and comparable 
level of service covering all of the customer’s national requirements. 
Self-storage providers 
72. 
Self-storage providers are similarly unlikely to constrain the merged entity. 
Inquiries indicate that self-storage providers generally cater for households and 
small businesses that have few boxes to store.  
73. 
Self-storage providers may be an option for some customers with basic 
document requirements. However given that national customers have greater 
                                                 
 
2 Share estimates are based on the sum of the various estimates from each interested party that provided 
an estimate. Therefore the range of estimates for the merged entity is narrower than the sum of the lowest 
and highest estimates of the merger parties’ individual shares. 


Iron Mountain – proposed acquisition of Recall 
 
Page 11 of 16 
and more sophisticated document storage, management and retrieval 
requirements, self-storage providers would be unlikely to impose a constraint on 
the merged entity in the national market. 
Public sector providers 
74. 
Public sector providers, such as the National Archives of Australia and various 
state-based government records authorities, only service government agencies 
and other public bodies. They tend to focus on providing specialised services for 
records of a particular nature – such as records that are deemed to have a 
certain public value. Inquiries indicate that government entities seek to outsource 
to private PDMS providers to service their general document storage needs. 
Accordingly, given the limited scope of public sector providers’ activities, such 
providers are unlikely to constrain the merged entity, including in the national 
PDMS market. 
Barriers to entry and expansion 
75. 
Market feedback indicates that there are high barriers to entry and expansion in 
the national PDMS market. These barriers include: 
a. 
customer stickiness 
b. 
sunk entry costs 
c. 
economies of scale 
d. 
supplier reputation. 
76. 
These barriers are also relevant in regional PDMS markets, which are discussed 
below. However, they are exacerbated in the national market given the need to 
replicate a regional business across multiple locations. 
77. 
Feedback suggests that there has been minimal large-scale new entry or 
expansion in recent years except via acquisition. While Compu-stor (originally 
based in Perth) has expanded its operations to Victoria and NSW, it remains a 
small provider in these two regions, and the expansion has taken many years. 
Inquiries have not provided other examples of regional providers expanding to 
be able to meet the national requirements of large customers.  
78. 
The PDMS market is characterised by a high level of customer stickiness. 
Customers do not switch suppliers often. Estimates suggest that churn rates 
within the industry are very low. Inquiries suggest the main reasons for this 
customer stickiness are: 
a. 
the presence of long-term contracts 
b. 
significant switching costs. 
79. 
The presence of long-term contracts limits the extent of customer switching. 
Even after a contract term has expired, it appears that customers do not 
generally switch suppliers.  
80. 
At the end of a contract, customers face high costs to retrieve their documents if 
they want to switch providers. These costs can be exacerbated by permanent 
retrieval fees. Permanent retrieval fees are a charge (per box or file) to 
permanently remove records from a warehouse. These fees can be significant 
relative to the potential savings from a new supplier on ongoing storage costs. 
They have the effect of limiting the extent of customer switching and deter 
potential new entry and incumbents from expanding. 
81. 
While competitors may offer to pay a customer’s permanent retrieval fee, this is 
likely to be very costly for a smaller supplier. It may make cost management and 


Iron Mountain – proposed acquisition of Recall 
 
Page 12 of 16 
competitive pricing even more difficult for new entrants relative to the 
incumbency advantage of existing providers, who receive permanent retrieval 
fees when they lose a customer to a rival.  
82. 
Another barrier suggested by interested parties is costs relating to the 
establishment of a PDMS business, many of which are sunk costs. These entry 
costs include sales and marketing, warehouse facilities (such as lease or build 
costs), internal warehouse fit-out and information technology systems. While 
they may be scalable to some degree, inquiries indicate that these costs are 
high, relative to revenues at start-up. It can take many years to turn a profit and 
recoup costs. 
83. 
Economies of scale also act as a deterrent to large-scale entry and expansion. A 
large volume of holdings is required to spread fixed costs and realise scale 
economies. Moreover, adding large capacity to a market with relatively low 
growth would create excess supply. The expected returns may not be attractive 
for potential entrants. This limits the viability of entry and expansion, particularly 
given the difficulty of winning customers from incumbent competitors to generate 
the economies of scale required to operate competitively. 
84. 
Feedback suggests that supplier reputation may also be important as customers 
are entrusting providers with confidential, private or otherwise sensitive 
documents. Some customers may not be willing to switch to unknown or 
untested suppliers. This may be a more significant issue for larger customers. 
Ability of customers to bypass the merged entity 
85. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that customers do not have strong 
countervailing power. The following potential options for customers to bypass the 
merged entity do not appear sufficient to constrain the merged entity raising 
prices or degrading service. 
86. 
Disaggregating contracts. The ACCC has considered whether national 
customers might be able to disaggregate their contracts so as to use multiple 
suppliers (across various regions), thereby bypassing the merged entity. 
However, this would create higher costs and administrative burdens for such 
customers. Feedback indicates that national customers would be unlikely do so 
in the absence of a large price increase from the merged entity. Accordingly, it is 
doubtful that national customers wield countervailing power to constrain the 
merged entity in the national market. 
87. 
Insourcing. For businesses that have decided to outsource their PDMS 
requirements, inquiries suggest it is rare for them to revert (or credibly threaten 
to revert) to insourcing because it is not practical or cost effective to do so. 
88. 
Digitising the physical records. As discussed above under market definition, 
the ACCC considers that digitisation does not have a significant impact on the 
PDMS market, and is unlikely to do so in the foreseeable future. Inquiries have 
not provided any examples of customers switching all of their requirements to 
digital storage and ceasing to use PDMS in response to a price increase. 
Digitisation appears unlikely to impose a strong constraint on the merged entity. 
However, the ACCC is further considering the effect of digitisation as a 
constraint in the PDMS market. 
ACCC’s preliminary views 
89. 
In summary, the ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in the national market for the supply of PDMS. 
The proposed acquisition would combine two of the three largest competitors in 


Iron Mountain – proposed acquisition of Recall 
 
Page 13 of 16 
circumstances where the merged entity would not be subject to strong 
competitive constraint from other providers or new entrants, or any 
countervailing power of customers. 
Issue that may raise concern: Reduction in competition in 
regional PDMS markets  
90. 
Based upon its inquiries to date, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the 
proposed acquisition may substantially lessen competition in regional PDMS 
markets as a result of the removal of close and significant competition between 
Iron Mountain and Recall. 
91. 
Many of the factors identified in the competition analysis of the national PDMS 
market also apply to the various regional markets (excluding the Northern 
Territory). In particular, the merger parties: 
a. 
have high market shares in each of these regional markets 
b. 
face limited competitive constraints 
c. 
benefit from barriers to entry 
d. 
do not face customers with strong countervailing power.  
92. 
However there are some distinguishing features of regional PDMS markets, 
which are outlined below. Recall does not have operations in the Northern 
Territory. Any regional market in the Northern Territory is therefore excluded 
from the competition analysis below. The various regional markets will be dealt 
with together given their common features. 
Market concentration 
93. 
Based on data supplied by interested parties, estimates of PDMS providers in 
each relevant state/territory are provided in Table 2.3 
Table 2: PDMS share estimates (%) in states and territories 2014-15 
PDMS 
supplier 
NSW 
ACT 
VIC 
SA 
TAS 
WA 
QLD 
Recall 
53 
46 
44 
56 
31 
36 
42 
Iron 
Mountain 
17 
20 
22 
15 
46 
19 
17 
Merged 
entity* 
70 
66 
66 
71 
76 
55 
59 
Grace 
19 
20 
19 
15 
15 
7 
22 
TIMG 
5 
10 
5 
7 
6 
8 
7 
Compu-stor 
1 
- 
3 
- 
- 
15 
- 
Other 
providers 
7 
8 
6 
7 
8 
14 
8 
Source: Interested parties. 
                                                 
 
3 Table 2 shows the midpoint of estimates received from different interested parties, and therefore may 
not add to 100 per cent. The full range of estimates for the national market is shown in Table 1. Regional 
markets, which are centred on state/territory capital cities, may not neatly align with state/territory 
boundaries. Therefore the share estimates for each state/territory may not directly correspond to market 
shares in each regional market. 


Iron Mountain – proposed acquisition of Recall 
 
Page 14 of 16 
94. 
The merged entity would have consistently high shares across all states. 
Depending on the state, the market share of the merged entity would sit between 
55 and 76 per cent. 
Existing competitors 
95. 
Besides the merger parties, Grace and TIMG, several small and medium-sized 
providers operate in each region. Non-national customers in each region 
therefore have more choice amongst providers. Compared with the national 
PDMS market, the merged entity may face more constraint from smaller 
suppliers in each of these markets. 
96. 
Smaller providers operating within only one region typically: 
a. 
service small to medium sized customers who do not require storage of 
high volumes of records 
b. 
lack the economies of scale necessary to expand the scope of their service 
c. 
focus on quality and service. 
97. 
Smaller providers tend to differentiate themselves on quality and service. While 
smaller providers compete to some extent with larger providers in single regions, 
inquiries indicate they are unlikely to be significant price competitors as they lack 
the advantages of scale. For this reason, the additional constraint provided by 
smaller suppliers on the regional level may therefore still be limited when 
compared to the constraint that Iron Mountain and Recall impose on each other.  
Barriers to entry and expansion 
98. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the barriers to entry and expansion 
identified at paragraph 75 above also apply in regional markets, although there 
are added barriers to establishing a national presence. Even at a regional level, 
market inquiries suggest it would be difficult for new entrants, or expanding small 
players, to increase their scale significantly to become effective competitors to 
large PDMS providers.  
99. 
As indicated earlier, even where there has been expansion of smaller providers 
such as Compu-stor in Perth, they still have a very small market share. The 
market structure appears to have been relatively stable for a long period.  
100. Where there has been growth in market shares, it appears to have been largely 
due to acquisitions, with a smaller proportion attributable to organic growth. This 
suggests that there are barriers to significant entry and expansion. 
101. The ACCC is further considering the extent to which barriers identified at 
paragraph 75 above have an effect at the regional level. 
ACCC’s preliminary views 
102. The ACCC’s preliminary views is that the proposed acquisition may substantially 
lessen competition in regional markets for the supply of PDMS. 


Iron Mountain – proposed acquisition of Recall 
 
Page 15 of 16 
Questions for interested parties 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its competition analysis for 
both the national and regional PDMS markets. In particular market participants may 
wish to address the following questions. Please address both the national and regional 
markets in responses to the questions below.  
Both national and regional markets: 
 
Please explain whether you consider Iron Mountain and Recall to be close 
competitors for the supply of PDMS?  
 
To what extent would Grace, TIMG or other PDMS suppliers constrain the merged 
entity? 
 
Please provide examples of any new entrants or existing PDMS suppliers that 
have won material share in the PDMS market(s) in recent years. How much of their 
growth is attributable to winning customers from their competitors, as opposed to 
the acquisition of competitors? 
 
Do you agree that the barriers to entry and expansion identified by the ACCC at 
paragraph 75 constitute barriers? If so, do you consider these to be the main 
barriers? Are there any other barriers? 
 
Would customers be likely to bypass the merged entity by reverting to in-house 
PDMS or switching to digital storage if the price of PDMS were to increase? If so, 
what level of price increase would be sufficient to prompt such a response? 
 
Would national customers be likely to disaggregate contracts and use multiple 
suppliers (instead of a single supplier) if the price offered were to increase? If so, 
what level of price increase would be sufficient to prompt such a response? 
Issues unlikely to raise concerns: Supply of digital 
document management services and data protection 
services  
103. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the acquisition is unlikely to lead to a 
substantial lessening of competition in markets relating to the supply of: 
a. 
digital document management services 
b. 
data protection services. 
104. As indicated earlier, the ACCC has not received any significant concerns in 
relation to the supply of these services. The ACCC welcomes comments from 
any party who has competition concerns relating to the proposed acquisition and 
data protection services. Parties should contact the ACCC as part of its review 
process before 19 November 2015 (further details are provided below). 


Iron Mountain – proposed acquisition of Recall 
 
Page 16 of 16 
ACCC's future steps 
105. The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
106. As noted above, the ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on 
each of the issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue 
that may be relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. Submissions are 
to be received by the ACCC no later than 19 November 2015 and should be 
emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au. 
107. The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 15 December 2015. 
However the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Merger Review 
Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose of 
explaining the ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's public 
announcement. 
