Page 1 of 11 
 
Statement of Issues 
5 December 2013 
Woolworths Limited - proposed acquisition of the St Kilda 
Renaissance Supa IGA 
Introduction 
1. 
Outlined below is the Statement of Issues released by the Australian 
Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) on the proposed acquisition 
of the St Kilda Renaissance Supa IGA by Woolworths Limited (proposed 
acquisition). 
2. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well 
as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
3. 
In line with the ACCC’s Merger Review Process Guidelines (at 
www.accc.gov.au/processguidelines) the ACCC has established a secondary 
timeline for further consideration of the issues. The ACCC anticipates 
completing further market inquiries by 17 January 2014 and anticipates making 
a final decision on 6 February 2014. However, the anticipated timeline can 
change in line with the Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines. To keep 
abreast of possible changes in relation to timing and to find relevant 
documents, market participants should visit the Mergers Register on the 
ACCC's website at www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
4. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties 
(including customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to 
ascertain and consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also 
intended to provide the merger parties and other interested parties with the 
basis for making further submissions should they consider it necessary. The 
ACCC invites comments from these parties by 17 January 2014. 
Background 
5. 
The ACCC commenced its informal review of the proposed acquisition on 
16 October 2013. 


Woolworths Limited - proposed acquisition of the St Kilda Renaissance Supa IGA 
Page 2 of 11 
The parties 
The Acquirer: Woolworths Limited 
6. 
Woolworths Limited (Woolworths) is an Australian and New Zealand retailer. 
Its operations include supermarkets, petrol, liquor, general merchandise stores, 
hardware and home improvement. 
7. 
Woolworths is Australia’s largest grocery retailer. It operates over 800 
supermarkets across Australia. 
The Target – St Kilda Renaissance Supa IGA 
8. 
The St Kilda Renaissance Supa IGA  is a 1,259m2 supermarket located at 64 
Fitzroy Street in the Fitzroy Street shopping precinct in St Kilda, a suburb of 
Melbourne. 
9. 
The supermarket is considered by market participants to be ‘full-line’, meaning 
it retails a full range of groceries and fresh produce. It also has a large liquor 
section with both chilled and non-chilled products. The supermarket also has 
63 car parking spots and offers customers 1 hour free parking via a redemption 
scheme.  
10. 
The St Kilda Renaissance Supa IGA and the associated liquor licence are 
currently owned by Nero Tadeo Nominees Pty Ltd (Nero Tadeo), controlled by 
Mr George Altman, who owns and runs two other supermarkets under the 
Renaissance Supa IGA brand in another suburb of Melbourne, Hawthorn.   
Other supermarket retailers 
Coles 
11. 
Coles is a leading food, liquor and convenience retailer. Coles is owned by 
Wesfarmers Limited, an Australian listed public company with diverse business 
operations in the retail, resources, insurance, chemicals, energy, fertilisers and 
industrial sectors. 
ALDI Australia 
12. 
ALDI is a privately-owned global supermarket operator that entered Australia in 
2001. It has over 300 stores across NSW, the ACT, Queensland and Victoria. 
In February 2013, ALDI announced plans to expand its operations into South 
Australia and Western Australia. 
13. 
ALDI can be characterised as a limited assortment discounter. Limited 
assortment discounters emphasise private label products, do not provide the 
same depth of range as full-line supermarkets (such as Woolworths and Coles) 
and are generally smaller stores. Various brands of limited assortment 
discounters operate internationally but in Australia ALDI is the only such 
operator with a significant interstate network. 
Other participants 
Metcash Limited 
14. 
Metcash Limited (Metcash) is Australia’s largest grocery, fresh produce, liquor 
and hardware wholesaler and distributor to independently owned 
supermarkets. Metcash’s IGA Distribution business provides warehousing, 


Woolworths Limited - proposed acquisition of the St Kilda Renaissance Supa IGA 
Page 3 of 11 
distribution and marketing of grocery consumables to independent retailers 
operating under the IGA, Supa IGA and IGA Xpress supermarket brands and to 
supermarkets which do not carry the IGA brand such as FoodWorks, 
Supabarn, SupaExpress and Supabarn Express. There are over 1400 stores 
across Australia operating under the IGA brands (including supermarkets 
previously branded Franklins). Metcash is also a wholesaler to bottleshops 
under banner groups including IGA Liquor, Cellarbrations, Thirsty Camel and 
the Bottle-O, and to hardware retailers under the Mitre 10 and True Value 
banners.  
The transaction  
15. 
Woolworths proposes to acquire the business, business assets and liquor 
licence of the St Kilda Renaissance Supa IGA from Nero Tadeo, and to convert 
the existing retail space into a Woolworths branded supermarket and a BWS 
branded liquor outlet.   Woolworths is also involved in commercial negotiations 
with the landlord of the property.   
Market inquiries 
16. 
On 16 October 2013 the ACCC commenced market inquiries regarding the 
proposed acquisition. Submissions from interested parties closed on 
6 November 2013. The ACCC has received information from a range of 
interested parties. 
17. 
The ACCC is now calling for further information from interested parties to assist 
with its investigation as set out below. 
Competition Analysis 
18. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition may result in a 
substantial lessening of competition in the local retail supermarket market 
surrounding the target, which includes the suburb of St Kilda and neighbouring 
suburbs of St Kilda West, Middle Park and Windsor.  
19. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition would remove the only 
independent full-line supermarket and the closest competitor to Coles and 
Woolworths in the local market.  In addition, the St Kilda Renaissance Supa 
IGA has a differentiated promotion, product range and service offering which 
represents a competitive response to the offer of rival supermarket chains and 
provides additional choice to consumers. The proposed acquisition would 
replace this differentiated offer with the offer of Woolworths, which is already 
present in the local market. Given the market is characterised by high barriers 
to entry, new entry at a sufficient scale to replace the lost competitive tension is 
unlikely. 
Future with and without the proposed acquisition  
20. 
In assessing a proposed acquisition pursuant to section 50 of the Competition 
and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth) (the Act), the ACCC considers the effects of the 
acquisition by comparing the likely future competitive environment if the 
acquisition proceeds (the ‘with’ position) to the likely future competitive 
environment if the acquisition does not proceed (the likely ‘without’ position) to 


Woolworths Limited - proposed acquisition of the St Kilda Renaissance Supa IGA 
Page 4 of 11 
determine whether the acquisition is likely to substantially lessen competition in 
any relevant market. 
21. 
In this case, the target is a profitable business and is therefore likely to 
continue operating as an independent supermarket, at least for the next three 
years, absent the proposed acquisition. 
22. 
The ACCC notes that the end date for the lease agreement in respect of the 
property where the St Kilda Renaissance Supa IGA is situated is in February 
2017.  The ACCC is considering the possibility that without the proposed 
acquisition, at the expiry of its lease, Nero Tadeo would vacate the premises 
and the target supermarket would exit the market.  The ACCC is also 
considering whether any other parties are likely to be interested in acquiring the 
target supermarket.  The ACCC has not yet made a final assessment on the 
likelihood that the St Kilda Renaissance Supa IGA will exit the market in 2017. 
However, in merger reviews the ACCC primarily considers the competitive 
effects of acquisitions in the foreseeable future.  
23. 
As such, the ACCC currently considers that the appropriate ‘without’ position is 
a continuation of the status quo.  However, the potential closure of the St Kilda 
Renaissance Supa IGA supermarket in the longer term is relevant to the extent 
that it may affect the strategic direction, incentives or competitiveness of the 
business in the foreseeable future.    
The ACCC invites comments from interested parties on the likely future without the 
acquisition. In particular you are invited to comment on: 
i. 
whether other potential acquirers of the target supermarket exist or are likely to 
emerge and the likely timeframes; and 
ii. 
the extent to which the St Kilda Renaissance Supa IGA is likely to compete 
vigorously in the future without the proposed acquisition, and for what length of 
time.  
Market definition  
24. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the competitive effects of the proposed 
acquisition should be assessed in the context of the following markets:  
a. 
a local retail supermarket market surrounding the target, which includes the 
suburb of St Kilda and neighbouring suburbs of St Kilda West, Middle Park 
and Windsor; 
b. 
a state-wide retail supermarket market; and 
c. 
state-wide wholesale procurement and supply markets. 
25. 
The ACCC also considered the acquisition in relation to retail liquor markets 
but as no concerns have been identified these markets have not been 
considered further. The liquor outlets in the local market in which the target 
operates face competition for liquor sales from a range of Coles, Woolworths 
and independent bottleshops and supermarkets and therefore the effect from 
the proposed acquisition is unlikely to be substantial.  


Woolworths Limited - proposed acquisition of the St Kilda Renaissance Supa IGA 
Page 5 of 11 
Retail markets 
26. 
The ACCC considers that in retail markets involving chains and/or buying 
groups, competition may occur at both the national or state level and at the 
local geographic level. While all retailers compete to attract customers from 
other similar retailers located in the same local area, large chains/brands also 
compete through elements of their retail offers that are standardised across all 
stores within a broader area. 
Local retail supermarket market 
27. 
When assessing local retail markets, the ACCC aims to identify the competitive 
constraints on the store level retail offers of the target store and other nearby 
stores operated by the acquiring firm.   
28. 
Market inquiries to date have indicated that shoppers are most likely to switch 
readily between the target supermarket and other supermarkets in the suburbs 
of St Kilda, St Kilda West, Middle Park and Windsor for the same shopping 
trips.  Therefore, the ACCC has considered the proposed acquisition in the 
context of a local retail supermarket market encompassing these suburbs.  
Local retail supermarket market: geographic dimension 
29. 
The Renaissance Supa IGA is located in St Kilda, which is a bayside suburb of 
Melbourne, located approximately 6 km south of the CBD. The St Kilda suburb 
is separated from St Kilda East, Balaclava and Windsor by the Nepean 
Highway.  Immediately north and west of St Kilda are the suburbs of St Kilda 
West and Middle Park, as well as a large recreational space - Albert Park and 
Albert Park Lake.  To the south of St Kilda are the suburbs of Elwood and 
Ripponlea.   
30. 
The location of the target supermarket is shown on the following map. 
Figure 1: 
Map of area surrounding the target site 
 
Tram 96
Tram 16


Woolworths Limited - proposed acquisition of the St Kilda Renaissance Supa IGA 
Page 6 of 11 
 
31. 
The ACCC has taken account of submissions received in market inquiries as to 
the likely dimensions of the local market. The ACCC has also considered the 
catalogue distribution areas of the target supermarket and other independent 
supermarkets in the area, and evidence of existing shopping patterns and the 
likely travel patterns of customers who currently shop at the St Kilda 
Renaissance Supa IGA.  
32. 
The ACCC has also considered straight line distances between supermarkets, 
public transport routes, and both walk and drive time analysis.  
33. 
St Kilda is a densely populated suburb and is also a destination suburb for 
residents of Victoria and tourists due to its many iconic attractions, including 
Luna Park, the Astor Theatre, the National Theatre, numerous vibrant cafes, 
restaurants and pubs, the popular beach and the shopping strips and markets. 
For these reasons, traffic can get busy and congested, particularly on 
weekends, during summer and cultural and public events and holidays. In 
addition, St Kilda is easily accessible by public transport, and there is a low 
level of car ownership per household relative to the average in Victoria1. Due to 
these factors, the ACCC is of the preliminary view that the geographic market 
is likely to be narrow, as some shoppers are more likely to walk or take public 
transport to the supermarket rather than drive.  This is particularly likely to be 
the case for shoppers who purchase smaller basket sizes, such as top-up 
shoppers and small households.  The prominence of small households is 
another distinctive feature of the St Kilda area.    
34. 
The ACCC examined the catalogue distribution areas of the St Kilda 
Renaissance Supa IGA and found that catalogues were only distributed to 
households located within 2kms of the supermarket.  The ACCC also found 
that catalogues were primarily distributed to households that were either 
located a short walking distance from the supermarket, or along the tram routes 
16 and 96, which are the key public transport routes to St Kilda from Melbourne 
CBD.  
35. 
Having regard to  the considerations above, the ACCC’s preliminary view is 
that supermarkets within the suburbs of St Kilda, St Kilda West, Middle Park 
and Windsor are likely to provide the closest substitutes for the target.  
Customers of the target supermarket are likely to have easy access to 
supermarkets in these suburbs, as they are each within 3km, a short tram ride 
or 5 minutes’ drive of the St Kilda Renaissance Supa IGA.  
Local retail supermarket market: product dimension 
36. 
The ACCC considered the extent to which the following types of supermarket 
and non-supermarket retailers are substitutes for a supermarket at the target 
site, and therefore whether they should be considered part of the relevant 
market: 
 full-line supermarkets, such as those typical of the major supermarket chains, 
which retail a full range of goods including packaged groceries, fresh meat, 
bakery and deli products, fresh fruit and vegetables, and frozen foods. 
                                                 
 
1 The ABS census data from the 2011 census indicates that 25% of private dwellings in St Kilda 
do not own a motor vehicle (compared to 8% of private dwellings in Victoria).  


Woolworths Limited - proposed acquisition of the St Kilda Renaissance Supa IGA 
Page 7 of 11 
 convenience oriented supermarkets, which are smaller, retail a limited range 
of products, and are generally used by consumers as a top-up supermarket; 
 limited assortment discounters (i.e. ALDI); 
 specialist food retailers such as butchers, bakers and greengrocers; and 
 ‘markets’, including the South Melbourne market and Prahran market, which 
bring together a number of specialist food retailers, and retailers of other 
products.   
37. 
Market participants commented that supermarkets offer customers 
convenience by providing them with the ability to purchase grocery items 
across multiple categories in one transaction. In this regard, they can be 
distinguished from specialist retailers, including those operating in close 
proximity to each other within a ‘market’. For this reason, the ACCC’s 
preliminary view is that specialist retailers are not sufficiently close substitutes 
to supermarkets to be included in the relevant market. In addition, it was 
considered that due to their limited operating hours2, the South Melbourne and 
Prahran markets are unlikely to be close substitutes for many of the shopping 
trips made to supermarkets.   
38. 
Further, not all supermarkets are equally close substitutes for each other. The 
ACCC considers that the closest constraint on a supermarket at the target site 
would be likely to come from other full-line supermarkets in the local area, 
rather than from limited assortment discounters and convenience oriented 
supermarkets. The ACCC will comment on the relative constraint imposed by 
these different types of supermarkets in the competition analysis below. 
39. 
Consistent with its findings in previous matters, the ACCC’s preliminary view is 
that the product dimension of the relevant market is the retail supermarket 
market. 
State-wide retail supermarket market 
40. 
In addition to competition in the local retail market, the ACCC also considers 
competition in a broader retail market which provides competitive constraint on 
aspects of the Woolworths’ retail offer that are standardised across multiple 
local markets.   
41. 
Woolworths currently standardises elements of its retail offer (such as state-
wide marketing campaigns and pricing on most products) across all stores in 
Victoria. This standardisation is a matter of policy that can be changed in 
response to competitive conditions. 
42. 
The ACCC therefore considers that the relevant geographic market in which to 
consider broader aspects of supermarket competition is Victoria-wide. As 
discussed above for local retail markets, the product dimension for the state-
wide retail market is also the retail supermarket market.  
                                                 
 
2 South Melbourne market is open on Wednesday, Saturday and Sunday from 8am to 4pm and 
on Friday from 8am to 5pm.  Prahran market is open on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday from 
7am to 5pm, on Friday from 7am to 6pm and on Sunday from 10am to 3pm. 


Woolworths Limited - proposed acquisition of the St Kilda Renaissance Supa IGA 
Page 8 of 11 
Wholesale procurement and supply markets 
43. 
Consistent with its consideration of previous supermarket acquisitions, the 
ACCC has also considered the proposed acquisition in the context of state-
wide markets for the wholesale procurement and supply of products sold in 
supermarkets. 
The ACCC invites comments from interested parties on its proposed definition of the 
relevant markets. In particular you may wish to comment on: 
i. 
the extent to which customers view supermarkets in St Kilda, St Kilda West, Middle 
Park, Windsor and further afield as close substitutes for the target; 
ii. the distances and types of retailers/stores that St Kilda Renaissance Supa IGA 
shoppers are likely to switch to if the target supermarket were to increase prices or 
reduce service quality; and 
iii. what factors influence the distance that customers in this region are willing to travel 
to do their grocery shopping. 
Statement of issues 
44. 
For the purposes of this Statement of Issues, the issues in this matter are 
divided into two categories, ‘issues that may raise concerns’, and ‘issues 
unlikely to raise concerns’. 
Issues that may raise concerns 
Market concentration 
45. 
The local market posited above includes: 
a. the target; 
b. one Woolworths supermarket at the Acland Street shopping precinct in 
St Kilda; 
c. one Coles supermarket at the Acland Street shopping precinct in St 
Kilda; 
d. one Aldi supermarket, at 135 Inkerman Street, St Kilda; 
e. two smaller format independent supermarkets in nearby local shopping 
strips (Foodworks in Windsor and IGA in Middle Park). 
46. 
While Coles and Woolworths are likely to be each other’s closest competitors, 
market inquiries indicate that the target supermarket is the only other full-line 
supermarket in the local market.  This means that it is the only option, other 
than Coles and Woolworths, for shoppers in the local market for a full weekly 
shop.  
47. 
While the ACCC considers that ALDI may provide price competition, as a 
limited assortment discounter, it does not provide the same depth of range as a 
full-line supermarket.  Similarly, market inquiries revealed that convenience-
oriented supermarkets in St Kilda and the surrounding areas are substantially 
smaller than the St Kilda Renaissance Supa IGA and do not offer the full range 
of products available at full-line supermarkets. Therefore, market participants 


Woolworths Limited - proposed acquisition of the St Kilda Renaissance Supa IGA 
Page 9 of 11 
considered these smaller supermarkets to be weaker constraints on a full-line 
supermarket than other full-line supermarkets.   
Existing competitive behaviour of the St Kilda Renaissance Supa IGA 
48. 
Market inquiries have indicated that the Renaissance Supa IGA in St Kilda 
competes with other supermarkets in the local market by providing a price and 
non-price offering that is unique to the local market. Rather than seeking to 
match its competitors’ offerings, it provides a differentiated offer. 
49. 
In particular, the St Kilda Renaissance Supa IGA is the only full-line 
independent supermarket in the local market. Full-line supermarkets offer a 
wide range of supermarket products including groceries, deli and fresh produce 
and in most cases will offer multiple brands of common products. They are 
distinct from smaller format independent supermarkets (such as those listed in 
paragraph 45.e above). They can also be distinguished from the competitive 
offer of ALDI, with its more focused product range, smaller store size and 
emphasis on private label brands.  
50. 
Market participants have commented that as a full-line independent 
supermarket, the St Kilda Renaissance Supa IGA is suitable for a full weekly 
shop, and for ‘top-up’ shopping trips that, while smaller, may still include items 
across the full product range. These comments indicate the closest local 
competitors of the St Kilda Renaissance Supa IGA are the nearby Coles and 
Woolworths supermarkets.  
51. 
As an independent full-line supermarket, the St Kilda Renaissance Supa IGA 
differentiates its offer in terms of price, promotions, product range and service. 
52. 
The target supermarket has a price promotional cycle through the Supa IGA 
brand that is unique in the local market. All Supa IGA supermarkets within 
Victoria provide standard extensive promotions through a weekly catalogue.  
The promotional offers are on at different times and on different products to 
Coles and Woolworths, allowing shoppers to benefit from additional 
promotions. The proposed acquisition would remove the Supa IGA promotional 
cycle from the local market.  While some of the promotional items are also 
provided in smaller format IGAs, the Supa IGA promotional cycle includes a 
much more significant number (and range) of products relative to the IGA 
promotional cycle. Further, while there may be some overlap on particular 
products between the Supa IGA promotions and those of other retailers in the 
local market, the overall package of promotions offered by Supa IGA is an 
element of the target’s competitive offer that is differentiated from its local 
rivals. The target is the only Supa IGA in the suburbs to the south east of 
Melbourne CBD (the closest Supa IGA is in Hawthorn which is 8kms from the 
target), so even if the local market were broader than the ACCC has defined, 
this concern would remain relevant. 
53. 
The target’s independent offer is differentiated from its competitors in the local 
market. Market participants have expressed concern that the proposed 
acquisition would result in the loss from the local market of that differentiated 
retail offer, particularly its unique product offering.  The ACCC understands that 
the St Kilda Renaissance IGA’s product range includes a variety of products 
that are not stocked by the major supermarket chains, including delicatessen 
and bakery goods, a wide range of fresh fruit and vegetables, specialty 
gourmet and health-food products, imported and branded products. 


Woolworths Limited - proposed acquisition of the St Kilda Renaissance Supa IGA 
Page 10 of 11 
54. 
In addition, market inquiries have indicated that there is a general perception of 
high quality and personal service at the target supermarket and that it is valued 
by shoppers for being distinct from the standardised offerings available from 
major supermarket chains.  
55. 
The ACCC notes that customers in the local market already have access to a 
Woolworths branded supermarket at St Kilda (as well as others in nearby 
suburbs of Balaclava, Prahran and South Melbourne).  Therefore, these 
customers are already benefitting from the Woolworths product range and 
promotional cycles in the local market.   
Barriers to entry 
56. 
As the ACCC has noted in previous reviews, barriers to entry to supermarket 
retailing are generally high. There are considerable lead times and sunk costs 
involved in establishing a new supermarket, which can pose a particular barrier 
when the market is already served by multiple existing supermarkets 
(particularly if they include a scaled incumbent). In addition, due the fact that St 
Kilda is a developed area, it would be difficult to find appropriate sites for the 
establishment of a full-line supermarket or the space to expand an existing 
smaller format supermarket to a full-line scale.   
57. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that entry of an independent full-line 
supermarket (or expansion by an existing independent operator) to replace the 
offering of the St Kilda Renaissance Supa IGA is unlikely in the foreseeable 
future. 
Conclusion  
58. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view, therefore, is that the proposed acquisition would 
replace the differentiated offer of the target with the standardised offer of 
Woolworths, which is already available in the local market. In contrast, in the 
absence of the proposed acquisition, it is likely that an independent full line 
supermarket will continue at the site of the current Renaissance Supa IGA in St 
Kilda, for at least the next three years.  The entry of an independent full-line 
supermarket, or expansion by an existing independent operator, to replace the 
offering of the target supermarket is unlikely in the foreseeable future. 
The ACCC invites comments from interested parties on the following matters: 
i. 
the extent to which the St Kilda Renaissance Supa IGA contributes a retail offering 
that is differentiated from Woolworths, Coles, ALDI and other independent 
supermarkets in the local market;  
ii. whether the differentiated features of the St Kilda Renaissance Supa IGA are more 
or less important than features that will remain regardless of the proposed 
acquisition, such as location; 
iii. the extent to which customers value the price, promotions, service and product 
offering of the St Kilda Renaissance Supa IGA, and make decisions about where 
to shop on the basis of those attributes;  
iv. details about the product range of the St Kilda Renaissance Supa IGA, including 
the extensiveness of its product range and the extent to which the St Kilda 
Renaissance Supa IGA can be classified as a full-line supermarket; and 


Woolworths Limited - proposed acquisition of the St Kilda Renaissance Supa IGA 
Page 11 of 11 
v. the likelihood of new entry of an independent full-line supermarket in the local 
market should the proposed acquisition proceed. 
Issues unlikely to raise concerns 
State-wide retail supermarket market 
59. 
The ACCC considers that the proposed acquisition would be unlikely to pose 
concerns in the state-wide retail supermarket market as the transfer of a single 
supermarket would result in only a very small increase in state wide market 
share for Woolworths. Further, it would not result in a reduction in the number 
of operators and retail chains competing with Woolworths on a state-wide level. 
It would therefore not be likely to have a substantial impact on competition in 
the state-wide market. 
Wholesale procurement and supply markets for products sold in supermarkets 
60. 
Market inquiries have not suggested that the proposed acquisition could have 
an impact on the wholesale supply market in Victoria. The ACCC notes the 
sale of a single supermarket is unlikely to be sufficient to have a substantial 
effect on the viability of wholesale operations, which need to achieve a large 
scale to be efficient. The ACCC does not consider the volume of a single 
supermarket is likely to have a significant effect on competition in the wholesale 
procurement market. 
ACCC's future steps 
61. 
The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers market 
responses invited by this Statement of Issues. 
62. 
The ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on each of the 
issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that may be 
relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. 
63. 
Submissions are to be received by the ACCC no later than 17 January 2014. 
The ACCC will consider the submissions received from the market and the 
merger parties in light of the issues identified above and will, in conjunction with 
information and submissions already provided by the parties, come to a final 
view in light of the issues raised above. 
64. 
The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 6 February 2014. 
However the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Merger Review 
Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose of 
explaining the ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's public 
announcement. 
