 
 
 
25 March 2010 
 
Statement of Issues — BHP Billiton Limited and Rio 
Tinto Limited — proposed iron ore production joint 
venture in Western Australia  
1. 
Outlined below is the Statement of Issues released by the Australian Competition 
and Consumer Commission (ACCC) in relation to the proposed iron ore 
production joint venture in Western Australia (proposed JV) between BHP 
Billiton Limited and Rio Tinto Limited.  
2. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about the 
ACCC’s assessment, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well 
as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
3. 
In line with the ACCC’s Merger Review Process Guidelines (available on the 
ACCC’s website at www.accc.gov.au) the ACCC has established a secondary 
timeline for further consideration of the issues. The ACCC anticipates completing 
further market inquiries by 14 April 2010 and anticipates making a final decision 
by 28 April 2010. However, the anticipated timeline can change in line with the 
Merger Review Process Guidelines. To keep abreast of possible changes in 
relation to timing and to find relevant documents, interested parties should visit 
the Mergers Register on the ACCC’s website at 
www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
4. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the joint venture parties and other interested parties with the basis for making 
further submissions should they consider it necessary. 
The parties 
5. 
BHP Billiton Limited (BHPB) is the world’s largest diversified resources 
company. BHPB is a dual listed company comprising BHP Billiton plc (listed on 
the London Stock Exchange (LSE)) and BHP Billiton Limited (listed on the 


BHP Billiton Limited and Rio Tinto Limited – proposed iron ore production joint venture in Western Australia 
 
2
Australian Securities Exchange (ASX)).1 Both companies share a single board of 
directors and management team.  
6. 
Rio Tinto Limited (Rio Tinto) is a diversified mining group with global interests 
and operations. Rio Tinto is a dual listed company comprising Rio Tinto plc 
(listed on the LSE) and Rio Tinto Limited (listed on the ASX). 
The transaction 
7. 
On 5 December 2009, BHPB and Rio Tinto signed an agreement to combine their 
iron ore assets located in Western Australia (WA) in an unincorporated JV, 
subject to regulatory approvals. Under the terms of the proposed JV, each party is 
entitled to acquire 50% of the iron ore produced at approximately the cost of 
production. Each party is to retain its own independent iron ore marketing 
function. 
8. 
The iron ore assets captured by the proposed JV include assets arising from the 
parties’ production operations as well as shipping terminals, port facilities and 
rail infrastructure. The overlap between the two parties is depicted in figure 1. 
Figure 1 
BHPB and Rio Tinto’s iron ore mining operations in the 
Pilbara 
Source: JV parties. 
                                               
1 BHP Billiton plc also has American Depository Receipts listed on the New York Stock Exchange and 
has a secondary listing on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange. 


BHP Billiton Limited and Rio Tinto Limited – proposed iron ore production joint venture in Western Australia 
 
3
9. 
While the proposed JV does not extend to the parties’ international iron ore 
production assets, the majority of the parties’ iron ore assets are located in the 
Pilbara region of WA. 
10. 
The parties have submitted that the commercial rationale for the proposed JV is 
to bring more low cost iron ore to market, more efficiently. The parties submit 
that this objective will be achieved by realising production, resource and 
development synergies estimated to have a net present value in excess of US$10 
billion. 
Market inquiries 
11. 
On 7 December 2009, the ACCC commenced market inquiries regarding the 
proposed JV.  
12. 
Responses were received from, and discussions were held with, a range of market 
participants, including suppliers and customers of iron ore, industry 
organisations, government departments and overseas competition regulators. 
Industry background 
13. 
Iron ore is a globally traded commodity used almost exclusively in the 
manufacture of steel. Steel mills generally use a mix of the following three forms 
of iron ore: 
 lump –  a ‘direct shipping’ form, between five and 30 mm in diameter; 
 fines –  a ‘direct shipping’ form, less than five mm in diameter; and  
 pellet – a processed form, generally between 16 and 20 mm in diameter. 
14. 
Iron ore lump may be fed directly into a steel-making blast furnace without 
further processing. However, smaller iron ore particles — fines and super fines2 
— tend to clog blast furnaces and must be agglomerated before being fed into a 
blast furnace. The two most common methods of agglomeration are sintering, 
which produces an artificial lump called ‘sinter,’ and pelletising.  
15. 
World production of iron ore was estimated to be approximately 1,930 million 
tonnes (Mt) in 2009. Production has decreased by 12.7%, compared with 2008 
levels, which has been attributed to the global financial crisis (GFC). 
16. 
Of global seaborne iron ore, the majority is exported from Brazil and Australia to 
China and East Asia.  
                                               
2 Another type of iron ore is ‘super fines’ which is mainly produced in China for Chinese steel mills. 
Super fines are generally less than one mm in diameter and need to be processed (agglomerated and 
concentrated) prior to being used in a blast furnace. 


BHP Billiton Limited and Rio Tinto Limited – proposed iron ore production joint venture in Western Australia 
 
4
17. 
The majority of iron ore is supplied under long-term contracts. Steel mills and 
iron ore suppliers typically prefer long-term contracts for security of supply and 
investment certainty.  
18. 
Traditionally, iron ore supplied under long-term contracts was priced according 
to global benchmark prices. Global benchmark prices for each form of iron ore 
are determined by annual negotiations between the main global suppliers and the 
main steel mills and generally reflect a consensus as to the balance between 
supply and demand over the coming year. The first price settlement has 
traditionally flowed through to all iron ore supplied under contracts.  
19. 
Increasingly, iron ore supplied under long-term contracts is priced according to 
an index pricing mechanism. Index prices tend to be calculated with reference to 
a certain number of spot market transactions for a particular type of iron ore. 
Currently, there are three indices published on a regular basis — Platts Daily Iron 
Ore Report, the Steel Index published by Steel Business Briefing and the Metal 
Bulletin Iron Ore Index. 
20. 
The main global suppliers of iron ore fines are BHPB, Rio Tinto and the 
Brazilian supplier —Vale S.A. (Vale). BHPB and Rio Tinto are the main global 
suppliers of iron ore lump. 
21. 
Other global suppliers include the Australian producer Fortescue Metal Group 
(FMG), the South African/Brazilian producer Anglo American, and the Brazilian 
producer CSN. 
22. 
While the majority of iron ore is exported out of Australia, iron ore is also 
supplied to customers in Australia at prices that are linked to global iron ore 
prices. Effects on global iron ore prices flow through to the price paid by 
Australian steel mills. Furthermore, since iron ore is a significant input into the 
production of steel, the price of iron ore also has an impact on the price of steel 
and other steel-based products consumed in Australia.  
23. 
In Australia, the only two significant consumers of iron ore are OneSteel and 
BlueScope Steel. OneSteel is vertically integrated into iron ore supply, with its 
own mine in the South Middleback Ranges of South Australia. BlueScope Steel 
is not vertically integrated and sources iron ore from a range of suppliers, 
including BHPB. 
The 2008 review 
24. 
The ACCC reviewed the proposed acquisition of Rio Tinto by BHPB in 2008 
(the 2008 review). The ACCC commenced the 2008 review on 6 June 2008 and 
announced its decision to not oppose the transaction on 1 October 2008. 
Following that decision, BHPB withdrew its proposal to acquire Rio Tinto. 
25. 
The ACCC’s primary focus in the 2008 review was whether the proposed merger 
was likely to result in a substantial lessening of competition in a market in 
Australia. In assessing this question, the ACCC considered, among other things, 
BlueScope Steel’s position as the only significant customer of iron ore in 


BHP Billiton Limited and Rio Tinto Limited – proposed iron ore production joint venture in Western Australia 
 
5
Australia. The ACCC also considered whether there would be effective 
competitive constraints on the merged firm post-acquisition.  
26. 
During the course of the 2008 review, BlueScope Steel entered into a 10 year 
contract with BHPB for the supply of iron ore lump and iron ore fines.3 It noted, 
in its press release in September 2008, that the contract was expected to ‘maintain 
BlueScope Steel’s competitive position in the industry’. It did not indicate any 
concerns to the ACCC about the proposed acquisition. 
27. 
In relation to the competitive constraints on the merged firm post-acquisition, the 
ACCC considered that a number of independent capacity expansion projects 
would be likely to constrain any attempt by the merged firm to withhold supply 
from iron ore markets by making it unprofitable to do so. The ACCC was also of 
the view that the merged firm would face uncertainty in terms of identifying 
opportunities to withhold supply and in terms of identifying its competitors’ 
likely responses. 
28. 
Accordingly, the ACCC concluded that there was insufficient evidence available 
to support a finding that the proposed acquisition was likely to substantially 
lessen competition in Australian iron ore markets. 
The present review 
29. 
In the present review, the ACCC has received new information suggesting that 
the competitive constraints identified in 2008 by the ACCC have not come online 
as anticipated. 
30. 
Indeed, a number of existing suppliers have delayed, cancelled or reduced their 
capacity expansion plans, and some potential suppliers have delayed, cancelled or 
reduced their entry plans. It is likely that a number of these changes are the result 
of the various effects of the GFC. 
31. 
Also during the GFC, both Rio Tinto and Vale cut production substantially. In 
contrast, BHPB maintained production and iron ore sales. While the production 
cuts might reflect the large drop in demand, they might also reflect strategic 
behaviour with the purpose of limiting the decline in iron ore prices. If the ACCC 
were to find evidence and information that the GFC-related production cuts were 
made by Rio Tinto and Vale for the purposes of limiting the decline in prices, it 
would indicate that:  
 there are opportunities for large, low cost iron ore producers to withhold 
supply; and 
 the responses of competitors do not effectively constrain this conduct. 
32. 
The combination of these developments exposes Australian steel mills to 
potential price increases if the proposed JV were to proceed. Indeed, BlueScope 
                                               
3 BlueScope Steel Media Release, BlueScope Steel Concludes Major Iron Ore Contract, 18 September 
2008. 


BHP Billiton Limited and Rio Tinto Limited – proposed iron ore production joint venture in Western Australia 
 
6
Steel, the only significant Australian customer of the proposed JV, has recently 
stated publicly that it has concerns about the proposed JV.4  
33. 
The new information outlined above has given the ACCC cause to examine the 
ability and incentive of the proposed JV to profitably withhold supply in the 
future.  
 Areas of overlap and market definition 
34. 
The ACCC has no information to suggest that the market definitions adopted in 
its review of the proposed acquisition in 2008 should be altered. The ACCC is 
therefore considering the impact of the proposed JV in the markets for:  
 the global seaborne supply of iron ore lump;  
 the global seaborne supply of iron ore fines;  
 the national (Australian) supply of iron ore lump;  
 the national (Australian) supply of iron ore fines; 
 the supply of rail services in the Pilbara, WA; 
 the supply of port services in the Pilbara, WA; 
 the acquisition of iron ore tenements in the Pilbara, WA; and 
 the acquisition of iron ore mining inputs in the Pilbara, WA.  
Statement of issues 
35. 
For the purposes of this Statement of Issues, the issues in this matter are divided 
into two categories, ‘issues that may raise concerns’ and ‘issues unlikely to raise 
concerns.’ 
Issues that may raise concerns 
Supply of iron ore lump and iron ore fines 
 
36. 
The ACCC’s preliminary market inquiries indicate that the proposed JV may 
raise competition concerns in relation to the global seaborne and the national 
(Australian) markets for the supply of iron ore lump and iron ore fines.  
37. 
In these markets, the proposed JV would aggregate the production activities of 
two major suppliers of iron ore lump and iron ore fines. The JV would become 
the largest producer in these markets.  
                                               
4 Matt Chambers, BlueScope lashes BHP-Rio link, The Australian, 16 February 2010, p. 21. 


BHP Billiton Limited and Rio Tinto Limited – proposed iron ore production joint venture in Western Australia 
 
7
38. 
Post-JV, Vale would have the next highest share of production in the supply of 
fines on a global basis, while FMG would be the next largest producer of fines on 
a national basis. 
39. 
In relation to the supply of lump, Indian producers would have the next largest 
share on a global basis. There are no other Australian producers of lump. 
40. 
Currently, there is a strong degree of competitive rivalry between BHPB and Rio 
Tinto in each of the relevant markets. The two suppliers have a number of 
similarities—in terms of iron ore quality, infrastructure, cost structure and 
distance to customers—and compete effectively on the basis of: 
 volume — BHPB and Rio Tinto compete to be first to market with iron ore 
through production and capacity expansions; 
 price — BHPB and Rio Tinto compete during benchmark price negotiations, 
in attracting customers to sign up to differing price mechanisms under 
long-term contracts, as well as in negotiating spot market transactions with 
customers; and 
 quality — BHPB and Rio Tinto compete to provide differentiated iron ore 
products whose quality is suitable and attractive to steelmakers. 
41. 
The ACCC considers that barriers to entry and expansion in the relevant markets 
are significant. Entry involves: 
 long lead times — the development of a new ‘greenfield’ mine would take 10 
to 15 years; and 
 significant sunk capital costs — the costs associated with each stage of a 
project is substantial: exploration, mine development and the establishment of 
associated power, rail and port infrastructure.5  
42. 
During market inquiries, interested parties expressed concerns and provided 
evidence to illustrate that, post-JV, competition between BHPB and Rio Tinto 
with respect to volumes, price and quality will be substantially reduced. Market 
participants noted that separate marketing functions would not ensure that 
effective competition on any level remained between BHPB and Rio Tinto 
post-JV. 
43. 
The cuts in production by some of the large, low cost suppliers of iron ore during 
the GFC was raised by several market participants as being indicative of these 
suppliers’ existing ability and incentive to profitably withhold supply. These 
market participants argue that the proposed JV would increase the ability and 
incentive for these suppliers to run a successful withholding strategy in the future. 
                                               
5 The ACCC notes that there is potential for a rail access regime for rail haulage and/or track access to be 
established in the future. The ACCC is aware of the matters currently being heard by the Australian 
Competition Tribunal. If some form of rail access regime is established, it may lower barriers to entry 
and expansion for Fortescue Metal Group and other junior miners in the Pilbara.  


BHP Billiton Limited and Rio Tinto Limited – proposed iron ore production joint venture in Western Australia 
 
8
44. 
Market participants were also concerned that, post-JV, the JV entity and Vale are 
more likely to tacitly collude by coordinating their decisions relating to price, 
volume and/or quality. 
45. 
Some market participants also argued that the JV will be able to more profitably 
manipulate the supply/demand balance under an index pricing system compared 
with a benchmark pricing system. That is, the JV can more profitably withhold 
production as the feedback in terms of increased prices is more immediate under 
the index pricing system. 
46. 
The GFC may have reduced the likelihood of potential and existing suppliers 
overcoming barriers to entry and expansion in the relevant markets. To date, the 
ACCC has seen some information that a number of prospective iron ore projects 
have been delayed or cancelled. At this stage, the nature and extent of these 
delays and cancellations are uncertain.  
47. 
Indeed, the ACCC has also seen some contradictory information that some iron 
ore projects are proceeding as intended, and notes some new projects that have 
recently been announced. The ACCC will use the next phase of its inquiries to 
assess the possibility that these projects may be capable of constraining the JV 
from profitably withholding supply in the short and long term. 
48. 
The ACCC understands from information it has received from the market that 
steel mills, particularly Chinese steel mills, have recently taken steps to facilitate 
the introduction and expansion of new independent sources of supply by signing 
off-take agreements and investing in iron ore mines. Market inquiries also 
indicated that further investments by steel mills in related infrastructure had been 
contemplated.  
49. 
To the extent that the proposed JV would enable BHPB and Rio Tinto to 
withhold supply in global seaborne iron ore markets, it would have the effect of 
increasing the prices paid by Australian steel mills, and consumers of finished 
steel products.  
Areas under further investigation 
 
50. 
The ACCC requires further information from interested parties to determine 
whether the proposed JV is likely to result in a substantial lessening of 
competition in the global and the national (Australian) markets for the supply of 
iron ore lump and iron ore fines.  
51. 
A key area under investigation relates to the JV’s ability and incentive to 
unilaterally implement a successful withholding strategy in markets for the 
supply of iron ore lump and fines. The JV could withhold by decreasing current 
levels of production and/or delaying future capacity expansions.  
52. 
The ACCC is also considering whether there is increased potential for the 
proposed JV and Vale to coordinate their decisions on product volume or quality, 
post-transaction. 


BHP Billiton Limited and Rio Tinto Limited – proposed iron ore production joint venture in Western Australia 
 
9
53. 
In this regard, the ACCC is investigating whether the behaviour of the large, low 
cost suppliers during the GFC illustrates that these suppliers already have the 
ability and incentive to withhold supply profitably. The ACCC’s inquiries are 
therefore focused on whether the proposed JV would have the effect of increasing 
the ability and incentive to withhold supply in the short term or delay capacity 
expansions in the long term. 
54. 
The ACCC is also examining whether the developments since the ACCC’s 
merger review in 2008, described above, have altered the competitive dynamic in 
the relevant iron ore markets in a way that is neither insignificant nor transient.  
55. 
Accordingly, the ACCC is seeking information and evidence from market 
participants on the following issues: 
 whether there is evidence that the proposed JV will have an increased ability 
and incentive to withhold supply in the short term or delay capacity 
expansions in the long term; 
 whether the behaviour of some of the large, low cost suppliers during the 
GFC is indicative of these suppliers’ existing ability and incentive to withhold 
supply profitably and, if so, whether the proposed JV would increase this 
ability and incentive; 
 whether there is evidence that the JV entity and Vale have an increased ability 
and incentive to coordinate their supply decisions; 
 whether the GFC has reduced the likelihood that potential and existing 
suppliers can overcome barriers to entry and expansion; 
 the nature and extent of independent entry or capacity expansion projects that 
have either been delayed, cancelled or down-sized; 
 the nature and extent of independent entry or capacity expansion projects that 
will proceed as intended; and 
 whether the recent activity of Asian steel mills facilitating the introduction 
and expansion of new supply sources would effectively constrain the JV from 
employing a withholding strategy. 
Issues unlikely to raise concerns 
56. 
Based on market inquiries, the proposed JV appears unlikely to raise substantial 
competition concerns in relation to the issues set out below. Nonetheless, the 
ACCC will accept further submissions from interested parties on any of the 
following issues and will revisit them if it considers further consideration is 
warranted. 
Acquisition of iron ore tenements in the Pilbara, WA 
 
57. 
The ACCC considers that the proposed JV appears unlikely to raise competition 
concerns in relation to the acquisition of iron ore or rights to extract iron ore, 


BHP Billiton Limited and Rio Tinto Limited – proposed iron ore production joint venture in Western Australia 
 
10
from owners of tenements in the Pilbara, WA. Market inquiries indicated that 
such competition between BHPB and Rio Tinto appears to be limited.  
Supply of port services and supply of rail services in the Pilbara, WA 
 
58. 
The ACCC considers that the proposed acquisition appears unlikely to raise 
competition concerns in relation to the supply of iron ore rail services and the 
supply of port terminal services in the Pilbara, WA. Market inquiries indicated 
that such competition between BHPB and Rio Tinto has been limited to date, and 
is likely to remain so in the future without the proposed JV.  
ACCC’s future steps 
59. 
The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers market responses 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
60. 
The ACCC now seeks submissions from interested parties on each of the issues 
identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that may be relevant 
to the ACCC’s assessment of this matter. 
61. 
Submissions are to be received by the ACCC no later than 14 April 2010. The 
ACCC will consider the submissions received from the market and the parties in 
light of the issues identified above and will, in conjunction with information and 
submissions already provided by the parties, come to a final view as to the 
appropriate course of action to take to resolve any competition concerns that 
remain. 
62. 
The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 28 April 2010. 
However, the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Merger Review 
Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose of 
explaining the ACCC’s final view may be published following the ACCC’s 
public announcement. 
 
