Public Competition Assessment
7 March 2007
Santos Limited - proposed acquisition of Queensland Gas Company
Limited
Introduction
1.
On 20 February 2007, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission
(‘ACCC’) announced its decision to oppose the proposed acquisition of
Queensland Gas Company Limited (‘QGC’) by Santos Limited (‘Santos’)
(‘proposed acquisition’). The ACCC was of the view that the proposed
acquisition, in conjunction with the proposed undertakings, would be likely to
have the effect of substantially lessening competition in the market for production
and supply of wholesale gas in the southern interconnected region of Queensland
(including Brisbane, Gladstone and Mt Isa) and in the market for production and
supply of wholesale gas in the southern states of Australia in contravention of
section 50 of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (‘the Act’).
2.
The ACCC formed its view on the basis of the information provided by the
merger parties and information arising from its market inquiries. This Public
Competition Assessment outlines the basis on which the ACCC has reached its
decision on the proposed acquisition, subject to confidentiality considerations.
Public Competition Assessment
3.
To provide an enhanced level of transparency and procedural fairness in its
decision making process, the ACCC issues a Public Competition Assessment for
all transaction proposals where:
a merger is rejected;
a merger is subject to enforceable undertakings;
the merger parties seek such disclosure; or
a merger is approved but raises important issues that the ACCC considers
should be made public.
4.
This Public Competition Assessment has been issued because the ACCC decided
to oppose Santos’ proposed acquisition of QGC.


Santos Limited - proposed acquisition of Queensland Gas Company Limited
-2-
5.
By issuing Public Competition Assessments, the ACCC aims to provide the
market with a better understanding of the ACCC's analysis of various markets
and the associated merger and competition issues. It also alerts the market to the
circumstances where the ACCC’s assessment of the competition conditions in
particular markets is changing, or likely to change, because of developments.
6.
Each Public Competition Assessment is specific to the particular transaction
under review by the ACCC. While some transaction proposals may involve the
same or related markets, it should not be assumed that the analysis and decision
outlined in one Public Competition Assessment will be conclusive of the ACCC’s
view in respect of other transaction proposals, as each matter will be considered
on its own merits.
7.
Many of the ACCC’s decisions will involve consideration of both non-
confidential and confidential information provided by the merger parties and
market participants. In order to maintain the confidentiality of particular
information, Public Competition Assessments do not contain any confidential
information or its sources. While the ACCC aims to provide an appropriately
detailed explanation of the basis for the ACCC decision, where this is not
possible, maintaining confidentiality will be the ACCC's paramount concern, and
accordingly a Public Competition Assessment may not definitively explain all
issues and the ACCC’s analysis of such issues.
The parties
The acquirer: Santos Limited
8.
Santos is a major Australian oil and gas exploration and production company.
Santos is Australia’s largest domestic gas producer, supplying natural gas to all
mainland Australian states and territories, ethane to Sydney and oil, LNG and
liquids to domestic and international customers.
9.
Santos has an interest in a number of gas fields in Queensland, including:
–
The Denison trough
–
The Roma shelf
–
The Churchie Gas Field
–
The Cooper-Eromanga Basin.
–
The Scotia CSG field
–
The Fairview CSG field


Santos Limited - proposed acquisition of Queensland Gas Company Limited
-3-
The target: Queensland Gas Company Limited
10.
QGC is an explorer, producer and wholesaler of gas in southern Queensland.
QGC’s principle producing gas fields are located close to Wallumbilla in a region
known as the Undulla Nose in Queensland’s Surat Basin.
11.
QGC currently supplies the equivalent of 8 petajoules (‘PJ’) of gas per year from
its Berwyndale South Gasfield and is working to develop its Argyle and
Berwyndale Gasfield to supply its long term gas contracts. Each of these fields
are located in the Undulla Nose.
12.
QGC has certified ‘proven and probable’ reserves1 of at least 695PJ.
Other industry participants
13.
Origin Energy is a major natural gas producer in Australia. Origin Energy has
major production interests in the Cooper Basin and is Australia’s largest producer
of coal seam gas. Origin has interests in major gas fields in both the Bowen and
Surat Basins in Queensland.
The proposed transaction
14.
Santos made two proposals to acquire QGC. The first proposal, announced on
5 October 2006, was a 100% takeover offer (‘the 5 October offer’). The second
proposal, announced on 30 January 2007 (and subsequently amended on 7
February 2007), involved two steps. QGC would first create a new company
‘NewCo’ as a wholly-owned subsidiary of QGC and would transfer the assets,
liabilities and obligations not related to the ‘Undulla Nose’ to NewCo. NewCo
would then be de-merged from QGC and Santos would acquire QGC. Santos
would own 30% of NewCo.
15.
On 31 January 2007, the ACCC announced that in light of the proposal by Santos
to acquire QGC announced on 30 January 2007, the ACCC would not make a
decision on its consideration of the 5 October 2006 offer, and its consideration of
that offer ceased.
The 5 October 2006 proposal
16.
On 5 October 2006, Santos announced an offer to acquire all the shares in QGC.
1 Gas reserves are often referred to as 1P, 2P or 3P reserves. The ACCC understands these terms to
mean:
-
1P Reserves – Proven reserves – with a 90% probability that the actual amount of reserves able
to be recovered will be grater than or equal to the reserve estimate
-
2P Reserves – Proven + Probable reserves – with a 50% probability that the actual amount of
reserves able to be recovered will be greater than or equal to the reserve estimate
-
3P Reserves – Proven + Probable + Possible reserves – with a 10% probability that the actual
amount of reserves able to be recovered will be greater than or equal to the reserve estimate.


Santos Limited - proposed acquisition of Queensland Gas Company Limited
-4-
17.
On 30 January 2007, Santos announced that it would be letting the 5 October
2006 offer lapse and on 8 February 2007, Santos announced that the 5 October
2006 offer lapsed on 7 February 2007.
The 30 January 2007 proposal (amended on 7 February 2007)
18.
On 30 January 2007, Santos announced a new proposal to acquire QGC. This
new proposal involved the creation of a new ASX-listed entity, ‘NewCo’. On
7 February 2007, Santos advised of amendments to the 30 January 2007 proposal.
19.
The ACCC commenced market inquiries on the new proposal on 31 January
2007. It is this proposal that will be referred to as ‘the proposed acquisition’.
20.
Below is a summary of the proposal as announced on 30 January 2007 and
subsequently amended on 7 February 2007.
Santos (post acquisition)
21.
Under the proposed acquisition, Santos would acquire the assets, liabilities and
obligations of QGC that relate to the Undulla Nose acreage. This included nearly
all the current production reserves of QGC and the existing gas supply
agreements and commitments.
NewCo
22.
NewCo would have the assets, liabilities and obligations of QGC that relate to the
non-Undulla Nose acreage. The assets of NewCo would also include a
contractual right to develop gas reserves in the Undulla Nose in the ATP648P of
up to 100PJ and to sell and receive the proceeds of sale of those reserves to gas
buyers. NewCo will also have the right, but not the obligation to sell those
reserves to Santos.
23.
NewCo would be established with the same Board and Management team of the
existing QGC. Santos would have a total shareholding in NewCo to 30% of its
issued capital.
Further implementation details
24.
The new proposal included a number of arrangements between Santos and
NewCo, including:
–
Transitional services, assistance, records and information agreement for the
purpose of establishing NewCo’s operations independently from Santos as
soon as possible;
–
Pipeline consent agreement to enable NewCo to construct and operate a
pipeline connecting ATP621P to the Roma to Brisbane pipeline (refer to the
map below for the location of ATP621P);


Santos Limited - proposed acquisition of Queensland Gas Company Limited
-5-
–
Drilling Rig access agreement for the purpose of enabling NewCo to use
such drilling rigs that QGC owns or has a contractual right to use, including
associated personnel and services;
–
Pipeline and plant infrastructure access agreement for the purpose of
enabling NewCo to use spare capacity in upstream pipeline and plant
infrastructure owned by QGC;
–
Arrangements in relation to ATP648P (refer to the map below for the
location of ATP648P) which will enable NewCo to conduct operations there
to meet a reserves target of 100PJ of gas for sale to consumers, or at
NewCo’s election for possible sale to Santos at an agreed price.
–
Transportation and gas swap agreement providing for access to the Roma to
Brisbane pipeline and a gas swap agreement for north-west Queensland.
–
Interim funding agreement that will provide for Santos to make available
$million to QGC to assist it in meeting its financial commitments and
continuing with its capital expenditure program. Santos is also prepared to
make additional finance of up to $million available to QGC if it is deemed
appropriate to restructure certain of QGC’s existing debt finance
arrangements.


Santos Limited - proposed acquisition of Queensland Gas Company Limited
-6-
Source: Santos Limited, ‘Santos proposes new superior transaction with QGC’, 30 January 2007,
accessed at www.santos.com.au


Santos Limited - proposed acquisition of Queensland Gas Company Limited
-7-
Timing
25.
The following table outlines the timeline of key events in this matter.
Date
Event
05-Oct-2006
ACCC commenced public review under the Merger Review Process Guidelines.
16-Oct-2006
Market inquiries commenced.
26-Oct-2006
ACCC published a Statement of Issues outlining preliminary competition
concerns.
09-Nov-2006
Closing date for submissions from interested parties.
23-Nov-2006
ACCC requested further information from Santos. ACCC timeline suspended.
29-Nov-2006
Proposed date for announcement of ACCC’s findings delayed to allow
consultation on Statement of Issues.
7-Dec-2006
Proposed date for announcement of ACCC’s findings delayed pending further
information from Santos.
4-Jan-2007
ACCC received further information from Santos. ACCC timeline recommenced.
30-Jan-2007
Santos announced a new takeover proposal for QGC and that it will let the
previous takeover proposal lapse.
31-Jan-2007
Proposed date for announcement of ACCC’s findings. In light of Santos’ new
proposal the ACCC announced that it would not be making a formal decision on
the previous takeover proposal. ACCC establishes a timeline for market inquiries
in relation to Santos’ new proposal.
07-Feb-2007
Santos provided amendments to the 30 January 2007 takeover proposal.
13-Feb-2007
Closing date for submissions from interested parties in relation to the new
proposal.
20-Feb-2007
ACCC announced its decision to oppose the proposed acquisition.
Market inquiries
26.
The ACCC conducted market inquiries with a range of industry participants,
including competitors, potential competitors, customers, industry bodies, and
other interested parties. Submissions were sought in relation to the substantive
competition issues and proposed undertakings.
Statement of Issues
27.
The ACCC published a Statement of Issues on 26 October 2006 identifying a
number of competition issues with the 5 October offer. In the Statement of Issues
the ACCC raised issues relating to market definition and identified issues of
concern.
28.
The Statement of Issues sought further information on the geographic scope of
the market definition. Further information was sought on the likelihood of greater
interconnectivity of Queensland gas fields with south-eastern Australia through
the construction of gas transmission pipelines or through the use of gas swap
transactions.


Santos Limited - proposed acquisition of Queensland Gas Company Limited
-8-
29.
The Statement of Issues identified competition issues including that the proposed
acquisition would increase ownership concentration for the supply of wholesale
gas in Queensland (that is, sales of gas by gas producers). The Statement of
Issues also raised the possibility that the proposed PNG gas pipeline would pose a
competitive constraint on the wholesale supply of gas in Queensland.
Market Definition
Market definition
30.
The ACCC considered the following markets relevant to its decision:
–
the market for the production and supply of wholesale gas in the south
Queensland region connected by pipeline infrastructure (including Brisbane,
Gladstone and Mt Isa); and
–
the market for the production and supply of wholesale gas in the southern
states of Australia.
Product dimension
31.
The ACCC considered the product dimension of the markets to be natural gas.
The ACCC found that conventional gas and coal seam gas are close substitutes
and hence part of the same market.
32.
The ACCC considered whether the product dimension should be expanded to
include coal and/or electricity. The ACCC noted that a number of gas customers
used gas for electricity generation. This suggests that gas, at least indirectly,
competes with other fuels used for electricity generation, such as coal. Generally,
market inquiries indicated that only a limited number of large gas customers had
the potential to switch to coal and/or electricity. Furthermore, market inquiries
revealed there are a large number of customers that have limited viable
substitution possibilities to gas.
Functional dimension
33.
The ACCC considered whether there existed functional separation in the markets
between the exploration of gas and the large-scale production and supply of
wholesale gas to customers.
34.
In market inquiries industry participants indicated there are important differences
between exploration or ‘junior’ gas producers and gas producers with sufficient
proven and probable gas reserves to directly market and supply gas to customers
requiring a high degree of certainty in delivery.


Santos Limited - proposed acquisition of Queensland Gas Company Limited
-9-
35.
The ACCC found that gas producers need to be of a minimum size and scale to
be considered viable gas supply options for customers, particularly large
industrial customers. Market inquiries showed that besides Santos and Origin,
QGC was considered the next most viable competitor in supplying wholesale gas
directly to large customers. Market inquiries suggested that the other gas
producers were not considered to be of a size and scale to be a viable competitor,
or a competitive constraint.
Time dimension
36.
The ACCC considered the relevant period of time over which to consider the
proposed acquisition was a period of less than five years. The ACCC considered
that to take a time period beyond five years was too speculative to determine
whether any new entrant or substitution possibilities would emerge to constrain
any exercise of market power by Santos.
Geographic dimension
37.
The ACCC considered markets in two geographic regions:
–
The southern Queensland region interconnected by gas transmission
pipelines (including Brisbane, Gladstone and Mt Isa); and
–
The southern states of Australia.
Southern Queensland region for the production and supply of wholesale gas market
38.
The southern Queensland region covers the area QGC can ‘reach’ using existing
gas transmission pipelines. This market did not extend to include the Australian
Eastern seaboard due to the lack of or limited pipeline infrastructure
interconnection between southern Queensland and the southern states (including
South Australia, New South Wales and Victoria). Further, the ACCC was of the
view that the existence of gas swaps did not overcome this lack of pipeline
infrastructure interconnection as market inquiries indicated that the ability to
engage in gas swaps did not provide competitive constraints on gas producers in
the southern Queensland region. Gas swaps require two willing parties and
typically involve an arrangement whereby one party supplies the other party’s
required volume of gas to a particular destination, and vice versa. These
arrangements are mutually beneficial and may be used where, due to either the
lack of pipeline infrastructure or the direction of gas flow along existing pipeline
infrastructure, the parties would not otherwise be able to send its gas to the
required destination. The ACCC considered that, particularly due to the limited
number of significant players in southern Queensland, the number of willing
parties is likely to be limited.
39.
The ACCC also considered that the generally higher ex-field prices for gas in the
southern states (compared to southern Queensland), combined with the costs of
transmission, makes it unlikely that the potential for gas to be supplied from areas
outside of southern Queensland would act as a significant price constraint on gas
producers in southern Queensland.


Santos Limited - proposed acquisition of Queensland Gas Company Limited
-10-
40.
The ACCC took into consideration the possibility that pipeline infrastructure may
be built in the future. The ACCC considered that, if the proposed acquisition
occurred, the likelihood of the pipelines being built was not sufficient to affect
the market definition. The issue of possible changes in the likelihood of the
pipelines being built arising due to the proposed acquisition is discussed further
below.
41.
The ACCC also considered that the geographic dimension of the market did not
extend to include the northern Queensland gas fields (the Moranbah gas fields)
due the lack of pipeline infrastructure connecting the Moranbah gas fields to
southern Queensland. The ACCC took into consideration the possibility that a
pipeline may be built, but considered that the potential for gas from the Moranbah
gas fields was not a strong competitive constraint on gas producers in southern
Queensland.
42.
The ACCC considered that the most relevant geographic dimension to consider
the proposed acquisition was the southern Queensland region interconnected by
existing gas transmission pipeline infrastructure.
Production and supply of wholesale gas markets in southern states of Australia
43.
The ACCC also considered whether the proposed acquisition would have
competition effects in other geographic regions in Australia. For this, the ACCC
noted that there are two proposed pipeline projects that will enable southern
Queensland gas to be supplied to the southern states:
–
the Ballera to Moomba Interconnect; and
–
the Queensland Hunter Gas Pipeline.
44.
Market inquiries suggested that one driver for these proposed interconnecting
pipeline projects was the existence of lower ex-field prices for gas in southern
Queensland and the potential for this gas to be a competitive constraint on gas
producers in the southern states (even including gas pipeline tariffs). Competition
from an independent QGC was seen as an important driver of these price
differentials. Therefore, the ACCC considered the southern states of Australia to
be a second relevant geographic region in which to consider the likely
competition effects of the proposed merger, since the building of the pipelines
would affect competition in the southern states and QGC’s independence was
seen as relevant to the likelihood of the pipelines being built.
Competition analysis
Market Concentration
45.
The ACCC considered the most relevant measurement of gas for the purposes of
analysing concentration in the market was proven and probable gas reserves, but
noted that there are a number of other relevant measures that provide insight into
the level of competitive tension in the market.


Santos Limited - proposed acquisition of Queensland Gas Company Limited
-11-
46.
The ACCC considered the proposed acquisition would result in a large existing
gas supplier effectively acquiring nearly all the current production reserves of a
smaller, but still significant wholesale gas supplier. Post-acquisition Santos
would account for a substantial proportion of the wholesale supply of gas in
southern Queensland. Together with Origin, Santos would account for a very
significant percentage of the wholesale supply of gas to the southern Queensland
market.
47.
The ACCC noted that the newly created NewCo would have a right to develop
100PJ of 2P reserves in the Undulla Nose in ATP648P. Even with this, however,
NewCo would have a very small market percentage of the wholesale supply of
gas in the southern Queensland market.
Actual and potential level of import competition
48.
The ACCC considered whether the actual and potential level of imports would be
sufficient to constrain Santos post acquisition.
49.
The ACCC has previously considered the potential importation of gas from
Papua New Guinea (‘PNG’) to Queensland by the proposed PNG Gas Pipeline
Project provided a competitive constraint and has previously stated that PNG gas
was considered to be a ‘shadow competitor’ by some market participants.
50.
Market inquiries indicated that the proposed PNG Gas Pipeline Project was
becoming increasingly speculative and the potential for PNG gas to be imported
was no longer considered to be a competitive constraint. The ACCC noted that
during the course of its inquiries, it was announced that the PNG Gas Pipeline
Project had been shelved.
Height of barriers to entry
51.
The ACCC considered that gas explorers and junior gas producers face
significant impediments to achieve the scale necessary to enter the market for the
production and supply of wholesale gas in southern Queensland and to become an
effective competitive constraint on Santos.
52.
The ACCC found that there did not appear to be significant barriers for acquiring
land tenements or licenses for initial exploration and test wells. The ACCC noted
that while there appeared to be large acreage available for exploration,
geographic considerations were a significant factor for determining the
successfulness of the exploration.
53.
However, the ACCC found that there appeared to be high barriers to entry for
companies to become a credible alternative in the market for the production and
supply of wholesale gas directly to customers. Market inquiries indicated that for
an explorer or junior gas producer to become a credible alternative, it must, at a
minimum, prove up significant proven and probable gas reserves.


Santos Limited - proposed acquisition of Queensland Gas Company Limited
-12-
54.
Market inquiries indicated that for a gas producer to develop its gas fields and
prove up the gas reserves to ‘proven and probable’ gas reserves considerable
capital expenditure is required; this capital expenditure is largely sunk
investment. Moreover, the gas producer needs to undertake capital investment to
construct gas processing facilities and pipelines to connect to the main gas
pipeline infrastructure. Market inquiries suggested that often a gas producer is
unwilling to invest significant capital without some degree of certainty that it will
have a customer to take its gas.
55.
Market inquiries indicated that customers, particularly large gas customers, need
to source their gas from a reliable supplier that has sufficient proven gas reserves,
an ability to supply large volumes of gas and a track record of an ability to
provide continuity of gas supply. Market inquiries revealed that from a customer
perspective, there is a distinction drawn between smaller gas explorers and
producers and those larger gas companies capable of entering into significant gas
sales agreements.
56.
Many market participants referred to this as the “chicken and egg” barrier faced
by gas producers wanting to expand its operations to market wholesale gas.
57.
The ACCC considered whether large customers have the ability to sponsor new
entry, or foster the development of smaller gas producers. The ACCC noted
instances where large customers have entered into agreements or joint ventures
with smaller producers to provide a capital injection to undertake investment in
infrastructure and to prove up certified gas reserves. However, market inquiries
revealed that there are still large risks involved and significant time lags before
the gas producer might be able to supply customers.
58.
The ACCC noted that the proposed acquisition included Newco entering into a
number of arrangements with Santos aimed at assisting NewCo in overcoming
many of the barriers faced by new entrants. However, the ACCC still considered
NewCo would face significant barriers to entry and expansion.
59.
The ACCC considered a key issue in this matter was the time it would take a new
entrant or NewCo to develop sufficient reserves and become an effective
competitive constraint in the market for the production and supply of wholesale
gas in southern Queensland.
60.
The ACCC had regard to the nature of the gas industry and found that while the
gas industry, particularly the coal seam gas industry, has experienced
considerable growth recently, much of the infrastructure used in the industry and
owned and operated, or used by industry participants are large investments and
long term assets. The period required to enter the market was considered to be
significant, particularly since the ACCC considered the relevant functional
dimension of the market to be the ability to enter into gas sales agreements with
customers, not simply the exploration of gas reserves.


Santos Limited - proposed acquisition of Queensland Gas Company Limited
-13-
Removal of a vigorous and effective competitor
61.
The ACCC noted that market participants in Queensland considered QGC to be
the third major producer and supplier of wholesale gas behind Santos and Origin.
Market inquiries also revealed QGC is widely and strongly considered as a
vigorous and effective competitor.
62.
Market inquiries pointed to QGC’s growth since moving from an exploration
vehicle to a producer and supplier of wholesale gas and QGC’s role in actively
underpinning a number of infrastructure projects. Market inquiries suggested that
QGC has been an aggressive competitor in the supply of wholesale gas and that
QGC’s existence as a large independent supplier of gas has lead to some
customers experiencing competitive tendering processes for their gas
requirements.
63.
The ACCC noted that NewCo would have assets in the ‘non-Undulla Nose’
acreage in which it could prove up gas reserves and develop and a right to
develop up to 100PJ of gas in the Undulla Nose in ATP648P. However, market
inquiries revealed that customers were mindful of the uncertain prospects of the
newly established NewCo, to the extent that they largely dismissed its ability to
act as an effective constraint on Santos or Origin in the foreseeable future.
64.
Market inquiries also raised concerns about the ability and potential for NewCo
to be an independent and vigorous competitor when Santos would hold a 30%
shareholders interest in NewCo. Further market participants raised concerns
about the potential for Santos to influence future development and expansion of
NewCo through the commercial relations that were a part of the proposed
acquisition.
Ability to increase prices and profit margins
65.
The ACCC considered the merged entity would have the ability to increase prices
and/or increase profit margins.
66.
When considering the incentive and ability of Santos to increase prices post-
acquisition the ACCC had regard to current pricing behaviours of the industry
participants and how incentives may change. The ACCC noted that gas sales
agreements vary in duration, and that some gas sales agreements last for up to 20
years. As well, the ACCC noted that some gas sales agreements provide for the
parties being able to renegotiate the price of gas being supplied under a contract
periodically for the duration of the contract.
67.
Market inquiries indicated that ex-field gas prices in southern Queensland,
particularly in the south eastern region (the Surat Basin), were lower than the ex-
field gas prices elsewhere in eastern Australia. Market inquiries also suggested
that QGC has been very competitive with its gas price when submitting tenders
for gas sales agreements.


Santos Limited - proposed acquisition of Queensland Gas Company Limited
-14-
68.
Market inquiries raised concerns regarding Santos’ incentives to increase gas
prices post acquisition. Santos operates a portfolio of gas assets. It is likely that
Santos will be mindful of the negative effect lower gas prices in southern
Queensland may have on the value of its other gas reserves. Market inquiries
further raised concerns on Santos’ incentives due to the existence of price
renegotiating clauses present in some gas sales agreements. Market inquiries
noted that often these price renegotiating clauses allow parties (including Santos)
to renegotiate the price of gas in the gas sales agreement periodically for the
duration of the contract and a reference point may be the ‘market’ price for gas.
69.
The ACCC noted that a number of existing gas sales agreements, as well as new
gas sales agreements, will be negotiated (or renegotiated) over the next few years.
The ACCC considered the proposed acquisition will likely lessen competition for
these agreements and, given the long term nature of gas sales agreements, this
lessening of competition will have long lasting effects in the market.
70.
The ACCC also considered whether the proposed acquisition will affect the likely
timing of construction of new gas transmission pipelines. The ACCC considered
that QGC was an important player in several pipeline projects. If Santos acquired
most of QGC’s proven and probable gas reserves, the likelihood of the proposed
pipeline projects occurring would be lessened. The ACCC considered that Santos
had less incentive for pipeline projects linking southern Queensland to other areas
to be built. Any delays in the pipeline projects would lead to a less competitive
environment in those areas that the pipelines would potentially supply,
particularly given the lower price of southern Queensland gas compared to other
areas.
71.
The ACCC considered whether NewCo, with the 100PJ of 2P reserves would be
in a position to constrain the pricing behaviour of Santos.
72.
Market inquiries raised concerns regarding the potential for a ‘floor price’ for gas
to be created due to the proposed arrangements whereby NewCo could sell the
gas to Santos if it was unable to sell to a third party customer. Specifically,
customers considered that NewCo would not be willing to sell its gas to a
customer at a price below any price agreed to between Santos and NewCo if
NewCo exercises an option to put the gas to Santos for payment.
73.
The ACCC considered that the Santos entity would have the incentive and the
ability to increase gas prices in southern Queensland. The ACCC considered that
NewCo would not be in a position to constrain the pricing behaviour of the
Santos entity with only 100PJ of 2P reserves. The ACCC noted that NewCo may
be able to develop and prove up further 2P gas reserves in the non-Undulla Nose;
however the ACCC considered that NewCo may not be able to expand in the
foreseeable future to a minimum size and scale necessary to constrain the pricing
behaviour of the Santos entity.
74.
The ACCC considered that the proposed acquisition would be likely to lead to
higher current and future gas prices in the southern Queensland market and
reduce the likelihood of significantly lower gas prices in other regions,
particularly in the southern states.


Santos Limited - proposed acquisition of Queensland Gas Company Limited
-15-
Undertakings
75.
The ACCC also considered whether the court enforceable undertakings proposed
by Santos, pursuant to section 87B of the Act, would address the issues of
concerns identified by the ACCC. A brief summary of the undertakings offered
by Santos is set out below:
Santos not to purchase further shares in NewCo or assets of NewCo
The proposed undertakings included provisions that Santos undertakes not to,
without the prior written approval of the ACCC, acquire any legal or equitable
interest in shares in NewCo if it resulted in Santos’ shareholding in NewCo
exceeding 30% of the total issued ordinary voting share capital of NewCo and
not to, without the prior written approval of the ACCC, acquire any legal or
equitable interest in any asset of NewCo.
Ringfencing concerning the operations of NewCo and the Board of NewCo
The proposed undertakings included provisions for Santos to ringfence itself
from the operations and the Board of NewCo.
With regard to the operation of NewCo, the undertakings provided that Santos
will not interfere with the management or operation of NewCo; do anything
to prevent NewCo from continuing to operate independently, and any
dealings between Santos and NewCo will be conducted on arm’s length
commercial basis; seek any confidential information from NewCo; or attempt
to influence, either directly or indirectly, the decision of the NewCo Board of
Directors including but not limited to decisions relating to pricing, removal or
appointment of management personnel.
With regard to the board of NewCo, the undertakings provided that Santos
will use its best endeavours to procure that no person is appointed to the
Board of NewCo or continues to act as a director of NewCo unless they are
an Independent Person. The undertakings also included provisions that Santos
will ensure that no officer or employee of Santos will accept a position of the
Board of NewCo and not to appoint to any of Santos’ boards any person who
is an officer or employee of NewCo. Also Santos will not without the written
approval of the ACCC propose, vote on or act in any way to influence a
resolution to change the structure of, or otherwise seek to make changes to the
corporate structure of NewCo, or to raise capital or undertake another
transaction for the funding of the operations of NewCo.
Reporting breaches and audit requirements.
The proposed undertakings included provisions for Santos, upon becoming
aware of a breach of particular clauses of the 87B Undertaking, advising the
ACCC of the breach including the full particulars of the breach and the
measures Santos will take to rectify the breach and to avoid its repetition.


Santos Limited - proposed acquisition of Queensland Gas Company Limited
-16-
The proposed undertakings also provided for an Independent Auditor’s report
being provided to the ACCC reporting on Santos’ compliance with particular
clauses of the 87B Undertaking, making any recommendations as the auditor
consider necessary to ensure that Santos complies with the clauses, any
qualifications made by the auditor in forming its view and any
recommendations by the auditor to improve the integrity of the audit process.
76.
The ACCC did not consider the proposed undertakings proffered by Santos went
to resolving the ACCC’s competition concerns.
77.
While the undertaking may have ensured that Newco remained largely
independent from Santos, and had some access to capital, the undertaking did not
alter the fact that Newco would return to the status of an exploration company
and there was no guarantee that it would re-emerge as a competitor in the
wholesale gas market.
78.
Even if the undertaking had fully addressed this concern, the Commission may
have been reluctant to accept a long term behavioural undertaking aimed at a
addressing a structural issue.
Conclusion
79.
On the basis of the above, including taking into account the proposed
undertakings, the ACCC formed the view that the proposed acquisition of
Queensland Gas Company Limited by Santos Limited would be likely to result in
a substantial lessening of competition in the market for the production and supply
of wholesale gas in the southern region of Queensland and in the market for the
production and supply of wholesale gas in the southern states of Australia in
contravention of section 50 of the Act.
