3oth January 2007 
Proposal by a subsidiary of Santos Limited ("Santos") to acquire 
Queensland Gas Company Limited ("QGC"), subject to implementation of 
the de-merger transaction. 
1. Request for informal merger approval: Santos seeks informal approval 
- 
from the ACCC to acquire QGC, subject to the implementation of the 
de-merger transaction as outlined in this submission ('new proposal'). 
This new proposal is in substitution for Santos' current offer to 
acquire control of QGC ('old proposal'). Santos will announce today 
that it will allow the current takeover offer to lapse next week. 
2. In respect of Santos' old proposal, Santos has provided confidential 
- 
submissions and information to the ACCC. The ACCC has conducted 
market inquiries, published a Statement of Issues, and is scheduled to 
announce its decision on the old proposal on 3 1" January 2007. In the 
light of this new proposal and as the old proposal will lapse, Santos 
has requested the ACCC to discontinue its consideration of the old 
proposal, which the ACCC has indicated it will do. 
3. Santos' announcement of its new proposal and commencement of 
ACCC's market inquiries: Santos requests the ACCC to commence 
market inquiries, as soon as possible, as Santos will announce the new 
proposal on 3oth January 2007. This submission (but not the 
identified confidential annexures) may be published by the 
ACCC. 
4. Reason for the new proposal: in order to persuade the shareholders of 
QGC to sell their shares to Santos, and to encourage the board of 
QGC to give its favourable recornmendation, Santos has formulated a 
new proposal which provides QGC's shareholders with the 
Santos’ summary of new proposal in relation to QGC
30 January 2007


opportunity to realize significant value from QGC's success to date.' 
This will happen in two ways for QGC's shareholders- 
(l) By ownership of shares in the 'new QGC'. 
QGC's shareholders will be given the additional opportunity to 
benefit from the accelerated commercialisation of substantial 
parts of QGC's assets. They will be asked to approve a de- 
merger transaction effected through a scheme of arrangement 
and capital reduction by QGC. The de-merger transaction will 
spin out Newco, to become ' the new QGC ', as an attractive 
business and investment proposition in its own right. 
In order to convince shareholders as to the capability of Newco 
to become ' the new &GC ', Newco will hold QGC's interests in 
certain permits and licences for about 54% of QGC's gas in 
place, including permits which QGC has said previously will be 
"the next Undulla Nose". Newco's acreage will be about 70% 
of QGC's total acreage.3 As stated by QGC last week, the 
company "has enormous potential to expand beyond the 
Berwyndale South gasfield by proving-up substantial 3P gas 
reserves in the areas outside Berwyndale South 
Newco will also have the benefit of facilitating agreements 
giving Newco immediate certainty and credibility for its 
activities as a gas supplier as it develops its own permits. The 
assets of Newco will include a contractual right to develop gas 
reserves in the Undulla Nose in ATP 648P of up to 60PJ (50% 
of 1P and 50% of 2P reserves) and to sell and receive the 
proceeds of sale of those reserves to gas buyers. Newco will be 
The old proposal was rejected by the QGC board, which has subsequently recommended a proposal from 
AGL. The ACCC has given its approval to that proposal. 
"Both ATP 621P and ATP 651P have potential to be the next Undulla Nose", QGC Investor 
presentation, 30 October 2006, slide 4. 
" While these are exciting results, it should be remembered that the Undulla Nose region contains less 
than half of QGC's total estimated original gas-in-place(0GIP). . .This is a huge quantity establishing the 
Surat Basin as a world class source of clean energy for Australia", QGC Progress Report, 8 November 
2006, page 2. 
4 QGC's ASX announcement " QGC Statement on ACCC decision", 24 January 2007. 
Santos’ summary of new proposal in relation to QGC
30 January 2007


provided with access to drilling infrastructure and gas 
processing infrastructure. Newco will also have the right, but 
not the obligation to sell those reserves to Santos. Newco will, 
for instance, be able to borrow additional funds against this 
arrangement. 
Newco will issue shares to QGC's shareholders in proportion to 
their existing shareholdings in QGC. Newco will also issue 
shares to Santos for approximately $40 million to take Santos' 
total shareholding in Newco to 30% of its issued capital. This 
will provide Newco with capital to adequately exploit its asset 
base. 
The overall outcome will be that the resources of Newco will 
enable the current QGC board and management to direct and 
manage Newco, and to repeat QGC's success for not only the 
benefit of QGC's shareholders, but also for the benefit of gas 
buyers and other gas industry stakeholders. 
(2) Sale of shares in QGC to Santos: it will only be after QGC's 
current shareholders have expressed their vote of confidence in 
the success of the de-merger transaction and the future of ' the 
new QCC ', and after obtaining Court approval of the scheme of 
arrangement, that Santos will be able to acquire their shares in 
QGC. 
5. Favourable competition law outcome: the direct competition law 
- 
consequence of the new proposal will be to ameliorate substantially 
any reasonable concerns the ACCC and some gas industry 
stakeholders may have had about Santos' old proposal having a 
possible adverse effect on competition. Their concerns may have been 
based on views that as the old proposal removed QGC as an 
independent gas supplier this could have had a material effect on 
competition in the relevant market as a whole, notwithstanding 
Santos' contrary views about the effectiveness of the competitive 
responses of rival suppliers, consumers and other industry 
stakeholders. 
There are three main reasons as to why the new proposal will not 
offend the merger 
- 
provisions of the Trade Practices Act 1974 :- 
Santos’ summary of new proposal in relation to QGC
30 January 2007


(a) Compared with the old proposal, the implementation of the new 
proposal will halve the gas in place assets being acquired by 
Santos to be added to its existing coal seam gas interests at 
Fairview. The physical split of the assets is depicted on the 
attached map, and the split of QGC's "gas in place" is set out in 
the following table- 
Permits 
ATP 574P 
ATP 610P 
PLs 179,180,228,229~ 
ATP 621P 
Pls 201,211, 212 
ATP 632P 
ATP 647P 
ATP 648P 
ATP 65 1P 
ATP 676P 
TOTAL 
Original Gas in Place (PJ) 
New OGC 
OGC (Santos) 
Santos will assume QGC's obligations under existing gas 
supply agreements and commitments (other than the conditional 
AGL, gas supply agreement) under which most of QGC's 
existing 2P reserves are committed. Santos acknowledges that 
the direct outcome of its new proposal will be to create and 
facilitate a vigorous, independent and highly effective 
competitor in the form of ' the new QGC '. 
(b) As noted above, the new proposal will create ' the new QGC ' 
with board, management and company personnel, resources, 
funding and facilitating arrangements which will enable the 
new QGC to step quickly into the shoes of the old QGC as a 
supplier of coal seam gas to consumers. QGC's management 
team has a detailed understanding of the geology of the areas 
PLs out of previous ATP 620P. 
Santos’ summary of new proposal in relation to QGC
30 January 2007


and the completion techniques required to effectively exploit 
the reserves of coal seam gas within the areas. QGC has itself 
suggested that the production and supply of coal seam gas is 
more akin to a steady manufacturing operation once these 
techniques are applied. 
The approval of the scheme of arrangement by shareholders, 
and the participation of the board, management and staff of 
QGC in the direction and management of Newco, will be their 
vote of confidence that ' the new &GC ' will be a successful 
business as an independent and highly effective competitor of 
Santos and all other Queensland gas suppliers. 
It can be expected that industrial and wholesale consumers will 
be supportive of ' the new &GC ' by early entry into gas 
purchase arrangements. 
(c) As a result of Santos developing the permits retained by QGC 
to perform existing gas supply agreements and to compete to 
win new gas contracts, and with Newco developing and 
supplying gas from its permits to win new gas contracts, more 
gas will become available for competitive supply much sooner 
to many more consumers (and not just AGL) than if QGC had 
remained independent.6 
Further implementation details:- 
(1) Acquisition of QGC: Santos, with the co-operation of QGC, 
proposes to effect a scheme of arrangement under which Santos 
will acquire all of the shares in QGC, on the condition that the 
de-merger transaction outlined below is first implemented. 
Newco will be de-merged from QGC, as part of the same 
scheme of arrangement, pursuant to which Santos will acquire 
all of the shares of QGC. 
(2) Establishment of Newco: Newco will be established by QGC 
initially as a wholly-owned subsidiary of QGC. In connection 
" With a potentially very large resource base of coal seam gas still to be developed, QGC will be well 
placed to expand and grow quickly, in an environment that increasingly values clean energy", QGC 
Announcement, 5 December 2006, page l (emphasis added). 
Santos’ summary of new proposal in relation to QGC
30 January 2007


with the de-merger, Newco will assume the name "Queensland 
Gas Company Limited" and will list on the ASX. 
(3) De-merger transaction: Subject to a scheme of arrangement 
under Part 5.1 of the Corporations Act between QGC and its 
shareholders becoming effective, QGC will transfer to Newco 
the assets, liabilities, obligations, personnel and enter into the 
associated arrangements in accordance with the scheme 
proposal and de-merger arrangements for the establishment of 
Newco, including as follows:- 
(a) 
Permits and related assets: QGC's interests in ATP 
574P, ATP 621P, ATP 632P, ATP 647P, ATP 647 
farm-out, ATP 65 1 P and ATP 785P being about 
70% of QGC's acreage and 54% of QGC's gas in 
place: refer to Confidential Annexure "A". 
(b) 
Transitional services, assistance, records and 
information agreement for the purpose of 
establishing Newco's operations independently 
from Santos as soon as possible: refer to Part A of 
Confidential Annexure "B". 
(c) 
Pipeline consent agreement to enable Newco to 
construct and operate a pipeline connecting ATP 
621 to the Roma to Brisbane pipeline: refer to Part 
B of Confidential Annexure "B". 
(d) 
Drilling Rig access agreement for the purpose of 
enabling Newco to use such drilling rigs that QGC 
owns or has a contractual right to use, including 
associated personnel and services: refer to Part C 
of Confidential Annexure "B". 
(e) 
Pipeline and Plant Infrastructure Access 
Agreement for the purpose of enabling Newco to 
use spare capacity in upstream pipeline and plant 
infrastructure owned by QGC: refer to Part D of 
Confidential Annexure "B". 
Santos’ summary of new proposal in relation to QGC
30 January 2007


(f) 
Arrangements in relation to ATP 648P, which will 
enable Newco to conduct operations there to meet 
a reserves target for itself of 60PJ, 50% of which 
must be 1P reserves and 50 % must be 2P reserves, 
for sale to consumers, or at Newco's election for 
possible sale to Santos at an agreed price: refer to 
Confidential Annexure "C". 
(4) QGC's scheme of arrangement: QGC will undertake a scheme 
of arrangement and a capital reduction, pursuant to which 
QGC's shareholders will receive all of the shares held by 
QGC in Newco in proportion to the number of shares they 
hold in QGC. 
(5) Santos' shareholding 
- in Newco: Santos will subscribe for 
shares in Newco, in the order of 200 million shares at 20 cents 
per share, at a total subscription price of approximately $40 
million, which will give Newco, in conjunction with the 
benefit of the arrangements in relation to ATP 648P set out in 
annexure "C", sufficient capital to adequately exploit 
Newco's asset base. Santos' total shareholding in Newco will 
be 30% of the issued capital of Newco, including its pro rata 
entitlement to Newco shares through its existing QGC 
shareholding). 
Santos will enter into undertakings with the ACCCpursuant 
to section 8723 of the Trade Practices Act 1974 stating that, 
until Santos is released by the ACCCfiom its obligation to do 
so, it will not, withoutJirst obtaining the ACCC9s prior 
written consent, seek to- 
(a) appoint any director representing it to the board of 
Newco, 
(b) acquire fiom another shareholder any shares in the 
issued capital of Newco, or 
(c) remove any directorfiom the board of Newco, unless 
the proposal is recommended by a majority of the board 
of Newco. 
Santos’ summary of new proposal in relation to QGC
30 January 2007


(6) Approval of the de-merger transaction: upon approval of the de- 
merger transaction, Santos will then acquire all of the shares in 
QGC subject to implementation of the de-merger transaction 
agreements. 
Santos will enter into undertakings with the ACCC to observe 
and perform the de-merger transaction agreements. 
Santos’ summary of new proposal in relation to QGC
30 January 2007


ASXlMedia Release 
SuratIBowen Basins 
§CO tia 
Queensland 
Legend 
Santos acreage 
Undulla Nose 
Oil Field 
NewQGC 
F" Gas Field 
- Oil Pipeline 
Gas Pipeline 
Santos Ltd ABN 80 007 550 923 30 January 2007 File No.CORlNV P281 
Santos’ summary of new proposal in relation to QGC
30 January 2007
