 
 
1 
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
tel: (02) 6243 1368
mergers@accc.gov.au
www.accc.gov.au
Our ref: 
IM - 70165 
Your ref: 
 
Contact officer: 
Braeden Smith 
Contact phone: 
02 6243 4936 
16 May 2019 
Dear Interested Party 
Re:  Request for submissions: Saputo Dairy Australia’s proposed acquisition 
of Lion Dairy and Drinks Pty Ltd’s specialty cheese business 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
the proposed acquisition of the cheese business of Lion Dairy and Drinks Pty Ltd (Lion 
Cheese Business) by Saputo Dairy Australia Pty Ltd (Saputo) (the proposed 
acquisition). 
The Lion Cheese Business and Saputo overlap in the acquisition of raw milk in Tasmania 
and the production and sale of a range of cheese varieties including cream cheese, 
parmesan and certain types of cheddar.  
Further details regarding the acquisition can be found at Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact on competition.  In particular, we are 
seeking your views on: 
 
the impact on prices or terms of supply farmers receive for their raw milk in 
Tasmania 
 
the impact on the price of various cheeses. 
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
Please provide your response by no later than 5pm on 30 May 2019. Responses may be 
emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: Submission re: Saputo’s proposed 
acquisition of Lion’s specialty cheese business- attention Braeden Smith. If you would like 


 
2 
to arrange a time to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any questions about 
this letter, please contact Braeden Smith on 02 6243 4936. 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public 
Mergers Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We will not 
disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by 
law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or during court proceedings) or 
in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010.  Where the 
ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, the ACCC will notify you in advance 
where possible so that you may have an opportunity to be heard.  Therefore, if the 
information provided to the ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our 
Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
Tom Leuner 
General Manager 
Merger Investigations 


 
 
3 
Attachment A 
Saputo Australia 
Saputo is a wholly owned subsidiary of Saputo Inc., one of the ten largest dairy 
processors in the world. Saputo produces a range of dairy products for domestic and 
export markets. Saputo’s milk and cheese brands include: 
 
Devondale 
 
Sungold  
 
Warrnambool Heritage Cheddars 
 
Coon 
 
Cracker Barrel (the Cracker Barrel trademark is owned by Kraft and used 
under licence by Saputo) 
 
Mil Lel 
 
Liddells and  
 
Great Ocean Road.  
In 2018, Saputo acquired certain assets and liabilities of Murray Goulburn, which 
included a number of cheese varieties sold under the Devondale brand. As a part of 
that acquisition, Saputo acquired a processing plant in Tasmania, at Smithton. This 
plant produces milk powder, bulk butter and cream primarily for export or onsale to 
other processors. 
Lion Dairy and Drinks Australia  
Lion’s main activities include the manufacture, marketing and distribution of various 
food and drink products in Australia, including dairy products such as white and 
flavoured milk, cheese and cream.  
The Lion Cheese Business manufactures and supplies various cheeses under 
brands including: 
 
South Cape 
 
Tasmanian Heritage 
 
Heidi Farm  
 
King Island Dairy  
 
Mersey Valley 
 
Dairy Farmers and  
 
Australian Gold.  
These brands cover a variety of cheeses including brie, camembert, blue vein, goat’s 
cheese, washed rind, specialty cheddar, cottage cheese and some hard cheeses. All 
of these products are produced at Lion’s two cheese plants in Tasmania, at Burnie 
and on King Island.  
These products are supplied for retail distribution through grocery chains, and also 
through the food service channels. Lion also supplies cheese to manufacturers, 
resellers and private labels. 
 
 


 
4 
The proposed acquisition 
Saputo proposes to acquire the Lion Cheese Business. This proposed acquisition 
comprises Lion’s cheese processing facilities at Burnie and King Island, two dairy 
farms on King Island, and all other assets required for the manufacture and supply of 
various cheeses produced at Burnie and on King Island. 
Accordingly, the two parties overlap in the acquisition of raw milk in Tasmania, and in 
the production and sale of various cheeses including cream cheese, parmesan and 
cheddar. 
 
 


 
5 
Attachment B 
1. Please provide a brief description of your business or organisation.  
2. Please outline the reasons for your interest in the proposed acquisition, including 
any commercial relationship/s with either of Saputo or Lion. 
Farmers 
3. Please describe your farm. The ACCC would appreciate receiving information 
about the processor/s that you currently supply, the volume of milk supplied per 
annum and your calving pattern. 
4. Please identify all processors that you consider are viable competitors for your 
raw milk and whether you have switched between processors in the past. If you 
decide to exclude any particular Tasmanian processors from this list, please 
provide reasons why. 
5. What sets the offers of different processors in Tasmania apart? For instance, do 
they offer different incentives or varied contractual terms; or do particular 
processors only pursue particular farmers? 
6. What impact do you think Saputo acquiring Lions Cheese Business will have on 
your business? Will it reduce the number of competitors for your raw milk? 
Dairy processors 
7. Who do you consider are currently your closest competitors in acquiring raw milk 
in Tasmania? If there is a particular processor/s in Tasmania that you don’t 
consider you compete strongly with, please provide detail as to why. 
8. Please describe your organisation’s supply of cheese. The ACCC would 
appreciate receiving information about the specific types and volumes of cheese 
you supply.  
9. Please comment on whether you think the proposed acquisition will have an 
effect on competition for the supply of cheese. 
Purchasers of cheese 
10. Please address the closeness of competition between Saputo and the Lion 
Cheese Business in the supply of cheese. Relevant factors to consider may 
include, the range of cheeses supplied, whether Lion and Saputo respond to 
each other’s promotional activity, and whether you can substitute between 
Saputo and Lion cheese products. Please provide specific examples where 
possible.  
11. Is there a distinction between everyday cheese varieties, such as block cheddar, 
and more specialty products, such as soft cheeses and premium hard cheeses?  
12. To the extent that some varieties have products that have both lower value and 
higher value options, for instance parmesan or cheddar, to what extent do these 
compete with each other directly? For example, does Saputo’s Mil Lel parmesan 
compete closely with Lion’s South Cape parmesan. 
13. If Saputo acquired the Lion Cheese Business, is this likely to impact your 
business and the terms on which you acquire various varieties of cheese? 


 
6 
14. Are cheese imports a viable alternative to sourcing cheese from domestic 
producers? Are there particular varieties of cheese that are more or less suited to 
import competition? 
Other information or competition issues 
15. Please provide any additional information or comments, or identify other 
competition issues, that you consider relevant to the ACCC’s consideration of the 
proposed acquisition under section 50 of the Act.  
 
