 
Page 1 of 12 
 
Statement of Issues 
8 August 2019 
 Saputo Dairy Australia – proposed acquisition of Lion 
Dairy and Drinks’ cheese business  
Purpose 
1. 
Saputo Dairy Australia Pty Ltd (Saputo) proposes to acquire the assets related 
to the cheese business of Lion Dairy & Drinks Pty Ltd (Lion) (the proposed 
acquisition).  
2. 
This Statement of Issues: 
 
gives the preliminary views of the Australian Competition and Consumer 
Commission (ACCC) on competition issues arising from the proposed 
acquisition  
 
identifies areas of further inquiry, and 
 
invites interested parties to submit comments and information to assist our 
assessment of the issues. 
3. 
Statements of Issues give preliminary views and do not refer to confidential 
information provided by the parties or other market participants, therefore they 
may not be a full articulation of the ACCC’s preliminary position. 
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views 
4. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is 
in section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits 
acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of 
substantially lessening competition in any market. 
5. 
The ACCC divides its preliminary views into three categories, 'issues of concern', 
'issues that may raise concerns' and ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’. 


Saputo Dairy Australia – proposed acquisition of Lion’s cheese business 
 
Page 2 of 12 
Issues that may raise concerns – Acquisition of raw milk  
6. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition may substantially lessen 
competition in the market for the acquisition of raw milk from farmers in 
Tasmania.   
7. 
The market for the acquisition of raw milk in Tasmania is already concentrated. 
The proposed acquisition would combine processing plants of the second and 
third largest acquirers of raw milk, and significantly increase Saputo’s market 
share. Lion currently appears to offer a competitive alternative to the other 
processors on price and non-price terms.  
8. 
While other processors will remain in Tasmania, the ACCC’s preliminary view is 
that the proposed acquisition may decrease the intensity of competition for raw 
milk resulting in lower farmgate milk prices or less advantageous terms of supply 
being offered to farmers.  
9. 
Ranges indicating the approximate market shares for raw milk purchasing in 
mainland Tasmania are set out in the table below:1 
Fonterra – Wynyard and Spreyton 
50 to 60% 
Saputo – Smithton  
15 to 20% 
Lion – Burnie (included in the 
proposed acquisition) 
10 to 15% 
Lion – Hobart (not included in the 
proposed acquisition)  
< 5% 
Mondelez International (Cadbury) 
< 10% 
Other 
< 5% 
 
Issues unlikely to raise concerns – Supply of cheeses 
10. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to result 
in a substantial lessening of competition in the supply of cheese. 
Making a submission 
11. 
The ACCC is seeking submissions from interested parties, particularly regarding 
whether the remaining processors in Tasmania would constrain Saputo post-
acquisition from lowering its farmgate milk prices. 
12. 
Further discussion of these and other issues, along with specific questions, is 
contained in this Statement of Issues.  
                                                 
 
1 These are approximate ranges based on the 2017/18 financial year. The figures are indicative ranges 
only, and they do not add up to 100%.  


Saputo Dairy Australia – proposed acquisition of Lion’s cheese business 
 
Page 3 of 12 
13. 
Interested parties should provide submissions by no later than 5pm on 22 
August 2019. Responses may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the 
title: Submission re: Saputo’s proposed acquisition of Lion’s cheese business - 
attention Alison Hill/Braeden Smith. If you would like to discuss the matter with 
ACCC officers over the telephone or in person, or have any questions about this 
Statement of Issues, please contact Alison Hill on 03 9910 9469 or Braeden 
Smith on 02 6243 4936.  
14. 
The ACCC anticipates making a final decision on 26 September 2019, however, 
this timeline can change. To keep abreast of possible changes in relation to 
timing and to find relevant documents, interested parties should visit the Mergers 
Register on the ACCC's website at www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
Confidentiality of submissions 
15. 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We 
will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) 
unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation 
or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition 
and Consumer Act 2010.  Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where possible so that you may 
have an opportunity to be heard.  Therefore, if the information provided to the 
ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’ 
16. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well 
as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
17. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
farmer-suppliers, customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) 
to ascertain and consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also 
intended to provide the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis 
for making further submissions should they consider it necessary. 
Timeline 
 
Date 
Event 
16 May 2019 
ACCC commenced review of the proposed 
acquisition 
18 July 2019 
ACCC amended the former provisional deadline for 
announcement of findings (25 July) to provide time to 
consider new information and make further inquiries. 
8 August 2019 
ACCC publication of Statement of Issues 


Saputo Dairy Australia – proposed acquisition of Lion’s cheese business 
 
Page 4 of 12 
22 August 2019 
Deadline for submissions from interested parties in 
response to this Statement of Issues 
26 September 2019 
Anticipated date for ACCC final decision  
 
The parties 
Lion  
18. 
Lion Dairy & Drinks is part of a food and beverage business that sells beer, wine, 
and dairy under a range of brands. The Lion business is ultimately owned by 
Kirin Holdings Company Limited.  
19. 
Lion is one of Australia’s largest dairy processors, manufacturing and distributing 
dairy products such as cheese, white and flavoured milk, and cream. It has dairy 
processing plants in different parts of Australia, including cheese processing 
plants in Burnie in Tasmania (the Burnie plant) and on Tasmania’s King Island 
(the King Island plant).  
20. 
Lion produces a range of ‘specialty’ cheeses at these plants, including brie, 
camembert, blue vein, goat’s cheese, washed rind, specialty cheddar and fetta. 
These cheeses are sold under brands including South Cape, Tasmanian 
Heritage, King Island Dairy, Mersey Valley and Australian Gold. These are 
supplied for retail distribution through grocery chains,  and also through food-
service channels. Lion also supplies cheese to manufacturers, resellers and 
private labels.  
21. 
Lion has another dairy processing plant in Tasmania, in Lenah Valley in Hobart 
(the Hobart plant), where it produces drinking milk. The Hobart plant is not 
included in the proposed acquisition and will be retained by Lion.  
Saputo 
22. 
Saputo is a wholly owned subsidiary of Saputo Inc., a Canadian-based company 
which it describes as one of the top 10 dairy processors in the world.  
23. 
Saputo conducts much of its Australian operations through Victorian-based 
Warrnambool Cheese and Butter (WCB). Saputo Inc. acquired a controlling 
shareholding interest in WCB in 2014 and subsequently acquired full control in 
2017. Saputo also acquired the operating assets and liabilities of Murray 
Goulburn Co-operative Co. Limited (Murray Goulburn) in 2018, and some 
cheese assets from Lion in 2015.  
24. 
Saputo produces a range of dairy products in Australia, including cheese, fresh 
milk, Ultra Heat Treated (UHT) milk, butter, cream and milk powder. Saputo’s 
Australian cheese varieties (and the brands under which they are marketed) 
include: parmesan (Mil Lel), cream cheese (Sungold), ‘premium’ and ‘everyday’ 
cheddar (Warrnambool Heritage, Great Ocean Road, Coon, Cracker Barrel, 
Devondale), mozzarella (Devondale) and lactose-free hard cheese (Liddells). 
25. 
Saputo operates one processing plant in Tasmania, in Smithton (the Smithton 
plant), which it acquired from Murray Goulburn. It is located within 90km of the 


Saputo Dairy Australia – proposed acquisition of Lion’s cheese business 
 
Page 5 of 12 
Burnie plant. The Smithton plant produces a range of bulk milk powders and bulk 
butter and cream, primarily for international export and for sale to domestic food 
processors.  
The proposed acquisition 
26. 
Saputo proposes to acquire the Burnie plant, the King Island plant, two farms on 
King Island, and all other assets required for the manufacture and supply of 
various cheeses produced at Burnie and on King Island.  
27. 
As indicated above, Saputo and Lion overlap in:  
 
the acquisition of raw milk from dairy farmers in mainland Tasmania, and 
 
the manufacture and supply of cheese varieties, including cream cheese, 
parmesan and cheddar. 
28. 
We note that Saputo is also proposing to acquire Lion’s King Island plant.  
Saputo currently has no presence on King Island, and the ACCC has focused its 
review on the acquisition of raw milk in mainland Tasmania where the parties 
overlap.   
Dairy industry background  
Dairy farming in Tasmania 
29. 
There are more than 400 dairy farms in Tasmania, producing approximately 9-10 
per cent of Australia’s raw milk.2 
30. 
The majority of dairy farms in Tasmania are located in the northern regions of 
the state, with the highest concentration in the far north-west region.3 
31. 
Compared with the Australian mainland, much of Tasmania’s production is 
particularly ‘seasonal’. There is a strong peak in production in spring, when there 
is a lot of grass growing naturally, and lower production in the autumn-winter 
months.4  
32. 
Some Tasmanian farmers produce a ‘flatter’ supply of milk, with less of a dip in 
supply outside the spring peak. This is achieved by making changes such as 
moving their herd from a seasonal spring calving pattern (where all cows calve in 
spring), to one where the herd is split (cows calve in two or three distinct time 
                                                 
 
2 Tasmanian Government, ‘The dairy industry in Tasmania: A guide for investors’, January 2019 (Dairy 
Industry Guide), pg 6; ACCC’s Dairy Inquiry Report, April 2018 (Dairy Inquiry Report), pg 71. 
Compared with other Australian dairy regions, Tasmania has a high average dairy herd size. The milk 
produced also has a high average butterfat/protein composition: 
https://www.dairyaustralia.com.au/industry/production-and-sales/milk/fat-and-protein.     
3 The primary dairy regions and the number of farms in those regions are as follows: King Island (10 
farms); Far North West (141 farms); North West (93 farms); Central North (91 farms); North East (64 
farms); and South (13 farms): Dairy Industry Guide, pg 6.  
4 Dairy Inquiry Report, pg 10-11, Figure 1.8. We note that the seasonality of Tasmanian production has 
been decreasing in more recent years: see Figure A4.27, pg 195.  


Saputo Dairy Australia – proposed acquisition of Lion’s cheese business 
 
Page 6 of 12 
periods) or calving is year-round (cows calve throughout the year). Calving 
outside of spring usually requires greater use of supplementary feed.5  
33. 
Accordingly, to produce a flatter supply of milk it typically costs more and 
requires extra effort, compared with producing milk on a seasonal spring curve. It 
also takes some time and cost to convert from seasonal production to flatter 
production, such as delaying calving for some of the cows as they are moved 
into a different calving pattern. 
Dairy processors in Tasmania 
34. 
Dairy processors use raw milk to produce a variety of dairy products. Some dairy 
products have higher values than others. ‘Specialty’ cheeses are at the higher 
end of the value chain, whereas milk powders are generally viewed as lower 
value ‘commodity’ products.  
35. 
The milk intake profile of a processing plant can be associated with the dairy 
products the plant produces. For example, plants producing fresh cheeses with 
year-round demand and relatively short shelf life  require flatter milk intake. By 
contrast, milk powder has a longer shelf life and a lower sales value, so milk 
powder plants often operate on a seasonal intake, with mass production 
occurring when abundant and cheaper spring milk can be acquired. 
36. 
Lion is the third largest raw milk acquirer in Tasmania, with the majority of its 
milk going to the Burnie plant. The plant produces ‘speciality’ cheese and has a 
flatter milk intake. Lion operates a ‘demand driven’ business model, where raw 
milk is procured on a smaller scale and managed so that acquisition correlates 
with likely demand for its dairy products.6 
37. 
Saputo is the second largest raw milk acquirer in Tasmania. Its Smithton plant 
produces bulk milk powders and bulk butter and cream. It acquires raw milk 
across the year but has a more seasonal raw milk intake.  
Fonterra  
38. 
The largest acquirer of raw milk in Tasmania is Fonterra, which processes more 
than half of the Tasmania’s raw milk.7   
39. 
Fonterra operates two processing plants in Tasmania. It manufactures cheese in 
its plant at Wynyard. It also manufactures milk powder at Spreyton. The ACCC 
understands that Fonterra’s milk acquisition profile tends to have a strong spring 
peak. 
Mondelez (Cadbury)  
40. 
Mondelez International makes Cadbury chocolate in Tasmania. Mondelez-
Cadbury acquires raw milk in northern Tasmania for initial processing in its plant 
in Burnie. Further processing is undertaken in its chocolate manufacturing plant 
in Claremont, on Hobart’s outskirts. 
                                                 
 
5 Dairy Inquiry Report, pg 11.  
6 Lion Dairy & Drinks, ‘Response to request for feedback – ACCC Inquiry into the Australian dairy industry 
Issues Paper’, 12 December 2016, pg 3. 
7 Dairy Industry Guide, pg 8. 


Saputo Dairy Australia – proposed acquisition of Lion’s cheese business 
 
Page 7 of 12 
41. 
Mondelez-Cadbury is the fourth largest acquirer of raw milk in Tasmania behind 
Lion. Market inquiries indicate that Mondelez-Cadbury acquires milk on a flatter 
profile than Fonterra and Saputo.  
Smaller producers  
42. 
There are a number of smaller dairy processors in Tasmania but their processing 
capacity and raw milk acquisition is comparatively limited. These include 
Parmalat, which makes yoghurt near Launceston; Ashgrove Cheese; and Dutch 
Mill, which owns the UHT plant at Edith Creek.8   
Previous ACCC decisions 
43. 
The ACCC has conducted a number of public reviews of acquisitions in the dairy 
industry in recent years. In April 2018, the ACCC decided not to oppose 
Saputo’s acquisition of the operating assets of Murray Goulburn, subject to a 
court enforceable undertaking to divest the dairy processing plant in Koroit (in 
Victoria) to an ACCC approved purchaser (the Saputo-Murray Goulburn 
decision). The Koroit plant was subsequently purchased by Bega.  
44. 
The ACCC also conducted a market inquiry into the Australian dairy industry.  
The final report, in which the ACCC made various findings and 
recommendations, was published on 18 April 2018 (Dairy Inquiry Report). 
Issue that may raise concerns: acquisition of raw milk  
45. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition may substantially 
lessen competition in the acquisition of raw milk from farmers in Tasmania by 
removing an effective competitor in an already concentrated market. 
Market definition 
46. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that it is likely that the product dimension of the 
relevant market is the acquisition of raw milk and the geographic dimension is 
mainland Tasmania.9  
47. 
As noted in the ACCC’s Dairy Inquiry Report10, due to the perishability of raw 
milk, processors whose factories are located within around 150 kilometres of a 
farmer are likely to be the closest competitors for their milk. 
48. 
Most of dairy processors and dairy farms in Tasmania are in the north of the 
state. The only processing plant located in the south of Tasmania that acquires 
raw milk from farmers is Lion’s Hobart plant. The ACCC understands that 
processing plants in the north may acquire part of their raw milk intake from 
                                                 
 
8 The Edith Creek plant was closed for development in 2017/18 and may not yet be operating at capacity.  
9 The term ‘mainland Tasmania’ is used to indicate that King Island is excluded from this analysis. 
Although market inquiries indicate that raw milk may be moving between King Island and the Tasmanian 
mainland in small amounts, the ACCC’s preliminary view is such a limited movement of milk is not 
significant to the analysis of the competitive effects of the proposed acquisition. 
10 Dairy Inquiry Report, pg 68. See also the Saputo-Murray Goulburn Decision, which referred to a 
distance of 150 – 200 kilometres, at pg 11. 


Saputo Dairy Australia – proposed acquisition of Lion’s cheese business 
 
Page 8 of 12 
farms in the south, and that Lion’s Hobart plant acquires raw milk both from the 
south and central northern regions. 
49. 
The ACCC considers the geographic scope of the relevant market is likely to be 
mainland Tasmania, but that the outcome of the competition analysis is unlikely 
to change whether a mainland Tasmania-wide or narrower northern mainland 
Tasmania geographic scope is adopted. 
Competition Analysis 
Further market concentration 
50. 
The ACCC has previously found that there is a high level of concentration in the 
acquisition of raw milk in Tasmania (and in most other regions of Australia).11 
While the level of concentration in a market is not determinative of the level of 
competition, the number of processors in a market can impact the intensity of 
competition for raw milk, which in turn can impact the farmgate milk price 
received by farmers.12  
51. 
Currently, Fonterra and Saputo are the two largest acquirers of raw milk in 
Tasmania, followed by Lion and Mondelez-Cadbury. The proposed acquisition 
would combine processing plants of the second and third largest acquirers of 
raw milk in Tasmania.  
52. 
The proposed acquisition would significantly increase the volume of Saputo’s 
raw milk acquisition and its processing capacity, and lead to further 
concentration of the acquisition of raw milk. After the acquisition, between them 
Fonterra and Saputo would hold over 80 per cent of the total volume of raw milk 
being acquired in Tasmania, and a similar share of the available processing 
capacity. Each of them would have market shares several times larger than their 
largest remaining rival, Mondelez-Cadbury.  
53. 
Market inquiries indicate that for many farmers in Tasmania Fonterra, Saputo 
and Lion are the only realistic buyers for their milk. The location of some farmers 
means their viable options are even more limited. While Mondelez-Cadbury may 
be an option for some farmers, market inquiries indicate that it would be difficult 
for many farmers to obtain a new supply agreement with them. Other smaller 
processors with even smaller capacity and volume intakes are unlikely to be 
available alternatives for many farmers.  
Lion’s terms for purchasing raw milk 
54. 
Market inquiries indicated that Lion may be offering competitive contract terms 
that are attractive to some farmers, in order to secure a stable, flatter supply of 
raw milk for its year-round production of higher value speciality cheeses. Some 
farmers suggest that:  
                                                 
 
11 The ACCC calculated the Herfindahl-Hirschman index (HHI) for Tasmania as part of its assessment of 
the concentration in Australian dairy regions during the Diary Inquiry. Based on data from the 2013/14 – 
2015/16 seasons, the HHI for the Tasmanian region indicated it was highly concentrated: Dairy Inquiry 
Report, pg 72-73. 
12 See the Dairy Inquiry Report, pg 107, 140. 


Saputo Dairy Australia – proposed acquisition of Lion’s cheese business 
 
Page 9 of 12 
 
Lion has traditionally offered a higher price for raw milk than other 
processors in Tasmania – in particular, Lion’s price structure has 
traditionally meant it offered more than other processors for winter milk, 
and 
 
Lion offers the option of locking in a percentage of a farmer’s milk supply 
with a fixed price for three years, and this can be a favourable option for 
farmers wishing to improve their ability to obtain finance and manage 
business risk. Lion also offers a one year fixed price option.  
55. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that Lion appears to compete with the other 
processors through price and the other competitive features in its offering. With 
its Burnie plant being acquired by Saputo, competitive constraints placed by Lion 
on other processors through those features may be diminished or lost.  
56. 
The ACCC has also noted that currently Lion is one of the two processors (along 
with Mondelez-Cadbury) that appears to have stronger incentives to offer 
competitive terms to secure flatter raw milk supply.  
57. 
Post-acquisition Saputo may have less incentive to maintain those competitive 
terms for flat milk, because it could divert off-peak raw milk from its Smithton 
plant (which produces longer shelf-life milk power and has more flexibility in 
relation to the timing of production) to the Burnie plant, in the event that there 
was a shortfall of winter milk. 
Low likelihood of entry or expansion 
58. 
The ACCC has considered whether the threat of new raw milk acquirers entering 
Tasmania (for example, other processors or milk brokers / aggregators), or the 
threat of capacity expansions by existing processors there, may also act as a 
competitive constraint on Saputo post-acquisition. The ACCC’s preliminary view 
is that this is unlikely to be a significant competitive constraint. 
59. 
We note that there have been examples of fairly recent entry and expansion in 
Tasmania. For example, Tasmanian Dairy Products (of which Murray Goulburn 
held a partial and subsequently full share) established the Smithton plant in 
2012, at a reported cost of $70 million.13  
60. 
However, consistent with the ACCC’s conclusions in the Saputo-Murray 
Goulburn decision,14 the ACCC considers that there are likely to be significant 
barriers to large-scale new entry into milk-processing in Tasmania as: 
 
the costs of establishing milk processing infrastructure, equipment and 
logistics capabilities are significant, some of which may not be recoverable 
if the entry is unsuccessful 
 
incumbent processors enjoy an established presence in the industry, which 
can help in retaining or attracting farmers – smaller processors or new 
entrants may have difficulties matching or countering these advantages, 
and 
                                                 
 
13 
‘NW 
milk 
plant 
opens’, 
26 
September 
2012, 
Australian 
Broadcasting 
Corporation, 
https://www.abc.net.au/news/2012-09-25/milk-plant-opens/4279734  
14 See also the Dairy Inquiry Report, pg 94-97. 


Saputo Dairy Australia – proposed acquisition of Lion’s cheese business 
 
Page 10 of 12 
 
economies of scale in production are important, and a rival processor may 
be at a cost disadvantage if it is unable to reach the scale of the major 
processors in the region.  
Relevance of milk pricing policies 
61. 
Historically, Saputo and other dairy processors in Australia have applied a single 
pricing policy and published a single headline farmgate milk price applicable to 
the wider ‘Southern Milk Region’.15 In the past processors have indicated to the 
ACCC that many farmers want a single price for the Southern Milk Region, and 
that departing from a single pricing policy would have a significant negative 
impact on a processor’s reputation with dairy farmers. The ACCC considered 
whether this pricing policy could limit Saputo’s ability or incentives to lower the 
farmgate milk prices in Tasmania post-acquisition, even if local competitive 
tension lessened.  
62. 
However, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the existence of the ‘Southern Milk 
Region’ would not be enough to restrict the ability of Saputo to lower prices in 
Tasmania because:16 
 
The practice of a single-pricing policy for the Southern Milk Region does 
not mean that all farmers supplying a particular processor receive the 
same benefits for supplying their milk. Processors may tailor their offer to 
farmers through various means, to target the retention or recruitment of 
farmers with particular characteristics or from a particular location and, 
conversely, may not offer them elsewhere. 
 
Single-pricing practices for the Southern Milk Region may not necessarily 
continue. The removal of the Murray Goulburn business, which historically 
drove the application of the policy, may have reduced the drive for 
processors to continue this pricing practice.  
ACCC’s preliminary views 
63. 
In summary, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition may 
substantially lessen competition in Tasmania for the acquisition of raw milk from 
farmers.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to the 
competition analysis.  In particular market participants may wish to comment on the 
following: 
 
How does Lion compare to other processors in terms of competition for the 
acquisition of raw milk from farmers? Is Lion a close competitor to Saputo in the 
acquisition of raw milk from farmers? 
 
Will competition from Fonterra and smaller processors be sufficient to constrain 
Saputo from lowering the farmgate milk price it offers farmers?  
 
What factors influence farmers in their choice of processor to supply raw milk to 
(for example, price, fixed term pricing options, additional financial incentives, length 
                                                 
 
15 The ‘Southern Milk Region’ encompasses Victoria, eastern South Australia, parts of New South Wales, 
and Tasmania. See for eg. Saputo-Murray Goulburn decision, pg 13-14. 
16 Note also the Dairy Inquiry Report, pg 59-63. 


Saputo Dairy Australia – proposed acquisition of Lion’s cheese business 
 
Page 11 of 12 
of contract term, or other factors)? Are there any features of Lion’s cheese 
business that make it an effective competitor for raw milk? If so, what are they? 
 
How difficult is it for a farmer to change milk production patterns, including 
changing from seasonal production to flatter production, and the reverse? What 
are the costs involved? Are there any other impacts that changing would have on a 
farm business? 
Issue unlikely to raise concerns: supply of cheese 
Market definition 
64. 
The ACCC considers that the relevant markets in relation to supply of cheeses 
are likely to be: 
 
national markets for the supply of speciality cheeses at a wholesale and 
retail level, and national markets for the supply of everyday cheeses at a 
wholesale and retail level, or 
 
alternatively, national markets for the supply of all types cheese at a 
wholesale and retail level.  
65. 
Irrespective of how the markets are defined, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that 
the proposed acquisition is unlikely to substantially lessen competition in the 
supply of cheeses. 
Competition analysis 
66. 
As discussed above, Lion’s cheese business is primarily focused on producing 
and supplying ‘specialty’ cheeses. These are premium products that are 
consumed occasionally or have special characteristics, and may be used for 
entertaining or gourmet cooking. Saputo also supplies cheese, but with a focus 
on ‘everyday’ varieties that are consumed on a more routine basis. 
67. 
The ACCC understands that Saputo has limited presence in the supply of 
speciality cheeses and Lion has limited presence in the supply of everyday 
cheeses. In addition, Lion and Saputo face competitive constraints from 
domestic competitors, private label cheeses and imports in the supply of 
speciality cheeses and everyday cheeses respectively.  
68. 
Post-acquisition, Saputo would continue to face competitive constraints from 
domestic competitors, private label cheeses and imports. These constraints 
would likely limit Saputo’s ability to increase prices. In addition, these constraints 
would also likely limit Saputo’s ability to leverage its position in speciality 
cheeses or everyday cheeses to bundle these two types of products in its 
wholesale supply.  
69. 
Therefore, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is 
unlikely to substantially lessen competition in the supply of cheeses. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its analysis in relation to the 
supply of cheeses.  In particular market participants may wish to comment on the 
following: 


Saputo Dairy Australia – proposed acquisition of Lion’s cheese business 
 
Page 12 of 12 
 
To what extent do purchasers of cheese see a difference between ‘specialty’ and 
‘everyday’ cheese varieties? Would purchasers of ‘specialty’ cheeses switch to 
purchasing ‘everyday’ cheeses in response to a 5-10% increase in price? 
 
Are either of Lion or Saputo dominant in the wholesale supply of cheese varieties, 
and do they provide any ‘must have’ products? 
 
To what extent would Saputo’s ability to raise prices or bundle cheese products 
post-acquisition be constrained by competition from other domestically produced 
cheeses, private label cheeses or imported cheeses? Is there a difference between 
the level of constraint provided in relation to ‘specialty’ and ‘everyday’ cheese 
varieties? 
ACCC's future steps 
70. 
As noted above, the ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on 
each of the issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue 
that may be relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. Submissions are 
to be received by the ACCC no later than 22 August 2019 and should be 
emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au. 
71. 
The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
72. 
The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 26 September 2019. 
However the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose 
of explaining the ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's 
public announcement to explain its final view. 
 
