 
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
tel: (02) 6243 1368 
mergers@accc.gov.au
www.accc.gov.au
Our ref: 
IM-71342  
Contact officer: 
Will Sommers / Olivia King 
Contact phone: 
(03) 9910 9444 / (03) 9290 1498 
23 August 2021 
Dear Interested Party 
Request for submissions: National Australia Bank’s proposed acquisition of 
Citigroup’s Australian consumer banking business 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
the proposed acquisition of Citigroup’s Australian consumer banking business (Citi) by 
National Australia Bank (NAB) (the proposed acquisition). 
Citi is an Australian authorised deposit-taking institution (ADI) whose holding company is 
headquartered in New York, USA. NAB is a major Australian ADI. Further details are 
provided at Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact upon competition. In particular, we are 
seeking your views on: 
• 
how closely NAB and Citi compete in the supply of various consumer banking 
products and services 
• 
the likely impact of the proposed acquisition on fees and/or service levels, and 
• 
the availability of alternatives to customers. 
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
Please provide your response by 5pm on 13 September 2021 via email with the title: 
Submission re: NAB/Citi - attention Will Sommers/Olivia King. If you require more time to 
respond, please let us know. 
If you would like to arrange a time to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any 


questions about this letter, please contact Will Sommers on (03) 9910 9444 or Olivia King 
on (03) 9290 1498. 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public 
Mergers Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC treats sensitive information it receives during a merger review as confidential, 
and will not publish your submission. We will not disclose submissions to third parties 
(except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of 
information legislation or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the 
Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, we will notify you in advance where possible so that you have an opportunity to 
be heard. Therefore please clearly indicate if any information you provide is confidential. 
Our Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on 
confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
Daniel McCracken-Hewson 
General Manager  
Merger Investigations  
 
 


Attachment A 
NAB  
NAB is an ASX listed diversified financial services organisation and is an ADI (ASX: NAB). 
NAB’s core retail banking business operates under the NAB brand and includes hundreds of 
physical branches across Australia, as well as online browser-based banking facilities and 
smartphone applications.  
Citigroup 
Citi is an Australian ADI whose holding company is headquartered in New York, USA. Citi 
operates predominantly through an online model in Australia (including a phone based sales 
and service team). Citi offers consumer banking services to consumers and apart from 
products bearing its own brand, also creates and supplies ‘white label’ unsecured consumer 
credit products that are branded and retailed to consumers by other businesses (e.g. 
supermarkets, retailers or other financial institutions).  
The proposed acquisition 
The proposed acquisition was announced on 9 August 2021, and involves NAB purchasing 
Citi’s home lending portfolio, unsecured lending business (operating under the Citigroup 
brand and white label partner brands), retail deposits business and wealth management 
business. Completion is expected by March 2022. 
Areas of overlap 
Broadly, NAB and Citi overlap in the supply of Australian consumer banking products and 
services, including: 
• 
credit cards  
• 
low interest credit cards 
• 
personal loans 
• 
wealth management and investment products 
• 
transaction and savings accounts 
• 
home loans 
 
 


Attachment B 
1. Please provide a brief description of your organisation, and the reasons for your interest 
in the proposed acquisition, including any commercial relationship/s with either of NAB or 
Citi.  
Competition  
2. Please describe how and the extent to which NAB and Citi compete with each other in 
the supply of: 
a. credit cards  
b. low interest credit cards 
c. personal loans 
d. wealth management and investment products 
e. transaction and savings accounts 
f. home loans, 
 
(each an area of overlap).  
 
Relevant factors may include price, product ranges, service offering (including branch 
networks and technological platforms) and ancillary benefits (including rewards 
programs). Please provide specific examples where possible. 
3. Please identify alternative suppliers for each area of overlap. Please explain how and the 
extent to which these suppliers compete with NAB and/or Citi in respect of each area of 
overlap, taking into account factors such as price, product range, quality, service levels 
and ancillary benefits. Please comment on any suppliers you consider particularly 
vigorous or effective competitors to NAB and/or Citi in each product area.  
4. For customers of NAB or Citi, please describe how you would respond if, post-
acquisition, NAB increased prices or decreased its service offering in each area of 
overlap. What competition is NAB, post-acquisition, likely to face in each area of 
overlap? 
5. Please comment on how you expect any industry developments in the next 3 to 5 years 
to impact competition in the supply of each area of overlap. Consider factors such as the 
role of digital disruption, the presence and/or growth of buy now pay later services and 
changes to regulation. 
6. For retail suppliers of credit card services: 
a. If you acquire white label credit card services funded by a financial institution, 
provide details of your arrangements, such as who you acquire these services 
from, and explain your reasons for using these services, rather than self-funding 
or self-supplying credit card services. 
b. If you self-fund or self-supply credit card services (that is, you do not acquire 
white label credit card services), provide details of your arrangements, and 
explain your reasons for self-funding or self-supplying rather than using white 
label card services. 


c. Explain how easy or difficult it would be for customers of white label credit card 
services to switch completely to self-supply credit card services, and the costs 
and timeframes involved. Provide specific examples where possible. 
New entry 
7. Please describe the steps required to enter and/or expand in each area of overlap and 
become profitable. Where possible, please comment on the time and costs to build a 
digital banking platform, obtain a banking licence and build a brand to attract customers. 
If known, provide examples of recent entry or expansion or any potential new entry or 
expansion in each area of overlap. 
8. Please comment on the effects of economies of scale, for example having a larger 
customer base, in each area of overlap, and the minimum efficient scale of market entry.  
Other  
9. 
Please provide any additional information or comments, or identify other competition issues, 
that you consider relevant to the ACCC’s consideration of the proposed acquisition under 
section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. 
