 
 
1 
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
tel: (02) 6243 1368
mergers@accc.gov.au
www.accc.gov.au
Our ref: 
IM-70050 / IM-70129 
Contact officer: 
Georgia Zele / Stella Leung 
Contact phone: 
02 9230 9103 / 03 9658 6444 
22 February 2019 
Dear Interested Party 
Re:  Request for submissions: IPH Limited’s proposed acquisition of Xenith IP 
Group Limited or QANTM Intellectual Property Limited 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
the proposed acquisition of Xenith IP Group Limited (Xenith) or in the alternative QANTM 
Intellectual Property Limited (QANTM) by IPH Limited (IPH) (the proposed acquisition). 
We are also seeking your views on IPH’s acquisition of a 19.9 per cent interest in Xenith 
(the completed acquisition).  
IPH, Xenith and QANTM provide Australian and international clients with services 
associated with the registration, protection, commercialisation, enforcement and 
management of intellectual property (IP) rights. Further details regarding the completed 
acquisition and each alternative proposed acquisition can be found at Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact on competition in the supply of services 
relating to Australian IP rights including patents, trade marks, designs and plant breeder’s 
rights (Australian IP services). In particular, we are seeking your views on: 
 
the extent of competition among IPH, Xenith and QANTM 
 
the likely impact of the proposed acquisition on prices and quality of Australian IP 
related services 
 
the extent of future competitive constraints (such as other competitors or new 
entrant competitors) for the supply of Australian IP related services.  
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 


 
 
2 
Please provide your response by no later than 5pm on 15 March 2019. Responses may 
be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: Submission re: IPH/Xenith/QANTM - 
attention Georgia Zele/Stella Leung. If you would like to arrange a time to discuss the 
matter with ACCC officers, or have any questions about this letter, please contact Georgia 
Zele on 02 9230 9103 or Stella Leung on 03 9658 6444. 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public 
Mergers Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We will not 
disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by 
law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or during court proceedings) or 
in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010.  Where the 
ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, the ACCC will notify you in advance 
where possible so that you may have an opportunity to be heard.  Therefore, if the 
information provided to the ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our 
Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
Tom Leuner 
General Manager 
Merger Investigations 


 
 
3 
Attachment A 
IPH Limited 
IPH is a publicly listed (ASX: IPH) holding company of a group of businesses that 
operates in Australia, New Zealand and South-East Asia to provide IP related 
services to Australian and international clients. These services relate to the creation, 
protection, commercialisation, enforcement and management of IP rights. 
The IPH group includes the following businesses: 
 
Spruson & Ferguson – provides services relating to patents, trade marks and 
registered designs. It also provides IP related legal services through an 
associated firm in Australia. It operates in Australia and across South-East Asia.  
 
Pizzeys – provides services relating to patents, trade marks and designs. It 
operates in Australia and Singapore. 
 
AJ Park – provides services relating to patents, trade marks and registered 
designs. It also provides IP related legal services through an associated firm. AJ 
Park operates in New Zealand.  
Xenith IP Group Limited 
Xenith is a publicly listed (ASX:XIP) holding company of a group of businesses that 
operates in Australia and New Zealand to provide IP related services to Australian 
and international clients. These services relate to the creation, protection, 
commercialisation, enforcement and management of IP rights and also include a set 
of complementary advisory services.  
Xenith’s businesses include: 
 
Griffith Hack – provides services relating to patents, trade marks, registered 
designs and other IP rights. It also provides IP related legal services through 
an associated firm.  
 
Shelston IP – provides services relating to patents, trade marks, registered 
designs and other IP rights. It also provides IP related legal services through 
an associated firm. 
 
Watermark – provides services relating to patents, trade marks, registered 
design and other IP rights. It also provides IP related legal services through 
an associated firm. 
 
Glasshouse Advisory – provides complementary services relating to IP rights, 
including intangible asset valuation, IP analytics, IP strategy development and 
innovation incentives such as research and development tax rebates and 
export market development grants.  
QANTM Intellectual Property Limited 
QANTM is a publicly listed (ASX:QIP) holding company of a group of businesses that 
provides IP related services to Australian and international clients. These services 
primarily relate to the creation, protection, commercialisation, enforcement and 
management of IP rights.  
The QANTM group operates in Australia, New Zealand and the South-East Asia 
region and includes the following businesses:  
 
Davies Collison Cave – provides services relating to patents, trade marks, 
registered designs and other IP rights. It operates in Australia, New Zealand and 
Singapore. It also provides IP related legal services in Australia through an 


 
 
4 
associated firm. 
 
FPA Patent Attorneys – provides services relating to patents, registered designs 
and other IP rights. It operates in Australia and Singapore. 
 
Advanz Fidelis IP – provides IP services including IP related legal services in 
Malaysia.  
The completed acquisition 
On 13 February 2019 IPH announced it had acquired a 19.9 per cent holding in 
Xenith. The ACCC is assessing IPH’s acquisition of a 19.9 per cent stake in Xenith 
under section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act.  
The proposed acquisition  
On 13 February 2019 IPH announced it intends to vote its shares in Xenith against 
the proposed merger of QANTM and Xenith and intends to enter into discussions 
with Xenith and/or QANTM regarding a combination of either the Xenith or QANTM 
businesses (as alternatives) with IPH.   
The proposed merger of QANTM and Xenith 
The ACCC is currently separately assessing the proposed merger of QANTM and 
Xenith (not involving IPH). Further information is on the ACCC’s public mergers 
register.  
 


 
 
5 
Attachment B 
Overall, the ACCC is interested in receiving feedback about the likely impact of each 
alternative proposed acquisition on competition for the provision of Australian IP 
related services in relation to patents, trade marks, designs and plant breeder’s 
rights, whether to Australian or international customers.  
Specific questions you can address in your submission are listed below. 
1. Please provide a brief description of your business or organisation.  
2. Please outline the reasons for your interest in the proposed acquisition, including 
any commercial relationships with IPH, Xenith or QANTM. 
Relevant market(s) 
3. IPH, Xenith and QANTM overlap in the supply of Australian IP related services. 
Please describe your organisation’s purchase of these services. The ACCC 
would appreciate receiving information about the specific types of services you 
use, whether they relate to patents, trade marks, designs or plant breeder’s rights 
(and any other services you consider relevant), how you source these services, 
how you utilise the services and the cost of the services purchased. 
4. If possible, please provide market share estimates for the supply of Australian IP 
related services, separately for patents, trade marks, designs and plant breeder’s 
rights and any other markets you consider relevant to the ACCC’s assessment.  
Competitive dynamics 
5. Please discuss the extent of competition among IPH, Xenith and QANTM, in the 
supply of Australian IP services.  
6. Please identify and describe other suppliers of Australian IP related services, 
including the extent to which they compete with IPH, Xenith and QANTM. 
7. Please discuss the likelihood of new entry occurring in the supply of Australian IP 
related services. In your response, please consider the likely timeframe for 
market entry and provide details about barriers to entry, such as: 
a. establishing brand and reputation, as well as growing a client base 
b. restrictions or barriers to individual IP professionals or attorneys switching 
firms or establishing growing firms 
c. whether there is any significance to scale in this industry (i.e. whether 
large firms have any advantages over smaller firms) 
d. any regulatory barriers 
e. exclusive/long-term client contracts 
f. examples of recent market entry and exit. 
8. Please discuss the extent to which there are significant clients with the ability to 
bypass supply from the merged firm by internal supply of Australian IP related 
services or sponsoring a new entrant, for example through a long-term contract.  
9. Please discuss the extent to which firms outside Australia, in particular firms in 
New Zealand, may compete for the supply of Australian IP related services, and 


 
 
6 
whether their ability to compete differ depending on the types of IP rights 
involved.   
Other information or competition issues 
10. Please provide any additional information or comments, or identify other 
competition issues, that you consider relevant to the ACCC’s consideration of 
each alternative proposed acquisition under section 50 of the Act.  
