 
Our ref: 
IM-72998  
 
 
 
31 July 2025 
 
Dear Interested Party 
ACCC seeking your views: CAR Group’s proposed acquisition of Machines4U 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
CAR Group Limited (CAR Group)’s proposed acquisition of 100% of the shares in Mojo 
Holdco Pty Ltd, the holding company for Machines4U (together, Machines4U) (the Proposed 
Acquisition). 
 
CAR Group and Machines4U both supply online listings services to both buyers and sellers 
of new and used industrial machinery, and online display advertising services in Australia. 
Further details are provided at Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact of the Proposed Acquisition on 
competition in Australia. In particular, we are seeking your views on: 
• 
how closely CAR Group and Machines4U compete in the supply of online listings 
services for industrial machinery 
• 
the extent to which alternative suppliers of online listings services for industrial 
machinery would competitively constrain the merged entity  
• 
the likely impact of the Proposed Acquisition on prices and quality of online listings 
services for industrial machinery 
• 
the likely impact of CAR Group’s increased online presence on the market for online 
display advertising services in Australia. 
Further issues you may wish to address are set out at Attachment B. 
This matter is public, and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested.  
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the Proposed Acquisition is in section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market.  
Please provide your response by 5pm on 14 August 2025 via email to mergers@accc.gov.au 
with the title: Submission re: CAR Group – Machines4U. If you require more time to respond, 
please let us know.  


If you would like to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any questions about this 
letter, please contact mergers@accc.gov.au.  
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public Mergers 
Register at (ACCC mergers register).  
 
Yours sincerely  
 
Daniel McCracken-Hewson 
General Manager 
Merger Assessments 
 
 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the Proposed Acquisition. We will not 
disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) unless 
compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or during court 
proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the CCA. Where the ACCC is required to 
disclose confidential information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where possible so 
that you may have an opportunity to be heard. Therefore, if the information provided to 
the ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 


Attachment A 
 
The acquirer – CAR Group 
CAR Group is an ASX-listed (ASX:CAR) online listings company operating in Australia, the 
United States, South Korea, Chile and Brazil.  
In Australia, CAR Group’s business is focused on carsales.com.au, an online listings portal 
for new and used cars. Relevant to the Proposed Acquisition, CAR Group also operates 
online listings portals for new and used industrial machinery through 
constructionsales.com.au, farmmachinerysales.com.au and trucksales.com.au.  
The target – Machines4U 
Machines4U is an Australian online listings portal specialising in new and used industrial 
machinery, which operates machines4u.com.au.   
The Proposed Acquisition 
CAR Group, through its wholly-owned subsidiary, carsales.com.au Pty Ltd, proposes to 
acquire 100% of the shares in Mojo Holdco Pty Ltd, which is the holding company of 
Machines4U. 
Industry background 
Industrial machinery encompasses a wide range of machines and related equipment used 
for industrial applications, including mining, construction and farming.  
Industrial machinery is typically used for commercial purposes and often requires 
specialised skills and knowledge to operate, including some equipment requiring licences. 
As a result, the purchase and sale of new and used industrial machinery generally involves 
business-to-business transactions.  
Sellers of industrial machinery (i.e. dealers and private sellers) may choose to list products 
for sale on online listings portals specialising in industrial machinery, general online 
marketplaces or auction businesses that offer industrial machinery. We understand a large 
proportion of listings are posted by dealers. A seller’s choice of sales method may be 
influenced by factors including the size of the buyer audience accessible through a particular 
channel, fee model and selling costs and convenience.  
 
Similarly, buyers of industrial machinery (i.e. private buyers and dealers) can search for 
industrial machinery for sale through various platforms. We understand, buyers of industrial 
machinery may also use multiple online listings portals simultaneously in order to search for 
and compare similar items. 
 
 
 


Attachment B 
1. 
Provide a brief description of your business or organisation. 
2. 
Outline the reasons for your interest in the Proposed Acquisition, including any 
commercial relationship(s) with CAR Group and/or Machines4U.  
Online listings services for industrial machinery 
3. 
How closely do CAR Group and Machines4U compete in the supply of online listings 
services for industrial machinery in Australia, taking into account factors such as: 
a. price, including fee model and any volume discounts,  
b. quality, including factors such as the type and range of industrial machinery 
and number of potential buyers, and 
c. reputation. 
4. 
Identify and describe the main competitors of CAR Group and Machines4U in the supply 
of online listings services for industrial machinery.  
5. 
Discuss the extent to which the following businesses provide a competitive constraint 
on online listings portals specialising in industrial machinery, such as CAR Group and 
Machines4U: 
a. online listings portals affiliated with trade magazines or newsletters relating 
to industrial machinery e.g. Prime Creative Media’s or Sandhills Global’s 
online listings portals such as arborage.com.au, australianmining.com.au, 
bigrigs.com.au, cranesandlifting.com.au, tradeearthmovers.com.au, 
tradefarmmachinery.com.au, machinerytrader.com.au,  tractorhouse.com.au 
etc. 
b. online marketplaces e.g. Facebook, Gumtree, eBay, Trading Post 
c. online auction businesses, including those that have developed online listings 
portal as part of their auction website e.g. Ritchie Brothers, Grays, Pickles 
d. independent dealers’ or original equipment manufacturers’ websites. 
6. 
Describe factors (for example, number of potential buyers, listing fees, search 
functionality) that are important to sellers in deciding which platforms to list industrial 
machinery on.  
7. 
Explain whether sellers list the same industrial machinery on multiple platforms, and 
reasons why or why not. 
8. 
Discuss the likelihood of, and timeframe for, new entry or expansion in the supply of 
online listing services for industrial machinery, including any barriers to entry.  
9. 
In deciding which online listings platforms to list industrial machinery on, explain 
whether sellers are typically influenced by where the product is physically located and 
intended to be sold (e.g. within a specific State or Territory). Discuss any limitations or 
practical considerations (e.g. transport logistics, demand patterns, inspection or 
regulatory requirements) that may influence sellers’ choice of online listings platform. 


10. For potential buyers of industrial machinery who use online listings platforms, please 
identify:  
a. which platforms you search for industrial machinery on, including whether 
you search on multiple listings platforms 
b. factors (for example, range, quantity and quality of industrial machinery 
available, amount of information available about machinery, platform ease of 
use, particular functionality offered on a platform (e.g. auctions)) that are 
important when deciding which platforms to search on, and 
c. whether you tend to search for industrial machinery within your State or 
Territory or search for machinery across Australia. Discuss any limitations 
(e.g. transport costs, inspection or regulatory requirements etc.) that may 
affect your ability or willingness to purchase machinery located in another 
State or Territory. 
Online display advertising services 
11. Please identify the channels you use for advertising (e.g. online listings portals, social 
media etc.). If you advertise on CAR Group and/or Machines4U websites, please identify 
the specific websites on which you acquire display advertising space.   
a. If possible, provide the share of your display advertising spend allocated to 
CAR Group and Machines4U vs other channels.  
b. Alternatively, please note if CAR Group and Machines4U represent a 
significant portion of your display advertising spend. 
12. What (if anything) distinguishes the display advertising services offered by CAR Group 
and Machines4U’s platforms from services offered by other advertising channels 
including, online advertising platforms? 
Additional information  
13. Please provide any additional information or comments that you consider relevant to the 
ACCC’s consideration of the Proposed Acquisition. 
 
