Page 1 of 11 
 
Statement of Issues 
20 July 2023 
 Coles Group Limited – proposed acquisition of two fresh 
milk processing facilities from Saputo Dairy Australia Pty 
Ltd 
Purpose 
1. 
Coles Group Limited (Coles) proposes to acquire two fresh milk processing 
facilities in Laverton North (Victoria) and Erskine Park (New South Wales) from 
Saputo Dairy Australia Pty Ltd (Saputo). 
2. 
This Statement of Issues: 
• 
gives the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission’s (ACCC) 
preliminary views on competition issues arising from the proposed 
acquisition,  
• 
identifies areas of further inquiry, and 
• 
invites interested parties to submit comments and information to assist our 
assessment of the issues. 
3. 
Statements of Issues do not refer to confidential information provided by the 
parties or other market participants and therefore may not fully articulate the 
ACCC’s preliminary position. 
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views 
4. 
In considering the proposed acquisition, the ACCC applies the legal test set out 
in section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the CCA). In general 
terms, section 50 prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to 
have the effect, of substantially lessening competition in any market. 
5. 
The ACCC divides its preliminary views into three categories, 'issues of concern', 
'issues that may raise concerns' and ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’. In this 
Statement of Issues there are 2 “issues that may raise concerns” and 1 “issue 
unlikely to raise concerns”.  


Coles Group Limited – proposed acquisition of two fresh milk processing facilities from 
Saputo Dairy Australia Pty Ltd 
Page 2 of 11 
Issues that may raise concerns 
• 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition may lead to 
Saputo exiting market/s for the acquisition of raw milk in NSW, therefore 
substantially lessening competition for the acquisition of raw milk in these 
market/s. 
• 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition may 
substantially lessen competition by giving Coles the incentive and ability to 
foreclosure or frustrate competitors at various levels of the dairy supply 
chain. 
Issues unlikely to raise concerns 
• 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to 
substantially lessen competition for the acquisition of raw milk in market/s 
within Victoria. 
Making a submission 
6. 
The ACCC invites submissions from interested parties, particularly on the 
following key issues: 
• 
Alternative acquirers of raw milk in NSW and how they compare to Coles 
and Saputo in relation to their geographic areas of operation, price and 
terms offered, and volumes acquired. 
• 
The ability of Coles to leverage its position in the dairy supply chain, and 
how this will change as a result of the acquisition. 
7. 
Interested parties should provide submissions by 5pm on 3 August 2023. 
Responses may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: Submission 
re: Coles/Saputo processing facilities - attention Nicholas Wellfare. If you would 
like to discuss the matter with ACCC staff or have any questions about this 
Statement of Issues, please contact Nicholas Wellfare on 02 9230 3813.  
8. 
The ACCC anticipates making a final decision on 14 September 2023, however, 
this timeline can change. To keep up with possible timing changes and to find 
relevant documents, interested parties should visit the Mergers Register on the 
ACCC's website at www.accc.gov.au/publicregisters/mergers-registers/public-
informal-merger-reviews. 
Confidentiality of submissions 
9. 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We 
will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) 
unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation 
or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the CCA. Where 
the ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, the ACCC will notify 
you in advance where possible so that you may have an opportunity to be heard. 
Therefore, please identify any confidential information that is provided to the 
ACCC. Our Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more 
information on confidentiality. 


Coles Group Limited – proposed acquisition of two fresh milk processing facilities from 
Saputo Dairy Australia Pty Ltd 
Page 3 of 11 
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’ 
10. 
A Statement of Issues is not a final decision about a proposed acquisition. A 
Statement of Issues outlines the ACCC’s preliminary views and identifies further 
lines of inquiry. 
11. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 
The parties 
Coles 
12. 
Coles is a major supermarket chain and one of Australia’s largest grocery and 
general merchandise retailers. Coles supplies branded and own brand fresh milk 
products at the retail level though its supermarkets. Coles is the distributor for its 
own brand fresh milk to Coles stores, produced under arrangements with 
producers including Saputo. Coles does not currently own or operate any dairy 
processing facilities.  
13. 
In NSW and Victoria, the raw milk that Coles acquires from dairy farmers is 
processed through Saputo’s processing facilities at Laverton and Erskine Park. 
Coles entered into an agreement to produce milk at these sites with Murray 
Goulburn in 2013. 
Saputo 
14. 
Saputo is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Canadian based dairy product company 
Saputo Inc. Saputo is one of the largest dairy processors in Australia with 10 
manufacturing facilities, including the Laverton and Erskine Park facilities that 
are being acquired by Coles. Saputo produces and wholesales a wide range of 
dairy products for the domestic market including fresh drinking milk, cheese, 
extended shelf-life milk and cream products, cultured products and dairy 
ingredients. Saputo products are sold under brands including Cheer, Devondale 
and Sungold 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Coles Group Limited – proposed acquisition of two fresh milk processing facilities from 
Saputo Dairy Australia Pty Ltd 
Page 4 of 11 
Figure 1: Map of Saputo processing facilities 
 
15. 
Saputo acquired the Laverton and Erskine Park facilities as part of its 2018 
acquisition of Murray Goulburn’s assets. The facilities are state of the art, highly 
automated and were purpose built by Murray Goulburn to process Coles’ private 
label milk with an initial contract entered into with Coles for a ten year period. 
Coles’ private label milk production accounts for the majority of milk processed at 
this facility. 
The proposed transaction 
16. 
Coles proposes to acquire Saputo’s fresh milk processing facilities in Laverton 
North (Victoria) and Erskine Park (New South Wales). 
17. 
The transaction does not include Saputo’s raw milk supply contracts associated 
with these plants. The contracts Saputo holds with New South Wales (NSW) and 
Victorian dairy farmers are being retained by Saputo on current contractual 
terms. These contracts vary in length but are typically for one to two years. As 
part of the transaction, Saputo will enter a tolling arrangement with Coles 
meaning that Saputo’s raw milk collected in NSW and Victoria will be processed 
by Coles at the plants in Laverton and Erskine Park. Saputo will continue to sell 
its branded drinking milk produced from raw milk collected in Victoria and NSW. 


Coles Group Limited – proposed acquisition of two fresh milk processing facilities from 
Saputo Dairy Australia Pty Ltd 
Page 5 of 11 
Industry background 
Farmgate 
18. 
Raw milk is produced at over 4,000 farms across Australia. Total milk production 
has been steadily declining over the last 10-15 years, along with a corresponding 
decline in the number of dairy farms and a move towards larger farming 
operations. 
19. 
Farmers supply raw milk to processors (e.g. Saputo) and retailers that have 
entered toll processing arrangements with processors.1 This raw milk is supplied 
under milk supply arrangements that must comply with the Dairy Code of 
Conduct, a mandatory industry code enforced by the ACCC. This Dairy Code of 
Conduct applies to the purchaser of the raw milk, so can apply equally to 
processors, supermarkets or milk aggregators. The price paid to farmers is 
individually negotiated and based on the milkfat and protein content of their milk 
but varies by purchaser and region. 
Processors and wholesale 
20. 
Processors collect raw milk from farmers and process it into fresh milk (and other 
dairy products). Most processors are also wholesalers, supplying fresh milk 
under their own proprietary brands to a variety of retailers including 
supermarkets (e.g. Saputo’s Devondale brand) – referred to as branded milk. 
Processors also process milk for retailers’ own brand products (e.g. Saputo for 
Coles) – referred to as private label milk – and for a small number of wholesalers 
without processing facilities (e.g. businesses that contract Saputo to supply 
branded milk). 
21. 
The major processors present in NSW are Saputo, Bega, Lactalis, a22, and 
Norco. In Victoria major processors include Saputo, Lactalis, Bega, and 
Fonterra3. 
Retail 
22. 
Processors and wholesalers supply fresh milk products to a variety of retailers 
including supermarkets. The ACCC’s 2017 Dairy Inquiry found that 
supermarkets generally have significant bargaining power in their dealings with 
processors. 
 
 
1 A toll processing arrangement in this circumstance refers to an agreement between a retailer and a 
processor whereby a processor is engaged to process the retailer’s raw milk into a dairy product, 
typically private label. 
2 a2 sells a differentiated fresh milk product without the A1 protein that most fresh milk products 
contain. 
3 These processors are listed together for ease of reference, although the ACCC notes that the geographic 
dimension of markets for the acquisition of raw milk are regional, not state based. 


Coles Group Limited – proposed acquisition of two fresh milk processing facilities from 
Saputo Dairy Australia Pty Ltd 
Page 6 of 11 
Issue that may raise concern: reduction in competition for 
the acquisition of raw milk in market/s in NSW 
23. 
Significant concerns have been raised that the acquisition will remove the longer 
term incentive for Saputo to continue to acquire raw milk in NSW and that this 
will reduce the number of buyers dairy farmers are able to negotiate with for the 
sale of their raw milk. 
24. 
The ACCC is concerned that the sale of these processing assets means that 
Saputo would no longer own any raw milk processing assets in NSW. 
Accordingly, in the medium term, this creates uncertainty about Saputo’s 
continued acquisition of raw milk in NSW and whether it will refocus its raw milk 
acquisition to increase throughput in its processing facilities in Victoria. In 
support of this concern, the ACCC notes Saputo’s public comments regarding its 
“Global Strategic Plan”, its closure of other operations in Australia, and the 
decision to sell these state of the art facilities. Combined, these factors appear to 
indicate Saputo’s commitment to streamline and consolidate its operations and 
lend support to the concerns that Saputo may eventually look to exit raw milk 
collection and processing in NSW. The ACCC is reviewing the arrangement 
between Coles and Saputo to better understand whether Saputo has a long term 
commitment to process raw milk in NSW. 
25. 
Should the acquisition lead to Saputo exiting raw milk acquisition across NSW, 
the ACCC acknowledges that the geographic dimension of raw milk markets is 
not bounded by state borders, but instead is influenced by the location of 
processing facilities and the distance that raw milk can be transported. As a 
result, there are often multiple markets within a state. In relation to geographic 
market dimension, the ACCC’s Dairy inquiry found that: 
• 
Approximately 80 per cent of processors’ raw milk purchases come from 
farms located within 150km of the processing plant, and 
• 
In excess of 95 per cent of raw milk is acquired from farms within 300km 
of the processing plant.4 
26. 
Given the fact that NSW has numerous markets for the acquisition of raw milk, 
any exit of Saputo from NSW is likely to have differing levels of impact on 
competition within the different markets in NSW. The ACCC has not yet reached 
a definitive view on the relevant geographic scope of the raw milk acquisition 
markets in NSW. However, our initial investigations indicate that the competitive 
impact of any exit from NSW by Saputo would likely be felt most strongly by 
farmers closer to the Erskine Park facility in the Central NSW region. 
27. 
If the acquisition does lead to Saputo either exiting the production of fresh 
drinking milk completely or alternatively significantly reducing it volumes, the 
ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition may substantially 
lessen competition for the acquisition of raw milk in parts of NSW, in particular 
the Central NSW region. Although Saputo is retaining its existing raw milk supply 
 
 
4 ACCC Dairy Inquiry, Final Report, April 2018, p 68 


Coles Group Limited – proposed acquisition of two fresh milk processing facilities from 
Saputo Dairy Australia Pty Ltd 
Page 7 of 11 
contracts with farmers, it is currently unclear what Saputo’s long term plans are 
in NSW once its current milk contracts expire.5 
28. 
Market feedback indicates that in these regions, apart from Saputo, the only 
major purchasers of raw milk are Coles and Bega. However, feedback also 
indicates that for a number of reasons, Bega is not considered a competitive 
alternative for raw milk acquisition when compared to Saputo and Coles. As a 
result, farmers in these regions raised strong concerns that, if Saputo were to 
exit NSW, they would only be left with Coles as the only viable purchaser of raw 
milk. The ACCC will continue to look closely at which processors are acquiring 
raw milk in NSW, in what volumes, what geographic regions, and at what price. 
29. 
Concerns were also raised that Coles preferences larger volume farms, and 
accordingly its pricing offers are not as readily available to smaller farms. 
Therefore, there is strong concern that the impact on competition will 
disproportionately affect smaller farms in these regions of NSW who will have 
limited/no buyers if Saputo ceases to purchase raw milk. Farmers submit that 
Saputo is an important driver of price competition for raw milk for smaller farms. 
30. 
Separately, the ACCC is also considering whether, in the event Saputo 
continues to acquire raw milk in NSW whether it will have long term security in 
relation to access to processing facilities. In particular, the ACCC is exploring 
whether following the sale of its Erskine Park facility it will be at risk of 
foreclosure and/or frustration of access to other processing facilities. If Saputo 
cannot gain access to facilities in NSW on commercially viable terms, it appears 
likely that it would decide to exit raw milk acquisition in NSW. 
31. 
These concerns are being considered within the context of the total processing 
capacity at the Erskine Park facility, and whether it would be in Coles’ 
commercial interest to no longer continue to provide access to Saputo and, if it 
did, what it would mean for Coles has to lose Saputo’s volumes. 
ACCC’s preliminary views 
32. 
In summary, the ACCC is concerned that: 
• 
Saputo may exit the acquisition and processing of raw milk in NSW 
leading to a reduction in competition for the acquisition of raw milk in 
market/s within NSW, and in particular Central NSW; and 
• 
Even if Saputo intends to continue acquiring and processing raw milk in 
NSW, Coles may foreclose or frustrate Saputo through increasing 
processing prices or changing the terms offered. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to the 
acquisition and processing of raw milk in regions of NSW.  In particular market 
participants may wish to comment on the following: 
 
 
5 If Saputo were to exit raw milk acquisition and processing in NSW, it is possible that it would continue 
to sell its drinking milk in NSW as depending on transport costs and shelf life it may still be possible to 
successfully transport processed drinking milk from other states. 


Coles Group Limited – proposed acquisition of two fresh milk processing facilities from 
Saputo Dairy Australia Pty Ltd 
Page 8 of 11 
• 
Alternative acquirers of raw milk in NSW and whether they provide a viable 
alternative, including in terms of pricing (including seasonal versus flat production 
incentives) and milk volumes. 
• 
If Saputo were to continue to acquire raw milk in NSW what effect would the 
proposed acquisition having on the acquisition of raw milk in NSW. 
• 
If Saputo ceased processing raw milk in NSW, could it continue to acquire raw milk 
in NSW and transport this to its facilities in Victoria? Would this make commercial 
sense? 
• 
How would Coles fill excess capacity at Erskine Park if it were to foreclose Saputo. 
• 
Absent the proposed acquisition, how will raw milk production and processing in 
NSW evolve over the next 5 years. 
Issue that may raise concerns: foreclosure/frustration of 
competitors at various levels of the dairy supply chain 
33. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that by Coles vertically integrating and taking 
ownership of processing facilities, the proposed acquisition may substantially 
lessen competition by enabling Coles to foreclose or frustrate competitors at 
various levels of the dairy supply chain. Following the acquisition, Coles may 
have the ability and incentive to consolidate its raw milk processing in NSW at 
Erskine Park and ship raw milk from other areas to increase throughput. This 
may: 
• 
Increase Coles’ bargaining power with other processors when negotiating 
Coles’ private label milk contracts in other states of Australia, and in its 
bargaining for other processors branded dairy products; and/or 
• 
Impact on the competitive viability of other processors, by reducing the 
supply of available private label milk contracts. 
Increased bargaining power 
34. 
Strong concerns have been raised in market feedback that the proposed 
acquisition may significantly increase Coles’ bargaining power in its negotiations 
with dairy processors for private label milk contracts in other states. The 
acquisition would do this by increasing the information available to Coles 
regarding the cost of production of white drinking milk. Market participants have 
submitted that this acquisition will provide it with information above and beyond 
what Coles is already privy to through its existing agreements, which, as found in 
the ACCC’s Dairy Inquiry, can be extensive. Market participants have submitted 
that the depth of information gained through owning and operating the facility will 
be greater than that acquired through Coles simply being party to a private label 
or toll processing agreement. 
35. 
The ACCC is concerned that Coles may be able to use this information in its 
negotiations with other dairy processors in other states and significantly reduce 
processors margins by reducing the amount Coles is willing to pay for third 
parties to process raw milk. 


Coles Group Limited – proposed acquisition of two fresh milk processing facilities from 
Saputo Dairy Australia Pty Ltd 
Page 9 of 11 
36. 
Any reduction in processors margins may lead to a substantial reduction in 
profits available in the industry and as a result may lead to lower investment in 
processing facilities and innovation with new dairy products, thus reducing 
competitive outcomes for consumers. 
37. 
Strong concerns have also been raised that further squeezed margins at the 
processor level could lead to processors exiting the acquisition of raw milk for 
drinking milk, which could lead to lower farmgate milk prices, particularly in NSW 
and/or Queensland. Industry participants expressed strong concerns about the 
long term impact that this acquisition will have on the viability of the dairy 
industry. 
38. 
The ACCC is continuing to consider if the proposed acquisition results in any 
change to the amount of information Coles currently receives as a result of its 
agreement with Saputo. 
Competitive viability of other processors 
39. 
The proposed acquisition may give Coles the ability and incentive to process 
less of its private label milk at other processors’ facilities in NSW and 
Queensland. 
40. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that following the proposed acquisition Coles 
may have the ability to process more of its private label milk at Erskine Park and 
Laverton given the capacity at these facilities. The ACCC also considers that 
Coles may have the incentive to consolidate the processing of its private label 
white drinking milk at Laverton and Erskine Park as they are newly constructed 
relative to other processing plants, and therefore are likely have a much lower 
marginal production cost than the facilities of many other processors. 
41. 
In addition to the marginal production savings, it has been submitted to the 
ACCC that Coles would likely find cost savings in sourcing raw milk from lower 
cost milk production areas and transporting it to Erskine Park and Laverton. The 
ACCC has heard strong concerns regarding consolidation at Erskine Park in 
particular, given the significant cost differential between raw milk prices in 
northern NSW and Queensland versus Victoria. However, the ACCC 
understands that any savings in raw milk acquisition costs would have to be 
balanced against the additional costs of transport. 
42. 
If Coles were to consolidate its processing to Erskine Park and Laverton and 
source the additional raw milk from low cost regions, then this would likely result 
in reduced raw milk volumes needing to be acquired in Queensland and 
Northern NSW. The lower volume of milk required by Coles in these regions 
would likely significantly impact the competitiveness and ongoing viability of 
processors in these regions if they are unable to negotiate alternative supply 
contracts. It may also reduce the number of processors competing for raw milk in 
Northern NSW / Queensland, and accordingly push down the price of raw milk in 
these regions. 
43. 
Further, the consolidation of private label milk contracts to Coles’ owned facilities 
may impact on the operations of competing processors. Strong concerns have 
been raised that it will result in less of a reliance from Coles on third party 
processors for a large amount of its private label white drinking milk. As a result, 
the ACCC has heard that processors will have less bargaining power in wider 
negotiations with Coles, particularly in relation to the retail price of private label 


Coles Group Limited – proposed acquisition of two fresh milk processing facilities from 
Saputo Dairy Australia Pty Ltd 
Page 10 of 11 
and branded goods, which may lead to reduced margins for these processors 
and damage their ongoing viability. The market is particularly concerned about 
the potential for further retail price reductions, particularly given the widely held 
belief that the acquisition of these facilities will result in cost savings to Coles due 
to the integration of the facilities into Coles’ business. Strong concerns have 
been raised that any cost savings realised by Coles will be reflected in a reduced 
retail price for private label milk, which will in turn reduce the retail price and 
margins of branded milk, and impact on the viability of competing processors. 
44. 
In completing its further assessment, the ACCC will look closely at what the 
proposed acquisition changes, particularly in relation to Coles’ incentives and 
ability, noting that even absent the acquisition at the completion of existing 
private label contracts Coles may have the ability to reconfigure and consolidate 
its production. 
ACCC’s preliminary views 
45. 
In summary, the ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition may: 
• 
Increase Coles’ bargaining power with other processors for Coles private 
label milk contracts in other states of Australia, and in its bargaining for 
other processors branded dairy products; and/or 
• 
Impact on the competitive viability of other processors, by reducing the 
supply of available private label milk contracts. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation 
Coles’ ability to foreclose competitors at various levels of the dairy supply chain.  In 
particular market participants may wish to comment on the following: 
• 
The information that Coles will acquire as a result of the proposed acquisition and 
how this compares to the information it currently receives under its agreements 
with Saputo and other processors. 
• 
How Coles can use any further information it received as a result of the proposed 
acquisition to increase its bargaining power with other processors, and how this 
differs from the negotiations that occur now. 
• 
Whether Coles would have the ability and incentive to consolidate its white drinking 
milk processing at Erskine Park and Laverton. And in particular whether there are 
any significant barriers or risks to increasing the geographic breadth of the raw milk 
supply chain. 
• 
If Coles were to move all of its white drinking milk processing from Queensland 
and Northern NSW, what impact would this have on farmers and processors in this 
region. 
• 
Any alternatives options for processors in Queensland and Northern NSW to 
produce products other than drinking milk in order to fill available capacity if Coles 
were to consolidate the processing of its white drinking milk in Erskine Park and 
Laverton. 


Coles Group Limited – proposed acquisition of two fresh milk processing facilities from 
Saputo Dairy Australia Pty Ltd 
Page 11 of 11 
Issue unlikely to raise concerns: the acquisition of raw 
milk in Victoria 
46. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to 
result in a substantial lessening of competition in the acquisition of raw milk in 
Victoria. 
47. 
The ACCC considers that there are a number of alternative acquirers of raw milk 
in Victoria that provide an alternative to Coles and Saputo. The ACCC also 
considers that the sale of the Laverton facility is unlikely to affect Saputo’s 
ongoing presence in the acquisition of raw milk in Victoria, given it will continue 
to operate a number of other facilities there. 
ACCC's future steps 
48. 
As noted above, the ACCC invites submissions from market participants on each 
of the issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that 
may be relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. Submissions should 
be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au by no later than 3 August 2023. 
49. 
The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
50. 
The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 14 September 2023. 
However the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment explaining the 
ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's public announcement. 
