 
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
tel: (02) 6243 1368 
mergers@accc.gov.au
www.accc.gov.au
Our ref:  
IM-72199 
 
 
Contact officer:  
Caylie McDonald / Eado Varon 
 
Contact phone:  
(03) 9290 1470 / (03) 9910 9415 
 
2 May 2023 
Dear Interested Party 
Re:  Request for submissions: Coles’ proposed acquisition of fresh milk 
processing facilities from Saputo 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
Coles Group Limited’s (Coles) proposed acquisition of two fresh milk processing facilities 
from Saputo Dairy Australia Pty Ltd (Saputo) (the proposed acquisition). Further details 
are provided at Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact of the proposed acquisition on 
competition. In particular, we are seeking your views on: 
• 
the impact on prices or terms of supply farmers receive for their raw milk in New 
South Wales and Victoria 
• 
the impact on prices for fresh milk processing services in New South Wales and 
Victoria 
• 
whether the proposed acquisition is likely to give Coles the ability and/or incentive to 
foreclose other dairy processors, wholesalers or retailers. 
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
Please provide your response by 23 May 2023 via email with the title: Submission re: 
Coles/Saputo processing facilities - attention Caylie McDonald/Eado Varon. If you require 
more time to respond, please let us know. 
If you would like to arrange a time to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any 
questions about this letter, please contact Caylie McDonald on (03) 9290 1470 or 


2 
 
Eado Varon on (03) 9910 9415. 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public 
Mergers Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC treats sensitive information it receives during a merger review as confidential, and will 
not publish your submission. We will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our 
advisors/consultants) unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information 
legislation or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition and 
Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, we will notify 
you in advance where possible so that you have an opportunity to be heard. Therefore please 
clearly indicate if any information you provide is confidential. Our Informal Merger Review Process 
Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
Suzie Copley 
General Manager  
Policy, Coordination & Remedies 
 
 


3 
 
Attachment A 
Proposed acquisition 
Coles proposes to acquire Saputo’s fresh milk processing facilities in Laverton North 
(Victoria) and Erskine Park (New South Wales). 
Saputo 
Saputo is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Saputo Inc., a Canadian based dairy product 
company. Saputo produces and wholesales a wide range of dairy products for the 
domestic market including fresh drinking milk, cheese, extended shelf-life milk and 
cream products, cultured products and dairy ingredients. Saputo’s products are sold 
under brands including Cheer, Devondale and Sungold. 
Saputo is one of the largest dairy processors in Australia, with 10 manufacturing 
facilities. At the Erskine Park and Laverton facilities that are the subject of the 
proposed acquisition, Saputo produces fresh milk for its Devondale brand, and for 
other parties including Coles, for on-sale as own brand products at the retail level. 
Coles is the primary customer at the Erskine Park and Laverton facilities with its own 
brand fresh milk products accounting for the majority of the current annual volumes 
produced at the facilities.  
Saputo’s milk supply contracts are not included in the proposed acquisition (with the 
contracts Saputo holds with New South Wales and Victorian dairy farmers being 
retained by Saputo on current contractual terms). 
Coles 
Coles (ASX: COL) is a major supermarket chain and one of Australia’s largest 
grocery and general merchandise retailers. Coles operates an integrated supply 
chain which includes a national distribution network and associated logistics. Coles is 
also 50% shareholder of the flybuys loyalty program. 
Coles supplies branded and own brand fresh milk products at the retail level through 
its supermarkets. Coles is the distributor for its own brand fresh milk to Coles stores, 
produced under tolling arrangements with producers including Saputo. Coles does 
not currently own or operate any dairy processing facilities. 
 
 


4 
 
 
Attachment B 
1. Please describe your business or organisation and explain your interest in the 
proposed acquisition, including any commercial relationship(s) with Coles or 
Saputo. 
Farmers 
2. List the processor(s) to which you currently sell your raw milk. 
3. What is the annual volume of milk you supply? Please break down the 
proportions supplied to different processors or supplied for other uses. What is 
your calving pattern (i.e. seasonal, split or year-round)? 
4. Are there any other processor(s) to which you could sell your milk? If so, please 
list them. If you decide to exclude any particular processors in your region from 
this list, please provide reasons why.  
5. Have you switched between processors in the past? If so, please indicate how 
frequently.  
6. What impact do you think Coles acquiring Saputo’s Erskine Park and Laverton 
facilities will have on your business and the milk price you can obtain?  
7. Could you supply to a processor that does not have a processing plant in your 
region? If so, please indicate which processor(s) or region(s). 
Dairy processors 
8. Who do you consider are currently your closest competitors in acquiring raw milk 
in New South Wales and/or Victoria? If there is a particular processor/s in New 
South Wales and/or Victoria that you don’t consider you compete strongly with, 
please provide detail as to why. 
9. Please comment on whether you think the proposed acquisition will have an 
effect on competition for the acquisition of raw milk in those regions. If yes, 
please explain how. If no, please explain why not. 
10. Please identify whether there is any unused capacity available at your dairy 
processing plant, and if so, outline how much capacity you have available to 
process additional milk. 
11. Does Coles currently acquire processed milk from your plant? If so, what impact 
do you think the proposed acquisition would have on this relationship?  
Wholesalers and retailers  
12. Which dairy processing plants do you currently use and/or acquire processed 
milk from? 
13. Are there other processors you could use and/or acquire processed milk from? If 
no, please explain why not. 


5 
 
14. Please comment on whether the proposed acquisition will impact the prices or 
terms on which you currently acquire processed milk and/or use processing 
plants.  
Other information or competition issues 
15. Please provide any additional information or comments that you consider relevant to 
the ACCC’s consideration of the proposed acquisition. 
 
