 
 
Land of the Nyoongar Whadjuk people
Level 5, 1 William Street
Perth WA 6000
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
Tel 08 9325 0600
www.accc.gov.au
 
Our ref: 
IM-72592 
 
 
15 July 2024 
 
 
Dear Interested Party 
Request for submissions: Lineage’s proposed acquisition of Fremantle City Coldstores 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on the 
proposed acquisition of Bigstreet Pty Ltd trading as Fremantle City Coldstores (FCC) by Australian 
subsidiaries of Lineage Logistics Holdings LLC (Lineage) (the proposed acquisition). 
Lineage is a global cold storage and logistics business headquartered in the USA. Lineage 
owns and operates 13 cold storage facilities in Australia, including two facilities located in 
Welshpool and Banjup in Perth, Western Australia. FCC owns and operates a single cold 
storage facility in North Coogee in Perth. Further details about the merger parties are 
provided at Attachment A. 
Request for submissions 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the proposed acquisition’s impact on competition. 
Information from market participants is one of the ACCC’s most valuable tools in assessing 
mergers. Your expertise in cold storage and related services will help the ACCC understand 
the impact of the proposed acquisition, including how you or your business may be affected. 
In particular, we are seeking your views on: 
• 
The ability of customers to switch between cold storage suppliers or self-supply 
• 
The ability of cold storage suppliers to enter or expand in the supply of cold 
storage in or near Perth, Western Australia 
• 
The likely impact of the proposed acquisition on prices, quality of services, and 
choice. 
How to share your views 
A list of specific questions is at Attachment B. The more information we have, the better we 
can assess the impact of the proposed acquisition, but if you are unsure for any questions, 
you may leave them blank. You may also include any other information you think is relevant. 
You can contact us in two ways: 
• 
if you would like to comment in writing, please do so by 4pm 29 July 2024 by email 
to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: Submission re: Lineage-FCC 


 
 
2
• 
if you would like to arrange a time to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have 
any questions about this letter, please contact mergers@accc.gov.au. 
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test that the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in section 50 of the 
Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are likely to have the 
effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public Mergers 
Register at ACCC mergers register. 
 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We will not 
disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by 
law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or during court proceedings) or in 
accordance with s155AAA of the CCA. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where possible so that you may have an 
opportunity to be heard. Therefore, if the information provided to the ACCC is of a 
confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines 
contain more information on confidentiality. 
 
Yours sincerely  
 
Morag Bond 
General Manager 
Merger Investigations Branch 
 
 
 


 
 
3
Attachment A – Details of merger parties 
 
Lineage 
Lineage is a global cold storage and logistics business headquartered in the USA. Lineage 
owns 13 cold storage facilities in Australia, including two facilities located in Welshpool and 
Banjup in Perth, Western Australia. The proposed acquisition will be carried out via Lineage’s 
Australian subsidiaries, Lineage AUS TRS Pty Ltd and Emergent Cold (Vic.) Pty Ltd. 
Lineage operates its Welshpool facility, providing cold storage and services to a range of 
customers. Lineage’s Banjup facility is currently leased on a long-term basis to larger 
customers that operate the facility themselves. As part of these leases, Lineage supplies 
some maintenance services. 
In addition to cold storage, at its Welshpool facility Lineage supplies related services 
including: 
• 
blast freezing 
• 
warehousing services, such as picking, packing, stocktaking, and labelling 
• 
transport and distribution 
• 
automated shrink wrapping 
• 
container loading/unloading. 
FCC 
FCC is a Perth-based cold storage supplier with one facility located in North Coogee, near 
Fremantle in Western Australia. In addition to cold storage, it supplies additional services 
including: 
• 
blast freezing 
• 
warehousing 
• 
local transport 
• 
shrink wrapping and slip sheeting 
• 
container and stillage loading/unloading. 
 
 


 
 
4
Attachment B – Questions 
 
1. Describe your business or organisation and explain your interest in the proposed 
acquisition, including any commercial relationship(s) with Lineage or FCC. 
Questions for customers  
2. Outline your organisation’s requirements for cold storage, including details such as the 
location, number of pallet spaces, storage temperature, and duration of storage required.  
3. Outline the nature and extent of any additional services you require in relation to cold 
storage, for example: 
a. Warehousing services, such as picking, packing, and stocktaking 
b. Distribution and transport 
c. Blast freezing 
d. Wrapping and labelling 
e. Container-related services, such as destuffing and storage 
f. Services related to products intended for export. 
4. Describe how you procure cold storage and related services – for example, through 
formal tender or other methods – including typical contract duration. 
5. Describe your ability to switch between suppliers for cold storage and related services in 
Perth, and the providers of these cold storage services available to your organisation. 
Consider factors such as time, cost, or any exclusive or long-term contractual 
arrangements. 
6. Would your organisation be able to self-supply cold storage and related services? 
Consider factors such as time, cost, or any exclusive or long-term contractual 
arrangements. 
7. How likely is it that you would switch to another supplier for cold storage or related 
services? What factors make switching more or less likely. If possible, provide examples 
of previous occasions where you have switched suppliers, or outline the reasons why 
you have not switched suppliers. 
8. Describe how you expect your procurement of cold storage and related services to be 
affected by the proposed acquisition. Describe how you would respond if, post-
acquisition, Lineage increased prices by 5 to 10% or decreased quality or service levels. 
 
Questions for providers of cold storage and related services  
1. List the cold storage facilities you own and/or operate in Western Australia, including 
facilities leased to others. Include information about each facility, such as: 


 
 
5
a. Number of pallet spaces and square meters of storage 
b. Storage temperatures available 
c. The extent of automation involved in operating the facility 
d. The extent of related services available, such as: 
i. Warehousing services, such as picking, packing, and stocktaking 
ii. Distribution and transport 
iii. Blast freezing 
iv. Wrapping and labelling 
v. Container-related services, such as destuffing and storage 
vi. Services related to products intended for export. 
2. Identify your competitors for the supply of cold storage or related services. Please 
estimate market shares where possible. 
3. Describe what is required to enter into or expand in the supply of cold storage and 
related services in or near Perth. You may wish to comment on the following: 
a. The time it would take to enter or expand 
b. Costs that would be incurred 
c. The scale required to be competitive 
d. Availability of real estate assets or key inputs 
e. Regulatory barriers 
f. Examples of recent or failed entry 
g. Whether the proposed acquisition would impact barriers to entry or expansion. 
4. Describe your intentions, if any, to expand your capacity to supply cold storage or supply 
additional related services in or near Perth. 
 
Other 
1. Do you have any concerns about the impact the proposed acquisition will have on 
competition? Please explain your answer. 
2. Please provide any additional information or comments that you consider relevant to the 
ACCC’s consideration of the proposed acquisition. 
