Public Competition Assessment
20 April 2007
AGL Energy Limited and TRUenergy Pty Ltd – proposed swap of
South Australian electricity generation assets
Introduction
1. On 4 April 2007 the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC)
announced that it would not be opposing a proposed swap of South Australian
electricity generation assets between AGL Energy Limited (AGL) and
TRUenergy. Essentially, the proposed transaction involved AGL acquiring the
Torrens Island Power Station (TIPS) from TRUenergy and TRUenergy acquiring
the Hallett Power Station from AGL.
2. The ACCC formed its view on the basis of the information provided by the
merger parties and information arising from its market inquiries. This Public
Competition Assessment outlines the basis on which the ACCC has reached its
decision on the proposed acquisition, subject to confidentiality considerations.
Public Competition Assessment
2. To provide an enhanced level of transparency and procedural fairness in its
decision making process, the ACCC issues a Public Competition Assessment for
all transaction proposals where:
a merger is rejected;
a merger is subject to enforceable undertakings;
the merger parties seek such disclosure; or
a merger is approved but raises important issues that the ACCC considers
should be made public.
3.
This Public Competition Assessment has been issued because the ACCC
considers that the proposed transaction raises important issues that the ACCC
considers should be made public.
4.
By issuing Public Competition Assessments, the ACCC aims to provide the
market with a better understanding of the ACCC's analysis of various markets
and the associated merger and competition issues. It also alerts the market to
the circumstances where the ACCC’s assessment of the competition conditions
in particular markets is changing, or likely to change, because of developments.


5.
Each Public Competition Assessment is specific to the particular transaction
under review by the ACCC. While some transaction proposals may involve the
same or related markets, it should not be assumed that the analysis and decision
outlined in one Public Competition Assessment will be conclusive of the
ACCC’s view in respect of other transaction proposals, as each matter will be
considered on its own merits.
6.
Many of the ACCC’s decisions will involve consideration of both non-
confidential and confidential information provided by the merger parties and
market participants. In order to maintain the confidentiality of particular
information, Public Competition Assessments do not contain any confidential
information or its sources. While the ACCC aims to provide an appropriately
detailed explanation of the basis for the ACCC decision, where this is not
possible, maintaining confidentiality will be the ACCC's paramount concern,
and accordingly a Public Competition Assessment may not definitively explain
all issues and the ACCC’s analysis of such issues.
The parties
AGL
7.
AGL is a publicly listed Australian energy company that retails gas and
electricity to over 3.6 million customers. In South Australia, AGL is the largest
retailer of electricity, servicing 68.7% of residential customers (as at 30 June
2006).1
8.
Prior to the transaction, AGL owned, or had an interest in, the following
electricity generation assets in the National Electricity Market (NEM)2:
Hallett – a 180MW gas fired peaking generator located in South Australia.
This power station is also capable of running on diesel;
Wattle Point – an intermittent, wind powered turbine located in South
Australia with a generation capacity of 90.75MW;
Somerton – a 150MW gas fired peaking generator located in Victoria;
A 32.5% interest in Loy Yang A – a 2120MW coal fired baseload generator
located in Victoria; and
A suite of hydro generation assets located in Victoria, with a capacity of
approximately 592MW.
TRUenergy
9.
TRUenergy is part of the China Light & Power Group (CLP), a diversified
energy company listed on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange.
1 Essential Services Commission of South Australia (2006), Annual Performance Report –
Performance of South Australian Energy Retail Market 2005/06, November 2006, page 72.
2 The NEM incorporates all states and territories in Australia except Western Australia and the
Northern Territory.


10.
TRUenergy retails gas and electricity to over 1.1 million residential and
commercial customers across Australia, including South Australia. TRUenergy
also owns a number of electricity generators in Victoria and South Australia.
11.
Prior to the transaction, TRUenergy owned the following electricity generation
assets in South Australia and Victoria:
TIPS – a 1280MW gas fired intermediate-peak generator located in SA.
TIPS is the largest power station in South Australia and accounts for
approximately one third of installed generation capacity in that state; and
Yallourn – a 1480MW coal fired baseload generator located in Victoria
Other industry participants
Origin Energy
12.
Origin Energy is a major Australasian integrated energy company involved in
gas and oil exploration and production, energy retailing and electricity
generation. Origin retails electricity to customers throughout the NEM and
owns a suite of generation assets in South Australia and Queensland.
International Power
13.
International Power is the largest private generator of electricity in Australia,
with over 3700MW of generation capacity in South Australia, Victoria and
Western Australia.
14.
International Power also retails electricity in South Australia and Victoria via a
joint venture that it has with energy retailer Energy Australia.
Flinders Power
15.
Flinders Power is a wholly owned subsidiary of Babcock and Brown Power and
owns and operates a number of generation assets in South Australia. Flinders
Power provides more than 40% of South Australia’s wholesale electricity
requirements.
The Heywood and MurrayLink interconnectors
16.
The Heywood and MurrayLink interconnectors are the transmission lines
linking the South Australian and Victorian regions of the NEM. They have a
combined capacity of 680MW, but tend to become constrained (operate at less
than full capacity) particularly at times of high demand in South Australia.
The proposed transaction
17.
In summary, the transaction involved:
AGL acquiring TIPS and associated gas supply and storage contracts from
TRUenergy;


TRUenergy acquiring Hallett, and all rights to develop the power station,
from TRUenergy; and
TRUenergy acquiring derivative contracts from AGL struck against the
South Australian node in quantities that are material but substantially less
than the capacity of the Torrens Island power station.
Timing
18.
The following table outlines the timeline of key events in this matter:
Date
Event
2 February 2007
ACCC commenced review under the Merger Review Process Guidelines
26 February 2007
Closing date for submissions from interested parties
15 March 2007
Indicative timeline extended by one week
4 April 2007
ACCC announced that it would not oppose the proposed transaction
Market inquiries
19.
The ACCC conducted market inquiries with a range of industry participants,
including competitors, potential competitors, customers, industry bodies,
financial intermediaries and other interested parties. Submissions were sought
in relation to the substantive competition issues.
Market Definition
20.
The ACCC considered the relevant markets in this matter to be:
The wholesale supply of electricity in South Australia;
The supply of financial (hedge) contracts to South Australian electricity
retailers; and
The retail supply of electricity to residential customers in South Australia.
The supply of wholesale electricity in South Australia
Product market
21.
Generators primarily earn revenues by selling physical electricity into the NEM
and also via hedge contracts they enter into with electricity retailers and other
counter-parties. However, electricity retailers can only acquire physical
electricity from the NEM. The hedge contracts that they enter into with
generators (and other counter-parties) are not contracts for the supply of
physical electricity; rather, they are types of risk management instruments.


22.
In Australian Gas Light Company v Australian Competition & Consumer
Commission (No.3) [2003] FCA 1525 (Loy Yang), Justice French found that, for
the purposes of that matter3:
“…derivative contracts ought to be regarded as an integral part of the pricing
and payment arrangements between generators and retailers in relation to the
underlying product, which is electrical energy, and which they deal with ‘as if’
it had been sold from supplier to retailer.”
23.
Under the ‘purposive’ approach to market definition as applied by the
Australian Courts4, the relevant market will depend on the matter under
consideration.
24.
In Re QCMA and Defiance Holdings (1976) ATPR 40-102, the Trade Practices
Tribunal held that:
“… a market is a field of actual and potential transactions between buyers
and sellers amongst which there can be strong substitution, at least in the long
run, if given sufficient price incentive.”
25.
Although electricity derivatives (also referred throughout this document as
hedges and financial contracts) and physical electricity are both related to the
supply of electricity, the underlying characteristics of these product classes are
dissimilar in the context of demand side and supply side substitutability. If
retailers are unable to purchase electricity via the NEM, there is no alternative
supply available; retailers are not able to substitute the hedge contracts that they
hold for physical electricity, nor is a hedge contract a means of paying for the
acquisition of physical electricity. As such, while the ACCC accepted that
hedging is an essential activity for generators and retailers, it did not accept, for
the purposes of this matter, that they formed part of the same product market.
Rather, in this instance, the ACCC found that an electricity derivative could be
considered as an essential input for participating in the wholesale market for
supply of electricity in South Australia and the retail market for the supply of
electricity to residential customers in South Australia.
26.
However, the ACCC notes that the competition analysis of this matter would
not be materially different if a product market that encompasses both physical
electricity and hedge contracts were adopted.
Geographic dimension
27.
In the NEM, the spot price in each region is based on the bid of the most
expensive generator required to meet regional demand. The spot price may vary
from region to region because of two aspects of the transmission network.
28.
First, losses are incurred from where electricity is produced to where it is to be
consumed. These losses can lead to different prices in adjoining NEM regions.
3 At paragraph 382
4 See for example Singapore Airlines v Taprobane Tours WA Pty Ltd (1991) 33 FCR 158.


29.
Second, constraints can be encountered when electricity is transported across
the network. These constraints, particularly when they influence the operation
of interconnectors into a region, can lead to electricity prices for that region
being set independently from the other regions.
30.
South Australian generators often bid capacity into the pool at or close to their
marginal cost. However, generators in other regions will also be dispatched into
South Australia, subject to the prices they bid relative to other generators, and
taking into account transmission losses and constraints. Thus, the degree of
competition depends significantly on the level of interconnection between
regions. Therefore, when assessing the constraint provided by generators
outside the SA region, it is useful to think of an interconnector as being a
generator with a varying marginal cost.
31.
Market inquiries revealed that generators in Victoria, NSW and the Snowy
region have all been effectively dispatched into SA at different times. However,
the ACCC noted that, particularly during periods of high demand for electricity
in South Australia, there is often a substantial reduction in the interconnectivity
between the Victorian and South Australian regions, which severely limits the
ability of non-SA generators to compete with South Australian generators at
these times. It is noted that TIPS accounts for a large degree of total output in
South Australia during these times and is often the price-setting generator.
32.
Therefore, the ACCC considered the proposed transaction on the basis that the
geographic scope of the relevant market was the South Australian region plus
the SA-Victoria interconnectors.
33.
Having found that the transaction was unlikely to result in a substantial
lessening of competition on the basis of a South Australian geographic market,
it was unnecessary to consider the possibility that the geographic scope of the
market may be broader.
The supply of financial (hedge) contracts to South Australian electricity retailers
34.
As noted, hedging is an essential function for both generators and retailers in
managing risk in the South Australian region.
35.
Market inquiries indicated that it was desirable for South Australian retailers to
obtain various types of hedge contracts referenced against the South Australian
node. Hedge contracts referenced against other regional reference nodes
(nodes), or against the difference in pool prices between the SA and Victorian
nodes, can also be used by retailers. However, market inquiries suggested that
these contracts were weak substitutes only, because they did not match the risk
profile of South Australian retailers as well as SA contracts do. The ACCC
considered that contracts other than those referenced against the SA node could
be used to supplement a retailer’s risk management strategy, but that basing a
strategy on only these contracts would be risky.


36.
Products referenced against precipitation and temperature can also be used to
manage risk in some circumstances, however the ACCC found that these were
weak substitutes for most SA electricity hedges and were designed to hedge
against price increases resulting from unusual weather events.
37.
As such, the ACCC considered that the relevant product market consisted
primarily of financial contracts referenced against SA pool prices, with a
competitive fringe of contracts referenced against other nodes and contracts
referenced against price differentials between the SA and Victorian nodes.
The market for the retail supply of electricity to residential customers in South
Australia
38.
South Australian electricity customers are contestable and are therefore free to
choose their electricity retailer. Presently, there are nine active retailers of
electricity for residential customers in South Australia. However, the South
Australian market is highly concentrated amongst four retailers – Essential
Services Commission of South Australia (ESCOSA) data suggests that the four
major retailers account for 99.7% of the market as at 30 June 2006.5
39.
Market inquiries revealed differing views on the geographic scope of the
relevant retail market. Some in the market argued that South Australia should
be considered a separate geographic market, whereas others contended that the
retail market was NEM-wide.
40.
Market inquiries revealed that, to be a viable retailer of electricity in South
Australia, a retailer must have a South Australian retail electricity license,
access to hedge cover, a marketing department and a billing system.
41.
With respect to access to hedge cover, market inquiries indicated that it is highly
desirable, as an electricity retailer in South Australia, to have a hedge profile
referenced primarily against the SA node. As noted above, hedges struck
against other nodes, or against the difference in price between two nodes, were
found to be imperfect substitutes for SA hedges. Market inquiries suggested
that sustainable retail entry and competition would not occur in the absence of a
risk management portfolio consisting of SA-based risk management
instruments.
42.
Therefore, in assessing the matter, the ACCC started from the basis of a South
Australia geographic market. Having found that the transaction was unlikely to
result in a substantial lessening of competition on this basis, it was unnecessary
to consider the possibility that the market incorporated retailers outside of South
Australia.
5 Essential Services Commission of South Australia (2006), Annual Performance Report –
Performance of South Australian Energy Retail Market 2005/06, November 2006, page 72.


Competition analysis
43.
The ACCC considered a number of issues regarding AGL’s proposed
acquisition of TIPS. These concerns predominantly related to AGL’s incentive
and ability to raise prices in the relevant wholesale market and the likelihood of
the proposed acquisition increasing barriers to entry in the relevant retail
market.
Likelihood that the proposed transaction would give AGL the ability and incentive to
raise prices in the wholesale market
44.
When assessing whether a merger would be likely to substantially lessen
competition, section 50(3)(e) requires the ACCC to take into account whether a
merger would allow acquirer to “significantly and sustainably increase prices or
profit margins.”
45.
Economic analysis undertaken by the ACCC suggested that, when demand in
South Australia is high and the Vic-SA interconnector is constrained, TIPS
appears to have the ability to bid strategically to increase average SA pool
prices by at least 5%.
46.
However, the proposed acquisition would not have given AGL any extra ability
to raise prices in the SA node above and beyond the ability held by the current
owner of TIPS, TRUenergy. The ACCC considered that AGL would participate
in the same competitive environment as TRUenergy, the previous owner of
TIPS, and was therefore likely to face the same competitive constraint from
other generators both in South Australia, and in other states via the
interconnector. This competitive constraint was unlikely to change post-
transaction.
47.
Regarding AGL’s incentives, market participants raised concerns that AGL
would have a greater incentive to raise SA pool prices than TRUenergy
possessed. The ACCC’s assessment of this issue is given below; however, the
ACCC notes that this overview is in part restricted by the ACCC’s obligation to
maintain confidentiality of certain information provided to it.
(a)
Potential incentive to influence ESCOSA’s forthcoming review of the regulated
electricity retail tariff
48.
The ACCC considered whether AGL could exercise market power in the
wholesale market, through TIPS, in such a way as to increase the wholesale
energy component of the regulated retail tariffs in South Australia. These tariffs
are determined by ESCOSA, taking into account the relevant electricity entity’s
prudent controllable costs, among other factors specified in the Essential
Services Commission Act 2002.


49.
In terms of the section 50 ‘with and without’ test, the ACCC considered
whether the proposed transaction would provide AGL with greater incentive to
pursue this strategy than the situation without the acquisition of TIPS. As the
‘prescribed’ electricity retailer in South Australia, AGL must offer customers
the choice of purchasing electricity on a regulated tariff. The ACCC considered
whether, if AGL were able to increase pool prices in SA, this would have a
corresponding effect on wholesale (including hedge contract) prices and, in turn,
result in ESCOSA increasing the regulated tariff.
50.
Market inquiries indicated that the regulated tariff acts as a kind of ‘cap’ on the
prices of market contracts,6 and that the average price charged by retailers for
market contracts is just below this tariff. As such, although all retailers would
have stood to gain from an increase in the tariff, it was argued that AGL had the
most to gain as it had the largest customer base.
51.
While the ACCC accepted that AGL may have had this incentive post-
transaction, market inquiries indicated that this strategy would be difficult to
effectively implement. One reason is that AGL would have to reduce TIPS’s
dispatch to increase wholesale electricity prices. This would need to be offset by
a longer term increase in retail prices.
52.
Notwithstanding the processes undertaken and things taken into account by
ESCOSA when determining regulated tariffs, the ACCC also considered that
there were already possible strategies open to AGL to attempt to influence the
tariff review, if it wished. Finally, the ACCC considered that TRUenergy may
have already had the incentive to influence ESCOSA’s review process, because,
as a provider of market contracts, it would presumably also benefit from an
increase in regulated retail tariffs, as outlined above.
(b)
Increase revenues for AGL’s wholesale business
53.
It was put to the ACCC that, post-transaction, AGL would have the ability and
incentive to increase pool prices without inflicting losses on its retail business.
This issue was considered based on the assumption that AGL’s retail load
would be fully hedged from a combination of it owning TIPS and hedge cover
obtained from financial contracts with other generators.
54.
Again, the ACCC recognised that AGL may have this incentive, however it
noted that, given AGL’s retail load relative to the capacity of TIPS, any increase
in pool prices and an associated rise in hedge contract prices, although
increasing its wholesale revenues, would have also increased its retail costs,
post-transaction. In order for this strategy to be profitable, AGL would have to
pass through the increased retail costs to retail prices. The ACCC concluded that
this was unlikely, having regard to factors including the role of the regulator and
other South Australian retailers in constraining AGL’s retail prices.
6 Market contracts are contracts offered to retail customers where the price is not regulated.


55.
Finally, the ACCC noted that, given the capacity of TIPS relative to the size of
TRUenergy’s South Australian retail load, TRUenergy already had the incentive
to raise pool prices to increase its wholesale revenues. On this basis TRUenergy
would also not have faced a corresponding increase in its retail costs.
Therefore, the ACCC considered that AGL may actually have less incentive
than TRUenergy in this regard.
(c)
Increase the costs of AGL’s retail competitors
56.
The ACCC considered whether AGL might have the incentive to increase pool
prices, and therefore hedge contract prices, to raise its retail rivals’ costs post-
transaction. However, the ACCC considered that such a strategy was likely to
be expensive and high-risk, and likely to inflict losses on AGL itself. As
previously noted, raising hedge contract prices would raise AGL’s costs as well
as those of other retailers. Therefore, for such a strategy to be profitable, AGL
would need to recoup all losses incurred by winning a sizeable number of retail
customers.
57.
An associated concern was that AGL’s acquisition of TIPS may significantly
reduce the volume of hedge products available to other retailers, increasing
barriers to entry and potentially causing some retailers to exit the market.
58.
However, the ACCC took into account the presence of a number of vertically
integrated generator-retailers in South Australia, including Origin Energy,
TRUenergy and EnergyAustralia/International Power, and other information
regarding the supply and demand for contract cover that was provided on a
confidential basis by a range of parties. The ACCC concluded that, to the extent
there might be a reduction in available contract cover, this was unlikely to be a
persistent or long-term issue.
59.
The ACCC further noted that TRUenergy, as a vertically integrated retailer
itself, would presumably also have had an incentive to increase the costs of
hedge contracts. Further, as noted above, given the smaller size of its retail load
relative to AGL’s, this strategy may have been more feasible for TRUenergy.
60.
Therefore, while the ACCC accepted that AGL may have an incentive to raise
prices in the wholesale market post-transaction, it was not clear that these were
substantially greater than TRUenergy’s existing incentives, and AGL’s ability to
do so was not enhanced by the proposed transaction.
Likelihood the proposed transaction would raise barriers to entry into the retail
market
61.
Section 50(3)(b) requires the ACCC to take into account the height of barriers to
entry into markets when assessing whether a merger would be likely to result in
a substantial lessening of competition.


62.
A significant number of market participants raised concerns that the proposed
transaction would lead to a decrease in the liquidity of hedge products available
to South Australian retailers. Market inquiries raised a concern that compared
to the situation without the transaction, there would be a reduction in the volume
of electricity derivatives traded, due to the natural hedge created between TIPS
and AGL’s large retail load in South Australia. This, it was argued, would
decrease liquidity, and make the South Australian hedge market more difficult
and risky to trade in. The ACCC therefore considered this concern in the context
of whether the proposed transaction would raise barriers to entry into the retail
market.
63.
The ACCC acknowledged concerns raised by interested parties that there is
poor liquidity in the market for electricity derivatives in South Australia,
particularly in comparison to other regions in the NEM.
64.
The ACCC also accepted that, in the short term, there was a possibility that the
liquidity of hedge products referenced against the SA node may decrease as a
result of this transaction. However, market inquiries, including confidential
information provided to the ACCC by a number of relevant market participants,
indicated that it was unlikely that this transaction would lead to a material long
term decrease in the availability of hedge products in South Australia.
Therefore it did not appear that this transaction significantly raised barriers to
entry for retailing in South Australia when compared to the likely scenario were
the transaction not to proceed, and it appeared unlikely there would be a
substantial lessening of existing competition in the South Australian retail
market.
Conclusion
65.
The proposed transaction is unlikely to give AGL any increased incentive or
ability to increase prices in the wholesale market, over and above those held by
the current owner of TIPS, TRUenergy. As such, the proposed acquisition was
considered unlikely to result in a substantial lessening of competition in the
wholesale market.
66.
Similarly, while noting concerns about the current liquidity of financial markets
in South Australia, the ACCC concluded that the present transaction was
unlikely to materially decrease the availability of hedge products, particularly in
the long term. Therefore, the ACCC concluded that the transaction was unlikely
to significantly raise barriers to entry into the retail market and unlikely to result
in a substantial lessening of competition.
