 
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
tel: (02) 6243 1368 
mergers@accc.gov.au
www.accc.gov.au
Our ref: IM-71434 
Contact officer: Kelly Harkess   
Contact phone: (03) 9290 1897  
28 October 2021 
Dear Interested Party 
Re:  Request for submissions: APA’s proposed acquisition of AusNet 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
the proposed acquisition of AusNet Services Ltd (AusNet) by APA Group (APA) (the 
proposed acquisition). 
APA owns and operates gas and electricity infrastructure assets throughout Australia. 
AusNet owns and operates gas and electricity assets across Victoria. Further details are 
provided at Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact on competition. In particular, we are 
seeking your views on: 
• 
whether the price of gas or electricity transmission, storage or distribution would be 
likely to increase, or service levels decrease, as a result of the proposed acquisition 
• 
whether the ability to access gas or electricity services would be affected 
• 
whether energy infrastructure services, such as operation and maintenance 
services to third parties or infrastructure assets, would be affected 
• 
the extent to which the proposed acquisition would affect any future competitive 
processes for the development and operation of new or expanding energy 
infrastructure. 
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  
This matter is public, and you can forward this letter to anyone who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the Act). Section 50 prohibits acquisitions 
that are likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
Please provide your response by 12 November 2021 via email with the title: Submission 


re: APA / AusNet – attention Kelly Harkess / Eado Varon. If you require more time to 
respond, please let us know. 
If you would like to arrange a time to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any 
questions about this letter, please contact Kelly Harkess on (03) 9290 1897 or Eado Varon 
on (03) 9910 9415. 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public 
Mergers Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC treats sensitive information it receives during a merger review as confidential, and will 
not publish your submission. We will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our 
advisors/consultants) unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information 
legislation or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition and 
Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, we will notify 
you in advance where possible so that you have an opportunity to be heard. Therefore please 
clearly indicate if any information you provide is confidential. Our Informal Merger Review Process 
Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
Daniel McCracken-Hewson 
General Manager  
Merger Investigations  
 


 
Attachment A 
APA 
APA is an ASX-listed company that owns and operates natural gas and electricity 
infrastructure. Throughout Australia, APA owns or has interests in gas pipelines, gas 
storage facilities, electricity transmission, and electricity generation assets (including 
gas-fired power stations and renewable energy).  
APA owns or has an interest in the following assets in Victoria: 
• 
Gas transmission:  
o the Victorian Transmission System, the monopoly Victorian gas 
transmission network (this is fully regulated under the National Gas 
Law (NGL) and National Gas Rules (NGR)) 
o the Moomba to Sydney Pipeline, which connects to Victoria in 
southern NSW (part of this pipeline is ‘non-scheme’ under the NGR 
and part is subject to ‘light’ regulation) 
o the SEA Gas Pipeline System, from Victoria to SA (these are non-
scheme pipelines under the NGR). 
• 
Other gas infrastructure: the Dandenong LNG Gas Storage Facility and the 
Orbost Gas Plant Facility. 
• 
Electricity transmission:  
o the Murraylink interconnector from Victoria to SA (this is fully regulated 
under the National Electricity Law (NEL) and National Electricity Rules 
(NER)) 
o a potential future interest in the Basslink interconnector from Victoria 
to Tasmania (this is not currently regulated but is fully contracted to 
Hydro Tasmania). 
APA has significant interests in gas infrastructure in other states, including the South 
West Queensland Pipeline and the Carpentaria Pipeline in Queensland. It also has a 
19.9% interest in the Directlink electricity interconnector between NSW and 
Queensland. Finally, APA provides asset management and infrastructure services in 
relation to gas assets, which includes the provision of operation, maintenance, and 
metering services to industrial customers. 
APA also has electricity generation assets in other states. These include the Darling 
Downs solar farm in Queensland, the North Brown wind farm in South Australia 
(20.2% interest) and the Daandine Power Station in Queensland (19.9% interest). 
These assets are connected to the National Electricity Market (NEM). 
AusNet 
AusNet is an ASX-listed company with electricity and gas assets across Victoria. It is 
32.3% owned by Singapore Power, 19.9% owned by State Grid of China and around 
48% publicly owned. 
AusNet’s Victorian assets include: 
• 
Gas distribution: a gas distribution network supplying central and western 
Victoria and western Melbourne (one of three such networks in Victoria; this is 
fully regulated under the NGL and NGR) 
• 
Electricity distribution: an electricity distribution network supplying eastern 
and north-eastern Victoria and north and east Melbourne (one of five such 


networks in Victoria; this is fully regulated under the NEL and NER). 
• 
Electricity transmission: the main Victorian electricity transmission network 
(this is fully regulated under the NEL and NER, although some augmentations 
are contestable). 
• 
Other electricity infrastructure: the Ballarat Energy Storage System 
(currently fully contracted to Energy Australia). 
AusNet also operates a services business, Mondo. It provides technical services, 
metering, geospatial services, water field services and telecommunications services.  


Attachment B 
1. Please describe your business or organisation and explain your interest in the 
proposed acquisition, including any commercial relationship(s) with APA or 
AusNet. 
Competitive dynamics 
2. Please comment on the extent to which APA and AusNet’s infrastructure assets 
compete with each other.  
3. Please discuss whether the proposed acquisition will have any impact on the 
competitive constraints faced by the combined APA/AusNet in the supply of gas 
and electricity transmission and distribution in Victoria. In your response, please 
discuss the effect of full regulation on the combined APA/AusNet’s Victorian 
energy assets. 
4. Please discuss any competition issues that may arise from: 
• 
the combination of the parties’ gas transmission, storage and distribution 
assets, including the combined APA/AusNet’s ability and incentive to 
make investment decisions to favour gas from APA’s gas transmission 
pipelines 
• 
the combination of the parties’ electricity generation, transmission, storage 
and distribution assets, including the combined APA/AusNet’s ability and 
incentive to make investment decisions to favour electricity from APA’s 
generation assets or its (potential) future ownership of Basslink. 
5. Please discuss any competition issues that may arise from the combination of 
APA and AusNet’s gas and electricity assets (in a combined market for gas and 
electricity). In your response, please discuss the combined APA/AusNet’s ability 
and incentive to disrupt new or existing connections to its electricity transmission 
network to favour its gas network, or vice versa. 
Acquisition and supply of upstream services 
6. Please discuss any competition issues that may arise from:  
• 
the combination of two potential customers of upstream energy 
infrastructure services, including operation and maintenance services, in 
Victoria 
• 
the combination of two suppliers of energy infrastructure services in 
Victoria, the east coast of Australia or Australia.  
7. For the supply and acquisition of energy infrastructure services, please identify 
and discuss existing or potential businesses that would compete with the 
combined APA/AusNet, and comment on the height of barriers to entry and 
expansion. 
Development and operation of new or expanding energy infrastructure 
8. Please identify the extent to which APA and AusNet compete for the 
development and operation of new or expanding energy infrastructure, in Victoria, 
the east coast of Australia and/or Australia broadly. 


9. Please identify and discuss the key competing suppliers for the development of 
new or expanding gas or electricity infrastructure. Please identify the geographic 
locations in which each of these suppliers competes.  
10. Please identify any potential new entrants for the development or operation of 
gas or electricity infrastructure. In your response, consider the likely timeframe for 
entry and provide details about barriers to entry (including any incumbency 
advantages to overcome). Please provide examples of recent entry where 
possible. 
11. Please comment on the extent to which the proposed acquisition could affect 
competition for future gas or electricity infrastructure developments or 
expansions. In your response, please comment on the combined APA/AusNet’s 
ability or incentive to influence decision-making on new infrastructure, including 
decarbonisation and renewable energy projects, and whether it would have the 
ability and incentive to frustrate these projects to protect its existing infrastructure 
assets. 
Other  
12. Please provide any additional information or comments that you consider relevant to 
the ACCC’s consideration of the proposed acquisition under section 50 of the Act. 
 
