 
Public Competition Assessment 
13 November 2009 
National Australia Bank Ltd - proposed acquisition of mortgage 
management business from Challenger Financial Services Group 
Introduction 
1. 
On 7 October 2009, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission 
(ACCC) announced its decision not to oppose the proposed acquisition by 
National Australia Bank Ltd of the mortgage management business from 
Challenger Financial Services Group (proposed acquisition). The ACCC was of 
the view that the proposed acquisition would not be likely to have the effect of 
substantially lessening competition in any relevant market, in contravention of 
section 50 of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (the Act). 
2. 
The ACCC formed its view on the basis of the information provided by the 
merger parties and information arising from its market inquiries. This Public 
Competition Assessment outlines the basis on which the ACCC has reached its 
decision on the proposed acquisition, subject to confidentiality considerations. 
Public competition assessment 
3. 
To provide an enhanced level of transparency and procedural fairness in its 
decision making process, the ACCC issues a Public Competition Assessment for 
all transaction proposals where: 
 a merger is opposed; 
 a merger is subject to enforceable undertakings; 
 the merger parties seek such disclosure; or 
 a merger is not opposed but raises important issues that the ACCC considers 
should be made public. 
4. 
This Public Competition Assessment has been issued because the proposed 
acquisition is considered to raise issues of interest to the public. 
 


National Australia Bank - proposed acquisition of mortgage management business from 
Challenger Financial Services Group 
-2- 
5. 
By issuing Public Competition Assessments, the ACCC aims to provide the 
public with a better understanding of the ACCC’s analysis of various markets and 
the associated merger and competition issues. It also alerts the public to the 
circumstances where the ACCC’s assessment of the competition conditions in 
particular markets is changing, or likely to change, because of developments.  
6. 
Each Public Competition Assessment is specific to the particular transaction 
under review by the ACCC. While some transaction proposals may involve the 
same or related markets, it should not be assumed that the analysis and decision 
outlined in one Public Competition Assessment will be conclusive of the ACCC’s 
view in respect of other transaction proposals, as each matter will be considered 
on its own merits.  
7. 
Many of the ACCC’s decisions will involve consideration of both 
non-confidential and confidential information provided by the merger parties and 
market participants. In order to maintain the confidentiality of particular 
information, Public Competition Assessments do not contain any confidential 
information or its sources. While the ACCC aims to provide an appropriately 
detailed explanation of the basis for the ACCC decision, where this is not 
possible, maintaining confidentiality will be the ACCC’s paramount concern, and 
accordingly a Public Competition Assessment may not definitively explain all 
issues and the ACCC’s analysis of such issues. 
The parties 
The acquirer – National Australia Bank Ltd (NAB) 
8. 
NAB is ASX listed and provides an integrated range of financial products and 
services: personal and business banking, insurance, superannuation, investment 
services and financial planning. The business also includes the wealth 
management operations of MLC Limited. 
9. 
NAB is the 3rd largest retail bank in Australia by market capitalisation, valued at 
approximately $65 billion.  
NAB’s home lending business 
10. 
NAB provides home loan products through two brands: NAB and Homeside. The 
NAB brand is primarily aimed at branch level customers, whereas Homeside is 
primarily aimed at mortgage brokers. Brokers are a key distribution channel for 
banks and non-bank lenders. 
11. 
NAB does not provide mortgage distribution services to other lenders in the 
Australian home loan market, aggregation platforms or ‘white labelling’ of 
mortgages for mortgage originators multi-brand lending. 


National Australia Bank - proposed acquisition of mortgage management business from 
Challenger Financial Services Group 
-3- 
The target – Challenger Financial Services Group Limited’s mortgage 
management business 
12. 
The Challenger Financial Services Group (Challenger) is an ASX listed 
Australian based financial services company. 
13. 
Challenger has stated that its mortgage management business is Australia’s 
largest non-bank mortgage lender and mortgage broking aggregator. 
14. 
The proposed acquisition of Challenger’s mortgage management business 
includes the following (as illustrated in Figure 1 below): 
 
Distribution (broker platforms): The PLAN, FAST and Choice mortgage 
aggregation business which provide support services to accredited 
mortgage brokers.  
 
Multi-brand (white label) lending: Challenger’s white label product 
primarily provides wholesale mortgage loans to mortgage managers who 
distribute these products to borrowers under their own brands. 
 
Residential mortgages portfolio: A select portfolio of approximately $4 
billion of residential mortgages. 
 
Associated distribution: An interest of 17.5 per cent in ASX listed 
mortgage management company, Homeloans Limited, with the potential to 
increase to approximately 41 per cent. 
15. 
Challenger has integrated the PLAN, Choice and FAST platforms and support 
functions of these businesses. This network of platforms accounts for 
approximately 40 per cent of sales of mortgage products by mortgage brokers in 
Australia. Together, these broker platforms have relationships with about 5,700 
loan writers/brokers and 400 mortgage managers. 
Figure 1 
Challenger Mortgage Management 
 
Source: NAB Transaction Summary, 18 August 2009 


National Australia Bank - proposed acquisition of mortgage management business from 
Challenger Financial Services Group 
-4- 
16. 
Post acquisition, Challenger will continue to operate a commercial mortgages 
business . Commercial mortgages are commonly utilised by businesses when 
buying commercial property for either a business venture or for investment 
purposes. Post-acquisition, Challenger will also continue to operate its annuity 
and funds management businesses. 
Industry background 
Distribution of home loans / industry participants 
17. 
The distribution of home loans to borrowers involves a range of industry 
participants, including mortgage brokers, mortgage managers, mortgage 
aggregators and broker platforms, as well as white label providers of wholesale 
funding products. Banks and non-bank lending institutions also directly distribute 
home loans from their branch and online channels. 
Mortgage brokers 
 
18. 
Mortgage brokers are intermediaries that specialise in residential loans and work 
with a borrower by providing advice on the numerous home loans available and 
assist in completing a mortgage transaction. A mortgage broker usually collects a 
commission fee from lenders. When a mortgage broker writes a loan they 
typically earn two types of commission, an upfront commission and a trail 
commission. The upfront commission is a percentage of the loan amount and the 
trail commission is an ongoing percentage based on the balance of the loan. 
Mortgage brokers can be independent, franchisees of mortgage groups, or 
organized into aggregator groups that pool individual brokers' business. It is 
estimated that approximately 43 per cent of recent mortgage loans are ‘broker-
written’. Industry estimates of the number of mortgage brokers in Australia 
typically range around 14,000-15,000.  
Mortgage managers 
19. 
Mortgage managers are intermediaries between lenders and borrowers and 
specialise in administering the mortgage loan throughout its life, from the time 
the loan is provided by the funding institution until the borrower pays the final 
instalment of the loan. Mortgage managers are responsible for monitoring loan 
repayments, interest rate adjustments, loan variations and customer enquiries. 
20. 
Mortgage managers may provide loan processing services to brokers as well as 
distributing home loans directly to the public under their own brands, for 
example, Aussie Home Loans and AFG. 


National Australia Bank - proposed acquisition of mortgage management business from 
Challenger Financial Services Group 
-5- 
Mortgage aggregators & broker platforms 
21. 
Mortgage aggregators or broker platforms provide accredited brokers with access 
to the products of a range of lenders and also provide infrastructure (technology 
systems and software) and administrative support, education and training, 
communication and marketing assistance to member brokers. The aggregator 
organises a panel of lenders, facilitates processing of applications and enters into 
commission-sharing arrangements with broker members. Many mortgage brokers 
are aligned to a distribution platform/aggregator service. Broker platforms 
generally have commission-splitting arrangements with brokers and derive 
revenue by retaining a fee from brokers’ commission payments. 
White label providers 
22. 
Wholesale mortgage lenders provide white label products to mortgage managers 
who distribute these products to borrowers under their own brand. The mortgage 
manager brand is used on loan correspondence, account statements and internet 
sites enabling the mortgage manager to appear as the lender in their own right.  
23. 
Wholesale mortgage products are provided by both bank and non-bank 
institutions, such as ING Direct and Bendigo & Adelaide Bank. 
Credit crunch & Australian Government policies 
24. 
Recent industry developments relevant to this assessment are discussed below. 
Global financial crisis 
25. 
Since July 2007, the credit crunch has had an impact on the competitive dynamic 
in banking markets. With the virtual closure of asset securitisation markets and 
the increased cost of wholesale funds since late 2007, many non-bank lenders 
who were reliant on securitisation as a source of funding have had to exit or 
temporarily withdraw from the Australian market. 
26. 
Securitisation, up until two years ago, represented a quarter of funding for all new 
mortgages in Australia, whether written by banks or non-banks. After peaking at 
$131 billion in August 2007, outstanding levels of Residential Mortgage Backed 
Securities (RMBS) continue to decline in Australia as loans are repaid and 
virtually no new issuance occurs. As at June 2009, RMBS of $82 billion are 
outstanding, down from $114 billion a year earlier. 
27. 
In recent months, industry commentators have speculated that early signs are 
appearing of the Australian securitisation market re-opening. As reported on 25 
September 2009, Members Equity Bank recently became the first bank to sell 
mortgage-backed securities to private investors this year. 
 
 
 


National Australia Bank - proposed acquisition of mortgage management business from 
Challenger Financial Services Group 
-6- 
Australian Government policies 
28. 
In response to the global financial crisis, the Australian Government introduced a 
guarantee on retail deposits and a wholesale funding guarantee for the debt issues 
of Authorised deposit-taking institutions (ADIs). The Government has also 
invested in Australian RMBS.  
Government guarantee of wholesale funding  
29. 
The wholesale funding guarantee came into effect on 28 November 2008. A 
tiered fee structure based on the institution’s credit rating was applied for the 
wholesale funding guarantee. AA rated banks could have access to a guarantee on 
new wholesale funding for a fee of 70 basis points, A rated banks for 100 basis 
points, and BBB or unrated ADIs for 150 basis points.  
30. 
The Government has announced that the guarantee arrangements are designed to 
be temporary and will remain in place ‘until conditions normalise’. 
Government investment in Australian RMBS  
31. 
On 3 October 2008, the Treasurer announced that the Australian Office of 
Financial Management (AOFM) was to invest $4 billion in Australian RMBS 
allocated to both the banking and non-banking sectors. On 12 October 2008, the 
government announced that the AOFM would add an additional $4 billion in 
funding for the purchase of RMBS directly for the non-bank sector.  
32. 
On 11 October 2009, the AOFM invested a further $8 billion for the purchase of 
Australian RMBS. 
Timing 
33. 
The following table outlines the timeline of key events in this matter. 
Date 
Event 
20-Aug-2009 
ACCC commenced review under the Merger Review Process Guidelines. 
10-Sep-2009 
Closing date for submissions from interested parties. 
07-Oct-2009 
ACCC announced it would not oppose the proposed acquisition. 
Market inquiries 
34. 
The ACCC conducted extensive market inquiries in relation to the proposed 
acquisition. A range of interested parties provided responses including 
competitors, industry associations, mortgage brokers and interested third parties.  


National Australia Bank - proposed acquisition of mortgage management business from 
Challenger Financial Services Group 
-7- 
35. 
In the course of these inquiries, the ACCC explored a number of issues with 
market participants, including any potential implications the proposed acquisition 
might have on the operation of the broker platforms NAB would acquire.  In 
particular, issues explored included whether and to what extent NAB may have 
the ability and incentive to: influence brokers aligned to the broker platforms 
such that NAB would originate a larger share of home loans, foreclose rival 
lenders from accessing the lender panels on the broker platforms, and/or obtain 
access to commercially sensitive information from the broker platform systems 
(e.g. customer details, credit policy, commission rates and product pricing). 
The with/without test 
36. 
Section 50 of the Act prohibits an acquisition if it would have the effect, or be 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market.  
37. 
In assessing a merger pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC must consider 
the effects of the transaction by comparing the likely future state of competition if 
the transaction proceeds (the ‘with’ or ‘factual’ position) to the likely future state 
of competition if the transaction does not proceed (the ‘without’ or 
‘counterfactual’ position).  
38. 
Based on information provided by the merger parties and other available 
information, the ACCC concluded that Challenger’s ability to vigorously and 
effectively compete at present has been temporarily weakened by funding 
conditions. The ACCC identified a number of possible counterfactual scenarios 
in relation to the position of the Challenger mortgage management business if the 
merger were not to proceed, including: 
(i) the sale of the Challenger mortgage management business to another 
acquirer that has improved access to funding; 
(ii) a temporary withdrawal by Challenger from mortgage funding. 
39. 
The ACCC did not need to form a concluded view on the likely counterfactual 
position of the Challenger mortgage management business, as on either analysis, 
it found that the merger would not be likely to result in a substantial lessening of 
competition in a market.  However, for the purposes of the following analysis, the  
the ACCC adopted a counterfactual that without the proposed acquisition, the 
Challenger mortgage management business would likely return to being a 
vigorous and effective competitor as funding conditions improve in the 
foreseeable future.   
Market definition 
40. 
The ACCC considered that the relevant market for the purposes of assessing this 
transaction was a national market for the supply of home loans, including 
mortgage lending by banks, building societies, credit unions and other financial 
institutions as well as mortgage brokers. 


National Australia Bank - proposed acquisition of mortgage management business from 
Challenger Financial Services Group 
-8- 
Product dimension 
41. 
Home loan products are supplied to individuals for the purpose of acquiring 
residential property and include financing from retail banks, non-bank lenders, 
mortgage brokers or originators and other financial institutions. 
42. 
The ACCC considers that broker platforms and multi-brand white labelling 
platforms provide alternative distribution and manufacturing options for suppliers 
of home loans. The ACCC considers that these alternative methods of supplying 
home loans are close substitutes for home loans supplied directly by lenders and 
accordingly form part of the national market for the supply of home loans. 
43. 
The ACCC’s analysis focussed on two key areas of the market for the supply of 
home loans in which Challenger’s mortgage management business is active: 
(a) distribution and aggregator services (broker platforms); and 
 
(b) manufacturing/lending (multi-brand white labelling). 
 
Geographic dimension 
44. 
In previous banking mergers the ACCC has concluded that the geographic 
dimension to the home loan market is national. This is based on evidence that 
consumers do not require the physical presence of a distribution point to access a 
wide variety of mortgage products. Further, evidence indicates that price 
competition for retail banking products, including home loans, is national. 
45. 
Consistent with previous banking mergers, market inquiries undertaken during 
this matter supported a national market for the supply of home loans.  
Competition analysis 
46. 
The ACCC considered several theories of competitive harm that may arise in the 
national market for the supply of home loans as a result of the proposed 
acquisition: 
(i) 
The ACCC considered whether NAB would have the ability and 
incentive, post-acquisition, to induce brokers to redirect flows to NAB 
products over those of rival lenders; 
(ii) 
The ACCC explored several potential methods by which NAB may be 
able to foreclose its rivals as a result of its ability to control Challenger’s 
broker distribution platforms, specifically: 
- Foreclosure by restricting rival lenders from lender panels of broker 
platforms; 
- Foreclosure by restricting affiliated brokers from switching to rival 
aggregators; 


National Australia Bank - proposed acquisition of mortgage management business from 
Challenger Financial Services Group 
-9- 
- Foreclosure by refusing to deal with other aggregators/brokers. 
(iii) The ACCC considered whether NAB would obtain access to 
commercially sensitive information of rival lenders as a result of its 
operation of Challenger’s broker distribution platforms. 
Market concentration 
47. 
The proposed acquisition involved NAB acquiring a select portion of 
Challenger’s loan book, amounting to approximately $4 billion. It was found that 
this would result in a minor degree of horizontal aggregation in the national 
market for the supply of home loans. 
48. 
Challenger holds only 1.5 per cent of the home loans market. Post-acquisition, 
NAB would have a market share of 13.2 per cent. The proposed acquisition 
would have increased NAB's market share in the home loan market by less than 1 
per cent.1 
Table 1 
Share of home loans – June 2009 
Home loan provider 
Share (%) 
NAB 
12.8 
Challenger 
1.5 
Merged entity 
13.2^ 
CBA (incl. BankWest) 
24.9 
Westpac (incl. St George) 
23.1 
ANZ 
12.5 
ING 
3.4 
Suncorp 
2.7 
Bendigo & Adelaide Bank 
2.5 
Bank of Queensland 
1.9 
Macquarie Bank 
1.7 
Citigroup 
0.9 
AMP 
0.8 
HSBC 
0.5 
Other institutions 
10.8 
Total 
100 
Note: The market share figures are derived from a number of sources. The ACCC considers these figures to be the best estimates 
available for the purposes of this assessment. 
^ NAB is acquiring $4 billion of Challenger mortgage management’s loan book which equates to 0.4% of its 1.5% market share. 
 
                                               
1  
NAB’s current market share is 12.8 per cent. Challenger’s current market share is 1.5 per cent – 
however, NAB is only proposing to acquire $4 billion of Challenger’s loan book. Therefore, NAB’s 
market share post acquisition will only rise by 0.4 per cent. 


National Australia Bank - proposed acquisition of mortgage management business from 
Challenger Financial Services Group 
-10- 
49. 
In respect of the distribution of home loans via broker platforms, Challenger's 
group of aggregator platforms (PLAN, FAST and Choice) have affiliations with 
approximately 40 per cent of brokers in Australia (although not all of these 
affiliations are exclusive). These brokers sell mortgages supplied by a range of 
bank and non-bank lenders. 
Table 2 
Share of broker flows / affiliated brokers 
 
Affiliated brokers 
Broker groups/aligned aggregators 
Share of flows  
(%) 
No. 
% 
PLAN (Challenger owned) 
16 
2,468 
19 
FAST (Challenger owned) 
13 
1,856 
14 
Choice (Challenger owned) 
11 
1,386 
10 
Merged entity 
40 
5,710 
43 
AFG 
15 
2,129 
16 
Aussie 
9 
800 
6 
Mortgage Choice 
9 
577 
4 
Loan Market Group / Xinc 
5 
400 
3 
National Brokers Group 
3 
600 
5 
Others (Connective, Astute, etc) 
19 
3,039 
23 
Total 
100 
13,255 
100 
Note: The market share figures are derived from a number of sources. The ACCC considers these figures to be the best estimates 
available for the purposes of this assessment. 
 
50. 
As NAB is not presently a supplier of broker distribution platforms, it was found 
that the proposed acquisition would not, at the outset, result in any increased 
concentration with respect to broker flows or affiliated brokers aligned to 
aggregator platforms. 
Barriers to entry and expansion 
51. 
In the current economic climate, access to funding is the main issue faced by 
prospective lenders seeking to enter the market for the supply of home loans. 
Closure of securitisation markets and the increased cost of credit has had the 
effect of raising barriers to entry for lenders. Accordingly, the ACCC considers 
that barriers to entry for the market for the supply of home loans are high. 
52. 
The ACCC found, based on market inquiries, that the key requirements to 
establish a broker platform service at the ‘simple’ end of the aggregator model 
spectrum are access to lender agreements and product selection software.  
53. 
Broker platforms range from ‘full service’ franchise models through to simple, 
low cost models providing a product access portal and remuneration 
management.  Challenger’s FAST broker platform is an example of a simple, low 
cost model, as is Connective’s model, while the PLAN and Choice broker 
platforms are more akin to full service broker platforms. 


National Australia Bank - proposed acquisition of mortgage management business from 
Challenger Financial Services Group 
-11- 
54. 
There are over 150 aggregators actively operating in Australia. Over recent years, 
several new entrant aggregators have gained scale quite rapidly, including 
Connective, established in 2003. 
55. 
The ACCC concluded that under normal market conditions, barriers to entry are 
likely to be low for establishing broker platform services as there is limited 
capital required and the necessary software can be leased. 
Availability of substitutes 
56. 
The ACCC concluded that competition offered from alternative suppliers of 
home loans will continue to constrain NAB in the supply of home loans post 
merger. 
57. 
The ACCC found, based on market inquiries, that brokers may source mortgage 
products from a wide range of potential lenders. Market inquiries also provided 
that brokers have effective alternatives in their dealings with mortgage 
aggregators as a result of their ability to switch between broker platforms.  
58. 
The ACCC conducted detailed analysis of the existence of restrictive conditions 
in the contractual terms agreed between brokers and mortgage aggregators which 
may prevent brokers from switching to rival broker platforms. Aggregator-broker 
contracts are not uniform across the industry. Accordingly, the incumbent 
agreements with brokers vary by aggregators with respect to the effort and cost 
involved in transition to another aggregator or with respect to restrictive 
conditions with regard to retaining commission trail. 
59. 
Market inquires revealed many aggregators consider that the restrictions on the 
retention of commission trail are predominantly a legacy issue and one that the 
industry is gradually moving away from.  
Ability to influence brokers to redirect flows to NAB products 
60. 
The ACCC considered that post-merger, NAB would not obtain the ability to use 
its position as owner of the three mortgage aggregator platforms to induce 
mortgage brokers to redirect flows to NAB products and thus originate a larger 
share of home loans. 
61. 
As discussed above, market inquiries revealed that although the three mortgage 
aggregator platforms to be acquired by NAB account for approximately 40% of 
flows of products distributed via mortgage brokers, brokers have a number of 
effective substitutes, including dealing direct with lenders. 
62. 
Market inquiries indicated that in practice it is difficult for lenders to direct or 
mandate affiliated brokers to only sell their products as the whole brokerage 
industry is founded on brokers comparing mortgage products and finding the 
product that best suits a customers needs.  
63. 
Market participants consistently provided that it is unlikely NAB would be able 
to compel affiliated brokers to recommend NAB products as this would destroy 


National Australia Bank - proposed acquisition of mortgage management business from 
Challenger Financial Services Group 
-12- 
the value proposition offered by brokers and would result in an outflow of 
brokers to rival mortgage aggregators. 
64. 
Accordingly, it was found that post-merger, NAB would not have obtained 
sufficient market power through the acquisition of the three mortgage aggregator 
platforms to significantly influence brokers to redirect flows to NAB products. 
Foreclosure by restricting rival lenders from lender panels of broker platforms 
 
65. 
The ACCC considered that post-merger, NAB would not obtain the ability to use 
its position as owner of the three broker platforms to restrict rival lenders from 
participating in lender panels on these platforms.  
66. 
Market inquiries showed that if NAB were to restrict rival lenders from being on 
the panel of lenders for the acquired broker platforms, NAB would likely see a 
mass defection of mortgage brokers from its broker platforms as it impedes the 
broker’s value proposition. 
67. 
Further, brokers also have the option of going direct to a lender rather than 
through the aggregator’s platform. Accordingly, in instances where affiliated 
brokers deal directly with rival lenders outside of its aggregator platform, NAB 
would forego a share of revenue it otherwise would have received if it were to 
restrict lenders from participating on lender panels. 
Foreclosure by restricting affiliated brokers from switching to rival aggregators 
 
68. 
The ACCC considered whether NAB would have the ability and incentive to vary 
the terms of its broker-aggregator contracts to introduce increased restrictions on 
commission trails for exiting brokers. That is, whether NAB is likely to insert 
‘handcuff’ clauses into its broker-aggregator agreements to reduce the ability of 
brokers to switch to rival broker platforms. 
69. 
Market inquiries provided that as brokers rely on ongoing commission trail, 
restrictive conditions which limit the provision of commission trail upon a broker 
transferring to another broker platform may restrict affiliated brokers from 
switching to rival platforms. Market participants provided that the willingness of 
a broker to switch despite restrictive conditions on commission trail will depend 
on the value of the business they have built up with the relevant platform. 
70. 
Industry trends have moved towards the removal of restrictions on brokers 
receiving commission trail upon switching to a rival aggregator platform such 
that commission trails will continue to be paid to the non-member broker. This 
has followed the recent entry of broker platforms which do not include restrictive 
conditions on commission trail, such as the Connective model. 
71. 
The ACCC concluded that NAB is unlikely to attempt to ‘handcuff’ brokers to its 
broker platforms by introducing increased restrictions on commission trail.  
72. 
The ACCC’s market inquiries indicated that such a strategy would discourage 
new brokers from becoming affiliated with NAB’s broker platform/s and would 


National Australia Bank - proposed acquisition of mortgage management business from 
Challenger Financial Services Group 
-13- 
still result in an outflow of brokers that do not have a significant value of 
business built up with the relevant platform.  
73. 
Further, direct dealings between brokers and rival lending institutions will also 
limit the profitability of a strategy of raising restrictions for brokers in switching 
to other broker platforms. 
Foreclosure by refusing to deal with other aggregators/brokers 
 
74. 
The ACCC considered whether NAB would have the ability and incentive to 
refuse to deal with other aggregators/brokers, for instance, by removing itself as a 
lender from other aggregator panels. 
75. 
Market inquiries provided that while NAB may have the ability to stop dealing 
with other aggregators/brokers and only accredit the 5,500 brokers on the 
Challenger broker platforms, that it would be unlikely to have any incentive to 
remove itself from the panels of other aggregators. 
76. 
The ACCC found that NAB’s presence in the market for the supply of home 
loans is not large enough to provide it with the incentive to remove itself from the 
panels of other aggregator platforms as this would limit distribution of NAB 
home loan products.  
77. 
Notwithstanding, the ACCC considered that even if NAB did remove itself from 
other aggregators’ lender panels, this would be unlikely to substantially hinder 
the ability of those aggregators to compete effectively. 
Access to commercially sensitive information 
 
78. 
The ACCC considered whether NAB would obtain access to commercially 
sensitive information of rival lenders as a result of its operation of the broker 
platforms. Market inquiries provided that NAB may potentially have access to 
commission rates, product pricing, credit policy information and customer details 
of its rival lenders via the broker platforms. 
79. 
The ACCC concluded that ownership of broker platforms will not enhance the 
ability to access commercially sensitive information to the extent that this is 
likely to have a material impact on the competitive dynamic for the supply of 
home loans.  
80. 
In respect of product pricing, commission rate and credit policy information, 
market participants consistently submitted that this information is either publicly 
available from market intelligence websites or can be obtained relatively easily 
from brokers. 
81. 
In respect of customer details, market inquiries provided that several restraints 
exist to prevent NAB from using rival lenders customer information for 
marketing purposes, including confidentiality provisions and reputational risks.  


National Australia Bank - proposed acquisition of mortgage management business from 
Challenger Financial Services Group 
-14- 
82. 
Based on market inquiries, the ACCC concluded that the benefits to NAB of 
using customer information of rival lenders for marketing purposes are likely to 
be low given that broker-sourced customers have demonstrated a preference and 
propensity to seek advice from a broker, rather than responding to bank 
marketing. Further, the risks of using customer information of rival lenders for 
marketing purposes is likely to be high as NAB would likely expose itself to 
reputational risks and many brokers may exercise their discretion to switch to an 
alternate aggregator.  
Conclusion 
83. 
The ACCC found that in respect of "white label" wholesale mortgage lending and 
manufacture of retail mortgage products, the proposed acquisition would not 
result in a significant increase in market concentration, and the merged entity is 
likely to be constrained by other suppliers of wholesale mortgages. 
84. 
Further, the ACCC found that although the merger would result in the acquisition 
of a number of broker platforms by NAB, it would be unlikely to use its control 
of these platforms to favour its own products; constrain the ability of other 
lenders to utilise these platforms; remove its products from competing platforms; 
or restrict the ability of mortgage brokers to utilise other platforms to the extent 
that this would be likely to result in a substantial lessening of competition. 
85. 
On the basis of the factors set out above, the ACCC formed the view that the 
proposed acquisition would be unlikely to result in a substantial lessening of 
competition in the national market for the supply of home loans.  
 
