 
Public Competition Assessment 
14 June 2012 
FOXTEL - proposed acquisition of Austar United Communications 
Limited 
 
Introduction 
1. 
On 10 April 2012, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission 
(ACCC) announced its decision not to oppose the proposed acquisition of Austar 
United Communications Limited (Austar) by FOXTEL Management Pty Ltd 
(FOXTEL) (the proposed acquisition), subject to undertakings accepted by the 
ACCC on 9 April 2012 (the undertakings) pursuant to section 87B of the 
Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth) (the Act). The ACCC decided that the 
proposed acquisition, in conjunction with the undertakings, would be unlikely to 
have the effect of substantially lessening competition in any market in 
contravention of section 50 of the Act. . 
2. 
The ACCC made its decision based on the information provided by the merger 
parties and information arising from its market inquiries. This Public Competition 
Assessment outlines the basis on which the ACCC reached its decision on the 
proposed acquisition, subject to confidentiality considerations. 
Public Competition Assessment 
3. 
To provide an enhanced level of transparency and procedural fairness in its 
decision making process, the ACCC issues a Public Competition Assessment for 
all transaction proposals where: 
 a merger is opposed; 
 a merger is subject to enforceable undertakings; 
 the merger parties seek such disclosure; or 
 a merger is not opposed but raises important issues that the ACCC considers 
should be made public. 
4. 
This Public Competition Assessment has been issued because FOXTEL’s 


 
-2- 
proposed acquisition of Austar United Communications Limited is subject to 
court enforceable undertakings. 
5. 
By issuing Public Competition Assessments, the ACCC aims to provide the 
public with a better understanding of the ACCC’s analysis of various markets and 
the associated merger and competition issues. It also alerts the public to 
circumstances where the ACCC’s assessment of the competition conditions in 
particular markets is changing, or likely to change.  
6. 
Each Public Competition Assessment is specific to the particular transaction 
under review by the ACCC. While some transaction proposals may involve the 
same or related markets, it should not be assumed that the analysis and decision 
outlined in one Public Competition Assessment will be conclusive of the ACCC’s 
view in respect of other transaction proposals, as each matter will be considered 
on its own facts.  
7. 
Public Competition Assessments outline the ACCC’s principal reasons for 
forming views on a proposed acquisition at the time the decision was made. As 
such Public Competition Assessments may not definitively identify and explain 
all issues that the ACCC considers arise from a proposed acquisition. Further, the 
ACCC’s decisions generally involve consideration of both non-confidential and 
confidential information provided by the merger parties and market participants. 
In order to maintain the confidentiality of particular information, Public 
Competition Assessments do not contain any confidential information or its 
sources. 
The Parties 
FOXTEL 
8. 
FOXTEL is owned by Telstra Corporation Ltd (50%), News Corporation Ltd 
(25%), and Consolidated Media Holdings Limited (25%). The ownership 
structure of FOXTEL is depicted in Figure 1, below.


 
-3- 
 
Figure 1 
 
 
 
9. 
FOXTEL is Australia’s largest subscription television provider delivering 
audiovisual content to  more than 1.6 million residential subscribers in 
metropolitan Australia.  
10. 
FOXTEL delivers more than 200 channels, including high definition (HD) 
content, covering news, sport, general entertainment, movies, documentaries, 
music and children’s programming.  
11. 
Other FOXTEL services include: 
 services delivered through Telstra Mobile 
 live broadcasts on Virgin Australia aircraft 
 delivery of content via subscribers’ personal computers 
 delivery of content via Microsoft Xbox 
 on demand programming via the internet. 
12. 
FOXTEL had revenue of $2.1 billion in 2010-11.  
Austar United Communications Limited 
13. 
Prior to its acquisition by Foxtel, Austar was listed on the Australian Securities 
Exchange. Liberty Global, an international media company based in the United 
Kingdom, owned a 54.2% indirect majority interest in Austar as at 31 March 
2011. The remainder of the issued capital were publicly held. 


 
-4- 
14. 
Austar had more than 750,000 subscribers. Austar’s coverage area was 
approximately 2.4 million homes in regional and rural Australia, as well as the 
Gold Coast, Darwin and Hobart. 
15. 
Austar provided over 180 “premier” channels and 13 HD Channels. 
16. 
Austar had a 50% stake in XYZnetworks (a 50/50 joint venture with FOXTEL). 
XYZnetworks was the exclusive owner and/or distributor of twelve key channels 
including Arena, a number of Lifestyle-branded channels and VH1. 
Other Industry Participants 
Content producers, owners and suppliers 
17. 
Content suppliers provide audiovisual content rights in a number of different 
formats, including stand alone programs or series of programs (e.g. drama 
programming and sports events) to broadcasters. Content is supplied to 
subscription television providers as channels or channel groups. Content suppliers 
source both domestic and international content from rights holders such as movie 
studios, sporting bodies (eg. the AFL and NRL), as well as from local production 
companies and commercial broadcasters producing content ‘in-house’.  
18. 
FOXTEL is also a wholesale supplier of original programming and aggregates its 
own linear channels using programs produced by or for FOXTEL as well as 
acquired from other content suppliers. Channels produced by FOXTEL in this 
way include FOX8 and the Comedy Channel. 
Suppliers of content to consumers 
19. 
Content is supplied to end consumers in a number of ways: 
 through subscription television services supplied over cable and satellite 
(FOXTEL and Austar)  
 by digital terrestrial signals produced by commercial and national free-to-air 
(FTA) broadcasters (including ABC, SBS, Seven, Nine and Ten)1 
 through over the top subscription television services supplied via internet 
protocol (IPTV) (such as Fetch TV and FOXTEL on T-Box) 
                                                 
1 These broadcasters also offer ‘catch-up’ services where consumers can view certain programs over the 
internet after they have been broadcast through the terrestrial signal. 


 
-5- 
 through linear channels, catch-up and streaming content supplied over the 
internet to various devices including computers, smartphones and tablets 
(e.g., iTunes, Apple TV, Google, YouTube, internet ready TVs, Sony 
Playstation). This includes video on demand services streamed or downloaded 
over the internet to various devices, on both a transactional (TVOD) or 
subscription (SVOD) basis. 
 streaming or downloads of content to mobile devices including smart phones 
and an array of new ‘pad’ and ‘tablet’ style devices which can access 
audiovisual content based on pay-per-view and subscription models (e.g., 
Telstra’s mobile FOXTEL, Vodafone/3) 
 rentals and sale of digital video discs. 
Telecommunications providers 
20. 
There are a number of telecommunications providers in Australia, such as 
Telstra, Optus, iiNet and TPG, which provide telecommunications services such 
as fixed line telephony, broadband and related services. Many of these providers 
also offer some form of audiovisual content to their customers. 
21. 
Telstra is a 50% shareholder in FOXTEL and  is the major wholesale and retail 
supplier of telecommunications services in Australia, including: 
 local, national, long-distance, international and mobile telephony 
 broadband access and content 
 data and internet services (including through Telstra BigPond) 
 wholesale services to other carriers, carriage service providers and ISPs 
 advertising, search and information services (through Sensis); and 
 subscription TV. 
22. 
In addition to the above services, FOXTEL and Telstra agreed in 2011 to provide 
FOXTEL content on the Telstra T-Box by way of IPTV to end consumers in 
metropolitan areas of Australia. The T-Box is a digital set top box which connects 
a television to a broadband service in order to provide internet delivered and free-
to-air entertainment. A range of FOXTEL packages are available for Telstra 
customers to acquire through the T-Box. 
Timing 
The following table outlines the timeline of key events in this matter. 
Date 
Event 


 
-6- 
26-May-11 
ACCC commenced review under the Merger Review Process Guidelines. 
16-Jun-11 
Closing date for submissions from interested parties. 
22-Jul-11 
ACCC published a Statement of Issues outlining its preliminary competition 
concerns. 
11-Aug-11 
Closing date for submissions relating to Statement of Issues. 
19-Aug-11 
ACCC requested further information from the merger parties. ACCC timeline  
suspended pending receipt.  
14-Oct-11 
ACCC received further information from the merger parties. ACCC timeline 
recommenced. New decision date of 30 November 2011 indicated 
28-Nov-11 
ACCC timeline suspended at the request of FOXTEL to allow it to make 
further submissions.  
7-Mar-12 
ACCC commenced market inquiries on a draft s.87B undertaking proffered 
by the parties. ACCC timeline recommenced with an indicative decision date 
of 29 March 2012. 
20-Mar-12 
Closing date for submissions relating to draft s.87B undertaking. 
27-Mar-12 
ACCC timeline suspended to allow FOXTEL and the ACCC to continue 
negotiations on the draft s.87B undertaking.  
5-Apr-12 
ACCC timeline recommenced providing an indicative decision date of 10 
April 2012 
9-Apr-12 
87B undertaking accepted by ACCC. 
10-Apr-12 
ACCC announced it would not oppose the proposed acquisition with the 
undertaking. 
 
Market inquiries 
23. 
The ACCC consulted widely with industry participants including subscription 
television providers, FTA television operators, content owners, 
telecommunications companies, internet service providers (ISPs), other current 
and potential suppliers of content to consumers and industry groups. 
Statement of Issues 
24. 
The ACCC published a Statement of Issues on 22 July 2011 identifying a number 
of potential competition concerns. In the Statement of Issues the ACCC stated its 
preliminary view that the proposed acquisition would likely lead to a substantial 
lessening of competition in the following markets: 
 the national market for the supply of subscription television services; 
 the national market for the acquisition of audiovisual content; and 
 a number of markets for the supply of telecommunications products.  
With/without test 
25. 
In assessing a merger pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC  considers the 
effects of the merger by comparing the likely competitive environment post-
merger if the merger proceeds (the “with” position) to the likely future 


 
-7- 
competitive environment if the merger does not proceed (the “without” position). 
26. 
During its assessment of the proposed acquisition, the ACCC took into account a 
number of potential future scenarios. Where relevant, these are discussed in the 
analysis below. 
Market definition 
27. 
The ACCC considered that the following two markets were most relevant to the 
assessment of the competitive impact of the proposed acquisition: 
 the national market for the retail supply of subscription television services; 
and 
 a number of regional markets for the supply of fixed broadband and fixed 
voice telephony products. 
28. 
The ACCC also considered the impact of the proposed acquisition in content 
acquisition markets and in the supply of subscription television services to 
consumers on the Gold Coast. 
National market for the supply of subscription television services  
29. 
The ACCC formed the view that there was a national market for the supply of 
subscription television services. Other sources of supply of audiovisual content to 
end consumers including FTA television, mobile TV and audiovisual content 
delivered on a transactional basis, including over the internet, were not 
sufficiently close substitutes to be considered in the same market as subscription 
television services. 
Characteristics of subscription television services 
30. 
Subscription television providers typically deliver a package of multiple linear 
television channels, each of which generally conforms to a particular genre or 
subject (such as children’s television or sport). Subscription television usually 
includes niche programming and often repeat programming at different times and 
dates. 
31. 
Subscription television is provided to subscribers for a fee and is delivered to 
subscribers’ televisions, traditionally via cable or satellite distribution systems. 
However, based on information available to the ACCC, IPTV appeared to be 
emerging as a potentially significant alternative delivery mechanism through 
which subscription television could be provided to end consumers.  


 
-8- 
Subscription video on demand services 
32. 
The ACCC also considered that SVOD services were likely to become closer 
substitutes for traditional subscription television, particularly for certain types of 
content such as movies. SVOD exhibits many of the same characteristics as 
subscription television. SVOD typically involves the consumer paying a regular 
fixed fee for a selection of aggregated content. The most significant difference 
from other subscription television services is that the consumer has a significant 
degree of freedom to determine the scheduling and precise composition of 
programming.  
FTA television services 
33. 
The ACCC recognised that FTA television operators compete to some extent 
with subscription television providers for the supply of audiovisual content to end 
consumers.  
34. 
The ACCC formed the view that FTA television was not a sufficiently close 
substitute to be considered in the relevant market for the purposes of this 
competition analysis. The ACCC considered that the availability of FTA 
television, in combination with other sources of audiovisual content, would be 
likely to provide an ultimate competitive constraint to subscription television, but 
that other subscription television services were closer substitutes. If there was a 
market with multiple subscription television service providers, the competition 
between those providers would be significantly closer and more vigorous than 
between the subscription television providers and FTA television broadcasters. 
Other audiovisual content delivery services 
35. 
The ACCC considered that mobile television services were unlikely to be close 
substitutes for subscription television services. However, the ability for a 
subscription television service provider to be able to offer a roaming service (on 
tablet devices or mobile phones) in conjunction with or as an adjunct to their 
main television service, was considered to be of increasing importance in the 
marketplace and may improve the attractiveness of those subscription television 
services. 
36. 
The ACCC also considered that there was limited substitution between 
subscription television services and audiovisual content acquired by consumers 
on a transactional basis, including physical movie rental and online TVOD. On 
the basis of the available information, the ACCC considered that these types of 
services were more complementary to other types of audiovisual content delivery 


 
-9- 
services than substitutes for them, either being utilised at different times or places 
than those services, or as a supplement to those audiovisual content delivery 
services. Like mobile content services, TVOD services were considered to be 
important services to be offered in conjunction or as an adjunct to the core 
subscription television offer. 
Conclusion 
37. 
In conclusion, the ACCC considered there was a national market for the supply of 
subscription television services, delivered by any distribution method including 
cable, satellite and IPTV. The ACCC considered that SVOD was likely to 
become a closer substitute for subscription television over time, particularly in 
relation to certain types of content such as movies. Based on available 
information, the ACCC considered that other sources of supply of audiovisual 
content to end consumers including FTA television, mobile TV and audiovisual 
content delivered on a transactional basis, including over the internet, were not 
sufficiently close substitutes to be considered in the same market as subscription 
television services. 
National market for the acquisition of audiovisual content 
38. 
The ACCC formed the view that there was a national market for the acquisition 
of audiovisual content.  
39. 
The ACCC recognised that in this market, the closeness of competition between 
subscription television and FTA providers varied. For certain types of content, for 
example individual entertainment programs and some sporting events, 
subscription television providers and FTA television operators compete. 
However, for other types of content such as complete linear channels, FTA 
television provided little or no constraint on subscription television. 
40. 
The ACCC did not consider it necessary to decide whether there were separate 
markets for the acquisition of particular content, such as the major sporting rights. 
Regional markets for the supply of telecommunications services 
41. 
The ACCC considered that it was also relevant to assess the competitive impact 
of the proposed acquisition in a number of relevant telecommunications product 
markets in regional areas, in particular, in relation to the supply of broadband, 
fixed voice telephony and mobile telephony.  However, for the purposes of this 
review, it was not necessary for the ACCC to precisely define the product or 
geographic dimensions of these markets. 


 
-10- 
Barriers to Entry 
 
42. 
The ACCC assessed the nature and extent of any barriers to entry or expansion in 
the market for the supply of subscription television services to end consumers.  
The ACCC also considered whether barriers to entry or expansion in this market 
would increase as a result of the proposed acquisition. 
43. 
The ACCC considered that the most significant barriers to entry and expansion in 
this market were related to: 
 infrastructure; and 
 access to content. 
44. 
The ACCC also considered that issues relating to having access to an established 
customer base were relevant to access to content barriers. 
Barriers to entry: Infrastructure 
45. 
The ACCC considered that the sunk costs related to the infrastructure required to 
establish a subscription television service distributed, by either a cable or 
satellite, were very high and likely to be considered insurmountable. As a result, 
the ACCC considered that new entry to this market via cable or satellite would be 
highly unlikely.  
46. 
However, the ACCC considered that there were a number of technological 
developments which were likely to facilitate the roll out of subscription television 
services using IPTV. The ACCC considered that these developments had the 
potential to lower the infrastructure barriers to entry for subscription television 
service providers. In this regard, the ACCC noted the entry of FetchTV as well as 
other competitors. 
47. 
Accordingly, the ACCC considered that while the infrastructure barriers to entry 
in the subscription television market were previously very high, particularly over 
traditional networks, they were reducing over time and would continue to break 
down in line with technological developments. 
Barriers to entry: Compelling content 
48. 
The ACCC considered that the most significant barrier to entry in the market for 
the supply of subscription television to consumers was the acquisition of certain 
audiovisual content including on an exclusive basis.  


 
-11- 
49. 
The ACCC consulted widely on this issue to ascertain the nature and extent of the 
barriers to entry and expansion arising from content exclusivity. Market 
participants identified an inability to access compelling content as the most 
significant barrier to entry in the market for the supply of subscription television.  
50. 
The ACCC also formed the view that, even in the absence of the proposed 
acquisition, the acquisition of certain audiovisual content rights on an exclusive 
basis was a significant barrier to entry in the market for the supply of subscription 
television. Through the acquisition of content on an exclusive basis, FOXTEL 
and Austar had been able to attract large numbers of end consumers, which in 
turn increased the attractiveness of their platforms to content rights holders. This 
further enhanced their ability to obtain content on an exclusive basis and attract 
additional subscribers. 
51. 
Moreover, the ACCC considered that the increased scale of the merged firm 
would, to some extent, further increase the ability of the merged firm to obtain 
some content on an exclusive basis, particularly content for which FOXTEL and 
Austar bid independently. This may have had the effect of further increasing 
barriers to entry.  
Competition Analysis 
52. 
The ACCC considered that, in the absence of the undertaking, the proposed 
acquisition would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of substantially 
lessening competition in: 
 the national market for the retail supply of subscription television services; 
and 
 a number of regional markets for the supply of fixed broadband and fixed 
voice telephony products. 
53. 
The foundation of the ACCC’s concern was that the proposed acquisition would:  
 bring together the two market participants in Australia who had a substantial 
customer base in subscription television and access to compelling content; 
and 
 extend Telstra’s 50% ownership from one of those key players (i.e. 
FOXTEL), to both of them (i.e. FOXTEL and Austar).  
54. 
Based on information obtained during the course of its review of the proposed 
acquisition, the ACCC considered that three primary structural issues were 


 
-12- 
generally relevant to competition in telecommunications and audiovisual markets 
in the context of the proposed acquisition: 
 access to content delivery infrastructure;  
 access to compelling content; and 
 an established substantial subscription television customer base.  
55. 
The ACCC considered that Austar had a distinct and established substantial 
customer base; actual or potential independent access to compelling content; and 
access to satellite content delivery infrastructure. The proposed acquisition would 
consolidate these three core structural underpinnings in FOXTEL. 
56. 
Without the proposed acquisition, there would have been greater potential for 
competition between Austar and FOXTEL and Telstra in the subscription 
television and telecommunications markets. That potential competition could 
have unfolded in a number of ways. The ACCC considered that the two most 
likely scenarios were: 
 Austar independently entering into telecommunications markets by offering 
consumers bundles comprising subscription television content and 
telecommunications services or entering alliances with ISPs to offer such 
bundles; and/or 
 the breaking down of historical geographic broadcast rights demarcation 
between FOXTEL and Austar, particularly through the emergence of national 
content delivery competition using IPTV.  
Telecommunications markets 
57. 
The ACCC considered that if the proposed acquisition proceeded: 
 Telstra’s ownership of 50% of a combined FOXTEL-Austar would be likely 
to limit the development of competition in markets for the supply of fixed 
broadband and fixed voice services; and 
 Telstra, by virtue of its shareholder relationship with FOXTEL, would be 
likely to obtain preferential access to audiovisual content from FOXTEL and 
the proposed acquisition would have extended this advantage to the distinct 
geographic areas serviced by Austar.  
58. 
Further, as telecommunications networks and IPTV continued to develop, the 
ACCC considered that it would be likely that it would become increasingly 
important for retail telecommunications service providers to be able to offer 


 
-13- 
consumers bundles comprised of  subscription television content with fixed voice 
and broadband services in order to be able to compete effectively with other retail 
telecommunications service providers. The increasing importance and value of 
bundling compounded the ACCC’s competition concerns arising from the 
proposed acquisition because: 
 entry by Austar into telecommunications markets would become both more 
likely to occur and more likely to have a significant competitive impact 
absent the acquisition, given Austar’s ability to offer compelling subscription 
television content; and 
 the competitive advantage enjoyed by Telstra by virtue of its shareholder 
relationship with FOXTEL and consequently, the detrimental effect of 
extending this relationship to Austar, would be likely to increase. 
Subscription television market 
59. 
Without the proposed acquisition, the ACCC considered that as 
telecommunications networks and content delivery platforms developed and 
improved, FOXTEL and/or Austar would have been likely to develop IPTV 
services that were differentiated from their existing satellite and cable 
subscription television services.  
60. 
Additionally, the ACCC considered that FOXTEL and Austar were likely to have 
an incentive to supply their differentiated IPTV services on a national basis. Over 
time, this would make it increasingly likely that the historical geographic 
demarcation of broadcast rights between FOXTEL and Austar would have broken 
down. For this differentiated competition to be effective, FOXTEL and/or Austar 
would not have needed to replicate all of their satellite broadcast content  in an 
IPTV service, and the content on those services could have continued to be 
developed over time.  
61. 
The ACCC considered that FOXTEL and Austar would have been in the best 
position to access the necessary rights to develop strong competitive national 
IPTV products, either directly or in partnership with other parties such as Telstra 
or other telecommunications service providers, given their existing relationships 
with content suppliers arising from access to an existing substantial subscription 
television customer base. 
Conclusion 
62. 
The ACCC was concerned that the proposed acquisition would have: 


 
-14- 
 foreclosed potential future competition between FOXTEL and Austar in the 
supply of  subscription television services, particularly by way of IPTV 
delivery;  
 foreclosed potential future competition between Telstra and Austar in the 
supply of telecommunications services; and 
 allowed the merged entity to leverage its substantial customer base in the 
national market for the retail supply of subscription television services to 
acquire IPTV rights on an exclusive basis and consequently constrain 
competitive entry or expansion by other parties. 
Other issues 
Content acquisition 
63. 
The ACCC also considered whether the proposed acquisition was likely to result 
in a substantial lessening of competition in the national market for the acquisition 
of audiovisual content.  
64. 
The ACCC noted that FOXTEL and Austar previously submitted joint bids or 
otherwise aggregated their buying power for particular content, particularly many 
sports rights. In instances where FOXTEL and Austar were jointly bidding or 
aggregating their buying power, the ACCC considered that the proposed 
acquisition was unlikely to substantially change the competitive dynamic in 
relation to the acquisition of audiovisual content, particularly for cable and 
satellite distribution rights. 
65. 
The ACCC considered that to the extent that competition in the market for the 
acquisition of audiovisual content was likely to be impacted by the proposed 
acquisition, any such effect was further limited as a result of the undertaking. As 
outlined below, the undertaking precludes FOXTEL from acquiring certain 
audiovisual content for distribution on IPTV on an exclusive basis. The 
undertaking is intended to limit the ability of FOXTEL to take advantage of its 
increased subscriber base arising from the proposed acquisition, to achieve 
favourable contract terms. This gives new competitors the opportunity to acquire 
certain content and compete with FOXTEL in the market for the supply of 
subscription television services. The ACCC notes that much of the content for 
which FOXTEL and Austar did not submit joint bids or aggregate their buying 
power is subject to the non-exclusivity prohibition in the undertaking. 


 
-15- 
Supply of subscription television to consumers on the Gold Coast   
66. 
While FOXTEL and Austar otherwise supplied subscription television services in 
different geographic markets, they overlapped in the supply of subscription 
television services to residential and commercial customers in the Gold Coast 
region. FOXTEL and Austar each standardised many elements of their respective 
subscription television offerings on a national basis (including the pricing of 
packages). The ACCC’s investigations found that there were some differences 
between the offerings of FOXTEL and Austar to customers on the Gold Coast 
(which generally reflected differences in the national offers of the two 
companies), but did not consider that the differences were meaningful enough 
that the removal of this choice to customers on the Gold Coast would constitute a 
substantial lessening of competition for the purposes of the Act. 
67. 
The ACCC also considered that the undertaking had the potential to increase 
competition in subscription television markets, which could be of benefit to 
customers on the Gold Coast. 
Undertaking 
68. 
On 9 April 2012, the ACCC accepted a court enforceable undertaking from 
FOXTEL, pursuant to section 87B of the Act. 
Key elements of the undertaking 
69. 
The core element of the undertaking is an obligation on FOXTEL not to acquire 
certain distribution rights to certain independent content on an exclusive basis. 
These distribution rights include IPTV and some mobile distribution rights, but 
exclude most satellite and cable distribution rights. The undertaking also prevents 
FOXTEL from acquiring those same rights from anyone if an ultimate 
shareholder, or related entity of an ultimate shareholder, acquires those rights on 
an exclusive basis. 
70. 
The content protected by the undertaking includes linear channels offered by 
independent content suppliers, subscription video on demand (SVOD) rights from 
independent content suppliers for programs that are under licence for their linear 
channel, linear movie rights and current SVOD movie rights from 50% of the 
major movie studios and 50% of eight named independent studios, movie TVOD 
rights and library SVOD movie rights. The undertaking also prevents FOXTEL 
from preventing a party which acquires any of the above rights from offering a 
‘companion’ mobile service using that content. 


 
-16- 
71. 
As the ACCC’s competition concerns primarily related to competition using 
IPTV technology, FOXTEL will retain the ability to acquire exclusive rights for 
the distribution of content by cable, satellite and mobile networks to mobile 
devices (other than ‘companion’ mobile rights). 
72. 
In addition, the  undertaking aims to further lower barriers to entry by providing 
necessary signal access to linear channels distributed by independent content 
suppliers (and which FOXTEL itself distributes to its subscribers) to third parties. 
73. 
The undertaking also extends FOXTEL’s Special Access Undertaking,2 so that 
content providers can access Austar subscribers as well as the existing 
arrangements for FOXTEL subscribers. The Special Access Undertaking 
provides terms on which content providers are able to access FOXTEL set top 
boxes for the purpose of providing services to FOXTEL’s customers. 
Objective of the undertaking 
74. 
The objective of the undertaking is to address the ACCC’s concerns about 
competitive detriment that would otherwise arise as a result of the proposed 
acquisition. 
75. 
As outlined above, the ACCC considered that as markets and content delivery 
technologies developed, IPTV was likely to be a critical area of potential 
competition between FOXTEL and Austar. In addition, as IPTV was a 
developing content delivery mechanism, it exhibited dynamic characteristics 
which created the potential for new entrants into the market, provided that the 
merged entity was unable to act to prevent this emerging competition. 
76. 
Thus, the undertaking aims to address the ACCC’s concerns by preventing 
FOXTEL from entering into arrangements with certain content suppliers to 
acquire content on an exclusive basis so as to enable competing content 
aggregators and/or telecommunications service providers to bid to acquire rights 
to content which can be provided as part of an IPTV service. Such exclusive 
arrangements would have had the potential to stifle new entry in the IPTV sector 
before new entrants were able to achieve sufficient scale in the market to 
effectively compete with incumbent providers for access to that content. 
                                                 
2 Special Access Undertaking to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission under 
Subdivision B of Division 5 of Part XIC of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth) executed by FOXTEL 
Management Pty Ltd for and on behalf of the FOXTEL Partnership and FOXTEL Cable Television Pty 
Ltd on 1 December 2006 


 
-17- 
77. 
 By reducing exclusive rights to content, the undertaking aims to lower barriers to 
entry and allow new or enhanced competition in telecommunications and 
subscription television markets. The undertaking aims to make available 
sufficient attractive content to emerging competitors to enable them to develop 
competitive and sustainable IPTV offers.  
78. 
The undertaking is directed at reducing FOXTEL’s ability, directly or indirectly, 
to take advantage of its substantial subscriber base to obtain exclusive rights to 
attractive content. This in turn is intended to present opportunities for smaller 
competitors or new entrants to develop attractive content services and grow a 
sufficient subscriber base to be able to maintain and continue to develop 
competitive IPTV offers after the undertaking has expired. The ACCC considers 
that this approach is most likely to reduce barriers to entry without dampening 
incentives for content suppliers or subscription television operators to be 
innovative and competitive.  
79. 
The undertaking does not prevent FOXTEL from acquiring exclusive rights in 
relation to individual sports. The ACCC considered that to the extent that 
FOXTEL's (and its shareholders’) ownership of exclusive sports rights may raise 
competition concerns, these concerns existed independently of the proposed 
acquisition.  
Ultimate shareholders and the undertaking 
80. 
While the undertaking contains some provisions to prevent FOXTEL’s ultimate 
shareholders acting to circumvent FOXTEL’s obligations in the undertaking, the 
ACCC did not consider that it was necessary for any of FOXTEL’s ultimate 
shareholders to be a party to the undertaking in order to address the ACCC’s 
competition concerns.  
81. 
The ACCC considered that there is a meaningful difference in incentives between 
FOXTEL’s ultimate shareholders in relation to content acquisition and supply. In 
particular, the non-Telstra shareholders may have an incentive to allow FOXTEL 
to acquire IPTV rights and supply content to a broad range of parties, including 
competitors or potential competitors of Telstra.  
82. 
The ACCC also considered that the incentive of each ultimate shareholder to 
undertake costly exclusive content acquisitions which may have defensive 
benefits to FOXTEL is muted by virtue of them only having a partial 
shareholding in FOXTEL. 


 
-18- 
83. 
The undertaking also prohibits FOXTEL from bidding jointly or in concert with 
any of its ultimate shareholders for exclusive rights for any of the content that 
FOXTEL is prohibited from acquiring exclusively by the undertaking. This 
prohibition is intended to prevent FOXTEL’s ultimate shareholders from taking 
advantage of any increase in content buying power that FOXTEL gains from the 
acquisition of Austar’s customer base. 
 Duration of the undertaking 
84. 
The term of the undertaking is 8 years from the date on which the undertaking 
commenced (8 April 2012). The ACCC considered that this was an appropriate 
length of time for the undertaking to be in force for two main reasons. 
85. 
Firstly, all of the exclusive content supply agreements between FOXTEL and 
independent content suppliers in existence at the date of the undertaking will have 
expired by 2016, meaning that third parties should have a number of years after 
this date to negotiate content supply arrangements without FOXTEL having the 
ability to acquire the relevant rights on an exclusive basis.  
86. 
Secondly, the ACCC considered that this period of time should be sufficient to 
give new entrants the ability to enter the market, or for existing players to expand, 
and achieve sufficient scale to be able to compete in the market without the 
protections given by the undertaking. 
Conclusion 
87. 
On the basis of the above, and taking into account the undertakings proposed by 
FOXTEL and accepted by the ACCC, the ACCC formed the view that the 
proposed acquisition of Austar United Communications Limited by FOXTEL 
would not be likely to have the effect or be likely to have the effect of 
substantially lessening competition in any market in contravention of section 50 
of the Act. 
 
 
 
