Undertaking to the
Australian Competition
and Consumer
Commission
Given under section 87B of the Competition and
Consumer Act 2070 by Dollar Thrifty Automotive
Group, Inc. Hertz Australia Pty Ltd (ACN 004 407
087) and Hertz Global Holdings, Inc
June 2014
ME_1:3794999_I(W200?)


*
I.
This Undertaking is given to the Australian Competition and Consumer
Commission(ACCC) by:
(a) DollarThriftyAutomotive Group, Inc(DTAG); and
(b) HertzAustraliaPty Ltd (ACN 004 407 087)(HertzAustralia); and
(0) HertzGlobalHoldings, Inc(HertzGlobal).
2.
Background
Persons giving the Undertaking
The Acquisition
On 19 November 2012, Hertz Global Holdings inc (Hertz Global), a
2.1
company incorporated in Delaware, United States, acquired all the issued
shares in DTAG, a company incorporated in Delaware, United States
(Acquisition).
The parties to the Acquisition
2.2
Hertz Australia carries on, and operates a car rental business under the
'Hertz' brand in Australia, together with various licensees. Hertz Global is
the ultimate holding company of Hertz Australia.
The 'Thrifty' business in Australia (Thrifty Australia) is operated by
King, rim Pty Ltd, trading as Thrifty Car Rental(ACN 003 966 649)
(Kingmill), a wholly owned subsidiary of the National Roads and
Motorists' Association Linfited (ACT. I 090 839 197).
Kingrnillis the 'Master Licensee' (Master Licensee), and Doriar Rent A
Car, Inc and Thrifty Rent-A-Car System, inc are, together, the 'Licensor'
(Licensor), under a licence agreement (the License Agreememt), which
sets out the ternis of the licence arrangement in respect of the Thatty
Australia business operated by the Master Licensee,
Dollar Rent A Car, Inc and Thrifty Rent-A-Car System, inc are
subsidiaries ofDTAG.
The ACCC'sreview
2.3
2.4
2.5
2.6
The ACCC coriumenced apublic review of the Acquisition on 14
September 2012.
The ACCC has conducted market inquiries and considered infonnation
provided by Hertz, a range of industry participants and others, The
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission under
section 87B of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 by Dollar Thrifty Automotive
Group Inc. HertzAustralia Ply Ltd (ACN 004 407 087) and Hertz Global Holdings, Inc
2.7
ME 113794999_ItW2007)


*
purpose of the ACCC's marketinquiries was to assess whether or not the
Proposed Acquisition would have the effect, or be likely to have the
effect, of substantially lessening competition in any market in
contravention of section 50 of the Act.
The ACCC's competition concerns
2.8 The ACCC considered that, in the absence of this Undertaking and
amendments to the License Agreement, the Acquisition may be likely to
have the effect, of substantially lessening competition in the market(s) for
on-airport passenger vehicle rentals.
in the absence of this Undertaking, the ACCC was concerned that the
Acquisition would enable Hertz Global and/or Hertz Australia to exercise
direction or control over the operation of the Thrifty Australia business
and provide Hertz Australia with
to coriumercially and
competitiveIy sensitive financial and operational infonnation about the
Thrifty Australia business,
2.10 The ACCC was concerned that, following the Acquisition, the Thrifty
Australia business could cease to compete as a vigorous and effective
competitor independently of Hertz Australia and thereby remove or
weaken the competitive impact of one of Hertz Australia's tritee
significant competitors for the provision of passenger vehicle rentals from
on-airport locations, where barriers to entry and expansion appear to be
high. The ACCC was also concerned that the acquisition would weaken
competitive constraints on remaining suppliers, which may provide them
with an increased incentive or ability to increase prices and/or offer lower
levels of service and may also increase barriers to entry for on-airport
locations.
2.11 The ACCC was also concerned that the Acquisition would increase the
potential for. coordinated behaviour between Hertz Australia and the
Thrifty Australia business and for Hertz Australia to gain a competitive
advantage through access to collrrnercially and competitiveIy sensitive
infonnation about the operation of the Thrifty brand in Australia, which
would also weaken competitive tension in the market(s) for on-airport
passenger vehicle rentals.
Objective of this Undertaking
2.12 DTAG, Hertz Australia and Hertz Global have, without admission and
without accepting the validity of the ACCC's concerns, offered tins
2.9
access
2
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission under
section 87B of the Competition and Consumer Act 2070 by Dollar Thrifty Automotive
Group Inc. Hertz Australia Ply Ltd (ACN 004 407 087) and Hertz Global Holdings, Inc
ME 113794999 ItW2007)


Undertaking under section 87B of the Act to address the ACCC's
competition concerns in relation to the Acquisition.
In addition to DTAG, Hertz Australia and Hertz Global giving this
Undertaking, the Licensor and the Master Licensee have amended the
License Agreement in accordance with Schedule 2 of this Undertaking in
order to address the ACCC's concerns.
Together, the Undertaking and amendments to the License Agr. eement are
intended to address the ACCC's competition concerns and ensure that the
Thrifty Australia business continues to compete at arm's length with Hertz
Australia and any Australian Hertz Business by:
(a) ring-fencing the management of, and involvement in, the Thrifty
Australia business by DTAG and the Licensor from Hertz
Australiaand anyAustralianHertz Business;
(b) limiting the type and degree of specificity of financial and
operational infonnation required to be provided by the Thaifty
Australiabusinessto DTAG andthe Licensor;
(c) preventing HertzAustraliafr'omaccessingconfidentialinfonnation
and DTAG reservation systems relating to the Thrifty Australia
business; and
(d) the Licensor relinquishing certain rights it would otherwise have
had under the License Agreement in respect of the Thrifty
Australia business.
2.13
2.14
I.
3.
3 . I
Commencement of the Undertaking
The Undertaking conrrnences when:
(a) the Undertaking is executed by each of Hertz Global, DTAG and
Hertz Australia; and
(b) the Undertaking so executed is accepted by the ACCC.
Cessation of ongoing obligations
4.
Termination
This Undertaking tenninates on the earliest of:
4.1
(a) the date on whichthe License Agreement expires oristenninated;
3
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission under
section 87B of the Competition and Consumer Act 2070 by Dollar Thrifty Automotive
Group Inc. Hertz Australia Pty Ltd (ACN 004 407 087) and Hertz Global Holdings, Inc
ME 113794999 I(W2007)


*
(b)
the date on which the Licensor, DTAG, Hertz Global or any of
their Related Bodies Corporate cease to be the Licensor' under the
LicenseAgreement;
the date on which DTAG (or the Licensor) and Hertz Australia
cease to be Related Bodies Corporate; or
of their Related Bodies
DTAG or the Licensor or
upon
any
Corporate completing a Subsequent Transaction.
(c)
(d)
Notification
DTAG and Hertz Australia must notify the ACCC in writing within three
Business Days of terniination of this Undertaking.
Withdrawal
This Undertaking is taken to be withdrawn on the date on which the
4.3
ACCC consents in writing to the withdrawal of the Undertaking in
accordance with section 87B of the Act.
Revocation
4.4
The ACCC may, at any time, revoke in writing its acceptance of the
Undertaking ifthe ACCC becomes aware that any infonnation provided to
it by DTAG, Hertz Global or Hertz Australia was incorrect, maccurate or
misleading.
,^IaiVer
4.2
The ACCC may, at any time, expressly waive in writing any of the
obligations contained in this Undertaking or amend the date by which any
such obligation is to be satisfied.
Completion
Clauses I to 4 inclusive, clauses 8 to 14 inclusive and Schedule I survive
4.6
completion of the obligationsin clauses 5, 6 and 7 of this Undertaking.
4.5
5
Noinvolvement in management of Thrifty Australia
5.1 HertzAustraliamustnot:
(a) be involved in the management or operations of the Thrifty
Australia business;
(b) exercise, or purport to exercise, any right of the Licensor under the
License Agi'Gement mrespect of the Master Licensee.
Rill-fondm obli ations
4
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission under
section 87B of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 by Dollar Thrifty Automotive
Group Inc. Hertz Australia Pty Ltd (ACN 004 407 087) and Hertz Global Holdings, Inc
ME 113794999 Iru2007)


5.2 Hertz Global undertakes thatnoAustralianHertz Business will:
(a) be involved in the management or operations of the Thrifty
Australia business;
(b) exercise, orpurportto exercise, any right of the Licensor under the
License Agreement in respect of the Master Licensee.
DTAG must not be involved jilthe management or operations of the
Thrifty Australia business otherwise than in accordance with the License
Agreement.
Ring-fencing offinaneialand operational reports
DTAG, Hertz Global and their Related Bodies Corporate must ensure that
5.4
confidential infonnation relating to the Thrifty Australia business:
(a) obtained by the Licensor in its capacity asthe Licensor under the
License Agreement; or
(b) provided by the Master Licensee to a representative of the
Licensor or an independent party in compliance with its
obligations under the License Agreement, including:
(i) any financial or operational reportthe Master Licensee is
required to provide under Article 204. K. I of the License
Agreement;
armual financial statement the Master Licensee is
any
required to provide under Article 204. K. 2 of the License
Agreement; or
(in) records kept by the Master Licensee to which access is
provided to a nominated independent party under Articles
204. K. 4 of the License Agreement,
is not disclosed to, provided to or accessed by Hertz Australia or any
Australian Hertz Business or any other company willful the Hertz Group
that has direct operational or strategic responsibility in relation to any
Australian Hertz Business (which, for the avoidance of doubt, does not
include the provision of sinnmary reports or audit findings to a company
withn the Hertz Group with overall management or portfolio
responsibilities in relation to the Thrifty Australia business).
Hertz Australia must notreceive* access or seek to access any information,
report, statement or record referred to in clause 5.4 of this Undertaking.
5.3
,
00
5.5
5
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission under
section 87B of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 by Dollar Thrifty Automotive
Group Inc. Hertz Australia Pty Ltd (ACN 004 407 087) and Hertz Global Holdings, Inc
ME 113,94999_11W2007}


Ring-fencing ofDTAG reservation systems
Subject to clause 5.8, Hertz Global and DTAG must implement all
5.6
necessary measures to prevent Hertz Australia or any Australian Hertz
Business from receiving or accessing infonnation relating to Thrifty
Australia rates and other infonnation relating to Thrifty Australia
operations through the global reservation system operated by DTAG or
any other reservationsystem operated by the Master Licensee.
Subjectto clause 5.8, Hertz Australia must not receive, access or attempt
to access any infonnation referred to in clause 5.6 through the DTAG
global reservation system or any other reservation system operated by the
Master Licensee,
5.7
5.8
Clauses 5.6 and 5.7 do not prevent Hertz Australia from accessing or
using infonnation which has been obtained or ascertained solely from
public sources or materials, including from any part of a reservation
system that is publicly accessible.
6.
Transfers of assets and shares
6. I
Required notifications
DTAG must provide the ACCC with at least 10 Business Days' notice
prior to the occurrence or anticipated occurrence of any circumstance or
event (including, without limitation, any proposed Subsequent
Transaction), or any proposed tennination or expiration of the Licence
Agreement, that would or may result in any assets of or shares in the
Master Licensee, including without limitation any assets used by the
Master Licensee to operate Thrifty Australia, being transferred to DTAG
or the Licensor or a Related Body Corporate of either of them, including
without limitation PUTSuant to Articles 502 and 603 of the License
Agreement.
Consents, waiters and notices
6.2
DTAG must provide the ACCC as soon asis reasonably practicable with
notice, in writing, of a consent* waiver or notice given by the Licensor
under the License Agreement in accordance with Article 605. D of the
License Agreement where that consent, waiver or notice:
(a) would adversely impactthe intended effect of the amendments
made by the License Agreement on 2'' June 2014 as set out in
Schedule 2 to tins Undertaking; or
6
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission under
section 87B of the Competition and Consumer Act 2070 by Dollar Thrifty Automotive
Group Inc. Hertz Australia Pty Ltd (ACN 004 407 087) and Hertz Global Holdings, Inc
ME, 113794999,11W2007}


(b) is otherwise inconsistent, or may reasonably be considered to be
inconsistent, with the objective of this Undertaking (as set out in
clauses 2.12 to 2.14 above) and/or with DTAG's, Hertz Global's or
Hertz Australia's obligations under this Undertaking.
Amendments to the LicenseAgreement
7.
7. I
The Licensor, DTAG or any Related Body Corporate ofDTAG must not,
withoutthepriorwritten consent of the ACCC:
(a)
amend those clauses of the License Agreement which were
amended on 2" June 2014 as set out in Schedule 2 to this
Undertaking, or make any other amendment to the License
Agreement, in either case in a way which would adversely impact
the intended effect of the amendmentsto those clauses; or
(b) otherwise annend the License Agreement where that anlendinentis
or may reasonably be considered to be inconsistent with the
objective of this Undertaking (as set out in clauses 2.12 to 2.14
above) and/'or with DTAG's, Hertz Global's or Hertz Australia's
obligations under this Undertaking.
Information
8.
8.1
The ACCC may direct Hertz Global, DTAG andr'or Hertz Australia, in
respect of their compliance with this Undertaking*to:
flints}Lintonnation to the ACCC in the time and in the fonn
(a)
requested by the ACCC;
(b) produce documents andmaterialsto the ACCC within the custody,
power or control of Hertz Global, DTAG or Hertz Australia (as
applicable) in the time and in the fonn requested by the ACCC;
and/or
(c) attend the ACCC at a time and place appointed by the ACCC to
answer any questions the ACCC (its Coriumissioners, its stafforits
agents) may have.
Hertz Global, DTAG and Hertz Australia (as applicable) must comply
with an ACCC direction under clause 8.1.
Any direction made by the ACCC under clause 8.1 will be notified to
Hertz Global, DTAG or Hertz Australia (as applicable) in accordance with
the requirements of clause 13.
.
,
*
8.2
8.3
7
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission under
section 87B of the Competition and Consumer Act 2070 by Dollar Thrifty Automotive
Group Inc. Hertz Australia Pty Ltd (ACN 004 407 087) and Hertz Global Holdings, Inc
ME 113794999 I(W2007)


T
.
8.4
Information furnished, documents and material produced or infonnation
given in response to any request or direction from the ACCC under this
clause 8 may be used by the ACCC for any purpose consistent with the
exercise of its statutory duties.
Nothing in this clause 8 requires the provision of infonnation or
documentsin respect of which Hertz Global, DTAG or Hertz Australia (as
applicable) has a claim of legal professional or other privilege,
Disclosure of the 11ndertaking
8.5
9.
9. I
DTAG, Hertz Global, Hertz Australia and the ACCC agree that Schedule
2 to this Undertaking IAImexure containing amendments to Licence
Agreement and other confidential tennsl will remain confidential.
DTAG, Hertz Global and Hertz Australia acknowledge that the ACCC
may:
(a) make this Undertaking (other than Schedule 2) publicly available;
9.2
and
(by publish his Undertaking (other than Schedule 2) on its public
section 87B undertakings register; and
(c) from time to time publicly refer to this Undertaking (other than
Schedule 2).
Noting in this clause 9 prevents the ACCC from disclosing such
infonnation as:
(a) is required by law;
^) is pennittedbys155AAAoftheAct;
(c) is necessary for the purpose of enforcement action under section
87B of the Act; or
(d) is necessary forthe purpose of making such marketinquiries as the
ACCC considers necessary to assess the impact on competition
arising in connection with the Undertaking.
Nounng in clause 9 prevents the ACCC from using the information
contained in the Undertaking for any purpose consistent with its statutory
functions and powers.
9.3
9.4
8
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission under
section 87B of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 by Dollar Thrifty Automotive
Group Inc. Hertz Australia Pty Ltd (ACN 004 407 087) and Hertz Global Holdings, Inc
ME_113794999_I(W2007)


10.
Where the perfonnance of an obligation under the Undertaking requires a Related
Body Corporate ofDTAG, Hertz Global or Hertz Australia to take orrefrain from
taking some action, Hertz Global, DTAG or Hertz Australia (as applicable) will
procure that Related Body Corporate to take or refrain from taking that action, as
the case may be.
11. NODerogation
Obligation to procure
11.1
The Undertaking does not prevent the ACCC from taking enforcement
action at any time, whether during or after the period of the Undertaking,
mrespect of any breachby Hertz Global, DTAG orHertz Australia of any
terniof the Undertaking.
Nothing in the Undertaking ismtended to restrictthe right of the ACCC to
take action under the Act for penalties or other remedies in the eventthat
Hertz Global, DTAG or Hertz Australia does not fully comply with,
implement and/'or perform its obligations under the Undertaking, orin any
other event where the ACCC decides to take action under the Act for
penalties or other remedies.
Costs
11.2
12.
Each of Hertz Global, DTAG and Hertz Australia will pay all of its own costs
incurred in relation to the Undertaking.
13. Notices
,
,~
Giving Notices
13.1 Ally notice or communication to the ACCC putsuantto the Undertaking
must be sentto:
Emailaddress: mer ers
Attention: Executive General Manager
Mergers andAdjudicationGroup
With an emailcopy sentto:
9
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission under
section 87B of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 by Dollar Thrifty Automotive
Group Inc. HertzAustralia Pty Ltd (ACN 004 407 087) and Hertz Global Holdings, Inc
ME_113794999 ItW2007)
accc. ov. au
met ersucu
Director, Undertaking Compliance Unit
Coordination and Strategy Branch
accc, ov, au


.
13.2
Mergers and Adjudication Group
Ally notice or coriumunication to Hertz Global PUTSuant to his
Undertaking must be sentto:
retiley Zillrrnennan
Name:
SRVP General Counsel& Secretary
The Hertz Corporation
225 Brae Boulevard
13.3
Address:
Ally notice or communication to DTAG PUTSuantto this Undertaking must
be sentto:
13.4
Park Ridge, NJ, 07656
U. S. A
Name:
Address:
Ally notice or communication to Hertz Australia PUTSuant to this
Undertaking must be sentto:
Hertz Australia Pty Ltd
Name:
10 Dorcas Street
Address:
South MeIboume, Victoria, 3186
Australia
Dollar Thrifty Automotive Group Inc
5330 East 31st Street
PO Box 35985
Tulsa, OK, 74153 - 0985
U. S. A
13.5 A notice sent by post is taken to be received three days after posting (or
seven days after posting itsGritto or from a place outside Australia).
13.6 A notice sent by emailis taken to be received at the time shown in the
email as the time the emailwas sent.
Change of contact details
13.7 Hertz Global, DTAG, Hertz Australia and the ACCC must give the other
parties notice of a change to its contact details for notices within three
Business Days.
13.8 A notice or communication is only taken to be received under this clause
13 (subject to clauses 13.4 and 13.5) if it is delivered, posted or fared to
the most recently advised address or number of the relevant party.
10
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission under
section 87B of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 by Dollar Thrifty Automotive
Group Inc. Hertz Australia Pty Ltd (ACN 004 407 087) and Hertz Global Holdings, Inc
ME, 113794999, I(W2007)


14.
Definitions in the Dictionary
14.1 A term or expression starting with a capital letter:
(a) which is defined in the Dictionary in clause I of Schedule Ito the
Undertaking (Dictionary), has the meaning given to it in the
Dictionary; or
(b) which is defined in the Corporations Act, butts not defined in the
Dictionary, has the mealfuig given to it in the Corporations Act,
unless the context requires otherwise,
Terms used in the License Agreement
14.2 A terni or expression which is defined in the License Agreement, and not
otherwise defined in the Dictionary, has the meaning given to it in the
License Agr. Gement, unlessthe contextrequires otherwise.
Interpretation
14.3 Clause 2 of Schedule I to the Undertaking sets out rules of interpretation
forthe Undertaking.
Defined terms and interpretation
,
,.
11
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission under
section 87B of the Competition and Consumer Act 2070 by Dollar Thrifty Automotive
Group Inc. Hertz Australia Pty Ltd (ACN 004 407 087) and Hertz Global Holdings, !nc
ME_113794999_I(W2007)


Executed as an Undertaking
Executed by DollarThriftyAutomotive Group, Inc
by:
Signature of director
Name of director(print)
Date
Executed by Hertz Australia Pty Ltd (ACN 004 407 087)
pursuantto section 127(I) of the CorporationsAct 2001 by
Signature of director
Signature of a director/company secretary
Name of director(print)
Name of director/company secretary (print)
', Ie A^"
Accepted by the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission
pursuantto section 87B of the Competition and Consumer Act20fOon:
Date
01.1RISRUSDEN
G/611.1'
Date
I\A
And signed on behalfofthe Commission:
I^
.^.,
Signature of a
company secretary
LAWRENCELIM
Chairman
,
Name of
12
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission under
section 87B of the Compeliimi and Consumer Act 2010 by Dollar Thrifty Automotive
Group Inc. Heriz AUStrelia Ply Ltd (ACN 004 407 087) and Hertz Global Holdings, Inc
ME 113,94999 1<W2007)
Date
ICOmpany secretary (pri
Date
^
7
Date
'4^-


Executed as an Undertaking
Executed by Dollar Thrifty Automotive Group, Inc
by
Ma, k p. F"';'
,
President & Chief Executive Officer
7 IQ I', I
Executed by Hertz Australia Ply Ltd (ACN 004 407 087)
PUTSuantto section 1270) of the CorporationsAct 2007 by:
Signature of director
Jeffrey Zimmerman
Name of director (print)
^, ,
ce Pre '
7
Accepted by the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission
pursuantto section 87B of the Competition and Consumer Act20fOon:
.
Date
& Secretary
And signed on behalf of the Commission:
(^. 0 .,,^.^
Signature of a director/company secretary
Chairman
Name of direclor/company secretary (print)
~
,
ME 113794999 11W2007j
12
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission under
section 87B of the Competition and Consumer Act 20iO by Dollar Thrifty Automotive
Group Inc. Hertz Australia Pty Ltd (ACN 004 407 087) and Hertz Global Holdings, Inc
a, ,,


Executed by Hertz Global Holdings, Inc
by:
Mark p. "';"
,
Chief Executive Officer
T ,O I
Jeffrey Zimmerman
11, ,"
,
Secretary
cu
.
Date
President, General Counsel &
I
13
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission under
section 87B of the Competition and Consumer Act 2070 by Dollar Thrifty Automotive
Group Inc. Hertz Australia Ply Ltd (ACN 004 407 087) and Hertz Global Holdings, Inc
1.1E 113794999 I IW2007)


Executed by Hertz Global Holdings, Inc
by
Signature of director
Name of director(print)
Date
Signature of a director/company secretary
Name of director/company secretary (print)
.
Date
I
I
13
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission under
section 87B of the Competition and Consumer Act 2070 by Dollar Thrifty Automotive
Group Inc. Hertz Australia Pty Ltd (ACN 004 407 087) and Hertz Global Holdings, !nc
ME 113,94999 11W2007)


.
Schedule I
I.
ACCC meansthe Australian Competition and Consumer Coininission.
Act meansthe Competition andC0?28/4merrtct2010 (Cth).
Australian Hertz Business means any business forthe provision of car rental
services carried on in Australia by Hertz Australia or any of its Related Bodies
Corporate.
Acquisition has the meaning given to that tenn in clause 2.1.
Business Day means a day other than a Saturday or Sunday on which banks are
open for business generally in the Australian Capital Territory.
Corporations Actmeans the CoworationsAci2001(Cth),
DTAG means Dollar Thrifty Automotive Group Inc, a company incorporated in,
Delaware, United States.
HertzAustralia means Hertz AustraliaPty Ltd (ACN 004 407 087).
Hertz Global means Hertz Global Holdings inc, a company incorporated in
Delaware, United States.
Hertz Group has the meaning given intrie License Agreement, as amended by an
Amendment Deed dated 2"'June 2014.
Kingmill means Kinginill Pty Ltd, trading as Thrifty Car Rental(ACN 003 966
649).
License Agreement meansthe international Master License Agreement between
Kinginill as 'Master Licensee' and DTAG as 'Licensor' including its schedules,
exhibits and 'Operating Manuals', and as amended by a letter agreement dated 19
June 2009 and an AIDendrnentDeed dated2"'June 2014.
Licensormeansthe 'Licensor' under the License Agreement,
Master Licensee means the 'Master Licensee' referred to in the License
Agreement.
Related Bodies Corporate basthe meaning given by section 4A of the Act.
Schedule means a schedule to this Undertaking.
Subsequent Transaction means any transaction under which DTAG, the
Licensor or any of their Related Bodies Corporate acquires an interest, whether
Dictionary
LIE 113794999 I(W2007)
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission under
section 87B of the Competition and Consumer Act 2070 by Dollar Thrifty Automotive
Group Inc. Hertz Australia Pty Ltd (ACN 004 407 087) and Hertz Global Holdings, Inc


directly or through any one or more interposed entities, in 35 per cent or more of
the shares in, or 35 per cent or more of the assets comprising the business of, the
Master Licensee.
Thrifty Australia has the meaning given to that tenn in clause 2.3 of this
Undertaking.
Undertaking is a reference to all provisions of itlis document, including its
Schedules and as varied from time to time under section 87B of the Act.
2.
In the interpretation of this Undertaking, the followino provisions apply unless the
context otherwise requires:
(a) a reference to this Undertaking includes all of the provisions of this
document including its Schedules;
(b) headings are inserted for convenience only and do not affect the
interpretation of this Undertaking;
(c) ifthe day on which any act, matter or thing is to be done under the
Undertaking is not a Business Day, the act, matter or thing must be done
on the nextBusiness Day;
(d) a reference in this Undertaking to any law, legislation or legislative
provision includes any statutory modification, amendment or re-
enactment, and any subordinate legislation orregulations issued under that
legislation or legislative provision;
(e) a reference in this Undertaking to any agreement or docunientis to that
agreement or document as amended, novated, supplemented orreplaced;
(f) a reference to a clause, part, schedule or attachment is a reference to a
clause, part, schedule or attachment of or to this Undertaking;
(g) an expression importing a natural person includes any company, trust,
partnership, joint venture, association, body corporate or goverrrrnental
agency;
01) where a word orphrase is given a defined meaning, another part of speech
or other grarinn. atical fonn in respect of that word or phrase has a
corresponding meaning;
(i) a word which denotes the singular also denotes the plural, a word which
denotes the plural also denotes the singular, and a reference to any gender
also denotes the other genders;
Interpretation
2
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission under
section 87B of the Competition and Consumer Act 2070 by Dollar Thrifty Automotive
Group Inc. Hertz Australia Pty Ltd (ACN 004 407 087) and Hertz Global Holdings, Inc
ME_113,94999_I(W2007}


(i)
a reference to the words 'such as', 'including', 'Particularly' and similar
expressionsisto be construed withoutlimitation;
a construction that would promote the purpose or object underlying the
Undertaking (whether expressly stated or not) will be preferred to a
constin. lotion that would not promote that purpose or object;
material not fonning part of the Undertaking may be considered to:
(i) confirmthemeaiiing of aclause is the ordinary meaning conveyed
by the text of the clause, taking into accountits context in the
Undertaking andthe competition concernsintendedto be
addressed by the Undertaking and the clause inquestion; or
(ii) deterrnine themeaiinig of the clausewhenthe ordinary meaning
conveyed by the text of the clause, taking into accountits context
in the Undertaking and the purpose or object underlying the
Undertaking, leadsto a resultthat does not promote the purpose or
object underlying the Undertaking;
in determining whether consideration should be given to any material in
accordance with paragraph (in), or in considering any weiglitto be given
to any such material, regard must be had, in addition to any other relevant
matters, to:
(i) the effectthatreliance on the ordinary meaning conveyed by the text
of the clause would have (taking into account its context in the
Undertaking and whether that meaning promotes the purpose or
object of the Undertaking); and
(ii) the need to ensure that the result of the Undertaking is to completely
address any ACCC competition concerns;
the ACCC may authorise the Mergers Review Conrrnittee, a member of
the ACCC or a member of the ACCC staff, to exercise a decision making
function under the Undertaking on its behalfandthat authorisation may be
subjectto any conditions whichthe ACCC may impose;
in perfonning their obligations under the Undertaking, DTAG and Hertz
Australia will do everything reasonably within their power to ensure that
their performance of those obligations is done in a manner which is
consistentwith promoting the purpose and object of the Undertaking;
a reference to:
(i) aimng (including, but notlimited to, a chose in action or other riglit)
includes a part of that thing;
(ii) aparty includes its successors and permitted assigns; and
(k)
(1)
(in)
,
(n)
(0)
(P)
3
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission under
section 87B of the Competition and Consumer Act 2070 by Dollar Thrifty Automotive
Group Inc. Hertz Australia Pty Ltd (ACN 004 407 087) and Hertz Global Holdings, Inc
ME_!13794999_I(W2007)


*
.
(lit) a monetary amountis in Australian dollars.
4
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission under
section 87B of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 by Dollar Thrifty Automotive
Group Inc. Hertz Australia Pty Ltd (ACN 004 407 087) and Hertz Global Holdings, Inc
ME 113794999 I(W2007)


Schedule 2
5
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission under
section 87B of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 by Dollar Thrifty Automotive
Group Inc. HertzAustralia Pty Ltd (ACN 004 407 087) and Hertz Global Holdings, Inc
ME_113,94999_ICW2007)
