Our ref:  
IM-72964  
 
 
31 July 2025 
Dear Interested Party 
Request for submissions: Yamaha’s proposed acquisition of Telwater 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your 
views on the proposed acquisition of Telwater Pty Ltd (Telwater) and the property at 
45-65 Waterway Drive, Coomera, Queensland by Yamaha Motor Australia Pty Ltd 
(Yamaha) (the Proposed Acquisition). 
Yamaha Motor Company Ltd (YMC) manufactures outboard motors in Asia (primarily in 
Japan) and Yamaha imports and supplies them to its authorised dealer network (retailers) 
in Australia. Telwater manufactures aluminium trailer boats and trailers in Australia and 
supplies them to dealers. Telwater also supplies a limited number of outboard motors to 
dealers as part of a package, with a Telwater boat and also potentially a trailer. Trailer 
boats are generally used for leisure activities, such as fishing and cruising. Recreational 
trailer boats typically use an outboard motor. Further details are provided at Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact on competition. In particular, we are 
seeking your views on: 
• 
the potential for the merged entity to link the sales of trailer boats with sales of 
outboard motors, and vice versa 
• 
the availability of alternative manufacturers of aluminium trailer boats 
• 
the availability of alternative suppliers of outboard motors 
• 
the likelihood of new entry or expansion in the supply of trailer boats and/or 
outboard motors, and   
• 
the likely impact of the Proposed Acquisition on prices, range, quality and/or service 
levels in the supply of trailer boats and outboard motors.  
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are 


likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
Please provide your response by 4pm on 14 August 2025 via email to 
mergers@accc.gov.au, with the title: Submission re: Yamaha / Telwater. If you require more 
time to respond, please let us know. 
If you would like to arrange a time to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any 
questions about this letter, please contact mergers@accc.gov.au.  
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public Mergers 
Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC treats sensitive information it receives during a merger review as confidential, 
and will not publish your submission. We will not disclose submissions to third parties 
(except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of 
information legislation or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the 
Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, we will notify you in advance where possible so that you have an opportunity 
to be heard. Therefore please clearly indicate if any information you provide is confidential. 
Our Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on 
confidentiality. 
 
Yours sincerely 
 
Morag Bond 
General Manager 
Merger Assessments  
 
 
 
 
 


Attachment A 
 
Proposed Acquisition 
 
On 1 April 2025, Yamaha entered into agreements with Bombardier Recreation Products Inc 
(BRP) and BRP Australia Pty Ltd (BRP Australia) to acquire 100% of the shares in Telwater 
and a property at 45-65 Waterway Drive, Coomera, Queensland, that is currently used to 
manufacture, fit and warehouse aluminium trailer boats. 
 
Yamaha   
 
YMC manufactures outboard motors in Asia (primarily in Japan) and Yamaha imports them 
into Australia. It supplies the outboard motors directly to its dealers in Australia, who then re-
supply them to end-customers. Yamaha currently supplies outboard motors to approximately 
104 dealers in Australia. 
 
Yamaha does not manufacture trailer boats in Australia. YMC subsidiaries manufacture 
trailer boats overseas for various international markets. Yamaha and a related business have 
supplied a small number of these trailer boats to dealers in Australia, primarily via a third 
party Australian distributor. Yamaha also owns the trademarks for a small number of 
aluminium trailer boat and trailer brands, which were previously licensed to a third party 
manufacturer and are not currently in use. Yamaha does not supply trailers for boats in 
Australia.    
 
Telwater 
 
Telwater is a manufacturer and wholesale supplier of aluminium trailer boats and trailers in 
Australia. Telwater currently supplies aluminium trailer boats under the Stacer, Quintrex and 
Yellowfin Plate brands. Telwater supplies both custom-fitted trailers that are sold together 
with Telwater boats (under the same brand as the boat) and loose trailers (under the brand 
name "Move") that can be used for any trailer boat. Telwater supplies its trailer boats and 
trailers to dealers, who then re-supply them to end customers. 
 
Telwater also supplies a limited number of outboard motors to dealers as part of a 
package with a Telwater boat and trailer. Telwater is a non-exclusive distributor of Mercury 
outboard motors, with Mercury also supplying its outboard motors to dealers itself and via 
other wholesalers. Telwater also supplies a very small number of Rotax outboard motors 
(which are manufactured and distributed by BRP), as part of a package with certain of its 
boats. BRP is not included in the Proposed Acquisition and may continue to manufacture and 
distribute its Rotax motors in Australia post-acquisition. 
 
BRP Australia is currently a wholesale supplier of pontoon boats named “Sea-Doo Switch” 
(which is supplied with a trailer) and personal watercrafts under the Sea-Doo brand (which 
can be supplied with a trailer). These product offerings are not part of the Proposed 
Acquisition. 
 
BRP and BRP Australia do not otherwise supply boats, boat trailers or outboard motors in 
Australia. 
 
 
 


Area of overlap 
 
Yamaha and Telwater both supply outboard motors to dealers (retailers) in Australia. While 
outboard motors are used on a variety of boats, including trailer boats, Telwater only supplies 
outboard motors as part of a package with one of its trailer boats. 
 
Telwater manufactures and supplies aluminium trailer boats to dealers in Australia. Yamaha 
does not overlap with Telwater in the supply of trailer boats to dealers.      
 


Attachment B – List of Questions  
1. To better understand your views, describe your business or organisation and explain 
your interest in the Proposed Acquisition, including any commercial relationship/s with 
Yamaha and/or Telwater.  
Questions for trailer boat and outboard motor dealers  
2. Describe the range of trailer boats and/or outboard motors that you retail and 
explain the importance of that range when competing against other trailer boat 
and/or outboard motor dealers.  
3. Describe how trailer boat suppliers and/or outboard motor suppliers compete to 
supply you (as a dealer) with boats and/or outboard motors. In your response, 
please: 
a. identify the trailer boat and/or outboard motor suppliers which compete 
for your business  
b. explain the factors you consider when selecting a brand of trailer boats 
and/or outboard motors to stock, including when deciding whether or not 
to retail more than one brand of trailer boat or outboard motor 
c. identify whether you have switched brands of trailer boats and/or 
outboard motors in the past, and if so, explain the factors which caused 
you to switch brands 
d. identify whether you have switched, or considered switching, between 
retailing aluminium and fibreglass trailer boats, and explain the factors 
that you considered.    
4. Outline the contractual arrangement/s your dealership/s have with trailer boat 
and/or outboard motor suppliers, including whether it is a franchise or other 
relationship and whether there are exclusivity obligations.  
5. To what extent do you currently purchase a bundled package that includes a 
trailer boat and outboard motor (and may also include a trailer) from your 
supplier? Discuss why or why not.  
6. If the Proposed Acquisition proceeds and the merged firm was to offer a bundled 
Telwater trailer boat /Yamaha outboard engine product (either offering discounts 
if the products are purchased as a package or only offering to supply a Telwater 
boat with a Yamaha engine), what would you do? In your response, you may wish 
to consider whether:  
a. Telwater trailer boats and/or Yamaha outboard engines are ‘must-have’ 
products in your range 
b. you would be able to obtain competitive bundles of trailer boats and 
outboard motors from other suppliers.    
7. Would you consider purchasing a bundled Yamaha outboard engine /Telwater 
trailer boat product if offered in future? Discuss why or why not. 
 


Questions for trailer boat and/or outboard motor manufacturers/suppliers  
8. Who are your main competitors in the manufacture and supply of trailer boats 
and/or outboard motors? 
9. Describe the distribution channels for your products in Australia. In your 
response, please describe:  
a. how many dealers you currently have in Australia, broken down by state or 
territory 
b. the nature of your dealership network, including whether it comprises 
independent and/or franchise dealers  
c. whether, and to what extent, you retail directly to consumers.  
10. Describe the range of trailer boats and/or outboard motors (as applicable) that 
you manufacture or supply and the importance of that range when competing 
against rivals.  
11. To what extent do you supply a bundled package that includes at least a trailer 
boat and outboard motor (and may also include a trailer) to dealers or directly to 
consumers? Discuss why or why not.  
12. If the Proposed Acquisition proceeds and the merged firm was to offer a bundled 
Yamaha outboard engine /Telwater trailer boat product, how would this offering 
impact your ability to compete with the merged firm?  
13. Outline the main factors that must be overcome to commence supplying, or to 
expand supply of trailer boats or outboard motors (as applicable). In your 
response, you may wish to consider:  
a. the time and costs involved with entry or expansion, including the 
importance of growing or having access to an extensive distributor 
network 
b. the scale necessary to supply trailer boats or outboard motors (as 
applicable) at competitive prices, including for manufacturing or 
distribution facilities, or any network effects  
c. any other barriers.  
Provide recent examples of new entry or expansion where possible. 
Other information and competition issues 
14. Provide any additional information or comments that you consider relevant to the 
ACCC’s consideration of the Proposed Acquisition.  
