Yamaha Motor Australia Pty Ltd – Proposed Acquisition of Telwater 
Page 1 of 19 
 
 
 
 
Statement of Issues 
9 October 2025 
 Yamaha Motor Australia Pty Ltd’s proposed 
acquisition of Telwater Pty Ltd   
Purpose 
 
1. 
Yamaha Motor Australia Pty Ltd (Yamaha) has entered into an agreement with 
Bombardier Recreation Products Incorporated (BRP) and BRP Australia Pty Ltd 
(BRP Australia) to acquire 100% of the shares in Telwater Pty Ltd (Telwater), and a 
property in Coomera, Queensland, that is currently used to manufacture, fit and 
warehouse aluminium trailer boats (together, the Proposed Acquisition). 
2. 
This Statement of Issues: 
a. 
gives the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission’s (ACCC) 
preliminary views on competition issues arising from the Proposed 
Acquisition 
b. 
identifies areas of further inquiry, and 
c. 
invites interested parties to submit comments and information to assist 
our assessment of the issues. 
3. 
Statements of Issues do not refer to confidential information provided by the 
parties or other market participants and therefore may not fully articulate the 
ACCC’s preliminary position. 
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views 
 
4. 
In considering the Proposed Acquisition, the ACCC applies the legal test set out in 
section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the CCA). In general terms, 
section 50 prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to have the 
effect, of substantially lessening competition in any market. 


Yamaha Motor Australia Pty Ltd – Proposed Acquisition of Telwater 
Page 2 of 19 
 
5. 
The ACCC divides its preliminary views into three categories, 'issues of concern', 
'issues that may raise concerns' and ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’. In this 
Statement of Issues there is one ‘issue of concern’, one ‘issue that may raise 
concerns’ and one ‘issue unlikely to raise concerns’.  
Issue of concern – foreclosure of competition in the wholesale supply of outboard 
motors  
 
6. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the Proposed Acquisition is likely to have the 
effect of substantially lessening competition in the wholesale supply of outboard 
motors in Australia.  
7. 
Telwater is regarded as the leading aluminium trailer boat brand in Australia. A 
Telwater aluminium trailer boat is considered by many dealers to be a very 
important product, with high brand recognition, limited alternative wholesale 
suppliers of aluminium trailer boats available and moderate to high barriers to 
entry and expansion.1 The brand of outboard motor is typically considered an 
important but secondary consideration for aluminium trailer boat dealers.  
8. 
As a result of the Proposed Acquisition, the merged entity would have the ability 
and incentive to leverage from its position in the wholesale supply of aluminium 
trailer boats to link the wholesale supply of Yamaha outboard motors to Telwater 
aluminium trailer boats, either requiring or strongly incentivising Telwater dealers 
to not supply competing outboard motor brands, or to not supply Telwater 
aluminium trailer boats with rival outboard motors.  
9. 
Such strategies risk foreclosing current and future rival outboard motor suppliers’ 
access to dealers and reducing their scale, significantly impacting competition in 
the supply of such products. This reduction in competition may result in higher 
prices and reduced choice for consumers.   
Issue that may raise concerns – foreclosure of competition in the wholesale supply 
of aluminium trailer boats  
 
10. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the Proposed Acquisition may have the effect 
of substantially lessening competition in the wholesale supply of aluminium trailer 
boats in Australia. 
11. 
The ACCC is still considering whether the merged entity post-acquisition would 
have the ability and incentive to require or incentivise Yamaha dealers to not sell 
competing aluminium trailer boat brands or not sell Yamaha outboard motors with 
any new rival aluminium trailer boat. This concern is the mirror of the previous 
concern and involves the merged firm leveraging from its position in outboard 
motors (with the Yamaha brand) to substantially lessen competition in the supply 
of aluminium trailer boats.  
12. 
The ACCC is particularly concerned that a material loss in sales for rival aluminium 
trailer boat manufacturers may significantly impact their economies of scale, and 
in turn their competitiveness, because these boats are predominantly 
manufactured in Australia with most supplied to the domestic market, creating a 
 
1  Dealers retail boat products to consumers in Australia, including, but not limited to, boats (aluminium and/or fiberglass), boat 
trailers, outboard motors and boat parts and accessories. References to dealers in this Statement refer to boat dealers and 
these dealers typically also sell outboard motors.  


Yamaha Motor Australia Pty Ltd – Proposed Acquisition of Telwater 
Page 3 of 19 
 
greater risk that these businesses may be foreclosed and permanently exit the 
manufacture and supply of aluminium trailer boats. 
13. 
A significant proportion of outboard motor sales are for repowering a used boat 
with a new outboard motor. Any strategy to link the sale of Telwater aluminium 
trailer boats to Yamaha outboard motors would likely need to avoid requiring those 
end customers that wish to only repower an existing boat to buy a new Telwater 
aluminium trailer boat. The ACCC considers that the merged firm is likely able to 
adopt a strategy which does not affect these repower sales.  
Issue unlikely to raise concerns – reduced competition in wholesale supply of 
aluminium trailer boats due to the merged entity’s access to commercially sensitive 
information of rivals 
 
14. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that while the merged firm would likely have 
increased access to the commercially sensitive information of rival aluminium 
trailer boat suppliers (including through the supply of Yamaha floorplan financing 
to Yamaha/non-Telwater dealers), access to such information is unlikely to give 
rise to a substantial lessening of competition in the wholesale supply of aluminium 
trailer boats.  
Making a submission 
 
15. 
The ACCC invites submissions from interested parties on the following key issues: 
a. the likelihood that the merged entity would, post-acquisition, have the 
ability and incentive to link the wholesale supply of Yamaha outboard 
motors to Telwater aluminium trailer boats, foreclosing rival outboard 
motor suppliers and/or increasing barriers to entry or expansion. Please 
provide examples of how the linking of sales is likely to occur and the likely 
competitive effects of such behaviour  
b. the likelihood that the merged entity would, post-acquisition, have the 
ability and incentive to link the wholesale supply of Telwater aluminium 
trailer boats to Yamaha outboard motors in a manner that is likely to 
foreclose rival aluminium trailer boat suppliers and/or increase barriers to 
entry or expansion. Please provide examples of how the linking of sales is 
likely to occur and the likely competitive effects of such behaviour, and   
c. the likelihood the Proposed Acquisition would confer a competitive 
advantage on the merged entity as a result of increased access to the 
commercially sensitive information of rival aluminium trailer boat suppliers 
and the extent of any competitive impact.   
16. 
Interested parties should provide submissions by 5pm on 23 October 2025. 
17. 
Responses may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: Submission re: 
Yamaha/Telwater. If you would like to discuss the matter with ACCC staff or have 
any questions about this Statement of Issues, please email mergers@accc.gov.au. 
18. 
The ACCC anticipates making a final decision on 4 December 2025, however, this 
timeline can change. To keep up with possible timing changes and to find relevant 
documents, interested parties should visit the Mergers Register on the ACCC's 


Yamaha Motor Australia Pty Ltd – Proposed Acquisition of Telwater 
Page 4 of 19 
 
website at www.accc.gov.au/publicregisters/mergers-registers/public-informal-
merger-reviews. 
Confidentiality of submissions 
 
19. 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the Proposed Acquisition. The 
ACCC will not disclose submissions to third parties (except its advisors 
/consultants) unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information 
legislation or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the CCA. 
Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, the ACCC will 
notify you in advance where possible so that you may have an opportunity to be 
heard. Therefore, please identify any confidential information that is provided to the 
ACCC. Our Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on 
confidentiality. 
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’ 
 
20. 
A Statement of Issues is not a final decision about a proposed acquisition. A 
Statement of Issues outlines the ACCC’s preliminary views and identifies further 
lines of inquiry. 
21. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 
The parties 
 
Yamaha Motor Australia 
 
22. 
Yamaha Motor Company Ltd (YMC) manufactures outboard motors in Asia, 
primarily in Japan, and imports them into Australia through its wholly owned 
subsidiary, Yamaha. Yamaha supplies the outboard motors to dealers Australia 
wide. Dealers then supply the outboard motors to end customers. 
23. 
Yamaha currently supplies outboard motors to over 100 dealers in Australia.  
24. 
Yamaha does not manufacture boats in Australia. YMC subsidiaries manufacture 
trailer boats overseas for various international markets. Yamaha and a related 
business have supplied a small number of these trailer boats to dealers in 
Australia, primarily via a third-party Australian distributor. Yamaha also owns the 
trademarks for a small number of aluminium trailer boat and trailer brands, which 
were previously licensed to a third-party manufacturer and are not currently in use. 
Yamaha does not supply trailers for boats in Australia. 
Telwater 
 
25. 
Telwater manufactures aluminium trailer boats and trailers in Australia and 
supplies them to dealers, who then sell to end customers. Telwater has three lines 
of trailer boats: Quintrex, Stacer (both pressed aluminium brands) and Yellowfin 


Yamaha Motor Australia Pty Ltd – Proposed Acquisition of Telwater 
Page 5 of 19 
 
branded boats (a ‘plate’ aluminium brand). Pressed aluminium is a thinner, mass-
produced aluminium sheet typically used for smaller boats as well as medium to 
larger boats, while plate aluminium is thicker and more robust, designed for more 
extreme conditions, and typically used for medium to larger boats.  
26. 
Each of Telwater’s boat lines is slightly different, with Quintrex regarded as a more 
premium brand, Stacer marketed as a reliable, value-focused brand and the 
Yellowfin plate brand as suitable for speciality fishing for serious anglers. 
Information provided to the ACCC indicates that Telwater’s Quintrex and Stacer 
brands comprise the majority of its trailer boat sales in Australia.  
27. 
Telwater supplies custom-fitted trailers that are sold together with its boats 
(Telwater branded), or loose trailers (under the brand name ‘Move’) that can be 
used for any trailer boat.  
28. 
Telwater boats are either sold to dealers as a) a boat only, b) a boat and trailer 
package, or c) a boat, trailer and outboard motor package. 
Industry background 
Aluminium trailer boats 
 
29. 
Trailer boats are small marine vessels that can be fitted to a trailer for easy 
transportation and generally range between 2 – 9 metres in length. Trailer boats 
can be made from various materials, with the most common being aluminium, 
fibreglass or plastic. 
30. 
Aluminium trailer boats are primarily used for recreational boating in Australia. 
Market participants contend that there are separate markets for aluminium trailer 
boats and fibreglass trailer boats as they each have distinct characteristics. 
Aluminium trailer boats are generally lighter, more durable and generally less 
expensive than fibreglass trailer boats. As such, aluminium trailer boats appeal to a 
different customer compared with boats made from alternative materials.  
31. 
Most of the aluminium trailer boats sold in Australia are manufactured in Australia.  
32. 
Other manufacturers of aluminium trailer boats in Australia include Sea Jay, 
Horizon and Stessl, Bar Crusher, and Bluefin.  
Outboard motors 
 
33. 
Trailer boats generally use an outboard motor, irrespective of whether the boat is 
manufactured from aluminium, fibreglass or plastic. Outboard motors are 
standalone systems that are installed to the outside hull of the boat, as opposed to 
inboard motors which are installed inside the boat’s hull and used for larger boats 
(e.g. yachts and ships). Outboard motors are generally manufactured overseas and 
imported into Australia.    
34. 
Outboard motors are attached to new trailer boats for sale and/or when repowering 
older trailer boats (e.g. when the existing engine needs replacing). Rigging must 
also be attached to the trailer boat for the outboard motor to function. Rigging 
generally differs between outboard motor brands, and consists of cables, wires, 
gauges, filters, a propellor and, sometimes, a digital control system. 


Yamaha Motor Australia Pty Ltd – Proposed Acquisition of Telwater 
Page 6 of 19 
 
35. 
The useful life of a motor can be substantially shorter than a trailer boat, such that 
a significant proportion of outboard motors sold in Australia are for repowering a 
used boat.2  
36. 
Other main suppliers of outboard motors in Australia include Mercury, Suzuki, 
Honda, and Tohatsu. 
Distribution of aluminium trailer boats and outboard motors to end customers 
 
37. 
Generally, manufacturers of aluminium trailer boats and outboard motors sell their 
products to dealers who then sell to end customers. The vast majority of new 
aluminium trailer boats are sold to end customers with an outboard motor 
attached and most aluminium trailer boat dealers are also dealers of outboard 
motors. Similarly, a large proportion of outboard motor dealers are also aluminium 
trailer boat dealers; although the ACCC understands that some outboard motor 
dealers only retail outboard motors and focus on repowering used boats.  
38. 
Dealers tend to be exclusive suppliers for one brand of trailer boat and one brand 
of outboard motor. This often reflects the rebates and other incentives offered to 
dealers by wholesale suppliers of aluminium trailer boats and outboard motors 
which disincentivise dealers from stocking competing brands.  
39. 
While the ACCC is still considering the number of aluminium trailer boat dealers in 
Australia and the brands each supplies, our preliminary view is that Telwater has a 
particularly extensive dealership network in Australia, significantly larger than the 
network of rival aluminium trailer boat brands.  
40. 
At least half of Telwater dealers are also Yamaha outboard motor dealers, while 
the remaining Telwater dealers retail non-Yamaha motors. A very small proportion 
of Telwater dealers retail more than one outboard motor brand.   
41. 
Yamaha also has an extensive dealer network for the wholesale supply of its 
outboard motors. Mercury, a rival outboard motor supplier also has a large dealer 
network. However, the remaining rival outboard motor suppliers have significantly 
smaller distribution networks than Yamaha and Mercury.  
42. 
The ACCC understands that there are three different options for a dealer to have an 
outboard motor fitted to an aluminium trailer boat: 
a. Factory-packaged trailer boat (rigging and motor attached at the factory) – 
the boat manufacturer purchases the rigging and outboard motor and 
attaches both to the boat before supplying the combined product as a 
‘packaged boat’ to a dealer, or in some cases, to an end customer. This is 
commonly referred to as a ‘BMT’ (i.e. a boat, outboard motor and trailer) 
package.   
b. Factory pre-rigged (rigging only attached at the factory) – the boat 
manufacturer purchases the rigging for a specific type of outboard motor 
brand and attaches the rigging to the boat before supplying it to a dealer. 
The dealer then separately purchases and attaches the outboard motor.  
 
2  Based on information provided to the ACCC, we understand that aluminium trailer boats are likely to have an economic life of 
20 to 40 years, whereas motors last between 5 and 15 years. 


Yamaha Motor Australia Pty Ltd – Proposed Acquisition of Telwater 
Page 7 of 19 
 
c. Post-manufacturing stage (rigging and motor attached at the boat 
dealership) – the dealer purchases the rigging and outboard motor 
separately to the trailer boat with the dealer attaching both to the boat as 
part of the preparation of a new boat for sale.  
43. 
The ACCC understands that some aluminium trailer boat dealers prefer purchasing 
a boat that is pre-rigged for the relevant motor brand (item b in paragraph 42 
above), or less frequently, a BMT (item a in paragraph 42 above). These options 
allow dealers to save time and costs and also mean a dealer does not need to hire 
staff to rig and/or attach outboard motors to boats. 
44. 
However, the ACCC understands that a significant proportion of Telwater 
aluminium trailer boats are supplied to dealers without pre-rigging or a motor (item 
c in paragraph 42 above).  
45. 
Telwater currently offers its dealers the option of factory pre-rigging for Yamaha 
motors, and BMTs fitted with Mercury or Rotax motors, subject to dealership 
arrangements being in place with those outboard motor suppliers. 3 We understand 
that currently only a relatively small proportion of Telwater boats are pre-rigged for 
a Yamaha motor or sold to dealers as a factory BMT package (attaching a Mercury 
or Rotax motor).   
The Proposed Acquisition 
 
46. 
On 1 April 2025, YMC announced that Yamaha had signed agreements with BRP 
and BRP Australia to acquire 100% of the shares in Telwater and a property in 
Coomera, Queensland, that is currently used to manufacture, fit and warehouse 
aluminium trailer boats. 
Future with and without the acquisition 
 
47. 
In assessing a proposed acquisition under section 50 of the CCA, the ACCC 
considers the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future state of 
competition if the acquisition proceeds (the ’with’ position) to the likely future state 
of competition if the acquisition does not proceed (the ‘without’ position) to 
determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to substantially lessen 
competition in any relevant market. 
48. 
Consistent with the ACCC’s approach set out in its Merger Assessment 
Guidelines,4 the ACCC is considering a likely future state of competition ‘without’ 
the Proposed Acquisition (the counterfactual) that would be similar to the state of 
competition prevailing at the time of the Proposed Acquisition, that is, the status 
quo. In this transaction, the status quo is one in which Telwater continues to 
operate as it does currently.  
 
 
 
3  Mercury Marine has had an engine supply agreement with Telwater since May 2020. Telwater has been supplying boats to 
dealers that are pre-rigged for Yamaha motors since June 2023. BRP manufactures Rotax outboard motors. The ACCC 
understands that Rotax is not a leading outboard motor brand sold in Australia. 
4  See ACCC, Merger Assessment Guidelines, June 2025.  


Yamaha Motor Australia Pty Ltd – Proposed Acquisition of Telwater 
Page 8 of 19 
 
Areas of competition and potentially relevant markets 
 
49. 
There is no significant overlap between Yamaha and Telwater in the manufacture 
and wholesale supply of aluminium trailer boats or outboard motors.  
50. 
While Yamaha and Telwater both supply outboard motors to dealers in Australia, 
Telwater only supplies outboard motors as part of a package with its trailer boats.  
51. 
However, Yamaha and Telwater’s products are clear complements with dealers 
and end customers often purchasing both aluminium trailer boats and outboard 
motors.   
52. 
It is therefore necessary for the ACCC to consider whether the acquisition would 
enable Yamaha to bundle, tie or otherwise link products in a way that may affect 
competition in the wholesale supply of outboard motors in Australia and/or the 
wholesale supply of aluminium trailer boats in Australia. 
Wholesale supply of outboard motors in Australia 
 
53. 
The ACCC considers the wholesale supply of outboard motors in Australia to be a 
relevant area of competition because: 
a. at the product level, inboard motors are different in terms of quality and 
range and cannot be effectively substituted for outboard motors by either 
an aluminium trailer boat manufacturer or dealer. There is some 
differentiation between outboard motor suppliers in terms of the quality, 
range and branding of their motors, however these differences are not 
sufficiently material to constitute separate areas of competition 
b. at the geographic level, outboard motors are generally manufactured 
overseas, imported and supplied across Australia, and  
c. at the functional level, outboard motors are nearly always sold wholesale 
to trailer boat manufacturers or dealers and these products are not 
typically sold direct to end customers. 
Wholesale supply of aluminium trailer boats in Australia 
 
54. 
The ACCC considers the wholesale supply of aluminium trailer boats in Australia to 
be a relevant area of competition because: 
a. at the product level: 
i. 
market inquiries indicate that other boats such as fibreglass or 
plastic trailer boats have very different features and price points 
and that neither dealers nor end customers consider these 
substitutable for aluminium trailer boats. Additionally, Telwater’s 
rebate programs often permit the dealer to sell non-aluminium 
trailer boats without affecting their rebates, suggesting Telwater 
does not regard these products as close competitors  


Yamaha Motor Australia Pty Ltd – Proposed Acquisition of Telwater 
Page 9 of 19 
 
ii. 
from the supply side, manufacturers of aluminium trailer boats in 
Australia do not typically also manufacture non-aluminium trailer 
boats, and  
iii. 
while there is some differentiation in the supply of pressed and 
plate aluminium trailer boats in features and price points, these 
differences are not sufficiently material to constitute separate 
areas of competition 
b. at the geographic level, aluminium trailer boat suppliers typically supply 
across Australia. Imports of aluminium trailer boats into Australia are 
limited and primarily consist of higher value plate aluminium trailer boats 
from New Zealand because of Australian end customer requirements and 
the freight costs associated with importation, and   
c. at the functional level, manufacturers of aluminium trailer boats typically 
supply these boats to dealers, and not direct to end customers.  
Issue of concern – Foreclosure of competition in the wholesale 
supply of outboard motors in Australia  
 
55. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the Proposed Acquisition would be likely to 
have the effect of substantially lessening competition in the wholesale supply of 
outboard motors in Australia. 
56. 
The Proposed Acquisition would result in the largest wholesale supplier of 
aluminium trailer boats in Australia (Telwater), combining with a leading wholesale 
supplier of outboard motors in Australia (Yamaha). The ACCC is concerned that the 
merged entity would have the ability and incentive to link the wholesale supply of 
Yamaha outboard motors to the supply of Telwater aluminium trailer boats and 
that this would have the effect of reducing rival outboard motor suppliers’ ability to 
compete and/or increase barriers to entry and expansion.  
57. 
In considering this issue, the ACCC has used the ability, incentive and effect 
framework. 
Ability to foreclose competing outboard motor suppliers 
Telwater’s position in the wholesale supply of aluminium trailer boats 
 
58. 
The ACCC is considering the competitive alternatives to Telwater in the wholesale 
supply of aluminium trailer boats that are available to Telwater/non-Yamaha 
dealers. 
59. 
The ACCC understands that Telwater’s Quintrex, Stacer and Yellowfin brands are 
highly valued brands that are preferred by many dealers. Market feedback indicates 
that other pressed aluminium trailer boat brands are not strong constraints on 
Telwater’s Quintrex and Stacer brands. However, there may be some closer 
alternatives to Telwater’s Yellowfin plate boat brand which caters for higher-end 
customers. Notwithstanding that these closer alternatives may exist, it is not clear 
that the Yellowfin brand faces strong competition from rivals.   


Yamaha Motor Australia Pty Ltd – Proposed Acquisition of Telwater 
Page 10 of 19 
 
60. 
The main alternatives in the wholesale supply of aluminium trailer boats are Sea 
Jay, Horizon/Stessl and Bar Crusher. Sea Jay and Horizon/Stessl both 
manufacture and supply a range of plate and pressed aluminium trailer boats 
across Australia. However, Sea Jay predominately supplies its boats in 
Queensland. Bar Crusher only manufacturers and supplies plate aluminium trailer 
boats and mainly competes with Telwater’s Yellowfin plate boats.  
61. 
These three rival suppliers combined account for less than half of Telwater’s boat 
sales. Some dealers also consider that these suppliers would not have the 
production capacity to produce the volumes of boats those dealers require.  
62. 
Similarly, imported aluminium trailer boat brands, including from New Zealand and 
China, only account for a very small proportion of overall sales in Australia. Market 
feedback also indicated that imports from New Zealand are predominantly plate-
aluminium trailer boats. 
63. 
As such, there appear to be limited alternative aluminium trailer boat suppliers that 
Telwater/non-Yamaha dealers could switch to and therefore Telwater’s aluminium 
trailer boats are generally considered to be a very important product for these 
dealers.  
64. 
Post-acquisition, it is likely that Telwater would retain its leading market position in 
the wholesale supply of aluminium trailer boats due to moderate to high barriers to 
entry and expansion in the manufacture and/or supply of aluminium trailer boats in 
Australia. These barriers include sufficient manufacturing capacity (including 
gaining suitable staff), brand recognition, customer loyalty and access to already 
saturated dealer distribution networks. There are no known sources of entry or 
expansion in the wholesale supply of aluminium trailer boats that would likely 
achieve sufficient scale in a timely manner to constrain Telwater post-acquisition. 
Potential mechanisms to link Yamaha outboard motors to Telwater aluminium trailer boats  
 
65. 
The ACCC has not formed a concluded view on the mechanisms that the merged 
entity could use to link the wholesale supply of Yamaha outboard motors to 
Telwater aluminium trailer boats, and that would cause Telwater dealers that 
currently retail competing outboard motors to switch their purchases to Yamaha. 
However, by way of example, the merged entity could achieve this through: 
a. contractually requiring dealers that purchase Telwater boats to also become 
Yamaha outboard motor dealers, including potential conditions that the dealer 
does not sell competing outboard motor brands or does not sell Telwater 
boats with competing outboard motors 
b. offering significant targeted discounts, allowances, rebates or credits to 
Telwater dealers that currently retail competing outboard motor brands which 
incentivise the dealer to limit their sales of rival outboard motors, including 
potential conditions that the dealer does not sell competing outboard motor 
brands or does not sell Telwater aluminium trailer boats with a competing 
outboard motor, and/or   
c. modifying the technical design of Telwater aluminium trailer boats to prevent 
interoperability with competing outboard motor brands.  
 


Yamaha Motor Australia Pty Ltd – Proposed Acquisition of Telwater 
Page 11 of 19 
 
Dealer demand for linked offer 
 
66. 
For any linking strategy adopted by the merged entity to be successful, dealers 
need to be willing to purchase the two products. The ACCC considers that dealers 
will likely be willing to purchase the two products because, as set out above in 
paragraph 37, dealers of aluminium trailer boats will generally also be outboard 
motor dealers so that they can sell end customers an aluminium trailer boat with 
an outboard motor attached, reflecting the primary purchasing pattern of 
customers.  
67. 
As described at paragraph 42, there are three options for dealers to have an 
outboard motor fitted to an aluminium trailer boat.  
68. 
While there are differing dealer preferences for each of these options, the ACCC 
considers that the merged entity could adopt mechanisms to link the sale of 
Yamaha outboard motors to Telwater aluminium trailer boats which cater to the 
preferences of at least the majority of dealers. For example, if the merged entity 
implemented contractual requirements on Telwater dealers to also become 
Yamaha dealers, those dealers would be free to meet those requirements by 
purchasing a BMT, a factory pre-rigged trailer boat, or purchasing the products 
separately and attaching the rigging and outboard motor themselves.   
Potential for losses of sales and competitiveness by rivals  
 
69. 
The ACCC is also considering whether the linking of the sale of Telwater aluminium 
trailer boats and Yamaha outboard motors would result in a loss of sales of either 
current or future rival outboard motor suppliers. 
70. 
While some outboard motors are supplied to repower-only dealers,5 a significant 
proportion of rival outboard motor sales are to dealers that also stock Telwater 
aluminium trailer boats, and are therefore at risk of foreclosure. The ACCC is still 
considering the extent to which all rival outboard motor sales to Telwater dealers 
could be affected by the foreclosure strategy, or whether it is likely to be limited to 
just those motors that are attached to new Telwater aluminium trailer boats.6 
71. 
The ACCC is also considering the extent to which rival outboard motor suppliers 
may be able to prevent losses in sales by partnering with competing aluminium 
trailer boat manufacturers to offer either a sufficiently competitive alternative 
combined product to that offered by the merged entity or by establishing its own 
dealer distribution network of new aluminium trailer boats and outboard motors. 
However, other aluminium trailer boat suppliers appear to have significantly 
smaller sales volumes than Telwater. The presence of moderate to high barriers to 
entry and expansion also suggests that rival outboard motor suppliers could face 
significant challenges in seeking to establish a sufficiently competitive alternative 
product and dealer network to that offered by the merged entity.  
 
 
 
5  A repower-only dealer only sells outboard motors to end customers to be attached to existing boats and does not also supply 
aluminium trailer boats.  
6  Telwater dealers may also be dealers of other boats such as fibreglass or plastic boats, which also require outboard motors, 
or offer repower-only services. 


Yamaha Motor Australia Pty Ltd – Proposed Acquisition of Telwater 
Page 12 of 19 
 
Incentive to foreclose outboard motor suppliers  
 
72. 
The incentive of the merged entity depends on the relative potential gains and 
losses from the foreclosure of rivals, which would likely vary depending on the 
foreclosure mechanism enacted by the merged entity, including whether a partial 
or total foreclosure strategy is taken.  
73. 
Tying the supply of Yamaha outboard motors to Telwater aluminium trailer boats 
through contractual requirements or technical design (items a and c, respectively, 
in paragraph 65 above) involves a potential trade-off for the merged entity. The 
merged entity will gain profit from increased sales of outboard motors to Telwater 
dealers that switch their purchases to Yamaha from a rival outboard motor 
supplier. Against this, the merged entity will lose profit from forgone aluminium 
trailer boat sales to dealers that remain with their existing outboard motor supplier 
(and stop purchasing Telwater aluminium trailer boats) and incur costs to 
implement the contractual arrangements or technical design, including any rebate 
or discount necessary to compel sufficient dealers to take up either tied offering.  
74. 
If the merged firm were to adopt a linking mechanism involving significant targeted 
discounts or rebates to Telwater dealers that currently stock competing outboard 
motor brands (item b in paragraph 65 above), the merged entity is likely to face a 
trade-off between the cost of offering the rebates or discounts and the gain in 
profit it might earn from the increased sale of outboard motors. 
75. 
While the ACCC is still considering a number of matters relevant to the incentives 
of the merged entity, including the relative margins earned on the sale of Telwater 
aluminium trailer boats and Yamaha outboard motors, the ACCC’s preliminary view 
is that it would likely be profitable for the merged entity to link the wholesale supply 
of Yamaha outboard motors to Telwater aluminium trailer boats.   
76. 
As discussed above, market feedback received by the ACCC indicates that dealers 
of Telwater aluminium trailer boats which retail rival outboard motor brands 
generally consider Telwater boats to be a very important product. End customers’ 
purchasing decisions are primarily driven by the brand of aluminium trailer boat, 
with the outboard motor brand typically considered an important but secondary 
consideration for end customers and dealers. Given this, the ACCC’s preliminary 
view is that if the merged entity linked the sale of Yamaha outboard motors to 
Telwater aluminium trailer boats, it would likely generate greater revenue and 
margins from increased Yamaha outboard motor sales (i.e. from dealers switching 
purchases away from rival outboard motor brands to Yamaha) than it would forgo 
in: 
a. lost Telwater aluminium trailer boat sales if it pursued a contractual or 
technical design tying mechanism (i.e. lost sales associated with Telwater 
dealers that switch aluminium trailer boat brands and continue purchasing 
from their existing outboard motor brand), and/or   
b. discounts or rebates paid to dealers (including any costs associated with 
these strategies) if it pursued a discounts or rebates mechanism.   
77. 
The merged entity may also benefit from additional sources of increased revenue 
and margin associated with increased sales of Yamaha outboard motors through:  


Yamaha Motor Australia Pty Ltd – Proposed Acquisition of Telwater 
Page 13 of 19 
 
a. supplying floorplan financing and insurance services in connection with 
the wholesale supply of Yamaha outboard motors to dealers 
b. supplying retail financing and insurance to end customers through its 
expanded dealer network 
c. attaining a greater share of repowering sales over time as a higher 
proportion of new boats are fitted with Yamaha motors. The ACCC 
understands it is uncommon for end customers to switch outboard motor 
brands when repowering an aluminium trailer boat, including because of 
dealer relationships and costs to rig the boat for a different outboard 
motor brand. This could lead to increased Yamaha repower sales over 
time, and  
d. increased repower sales from Telwater dealers. Even if the merged entity 
did not require exclusivity for outboard motor sales as part of its 
contractual arrangements, it may not be commercially viable for dealers to 
continue to carry their current outboard motor brand alongside Yamaha. 
This is due to the potential loss or reduction of discounts, rebates or other 
financial support (for example, marketing contributions) from Yamaha 
and/or the rival brand if it were to stock both brands. However, as noted 
above, currently it is uncommon for end customers to switch outboard 
motor brands when repowering therefore the gains will depend on the 
extent to which rival outboard motor suppliers are foreclosed. 
Competitive effects of foreclosing outboard motor suppliers   
 
78. 
For the reasons explained at paragraph 76 above, the ACCC’s preliminary view is 
that if the merged entity linked the wholesale supply of Yamaha outboard motors 
to Telwater aluminium trailer boats, it would result in a material loss of sales for 
rival outboard motor suppliers as their dealers (who also retail Telwater boats) 
switch their purchases to Yamaha outboard motors.  
79. 
The ACCC is still considering how, and to what extent, a loss of sales would affect 
the competitiveness of rival outboard motor manufacturers, which are typically 
based overseas, including through reduced economies of scale or scope. Similarly, 
the ACCC continues to explore the impact of lost sales on the competitiveness of 
current or future rival importers. Relevant factors in this consideration are likely to 
include the importance of access to established sales channels, brand recognition 
and acceptance, and import costs.  
80. 
However, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the expected loss of sales and 
reduced distribution channel may materially affect the competitive constraint that 
rivals are able to exercise on the merged entity in the wholesale supply of outboard 
motors in Australia. 
81. 
The ACCC also considers that linking the wholesale supply of Yamaha outboard 
motors to Telwater aluminium trailer boats is likely to increase barriers to entry and 
expansion for current and future rivals because:  
a. such behaviour is likely to prevent, hinder or restrict access to dealer 
distribution, including by reducing the number and/or quality of available 
dealers through which to distribute competing outboard motors, and   


Yamaha Motor Australia Pty Ltd – Proposed Acquisition of Telwater 
Page 14 of 19 
 
b. barriers to entry and expansion for rival outboard motor suppliers may 
increase as the adoption of such a strategy may mean rivals are effectively 
required to enter, or sponsor the entry or expansion of suppliers in, the 
wholesale supply of aluminium trailer boats to compete effectively.  
Questions for market participants 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the competitive effects of the 
Proposed Acquisition on the wholesale supply of outboard motors. In particular, market 
participants may wish to comment on: 
• 
the extent to which Telwater aluminium trailer boats are an important product for 
dealers, and how any potential unavailability of Telwater boats would impact a dealer’s 
ability to compete 
• 
examples of how the merged entity could link the sales of Yamaha outboard motors to 
Telwater aluminium trailer boats through contractual or non-contractual mechanisms 
• 
whether the merged entity would have an incentive to link the sale of Yamaha outboard 
motors to Telwater aluminium trailer boats through contractual or non-contractual 
mechanisms  
• 
the extent to which rival outboard motor suppliers could offer an alternative product that 
effectively competes with a Yamaha/Telwater linked offering 
• 
the impact of a loss of scale on the ability of rival outboard motor suppliers to constrain 
the merged entity, and  
• 
how the linking of the wholesale supply of Yamaha outboard motors to Telwater 
aluminium trailer boats by the merged entity would affect barriers to entry and expansion 
in the wholesale supply of outboard motors in Australia, including any barriers that rival 
outboard motor suppliers would encounter in expanding the dealer network available to 
them, for example, through expanding existing repower dealers.  
Issue that may raise concerns – Foreclosure of competition in the 
wholesale supply of aluminium trailer boats in Australia 
 
82. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the Proposed Acquisition may have the effect 
of substantially lessening competition in the wholesale supply of aluminium trailer 
boats in Australia. 
83. 
The ACCC is concerned that the combined entity may have the ability and incentive 
to link the wholesale supply of Telwater aluminium trailer boats to Yamaha 
outboard motors and that this may have the effect of reducing rival aluminium 
trailer boat suppliers’ ability to compete and/or increase barriers to entry and 
expansion.   
84. 
The ACCC is particularly concerned that a material loss in sales for rival trailer boat 
manufacturers may significantly impact their economies of scale, and in turn their 
competitiveness. These boats are predominantly manufactured in Australia (with 
most supplied to the domestic market and only a small proportion for export), 
creating a greater risk that these businesses may be foreclosed and permanently 
exit the manufacture and supply of such boats.  


Yamaha Motor Australia Pty Ltd – Proposed Acquisition of Telwater 
Page 15 of 19 
 
Ability and incentive to foreclose rival aluminium trailer boat suppliers 
Yamaha’s market position in the wholesale supply of outboard motors 
 
85. 
Yamaha is a leading supplier of outboard motors. However, market feedback 
received by the ACCC suggests that Yamaha and Mercury are both equally 
regarded as leading brands, and share a similar proportion of outboard motor sales 
in Australia. Some market participants also considered that Suzuki provides some 
constraint to Yamaha, albeit with a significantly lower share of sales than Yamaha 
and Mercury. Other suppliers such as Honda and Tohatsu were generally regarded 
as providing less of a constraint.  
86. 
Post-acquisition, it is likely that Yamaha would retain (and potentially increase) its 
strong market position in the wholesale supply of outboard motors in Australia due 
to high barriers to entry and expansion, such as the importance of branding and the 
necessity of global manufacturing to achieve efficient scale.  
87. 
While the ACCC’s preliminary view is that Yamaha likely has a strong market 
position in the wholesale supply of outboard motors to Yamaha/non-Telwater 
dealers, Telwater has a relatively stronger market position in the wholesale supply 
of aluminium trailer boats to Telwater/non-Yamaha dealers. 
Potential mechanisms to link Telwater aluminium trailer boats to Yamaha outboard motors 
and demand for a linked offering 
 
88. 
The ACCC has not formed a concluded view on the mechanisms that the merged 
entity could use to link the wholesale supply of Telwater aluminium trailer boats to 
Yamaha outboard motors.  
89. 
Given the proportion of Yamaha’s sales that are for repowering used boats (i.e. are 
not purchased by end customers alongside a new aluminium trailer boat), any 
strategy to link the sale of Telwater aluminium trailer boats to Yamaha outboard 
motors would likely need to avoid requiring those end customers that wish to only 
repower an existing boat to buy a new Telwater aluminium trailer boat. 
90. 
For example, we are considering whether the merged entity could:  
a. contractually require Yamaha dealers to also become Telwater aluminium 
trailer boat dealers, including potential conditions that the dealer does not 
sell competing aluminium trailer boat brands or does not sell Yamaha 
outboard motors with any new rival aluminium trailer boats, and/or   
b. offer significant targeted discounts, allowances, rebates or credits to 
Yamaha dealers which currently retail competing aluminium trailer boat 
brands to incentivise them to limit their sales of rival aluminium trailer 
boats, including potential conditions that the dealer does not sell 
competing aluminium trailer boat brands or does not sell Yamaha 
outboard motors with any new rival aluminium trailer boats.  
91. 
The arrangements referred to at paragraph 90 above would allow Yamaha dealers 
to supply end customers with only an outboard motor to repower a used boat, but 


Yamaha Motor Australia Pty Ltd – Proposed Acquisition of Telwater 
Page 16 of 19 
 
would require or incentivise them to sell a Telwater/Yamaha package to any end 
customer purchasing a new aluminium trailer boat.7 
92. 
For similar reasons to those described at paragraphs 66–68 above, the ACCC 
considers that, if the merged entity could effectively link the sale of Telwater 
aluminium trailer boats to Yamaha outboard motors while mitigating the loss of 
repower sales, Yamaha dealers which retail rival aluminium trailer boats would be 
incentivised to switch to purchasing Telwater aluminium trailer boats.  
Additional considerations in the assessment of ability and incentive to link Telwater 
aluminium trailer boats to Yamaha outboard motors  
 
93. 
The ACCC is still considering a number of factors relevant to assessing the ability 
and incentive of the merged firm to link the wholesale supply of Telwater 
aluminium trailer boats to Yamaha outboard motors, including:    
a. the extent to which Yamaha dealers would, in practice, prefer an alternative 
provider of aluminium trailer boats in the absence of a linked offering from 
the merged entity, given the strength of the Telwater offering 
b. the potential and relative loss of forgone outboard motor sales (i.e. from 
dealers that switch outboard motor suppliers rather than switch their 
purchases away from their existing aluminium trailer boat brand) 
compared to the potential gains from increased sales of Telwater boats, 
and 
c. the size of the potential loss of sales incurred by rival aluminium trailer 
boat suppliers. This includes consideration of whether rival aluminium 
trailer boat suppliers could partner with a competing outboard motor 
supplier to provide a combined offering and/or establish its own dealer 
distribution network of aluminium trailer boats and outboard motors that 
would effectively constrain the Yamaha/Telwater linked product. 
Competitive effects of foreclosing rival aluminium trailer boat suppliers  
 
94. 
The ACCC has preliminary concerns that if the merged entity links the wholesale 
supply of Telwater aluminium trailer boats to Yamaha outboard motors, it may 
result in a material loss of sales for rival aluminium trailer boat suppliers as their 
dealers (who also retail Yamaha outboard motors) switch to retailing Telwater 
aluminium trailer boats. A material loss of sales for rival aluminium trailer boat 
brands could result in those suppliers being unable to maintain sufficient scale to 
remain effective competitors. 
95. 
The ACCC is also concerned that any strategy by the merged entity to effectively 
link the wholesale supply of Telwater aluminium trailer boats to Yamaha outboard 
motors may increase barriers to entry and expansion because:   
 
7  For this to work dealers would need to be able to effectively determine end customer preferences for a repower-only versus a 
new boat package, and the merged entity would need to have some ability to monitor and enforce the contractual 
arrangements. 


Yamaha Motor Australia Pty Ltd – Proposed Acquisition of Telwater 
Page 17 of 19 
 
a. such behaviour may prevent, hinder or restrict access to dealer distribution, 
including by reducing the number and/or quality of available dealers through 
which to distribute competing aluminium trailer boats, and   
b. barriers to entry and expansion for rival aluminium trailer boat suppliers may 
increase as such a strategy by the merged entity may, in addition to impacting 
the available dealer network, mean rivals need to simultaneously enter, or 
sponsor the entry or expansion of suppliers in, the wholesale supply of 
outboard motors to compete effectively.  
Questions for market participants 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary views regarding the 
competitive effects of the Proposed Acquisition on the wholesale supply of aluminium trailer 
boats. In particular, market participants may wish to comment on: 
• 
the extent to which Yamaha outboard motors are an important product for dealers, and 
how any potential unavailability of Yamaha outboard motors would impact a dealer’s 
ability to compete 
• 
examples of how the merged entity could link the sales of Telwater aluminium trailer 
boats to Yamaha outboard motors through contractual or non-contractual mechanisms 
• 
the extent to which rival aluminium trailer boat suppliers could offer an alternative 
product that effectively competes with a Telwater/Yamaha linked offering 
• 
the impact of a loss of scale on the ability of rival aluminium trailer boat suppliers to 
constrain the merged entity  
• 
whether the merged entity would have an incentive to link the sale of Telwater aluminium 
trailer boats to Yamaha outboard motors, and   
• 
how the linking of the wholesale supply of Telwater aluminium trailer boats to Yamaha 
outboard motors by the merged entity would affect barriers to entry and expansion in the 
market for the wholesale supply of aluminium trailer boats, including any barriers that 
rival aluminium trailer boat suppliers would encounter in expanding the dealer network 
available to them, for example, through expanding the offering of existing repower 
dealers to include aluminium trailer boats. 
Issue unlikely to raise concerns – reduced competition in the 
wholesale supply of aluminium trailer boats due to the merged 
entity’s access to commercially sensitive information of rivals 
 
96. 
Some market participants expressed concerns that post-acquisition, Telwater, as 
part of the merged entity, may have the ability and incentive to access and use 
commercially sensitive information concerning rival aluminium trailer boat 
suppliers, such as sales and turnover. This data could provide the merged firm with 
an unfair competitive advantage, negatively impacting competition in the wholesale 
supply of aluminium trailer boats.  
97. 
Market participants contended that the merged entity may obtain commercially 
sensitive information in the course of supplying Yamaha wholesale floorplan 


Yamaha Motor Australia Pty Ltd – Proposed Acquisition of Telwater 
Page 18 of 19 
 
financing, whether from Yamaha dealers that also retail non-Telwater aluminium 
trailer boats and/or directly from rival aluminium trailer boat suppliers purchasing 
Yamaha outboard motors for use in a BMT package.    
98. 
Some market participants were concerned that post-acquisition, Telwater’s access 
and use of this information could undermine a rival’s ability or incentive to compete 
aggressively. For example, Telwater’s access to such information could potentially 
give it the ability to pre-empt or quickly undercut a rival’s pro-competitive actions, 
and so may discourage rivals from fully pursuing competitive opportunities.  
99. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the Proposed Acquisition is unlikely to lead to 
a substantial lessening of competition in the wholesale supply of aluminium trailer 
boats in Australia as a result of the merged entity’s access to rivals’ commercially 
sensitive information. This is because access to basic financial information such 
as rivals’ turnover, in the circumstances of this market, is unlikely to enable the 
merged entity to foreclose rivals. The ACCC notes that it is unclear that the merged 
entity will obtain access to more valuable information such as rivals’ wholesale 
prices or volumes, business plans and/or market growth strategies.    
100. The ACCC welcomes feedback on the extent to which the merged firm is likely to 
obtain a commercial advantage as a result of its access to its rivals’ information 
and the potential impact of access to, and use of, such information on competition. 
Questions for market participants 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary views. In particular, 
market participants may wish to comment on: 
• 
the commercially sensitive information that Telwater, as part of the merged entity, would 
have access to through Yamaha’s floorplan financing arrangements, or other financial 
services provided by the merged entity  
• 
how such commercially sensitive information would benefit the merged entity  
• 
the likely response from rival aluminium trailer boat suppliers (for instance, could they 
stop sharing the commercially sensitive information with the merged entity but still work 
with Yamaha? Could they switch to working with a rival outboard motor supplier other 
than Yamaha?), and     
• 
the likely impact on rival aluminium trailer boat suppliers/dealers as a consequence of 
the merged entity’s access to such commercially sensitive information. 
ACCC's future steps 
 
101. As noted above, the ACCC invites submissions from market participants on each of 
the issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that may be 
relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. Submissions should be emailed 
to mergers@accc.gov.au by no later than 23 October 2025. 
102. The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions invited 
by this Statement of Issues. 
103. The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 4 December 2025. 
However the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Informal Merger 


Yamaha Motor Australia Pty Ltd – Proposed Acquisition of Telwater 
Page 19 of 19 
 
Review Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment explaining the 
ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's public announcement. 
 
