 
 
 
20 June 2007 
 
Statement of Issues — Healthscope Limited - proposed 
acquisition of Symbion Health Limited’s pathology, 
medical centre and imaging businesses 
1. 
Outlined below is the Statement of Issues released by the Australian 
Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) in relation to the proposed 
acquisition of Symbion Health Limited’s (Symbion) pathology, medical 
centre and imaging businesses by Healthscope Limited (Healthscope) 
(proposed acquisition).  
2. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as 
well as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to 
undertake. 
3. 
In line with the ACCC’s Merger Review Process Guidelines (available on the 
ACCC’s website at www.accc.gov.au) the ACCC has established a secondary 
timeline for further consideration of the issues. The ACCC anticipates 
completing further market inquiries by 11 July 2007 and anticipates making a 
final decision on 25 July 2007. However, the anticipated timeline can change 
in line with the Merger Review Process Guidelines. To keep abreast of 
possible changes in relation to timing and to find relevant documents, market 
participants should visit the Mergers Register on the ACCC's website at 
www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
4. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties 
(including customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to 
ascertain and consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also 
intended to provide the merger parties and other interested parties with the 
basis for making further submissions should they consider it necessary. 
Background 
5. 
On 1 May 2007, the ACCC commenced an informal review of the proposed 
acquisition pursuant to the ACCC’s Merger Review Process Guidelines. 


 
The parties 
Healthscope Limited 
6. 
Healthscope is a public company listed on the Australian Stock Exchange.  
Healthscope is involved in the following businesses: 
• The ownership and/ or management of 48 private medical, surgical, 
rehabilitation and psychiatric hospitals in Australia. 
• The operation of pathology businesses in all Australia states and 
territories except the Northern Territory.  Healthscope’s pathology 
businesses operate under the names General Pathology Laboratories, 
Cutaneous Pathology and Mount Pathology (Western Australia), 
Gribbles Pathology (Victoria, Queensland and South Australia), and 
Davies Campbell de Lambert Pathology (New South Wales and 
Australian Capital Territory). 
• The operation of specialist skin cancer clinics across Australia   
• A minority, non-controlling, interest in NM&IG Medical Pty Ltd. 
NM&IG Medical Pty Ltd operates a number of medical centres. 
Symbion Health Limited 
7. 
Symbion is a public company listed on the Australian Stock Exchange.  
Symbion’s business units include pathology, medical centres, diagnostic 
imaging, pharmacy and consumer products.   
8. 
Symbion’s pathology business operates under the names Dorevitch Pathology 
(Victoria, New South Wales), Gippsland Pathology Services (Victoria), 
Laverty Pathology (New South Wales, Australian Capital Territory), QML 
Pathology (Queensland and Northern New South Wales) and Western 
Diagnostic Pathology (Western Australian and Northern Territory). 
The transaction 
9. 
Healthscope proposes to acquire all of Symbion by way of a scheme of 
arrangement. If the scheme is successful, all the shares in Symbion would be 
acquired by Healthscope. 
10. 
Healthscope has entered into an agreement with Ironbridge Capital and 
Archer Capital whereby Healthscope will subsequently divest Symbion’s 
pharmacy and consumer businesses to Ironbridge Capital and Archer Capital. 
Ironbridge Capital and Archer Capital are private equity investors in 
Australasian markets.  
11. 
Healthscope will retain Symbion’s pathology, medical centre and diagnostic 
imaging businesses.   
 
2


 
Areas of Overlap  
12. 
The ACCC understands that the main area of overlap between Healthscope’s 
and Symbion’s businesses is in the provision of pathology services. 
Consequently, the overlap between Healthscope’s and Symbion’s pathology 
services is the focus of this Statement of Issues. 
Market Background  
Pathology services 
13. 
Pathology is the branch of clinical medicine concerned with understanding 
the causes and processes of diseases and providing scientific analysis which 
forms an essential basis for medical diagnosis and treatment. Pathology 
testing is required by patients and doctors in both community and hospital 
settings and is provided by both private and public pathologists.  
Pathology providers 
14. 
Apart from Healthscope and Symbion, other private pathology service 
providers in Australia include Sonic Healthcare (all states and territories), St 
John of God Pathology (Victoria and Western Australia), St Vincent’s 
(Victoria and New South Wales), Primary Health Care (New South Wales, 
Victoria, South Australia and Queensland), Analytical Reference Laboratories 
(Victoria) and Perth Medical Laboratories (Western Australia). The ACCC 
also notes that public pathology providers may undertake some private 
pathology work, for example, services to private patients in public hospitals.  
Public pathology providers include providers such as Southern Cross 
Pathology, Network Pathology, Eastern Health, Royal Children’s Hospital, 
and PathWest. 
Customers 
15. 
The ACCC understands that there are three primary classes of customers for 
private pathology providers: (i) patients whose tests are ordered by a General 
Practitioner; (ii) patients whose tests are ordered by a specialist; and (iii) tests 
for private in-patients in private or public hospitals.  Healthscope submits that 
70 per cent of pathology tests are ordered by General Practitioners, followed 
by 20 per cent of tests ordered by specialists and the remainder for private in-
patients at public hospitals and private hospitals.  
16. 
Samples from patients referred by a general practitioner can be collected by 
the general practitioner and picked up by the pathology provider, collected by 
the patient themselves who provides it to the general practitioner and picked 
up by the pathology provider or collected at a collection centre of the 
pathology provider. 
17. 
There is also some demand for commercial and veterinary pathology services. 
Commercial or industrial pathology services may be provided to 
pharmaceutical companies requiring clinical trial testing, government and 
 
3


 
quasi government tenders (for example, drug testing by public sector agencies 
of their staff), companies requiring blood alcohol testing of its staff on-site(eg 
mining companies) etc. Veterinary pathology services may be provided to 
veterinarians who treat companion animals, or with respect to livestock and 
production animals. 
Regulation 
18. 
The pathology industry is characterised by a high degree of regulation. The 
regulatory framework covers all aspects of pathology service provision. Some 
of the key regulatory requirements are outlined below. 
Bulkbilling under the Medicare Benefits Scheme and co-payments  
19. 
Under the Medicare Benefits Scheme (MBS), the Commonwealth 
government is the principal funder of pathology services. Individual patients’ 
Medicare benefit entitlements for pathology services are prescribed by the 
Health Insurance Act 1973 (HIA Act) and the Health Insurance (Pathology 
Services Table) Regulations 2005 (PST Regulations). 
20. 
Where a Medicare benefit entitlement arises the eligible patient may assign 
their right to the Medicare benefit to their pathology service provider through 
the practice of bulkbilling. 
21. 
Medicare benefits are only payable for 85 per cent of the MBS schedule fee 
for a pathology test. A pathology service provider can choose to bulkbill a 
patient whereby the patient will authorise the pathology service provider to 
receive the 85 per cent Medicare benefit as its fee. 
22. 
Where a pathology service provider elects to bulkbill a patient, the pathology 
service provider cannot levy a co-payment on the patient. A co-payment is a 
payment in addition to the Medicare benefit received by the pathology service 
provider for that service. This is because under the HIA, a pathology service 
provider who bulkbills must accept assignment of the Medicare benefit from 
the patient as full payment for the service. 
23. 
Where a pathology service provider does not bulkbill, the provider is not 
restricted in the price it can charge a patient for pathology services. 
Coning 
24. 
Coning legislation was introduced in 1995 in order to limit any incentive for 
over-servicing. This legislation only applies to pathology services requested 
by general practitioners outside a hospital. Coning is a process whereby the 
PST Regulations limits the entitlement to Medicare benefits for pathology 
services generally as follows: 
• If the pathology service provider bulkbills, it is only paid the Medicare 
benefit for the three most expensive tests. 
 
4


 
• If the pathology service provider does not bulkbill, it is paid for all the 
tests (by the patient) but the patient can only claim the Medicare benefit 
for the three most expensive tests. The patient cannot claim any 
Medicare benefit for any additional tests above the three most expensive 
tests. 
Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between the Department of Health and Ageing 
(DHA), Australian Association of Pathology Practices Inc (AAPP), the Royal College 
of Pathologists of Australasia (RCPA) and the National Coalition of Public Pathology 
(NCOPP) 
25. 
The MOU is a document signed by the Australian Government, AAPP, 
RCPA and the NCOPP. The current MOU was signed in 2004 and is valid 
until 30 June 2009. 
26. 
The MOU seeks to manage growth in government outlays for pathology 
testing under the MBS arrangements so that annual increases in government 
outlays for pathology testing do not exceed agreed-upon target levels. The 
current MOU provides for target growth rates in MBS outlays ranging 
between 4.6 per cent per annum and 5.8 per cent per annum over the duration 
of the agreement. 
27. 
The ACCC understands that where pathology service providers elect not to 
bulkbill, those payments do not go towards expenditures relevant to the MOU 
targeted expenditure levels. 
Regulatory controls on the quality of pathology services 
28. 
The HIA Act imposes conditions under which a pathology service will attract 
Medicare benefits. The ACCC understands that these conditions seek to 
regulate the quality of pathology services. The overlying requirements for a 
Medicare benefit to be payable in respect of a pathology service include the 
following: 
• Determined necessary by the treating practitioner. 
• Rendered by or on behalf of an approved pathology practitioner (APP). 
• Rendered in an approved pathology laboratory accredited for that kind 
of service (APL). 
• Rendered in an APL owned by an approved pathology authority (APA). 
29. 
MBS eligible pathology tests must be performed in a laboratory accredited 
under the Health Insurance (Accredited Pathology Laboratories – Approval) 
Principles 2002. 
30. 
The National Association of Testing Authorities (NATA) is responsible for 
accrediting APLs. 
 
 
5


 
Licensing regime for approved collection centres 
31. 
The allocation of collection centres licences is currently regulated under the 
Health Insurance (Eligible Collection Centres) Approval Principles 2005 
(Current ECC Principles). The ACCC understands that these regulations are 
due to change on 1 July 2007 to regulations under the Health Insurance 
(Eligible Collection Centres) Approval Principles 2007 (New ECC 
Principles).  
32. 
Under the current ECC Principles, a new pathology service provider with a 
suitably accredited laboratory is allocated two licences to set up collection 
centres whereas under the new ECC Principles, a new entrant will be 
allocated four such licences.  
33. 
Under the new ECC principles, additional allocation of licences will be 
calculated based on the existing number of collection centre licences a 
pathology service provider has and the rate of national population growth. 
34. 
Under the new ECC principles, collection centre licences cannot be traded 
between APAs. 
Statutory independence of medical practitioners 
35. 
The ACCC understands that under the HIA Act, a pathology service provider 
is prohibited from entering into arrangement with medical practitioners 
whereby the medical practitioner refers all its patients to the pathology 
service provider. A pathology service provider is also prevented from 
inducing referrals from medical practitioners. 
36. 
The ACCC further understands that it is the medical practitioner and not the 
pathology services provider who decides whether a patient will be bulkbilled 
or privately billed, as the referral form provided by the medical practitioner to 
the pathology service provider requires this election to be made. 
Market Definition  
37. 
The ACCC has assessed the proposed acquisition in a number of different 
markets.  
Pathology services 
38. 
The most relevant market for the purposes of this Statement of Issues is the 
market for pathology services. 
39. 
The ACCC considers that pathology services do not form part of a ‘cluster 
market’ for hospital services. Pathology services are supplied to customers 
outside hospitals and can be unbundled from other hospital services relatively 
easily.  
40. 
The ACCC notes that public hospital in-patients are generally covered by a 
State based funding system covering all services provided during a hospital 
 
6


 
stay. A public hospital patient does not exercise choice between pathology 
service providers, a patient’s choice to use a public hospital generally reflects 
a choice between the public and private health systems rather than a choice of 
pathology service provider. 
41. 
In its 2004 consideration of an application for the review of the ACCC’s 
decision with respect to an authorisation application by the Australian 
Association of Pathology Practices Incorporated and the New South Wales 
Department of Health, the Australian Competition Tribunal (ACT) considered 
a market for the provision of pathology services (excluding public hospital in-
patients) in the geographic areas no broader than New South Wales. The ACT 
considered that depending on circumstances, the geographic dimensions 
could be narrower. 
42. 
The ACCC considers that there are state based markets for the provision of 
pathology services by public and private pathology service providers 
(excluding services to public hospital in-patients) (state based pathology 
services markets).   
43. 
In considering state based markets, the ACCC notes the following factors: 
• Whilst some pathology samples may be transported interstate for testing, 
in general, the proportion of samples tested interstate appears to be 
relatively low. 
 
• The urgent nature of some tests (eg blood matching) requires prompt 
testing and reporting of results. 
 
• A state based presence may be necessary to facilitate awareness with 
general practitioners and develop relationships. 
 
Veterinary pathology services 
44. 
The ACCC considers that there are state based markets for the provision of 
veterinary pathology services for all types of animals, including companion 
and livestock (state based markets for veterinary pathology services). 
45. 
In considering state based markets for veterinary pathology services, the 
ACCC notes the following factors: 
• Veterinary pathology services are provided by specialist veterinarian 
pathologists. 
• Veterinary pathology service provision is regulated by state 
governments. 
Public hospital pathology services 
46. 
The ACCC considers that there is a national market for the provision of 
pathology services to public, uninsured in-patients at a public hospital under 
contract (public hospital pathology services market).  
 
7


 
47. 
A pathology service provider to a public hospital typically has a laboratory 
on-site with the bulk of the testing done at the laboratory. This is due to the 
rapid turnaround times associated with many of the services (including 
emergency) provided at a public hospital. 
48. 
In considering a national market for public hospital pathology services, the 
ACCC notes that interstate pathology service providers can tender for 
contracts to provide pathology services at a public hospital. If successful, a 
pathology service provider can establish its laboratory at a public hospital and 
commence its operations. 
Market Inquiries  
49. 
On 1 May 2007 the ACCC commenced market inquiries regarding the 
proposed acquisition. A range of interested parties provided responses, 
including other private pathology service providers, public pathology service 
providers and industry bodies.  
Statement of Issues   
50. 
For the purposes of this Statement of Issues, the issues in this matter are 
divided into three categories: 'Issues of concern', ‘Issues that may raise 
concerns’ and 'Issues unlikely to raise concerns'. The ACCC is inviting 
information from interested parties (preferably supported by examples and 
quantitative data) in relation to all issues. 
Issues of concern  
51. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is likely to 
raise competition concerns in the Victorian pathology services market given 
that the merged entity will be the largest pathology services provider in a 
market that is characterised by high barriers to entry and expansion and few 
substitute pathology service providers. The ACCC considers that smaller, 
niche pathology service providers are unlikely to provide a competitive 
constraint on the merged entity. 
52. 
Further, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that post acquisition, market 
structures in Victoria, Queensland and Western Australia are likely to 
increase the ability and incentive for coordinated conduct between the merged 
entity and Sonic.   
Pathology services markets 
53. 
Healthscope has provided figures which the ACCC has reproduced in tabular 
format below showing the market concentrations of the largest national 
pathology service providers in Australia, namely Sonic Healthcare Limited 
(Sonic), Healthscope and Symbion: 
 
 
8


 
State 
Symbion 
Healthscope 
Sonic 
Others 
Northern Territory 
64% 
NIL 
27% 
9% 
Queensland 
45% 
5% 
46% 
4% 
New South Wales and 
the Australian Capital 
Territory 
28% 
4% 
42% 
26% 
Tasmania 
NIL 
13% 
83% 
4% 
Victoria 
33% 
21% 
20% 
26% 
Western Australia 
32% 
10% 
24% 
34% 
(Reproduced with the permission of Healthscope) 
54. 
Healthscope has derived the above estimated market shares based on the 
number of collection centres each pathology service provider has in each 
state/ territory. 
55. 
According to the market share data provided by Healthscope, the proposed 
acquisition will result in the greatest accretion of market share to the merged 
entity in Victoria and Western Australia. 
56. 
The ACCC notes that the proposed acquisition will result in an increased 
concentration in the already concentrated Queensland market for the 
provision of pathology services. 
57. 
Further, the proposed acquisition will result in the largest two pathology 
service providers accounting for more than 70 per cent of pathology service 
provision in Australia. 
58. 
Different market share data has been received from market participants, 
drawn from Medicare Benefit Schedule estimates. 
59. 
The ACCC seeks information on the most appropriate means by which 
market shares in the provision of pathology services should be calculated. 
Victorian market for the provision of pathology services 
 
60. 
The ACCC understands that the proposed acquisition will increase market 
concentration in Victoria, resulting in the merger of the largest player 
(Symbion) and the second largest player (Healthscope). The merged entity 
will account for 54 per cent (309 collection centres) of all collection centres 
in Victoria. Sonic will account for 20 per cent (116 collection centres) of all 
collection centres in Victoria.  
61. 
The ACCC considers that the merged entity is likely to possess sufficient 
market power in the Victorian market for the provision of pathology services 
either by unilaterally raising prices for the provision of pathology services by 
 
9


 
moving away from bulkbilling patients or by decreasing the quality of 
pathology service provision to the minimum levels required by regulation.  
62. 
The ACCC notes that the proposed acquisition also raises the likelihood of 
coordinated conduct between the merged entity and Sonic, which is discussed 
below. 
63. 
The ACCC notes that the remaining players in this market are small/medium 
sized in comparison and include players such as St John of God, St Vincent’s 
Pathology, ARL Group and Pathlab. The ACCC considers that smaller, niche 
pathology service providers are unlikely to provide a competitive constraint 
on the merged entity. 
64. 
The following table, reproduced from information provided by Healthscope, 
lists the market participants in the Victorian pathology services market:  
 
10


 
 
VICTORIA – Number of collection centres allocated to pathology service providers 
Symbion 
186 
Healthscope 
123 
Sonic 
116 
St John of God/ PathCare 
47 
St Vincents Pathology 
30 
ARL Group 
18 
Pathlab 
16 
Cabrini Pathology 
10 
Southern Cross Pathology 
6 
Network Pathology 
5 
Eastern Health 
4 
Tissupath 
3 
Monash Reproductive Path 
2 
SDS Pathology  
2 
Alfred Pathology 
1 
Jolimont Pathology 
1 
Royal Children’s Hospital 
1 
Skinpath Pathology 
1 
Vic Clinical Genetics Serv 
1 
VTIS 
1 
(Reproduced with permission from Healthscope) 
Barriers to entry and expansion 
65. 
 The ACCC considers that barriers to entry and expansion are high. The 
ACCC has received some contradictory submissions during its market 
inquiries on a number of issues pertaining to barriers to entry and expansion. 
The ACCC seeks further information and evidence to resolve these issues. In 
particular, the ACCC seeks information on the following issues: 
 
 
11


 
Costs of establishment 
66. 
What are the approximate costs associated with establishing a general 
pathology provision business capable of providing all sub-specialty pathology 
testing? 
67. 
Can a new entrant source reliable second-hand equipment or lease equipment 
from a reagent supplier with relative ease? 
68. 
What are the cost differences in setting up a laboratory capable of testing all 
sub-specialties and a smaller laboratory which may conduct tests associated 
with a specific sub-specialty, eg histopathology? 
69. 
What is the cost to establish a general pathology service business of sufficient 
scale to compete with medium to large pathology service providers such as 
Saint John of God and Healthscope? 
Importance of collection centres  
70. 
Smaller pathology providers have relatively fewer collection centres in 
comparison to the larger players.  The ACCC notes that there are some 
smaller players who may not provide the full range of pathology services (eg 
chemical, haematology, microbiology, histopathology, immunology, 
cytopathology etc), but rather focus on a specific area (eg Tissupath in 
Victoria focuses on skin histopathology and fungal identification).   
71. 
Smaller players also face some barriers to expansion that may limit their 
ability to compete on a larger scale and effectively constrain the merged 
entity. In particular, licensing arrangements for collection centres may limit 
the speed at which smaller players may expand, and that the industry may be 
facing a shortage of pathologists in Australia. 
72. 
The ACCC seeks further information on the level of competitive constraint 
that smaller or niche players currently pose on larger players and the ability of 
such smaller and niche players to expand their service offering to compete 
effectively against the merged entity.  In particular, the ACCC seeks 
information on the following: 
(i) 
The number of collection centres and locations of those collection 
centres that would be necessary in order to compete effectively with 
the merged entity (please provide reasons). 
(ii) The importance of collection centres in providing a pathology service 
– in particular, the viability of deriving samples without the use of 
collection centres (eg through doctor collect). 
(iii) The importance of collection centres in competing for referrals from 
general practitioners or specialists. 
(iv) The extent to which it is the presence (laboratory and/ or collection 
centre) in a particular region (metropolitan or country area) that is 
 
12


 
necessary for the development and maintenance of customer 
relationships (eg with general practitioners or specialists). 
(v) 
The importance of economies of scale to a niche, smaller pathology 
service provider when expanding into the provision of general 
pathology services. 
73. 
The ACCC also seeks to understand the effect collection centres have on the 
costs of providing pathology services in a particular area. Could a pathology 
provider offer services in a particular area in a cost efficient manner if it does 
not have a collection centre in that area? If not, why not? 
74. 
The ACCC also seeks further information from pathology service providers 
on the percentage of samples derived outside the collection centre system. 
Interstate pathology providers ability to expand into Victoria 
75. 
The ACCC also seeks further information on the likelihood of new entry by 
interstate pathology providers with sufficient scale to compete effectively 
against the merged entity in Victoria. In particular, the ACCC seeks 
information on the following: 
(i) 
The importance of branding and marketing on a state/ territory level. 
(ii) The ease with which interstate providers can secure referrals in another 
state/ territory without establishing collection centre/s and/ or 
laboratories. 
(iii) Evidence of any interstate provider who has successfully entered the 
Victorian pathology services market and captured market share. 
Merged entity’s vertical links acting as barriers to entry and expansion 
76. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view based on market inquiries to date is that 
vertical integration by the parties to the proposed acquisition, namely through 
the ownership of medical centres and private hospitals, are likely to represent 
a barrier to expansion. The ACCC seeks further information on whether this 
barrier is significant or can be otherwise overcome. In particular, the ACCC 
seeks information on the following: 
(i) 
The time and cost for a new entrant to establish a network of collection 
centres and/ or a collection courier service which would provide 
comparable scale to a network of co-located collection centres at 
medical centres. 
(ii) The availability of alternative medical centres where pathology service 
providers other than the merged entity can co-locate collection centres in 
Victoria. 
(iii) The extent to which the HIA Act’s provisions prohibiting inducements 
or incentives for doctors to refer patients to pathology service providers 
 
13


 
lessens any advantage there is in co-locating collection centres at a 
medical centre. 
(iv) The factors which general practitioners and specialists at hospitals take 
into consideration when referring their patients to a pathology service 
provider. 
(v) 
The ease with which a pathology service provider can supply a private 
hospital without establishing a laboratory or collection centre on-site. 
Shortage of pathologists 
77. 
The ACCC seeks further information and evidence on the importance of 
securing pathologists when seeking to expand a pathology service business. 
In particular, the ACCC seeks further information on the following: 
(i) 
The ability to expand through the purchase of equipment and 
employment of medical scientist staff in some highly automated sub-
specialties, for example chemical testing. 
(ii) A pathology service provider’s ability to expand by employing scientific 
staff who can work under the oversight of a pathologist. 
(iii)  The ease with which overseas pathologists can commence practice in 
Australia. 
(iv) Whether a pathology provider can seek to engage the services of a 
pathologist working for another business, on a full-time or a part-time 
basis,  through offering higher remuneration. 
Regulatory framework for public state government funded pathology providers, 
including patient episode initiation (PEI) fees  
78. 
The ACCC seeks further information on the differences between the PEI fees 
a public, state government funded provider receives compared to a private 
provider. The ACCC also seeks information on the proportion of revenues of 
a private provider that PEI fees normally provide. 
79. 
The ACCC seeks any other information on the regulatory requirements faced 
by a public state government funded provider, particularly with respect to the 
resources available to public pathology providers for expansion and whether 
public pathology providers have any control over the types of tests they 
provide to best utilise their resources. 
Price and non-price competition  
Price competition 
80. 
The ACCC understands that where pathology services are not bulkbilled a 
pathology service provider seeking co-payments can set its own prices. 
 
14


 
81. 
Further information is sought on the incentives for a pathology service 
provider to bulkbill. In particular, the ACCC seeks information on the 
following: 
(i) 
The administrative and other costs associated with defaults on payments 
and in establishing systems to manage individual billing. 
(ii) The preference of a referring General Practitioner for pathology service 
providers to bulkbill. The options available to a General Practitioner if a 
pathology service provider refuses to bulkbill. 
(iii) The preference of a referring Specialist for pathology service providers 
to bulkbill. The options available to a Specialist if a pathology service 
provider refuses to bulkbill. Any circumstances in which a Specialist is 
restricted to using a pathology service provider on-site at a private 
hospital. 
(iv) The influence, if any, of health funds and the Repatriation Commission 
on the referral choices doctors make in private hospitals. 
(v) 
The influence, if any, of health funds and the Repatriation Commission 
on the decision of pathology providers to bulkbill, and the size of any 
gap payments.  
82. 
Do pathology providers decide to bulkbill (or not bulkbill) on a: 
(i) 
Patient-by-patient basis? 
(ii) Test by test basis? 
(iii) Region by region basis? 
(iv) General Practitioner’s personal preference? 
(v) 
Specialist’s personal preference? 
(vi) Some other basis? 
83. 
Where a pathology service provider chooses not to bulkbill, what constrains 
the provider’s pricing?  
84. 
What proportion of pathology tests are not covered by the Medicare 
Schedule? Of these ‘non-bulkbilled’ tests, how often are they typically 
ordered by referring doctors? Which pathology service providers tend to offer 
such tests? Are volumes of these tests likely to vary by region or by state? 
85. 
The following graph, reproduced from the Medicare Annual Report 2005-
2006, shows the level of bulkbilling for pathology services in each state and 
territory: 
 
 
15


 
State 
NSW 
VIC 
QLD 
SA 
WA 
TAS 
ACT 
NT 
Bulkbilling 
rate 
87% 
84% 
85% 
88% 
86% 
76% 
88% 
96% 
 
86. 
The ACCC seeks information on why bulkbilling rates differ between states 
and territories. The ACCC notes that bulkbilling rates may differ between 
regions in states and territories and seeks evidence of such differences and 
information on why these differences exist.  
Non-price competition 
87. 
The ACCC also understands that whilst the NATA accreditation regime 
provides for a minimum standard in the quality of pathology service 
provision, pathology service providers compete above this standard, eg speed 
of service, responsiveness to doctor inquiries, provision of telephone advice, 
frequency of courier visits etc. 
88. 
The ACCC seeks further information on the extent to which pathology 
service providers compete through developing relationships with referring 
doctors and how such relationships may be affected post-acquisition. 
89. 
The ACCC invites comment on the ability and incentive for the merged entity 
to increase its profit margins through a corresponding decrease in its services.  
90. 
In particular, the ACCC invites comments on the ability and incentives for the 
merged entity to decrease its rate of bulkbilling and the ability and incentives 
for the merged entity to decrease the quality of services that may not be 
subject to NATA approval. 
Likelihood of coordinated conduct –Victoria, Queensland and Western Australia 
91. 
The ACCC considers that post-acquisition, the likelihood of coordinated 
conduct is increased and notes the following factors in relation to the 
likelihood of coordinated conduct in Victoria, Queensland and Western 
Australia post acquisition: 
(i) 
In Victoria, the acquisition would result in two major players in the 
market - the merged entity (with approximately 54% market share) 
followed by Sonic (with 20% market share).  The ACCC notes that the 
remainder of the market is comprised of a number of smaller players 
with the third largest player holding approximately 8% market share. 
(ii) In Queensland, the acquisition would also result in two major players in 
the market - the merged entity (with approximately 50% market share) 
followed by Sonic (with 46% market share).  The remaining players in 
the market jointly account for approximately 4% of the market. The 
acquisition may involve the removal of a possibly vigorous and effective 
competitor. 
 
16


 
(iii) In Western Australia, the acquisition would result in the merged entity 
(with approximately 42% market share) as the clear market leader 
followed by Sonic (approximately 24% market share) and St John of 
God (approximately 18.5% market share). 
(iv) Post-acquisition, the same two providers (namely the merged entity and 
Sonic) will be the main two pathology providers in a larger number of 
states than pre-acquisition. This increased multi-market contact between 
the same pair of pathology service providers increases the feasibility of 
coordinated conduct as the merged entity and Sonic will be better able to 
monitor each other’s behaviour and to reciprocate any behaviour in one 
market in another market.   
(v) 
Multi-market contact between the merged entity and Sonic (and St John 
of God in Western Australia and Victoria) may facilitate tacit 
coordination between these players. 
(vi) Licensing arrangements for collection centres may limit the rate at 
which smaller or fringe players may expand.  This may limit the ability 
of smaller or fringe players to undermine coordinated conduct by the 
major players in each of Victoria, Queensland and Western Australia. 
(vii) The ACCC notes that Sonic is of comparable size and scale to the 
merger parties, with similar service offerings. 
(viii) The merger parties and Sonic are members of common industry 
associations (eg Australian Association of Pathology Practices).  The 
ACCC notes that industry associations and forums may facilitate the 
flow of information on prices and outputs between market participants 
and/or may facilitate them reaching an agreement.   
92. 
The ACCC invites market participants to provide further information on 
decreased incentive to compete and increased ability to coordinate conduct by 
the merged entity and remaining major players in Victoria, Queensland and 
Western Australia, and if so how.  In particular, the ACCC invites further 
information on: 
(i) 
The extent to which Healthscope has been a vigorous and effective 
competitor or has been attempting to raise its market share in Western 
Australia and in Queensland. 
(ii) The transparency of pathology prices between the major suppliers. 
(iii) How the proposed acquisition would affect firm symmetry between the 
merged entity and Sonic, including symmetry of their market shares, 
costs and service range. 
(iv) The existence of any environmental factors that would facilitate or 
hinder coordination eg increased market transparency through industry 
reports and inter-firm comparisons, stability of market shares of the 
major players (eg through regulatory arrangements). 
 
17


 
(v) 
Whether there is a ‘maverick’ pathology service provider that offers a 
distinct point of service to distinguish itself in the market to secure more 
referrals. 
Issues that may raise concerns  
Victorian veterinary pathology services market 
93. 
Both Healthscope and Symbion provide pathology services to veterinarians. 
Healthscope provides veterinary pathology services primarily in Victoria, 
South Australia and Tasmania. Symbion provides veterinary services in New 
South Wales, Western Australia and Victoria.  
94. 
The ACCC considers that given the increase in market concentration in the 
Victorian veterinary pathology services market post-acquisition, competition 
concerns may arise in the Victorian market for veterinary pathology services 
if the merged entity is not constrained by substitutes post-acquisition. 
Substitutes  
95. 
The ACCC seeks further information on the level of competitive constraint 
state government funded laboratories and commercial university based 
laboratories pose on private veterinary pathology service providers such as 
Healthscope and Symbion. 
96. 
The ACCC understands that there are some smaller private veterinary 
pathology providers who do not have NATA accreditation. The ACCC seeks 
further information on the identities of such smaller private veterinary 
pathology providers in Victoria and the level of competitive constraint such 
smaller providers pose to private veterinary pathology service providers such 
as Healthscope and Symbion. 
97. 
The ACCC seeks further information on the ease with which a human 
pathology service provider can switch to providing veterinary pathology 
services.  
98. 
Further information is also sought on the extent to which interstate veterinary 
pathology providers constrain veterinary pathology service providers in 
Victoria. Is the presence (laboratory and/or collection centre) in a particular 
state and/ or region necessary for the development and maintenance of 
customer relationships (eg with veterinarians, breeders or farmers)? 
Issues unlikely to raise concerns 
Public hospital pathology services market 
99. 
The ACCC notes that in Victoria, some regional public hospitals have 
outsourced their pathology services requirements. Both Healthscope and 
Symbion have tendered and been successful in obtaining contracts to provide 
pathology services in some Victorian regional public hospitals.  
 
18


 
100. The ACCC considers that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to raise 
concerns in relation to the national public hospital pathology services market. 
This opinion reflects information received during market inquiries that 
suggests that: 
• Public hospitals are likely to have significant countervailing power when 
negotiating contracts with private pathology providers for the provision 
of pathology services. 
• A public hospital can choose to provide its requirements in-house, which 
public hospitals continue to do across Australia. 
• Contracts for public hospital pathology services are long term and can 
be contested by private providers who do not have a presence in the state 
where the public hospital is located.  
Medical centres 
101. Healthscope does not have a controlling interest in any medical centre 
business in Australia. Healthscope’s specialist skin cancer clinics are not 
medical centres and provide a specialised service in diagnosing skin cancers. 
Symbion is the third largest medical centre business in Australia, by annual 
revenue. 
102. The ACCC considers that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to raise 
concerns in relation to medical centres given there is no overlap between 
Healthscope’s businesses and Symbion’s medical centres. 
Commercial customers 
103. The ACCC understands that Healthscope and Symbion do some commercial 
work. 
104. Commercial customers requiring pathology testing include Pharmaceutical 
companies requiring clinical trial testing, corporate tenders (for example, 
mining companies requiring blood alcohol testing for its staff on-site) and 
commercial insurance customers. 
105. Commercial customers pathology testing requirements are not covered by 
Medicare benefit payments. The ACCC understands that commercial 
customers requirements vary, ranging from common testing through to more 
specialised testing. 
106. The ACCC considers that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to raise 
concerns in relation to the provision of pathology services to commercial 
customers. This opinion reflects information received during market inquiries 
that suggests that: 
• Commercial pathology work is contestable by large and medium-sized 
pathology providers.  
 
19


 
• Industrial (non-pathology) laboratories compete for some commercial 
pathology testing, for example pharmaceutical testing. 
Diagnostic Imaging Services 
107. Healthscope does not own any diagnostic imaging business. Symbion owns a 
diagnostic imaging business with operations across Victoria, Queensland and 
New South Wales. 
108. The ACCC notes that given that there is no overlap between Symbion’s 
diagnostic imaging services business and Healthscope’s businesses, 
Healthscope’s proposed acquisition of Symbion’s diagnostic imaging 
business is unlikely to result in a substantial lessening of competition in any 
relevant markets.  
Private hospitals 
109. Healthscope owns or manages 48 private hospitals. Symbion neither owns nor 
manages any private hospital. 
110. The ACCC considers that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to raise 
concerns in relation to private hospitals given that there is no overlap between 
Healthscope’s private hospital business and Symbion’s businesses. 
Northern Territory, South Australian and Tasmanian markets for pathology 
services 
111. At this stage, given that there is no overlap between Healthscope and 
Symbion’s community pathology services businesses in the Northern 
Territory, South Australia and Tasmania the ACCC considers it unlikely that 
the proposed acquisition will result in a substantial lessening of competition 
in any of these markets.  
New South Wales (including the Australian Capital Territory) market for 
pathology services   
112. The proposed acquisition will result in an incremental change of less than      
5 per cent accruing to the merged entity in the New South Wales market for 
pathology services. Moreover, there will continue to be other private 
pathology service providers supplying the relevant market accounting for 
approximately 26 per cent of the relevant market. 
ACCC's future steps 
113. The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers market 
responses invited by this Statement of Issues. 
114. The ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on each of the 
issues identified in this Statement of Issues, and on any other issue that may 
be relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. 
 
20


 
115. Submissions are to be received by the ACCC no later than 11 July 2007. The 
ACCC will consider the submissions received from the market and the 
merger parties in light of the issues identified above and will, in conjunction 
with information and submissions already provided by the parties, come to a 
final view as to the appropriate course of action to take to resolve any 
competition concerns that remain. 
116. The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 25 July 2007. 
However the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Merger Review 
Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose of 
explaining the ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's 
public announcement. 
 
21
