Undertaking to the
Australian Competition and
Consumer Commission
Given under section 87B by
Healthscope Limited
Aliens Arthur Robinson
530 Collins Street
Melbourne VIC 3000
Tel 61 3 9614 1011
Fax 61 3 9614 4661
www.aar.com.au
0 Copyright Mons Arthur Robinson. Australia 2007


1. 
Background
1.1 
Healthscope and Symbion each operate pathology businesses in markets for the provision
of community pathology services and a market or markets for the provision of pathology
services to public hospitals in Australia. In the Commission's view, there are state markets
for the provision of community pathology services with geographical segments within those
markets. The Commission considers it unnecessary to form a concluded view in relation to
whether there is a national market for the provision of pathology services to public hospitals
in Australia or whether there are state markets for those services.
1.2 
Healthscope proposes to acquire Symbion's pathology, medical centre and imaging
businesses in Australia (the Proposed Acquisition). Relevantly, Symbion's pathology
businesses compete with Healthscope in markets for the provision of community pathology
services.
1.3 
The Proposed Acquisition is to be implemented by way of a scheme of arrangement under
which all of the shares In Symbion will be acquired by Healthscope Investments, a wholly
owned subsidiary of Healthscope (the Scheme). The Scheme was announced by
Healthscope and Symbion to the Australian Stock Exchange on 29 May 2007.
1.4 
Immediately after implementation of the Scheme, agreements will be entered into between
Symbion and companies ultimately Jointly owned by funds managed and advised by
lronbridge Capital and Archer Capital for the sale of Symbion's consumer products group
and Symbion's pharmacy services and distribution group. The only businesses previously
operated by Symbion that will remain In the control of Healthscope are Symbion's
pathology, medical centre and imaging businesses.
1.5 
The Proposed Acquisition raises competition concerns for the Commission in markets for
the provision of community pathology services. The Commission is concerned that a
participant's ability to compete in markets for the provision of community pathology
services in regional areas may be affected by its ability to compete to provide pathology
services to public hospitals in the same regional area.
1.6 
Specifically, concerns have arisen in relation to the Victorian market for community
pathology services and in particular, regions within the Victorian market; namely north-
eastern Victoria and Gippsland. The Commission is concerned that following the Proposed
Acquisition Healthscope will be the sole or dominant provider of community pathology
services in those regions and that competitors will have little or no opportunity to compete
for the provision of pathology services to public hospitals in the relevant regions making
entry or expansion in the market for the provision of community pathology services difficult.
1.7 
The Commission conducted market Inquiries in relation to its concerns. Following those
market inquiries, the Commission was satisfied that the Proposed Acquisition would make
it unlikely that a competitor to Healthscope could either enter or expand into the relevant
market with sufficient scale to constrain Healthscope. Consequently the Commission is
Page 1


concerned that the Proposed Acquisition is likely to have the effect of substantially
lessening competition in the relevant market.
1.8 
Healthscope does not agree that the Proposed Acquisition will be likely to substantially
lessen competition, but has offered this Undertaking in order to address the Commission's
concerns. The Undertaking provides for the divestment by Healthscope of sufficient assets
to enable a purchaser of those assets to compete effectively in the relevant market
1.9 
Pursuant to this Undertaking, Healthscope has agreed to sell the Divestiture Business,
comprising the Gippsland Business, BensIla Business and Albury Business operated by
Syr9bion and the Wangaratta Business operated by Healthscope. Healthscope will use its
best endeavours to enter into an arrangement with a purchaser for the Divestiture Business
prior to the Scheme's implementation date, with the sale to occur the day after the
implementation of the Scheme to a purchaser approved of by the Commission. If this does
not occur, then Healthscope has agreed to have the Divestiture Business independently
managed until it is sold in accordance with this Undertaking. In addition, Healthscope has
agreed to sell the Divestiture Business within a confidential timeframe to a purchaser
approved of by the Commission. However, in the event that Healthscope does not sell the
Divesture Business within the specified timeframe, Healthscope undertakes to provide a
power of attorney to a Divestiture Agent to ensure the Divestiture Business is sold within a
further limited timeframe. Healthscope accepts that such a sale is to occur on terms
necessary, including as to price, to ensure a sale is effected within that further limited
period.
1.10 To address the Commission's concern in relation to the relationship between the provision
of pathology services to public hospitals and community pathology services in the same
geographic regions, Healthscope has agreed that it will tender for the provision of
pathology services to public hospitals in the relevant regions on terms approved of by the
Independent Manager of the Divestiture Business and will give the purchaser of the
Divestiture Business the option to acquire from Healthscope any contract for the provision
of pathology services to public hospitals in the relevant regions.
The Commission is satisfied that this Undertaking, the primary purpose of which is to divest
an independent, viable business in competition with the merged entity, addresses its
competition concerns.
2. 
Commencement of Undertaking
2.1 
This Undertaking comes into effect when:
(a)
it has been executed by Healthscope; and
(b)
it has been accepted by the Commission,
(Commencement Date).
Page 2


3. 
Sale of the Divestiture Business
3.1 Healthscope will, after the Control Date and in accordance with the sale processes set out
in this Undertaking, divest, or cause the divestiture of, the Divestiture Business as a viable
going concern to an Approved Purchaser within the Divestiture Period.
3.2 
Healthscope will divest the Divestiture Business on terms which include:
(a) 
the assignment or transfer to an Approved Purchaser of all assets that comprise
the Divestiture Business, including leases, equipment, intellectual property and
rights and obligations under material contracts;
(b) 
the transfer of employment to the Approved Purchaser of all employees necessary
for the operation of the Divestiture Business at the time of the sale, and the transfer
of any service contract necessary for the operation of the Divestiture Business at
the time of sale;
(c) 
the provision by Healthscope of services that the Approved Purchaser requests
subject to the services being:
(i)
provided on a transitional basis;
(ii)
provided on reasonable arm's length terms; and
(iii)
approved by the Commission;
(d) 
the transfer, subject to law, of all licences or other regulatory approvals to the
Approved Purchaser that are required for the operation of the Divestiture Business,
including a requirement for Healthscope to obtain any relevant regulatory or other
approval for such transfers;
(e) 
that Healthscope will not do anything to discourage any employees or contractors
of the Divestiture Business from taking up employment or contracting with the
Approved Purchaser, and that Healthscope will take all reasonable steps to
facilitate the transfer of those employees or contractors to the Approved Purchaser;
(f) 
that Healthscope will procure that any Independent Manager appointed pursuant to
clause 6 continues to operate the Divestiture Business in the ordinary course of
business in competition with Healthscope between the Control Date and the
Divestiture Date and will not reduce the scope of any services provided by the
Divestiture Business;
(g) 
that Healthscope will apply for third party consents to assignment or transfer of
material contracts;
(h) 
that Healthscope will do everything within its power to obtain the consent of third
parties to the transfer of assets under this Undertaking; and
(I) 
that Healthscope will cooperate with the Approved Purchaser in any application to
obtain an Approved Pathology Authority for the Divestiture Business.
3.3 
If by the Execution Date the Divestiture Business has not been divested, Healthscope will,
on the first Business Day of every month from the Execution Date until the Divestiture
Page 3


Date, provide a written report to the Commission as to the progress made in the divestiture
of the Divestiture Business.
4. 
Sale to an Approved Purchaser
4.1 Healthscope must sell the Divestiture Business to an Approved Purchaser and must not
authorise the Divestiture Agent to sell the Divestiture Business to a purchaser other than
an Approved Purchaser.
4.2 At the election of the Approved Purchaser, Healthscope will, as soon as practicable and at
no additional cost, assign or otherwise divest to the Approved Purchaser the benefit of any
contract to provide pathology services or any right to provide pathology services at or to a
hospital or public health service listed at Item 5 of Schedule 2 pursuant to a tender lodged
by Healthscope between the Control Date and the Divestiture Date.
4.3 
Where Healthscope seeks to have a purchaser of the Divestiture Business approved by the
Commission, Healthscope must without delay provide the Commission with a Proposed
Purchaser Notice in respect of any Proposed Purchaser which Notice provides the
Commission with sufficient information to form a view as to the suitability of the Proposed
Purchaser including:
(a)
the name, address, telephone number and any other available contact detail of the
Proposed Purchaser(s);
(b)
a copy of the proposed Sale and Purchase Agreement;
(c)
a description of the business carried on by the Proposed Purchaser(s) and, with
precision, the locations in which that business is carried on;
(d)
details as to the Proposed Purchaser's experience in the relevant markets; and
(e)
the names of the owners and directors of the Proposed Purchaser(s).
4.4 
The Commission may provide Healthscope with a notice (Approval Notice) that the
Proposed Purchaser is an Approved Purchaser. An Approval Notice must be in writing and
must be provided within ten Business Days after receipt of a Proposed Purchaser Notice,
or such further period as is required by the Commission and notified to Healthscope. In
making its decision to provide an Approval Notice, the Commission will have regard to
whether:
(a)
the Proposed Purchaser is independent of Healthscope and Symbion;
(b)
the Proposed Purchaser is of good financial standing and has an intention to
maintain the Divestiture Business;
(c)
the Proposed Purchaser is able to conduct the Divestiture Business having regard
to, without limitation, regulatory requirements; and
(d)
the sale of the Divestiture Business to the Proposed Purchaser will address any
competition concern held by the Commission.
4.5 
Healthscope will not challenge the Commission's refusal to issue an Approval Notice.
Page 4


5. 
Preservation of Divestiture Business
5.1 
From the Control Date, Healthscope will not, except in accordance with this Undertaking,
sell or transfer any of its interest in, or assets of, the Divestiture Business or remove or
make any material adverse change to the structure, attributes, extent or operations of the
Divestiture Business.
5.2 
Between the Control Date and the Divestiture Date, Healthscope will not submit a tender or
proposal for the provision of pathology services pursuant to a contract, arrangement or
understanding, to any of the hospitals or public health services listed in Schedule 2 without
the consent of the Independent Manager.
5.3 
Healthscope will from the Control Date until the Divestiture Date, take all steps to ensure
that:
(a)
subject to the best interests of the Divestiture Business (which is to be determined
by the Independent Manager), it is not involved in the management and operation
of the Divestiture Business;
(b)
the Independent Manager is able to manage and operate the Divestiture Business
as a separate, fully operational and competitive going concern and in such a way
that preserves the value (including goodwill) of the Divestiture Business; and
(c)
to the maximum extent practicable, the Divestiture Business is financially and
operationally separate from Healthscope.
5.4 
Without limiting the operation of clause 5.3, Healthscope will, from the Control Date until
the Divestiture Date, take all steps to ensure that:
(a)
any Approved Pathology Authority issued by the Minister for Health and Ageing
pursuant to the Health Insurance Act 1973 (Cth) in respect of the Divestiture
Business continues in force and is not suspended, withdrawn, revoked or allowed
to lapse;
(b)
any approvals granted under the Health Insurance (Eligible Collection Centres)
Approval Principles and the. Health Insurance Act 1973 (Cth) in relation to the
Approved Collection Centres that constitute part of the Divestiture Business
continue in force and are not suspended, withdrawn, revoked or allowed to lapse;
(c)
any approvals granted under the Health Insurance (Accredited Pathology
Laboratories - Approval) Principles and the Health Insurance Act 1973 (Cth) in
relation to the Accredited Pathology Laboratories that constitute part of the
Divestiture Business continue in force and are not suspended, withdrawn, revoked
or allowed to lapse;
(d)
the Accredited Pathology Laboratories that constitute part of the Divestiture
Business continue to be operated and supervised in a manner consistent with the
requirements for a laboratory of that category as set out in Part 4 of the Health
Insurance (Accredited Pathology Laboratories - Approval) Principles; and
Page 5


(e) 
all approvals granted by the National Association of Testing Authorities Australia in
relation to the Accredited Pathology Laboratories that constitute part of the
Divestiture Business continue in force and are not suspended, withdrawn, revoked
or allowed to lapse.
5.5 
Healthscope will, within five Business Days of the Control Date, notify the Commission of
any changes to the Divestiture Business that Healthscope intends to make to ensure the
separation of the Divestiture Business required by clause 5.3. Healthscope will within five
Business Days implement any additional changes notified to Healthscope by the
Commission as being necessary in order to comply with clause 5.3.
5.6 
In complying with the obligations in this clause 5 Healthscope will, from the Control Date:
(a)
continue to provide access to reasonable working capital and sources of credit for
the Divestiture Business;
(b)
provide and maintain reasonable levels of administrative, promotional, technical,
advertising and marketing support to the Divestiture Business;
(c)
ensure that the Independent Manager is able to acquire and pay for the sufficient
and timely delivery of all goods and services (induding from third parties) which the
Independent Manager considers are required by the Divestiture Business;
(d)
accept (and direct its directors, officers, employees, contractors and agents to
accept) direction from the Independent Manager as to the control, management,
financing and operations of the Divestiture Business, and for the Divestiture
Business to meet all legal, corporate, financial, accounting, taxation, audit and
regulatory obligations;
(e)
provide and pay for any external expertise, assistance or advice required by the
Independent Manager to perform their role;
(f)
ensure that the Divestiture Business has, at Healthscope's cost, access to and use
of the personnel required by the Divestiture Business to operate as a viable going
concern;
(g)
subject to specific approval by the Independent Manager, ensure that, between the
Control Date and the Divestiture Date, any Healthscope personnel (including
contractors) concerned with the management or operation of the Divestiture
Business are not concerned with the management or operation of any aspect of
Healthscope's business other than the Divestiture Business;
(h)
not procure, promote or encourage the redeployment of personnel working at the
Divestiture Business as at the Control Date to any other business operated by
Healthscope;
(I) 
take any steps directed by the Commission in relation to matters arising from the
report of any Independent Manager, within ten Business Days of being so directed;
(j) 
not, at any time from the Control Date and within one year of the Divestiture Date,
use any confidential Information gained through the ownership and/or management
of the Divestiture Business; and
Page 6


(k) 
direct its personnel including directors, managers, officers, employees and agents
to act in accordance with the prohibitions and duties in this clause 5.6.
5.7 
In respect of Healthscope's Wangaratta Business, references to the Control Date in this
clause 5 are to be read as references to the Commencement Date.
6. 
Appointment of Independent Manager
6.1 
Healthscope must appoint an Approved Independent Manager who will manage the
Divestiture Business as Independent Manager in accordance with this Undertaking and will
maintain that appointment until the Divestiture Date.
6.2 
The Independent Manager must be a person who is independent of Healthscope and
Symbion and will not be independent if, without limitation, he or she is a:
(a)
current employee or officer of Healthscope or Symbion;
(b)
person who has been an employee or officer of Healthscope or Symbion in the
past 18 months;
(c)
shareholder who, in the opinion of the Commission, holds a material number of
shares of Healthscope or Symbion;
(d)
professional adviser of Healthscope or Symbion, whether current or in the past 18
months;
(e)
person who has a contractual relationship with Healthscope or Symbion;
(f)
person who is a supplier of Healthscope or Symbion;
(g)
person who Is a material customer of Healthscope or Symbion.
6.3 
Healthscope will, within ten Business Days of the Commencement Date, advise the
Commission in wilting of the identity of the Proposed Independent Manager together with
such information that the Commission requires to assess whether the Commission is
prepared to consent to the Proposed Independent Manager.
6.4 
lf, within five Business Days of receipt by the Commission of the Information from
Healthscope referred to in clause 6.3 above or such further period as is required by the
Commission and notified to Healthscope:
(a). 
the Commission does not object to the Proposed Independent Manager, the
Proposed Independent Manager will be an Approved Independent Manager and
Healthscope will appoint the Approved Independent Manager as soon as
practicable thereafter on terms approved by the Commission and consistent with
the performance by the Independent Manager of its functions under this
Undertaking and forward to the Commission a copy of the executed terms of
appointment of the Approved Independent Manager; or
(b) 
the Commission does object to the Proposed Independent Manager, Healthscope
must appoint a person identified by the Commission at its absolute discretion as
the Approved Independent Manager on terms approved by the Commission and
Page 7


consistent with the performance by the Independent Manager of its functions under
this Undertaking.
6.5 
In the event that the Independent Manager resigns or is otherwise unable to continue as
the Independent Manager, Healthscope will, within five Business Days or such further
period as is required by the Commission and notified to Healthscope, appoint a new
Independent Manager who is either approved of in writing by the Commission, or identified
by the Commission, and whose appointment will be maintained by Healthscope until the
Divestiture Date on terms approved by the Commission and consistent with the
performance by the Independent Manager of its functions under this Undertaking.
6.6 
Healthscope will procure that:
(a)
the Independent Manager will operate the Divestiture Business in the ordinary
course of business and must not make any material change to the structure,
attributes, extent or operations of the Divestiture Business;
(b)
to the maximum extent practicable, the Independent Manager will operate the
Divestiture Business in a manner which is financially and operationally separate
from Healthscope;
the Independent Manager will keep the books and records of the Divestiture
Business separate from those of Healthscope;
the Independent Manager will implement specific measures to maintain the
confidentiality of any competitively sensitive information of the Divestiture
Business;
the Independent Manager will use their best endeavours to renew or replace upon
expiry material contracts for the provision of goods or services to the Divestiture
Business on commercial terms favourable to the Divestiture Business;
(f) 
the Independent Manager will maintain appropriate personnel levels and ensure
that the Divestiture Business has access to sufficient personnel to operate as a
viable going concern and may engage personnel (including professional advisers).
as the Independent Manager determines to be necessary;
(9) 
the Independent Manager.will not use any confidential information gained through
the ownership and/or management of the Divestiture Business other than for
performing their functions as Independent Manager;
(h) 
the Independent Manager will provide a written report each month to the
Commission in relation to the operation of the Divestiture Business and this
Undertaking over the preceding month, and the Independent Manager will carry out
the Commission's directions in relation to matters arising from the report;
(0 
the Independent Manager must review and report to the Commission regarding
any changes made to the Divestiture Business by Healthscope to ensure
separation of the Divestiture Business required by clause 5.3, and make any
recommendations to the Commission that the Independent Manager considers
appropriate;
Page 8


(i) the Independent Manager will only give their consent pursuant to clause 5.2 if the
Independent Manager forms the view that the terms of the tender or proposal in
relation to which consent is being sought is on terms that would be favourable to
any Approved Purchaser of the Divestiture Business;
(k) 
the Independent Manager will provide information requested by the Commission
directly to the Commission; and
(I) 
the Independent Manager may report or otherwise inform the Commission directly
of any Issues that arise in the performance of their functions as Independent
Manager or in relation to any matter that may arise in connection with this
Undertaking.
6.7 
Healthscope will indemnify the Independent Manager for any expenses, loss, claim or
damage arising from the performance by the Independent Manager of functions required to
be performed by the Independent Manager by this Undertaking.
6.8 
The Commission may approve any proposal by, and alternatively may direct, Healthscope
to terminate the Independent Manager if the Independent Manager acts inconsistently with
the provisions of this Undertaking or the terms of their engagement. On termination,
Healthscope will, within five Business Days of the Commission nominating an alternative
Independent Manager, appoint the Independent Manager on terms approved by the
Commission and consistent with the performance by the Independent Manager of its
functions under this Undertaking.
6.9 
Healthscope will provide to the Independent Manager any information requested by the
Independent Manager that the Independent Manager considers necessary for the running
of the Divestiture Business or for reporting to or otherwise advising the Commission.
6.10 
Healthscope will not request any information relating to the Divestiture Business from the
Independent Manager without such a request having been made through the Commission.
7. 
Failure to divest within the Divestiture Period
7.1 
If the sale of the Divestiture Business to an Approved Purchaser is not completed by the
end of the Divestiture Period, the Divestiture Business is an Unsold Business and the
provisions of this clause 7 apply.
7.2 
Within five Business Days of the Divestiture Business becoming an Unsold Business,
Healthscope will notify the Commission in writing of the identity of a Proposed Divestiture
Agent who is independent of Healthscope and has appropriate experience and/or
qualifications to act as a Divestiture Agent, together with such information as the
Commission requires regarding the appointment of the Proposed Divestiture Agent,
including the proposed terms of appointment.
7.3 
The terms upon which the Divestiture Agent is appointed must be approved by the
Commission and must include terms to the effect that the Divestiture Agent:
Page 9


(a) 
is empowered and required by Healthscope to effect the divestiture of the Unsold
Business to an Approved Purchaser within three months of the Appointment Date
(or such further period as determined by the Commission at its absolute discretion)
at the best price that is attainable within that period subject to an overriding and
unconditional obligation to sell the Unsold Business at no minimum price by the
end of this period;
(b) 
may charge such fees as are agreed between the Divestiture Agent and
Healthscope (but not contingent on the price to be obtained for the Unsold
Business), to be paid by Healthscope. If agreement cannot be reached between
the Divestiture Agent and Healthscope within five Business Days from the date of
the Commission's notice that it does not object to the Proposed Divestiture Agent,
Healthscope will pay such fees as are reasonably directed by the Commission;
(c) 
is the only person who may effect the divestiture of the Unsold Business after the
Appointment Date;
(d) 
may at Healthscope's expense retain any lawyer, agent or other adviser required to
effect the divestiture of the Unsold Business;
(e) 
will account to Healthscope for:
(i)
any moneys derived from the divestiture of the Unsold Business;
(ii)
all disbursements, fees and charges incurred by the Divestiture Agent in
undertaking his/her duties; and
(iii)
all fees of the Divestiture Agent (including the fees of any advisor
appointed under clause 7.3(d));
(f) 
will provide a written report on the first Business Day of each month until the
Divestiture Date to the Commission and Healthscope, or answer any reasonable
enquiries of either the Commission or Healthscope, concerning:
(i)
the efforts made to effect the divestiture of the Unsold Business;
(ii)
the identity of any advisers engaged;
(iii)
any costs incurred;
(iv)
the identity of any persons expressing interest in the Unsold Business; or
(v)
any other information reasonably required by the Commission or
Healthscope; and
(g) 
will use best endeavours to ensure that Healthscope complies with its obligations
as set out in this Undertaking and notify the Commission if it becomes aware of
any material failure by Healthscope to do so.
7.4 
If within ten Business Days of receipt by the Commission of the information referred to in
clause 7.2 (or such further period as is required by the Commission and notified to
Healthscope in writing prior to the expiration of the ten Business Day period) the
Commission objects to the Proposed Divestiture Agent, then Healthscope will appoint an
alternative Divestiture Agent nominated by the Commission within ten Business Days of
such nomination.
Page 10


7.5 
If the Commission does not object to the Proposed Divestiture Agent within ten Business
Days of receipt by the Commission of the information referred to in clause 7.2 (or such
further period as is required by the Commission and notified to Healthscope in writing prior
to the expiration of the ten Business Day period), then Healthscope will, within five
Business Days of that date, appoint the Proposed Divestiture Agent as Divestiture Agent.
7.6 
Healthscope will grant the Divestiture Agent an irrevocable power of attorney conferring all
necessary power and authority to effect the divestiture of the Unsold Business on terms
which are considered by the Divestiture Agent to be consistent with this Undertaking.
7.7 
Healthscope must not authorise the Divestiture Agent to sell the Unsold Business to a
purchaser other than an Approved Purchaser.
7.8 
Healthscope must not contract to sell the Unsold Business on terms which would be
inconsistent with the Divestiture Agent's role, the granting of authority to the Divestiture
Agent under clause 7.6, or any other obligation in this Undertaking.
7.9 
Healthscope will provide a copy of the executed terms of appointment for the Divestiture
Agent to the Commission within five Business Days of their execution.
7.10 
Healthscope must provide the Divestiture Agent with all relevant information available to
Healthscope and reasonably assist the Divestiture Agent to effect the divestiture of the
Unsold Business as quickly as possible.
7.11 The Commission may request information from the Divestiture Agent directly at any time.
Healthscope undertakes to require the Divestiture Agent to report and respond'to the
Commission directly in response to any such request, or as otherwise required by the
Commission.
7.12 The Commission must approve any proposal by, and alternatively may direct, Healthscope
to terminate the appointment of the Divestiture Agent if the Divestiture Agent acts
inconsistently with the provisions of this Undertaking. On termination of the Divestiture
Agent, Healthscope must appoint an alternative Divestiture Agent nominated by the
Commission within ten Business Days of such nomination.
8. 
Release of personnel
8.1 
Where:
(a)
the Divestiture Business or Unsold Business is divested as contemplated by this
Undertaking; and
(b)
the terms of the divestment contemplate that, immediately following the completion
of the sale, Healthscope personnel including staff or persons under a service
agreement will be employed by, or otherwise provide services to, the Divestiture
Business or Unsold Business,
Healthscope must release the relevant personnel, with effect from the Divestiture Date,
from:
Page 11


(c)
any obligation to provide services to Healthscope; and
(d)
any non-compete or similar restraint of trade obligation, to the extent that such
obligation would otherwise prevent the staff member or person from performing his
or her contemplated role in relation to the Divestiture Business or Unsold Business.
8.2 
Healthscope will not directly or indirectly discourage personnel including staff of, or persons
under service agreements with, the Divestiture Business or Unsold Business from
continuing in or seeking employment with, or providing services to, the Approved
Purchaser of the Divestiture Business or Unsold Business.
9. 
Provision of information to the Commission
9.1 
Healthscope Will advise the Commission in writing of the date of the Control Date within
one Business Day of the Control. Date.
9.2 
Healthscope will provide the Commission with copies of any executed Sale and Purchase
Agreement within five Business Days of it being entered into.
9.3 
At the Commission's direction, Healthscope will, and will procure that its directors,
employees, agents or contractors identified by the Commission will:
(a)
furnish information to the Commission;
(b)
produce documents to the Commission within Healthscope's custody, control or
power; and/or
(c)
attend the Commission at a time and place appointed by the Commission to
answer any questions the Commission, its Commissioner, staff or agents may
have;
as directed by the Commission in relation to this Undertaking.
9.4 
Nothing in 9.3 requires the provision of information in respect of which Healthscope has a
claim of legal professional privilege.
10. Obligation to procure
10.1 Where performance of an obligation under this undertaking requires a Related Body
Corporate of Healthscope to take or refrain from taking some action, Healthscope will use
its best endeavours to procure that Related Body Corporate to take or refrain from taking
that action as the case may be.
11. Confidentiality and disclosure
Subject to clause 11.2, Healthscope acknowledges that the Commission will make this
Undertaking available for public inspection and that the Commission will from time to time
publicly refer to this Undertaking.
Page 12


11.2 Healthscope and the Commission agree that Confidential Schedule 1 to this Undertaking
will remain confidential until the Divestiture Date.
11.3 Nothing in clause 11.2 prevents the Commission from disclosing such information as:
(a)
is required by law;
(b)
is reasonably necessary for the purpose of enforcement action under section 87B
of the Act; or
(c)
is necessary for the purpose of making such market inquiries as the Commission
thinks fit to assess the impact on competition arising in connection with the
divestment of the Divestiture Business or the Unsold Business.
12.
Costs
All costs incurred by Healthscope in providing information to the Commission, in
responding to Commission inquiries as required by this Undertaking and in complying with
this Undertaking are to be paid by Healthscope.
13.
Notices
13.1 Any notice, demand, consent or other communication given or made under this
Undertaking to the Commission should be sent to:
Australian Competition & Consumer Commission
Attention: General Manager, Mergers and Asset Sales
Address: 23 Marcus Clarke Street, Canberra ACT 2601
Fax No: (02) 6243 1212
or to any other address which the Commission subsequently notifies to Healthscope.
11.2 Any notice, demand, consent or other communication given or made under this
Undertaking to Healthscope should be sent to the address or fax number below or the
address or fax number last notified by the intended recipient to the sender:
Healthscope Limited
Attention: Chief Financial Officer
Address: Level 1, 407 Royal Parade, Parkville VIC 3052
Fax No: (03) 9356 7599
or to any other address which Healthscope subsequently notifies to the Commission.
14.
Definitions and Interpretation
Definitions
14.1 The meanings of the terms used in this document are as follows:
Act 
means the Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth).
Page 13


Accredited Pathology
Laboratory
Albury Business
Appointment Date
Approval Notice
Approved Collection
Centre
Approved independent
Manager
Approved Purchaser
Approved Pathology
Authority
Benalla Business
Business Day
Commencement Date
Commission
Control Date
Divestiture Agent
Divestiture Business
Divestiture Date
Divestiture Period
Execution Date
Gippsland Business
means a laboratory that has been accredited as an Accredited
Pathology Laboratory by the Minister for Health and Ageing pursuant
to the Health Insurance Act 1973 and the Health Insurance
(Accredited Pathology Laboratories — Approval) Principles as
amended from time to time.
means Symbion's pathology business conducted at Albury, New
South Wales, as set out in item 4 of Schedule 2.
means the date on which a Divestiture Agent is appointed under
clause 7.
means a notice given by the Commission pursuant to clause 4.4.
means an eligible collection centre approved by the Minister for
Health and Ageing pursuant to the Health Insurance Act 1973 and
the Health Insurance (Eligible Collection Centres) Approval Principles
as amended from time to time.
means a person approved pursuant to clause 6 by the Commission to
act as Independent Manager.
means a Proposed Purchaser in relation to which the Commission
issues an Approval Notice pursuant to clause 4.4.
means a person approved by the Minister for Health and Ageing as
an Approved Pathology Authority pursuant to the Health Insurance
Act 1973.
means Symbion's pathology business conducted at Benalla, Victoria,
as set out in item 2 of Schedule 2.
means a day on which all banks are open generally in Melbourne, but
does not include a Saturday, Sunday or public holiday.
means the date determined in accordance with clause 2.1.
means the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission.
means the date on which the Scheme is implemented or Healthscope
otherwise gains control of Symbion.
means a person appointed under clause 7 to effect the divestiture of
the Unsold Business.
means the businesses identified in Schedule 2.
means the date on which Healthscope no longer has ownership or
control of the Divestiture Business.
means the period described in Confidential Schedule 1 to this
Undertaking.
means the date one Business Day after the Control Date.
means Symbion's pathology business conducted at Gippsland,
Page 14


Healthscope
Victoria, as set out in item 1 of Schedule 2.
means Healthscope Limited (ACN 004 405 152). Unless the context
otherwise indicates, a reference in this Undertaking to Healthscope
includes a reference to any of its related bodies corporate.
means Healthscope Investments Pty Ltd (ACN 125 694 251).
means the Approved Independent Manager appointed by
Healthscope in accordance with clause 6 to be the Independent
Manager of the Divestiture Business.
means the proposed acquisition of Symbion by Healthscope pursuant
to the Scheme.
means a person proposed by Healthscope to be the Divestiture
Agent.
means a person proposed by Healthscope to the Commission
pursuant to clause 6 to act as the Independent Manager.
means a proposed purchaser of the Divestiture Business in respect
of whom Healthscope has provided the Commission with a Proposed
Purchaser Notice.
means the notice referred to in clause 4.3.
has the meaning given to that phrase by section 4A of the Act.
means an agreement or agreements in respect of the sale and
purchase of the Divestiture Business.
has the meaning given to it in clause 1.3.
means Symbion Health Limited (ACN 004 073 410). Unless the
context otherwise indicates, a reference in this Undertaking to
Symbion includes a reference to any of its related bodies corporate.
has the meaning given to that phrase in clause 7.1.
is a reference to all of the provisions of this document, including its
Schedules.
means Healthscope's pathology business conducted at Wangaratta,
Victoria, as set out in item 3 of Schedule 2.
Healthscope
Investments
Independent Manager
Proposed Acquisition
Proposed Divestiture
Agent
Proposed independent
Manager
Proposed Purchaser
Proposed Purchaser
Notice
Related body
corporate
Sale and Purchase
Agreement
Scheme
Symbion
Unsold Business
Undertaking
Wangaratta Business
Interpretation
14.2 
The following rules of interpretation apply:
(a) 
the singular includes the plural, and vice versa;
(.b) 
a gender includes all genders;
Page 15


(c)
referring to anything after the words include, includes or including does not limit
what else might be included;
(d)
a reference to "this Undertaking" is a reference to all the provisions of this
document;
(e)
a reference to dollars and $ is to Australian currency; and
(f)
all references to time are to time in Melbourne, Australia.
14.3 In the interpretation of a clause of this Undertaking, a construction that would promote the
purpose or object underlying this Undertaking (whether that purpose or object is expressly
stated in this Undertaking or not) shall be preferred to a construction that would not
promote the purpose or object.
14.4 In the interpretation of this Undertaking, material not forming part of this Undertaking may
be considered if that material is capable of assisting in the ascertainment of the meaning or
context of a clause of this Undertaking in order to:
(a)
confirm that the meaning of a clause is the ordinary meaning conveyed by the text
of the clause taking into account its context in this Undertaking and the competition
concerns intended to be addressed by this Undertaking and the clause in question;
or
(b)
determine the meaning of a clause when the ordinary meaning conveyed by the
text of the clause taking into account its context in this Undertakings and the
purpose or object underlying this Undertaking leads to a result that does not
promote the purpose or object underlying this Undertaking.
14.5 In determining whether consideration should be given to any material in accordance with
clause 13.4, or in considering any weight to be given to any such material, regard shall be
had, in addition to any other relevant matters, to:
(a)
the effect that reliance on the ordinary meaning conveyed by the text of the clause
would have (taking into account its context In this Undertaking and whether that
meaning promotes the purpose or object of this Undertaking); and
(b)
the need to ensure that the result of this Undertaking is to address the
Commission's competition concerns.
14.6 The Commission may authorise the Mergers Review Committee, a member of the
Commission or a member of the Commission staff, to exercise a decision making function
under this Undertaking on its behalf and that authorisation may be subject to any
conditions which the Commission may impose.
14.7 This Undertaking does not prevent the Commission from taking enforcement action at any
time during or after the period of this Undertaking in respect of any breach by Healthscope
of any term of this Undertaking.
14.8 Nothing in this Undertaking restricts the right of the Commission to take action under the
Act for penalties, divestiture or any other remedy/s in the event that divestiture of the
Divestiture Business is not implemented in accordance with this Undertaking.
Page 16


bate
Executed by Heelthecope Limited ACN 006
405 152 In accordance with section 127 of the
Corporation:: Act by or in the Presence of:
Signature • SecreteryarettoF
n
/N6R-1, 
Signature of Director
tL
Name of Socretary/Diseeter in full 
Name of Director in lull
Accepted by ale Australian competition and Consumer Commission pursuant to Section 6713
of the Trade Practices Act 1974,
Grams Julian Samuel
Chairman
Peva 17


Confidential Schedule 1 - Divestiture Period
Page 18


Schedule 2 — Divestiture Business
The Divestiture Business comprises:
1.
The Gippsland pathology business conducted by Symbion from its Accredited Pathology
Laboratories at the following locations:
Sale 
Macalistair Street
Warragul 
Landsborough Street
Leongatha 
Koonwarra Road
Bairnsdale 
Day Street
Wonthaggi 
Graham Street
Traralgon 
Princes Highway.
and including 27 Approved Collection Centres at the following locations:
Bairnsdale 
Day Street
Lakes Entrance 
649 Esplanade
Orbost 
Boundary Road
Paynesville 
6 Fleischer Street
Leongatha 
Koonwarra Road
Leongatha 
32 Jeffrey Street
Mirboo North 
4-6 Brennan Street
Maffra 
168 Johnson Street
Sale 
Palmerston Street
Sale 
284 Raymond Street
Churchill 
13 Georgina Place
Moe 
16 Kirk Street
Morwell 
241 Princes Drive
Neerim South 
Main Road
Pakenham 
56 Main Street
Traralgon 
Princes Highway
Traralgon 
6 Kay Street
Yarram 
121 Commercial Road
Drouin 
22-26 Princes Way
Warragul 
40 Albert Street
Cowes 
12 Wardley Avenue
Foster 
95 Station Street
Inverloch 
11 Williams Street
Kooweerup 
Rossiter Road
Korumburra 
50 Radovick Street
San Remo 
123 Marine Parade
Wonthaggi 
Graham Street
2.
The Benalla pathology business conducted by Symbion from its Accredited Pathology
Laboratory at Coster Street, Benalla, including the Approved Collection Centres at the
following locations:
Page 19


Benalla 
Coster Street
Mansfield 
49 Highett Street
Mooroopna 
69 McLennan Street
3.
The Wangaratta pathology business conducted by Healthscope from its Accredited
Pathology Laboratory at Part Clark Street, Wangaratta, including the Approved Collection
Centres at the following locations:
Wangaratta 
61 Ovens Street
Yarrawonga 
25 Piper Street
4.
The Albury pathology business conducted by Symbion from its Accredited Pathology
Laboratory at 1/2 Ramsay Place, Albury, including the Approved Collection Centres at the
following locations:
Albury 
1/2 Ramsay Place
Albury 
552 Englehardt Street
Beechworth 
39 Camp Street
Corryong 
Kiell Street
Corowa 
30 Evelyn Street
Lavington 
31334-336 Griffith Road
Mount Beauty 
Tawonga Crescent
Wodonga 
101 Hume Street
Wodonga 
Nordsvan Drive
5.
At the discretion of the Approved Purchaser, any contract, or right to enter a contract, for
the provision of pathology services at any of the following hospitals or to any of the
following public health services secured between the Control Date and the Divestiture
Date:
Benalla and District Memorial Hospital
Heyfield Bush Nursing Hospital
Latrobe Regional Hospital
Maffra District Hospital
Mansfield District Hospital and North Eastern Pathology
Maryvale Private Hospital
South Gippsland Hospital
Wangaratta District Base Hospital
Wonthaggi and District Hospital
Baimsdale Regional Health Service
Page 20


Gippsland Southern, Central Gippsland and West Gippsland Health Services
Omeo District Health Service
Orbost Regional Health Service
Yarram and District Health Service
Wodonga Regional Health Service
Alpine Health Service
Page 21
