 
Page 1 of 35 
 
Statement of Issues 
23 October 2015 
Halliburton Company – proposed acquisition of Baker 
Hughes Incorporated 
Purpose 
1. 
The purpose of this Statement of Issues is to: 
 
give the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission’s (ACCC’s) 
preliminary views on competition issues arising from Halliburton 
Company’s (Halliburton’s) proposed acquisition of Baker Hughes 
Incorporated (Baker Hughes) 
 
identify areas of further inquiry 
 
give all interested parties an opportunity to comment 
 
invite interested parties to submit information to assist us in our 
assessment of the issues. 
Overview of the ACCC’s preliminary views 
Introduction 
2. 
This Statement of Issues outlines competition concerns arising from the 
proposed acquisition in multiple markets.  
3. 
Halliburton and Baker Hughes offer goods and services across a broad range of 
oilfield products, in many countries around the world. Oilfield services comprise 
products which are acquired to facilitate the exploration for and production of oil 
and gas. The merger parties are close competitors across a large number goods 
and services in Australia. 
4. 
Based on total annual revenues, Schlumberger Limited (Schlumberger) is the 
largest global and Australian oilfield services provider. The merger parties—
Halliburton and Baker Hughes—are currently the second and third largest 
providers both globally and in Australia. Market participants often use the term 
‘the big three’ to describe Schlumberger, Halliburton and Baker Hughes.  
5. 
In Australia, oilfield services are provided both onshore and offshore to 
Exploration and Production customers (E&Ps), and across a number of different 
basins with differing geological characteristics. Consequently, the ACCC is 
considering a number of different markets and a number of concerns across the 
range of goods and services supplied in Australia.  


Halliburton Company – proposed acquisition of Baker Hughes Incorporated 
 
Page 2 of 35 
6. 
An important feature of oilfield services markets in Australia is the competitive 
advantages that the major global suppliers have relative to smaller competitors 
and potential entrants.  
7. 
These advantages include economies of scope and scale; significant industry 
experience, particularly on complex projects, which has led to strong customer 
relationships and established reputations; and large research and development 
(R&D) and innovation expenditures keeping them at the forefront of 
technological developments.  
8. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that there are strong risks of unilateral and 
coordinated effects arising from the proposed acquisition. The advantages the 
merged firm and Schlumberger would have suggest that post-acquisition they 
are not likely to face strong competitive constraints from rivals or entrants in a 
number of markets.  
Preliminary views 
9. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is 
in section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits 
acquisitions that substantially lessen competition in a market, or are likely to do 
so.  
10. 
The ACCC divides its preliminary views into two categories, 'issues of concern’, 
and 'issues that may raise concerns.'  
11. 
The geographic scope of all markets referred to below is Australia.  
Issues of concern 
 
The ACCC has identified issues of concern through unilateral effects in the 
supply of oilfield services to offshore drilling projects, in separate product 
markets as identified in Annexure 1.  
 
The ACCC has identified issues of concern through unilateral effects in a market 
for the provision of integrated oilfield services for all drilling projects in Australia.  
 
The ACCC has identified issues of concern in the supply of oilfield services for 
all drilling projects in Australia through coordinated effects.  
Issues that may raise concerns 
 
The ACCC has identified issues that may raise concerns through unilateral 
effects in the supply of oilfield services to onshore drilling projects, in separate 
product markets as identified in Annexure 2. 
Making a submission 
12. 
The ACCC is seeking submissions from interested parties, particularly on the 
following key issues: 
 
The likelihood the proposed acquisition will lead to higher prices or 
reduced service in any market in Australia as a result of unilateral or 
coordinated effects. 


Halliburton Company – proposed acquisition of Baker Hughes Incorporated 
 
Page 3 of 35 
 
The capacity and capability of existing suppliers or new entrants to supply 
the range of products necessary to compete effectively for the supply of 
integrated services.   
 
The presence of market conditions which may or may not facilitate 
coordinated conduct to the detriment of customers.  
 
The availability of effective alternative suppliers either in Australia or 
overseas, for each product which the merger parties supply.  
13. 
Detailed discussion of these and other issues, along with specific questions, is 
contained in this Statement of Issues.  
14. 
Interested parties should provide submissions by no later than 5pm on 
12 November 2015. Responses may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with 
the title: Submission re: Halliburton’s proposed acquisition of Baker Hughes - 
attention Kate Reader and George Cunningham. If you would like to discuss the 
matter with ACCC officers over the telephone or in person, or have any 
questions about this Statement of Issues, please contact Kate Reader on (02) 
9230 3822 or George Cunningham on (02) 9230 9138.  
15. 
The ACCC anticipates making a final decision on 17 December 2015, however, 
this timeline can change. To keep abreast of possible changes in relation to 
timing and to find relevant documents, interested parties should visit the Mergers 
Register on the ACCC's website at www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
Confidentiality of submissions 
16. 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We 
will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) 
unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation 
or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition 
and Consumer Act 2010.  Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where possible so that you may 
have an opportunity to be heard.  Therefore, if the information provided to the 
ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines contain more information. 
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’ 
17. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well 
as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
18. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 


Halliburton Company – proposed acquisition of Baker Hughes Incorporated 
 
Page 4 of 35 
Timeline 
Date 
Event 
21 April 2015 
ACCC commenced review of the proposed 
acquisition 
23 October 
ACCC publication of statement of issues 
12 November 
Deadline for submissions from interested parties in 
response to this Statement of Issues 
17 December 
Anticipated date for ACCC final decision 
The parties 
Halliburton 
19. 
Listed on the New York Stock Exchange (HAL) and based in Houston, Texas, 
Halliburton is one of the world's largest providers of goods and services to the 
energy industry, operating in over 80 countries. It serves the upstream oil and 
gas industry throughout the lifecycle of a reservoir. 
20. 
Halliburton has been operating in Australia for over 50 years. It has facilities in 
every Australian state (except Tasmania) and the Northern Territory through 16 
bases and offices which support onshore and offshore projects. These facilities 
are used to provide distribution, servicing, staging, testing and repair services.  
21. 
Halliburton’s calendar-year 2014 revenues from Australian operations were in 
excess of US$400 million.1 Halliburton’s total calendar-year 2014 revenues from 
its global operations were in excess of US$32 billion.2  
Baker Hughes 
22. 
Also listed on the NYSE (BHI) and based in Houston, Texas, Baker Hughes is a 
large global supplier of oilfield services, products, technology and systems to the 
oil and natural gas industry, operating in over 80 countries. It helps customers 
find, evaluate, drill, produce, transport and process hydrocarbon resources.  
23. 
Baker Hughes has been operating in Australia for almost 50 years. It has a 
presence in every Australian state except New South Wales and Tasmania and 
has a presence in the Northern Territory. For example, it owns drilling and 
evaluation centres in Western Australia and South Australia, operates a fleet of 
remote maintenance units to support remote locations, and operates chemical 
blending facilities in Victoria. 
24. 
Baker Hughes’ calendar-year 2014 revenues from Australian operations were in 
excess of US$300 million.3 Baker Hughes’s total calendar-year 2014 revenues 
from its global operations were in excess of US$24 billion.4 
                                                 
 
1 http://clients1.ibisworld.com.au/reports/au/enterprisepremium/financials.aspx?entid=12860. 
2 Halliburton, 2014 Annual Report, p. 1. 


Halliburton Company – proposed acquisition of Baker Hughes Incorporated 
 
Page 5 of 35 
The proposed transaction 
25. 
On 16 November 2014, Halliburton agreed to acquire all of the shares in Baker 
Hughes, with completion then expected to occur in the second half of 2015. The 
global merger is valued at approximately US$34.6 billion and is conditional on 
the parties obtaining regulatory approvals.  
26. 
Halliburton will pay a fee of US$3.5 billion if the transaction terminates due to a 
failure to obtain required antitrust approvals. The press release of November 
2014 noted that Halliburton agreed to divest businesses that generate up to 
US$7.5 billion in revenues, if required by regulators.5  
27. 
On 7 April 2015, Halliburton announced that it proposed to sell the following 
businesses:6 
 
Fixed Cutter and Roller Cone Drill Bits 
 
Directional Drilling, and  
 
Logging-While-Drilling (LWD) / Measurement-While-Drilling (MWD). 
28. 
Subsequently on 28 September 2015, Halliburton and Baker Hughes announced 
they proposed to also separately sell further businesses:7 
 
Halliburton’s expandable liner hangers business, which is part of the 
company’s Completion and Production Division 
 
Baker Hughes’ core completions business, which includes: packers, flow 
control tools, subsurface safety systems, intelligent well systems, permanent 
monitoring, sand control tools and sand control screens 
 
Baker Hughes sand control business in the Gulf of Mexico, including two 
pressure pumping vessels 
 
Baker Hughes offshore cementing businesses in Australia, Brazil, the Gulf of 
Mexico, Norway and the United Kingdom.  
29. 
The ACCC has not had any engagement with the merger parties about whether 
divestitures are necessary or whether the divestitures proposed would remedy 
any competition concerns, whether pursuant to a court enforceable undertaking 
or otherwise. The ACCC further understands, as stated in the merger parties’ 28 
September 2015 announcement, that there is no agreement with any other 
competition authority as to the adequacy of the proposed divestitures. 
                                                                                                                                              
 
3 http://clients1.ibisworld.com.au/reports/au/enterprisefull/financials.aspx?entid=218 
4 Baker Hughes, 2014 Annual Report, p. 2. 
5 See, Halliburton.  
http://www.halliburton.com/public/news/pubsdata/press_release/2014/HAL-BHI-Joint-Announcement-Press-
Release.pdf  
6 See, Halliburton.  
http://www.halliburton.com/public/news/pubsdata/press_release/2015/halliburton-to-separately-market-for-sale-its-drill-
bits.html  
7 See, Halliburton.  
http://www.halliburton.com/public/news/pubsdata/press_release/2015/Halliburton-BakerHughes-announce-additional-
divestiture.html  


Halliburton Company – proposed acquisition of Baker Hughes Incorporated 
 
Page 6 of 35 
Review by other competition agencies 
30. 
The proposed acquisition is currently being considered by competition authorities 
in a number of jurisdictions, including in the US, the European Union, India and 
China.  
Other relevant companies 
Oilfield services providers  
31. 
The oilfield services industry is a global one with a large range of suppliers from 
large global companies (in revenue and product terms), such as the merger 
parties, to more specialised competitors. This section discusses briefly a few 
relevant competitors to the merger parties in Australia.  
Schlumberger 
32. 
Schlumberger is the largest supplier globally of goods and services to the 
international oil and gas exploration and production industry. The company has 
over 80 years’ experience in the industry and employs approximately 108,000 
people in more than 85 countries.8  
33. 
Schlumberger supplies a wide range of goods and services in competition with 
the merger parties both globally and in Australia. The company’s Australian 
operations are headquartered in Perth.  
34. 
In 2014, Schlumberger’s global revenue was over US$48 billion.9  
Weatherford International Ltd (Weatherford) 
35. 
Weatherford is a global provider of equipment and services used in the drilling, 
evaluation, completion, production and intervention of oil and gas wells. Based in 
Houston, Texas, Weatherford employs over 55,000 people across 100 
countries.10 In Australia, Weatherford has facilities in Perth and Brisbane.  
36. 
Weatherford had global revenues in 2014 of over US$14 billion.11   
Other 
37. 
Other large global oilfield services providers operating in Australia include the 
following.  
 
National Oilwell Varco (NOV) is a Houston, Texas based company operating 
in three product segments: rig systems, wellbore technologies and 
completion and production solutions.12 NOV had global revenues of US$21 
billion in 2014.13 
                                                 
 
8 Schlumberger, 2014 Annual Report, p. 1. 
9 Schlumberger, 2014 Annual Report, p. 2.  
10 Weatherford, 2014 Annual Report, pp. 30–31. 
11 Weatherford, 2014 Annual Report, p. 15.  
12 National Oilwell Varco, 2014 Annual Report, pp. 1–2. 
13 National Oilwell Varco, 2014 Annual Report, p. 2. 


Halliburton Company – proposed acquisition of Baker Hughes Incorporated 
 
Page 7 of 35 
 
GE Oil & Gas forms part of the General Electric Company, an American 
multinational conglomerate based in Fairfield, Connecticut. GE Oil and Gas 
operates across exploration and production and extends to downstream 
activities. In 2014, GE Oil and Gas had global revenues of over US$18 
billion and approximately 45,000 employees worldwide.14 
 
Superior Energy Services (Superior) is a specialised oilfield services and 
equipment company.. Superior had global revenues of over US$4.5 billion in 
2014 and has over 14,000 employees worldwide.15  
 
Trican Well Services (Trican) is a global oilfield services company with a 
focus on pressure pumping services but also offering other services 
including completion tools. Trican earned global revenues of C$2.7 billion in 
2014.16       
Customers 
38. 
The merger parties typically provide their goods and services to oil and gas 
E&Ps. As with oilfield services providers, oil and gas E&Ps range in size from 
large multi-nationals to more specialised companies.  
39. 
Large multi-national E&Ps operating in Australia include Royal Dutch Shell, 
ConocoPhillips, Sinopec, PetroChina, ExxonMobil, Chevron, BP and BG Group. 
Large Australian-based E&Ps include Woodside, Quadrant Energy, Santos, 
Origin and BHP. There are also local E&Ps operating around Australia, such as 
Beach Energy and Senex.    
Industry background 
Oil and gas industries in Australia 
40. 
There are oil and gas drilling projects across large parts of Australia and in 
diverse locations including offshore Western Australia, and onshore in the 
Cooper Basin in central Australia. Gas resources are more significant than oil 
resources in Australia.  
41. 
Offshore oil and gas wells can be drilled in a variety of environments, from deep 
water to shelf. Onshore wells can similarly be drilled in a range of environments; 
for example shallow coal seam gas (CSG) wells, deeper tight gas, or 
conventional oil and gas wells. 
42. 
The gas industry in Australia has seen significant expansion over the past 10–15 
years. In that period, new liquefied natural gas (LNG) plants have been 
constructed, or are being constructed, on both the east and west coasts. In 
Queensland, one LNG project recently began full production while another two 
are nearing completion. On the west coast, the North West Shelf, Darwin and 
Pluto LNG facilities have been producing for some time while another four 
facilities (Gorgon, Prelude, Wheatstone and Ichthys) are under construction. 
                                                 
 
14 General Electric, 2014 FORM 10-K, p. 31. 
15 Superior Energy Services, 2014 Annual Report, pp. 4, 6.  
16 Trican Well Services, 2014 Annual Report, p. 2.  


Halliburton Company – proposed acquisition of Baker Hughes Incorporated 
 
Page 8 of 35 
43. 
However, over the past 12 months, the prices of oil and gas have declined 
significantly. The ACCC understands that E&Ps in Australia have significantly 
reduced their drilling activity as a consequence.   
Oilfield services 
44. 
Oilfield services companies provide services to the oil and gas industries but do 
not typically produce oil or gas themselves.  
45. 
E&Ps acquire oilfield services to allow them to explore new areas for future 
production and bring wells to production.    
46. 
The goods and services offered by both Halliburton and Baker Hughes are 
structured around the two key phases in the lifecycle of a well: 
 
Drilling and Evaluation (D&E), and 
 
Completion and Production (C&P).  
47. 
The goods and services supplied for use in the D&E phase may include drilling 
rigs, drill bits and drilling fluids as well as tools and services which enable the 
modelling, measurement and optimisation of well construction activities.  
48. 
The goods and services supplied in the C&P phase may include cementing and 
completion equipment and services, maintenance services, artificial lift and 
coiled tubing services. Consumables, parts and valves are also typically required 
as part of the production phase.  
Customer tendering and contracting practices 
49. 
E&Ps often acquire oilfield services through competitive tendering. The ACCC 
understands customers typically engage in a multi-step process as follows:  
 
A list of candidate suppliers is developed and provided with an invitation to 
tender. 
 
A two-stage assessment follows: 
o Technical assessment—where suppliers are assessed for their ability to 
deliver the good or service to the technical specifications of the 
customer.  
o Commercial assessment—where technically compliant tenders are 
assessed and compared for risk, price, quality, service etc. 
 
A shortlist of tenderers is developed and a competitive process is carried out 
before the supplier is selected and terms and conditions are negotiated.    
50. 
The ACCC understands contracts are typically for two to three years duration, 
although they may be longer. The contracting of services varies depending on 
the project characteristics. For example, an offshore drilling project may have 
less than 10 wells planned but each might be highly complex. The ACCC 
understands the general practice is for customers to retain a selected supplier 
for the life of the project.  


Halliburton Company – proposed acquisition of Baker Hughes Incorporated 
 
Page 9 of 35 
51. 
On the other hand, an onshore CSG project might involve hundreds of shallow, 
non-complex wells. Onshore drilling E&Ps regularly utilise ‘call out’ suppliers at 
short notice. Onshore customers typically have a primary service provider for the 
bulk of the goods and services. A secondary supplier may be called upon when 
a good or service is required and the primary provider is unable to provide it. 
52. 
The ACCC would welcome further information about the coverage (e.g. price 
terms) and flexibility of contracts, including the ability to switch suppliers, during 
the life of both offshore and onshore projects.   
53. 
Customers may also elect to award contracts directly to suppliers without a 
tender process. This may be necessary where there are short project timeframes 
or a specific technology is required.   
Future with and without the acquisition  
54. 
The ACCC considers the effects of a proposed acquisition by comparing the 
likely future competitive environment post-acquisition (the ‘with’ position), to the 
likely competitive environment if the acquisition does not proceed (the ‘without’ 
position).  The ACCC compares the with and without positions to determine 
whether the proposed acquisition is likely to substantially lessen competition.   
55. 
The ACCC’s current assessment is based on the future without being the ‘status 
quo’. In this scenario, Halliburton and Baker Hughes remain independent 
competitors.  
56. 
Notwithstanding the announcements by Halliburton and Baker Hughes that they 
are intending to sell certain businesses, the ACCC’s current assessment is 
based on the future with the proposed acquisition being the combination of 
Halliburton and Baker Hughes in their entirety.  
Market Definition 
57. 
The purpose of market definition is to establish the relevant field of inquiry for 
merger analysis. It is rarely possible to draw a clear line around the market 
boundaries, particularly where competition is multi-faceted as in this matter.  
58. 
The ACCC does not expect its assessment of this matter to turn on market 
definition. Rather, the focus of the ACCC’s review has been on the likely 
competitive constraints the merged firm would face.  
59. 
The ACCC’s starting point involves identifying the products actually or potentially 
supplied by the merger parties, and the areas of overlap. The ACCC then 
considers what other products are sufficiently close substitutes to provide a 
meaningful source of constraint on the merged firm. 
Areas of overlap 
60. 
The ‘big three’ oilfield services providers, and to a lesser extent Weatherford, 
offer a large number and range of projects to E&Ps.  
61. 
Table 1 below identifies specific projects in respect of which the ACCC 
understands the merger parties overlap in Australia.   


Halliburton Company – proposed acquisition of Baker Hughes Incorporated 
 
Page 10 of 35 
Table 1: 
Overlapping products  
Drilling and Evaluation 
Completion and Production 
 
Consulting 
 
Coring 
 
Drill Bits – Fixed* 
 
Drill Bits – Roller* 
 
Drilling – Directional* 
 
Drilling – LWD/MWD* 
 
Completion fluids 
 
Drilling fluids 
 
Software 
 
Solids Control and Waste Management 
 
Surface Data Logging 
 
Wireline – Cased Hole  
 
Wireline – Open Hole 
 
Cementing* 
 
Coiled Tubing 
 
Hydraulic Fracturing and Acidizing 
 
Tubing Conveyed Perforating 
 
Completions – Well Construction* 
 
Completions – Core Completions* 
 
Completions – Well Bore Intervention  
 
Completions – Multi-Stage Fracturing 
*The ACCC understands Halliburton and / or Baker Hughes proposes that all or part of these 
businesses will be sold to third parties as outlined in paragraphs 27 and 28 above.  
62. 
The extent of the overlap between the merger parties differs in each of these 
products.   
63. 
The ACCC understands from market inquiries that post-acquisition, Halliburton 
would be the largest supplier in Australia of a number of different products.  
64. 
The ACCC also understands the merger parties offer certain products in other 
markets but do not overlap in Australia at present.  
Markets for individual products and services 
65. 
The ACCC understands that competition often occurs by good or service 
category. The ACCC is considering separate markets for the 21 good  and 
service categories identified in Table 1.  For functional reasons, E&Ps are not 
able to substitute one good or service for another.   
66. 
Tendering is often conducted on the basis of these good and service categories. 
The ACCC understands that suppliers also typically structure business units in 
line with, or on a very similar basis to, Table 1. Suppliers of a certain category 
cannot easily switch production into an alternative category, in response to a 
small increase in price. This is because there are specialised production 
processes, R&D, training and expertise required.  
67. 
The ACCC is exploring the boundaries of these individual product markets 
further, including whether a broader approach to market definition may be 
appropriate, and invites submissions from market participants on this issue. 
Market for integrated services  
68. 
Based on market feedback, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that in addition to 
individual product markets, there is a market for integrated services in Australia. 
The ACCC understands that there is a range of tendering and supply behaviours 
evident in oilfield services. The ACCC has received feedback that integrated 
services involve the provision of a package of goods and services, with the 
oilfield service provider also offering some form of coordination or managed 
delivery of these products across the package of goods and services provided.  


Halliburton Company – proposed acquisition of Baker Hughes Incorporated 
 
Page 11 of 35 
69. 
The ACCC understands that there is a spectrum of integration.   
70. 
The more sophisticated end of the spectrum is where an oilfield services 
provider provides project management for a project as a separate service which 
the ACCC understands is generally referred to as ‘Integrated Project 
Management’ or ‘Integrated Services’. While the ACCC understands that the 
merger parties do not currently supply project management as a separate 
service line to any Australian projects, the ACCC understands that project 
management is provided by the merger parties in other markets17.  
71. 
Market feedback suggests that the Australian market may be moving away from 
contracts for individual products and towards broader packages including 
Integrated Project Management or Integrated Services, and that some oilfield 
service providers are actively providing services of this kind to Australian E&Ps. 
72. 
Another form of integration is where oilfield service providers offer price 
discounts across a package of goods and/or services, together with some form 
of service or project coordination.  Coordination ensures the delivery of several 
goods and services is efficient and harmonised, which can benefit E&Ps. Market 
feedback indicates that some form of co-ordination maybe offered by providers 
where E&Ps purchase a number of products or services.   
73. 
While the ACCC is considering this market across all projects in Australia, 
market feedback suggests that customers are more likely to demand a more 
sophisticated package of oilfield services for complex projects (such as 
deepwater18 or high pressure, high temperature (HPHT)19 projects). The ACCC 
has also not ruled out the possibility there are separate markets for integrated 
services for onshore and offshore drilling projects.  
74. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that there is a market for integrated services 
which is not limited to project management supplied as an additional service 
line.  However the ACCC notes that it has received mixed feedback in this 
respect and would welcome further information regarding the extent to which 
integrated or coordinated services are currently offered, or expected to be 
offered in the future.  
75. 
Integrated services are discussed in more detail at paragraph 104 below.  
Offshore and onshore drilling projects 
76. 
The ACCC considers that substitution possibilities, and thus competitive 
constraints, can also depend on whether the customer requires oilfield services 
for offshore or onshore drilling projects. Thus, the ACCC proposes to further 
define markets for onshore and offshore drilling.  
                                                 
 
17 http://www.bakerhughes.com/products-and-services/integrated-operations/integrated-services 
http://www.halliburton.com/en-US_solutions_public/ps/workflow-integration/default.page?node-id=hgjyd48l 
18 See for example, Schlumberger, Oilfield Glossary, accessed 30 September 2015.  
http://www.glossary.oilfield.slb.com/en/Terms/d/deepwater_play.aspx 
19 In the UK, high pressure, high temperature (HPHT) is defined as pore pressures of at least 0.8psi/ft and / or 
temperatures in excess of 149 degrees Celsius. 
See for example, Schlumberger, Oilfield Glossary, accessed 24 September 2015.  
http://www.glossary.oilfield.slb.com/en/Terms/h/hpht.aspx   


Halliburton Company – proposed acquisition of Baker Hughes Incorporated 
 
Page 12 of 35 
77. 
The ACCC understands that equipment is typically not substituted between the 
two environments. Onshore equipment is typically not suitable for offshore 
requirements and vice versa. However, there may be some tools or equipment 
which are useful for both onshore and offshore projects. In addition, as 
discussed in more detail below the ACCC understands that offshore projects are 
associated with greater risks than onshore projects, which may have an impact 
on substitution possibilities. The ACCC is exploring these issues further.  
78. 
In addition, the ACCC considers that the substitution possibilities available to 
customers in the Cooper Basin are different to those available to customers in 
other onshore locations. This is because the Cooper Basin has geological 
characteristics more complex than other onshore operations and is more remote 
than most onshore basins. The ACCC proposes to treat the Cooper Basin as a 
segment of the onshore market.  
Geographic market  
79. 
The merger parties are global entities with operations in a number of countries.  
Market inquiries indicate that the parties are able to move assets from country to 
country in response to demand and supply imbalances.   
80. 
There are therefore global dimensions to competition that are relevant to the 
ACCC’s assessment of the proposed acquisition. Nevertheless, the ACCC 
considers that the geographic dimension of all the relevant product markets is 
Australia-wide for the reasons below. 
81. 
Initial market feedback indicates that, in relation to Australian projects, E&Ps 
seek and award tenders to oilfield services providers who have a physical 
presence in Australia. There are different oil and gas basins around Australia 
and oilfield services providers often have support infrastructure proximate to the 
basin. However, oilfield services can often be provided from a main support base 
with auxiliary bases closer to the drilling operations.  
82. 
The ACCC understands that some products and services (for example, drilling 
fluids) and those in remote locations may require a more significant local support 
base. This suggests there may also be local or regional elements to competition. 
Preliminary view on relevant markets 
83. 
Based on information received to date, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the 
markets relevant for assessing the competition effects of the acquisition are: 
 
individual markets for the categories of products identified in Table 1 above, 
separately for onshore and offshore drilling projects in Australia (that is, 
there is a market for onshore cementing and a separate market for offshore 
cementing etc.)  
 
an integrated services market in Australia. 
84. 
The ACCC is not investigating products and services where current information 
suggests that the merger parties do not overlap in Australia. However, the ACCC 
may do so in the future if new information is received.  


Halliburton Company – proposed acquisition of Baker Hughes Incorporated 
 
Page 13 of 35 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary views about 
the definition of the relevant markets. In particular market participants may wish to 
comment on: 
 
the boundaries of the relevant product markets identified by the ACCC  
 
the extent to which customers are able to meet their current and future 
requirements for integrated or coordinated services by selecting from a variety of 
individual suppliers rather than a single supplier  
 
differences in customer requirements for, and supply of, products and services in 
offshore and onshore drilling environments 
 
the geographic boundaries of the relevant market, including the importance of 
global, national and regional elements of competition. 
Market shares and concentration 
85. 
The ACCC has limited information about market shares and concentration in the 
relevant markets and is exploring this issue further.  
86. 
Market shares based on revenue may not be a reliable indicator of the extent of 
competition in oilfield services and the constraint from alternative suppliers. This 
is because revenues measured at any particular time may be dominated by large 
and infrequent tenders. Similarly, market shares based on the number of 
contracts won may not be a reliable indicator of the likely effect of the proposed 
acquisition on market concentration if: 
 
a small number of contracts account for a large share of revenues in a 
market  
 
a large number of contracts account for a small share of revenues in a 
market.   
87. 
The ACCC understands from market inquiries that the merged firm will be the 
market leader in the following products and services for onshore and offshore 
projects combined: 
a. coring  
b. drill bits – roller cone 
c. cementing  
d. hydraulic fracturing and acidizing  
e. coiled tubing 
f. tubing conveyed perforations 
g. wireline – cased hole 
h. completions – well construction 
i. 
completions – core completions  


Halliburton Company – proposed acquisition of Baker Hughes Incorporated 
 
Page 14 of 35 
j. 
completions – wellbore intervention.  
88. 
The ACCC understands the merged firm will also be a significant competitor (or 
the only other competitor) in the following markets in which Schlumberger is the 
market leader: 
a. LWD / MWD 
b. wireline – open hole 
c. drill bits – fixed  
d. drilling – directional 
e. surface data logging 
f. fluids – drilling 
g. fluids – completions.   
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary views about 
market shares and concentration in oilfield services markets in Australia. In particular 
market participants may wish to comment on: 
 
the most appropriate means of measuring markets shares and concentration 
 
markets in which the merged firm would be market leader.  
Alternatives to the merged firm  
89. 
The ACCC is considering the constraint imposed by competitors to the merged 
firm post-acquisition. Annexure 3 below outlines the ACCC’s understanding of 
oilfield services providers operating in each of the relevant individual markets 
identified above. 
90. 
As Annexure 3 shows, in some markets, particularly offshore, there are few 
competitors to the merged firm.  
91. 
In onshore markets there are typically several active competitors. However, 
there are fewer competitors operating in the Cooper Basin where the drilling 
requirements are significantly more complex.   
Customer switching  
92. 
The level of constraint imposed by alternative current and/or potential oilfield 
services providers will depend in part on the extent to which customers are 
willing and able to switch between suppliers.  
93. 
Customers can either switch suppliers during a drilling project, or between 
drilling projects. Market feedback indicates that the level of switching differs 
between onshore and offshore projects. 
94. 
In onshore projects, it appears customer switching is more likely. Contracts are 
typically of shorter duration and lower value than in offshore markets. More 
importantly, the drilling projects are less technical and therefore require less 
rigorous qualification processes. Also, there are typically more suppliers 
available in onshore markets.   


Halliburton Company – proposed acquisition of Baker Hughes Incorporated 
 
Page 15 of 35 
95. 
For offshore projects, however, it appears customer switching within the duration 
of a project is infrequent and difficult. Market participants described long and 
detailed tender processes (sometimes involving many months) before a provider 
is offered a contract. This process ensures the highest quality product or service 
is obtained at the best possible price.   
96. 
Once a drilling project is underway, E&Ps and providers develop close working 
relationships. Such relationships, especially on a successful project, make 
switching to a new provider less likely. A supplier competitor would need to offer 
a substantial discount, but even this may not compensate for the additional risks 
entailed with switching.  
97. 
Some market participants described contractual fees and charges customers 
must pay to an incumbent for connecting a competitor’s tools or equipment to the 
incumbent’s equipment.  
98. 
Market feedback suggests that both onshore and offshore E&Ps will, at times, 
engage a secondary provider to switch to in the event of poor performance by 
the primary provider.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary views about 
alternatives to the merged firm. In particular, market participants may wish to comment 
on: 
 
active or potential oilfield services providers in any of the products and services 
identified in Annexure 3 
 
any suppliers not identified in Annexure 3  
 
the competitive strength of any of the market participants identified in Annexure 3 
 
the nature and extent of customer switching either during a project or between 
projects.   
Competitive advantages of the major providers 
99. 
Anti-competitive effects in mergers can arise in different ways, depending on 
market characteristics.  
100. An important feature of the oilfield services markets in Australia is the 
competitive advantages that major suppliers have relative to smaller competitors 
and potential entrants.  
101. These advantages include economies of scope and scale; significant industry 
experience, particularly on complex projects, which has led to strong customer 
relationships and established reputations; and large R&D and innovation 
expenditures keeping them at the forefront of technological developments. 
These advantages mean that any switching is more likely to be to another large 
supplier, particularly offshore projects. 
102. Customers frequently described the ‘scope’ (understood to mean support 
infrastructure and networks) of the merger parties as providing comfort that the 
merger parties could source additional resources if required. The ACCC 
understands the merger parties will source equipment and personnel from 
anywhere in their global network to fulfil contracts.   
103. With such advantages, post-acquisition a combined Halliburton – Baker Hughes 
and Schlumberger are not likely to face strong competitive pressures from rivals 


Halliburton Company – proposed acquisition of Baker Hughes Incorporated 
 
Page 16 of 35 
or entrants. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that these market characteristics 
significantly increase the risk of unilateral and/or coordinated effects arising from 
the proposed acquisition. 
Ability to provide an integrated offer  
104. The ACCC is considering integrated services as a separate market as identified 
in the Market Definition section above and as discussed in the Statement of 
Issues section below. It appears there is a spectrum of integration, ranging from 
packaging through to integrated or coordinated services.  
105. Market participants have spoken of a trend towards larger oilfield services 
providers offering integrated services over recent years. This has particularly 
been the case for complex drilling projects (such as deepwater or HPHT 
projects).  
Integrated services 
106. Integrated services involve the oilfield services provider offering some form of 
project management or project coordination, as well as a comprehensive range 
of individual goods and services.    
107. Demand for integrated services appears related to project complexity. In 
complex and remote environments, customers appear more likely to require 
integrated services as the financial, environmental and reputational risks are 
higher.   
108. Integrated project management may be tendered as a separate service. Fixed-
fee, performance based and/or risk-sharing arrangements may be included in 
the pricing for the relevant package of individual products and services.  
109. Integrated services includes project coordination, where a supplier coordinates 
the various products and services it supplies on the project, through to project 
management where the supplier is heavily involved in designing, planning and 
executing the project.20 Integrated project management may also include 
‘turnkey’ arrangements where the oilfield services provider carries financial risk 
for the performance of a well until certain milestones are met.21  
110. An example of integrated services in Australia is QGC’s contract with 
Schlumberger for rig management on its CSG operations in QLD.22 Under this 
contract, Schlumberger provided an integrated service for well construction and 
well intervention.  
111. An integrated services contract includes the underlying goods and services 
necessary for drilling a well and therefore drives sales of those products and 
services. Consequently, market power in integrated services can have an impact 
                                                 
 
20 See, for example, Halliburton, accessed 25 September 2015.  
http://www.halliburton.com/en-US/ps/project-management/project-management/integrated-services.page?node-
id=hgoxc0in  
21 See for example, Schlumberger, accessed 24 September 2015.   
http://www.glossary.oilfield.slb.com/en/Terms/t/turnkey.aspx  
22 See, Schlumberger, IPM Project Catalogue, pp. 11-12, accessed 24 September 2015. 
 http://www.slb.com/~/media/Files/ipm/catalogs/integrated_project_managment_catalog.pdf   


Halliburton Company – proposed acquisition of Baker Hughes Incorporated 
 
Page 17 of 35 
on a supplier’s overall share of sales of the products and services included as 
part of an integrated service.   
112. Market feedback suggests it is rare for smaller suppliers to enter partnerships to 
offer an integrated service. Competitors identified challenges in establishing 
partnerships with the ability to compete effectively with a single integrated firm. 
The inability to efficiently provide a range of products and services constrains the 
ability of smaller suppliers to compete in the provision of integrated services. 
These suppliers do not have the necessary expertise and are unable to capture 
the efficiencies across product or service lines that the large providers can.   
113. The ACCC understands that the merger parties currently package products in 
Australia, but do not currently supply integrated project management as an 
additional service line, although they have the capacity to do so. However, this is 
not necessarily indicative of future behaviour because market feedback indicates 
that demand for integrated services in Australia may be increasing. . 
Bundling 
114. Oilfield services providers appear to frequently offer pricing discounts or service 
improvements in return for the award of more than one product or service 
contract. The ability of large oilfield services providers to bundle from their 
extensive portfolios is a competitive advantage in all individual product and 
service markets. The merger parties both have extensive portfolios and post-
acquisition would have a more extensive product and service offering. 
115. . A bundle may take the form of a single contract for multiple products and 
services (but not including project management or project coordination). 
However, it more commonly takes the form of multiple separate contracts with 
pricing discounts across the bundle.  
116. Bundle discounts may vary depending on the number of contracts secured. For 
example, customers will sometimes include a discount matrix as part of a 
request for tender or simply invite suppliers to identify opportunities for bundling. 
A discount matrix offers suppliers the opportunity to specify discounts contingent 
on the number of contracts secured.  
117. Although bundling can offer customers benefits, it can also raise the cost of entry 
as new entrants may have to offer substantial discounts to induce customers to 
‘unbundle’ the incumbent’s offer. New entrants may also have to enter in multiple 
markets in order to compete with the bundle.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary views about 
integrated services and bundling/packaging. In particular, market participants may 
wish to comment on: 
 
the distinction between integrated services and bundling 
 
current and expected future demand for integrated services 
 
the companies that offer or are able to offer integrated services currently or in the 
foreseeable future 
 
the extent and effect of bundling.   


Halliburton Company – proposed acquisition of Baker Hughes Incorporated 
 
Page 18 of 35 
Threat of entry and expansion 
High entry and expansion barriers  
118. The ACCC considers the merged firm is not likely to be constrained by the 
credible threat of entry or expansion.  Barriers to entry and expansion are 
significantly higher in offshore markets than in onshore markets and are 
amplified in integrated services. Barriers to expansion are particularly significant 
for any competitor to attain the scale and breadth of the merger parties. 
119. This Statement of Issues does not explore the differences in barriers to entry or 
expansion for each potential market in detail.  
120. Certain products and services have higher barriers to entry than others. For 
example, entry into wireline – open hole is difficult, due to high R&D costs and 
lead time.   
121. There are examples of new entry over the past 10 years in onshore markets. 
However, entry has typically been into one or two product markets and has not 
been of the scale or scope necessary to compete effectively with the merged 
firm. For example, Trican and Superior entered in Queensland’s CSG basins. 
Both companies supply cementing and other services. Condor entered hydraulic 
fracturing and related services in 2014 after securing a contract with Beach 
Energy.23  
122. As noted, entry or expansion on a scale sufficient to constrain the merged firm 
across its entire product range is unlikely. In reality, the only firms with the 
potential to constrain the merged firm across the entire product range are the 
large multinational oilfield services providers (Schlumberger and to a lesser 
extent Weatherford).  
123. The ACCC understands Weatherford has a less extensive offering in Australia 
than it does in other jurisdictions. Weatherford may be able to expand its offering 
post-acquisition if the merged firm exercised market power. This is an issue the 
ACCC is still assessing.   
124. The ACCC is considering whether other multi-national oilfield services providers 
currently present in Australia (such as GE Oil and Gas, NOV or Superior) 
present a credible threat of entry into markets affected by the acquisition. The 
ACCC’s preliminary view is that this is unlikely. These companies have limited 
offerings relative to the merger parties, meaning extensive entry would be 
required.  
125. As noted above, many customers are unwilling to switch to new entrants 
regardless of price advantages because of the risks involved, particularly for 
offshore drilling projects.  
126. The ACCC is also considering whether other overseas suppliers could enter 
Australia. Some market participants suggested there may be South East Asian 
suppliers with the ability to enter Australia.   
127. It is likely oilfield services providers currently have excess capacity. The recent 
downturn in the industry has led to significant cut backs in or deferrals of 
projects. In these conditions, providers are more likely to have excess capacity 
and are, therefore, more likely to provide a competitive constraint on the merged 
                                                 
 
23 See, Condor, accessed 30 September 2015.  
http://condorenergy.com.au/news/australias-great-fraccing-contender/  


Halliburton Company – proposed acquisition of Baker Hughes Incorporated 
 
Page 19 of 35 
firm. This is a cyclical condition, however, in contrast to the permanent effect of 
the proposed acquisition.    
128. It is the ACCC’s preliminary view that the threat of new entry or further 
expansion would not be sufficiently timely to defeat an exercise of market power 
by the merged firm. The ACCC also considers the proposed acquisition would 
likely increase barriers to entry.   
129. In the following sections, the ACCC explores certain barriers to entry that are 
most relevant to oilfield services.  
Economies of scale and scope  
130. There are economies of scale and scope in the provision of oilfield services.  
Scale economies limit the viability of entry below a minimum efficient scale.  
Entry on the scale needed to constrain the merged firm would add significantly to 
industry capacity relative to demand and thus be likely to reduce the expected 
returns from entry. The small size of the Australian oilfield service market relative 
to other geographic areas increases the difficulty for new entrant suppliers to 
achieve minimum efficient scale. 
131. Economies of scope exist as the merged firm will be a global conglomerate firm 
able to spread its fixed costs across many products and jurisdictions. Overheads 
(including support infrastructure, transport costs etc.) and administrative costs 
will be spread across the merger parties’ global network.  
132. Due to the cyclical and lumpy nature of the industry, large firms gain significant 
operational advantages through diversification across product and service 
categories, and geographic areas. For example, market participants suggested 
one supplier had recently shifted certain onshore assets from Australia to the 
Middle East in response to shifting demands.  
Experience, reputation and relationships 
133. E&Ps bear significant environmental, financial and reputational risks associated 
with projects. These risks become more significant as the drilling project 
becomes more complex.   
134. The products and services required by E&Ps are highly technical and must also 
be reliable. Market feedback suggests that experience, reputation and 
relationships are important for providers to participate and be successful in 
tenders. Offshore and complex drilling projects are especially high risk meaning 
these factors tend to be more important in offshore markets.  
135. Some customers described requiring many kilometres of drilling experience in a 
product or service before considering a new entrant. Several E&Ps advised the 
ACCC that, due to a desire to protect their reputation, they would not even 
consider a new entrant for offshore work regardless of any price advantage. 
136. A new entrant must overcome the experience and reputational advantages of 
incumbents either through superior pricing, service or technology.  
137. E&Ps have long and detailed pre-contractual qualification processes, involving 
issues such as: staff, health and safety, management, tool testing and 
scope/support infrastructure. These processes can take 12 months or more for 
providers to complete and are a considerable barrier to new entrants.   


Halliburton Company – proposed acquisition of Baker Hughes Incorporated 
 
Page 20 of 35 
Research and Development (R&D) and innovation 
138. R&D and innovation costs present a significant barrier to entry. This is 
particularly important for highly technical equipment, such as wireline – open 
hole and MWD. The ACCC understands R&D and innovation by the merger 
parties takes place in the United States.  
139. The ACCC understands the market leaders; Schlumberger, Halliburton and 
Baker Hughes spent US$1.2 billion, US$601 million and US$430 million 
respectively on R&D in 2014. This contrasts with Weatherford which spent 
US$265 million in 2013.24  
140. Technologies developed in the United States can be used globally with little 
customisation required for different geographies. The global companies are able 
to spread the sunk R&D costs across multiple jurisdictions. 
141. R&D and innovation therefore represent a significant competitive difference 
between incumbent providers and new entrants. New entrants must match, or 
better, the technical expertise of the incumbent providers. Market participants 
suggested it would take three to five years to develop any new technology, plus 
additional testing. It may be open for prospective rivals to access any essential 
proprietary technology through licensing arrangements. However, some market 
participants raised concerns about the feasibility of this.   
142. The ACCC understands there is little product development occurring in Australia 
or specific to Australia. The ACCC has not identified any companies which 
entered through local product innovation. Recent entry has occurred through the 
use of tools and equipment developed in other jurisdictions.  
143. There are tools and equipment available ‘off the shelf’, which are manufactured 
in the United States and China in particular. The ACCC understands the recent 
expansion of onshore drilling projects in the United States has led to the 
commoditisation of certain tools and equipment. Where tools are available ‘off 
the shelf’, R&D is unlikely to present a material barrier to entry. The ACCC is 
considering the availability of ‘off the shelf’ equipment.  
144. The ACCC is exploring the nature of R&D in oilfield services, including whether 
or not patent protection for technologies in the industry is strong. Much of the 
investment in R&D and innovation appears to be in developing products and 
services and updating and upgrading existing products.  
Sunk costs and deterrence of entry    
145. Typically, one or more of the market leaders in oilfield services (Schlumberger, 
Halliburton and Baker Hughes) will be active and dominant in each geographic 
or product market. The scope of these suppliers and the presence of large sunk 
costs creates high barriers to new entry or expansion.   
146. New entrants will likely face difficulties in competing against incumbents that 
might not take their sunk costs into account when setting prices in response to 
the threat of entry. Faced with entry, the incumbent might choose to reduce 
prices to a point where it is not covering some or all of its sunk costs. As the 
entrant has not yet incurred sunk costs, it will need to take these additional costs 
into account when determining its own pricing.   
                                                 
 
24 Schlumberger, 2014 Annual Report (Form 10-K), p. 31; Halliburton, 2014 Annual Report (Form 10-K), p. 2; Baker 
Hughes, 2014 Annual Report (Form 10-K), p. 54; Weatherford, 2014 Annual Report (Form 10-K), p. 5. 


Halliburton Company – proposed acquisition of Baker Hughes Incorporated 
 
Page 21 of 35 
147. In these circumstances an equally efficient, or even a more efficient, entrant may 
be unable to price competitively. The ACCC understands incumbent suppliers 
have reacted strongly to new entry in the past by reducing prices. A reputation 
for retaliation may also be sufficient to deter new entry.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary views about 
the threat of entry and barriers to entry. In particular market participants may wish to 
comment on: 
 
the importance of experience, reputation and relationships  
 
the extent and importance of R&D and innovation in oilfield services(including the 
prevalence and importance of patents in oilfield services)  
 
the importance of offering a range of oilfield services and the ability of the global 
conglomerate firms to spread fixed costs across their global network 
 
the likely strategic behaviour of market leaders. 
Countervailing power 
148. The ACCC is exploring the extent of countervailing power held by E&Ps.  
149. As set out in the ACCC Merger Guidelines, countervailing power exists when 
buyers have special characteristics which enable them to credibly threaten to 
bypass the merged firm, for example, by vertically integrating into the upstream 
market (for example, in this case providing oilfield services in-house) or by 
sponsoring new entry. 
150. E&Ps are typically large, multinational companies with sophisticated 
procurement processes and strategies. However, market feedback suggests that 
even the large multinational E&Ps may not hold significant countervailing power. 
Countervailing power is more likely in onshore markets than offshore markets 
where barriers to entry are higher.  
151. The ACCC is exploring whether there are examples of vertical integration in 
oilfield services in Australia. The ACCC understands Sirius Well Manufacturing 
Services (SWMS) is a joint venture between Shell and CNPC. This represents 
an example of successful vertical integration by E&Ps. The ACCC is not yet 
aware of the extent of SWMS’s operations in Australia.  
152. There have been some examples of sponsored entry in onshore markets over 
the past decade. However, this has been generally of limited scale and in a small 
number of markets. Sponsored entry does not appear to be of the magnitude 
necessary to constrain the merged firm across its entire operation. 
153. The ACCC understands multinational oil and gas operators will sometimes 
sponsor R&D by oilfield services providers where the operator has identified a 
need. Such sponsorship may provide an avenue for entry by a new competitor, 
although the sponsor would retain ownership of the technology. However, the 
ACCC considers such sponsorship would likely only occur in a narrow product or 
service segment and would be unlikely to constrain an exercise of market power 
by the merged firm across a broad range of markets, although it may provide a 
constraint in a narrow market or segment.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary views about 
countervailing power. In particular market participants may wish to comment on: 


Halliburton Company – proposed acquisition of Baker Hughes Incorporated 
 
Page 22 of 35 
 
the ability of E&Ps to bypass market leaders 
 
the extent of any vertical integration or sponsored entry. 
Statement of Issues  
154. In the following sections, this Statement of Issues considers the competition 
effects of the proposed acquisition in each of the areas of concern, or potential 
concern, the ACCC has identified.  
155. As many of the competition issues are relevant across the areas of concern, 
much of the competition analysis is captured in the preceding sections. The 
following sections expand on competition issues particular to each area of 
concern.  
156. Common issues discussed above and relevant to all areas of concern are as 
follows: 
 
The major providers have competitive advantages over smaller competitors 
through scale and scope; significant industry experience, particularly on 
complex projects, which has led to strong customer relationships and 
established reputations; large R&D and innovation expenditures keeping 
them at the forefront of technological development and an enhanced ability 
to offer package discounts.  
 
The threat of entry and expansion is low as barriers are high in oilfield 
service markets in Australia.  
 
Although customers are often large multi-national companies, they do not 
necessarily have countervailing power (being, the ability to credibly bypass 
the merged firm).  
All drilling projects 
Issue of concern: Unilateral effects in the supply of oilfield services to all drilling 
projects, in a market for integrated services. 
157. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition by removing a significant competitor in a market 
for integrated services.  
158. The ACCC understands that only Schlumberger and the merger parties are able 
to offer integrated services. A significant portfolio is necessary, as it results in 
expertise across a broad range of products and services, and creates 
opportunities for cost savings through shared efficiencies. Thus Schlumberger, 
Halliburton and Baker Hughes are close competitors in this market.  
159. The ACCC understands that Schlumberger has the most extensive portfolio of 
oilfield services and has been a strong driver of integrated services. Post-
acquisition, Schlumberger would remain the market leader in the integrated 
services market in Australia. 
160. The ACCC is not aware of any integrated services contracts, where the merger 
parties provide ‘Integrated Project Management’ or ‘Integrated Services’ that are 
currently being supplied  in Australia at present, although it appears that they do 


Halliburton Company – proposed acquisition of Baker Hughes Incorporated 
 
Page 23 of 35 
offer these integrated services globally.25 However, the merger parties have 
been and will continue to be the only competitors to Schlumberger for these 
types of integrated services contracts.   
161. Globally and in Australia, Weatherford is the next largest competitor after the 
three market leaders discussed above. Weatherford also offer a broad range  of 
goods and services. However, there are gaps in Weatherford’s portfolio limiting 
its ability to compete in the most sophisticated end of the bundled oilfield 
services market. Also, market feedback suggests Weatherford has a smaller 
presence in Australia than in some other geographic areas. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary views about 
the competition assessment outlined above. In particular market participants may wish 
to comment on: 
 
the importance of bundled oilfield services, particularly when provided as 
integrated services 
 
the importance of an extensive portfolio of oilfield services 
 
the ability of suppliers who do not supply a wide range of products and services to 
constrain suppliers who offer a broader range, including by teaming up with other 
suppliers to offer a competing integrated system. 
Issue of concern: Coordinated effects in the supply of oilfield services for all drilling 
projects in Australia. 
162. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is likely to lead to a 
substantial lessening of competition in onshore and offshore markets through 
coordinated effects.  
163. Market participants raised concerns about the merged firm engaging in 
coordinated rather than competitive conduct with Schlumberger post-acquisition. 
This may be the case if the proposed acquisition alters the nature of the 
interdependence between Halliburton and Schlumberger in a way that makes 
coordination more likely, complete or sustainable. The ACCC notes that such co-
ordination would not require explicit agreement, and may only involve tacit 
coordination.  
164. The ACCC considers coordinated conduct possible where:  
 
firms have the ability and incentive to settle on terms that are profitable for 
all 
 
firms can detect deviations from the consensus 
 
the threat of retaliation from other firms involved is sufficiently costly to act 
as a deterrent to deviation 
 
the consensus is not undermined by competitive constraints in or outside the 
market.  
                                                 
 
25 Halliburton, 2014 Annual Report, p. 4; Baker Hughes, 2014 Annual Report, p. 9 (and p. 4 of the Form 10-K). 


Halliburton Company – proposed acquisition of Baker Hughes Incorporated 
 
Page 24 of 35 
165. The ACCC is exploring two avenues in which coordinated conduct could 
potentially occur: 
 
through market sharing arrangements across the various goods and 
services, and geographies in which the merger parties compete with 
Schlumberger (for example, the merged firm could focus on particular 
product categories in which it has strength, such as pressure pumping or 
completions, while Schlumberger might focus on areas in which it has 
strength, such as wireline).  
 
through potential coordinated conduct within markets where post-
acquisition, the merged firm and Schlumberger would be the only remaining 
competitors (such as offshore directional drilling).  
166. The ACCC considers there are several factors that suggest coordination may be 
more likely, complete and sustainable as a result of the merger.  
167. The proposed acquisition significantly increases the level of concentration in 
oilfield services in Australia generally, and in many markets specifically. Such an 
increase in concentration makes it easier for market participants to coordinate 
behaviour and to monitor compliance coordination.  
168. Post-acquisition there will be greater symmetry between the product range and 
size of the merged firm and Schlumberger. This may make it easier for the 
parties to co-ordinate in a way that is profitable for both parties. Similarly, greater 
symmetry is more likely to align incentives to deviate and to punish, thus making 
coordination more sustainable.   
169. As set out above, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that alternatives to the merged 
firm, the threat of new entry or expansion and countervailing power of customers 
are unlikely to provide effective competitive constraints. Consequently, these 
constraints would be unlikely to destabilise any potential coordinated conduct.  
170. However, there are certain features of the market which may suggest 
coordinated conduct may be difficult in practice. For example, large projects 
tendered for on irregular intervals may increase the incentive for providers to 
compete and may make it harder for participants to punish competitive 
behaviour. 
171. Products offered by oilfield services providers can be differentiated. For 
example, liner hangers differ between providers (market feedback indicates that 
Baker Hughes  has mostly conventional liner hangers whereas Halliburton has 
expandable liner hangers). Differentiation may make it more difficult for market 
participants to determine whether a tender was lost as a result of deviation from 
a coordinated arrangement or simply a customer preference for a differentiated 
product. However, the acquisition of Baker Hughes may mean there is less 
product differentiation post-merger and may therefore make it easier to identify 
deviation.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary views outlined 
above. In particular market participants may wish to comment on: 
 
the likelihood that the proposed acquisition will lead to coordinated effects in any 
market 


Halliburton Company – proposed acquisition of Baker Hughes Incorporated 
 
Page 25 of 35 
 
the ways in which the proposed acquisition may change the nature of 
interdependence between rivals so that coordination is more likely, complete or 
sustainable 
 
the ways in which coordination might occur, for example, market sharing, customer 
allocation or tacit agreements on price.  
Offshore drilling projects 
Issue of concern: Unilateral effects in the supply of oilfield services to offshore drilling 
projects, in a number of separate markets. 
172. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition by removing a significant supplier or potential 
supplier with the capability, expertise and experience to separately provide each 
of the goods  and services identified in Annexure 1. The ACCC’s preliminary 
view is that the constraints imposed on the merged firm post-acquisition will not 
be sufficient to prevent an exercise of market power.  
173. As identified above, the ACCC understands the merged firm would have a 
market leading position in certain products. This position would likely give the 
merged firm market power in these markets, particularly in those instances 
where there are few alternatives to the merged firm. 
174. With respect to goods and services where one or both of the merger parties’ 
Australian sales are not currently high, the ACCC considers their existing 
Australian presence combined with their global capabilities mean they are 
potential new entrants and/or capable of expanding their existing offers if 
profitable to do so. The merger parties therefore provide a constraint on one 
another in the relevant markets. This constraint would be removed post-
acquisition.   
175. In markets for offshore drilling projects, there are varying levels of constraint 
from alternatives to the merger parties. As identified in Annexure 3, in some 
markets there is one alternative, in others there are two or three. The constraint 
provided by these alternatives varies, however, from one market to the next 
depending on the strength of competitor. Market feedback suggests that across 
offshore markets, competitors to the big three only capture a small share of total 
revenue. 
176. As discussed above, the merger parties have significant competitive advantages 
over smaller competitors.   
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary views outlined 
above. In particular market participants may wish to comment on: 
 
the likelihood the proposed acquisition would remove a significant supplier or 
potential supplier for particular offshore goods and services 
 
the nature and extent of constraint proved by alternative offshore providers.  


Halliburton Company – proposed acquisition of Baker Hughes Incorporated 
 
Page 26 of 35 
Onshore drilling projects 
Issue that may raise concerns: Unilateral effects in the supply of oilfield services to 
onshore drilling projects, in a number of separate markets. 
177. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition may substantially 
lessen competition by removing a significant supplier or potential supplier with 
the capability, expertise and experience to separately provide each of the goods 
and services identified in Annexure 2.  
178. As discussed above, the merger parties have significant competitive advantages 
over smaller competitors. As identified in Annexure 3 below, in the goods and 
services identified in Annexure 2 there are few competitors in Australia at 
present for onshore drilling projects. 
179. The ACCC understands from market feedback that the merged firm would have 
strong presence  in coring, and hydraulic fracturing and acidizing,  completions – 
core completions and completions – wellbore intervention.  
180. The ACCC understands one or other of the merger parties has a small presence 
in surface data logging and wireline – open hole in Australia at present. 
However, these markets appear to be  characterised by a relatively small 
number of competitors and face limited constraint from the available alternatives.  
181. As discussed in more detail above, there are high barriers to entry across all 
markets, including onshore markets. Barriers to entry are likely particularly high 
in wireline – open hole where sophisticated electronics are used.   
182. As also discussed in more detail above, the proposed acquisition removes the 
most likely competitor to enter or expand into these goods or services. 
183. The competition concerns identified for onshore markets are particularly relevant 
to the Cooper Basin segment of the market. The remoteness and particular 
geological characteristics in the Cooper Basin increase the barriers to entry and 
expansion. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is likely 
to be most problematic in the Cooper Basin in the goods and services identified 
in Annexure 2.    
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary views about 
the definition of the relevant market(s). In particular market participants may wish to 
comment on: 
 
the likelihood that the proposed acquisition would remove a significant competitor 
or potential competitor for particular onshore goods and services 
 
the impact on particular projects such as those in the Cooper Basin. 
ACCC's future steps 
184. The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
185. As noted above, the ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on 
each of the issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue 
that may be relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. Submissions are 
to be received by the ACCC no later than 12 November 2015 and should be 
emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au. 


Halliburton Company – proposed acquisition of Baker Hughes Incorporated 
 
Page 27 of 35 
186. The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 17 December 2015. 
However the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Merger Review 
Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose of 
explaining the ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's public 
announcement. 
 


Halliburton Company – proposed acquisition of Baker Hughes Incorporated 
 
Page 28 of 35 
ANNEXURE 1 
 
Offshore goods and services where the ACCC has concerns are: 
a. coring 
b. drill bits – fixed 
c. drill bits – roller 
d. drilling – directional 
e. logging while drilling (LWD) and measurement while drilling (MWD) 
f. completion fluids 
g. drilling fluids 
h. software 
i. 
surface data logging 
j. 
wireline – cased hole 
k. wireline – open hole 
l. 
cementing 
m. coiled tubing  
n. completions – well construction 
o. completions – core completions 
p. completions – wellbore intervention 


Halliburton Company – proposed acquisition of Baker Hughes Incorporated 
 
Page 29 of 35 
ANNEXURE 2 
 
Onshore goods and services where the ACCC has concerns are:  
a. drilling – directional 
b. surface data logging 
c. wireline – open hole 
d. cementing 
e. hydraulic fracturing and acidizing  
f. completions – core completions 
g. completions – wellbore intervention 
 
 
 


Halliburton Company – proposed acquisition of Baker Hughes Incorporated 
 
Page 30 of 35 
ANNEXURE 3   
 
The table below outlines the ACCC’s understanding of the suppliers offering each goodor service to onshore and offshore drilling 
projects. 
  
Table 2: 
Oilfield services providers in Australia  
Product  /  service line 
Supplier 
Onshore 
Offshore 
ACCC comments  
Directional drilling 
Halliburton  
Yes 
Yes 
   
Baker Hughes 
Yes 
Yes 
 
Schlumberger 
Yes 
Yes 
 
Weatherford 
Yes 
No 
 
Scientific Drilling International 
Yes 
No 
 
Surtron Technologies 
Yes 
No 
 
National Oilwell Varco (NOV) 
Yes 
Yes 
Provides toll and equipment rental services only.    
Stealth Tools 
Yes 
No 
Provides toll and equipment rental services only.   
Geoglide Well Positioning 
Services 
Yes 
No 
 
MWD / LWD 
Halliburton  
Yes 
Yes 
 
Baker Hughes 
Yes 
Yes 
 
Schlumberger 
Yes 
Yes 
 
Weatherford 
Yes 
No 
 
Scientific Drilling International 
Yes 
No 
 
Surtron Technologies 
Yes 
No 
 
NOV 
Yes 
Yes 
Provides rental services for tools and equipment.  
Stealth Tools 
Yes 
No 
Provides rental services for tools and equipment.   
Geoglide Well Positioning 
Services 
Yes 
No 
Understood to not be active in LWD.  


Halliburton Company – proposed acquisition of Baker Hughes Incorporated 
 
Page 31 of 35 
Product  /  service line 
Supplier 
Onshore 
Offshore 
ACCC comments  
Wireline – cased hole  
Halliburton  
Yes 
Yes 
 
Baker Hughes 
Yes 
Yes 
 
Schlumberger 
Yes 
Yes 
 
Weatherford 
Yes 
No 
  
SGS 
Yes 
No 
  
Vause Oil Production Services 
Yes 
No 
  
Expro 
Yes 
Yes 
  
Archer Limited 
Yes 
No 
 Tool rental. No services.  
Owen Oil Tools 
Yes 
No 
 Tool rental. No services.  
Wireline – open hole 
Halliburton  
Yes 
Yes 
  
Baker Hughes 
Yes 
Yes 
 
Schlumberger 
Yes 
Yes 
 
Weatherford 
Yes 
No 
 
Coring  
Halliburton  
Yes 
Yes 
 
Baker Hughes 
Yes 
Yes 
 
Schlumberger 
No 
No 
 
NOV  
Yes 
Yes 
  
Corpro 
Yes 
Yes 
  


Halliburton Company – proposed acquisition of Baker Hughes Incorporated 
 
Page 32 of 35 
Product  /  service line 
Supplier 
Onshore 
Offshore 
ACCC comments  
Drill bits  
 
(combines fixed and 
roller drill bits) 
Halliburton  
Yes 
Yes 
 
Baker Hughes 
Yes 
Yes 
 
Schlumberger 
Yes 
Yes 
 
NOV 
Yes 
Yes 
Understood to have limited presence for offshore drilling 
projects.    
Varel International 
Yes 
No 
  
Ulterra 
Yes 
No 
  
Tercel 
Yes 
No 
  
Stealth Tools 
Yes 
No 
  
Surface data logging 
Halliburton  
Yes 
No 
 
Baker Hughes 
Yes 
Yes 
 
Schlumberger 
Yes 
Yes 
 
Weatherford 
Yes 
No 
 
Cementing 
Halliburton  
Yes 
Yes 
 
Baker Hughes 
Yes 
Yes 
 
Schlumberger 
Yes 
Yes 
 
Davis Lynch 
No 
Yes 
  
Weatherford 
Yes 
No 
  
Trican Well Services 
Yes 
No 
  
Sirius Well Manufacturing 
Services 
Yes 
No 
  
TopCo 
Yes 
No 
  
Superior Energy Services 
Yes 
No 
  


Halliburton Company – proposed acquisition of Baker Hughes Incorporated 
 
Page 33 of 35 
Product  /  service line 
Supplier 
Onshore 
Offshore 
ACCC comments  
Completions 
 
(combines:  
well construction  
core completions 
wellbore intervention 
multi-stage fracturing) 
Halliburton  
Yes 
Yes 
 
Baker Hughes 
Yes 
Yes 
 
Schlumberger 
Yes 
Yes 
 
Weatherford 
Yes 
Yes 
  
Expro 
Yes 
Yes 
Understood to be active in wellbore intervention only.  
Archer Limited 
Yes 
No 
  
TAM International 
Yes 
No 
  
Interwell 
Yes 
No 
  
Well Dog 
Yes   
No 
  
Vause Oil Production Services 
Yes 
No 
  
Peak 
Yes 
No 
  
Tendeka 
Yes 
No 
  
 
 
 
 
Magnum Oil Tools 
Yes 
No 
  
Hydraulic fracturing  
Halliburton  
Yes 
Yes 
 
Baker Hughes 
Yes 
Yes 
 
Schlumberger 
Yes 
Yes 
 
Condor Energy 
Yes 
No 
Including the Cooper Basin.  
Drilling fluids 
Halliburton  
Yes 
Yes 
 
Baker Hughes 
Yes 
Yes 
 
Schlumberger 
Yes 
Yes 
 
Newpark 
Yes 
Yes 
 
AMC Oil and Gas 
Yes 
No 
 
Nalco 
Yes 
No 
 
Completion fluids 
Halliburton  
Yes 
Yes 
 


Halliburton Company – proposed acquisition of Baker Hughes Incorporated 
 
Page 34 of 35 
Product  /  service line 
Supplier 
Onshore 
Offshore 
ACCC comments  
Baker Hughes 
Yes 
Yes 
 
Schlumberger 
Yes 
Yes 
 
Newpark 
Yes 
Yes 
 
AMC Oil and Gas 
Yes 
No 
 
Nalco 
Yes 
No 
 
Coiled Tubing 
Halliburton  
Yes 
Yes 
 
Baker Hughes 
Yes 
Yes 
 
Schlumberger 
Yes 
Yes 
 
Superior Energy Services 
Yes 
Yes 
 
OzCoil 
Yes 
No 
 
Savanna Energy Services 
Yes 
No 
 
Condor Energy 
Yes 
No 
 
Drover Energy 
Yes 
No 
 
Energy Drilling 
Yes 
No 
 
Wellpro 
Yes 
No 
 
Tubing Conveyed 
Perforations 
Halliburton  
Yes 
Yes 
 
Baker Hughes 
Yes 
Yes 
 
Schlumberger 
Yes 
Yes 
 
Weatherford 
Yes 
No 
 
SGS 
Yes 
Yes 
 
Expro 
Yes 
Yes 
 
Owen Oil Tools 
Yes 
No 
 
READ Cased Hole 
Yes 
No 
 
Solids Control and 
Waste Management 
Halliburton  
Yes 
Yes 
 
Baker Hughes 
Yes 
Yes 
Baker Hughes has a small presence in Australia.  


Halliburton Company – proposed acquisition of Baker Hughes Incorporated 
 
Page 35 of 35 
Product  /  service line 
Supplier 
Onshore 
Offshore 
ACCC comments  
Schlumberger 
Yes 
Yes 
 
Kayden Industries 
Yes 
No 
 
Scomi Oilfield Services 
Yes 
No 
 
NOV 
Yes 
No 
 
AMC Oil and Gas 
Yes 
No 
Presence in Perth Basin only.  
Step Oil Tools 
Yes 
No 
 
Axiom  
Yes 
No 
 
Derrick 
Yes 
No 
 
NewPark 
Yes  
No 
Presence in the Northern Territory only.  
Consulting 
Halliburton 
Yes 
Yes 
 
Baker Hughes 
Yes 
Yes 
 
Schlumberger 
Yes 
Yes 
 
Azteck 
Yes 
Yes 
 
Read Cased Hole 
Yes 
Yes 
 
Software 
Halliburton 
Yes 
Yes 
 
Baker Hughes 
Yes 
Yes 
 
Schlumberger 
Yes 
Yes 
 
Paradigm 
Yes 
Yes 
 
DownUnder GeoSolutions 
Yes 
Yes 
 
Independent Data Services 
Yes 
Yes 
 
 
 
 
 
