 
 
Land of the Ngunnawal people
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
tel: (02) 6243 1368 
www.accc.gov.au
Our ref: IM-72885 
 
24 July 2025  
Dear Interested Party 
Re: ACCC seeking your views: Ellerslie’s proposed acquisition of the LPC Group 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
the proposed acquisition of a 70% interest in the LPC Group (LPC) by Ellerslie Free Range 
Farms Pty Ltd (Ellerslie) (the Proposed Acquisition).  
Ellerslie and LPC are both suppliers of shell eggs and poultry feed in Australia and are 
active across multiple levels of the egg production supply chain.  
Further details regarding the parties and the Proposed Acquisition are provided at 
Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact of the Proposed Acquisition on 
competition. In particular, we are seeking your views on: 
• 
the closeness of competition between Ellerslie and LPC in the supply of shell eggs 
and poultry feed 
• 
the availability of alternative suppliers of shell eggs and poultry feed, and 
• 
any impact of the Proposed Acquisition on the acquisition of inputs required for the 
supply of shell eggs. 
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the Proposed Acquisition is in section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
Please provide your response by Tuesday 5 August 2025 via email to 
mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: Submission re: Ellerslie / LPC. If you require more time 
to respond, please let us know. 
If you would like to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any questions about this 


 
 
letter, please contact mergers@accc.gov.au. 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public 
Mergers Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC treats sensitive information it receives during a merger review as confidential, 
and will not publish your submission. We will not disclose submissions to third parties 
(except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of 
information legislation or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the 
Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, we will notify you in advance where possible so that you have an opportunity to 
be heard. Therefore please clearly indicate if any information you provide is confidential. 
Our Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on 
confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
Morag Bond 
General Manager  
Merger Assessments  
 
 
 
 


 
 
Attachment A 
 
 
Ellerslie 
 
Ellerslie is a Queensland based agricultural business in the egg farming and production 
sector.  
 
Ellerslie’s layer farms produce caged, cage free, free range, pasture raised and organic 
shell eggs.  Ellerslie sells graded shell eggs to wholesalers or distributors including 
Sunny Queen, who distribute shell eggs to retailers, foodservice customers, and other 
channels.  
 
Ellerslie has three rearing sites, five layer farms, a feedmill complex, and grading, 
processing and warehousing facilities across Queensland. Ellerslie’s feedmill includes an 
organic and conventional mill.  
 
Ellerslie has a 50% interest in Sunny Queen, with the other 50% held by the McLean 
family (through Alpair Pty Ltd). Sunny Queen has three processing facilities in 
Queensland, and one grading site in Victoria. It also has warehouses in NSW and 
Victoria. 
 
Ellerslie is indirectly owned by Public Sector Pension Investment Board (PSP 
Investments) via its wholly owned subsidiary PSP Investments Aztec Pty Ltd (PSP 
Aztec) as trustee for the Ellerslie Trust (currently 60%) and DHP Consolidated Pty Ltd 
(DHPC) on behalf of the Hall family (currently 40%).   
 
LPC  
 
LPC is a NSW based shell egg production business that supplies shell eggs and poultry 
feed. 
 
LPC operates in the Riverina and Southwest Slopes regions of NSW where it has two 
pullet rearing facilities, three layer farms (plus one in development), one feedmill, and a 
transport division.  
 
LPC supplies feed (for poultry and pigs) and ungraded shell eggs to third parties from its 
facilities in NSW. 
 
The proposed acquisition 
 
In addition to Ellerslie’s acquisition of 70% of LPC, the Proposed Acquisition includes the 
acquisition of specified property, plant, equipment and vehicles used in the business of 
LPC. 
 


 
 
 
Attachment B 
1. Please provide a brief description of your interest in the Proposed Acquisition, 
including any commercial relationship(s) with Ellerslie or LPC.  
Questions for acquirers and suppliers of shell eggs 
2. How closely do Ellerslie (including Sunny Queen) and LPC compete to supply shell 
eggs? How do they compare as suppliers of shell eggs? In your response, please 
consider price, quality and product range. 
3. Please provide an outline of the alternative suppliers of shell eggs, and how they 
compare to Ellerslie, Sunny Queen and LPC. In your response, please consider their 
size, product range, geographic location of their facilities, price and quality. 
4. If you are a wholesale acquirer of shell eggs, how would you respond if the price of 
shell eggs supplied by the merged firm increased by 5-10%? To what extent would 
you be able to switch to other suppliers or otherwise resist proposed price 
increases? 
5. In your view, do you think that the Proposed Acquisition would be likely to reduce 
competition in the supply of shell eggs and, if so, how (in terms of price or other 
aspects of supply)? 
Questions for acquirers and suppliers of poultry feed 
6. If you are an acquirer of poultry feed, provide details of how Ellerslie and LPC have 
competed for your business. How do they compare as suppliers of poultry feed? In 
your response, please have regard to price, quality, product range and location. 
7. Please provide an outline of the alternative suppliers of poultry feed, and how they 
compare to Ellerslie and LPC. In your response, please have regard to their relative 
sizes, product range, price and quality. 
8. If you are an acquirer of poultry feed: 
a. who do you purchase poultry feed from and what factors influence your 
purchasing decision (such as  price, the distance of the supplier to your farm, 
the size and offerings of the supplier and/or quality of the feed)?. 
b. are there any circumstances under which you would switch between 
purchasing organic and non-organic poultry feed? If so, please provide 
further details.   
9. If you are a supplier of poultry feed, please provide an overview of the cost and time 
involved in switching between the supply of: 
a. poultry feed and other animal feeds (i.e. from poultry feed to pig feed or vice 
versa). 
b. organic poultry feed and non-organic poultry feed (and vice versa). 
10. What are the typical trading terms for the purchase of poultry feed (for example 
products supplied, contract length, exclusive supply arrangements). 


 
 
11. What would be required for a company to begin supplying poultry feed? In your 
response, please consider set up costs, regulatory and legal requirements, 
necessary scale, and the time required to enter or expand in these markets. 
Additional information 
12. Please provide any additional information or comments that you consider relevant to 
the ACCC’s consideration of the Proposed Acquisition. 
 
  
