 
 
Land of the Gadigal people of the Eora Nation
Level 27, 135 King Street
Sydney NSW 2000
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
Tel 02 9230 9133
www.accc.gov.au
 
Our ref: 
IM-72671 
3 September 2024 
 
 
Dear Interested Party  
Re: ACCC seeking your views: Viva Energy’s proposed acquisition of LOC  
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on the 
proposed acquisition of the remaining 50 percent interest from New World Corporation 
(NWC) in LOC Global Pty Ltd (LOC) by Viva Energy Australia Pty Ltd (Viva Energy) (the 
Proposed Acquisition).  
LOC is a joint venture established in December 2019 utilising the retail assets of Liberty Oil 
Holdings Pty Ltd. LOC and its subsidiaries currently operate (or grant rights to commission 
agents to operate) 105 Liberty retail fuel and convenience sites across all states and 
territories in Australia (excluding Tasmania), with plans for approximately an additional 21 
pipeline sites. Viva Energy and LOC overlap in the supply of fuel and convenience retail 
across all states and territories in Australia (excluding Tasmania).  
In connection with the Proposed Acquisition, Viva Energy has: 
a) offered to divest 12 LOC retail fuel and convenience sites across South Australia, 
Victoria and Northern Territory (proposed divestiture) to NWC (or a related entity), 
b) proposed NWC (or a related entity) independently operate and control at least 14 
additional LOC sites in New South Wales, the Northern Territory, Queensland, 
Victoria and Western Australia.   
Following the Proposed Acquisition, it is proposed that NWC (or a related entity) will 
independently operate and control at least 26 sites (Proposed NWC Sites).                                             
Further details are provided at Attachment A.  
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact that the Proposed Acquisition would 
have on competition. In particular, we are seeking your views on:  
• 
Viva Energy and LOC’s roles in retail fuel price competition in local areas where they 
compete, and in metropolitan operating price cycles  
• 
the extent to which LOC is a vigorous and effective competitor  
• 
whether the Proposed Acquisition would be likely to reduce price competition in 
local, regional and/or metropolitan areas  
• 
Viva Energy’s proposed divestiture, and  
• 
the extent to which NWC’s ownership and control of the Proposed NWC Sites would 
enable it to act as a competitive constraint.  


 
 
2
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B. This matter is public 
and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested.  
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the Proposed Acquisition is in section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market.  
Please provide your response by 5pm AEST on 17 September 2024 via email to 
mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: Submission re: Viva Energy / LOC. If you require more 
time to respond, please let us know. 
If you would like to arrange a time to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any 
questions about this letter, please contact mergers@accc.gov.au. Updates regarding the 
ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public Mergers Register at ACCC 
mergers register. 
 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC treats sensitive information it receives during a merger review as confidential, 
and will not publish your submission. We will not disclose submissions to third parties 
(except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom 
of information legislation or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of 
the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to disclose 
confidential information, we will notify you in advance where possible so that you have an 
opportunity to be heard. Therefore please clearly indicate if any information you provide is 
confidential. Our Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on 
confidentiality. 
 
 
Yours sincerely  
 
Morag Bond 
General Manager 
Merger Investigations  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
3
Attachment A – Overview of the merger parties and the Proposed Acquisition 
 
Viva Energy 
 
Viva Energy, through its wholly owned subsidiaries, conducts downstream fuel refining, 
importing, distribution and marketing in Australia. It is the exclusive supplier of Shell-
branded fuels and lubricants in Australia, controls and operates:  
- 
a refinery in Geelong 
- 
a national import, storage and distribution network. It is active as a primary 
wholesale fuel supplier and commercial fuel supplier in every Australian state and 
territory, and 
- 
approximately 920 service stations across Australia under the Coles Express/Reddy 
Express and On the Run (Viva Energy completed the acquisition of On the Run              
on 28 March 2024).  
 
Viva Energy wholly acquired Liberty’s wholesale operation (Liberty Oil Holdings Pty Ltd) 
following a 50 percent acquisition in 2014, and the remaining interest in 2019.   
 
LOC 
 
LOC Global Pty Ltd (LOC) is currently owned 50% by Viva Energy and 50% by New World 
Corporation Pty Limited (NWC). It is a joint venture established in December 2019 utilising 
the retail assets of Liberty Oil Holdings Pty Ltd.  
 
LOC and its subsidiaries currently operate (or grant rights to commission agents to operate) 
105 Liberty sites across all states and territories in Australia (excluding Tasmania), and 
approximately 21 pipeline sites. LOC considers itself to be ‘the original fuel discounter’ with 
‘premium quality fuels and competitive pricing’.  
 
NWC 
 
NWC is a joint venture between entities associated with two individuals, David Goldberger 
and David Wieland. Following the proposed acquisition, NWC (or a related entity) will own 
and control the fuel stock across at least 26 proposed divestiture and waiver sites, with 
Commission Agents1 operating the individual locations.   
 
Areas of overlap  
 
Viva Energy and LOC overlap in the supply of retail fuel across metropolitan and/or regional 
locations in local markets across South Australia, Victoria, Western Australia, New South 
Wales, Queensland and Northern Territory. 
 
The Proposed Acquisition  
 
Viva Energy proposes to acquire NWC’s 50% shareholding in LOC, following which Viva 
Energy will take full control of the LOC retail fuel and convenience business. The proposed 
acquisition includes 90 active retail fuel sites and 10 pipeline sites, for a total of 100 sites.  
 
 
 
1 Commission Agents are given a licence to occupy and operate a location under a particular brand, but the fuel provider will 
retain ownership and control of the fuel stock and pricing to retail customers.  


 
 
4
Proposed NWC Sites  
 
Viva Energy proposes to divest 12 LOC sites to NWC (or a related entity), as listed in Table 1. 
 
 
Table 1: List of retail sites Viva Energy proposes to divest  
 
 
Location  
Site Address  
1 
LOC Stuart Park  
34-36 Stuart Hwy, Stuart Park NT 0820  
2 
LOC Windsor Gardens  
386 North East Rd, Windsor Gardens SA 
3  
LOC Marion  
734 Marion Rd, Marion SA 5043 
4 
LOC Blair Athol  
382 Main North Rd, Blair Athol SA 5084 
5 
LOC Pooraka  
226 Bridge Rd, Pooraka SA 5095 
6 
LOC Edinburgh North  
225 Womma Rd, Edinburgh North SA 5113 
7 
LOC Taperoo  
457-459 Victoria Rd, Taperoo SA 5017 
8  
LOC Port Adelaide Clare St  
11-19 Clare St, Port Adelaide SA 5015 
9  
LOC Nailsworth  
129 Main North Rd, Nailsworth SA 5083 
10  LOC Clearview  
232-236 Hampstead Rd, Clearview SA 5085 
11 
LOC Kilmore  
1-3 Sydney St, Kilmore VIC 3764 
12  LOC Moe  
96 Moore St, Moe VIC 3825 
 
 
Viva Energy also proposes that NWC (or a related entity) independently operate and control 
at least 14 waiver sites currently located across New South Wales, the Northern Territory, 
Queensland, Victoria and Western Australia. The ACCC understands that the details of these 
sites have not yet been settled and may seek further feedback from market participants 
regarding any competition concerns at a later stage.  
 
If the ACCC approves NWC (or a related entity) as the approved purchaser for the divestiture 
sites, NWC (or the related entity) would, post-acquisition, operate all sites in Table 1 in 
addition to waiver sites, as Proposed NWC Sites.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
5
Attachment B – List of questions 
 
1. If you are involved in the fuel industry, please describe your business or organisation and 
explain your interest in the proposed acquisition, including any commercial 
relationship(s) with Viva Energy, LOC and/or NWC. 
2. If you are not involved in the fuel industry, please explain your interest in the proposed 
acquisition. If you are writing as an individual, please indicate the suburb or region in 
which you reside and/or generally purchase fuel. 
Competition between fuel retailers 
3. Please address the closeness of competition between Viva Energy (including Coles 
Express/Reddy Express and OTR sites) and LOC for the retail supply of fuel. Relevant 
factors may include geographic areas of supply, product ranges, non-fuel offerings, and 
their response to each other’s pricing. Please provide specific examples where possible. 
4. Fuel prices in large Australian cities tend to be cyclical. A typical price cycle involves a 
sharp increase in retail petrol prices over a relatively small number of days (the price 
increase phase), followed by a gradual decline in price over a longer period, up to a few 
weeks or more (the price decrease phase). Please comment on how competition 
between metropolitan fuel retailers in the price increase and decrease phases might 
change as a result of the proposed acquisition. For example, do you expect any changes 
in fuel retailers’ pricing behaviour over a price cycle in Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth or 
Melbourne as a result of the proposed acquisition? 
5. How important is price compared to other features offered by petrol retailers (e.g., brand, 
location, range of fuels, convenience offering, on-site facilities) in driving customer 
choice of petrol retailers? 
6. Please provide any comments regarding the likely effect of the proposed acquisition on 
competition in particular local geographic areas. In doing so, please make reference to 
the extent of competition Viva Energy sites (including Coles Express/Reddy Express and 
OTR sites) are likely to face from other retail service station sites post-acquisition in 
each local geographical area in which you consider there may be an issue. For example, 
do you expect Viva Energy to be able to increase fuel prices in a local geographical area 
as a result of the proposed acquisition? Please provide specific examples where 
possible.  
Barriers to entry and expansion  
7. Please identify potential entrants to the retail supply of fuel in local markets and/or 
across larger metropolitan or regional areas. Please address the likelihood of such entry, 
including consideration of factors such as:  
a) economies of scale and the minimum efficient scale of market entry for a retail fuel 
chain  
b) cost of market entry 
c) timeframe for market entry  
d) any regulatory requirements, such as environmental or planning regulations  
e) access to key inputs or distribution channels.  


 
 
6
 
Questions about the proposed divestiture 
8. Please explain why Viva Energy’s proposed divestiture would or would not fully address 
any competition concerns you have in relation to the Proposed Acquisition, including in 
relation to individual local areas and Adelaide.  
Questions about the Proposed NWC Sites  
9. Please explain whether NWC’s (or a related entity’s) ownership and control of the 
Proposed NWC Sites would enable it to competitively constrain Viva Energy sites.   
Other questions 
10. Please provide any additional information or comments, or identify other competition issues, 
that you consider relevant to the ACCC’s consideration of the Proposed Acquisition. 
 
