Page 1 of 7 
 
Public Competition Assessment 
21 January 2025 
Viva Energy - proposed acquisition of LOC Global Pty Ltd   
 
The ACCC’s decision 
1. 
On 12 December 2024, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission 
announced its decision not to oppose the proposed acquisition by Viva Energy 
Australia Pty Ltd (Viva Energy) of the remaining 50% interest in LOC Global Pty 
Ltd (LOC) from New World Corporation Pty Limited (NWC) (the proposed 
acquisition) after accepting a court-enforceable undertaking from Viva Energy, 
NWC and LOC (the Undertaking).  
2. 
The Undertaking requires Viva Energy to divest 14 retail fuel sites across  
South Australia, Victoria, Queensland, and the Northern Territory to Solo Oil 
Corporation (Solo), a wholly owned subsidiary of NWC. Viva Energy also 
proposes that Solo (or a related entity) independently operate and control at 
least 13 additional “waiver” sites currently located across New South Wales, the 
Northern Territory, Queensland, Victoria and Western Australia. These waiver 
sites were commercially negotiated and did not form a substantive part of the 
ACCC’s assessment of the proposed acquisition.  
3. 
The ACCC considers that the proposed acquisition, in the absence of the 
Undertaking, is likely to substantially lessen competition in contravention of 
section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the Act). Section 50 
prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of 
substantially lessening competition in any market. The ACCC considers that the 
Undertaking sufficiently addresses the competition concerns such that the 
proposed acquisition is unlikely to contravene section 50 of the Act.  
4. 
The ACCC considered the competitive effects of the proposed acquisition in the 
following areas:  
• 
local areas (typically up to a 3-5km radius in metropolitan areas and a 
10km radius in regional areas) for the retail supply of fuel in areas of 
overlap 
• 
the wholesale supply of fuel in South Australia (focusing on Adelaide). 
5. 
The ACCC also considered metropolitan-wide effects in the retail supply of fuel, 
particularly impacts on the petrol price cycle.  


 
Page 2 of 7 
6. 
In the absence of the Undertaking, the ACCC considers that the proposed 
acquisition would raise competition concerns in certain local areas in Adelaide, 
Darwin, regional Queensland, and regional Victoria where LOC and Viva Energy 
compete closely and where there are few remaining competitors to constrain 
Viva Energy from profitably increasing prices or decreasing service quality. 
7. 
This Public Competition Assessment outlines reasons for the decision by the 
ACCC. Please note that this and other public competition assessments are 
subject to the following qualifications: 
• 
The ACCC considers each transaction on a case-by-case basis and so the 
analysis and decision outlined in one assessment will not necessarily 
reflect the ACCC’s view of another transaction. 
• 
As assessments are relatively brief and do not refer to confidential 
information, assessments do not necessarily set out all of the issues and 
information considered by the ACCC.  
The parties and the transaction 
The acquirer: Viva Energy 
8. 
Viva Energy through its wholly owned subsidiaries, conducts downstream fuel 
refining, importing, wholesaling, distribution and marketing in Australia. 
9. 
Viva Energy controls and operates:  
• 
a refinery in Geelong  
• 
a national import, storage and distribution network. Viva Energy is active in 
the resale and distribution of wholesale fuel in every Australian state and 
territory, and 
• 
approximately 920 service stations across Australia under the Coles 
Express/Reddy Express and On the Run (OTR) brands.  
10. 
Viva Energy is also the exclusive supplier of Shell branded fuels and lubricants 
in Australia. Viva Energy wholly acquired Liberty’s wholesale operation (Liberty 
Oil Holdings Pty Ltd) following a 50 per cent acquisition in 2014, and the 
remaining interest in 2019.    
The target: LOC 
11. 
LOC is a joint venture established in December 2019 utilising the retail assets of 
Liberty Oil Holdings Pty Ltd. LOC is currently owned 50% by Viva Energy and 
50% by NWC. LOC and its subsidiaries currently operate (or grant rights to 
commission agents to operate) 105 Liberty sites across all states and territories 
in Australia (excluding Tasmania), with approximately 21 sites under 
development.  
Purchaser of the Divestiture Business: Solo (NWC) 
12. 
Solo Oil Corporation (Solo) is a wholly owned subsidiary of NWC. NWC is a joint 
venture between entities associated with two individuals, David Goldberger and 
David Wieland. Following the proposed divestiture, Solo (or a related entity) will 
own and control the fuel stock and retail pricing across the 14 divestiture sites 


 
Page 3 of 7 
and approximately 13 waiver sites, with Commission Agents operating the 
individual locations.  
The transaction 
13. 
Viva Energy is proposing to acquire the remaining 50% shareholder interest in 
LOC pursuant to a put and call option deed executed by the parties on  
1 December 2019, with NWC exercising its put option.  
14. 
The proposed acquisition is subject to approval under the Foreign Acquisitions 
and Takeovers Act 1975.  
Market inquiries 
15. 
The ACCC conducted market inquiries with a range of industry participants, 
including competitors, customers, industry bodies and other interested parties.  
16. 
The ACCC consulted on the potential competition issues associated with the 
proposed acquisition and obtained confidential information and documents from 
the merger parties.  
17. 
The ACCC also conducted targeted market consultation on the proposed 
divestiture. 
Industry background 
18. 
Australia’s fuel industry consists of three broad levels – the import of refined fuel 
and the domestic refining of crude oil (primary wholesale), resale and distribution 
of wholesale fuel (secondary wholesale), and retail supply.  
19. 
Fuel sold in Australia is either refined from crude oil at refiners based in Australia 
or imported as a finished product from overseas refineries.  
20. 
There are currently two refineries operating in Australia producing fuel: 
• 
Viva Energy’s Geelong refinery (Victoria) 
• 
Ampol's Lytton refinery (Queensland). 
21. 
Refined fuel is also imported by wholesalers including Viva Energy, Ampol, BP, 
Chevron, Mobil, Glencore, United, IOR and Park Petroleum. 
Primary wholesalers  
22. 
Refiners and many importers of fuel are primary wholesalers. In South Australia 
there are 5 primary wholesalers with import terminal facilities: Ampol (in 
Adelaide), BP (in Adelaide), ExxonMobil (in Adelaide), Viva Energy (in Adelaide 
and Port Lincoln) and IOR (at Port Bonython, diesel only).  
23. 
Viva Energy uses Liberty’s wholesale operation (Liberty Oil Holdings Pty Ltd, 
which is 100% owned by Viva Energy) to undertake secondary wholesale 
resupply/distribution to customers.   
24. 
In reaching this conclusion, the ACCC noted various recent changes in Adelaide, 
including: 


 
Page 4 of 7 
(a) BP’s acquisition of X-Convenience in 2024 
(b) the divestiture of 24 Coles Express Adelaide sites to Chevron in 2024, and 
(c) expiry of existing fuel supply agreements.  
25. 
The ACCC did not consider that there would be substantial changes to Viva 
Energy’s wholesale arrangements post-acquisition. The ACCC did consider that 
there would continue to be contestable wholesale volumes in Adelaide. 
Retailers  
26. 
Service stations supply fuel to retail customers. They can be: 
• 
Sites owned and operated by primary wholesalers, where the primary 
wholesalers set the retail prices 
• 
Primary wholesaler branded but independently owned and operated sites, 
where typically the independent operator sets the retail prices  
• 
Independently owned and/or operated sites, with independent branding, 
which range from large independent chains to single-site operations.  
27. 
In addition to Viva Energy and LOC, retailers in include Ampol, EG Group, BP, 
United, Perrys, AM/PM, Costco and a range of other retailers. Some of these are 
vertically integrated with wholesale fuel businesses. 
Areas of overlap 
28. 
Viva Energy and LOC overlap in the retail supply of fuel across South Australia, 
Victoria, Western Australia, New South Wales, Queensland and the Northern 
Territory.  
29. 
The ACCC assessed the likely competitive effects of the proposed acquisition on 
these markets from a number of perspectives but considered that it was not 
necessary to precisely define the scope of relevant markets.  
Competition analysis 
30. 
The ACCC considered competition effects in the:  
• 
retail supply of fuel in Adelaide, Darwin, regional Queensland, and regional 
Victoria, including  
o 
horizontal co-ordinated effects in fuel retailing in Adelaide 
o 
horizontal unilateral effects in local areas where Viva Energy and 
LOC overlap 
• 
wholesale supply of fuel in South Australia (focussing on Adelaide).   
Competition analysis - retail fuel supply 
Horizontal co-ordinated effects  
31. 
The ACCC considered whether the proposed acquisition may have the effect of 
resulting in or increasing coordination among fuel retailers in Adelaide, 
manifesting as changes in price cycles that on balance harmed consumers. The 


 
Page 5 of 7 
ACCC and the merger parties identified Viva Energy as generally pricing above 
market average retail prices, and LOC as generally pricing below average.  
32. 
The ACCC considered that with the proposed upfront divestiture of 101 sites in 
Adelaide, Viva Energy would only be adding a de minimus number of sites to its 
existing Adelaide network, which would be unlikely to substantially lessen 
competition as a result of coordination. As such, the ACCC’s review focussed on 
possible unilateral effects in local areas.  
Local areas of overlap  
33. 
While Viva Energy and LOC overlap in the supply of retail fuel across Australia, 
the ACCC was concerned regarding the supply of retail fuel in certain local areas 
in Adelaide, Darwin, regional Queensland, and regional Victoria. The ACCC’s 
review focused on these local areas.  
34. 
Market participants expressed concern that the proposed acquisition would 
remove LOC as a low-cost fuel service provider and source of competitive 
constraint on Viva Energy which may give Viva Energy the ability to profitably 
increase retail fuel prices and/or reduce service offering in local areas of overlap.  
35. 
In each of the local areas of concern, the starting point for the ACCC’s local area 
analysis of metropolitan sites included consideration of: 
• 
The concentration of sites up to a 3-5km radius around each Viva Energy 
site 
• 
The volumes of fuel sold at each site (by the merger parties)  
• 
Local features such as traffic flows, geography, site accessibility, site 
offerings, characteristics of remaining competing sites, and other 
indicators.  
36. 
Accordingly, the boundaries of each relevant local area varied in each case.  
37. 
For regional areas, the ACCC considered a 10km radius around each Viva 
Energy owned and operated site as a starting point and considered similar 
features to those identified above for metropolitan sites.  
38. 
For each site, the ACCC considered the number of remaining competitors and 
the combined market share by site numbers, and a range of other factors 
affecting competition. The ACCC also considered the pricing roles of competing 
retailers, and whether, post-acquisition, there would remain low-cost fuel 
providers in local areas of overlap. In areas where most divestiture sites were 
proposed, there would be less than 3 remaining competing retailers, and the 
market share of Viva Energy would be high, typically above 50%.  
Adelaide  
 
1  
Viva Energy initially offered to divest 9 of its 14 retail sites in Adelaide. However, the number of 
sites to be divested increased to 10 in response to concerns raised by the ACCC following 
consultation with market participants. 


 
Page 6 of 7 
39. 
The ACCC concluded that, the proposed acquisition would have the effect, or be 
likely to have the effect, of substantially lessening competition in the supply of 
retail fuel in the following 10 local areas in Adelaide: 
a. 
Windsor Gardens  
b. 
Marion  
c. 
Blair Athol 
d. 
Pooraka  
e. 
Edinburgh North  
f. 
Taperoo  
g. 
Port Adelaide 
h. 
Nailsworth  
i. 
Clearview 
j. 
Smithfield Plains   
40. 
In respect of the local areas of Beverley, Camden Park and Seaford, the ACCC 
also considered a range of factors, including the pricing roles of remaining 
competitors in the local area, characteristics of local sites, local traffic flow and 
mobility data, to identify relevant geographic boundaries and ultimately 
considered that sufficient constraints were available post-acquisition.  
Darwin (Stuart Park), Regional Victoria (Kilmore and Moe) and Regional Queensland 
(Goondiwindi) 
41. 
The ACCC also found that, the proposed acquisition would have the effect, or be 
likely to have the effect, of substantially lessening competition in the retail supply 
of fuel in Stuart Park in the Northern Territory, Kilmore and Moe in regional 
Victoria, and Goondiwindi in regional Queensland. In each of these local areas, 
the ACCC considered that the parties compete closely and that there may be 
few remaining competitors to constrain Viva Energy from profitably increasing 
prices or decreasing service quality.  
Undertakings 
42. 
In order to address the ACCC’s competition concerns outlined above, Viva 
Energy, NWC, and LOC (the signatories) offered the Undertaking pursuant to 
section 87B of the Act.  
43. 
Pursuant to the Undertaking, the signatories commit to divest 14 retail fuel sites 
(located in Adelaide, Darwin, regional Victoria and regional Queensland) (the 
Divestiture Business) to Solo (a wholly owned subsidiary of NWC) prior to or at 
the same time as completion of Viva Energy’s proposed acquisition of LOC. 
44. 
Viva Energy initially offered to divest 12 retail sites. However, the number of sites 
to be divested increased to 14 (an increase of 1 in Adelaide and 1 in regional 
Queensland) in response to concerns raised by the ACCC following consultation 
with market participants.  
45. 
The ACCC considers that the sale of the Divestiture Business to Solo prior to or 
at the same time as completion of the proposed acquisition will likely result in the 


 
Page 7 of 7 
establishment of Solo as a viable, effective, stand-alone, independent and long-
term competitor for the supply of retail fuel in a number of local areas across 
Australia.  
46. 
A copy of the Undertaking is available on the ACCC public informal merger 
reviews register and section 87B undertakings register.  
Conclusion 
47. 
Based on the above analysis, the ACCC concluded that the proposed acquisition 
of LOC by Viva Energy, in the absence of the Undertaking, would have the effect 
or likely effect of substantially lessening competition in the supply of fuel in local 
markets in Adelaide and in certain local areas in Darwin, regional Queensland 
and regional Victoria.   
48. 
However, the ACCC considers that the Undertaking addresses these 
competition concerns, such that, with the Undertaking, the Proposed Acquisition 
would not have the effect, nor be likely to have the effect of substantially 
lessening competition in any market. 
