 
 
 
Public Competition Assessment 
18 December 2006 
Origin Energy Limited - proposed acquisition of Sun Gas 
 
Introduction 
1. 
On 9 August 2006, Origin Energy Limited (Origin) provided a submission to the 
Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) seeking informal 
clearance to acquire both Sun Retail and Sun Gas. 
2. 
The ACCC decided not to oppose the acquisition of Sun Retail on 11 October 
2006.  Origin subsequently acquired Sun Retail.  
3. 
In relation to Sun Gas, on 11 October 2006 the ACCC advised Origin that, on the 
basis of its preliminary assessment, it considered that the proposed acquisition 
would be likely to substantially lessen competition in the relevant markets.  No 
announcement of the decision of 11 October 2006 was made because Origin 
indicated publicly from the outset that it was prepared to contemplate offering 
undertakings in relation to the acquisition of Sun Gas if the ACCC considered 
there to be competition concerns.  The ACCC and Origin subsequently engaged 
in discussions regarding possible undertakings. 
4. 
On 27 November 2006, the Queensland Government announced that AGL was 
the winning bidder for Sun Gas.  In light of this announcement, discussions 
between the ACCC and Origin Energy Limited regarding possible undertakings 
were discontinued. The purpose of Public Competition Assessments is to advise 
the market as to the ACCC’s consideration on certain matters. 
5. 
The ACCC made its decision on the basis of the information provided by the 
merger parties and information arising from its market inquiries. This Public 
Competition Assessment outlines the basis on which the ACCC has reached its 
decision on the proposed transaction, subject to confidentiality considerations. 
Public Competition Assessment 
6. 
To provide an enhanced level of transparency and procedural fairness in its 
decision making process, the ACCC issues a Public Competition Assessment for 
all transaction proposals where: 
 a merger is rejected; 


Origin Energy Limited - proposed acquisition of Sun Gas 
-2- 
 a merger is subject to enforceable undertakings; 
 the merger parties seek such disclosure; or 
 a merger is approved but raises important issues that the ACCC considers 
should be made public. 
7. 
This Public Competition Assessment has been issued because the ACCC 
considered that Origin Energy Limited’s proposed acquisition of Sun Gas raised 
significant competition concerns and an undertaking would be required.    
8. 
By issuing Public Competition Assessments, the ACCC aims to provide the 
market with a better understanding of the ACCC's analysis of various markets 
and the associated merger and competition issues. It also alerts the market to the 
circumstances where the ACCC’s assessment of the competition conditions in 
particular markets is changing, or likely to change, because of developments.  
9. 
Each Public Competition Assessment is specific to the particular transaction 
under review by the ACCC. While some transaction proposals may involve the 
same or related markets, it should not be assumed that the analysis and decision 
outlined in one Public Competition Assessment will be conclusive of the ACCC’s 
view in respect of other transaction proposals, as each matter will be considered 
on its own merits.  
10. 
Many of the ACCC’s decisions will involve consideration of both non-
confidential and confidential information provided by the merger parties and 
market participants. In order to maintain the confidentiality of particular 
information, Public Competition Assessments do not contain any confidential 
information or its sources. While the ACCC aims to provide an appropriately 
detailed explanation of the basis for the ACCC decision, where this is not 
possible, maintaining confidentiality will be the ACCC's paramount concern, and 
accordingly a Public Competition Assessment may not definitively explain all 
issues and the ACCC’s analysis of such issues. 
The parties 
The acquirer: Origin Energy Limited 
11. 
Origin is a public company with interests in electricity, natural gas and LPG 
retailing, LPG production and distribution, electricity generation and the 
management of natural gas networks.  
12. 
Origin is one of only two retailers of natural gas to ‘non-contestable’ customers 
in south-east Queensland.1  It is proposed that Full Retail Contestability (FRC) be 
introduced on 1 July 2007.  
The target: Sun Gas 
                                               
1 Non-contestable gas customers in Queensland are those that use less than a prescribed amount (1 TJ of 
gas) per year. 


Origin Energy Limited - proposed acquisition of Sun Gas 
-3- 
13. 
Sun Gas is the gas retailing arm of Energex and, prior to its sale to AGL, was 
Government-owned. Sun Gas supplies gas in Queensland to residential customers 
and large industrial users as well as to a small number of customers in Victoria 
and New South Wales.  
14. 
The vast majority of Sun Gas’ customers are located to the south of the Brisbane 
River in the Allgas distribution area. 
15. 
As can be seen from the above descriptions, Origin and Sun Gas are the only two 
retailers of natural gas to ‘non-contestable’ customers in south-east Queensland. 
Market Definition 
16. 
The ACCC considered the relevant market was the market for the retailing of gas 
in south east Queensland. The ACCC noted the possibility that the market may be 
geographically wider, but decided that it was appropriate, in this instance, to 
confine the market to the south east Queensland region due to the presence of a 
number of significant barriers to retailing gas in this region, specifically: 
a. 
the low levels of gas uptake in south-east Queensland; 
b. 
the need to overcome positions of incumbency; and  
c. 
the need to obtain sufficient supplies of gas on the Roma to Brisbane 
Pipeline (RBP), which was capacity constrained. 
Timing 
17. 
The following table outlines the timeline of key events in this matter. 
 
Date 
Event 
09-Aug-2006 
 
04-Sep-2006 
27-Sep-2006 
11-Oct-2006 
 
12-Oct-2006 
 
27-Nov-2006 
 
ACCC commenced review under the Merger Review Process Guidelines. 
Market inquiries commenced 
Closing date for submissions from interested parties 
ACCC requested further information from Origin. Timeline suspended. 
ACCC advised Origin that it had serious competition concerns 
& an undertaking would be required. 
ACCC gave Origin further time to make corporate decisions and 
seek information. 
AGL announced as winning bidder for Sun Gas. Discussions between the 
ACCC and Origin re possible undertakings were discontinued. 
 
Market inquiries 
18. 
The ACCC conducted market inquiries with a range of industry participants, 
including competitors, potential competitors, input suppliers, industry bodies, 
other regulatory agencies and other interested parties.   


Origin Energy Limited - proposed acquisition of Sun Gas 
-4- 
19. 
Horizontal and vertical integration competition concerns were raised by a number 
of market participants.  In particular, market participants were concerned that if 
Origin acquired Sun Gas, it would have 100% of the non-contestable gas 
customers in south east Queensland in the period leading up to and beyond FRC.  
Further, market participants were concerned that even if Origin gave an 
undertaking to divest Sun Gas, the ability of the acquirer to prepare for FRC 
might be limited given the short period before FRC, leading to competitive 
detriment.  
Competition analysis 
20. 
The ACCC noted that the acquisition would have been likely to result in an 
increase in vertical integration between Origin's gas producing and gas retailing 
functions.  The ACCC considered that competition in production and retailing 
was the critical issue in analysing whether concerns arose from this increase in 
vertical integration.  
21. 
It was found that competition from other suppliers existed at the production level. 
However, the only pipeline that transports natural gas into south east Queensland 
is the Roma to Brisbane Pipeline (RBP). Market inquiries revealed that the RBP 
was fully constrained with no spare capacity and was likely to remain so for a 
considerable amount of time. 
22. 
Post-acquisition, Origin would have been the only retailer of gas to residential 
customers in the relevant market. Due to the capacity constraints being 
experienced by the RBP, the ACCC considered the prospect of new entry that 
would be capable of constraining the merged entity was not very likely. As such, 
the ACCC had serious competition concerns in this regard. 
23. 
The ACCC also noted that Origin and Sun Gas have both been very significant 
retailers of gas to industrial customers that took gas from the RBP. Post merger, 
the ACCC was concerned that the likelihood of existing and new entry 
constraining the merged entity was low, again due to capacity constraints on the 
RBP. 
24. 
The ACCC took into consideration the likelihood that full retail contestability 
would occur on 1 July 2007 and considered that the maintenance of a competitive 
dynamic in this context was critical.  
25. 
The ACCC noted that Origin and Sun Gas also retailed gas to large customers not 
connected to the RBP. Market inquiries revealed that in these areas it was likely 
that the merged entity would have faced sufficient competition from a number of 
other gas retailers and producers such that competition concerns were unlikely to 
arise.  


Origin Energy Limited - proposed acquisition of Sun Gas 
-5- 
26. 
The ACCC also noted that the proposed acquisition would have increased the 
vertical integration between Origin's gas retailing operations and its position as 
the operator of the natural gas distribution networks owned by Envestra Limited.  
In addition Origin is a significant shareholder in Envestra. However, because 
Origin was already a vertically integrated network operator and retailer, the 
proposed acquisition would have been unlikely to have given Origin any 
additional ability to engage in anticompetitive behaviour. 
Undertakings 
27. 
At the commencement of the ACCC's assessment of the matter, Origin raised the 
possibility of providing undertakings in relation to the proposed acquisition of 
Sun Gas. The ACCC and Origin subsequently engaged in significant discussions 
regarding undertakings. During the course of these discussions, the ACCC had 
regard to the need for Sun Gas to adequately prepare for FRC on 1 July 2007 and 
the level of control that Origin would have had over Sun Gas during the term of 
any hold separate period prior to any divestment. 
Conclusion 
28. 
Discussions regarding the proposed undertakings were discontinued when it was 
announced that AGL had entered into an arrangement to acquire Sun Gas. 
