 
Page 1 of 24 
 
Statement of Issues 
23 May 2024 
Global Payments Australia 1 Pty Ltd – proposed 
acquisition of School Bytes Learning Pty Ltd 
Purpose 
1. 
Global Payments Australia 1 Pty Ltd (Global Payments) proposes to acquire 
School Bytes Learning Pty Ltd (School Bytes) (the proposed acquisition). Global 
Payments’ subsidiary, Sentral Pty Ltd (Sentral), and School Bytes are both 
suppliers of School Administration Software. 
2. 
This Statement of Issues: 
• 
gives the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission’s (ACCC) 
preliminary views on competition issues arising from the proposed 
acquisition 
• 
identifies areas of further inquiry, and 
• 
invites interested parties to submit comments and information to assist 
our assessment of the issues. 
3. 
Statements of Issues do not refer to confidential information provided by the 
parties or other market participants and therefore may not fully articulate the 
ACCC’s preliminary position. 
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views 
4. 
In considering the proposed acquisition, the ACCC applies the legal test set out 
in section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the CCA). In general 
terms, section 50 prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to 
have the effect, of substantially lessening competition in any market. 
5. 
The ACCC divides its preliminary views into three categories, 'issues of concern', 
'issues that may raise concerns' and ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’. In this 


Global Payments – proposed acquisition of School Bytes 
 
Page 2 of 24 
Statement of Issues there are two ‘issues of concern’ and one ‘issue that may 
raise concerns’.  
Issues of concern 
6. 
There are several different categories of School Administration Software and 
more information about each category is in paragraph 24 below. The ACCC’s 
competition concerns relate to the supply of Student Administration Software 
and School Management & Operations Software (collectively known as School 
Information Software) and the supply of Student Finance Software. 
7. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in the supply of:  
• 
School Information Software to public schools in NSW, and 
• 
Student Finance Software to public schools in NSW. 
References to public schools include both primary schools (typically, 
Kindergarten to Year 6) and high schools (typically, Years 7-12). 
8. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition is likely to: 
• 
bring the two largest suppliers of School Information Software and Student 
Finance Software to public schools in NSW under common ownership and 
result in a significant increase in concentration, noting that:  
• 
Sentral is the largest supplier of School Information Software and 
School Bytes is the largest supplier of Student Finance Software 
• 
Sentral also has a significant share of the supply of Student Finance 
Software, and School Bytes has a significant share of the supply of 
School Information Software, and 
• 
Sentral and School Bytes are two (out of only three) suppliers in NSW 
that offer a comprehensive range of School Administration Software, 
and with their existing relationships with schools, they can cross-sell 
other categories of software. 
• 
reduce competition between Sentral and School Bytes, who are:  
• 
close competitors in respect of the supply of School Information 
Software to primary schools, and are becoming closer competitors in 
respect of the supply of School Information Software to high 
schools, and 
• 
each other’s closest competitor in respect of the supply of Student 
Finance Software to both primary and high schools. 
• 
reduce the competitive constraints of a vigorous and effective competitor 
in the form of School Bytes. 


Global Payments – proposed acquisition of School Bytes 
 
Page 3 of 24 
9. 
The ACCC is concerned that despite the presence of alternative School 
Information Software and Student Finance Software suppliers, they have only 
achieved marginal growth and are unlikely to impose a significant competitive 
constraint on Sentral and School Bytes post-acquisition. This is particularly so 
considering the first-mover advantages of Sentral and School Bytes, the range of 
their product offerings, and the challenges schools face to switching suppliers. 
10. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that new entry or expansion by existing suppliers 
on a scale sufficient to prevent a substantial lessening of competition in either 
the supply of School Information Software or Student Finance Software to NSW 
public schools appears unlikely, due to the height of barriers to entry and 
expansion.  
11. 
The ACCC notes that there are agreements between School Administration 
Software suppliers and the NSW Department of Education (NSW DoE) that 
contain price increase limitations and minimum service level obligations (Panel 
Agreements). However, these agreements do not address the ACCC’s concerns 
that the proposed acquisition will reduce the competitive constraint exerted by 
an effective competitor. Further, the ACCC is concerned that the proposed 
acquisition will weaken price competition below the price caps during the term 
of the Panel Agreements, and when the Panel Agreements are re-negotiated, the 
price caps may be set higher than would occur in a future without the proposed 
acquisition. 
12. 
The ACCC notes that Global Payments intends to operate Sentral and School 
Bytes separately, at least for the duration of School Bytes’ Panel Agreement, with 
both businesses retaining their own staff and products. However, the ACCC is 
concerned that common ownership will reduce the commercial incentives for 
Sentral and School Bytes to compete on price and non-price factors, and there is 
some uncertainty regarding the ability of Global Payments to implement and 
maintain a complete and effective separation. The ACCC’s preliminary view is 
that the separate operation of Sentral and School Bytes, while under the 
common ownership of Global Payments, does not sufficiently mitigate the 
competition concerns that arise from the proposed acquisition. 
Issue that may raise concerns 
13. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition may lead to a 
substantial lessening of competition in the supply of School Information 
Software and/or Student Finance Software to public schools in other Australian 
states or territories. The broad geographic operations of some suppliers 
demonstrates their ability to operate across regions. Sentral currently supplies in 
NSW, Western Australia, Victoria, South Australia, and the Australian Capital 
Territory. The ACCC considers School Bytes could potentially expand its 
operations beyond NSW in the future, including to compete with Sentral. 
14. 
The ACCC is therefore continuing to investigate whether the proposed 
acquisition raises concerns in geographic areas outside NSW.   


Global Payments – proposed acquisition of School Bytes 
 
Page 4 of 24 
Making a submission 
15. 
The ACCC invites submissions from interested parties, particularly on the 
following key issues: 
• 
the closeness of competition between Sentral and School Bytes 
• 
the height of barriers to entry and expansion, including the ability and 
incentives for School Administration Software suppliers to operate across 
regions and different school types 
• 
the ease with which schools can switch School Administration Software 
suppliers 
• 
the countervailing power of the NSW DoE, for example, by easing barriers 
to entry and expansion, and by sponsoring or otherwise supporting entry or 
expansion, and 
• 
the competitive constraint exerted by other School Administration 
Software suppliers on Sentral and School Bytes. 
16. 
Interested parties should provide submissions by 14 June 2024. Responses may 
be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: Submission re: Global 
Payments/School Bytes. If you would like to discuss the matter with ACCC staff 
or have any questions about this Statement of Issues, please email 
mergers@accc.gov.au.  
17. 
The ACCC anticipates making a final decision on 8 August 2024, however, this 
timeline can change. To keep up with possible timing changes and to find 
relevant documents, interested parties should visit the Mergers Register on the 
ACCC's website at www.accc.gov.au/publicregisters/mergers-registers/public-
informal-merger-reviews. 
Confidentiality of submissions 
18. 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We 
will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) 
unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation 
or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the CCA. Where 
the ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, the ACCC will notify 
you in advance where possible so that you may have an opportunity to be heard. 
Therefore, please identify any confidential information that is provided to the 
ACCC. Our Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information 
on confidentiality. 
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’ 
19. 
A Statement of Issues is not a final decision about a proposed acquisition. A 
Statement of Issues outlines the ACCC’s preliminary views and identifies further 
lines of inquiry. 


Global Payments – proposed acquisition of School Bytes 
 
Page 5 of 24 
20. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties 
(including customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to 
ascertain and consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also 
intended to provide the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis 
for making further submissions should they consider it necessary. 
Industry background 
School Administration Software used by public schools in NSW 
21. 
Schools in NSW use School Administration Software that reflects their needs, 
which typically depends on their size, education level (i.e., primary or high) and 
funding status (i.e., public or independent). Public schools must also have 
software that integrates with the NSW DoE’s central school administration 
system to facilitate necessary data transfers. 
22. 
The NSW DoE is responsible for managing more than 2,200 public schools. From 
2012, the NSW DoE centrally procured School Administration Software on behalf 
of all NSW public schools from a third-party supplier, Tribal Group Pty Ltd 
(Tribal). Over time, many schools began to supplement Tribal’s products with 
other software, notably Sentral’s School Information Software, Tes’ Timetabling 
Software, and School Bytes’ Student Finance Software.  
23. 
In November 2022, the NSW DoE established the Administration Marketplace 
Panel for Schools (AMPS) to facilitate the supply of School Administration 
Software to public schools. The NSW DoE has stated that the AMPS is intended 
to save schools time and effort in negotiating and managing contracts with 
suppliers, encourage competition amongst suppliers, and increase product 
innovation and cost savings for schools.1 
24. 
The AMPS distinguishes between five categories of School Administration 
Software. The ACCC notes that some suppliers, including Sentral and School 
Bytes, refer to Student Administration Software and School Management & 
Operations Software collectively as ‘School Information Software'. In respect of 
Student Administration Software, there are core and non-core modules, and 
schools may acquire these modules from the same supplier or different 
suppliers. Core Student Administration Software modules include Attendance, 
Wellbeing, and Academic Reports. Other Student Administration Software 
modules include Behavioural Policy, Curriculum, Event Management, Sport 
Selection. School Management & Operations Software includes School 
Organisation and Medical. 
 
 
1 NSW Department of Education, Interim Annual Report 2023, p 63. 


Global Payments – proposed acquisition of School Bytes 
 
Page 6 of 24 
Table 1: School Administration Software categories on the AMPS 
a) Student Administration 
Software 
School 
Information 
Software 
Collects, stores, uses and reports on 
information about students 
b) School Management & 
Operations Software 
Collects, stores, uses and reports on 
information about staff, school assets and 
resources 
c) Timetabling Software 
Supports specialised algorithms and methods for building and 
optimising class, teacher and resource schedules 
d) Parent/Carer 
Communication & 
Consent Software 
Provides and exchanges information between parents or 
carers and the school, including managing the consent 
process (e.g., for excursions) and other workflows 
e) Student Finance 
Software 
Manages payments and other financial transactions with 
students, parents and carers, as well as records payment 
transactions for reconciliation with the relevant state 
department’s corporate financial solution. 
Source: ACCC, using information from the NSW DoE and Global Payments  
25. 
Each supplier on the AMPS has a Panel Agreement with the NSW DoE setting out 
the terms on which they can provide School Administration Software to public 
schools. Suppliers do not have separate agreements with schools; rather, 
schools place orders with suppliers on the terms set out in that supplier’s Panel 
Agreement. 
26. 
Through a tender process conducted in 2021-2022, the NSW DoE approved 12 
suppliers to be on the AMPS across all categories of School Administration 
Software. One supplier has since terminated its Panel Agreement with the NSW 
DoE and exited the AMPS. Currently: 
• 
for School Information Software, there are 7 suppliers, being Sentral, School 
Bytes, Compass, Hero, Millenium, ImproMation, Educonnex. The ACCC 
understands some suppliers, including School Bytes, do not offer all School 
Information Software modules used by all schools, and 
• 
for Student Finance Software, there are 3 suppliers, being Sentral, School 
Bytes, and Compass.  
27. 
The NSW DoE is currently undertaking a refresh of the AMPS, which has not yet 
concluded, and it may approve additional suppliers to supply one or more 
categories of School Administration Software. 
28. 
Each supplier’s Panel Agreement contains a list of prices for the supplier’s 
products. The supplier can change the list price at any time, provided it does not 
exceed a pre-agreed ‘capped price’. The capped price remains set for the 5-year 
duration of the Panel Agreement and can only be increased for CPI changes or 
with the NSW DoE’s consent. Other pricing terms include: 
• 
An automatic reduction to the capped price to reflect actual prices charged: If 
the highest price a supplier charges schools is lower than the capped price 


Global Payments – proposed acquisition of School Bytes 
 
Page 7 of 24 
for more than 3 months, the capped price is adjusted to reflect that lower 
price.  
• 
A benchmarking process against the broader Australian market: Once every 
12 months, the NSW DoE can appoint an independent benchmarker to 
consider whether a supplier’s rates and prices are competitive with the 
broader Australian market, and if they are not, the NSW DoE can require the 
supplier to adjust their prices accordingly. 
• 
A price parity requirement: The Panel Agreement contains a ‘best price’ 
provision, which requires suppliers to ensure that their capped prices are not 
higher than any price they offer to their other customers in Australia for the 
same (or a similar) product. 
29. 
The Panel Agreement also includes a set of minimum performance levels and 
service standards for suppliers to comply with, such as incident response time, 
work-around solution time, incident resolution time and turnaround time on 
requests from schools.  
30. 
Schools order School Administration Software products via the NSW DoE 
intranet. Schools can request a quote from one or more suppliers and the quote 
given cannot exceed the list price. Suppliers must accept all orders placed and 
are not permitted to supply School Administration Software to NSW public 
schools outside the terms of the Panel Agreement.  
The parties 
The acquirer: Global Payments  
31. 
Global Payments is the Australian subsidiary of Global Payments Inc., a 
payments technology company headquartered in Georgia, USA. 
32. 
Global Payments owns Sentral, which was established in New South Wales in 
1998 and is a supplier of School Administration Software to public and 
independent schools throughout Australia.  
33. 
Sentral supplies Student Administration Software and School Management & 
Operations Software (i.e., School Information Software), Parent/Carer 
Communication & Consent Software, and Student Finance Software to NSW 
public schools. Sentral began supplying School Information Software to NSW 
public schools in 2006 and Student Finance Software to NSW public schools 
from around 2023.  
The target: School Bytes 
34. 
School Bytes is an Australian company, which was established in New South 
Wales in 2015 and is approved under the AMPS to supply Student Administration 
Software and School Management & Operations Software (i.e., School 
Information Software), Parent/Carer Communication & Consent Software, and 
Student Finance Software.  


Global Payments – proposed acquisition of School Bytes 
 
Page 8 of 24 
35. 
School Bytes initially only supplied NSW public schools with Student Finance 
Software, but since around 2023, began supplying School Information Software 
to NSW public primary schools and some School Information Software modules 
to NSW public high schools. School Bytes currently only supplies NSW public 
schools. 
Other industry participants 
36. 
Compass Education Pty Ltd (Compass) was established in Victoria in 2009 and 
supplies School Administration Software to public and independent schools 
throughout Australia. Compass commenced supplying NSW public schools in 
2017 and is approved under the AMPS to supply all five categories of School 
Administration Software. 
37. 
Hero Software For Schools Pty Limited (Hero) is a supplier of School 
Administration Software in New Zealand. It commenced operating in NSW in 
2022 and is approved under the AMPS to supply Student Administration 
Software and Parent/Carer Communication & Consent Software. It also has a 
Student Finance Software product that is widely used in New Zealand and its 
website notes that a Student Finance Software product is ‘coming soon’ to 
NSW.2 
38. 
In addition to Compass and Hero, there are 7 other suppliers approved under the 
AMPS. These suppliers focus on specific categories of School Administration 
Software or only supply to a limited number of schools. 
39. 
The ACCC notes there are other suppliers of School Administration Software 
that are not approved under the AMPS, but supply to NSW independent schools 
and/or supply to schools in other Australian states or territories. The ACCC also 
notes that it is not currently compulsory for NSW public schools to purchase 
software from AMPS-approved suppliers. However, market feedback suggests 
schools rarely contract outside the AMPS. 
The proposed acquisition 
40. 
Global Payments proposes to acquire School Bytes through a 100% share 
purchase. 
41. 
Post-acquisition, Sentral and School Bytes would both be wholly owned 
subsidiaries of Global Payments. Global Payments intends to operate School 
Bytes and Sentral separately, at least for the duration of School Bytes’ existing 
Panel Agreement, with both businesses retaining their own staff and products. 
Future with and without the acquisition  
42. 
In assessing a proposed acquisition under section 50 of the CCA, the ACCC 
considers the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future state of 
competition if the acquisition proceeds (the ’with’ position) to the likely future 
 
 
2 https://our-hero.com/solutions-au/ 


Global Payments – proposed acquisition of School Bytes 
 
Page 9 of 24 
state(s) of competition if the acquisition does not proceed (the ‘without’ 
position), to determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to substantially 
lessen competition in any relevant market. 
43. 
The ACCC is considering whether the future without the proposed acquisition 
could involve: 
• 
School Bytes continuing to operate as an independent entity per the status 
quo, or 
• 
School Bytes being acquired by an alternative purchaser, such as another 
School Administration Software supplier. The ACCC notes that such an 
acquisition may require a separate review by the ACCC to consider its 
competitive effect. 
Areas of current overlap 
44. 
School Information Software: Sentral is the largest supplier of School 
Information Software to NSW public schools and began supplying before the 
establishment of the AMPS. Since the AMPS was established, School Bytes 
launched a School Information Software product, which it supplies to NSW 
public primary schools, as well as some School Information Software modules, 
which it supplies to NSW public high schools.  
45. 
Student Finance: School Bytes is the largest supplier of Student Finance 
Software and began supplying NSW public schools before the establishment of 
the AMPS. Since the AMPS was established, Sentral launched a Student Finance 
Software product specifically for NSW public schools. 
46. 
Parent/Carer Communication & Consent: Both Sentral and School Bytes supply 
Parent/Carer Communication & Consent Software through their School 
Information Software and Student Finance Software products. 
47. 
Neither Sentral nor School Bytes supply Timetabling Software. 
Market definition 
48. 
The ACCC’s starting point for considering which markets will be affected by the 
proposed acquisition is to identify the areas of overlap between the products 
actually or potentially supplied by the merger parties. The ACCC then considers 
other actual or potential suppliers of those products, as well as what other 
products constitute sufficiently close substitutes to provide a significant source 
of constraint on the merged entity. 
49. 
The ACCC is continuing to consider the scope of the relevant markets, but has 
focused its review on the impact of the proposed acquisition on competition for 
the supply of: 
• 
School Information Software to public schools in NSW, and 
• 
Student Finance software to public schools in NSW. 


Global Payments – proposed acquisition of School Bytes 
 
Page 10 of 24 
50. 
The ACCC is also considering whether competition concerns may arise in 
relation to the supply of School Information Software and/or Student Finance 
Software in other Australian states or territories.  
Product dimension 
51. 
School Information Software/Student Finance Software differentiation: From a 
demand-side perspective, School Information Software and Student Finance 
Software have different functions and are not substitutable. Schools demand 
both products to serve different needs, and do not necessarily acquire them 
from the same supplier. From a supply-side perspective, market feedback 
indicates that suppliers of one category cannot quickly shift their operations to 
supply another category, given the cost and time involved in product 
development and becoming approved on the AMPS for that category.  
52. 
The ACCC is considering whether the product dimension could be the supply of 
School Administration Software more broadly because some schools prefer to 
acquire multiple categories from the same supplier. However, as the number of 
School Information Software suppliers and Student Finance Software suppliers 
differs, and the size of the parties in each category is significantly different, the 
ACCC’s preliminary view is that, for the purpose of its competition assessment, 
School Information Software and Student Finance Software should be examined 
separately. 
53. 
Further, the ACCC notes that suppliers of multiple categories appear to have a 
degree of competitive advantage over single category suppliers, in terms of 
being able to cross-sell other categories of software to schools. However, the 
ACCC’s preliminary view is that this does not mean the product dimension 
should be the supply of School Administration Software more broadly. 
54. 
Public/independent school differentiation: For public schools, all School 
Administration Software, including School Information Software and Student 
Finance Software, must comply with the requirements set by the relevant state 
education departments and in the case of NSW, the requirements of the AMPS. 
From a demand-side perspective, NSW public schools can only choose software 
that is specifically tailored to the NSW public school environment. From a 
supply-side perspective, while some suppliers (e.g., Sentral and Compass) 
supply to both public and independent schools, other suppliers (e.g., SchoolworX 
and Xcursion) only or mostly supply to independent schools, and School Bytes 
only supplies to public schools. Market feedback from suppliers indicates that 
the level of customisation required for each customer group means suppliers 
that supply one school type cannot quickly shift to supply another customer 
group.  
55. 
High/primary school differentiation: Market feedback indicates that high 
schools generally require more customisation and more complex functionality 
for School Information Software compared to primary schools, whereas Student 
Finance Software is generally the same for both high schools and primary 
schools. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that high schools and primary schools 
may not fall into separate markets, because depending on the size or needs of 
the specific school, there are some substitution possibilities. From a supply-side 


Global Payments – proposed acquisition of School Bytes 
 
Page 11 of 24 
perspective, many suppliers supply both high schools and primary schools, and 
although some focus on one more than the other, the ACCC considers this can 
be more appropriately considered as product specialisation. However, the ACCC 
will continue to consider the degree of substitution between School Information 
Software used in high schools compared to that used in primary schools.  
Geographic dimension 
56. 
The ACCC will continue to consider the scope of the geographic dimension, but 
its preliminary view is that it is appropriate to focus on the effect or likely effect 
of the proposed acquisition on competition in NSW, where the parties’ 
operations currently overlap. 
57. 
The ACCC understands that the School Administration Software supplied to 
public schools in NSW must be customised to conform with state laws and 
regulations and be capable of interfacing with the NSW DoE’s proprietary 
software. 
58. 
From a demand-side perspective, NSW public schools are not able to switch to 
an interstate supplier if the supplier’s School Administration Software products 
are designed for schools in another state, and do not meet the requirements of 
the AMPS in NSW. Substitution possibilities are therefore confined to those 
suppliers’ whose products comply with the NSW DoE’s requirements. For 
example, School Bytes’ Student Finance Software was designed specifically for 
NSW public schools, and it has been supplied solely to NSW public schools to 
date.  
59. 
From a supply-side perspective, suppliers based in other states are not able to 
quickly shift operations to supply School Administration Software to NSW public 
schools, partly because of the time and costs required to customise software 
and be approved under the AMPS. 
60. 
The ACCC acknowledges that some suppliers in NSW also operate in other 
Australian states and territories, and School Administration Software is typically 
cloud-based, which means it can technically be supplied from anywhere. This 
may suggest that a broader geographic dimension could be appropriate.  
However, market feedback indicates that, to effectively compete and support 
customers in NSW, suppliers need to invest in sales and support staff in that 
state. 
61. 
The ACCC is also considering the likely effect of the proposed acquisition on the 
supply of School Information Software and/or Student Finance Software to 
public schools in other Australian states or territories. Sentral is based in NSW, 
but also supplies software to public schools in Western Australia, Victoria, South 
Australia, and the Australian Capital Territory. The ACCC considers School Bytes 
could potentially expand its operations beyond NSW in the future, including to 
compete with Sentral.  


Global Payments – proposed acquisition of School Bytes 
 
Page 12 of 24 
Questions for market participants 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary views 
about relevant markets. In particular, market participants may wish to comment on: 
• 
the benefits to a NSW public school from acquiring both School Information 
Software and Student Finance Software from the same supplier 
• 
whether a NSW public high school can use a supplier’s School Information 
Software that was originally intended for a NSW public primary school 
• 
estimates of the time and cost involved for: 
o a supplier of School Information Software to NSW public schools to shift 
to supply Student Finance Software to NSW public schools, 
o a supplier of Student Finance Software to NSW public schools to shift to 
supply School Information Software to NSW public schools, 
o a supplier of School Information Software or Student Finance Software to 
NSW independent schools to shift to supply School Information Software 
or Student Finance Software to NSW public schools, 
o a supplier of School Information Software or Student Finance Software to 
NSW public primary schools to shift to supply School Information 
Software or Student Finance Software to NSW public high schools, 
o a supplier of School Information Software in an Australian state or 
territory other than NSW to supply School Information Software to NSW 
public schools, or 
o a supplier of Student Finance Software in an Australian state or territory 
other than NSW to supply Student Finance Software to NSW public 
schools. 
• 
the extent to which the availability of local technical support or local presence by 
the School Administration Software supplier influences a school’s purchasing 
decision. 
Issue of concern: reduction in competition in the supply of 
School Information Software to NSW public schools  
62. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in the supply of School Information Software to 
NSW public schools. The proposed acquisition would combine the two largest 
suppliers of School Information Software to NSW public schools and result in a 
significant increase in concentration. It would also reduce competition between 
Sentral and School Bytes, who the ACCC considers are close competitors in 
relation to primary schools and are becoming closer competitors in relation to 
high schools. 


Global Payments – proposed acquisition of School Bytes 
 
Page 13 of 24 
Significant increase in concentration 
63. 
Sentral is the largest supplier of School Information Software to NSW public 
schools (high and primary), with approximately a two-third share of total supply. 
In 2023, School Bytes launched a School Information Software product primarily 
geared to NSW public primary schools, and it supplies some School Information 
Software modules to NSW public high schools. Since launching its School 
Information Software product, School Bytes has gained about a one-third share 
of supply. 
64. 
Other suppliers of School Information Software to NSW public schools include 
Compass, Hero, Educonnex, Edsmart, ImproMation and Millenium, which 
collectively have less than a 10% share of supply. It is worth noting that some 
schools use multiple School Information Software suppliers (for instance, 
because they purchase School Information Software on a module-by-module 
basis) and therefore these shares add up to greater than 100%. 
65. 
The ACCC considers these shares indicate that there is already a high degree of 
concentration in the supply of School Information Software, with Sentral and 
School Bytes being the largest suppliers by a considerable margin. 
66. 
The ACCC acknowledges that the supply of School Information Software to NSW 
public schools has been undergoing a period of disruption, as schools are 
migrating from Tribal to the AMPS-approved suppliers. This migration is due to 
complete in June 2024. The ACCC understands that many schools have already 
made their purchasing decision, but may be using both Tribal and the AMPS 
supplier during the transition period. Accordingly, the ACCC considers the shares 
are a useful indication of competitive dynamics, particularly as they indicate a 
schools’ purchasing decisions as they move away from Tribal. 
Closeness of competition between the parties  
67. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that Sentral and School Bytes are close 
competitors, for the supply of School Information Software to NSW public 
primary schools. As School Bytes supplies some School Information Software 
modules to high schools, and is likely to continue to develop its products in the 
future, the ACCC considers they are likely to become closer competitors for the 
supply of School Information Software to NSW public high schools as well.  
68. 
Global Payments submits that Sentral and School Bytes’ School Information 
Software offerings are not directly competitive with each other because Sentral’s 
School Information Software is better suited to large high schools and School 
Bytes’ School Information Software is more appropriate for primary schools.  
69. 
The ACCC notes that: 
• 
Sentral and School Bytes both supply a comprehensive School Information 
Software offering to a material number of primary schools in NSW, and 
primary schools consider their products as substitutable. Market feedback 
indicates that since School Bytes launched its School Information Software 
in 2023, many primary schools have switched from Sentral to School Bytes. 


Global Payments – proposed acquisition of School Bytes 
 
Page 14 of 24 
• 
Sentral supplies a comprehensive School Information Software offering to a 
material number of high schools. School Bytes currently supplies high 
schools with non-core Student Administration modules, and a small number 
of high schools with School Management & Operations modules.3  
70. 
The ACCC is continuing to investigate the extent to which Sentral and School 
Bytes’ School Information Software offering is substitutable, and the degree of 
product development required for School Bytes to supply a more comprehensive 
suite of School Information Software that is suitable for high schools. 
71. 
However, the ACCC notes that School Bytes has made public comments that it 
plans to develop core Student Administration Software modules suited to high 
schools in the future, such as period-by-period attendance. The ACCC also 
understands that high schools have proactively approached School Bytes to 
enquire about its School Information Software, and the ACCC’s preliminary view 
is that School Bytes’ expansion to develop and supply more School Information 
Software modules to NSW public high schools would be a reasonable 
progression of its commercial strategy in a future without the proposed 
acquisition.  
72. 
The ACCC further considers that, as many NSW public high schools already use 
School Bytes’ Student Finance Software, and School Bytes’ School Information 
Software product is a popular choice among primary schools, high schools may 
consider switching from Sentral to School Bytes for School Information Software 
if and when School Bytes develops suitable modules, particularly as market 
feedback indicates that some schools have a preference for a ‘one stop shop’.  
73. 
Accordingly, the ACCC is concerned the proposed acquisition will reduce 
competition between Sentral and School Bytes in the supply of School 
Information Software to NSW public primary schools, and will reduce emerging 
competition between them in the supply of School Information Software to NSW 
public high schools. 
Removal of competitive constraint exerted by School Bytes 
74. 
The ACCC is considering the competitive constraints exerted by School Bytes 
and whether the proposed acquisition will result in the loss of a vigorous and 
effective competitor.  
75. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition will enable Sentral to 
neutralise the competitive pressure that School Bytes has been exerting. Market 
participants comment that, even though School Bytes has only recently launched 
School Information Software, many schools prefer it because of the flexible and 
customisable functionality, its operability within the NSW DoE environment, its 
low prices, and School Bytes’ highly responsive service levels. Further, market 
 
 
3 As noted at paragraph 24, School Information Software consists of both ‘Student Administration’ and ‘School 
Management & Operations’. The ACCC understands that within the ‘Student Administration’ category there are core and 
non-core modules. 


Global Payments – proposed acquisition of School Bytes 
 
Page 15 of 24 
participants observe that School Bytes’ price structures are more suitable for 
small schools, and are much cheaper compared to Sentral and Compass.  
76. 
Further, market participants observe that School Bytes has been a driver of price 
competition, better customer service and increased product innovation. They are 
concerned that if Global Payments acquires School Bytes, there will be a loss of 
competitive constraint on Sentral. 
Customer switching 
77. 
The ACCC is considering whether the challenges schools face when switching 
School Information Software suppliers exacerbates the competition concerns 
that arise from the proposed acquisition. 
78. 
The term of the Panel Agreements is 5 years and each order placed by a school 
is for a minimum of 12 months and a maximum of 24 months, meaning there are 
regular opportunities for schools to consider switching. 
79. 
However, the ACCC is concerned that in practice schools face challenges to 
switching School Information Software suppliers. Market feedback suggests 
that once School Information Software becomes embedded in a school’s IT 
systems, schools are reluctant to switch, due to the disruption it causes to 
change software. Market participants indicate that when schools switch, they 
often need to maintain the legacy software for some time. The cost of 
maintaining two software products takes away from already resource-
constrained budgets. Switching also requires a major launch process that 
involves re-training staff and parents/carers about the new software.  
80. 
The ACCC has received feedback that this reluctance of schools to switch 
suppliers affects the commercial viability of new entrants and existing suppliers 
seeking to gain scale, as they find it challenging to win enough schools to justify 
the investment to enter, and the ongoing costs of supply. 
81. 
Market participants observe that schools will stay with a School Information 
Software supplier, unless they are extremely dissatisfied with the service, to 
avoid switching. However, some schools have commented that they would 
switch where a supplier is able to supply a product that is superior in terms of 
value, functionality and/or support, and point to School Bytes as an example.  
82. 
The ACCC notes that the switching that has occurred in the last two years has 
taken place in unique circumstances in which the NSW DoE established the 
AMPS and decided to decommission Tribal. This means that many schools have 
made the decision to switch for the first time, but this level of switching may not 
be representative of competitive dynamics in the future. 
83. 
The ACCC accepts that the prevailing reluctance to switch would occur with and 
without the proposed acquisition. However, the ACCC is concerned that the 
challenges schools face may exacerbate the competition concerns with the 
proposed acquisition. 


Global Payments – proposed acquisition of School Bytes 
 
Page 16 of 24 
Barriers to entry and expansion 
84. 
The ACCC is considering whether new entry or expansion would be likely, timely 
and sufficient to prevent a substantial lessening of competition that might 
otherwise result from the proposed acquisition. 
85. 
Market feedback suggests that barriers to entry to supply School Information 
Software to NSW public schools are likely to be high, particularly for businesses 
that are not already supplying School Administration Software elsewhere, and 
include: 
• 
financial capital and technological capability to design and deliver 
software solutions specifically for school environments that are 
customisable according to each school’s specific needs 
• 
significant time and costs in the application process to become an 
approved AMPS-supplier, including compliance with various functional 
and non-functional requirements, and integration with departmental 
systems 
• 
ongoing requirements to remain on the AMPS, including a requirement to 
have onshore and available customer support and compliance with 
cybersecurity measures, and 
• 
the fact that most schools already use Sentral and School Bytes and 
there are challenges to switching. 
86. 
The ACCC acknowledges that for suppliers operating outside of NSW, or 
supplying to independent schools or other School Administration Software 
categories, commencing supply of School Information Software to NSW public 
schools will not take as long or be as costly, in terms of product development 
and/or product customisation. However, these suppliers will still need to 
become AMPS-approved, at the time the NSW DoE conducts a refresh. They will 
also need to comply with the ongoing requirements to remain on the AMPS. As 
with new suppliers, they will also be faced with the fact that most schools 
already use Sentral and School Bytes, are familiar with those suppliers, and may 
be reluctant to switch. 
87. 
Global Payments submits that an existing supplier with a basic School 
Information Software product could develop a product that complies with the 
NSW DoE’s requirements in less than 6 months. The ACCC notes that it has 
received significantly longer estimates of between 1-2 years from other market 
participants, including School Administration Software suppliers.  
88. 
The ACCC notes that Hero began supplying School Information Software to NSW 
public schools in 2023. This suggests entry is feasible for established suppliers 
based outside NSW. Although the AMPS is still in its early stages, the ACCC 
notes that Hero has only achieved marginal growth to date.  
89. 
The ACCC considers that for AMPS-suppliers that are already supplying School 
Information Software, the most significant barrier to expansion is that, as 
discussed above, most schools already use Sentral and School Bytes and may 


Global Payments – proposed acquisition of School Bytes 
 
Page 17 of 24 
be reluctant to switch. The ACCC observes that one School Information Software 
supplier has already exited the AMPS, and the ACCC considers there is a risk 
other suppliers could exit if they do not gain enough scale to cover the ongoing 
costs of supply. 
Competitive constraint from other competitors  
90. 
The ACCC is considering whether other School Information Software suppliers 
could exert sufficient competitive constraint on Global Payments if the proposed 
acquisition proceeds.  
91. 
There are currently 7 approved School Information Software suppliers on the 
AMPS, including Sentral and School Bytes. The next closest competitors to the 
parties (based on number of schools/customers), are Compass and Hero. The 
ACCC observes that, despite the presence of these alternative suppliers, schools 
overwhelmingly use either Sentral or School Bytes. Compass and Hero have only 
managed to achieve marginal growth and collectively have a share of supply that 
is around 5%. 
92. 
The ACCC is considering whether schools are choosing Sentral and School 
Bytes because of their ability to supply multiple categories and provide 
something close to a ‘one-stop-shop’. However, the ACCC notes that Compass 
supplies all categories of School Administration Software, but has not been able 
to achieve comparable scale in NSW. The ACCC is continuing to investigate 
whether this is due to the first-mover advantages of Sentral and School Bytes in 
relation to School Information Software and Student Finance Software products 
(before the establishment of the AMPS), and their existing relationships with 
schools, or for other reasons. 
93. 
As noted above, the ACCC acknowledges that the supply of School Information 
Software to NSW public schools has undergone a period of disruption, with the 
establishment of the AMPS and the upcoming decommissioning of Tribal, which 
is due to be completed by 30 June 2024. However, the ACCC understands that 
while some schools are still using Tribal during the transition period, most 
schools have selected a School Information Software supplier from the AMPS. 
Accordingly, the ACCC does not anticipate the level of switching that has 
occurred in recent years is likely to be representative of future competitive 
dynamics. 
94. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that, despite the presence of multiple School 
Information Software suppliers on the AMPS, these suppliers are unlikely to 
exert significant competitive constraint on Sentral and School Bytes post-
acquisition. This is due to the number of schools that already use Sentral and 
School Bytes, the low proportion of schools that are yet to decide their future 
AMPS supplier once Tribal is decommissioned, the barriers to entry and 
expansion, and the challenges schools face when switching. 


Global Payments – proposed acquisition of School Bytes 
 
Page 18 of 24 
Countervailing power of the NSW DoE 
95. 
The ACCC is considering the extent to which the NSW DoE can impose 
constraints on Sentral and School Bytes, or otherwise use its position to reduce 
the risk of horizontal unilateral effects arising from the proposed acquisition.  
96. 
Global Payments submits that the NSW DoE has significant countervailing 
power, including through its relationship with NSW public schools and via the 
AMPS. Global Payments points to the establishment of the AMPS, the limitation 
on schools purchasing software outside the AMPS, and the price caps contained 
in the Panel Agreements as evidence of its countervailing power. 
97. 
The ACCC observes the terms of the Panel Agreements (as discussed at 
paragraphs 28-29) enable the NSW DoE to exert some constraint on Sentral’s 
and School Bytes’ ability to raise prices or reduce service levels. The ACCC also 
recognises that the NSW DoE may enforce its contractual rights for specific 
instances of contractual breaches. 
98. 
The ACCC is also continuing to investigate the extent to which the NSW DoE 
could lower barriers to entry or expansion, for instance, by changing the 
conditions to become approved on the AMPS or by sponsoring new entry or 
expansion.  
99. 
However, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the countervailing power of the 
NSW DoE is unlikely to prevent a substantial lessening of competition. The ACCC 
is concerned about the market power of Sentral and School Bytes, and the fact 
that, post-acquisition, the NSW DoE’s ability to rely on the threat of schools 
switching to the next largest supplier will be significantly diminished. 
ACCC’s preliminary views 
100. In summary, the ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition is likely to:  
• 
bring the two largest suppliers of School Information Software to NSW 
public schools under common ownership and result in a significant 
increase in concentration,  
• 
reduce competition between Sentral and School Bytes, who are close 
competitors in respect of primary schools and are becoming closer 
competitors in respect of high schools, and 
• 
reduce the competitive constraints of a vigorous and effective competitor 
in the form of School Bytes. 
101. The ACCC is concerned other suppliers are unlikely to significantly constrain 
Sentral and School Bytes post-acquisition. This is particularly so considering the 
number of schools that already use Sentral and School Bytes, the low number of 
schools that are still to decide on a School Information Software supplier once 
Tribal is decommissioned, customer stickiness, and the height of barriers to 
entry. These factors, in combination, make it difficult for small competitors and 
new entrants to build sufficient scale to constrain Sentral or School Bytes.  


Global Payments – proposed acquisition of School Bytes 
 
Page 19 of 24 
102. The ACCC is also concerned that while the NSW DoE can impose price increase 
limitations and minimum service level obligations as part of its Panel 
Agreements with suppliers, this is not equivalent to the competitive constraint 
that an effective competitor would exert (i.e. the extent to which Sentral and 
School Bytes compete by improving services, investing in product development 
and innovation, and lowering prices).  
103. Accordingly, the ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition is likely to 
result in lower service quality and less innovation in the supply of School 
Information Software to NSW public schools than would occur in a future 
without the proposed acquisition. The ACCC is also concerned that the proposed 
acquisition will weaken price competition below the price caps during the term 
of the Panel Agreements, and when the Panel Agreements are re-negotiated, 
may result in higher prices than would occur in a future without the proposed 
acquisition. Global Payments’ intention to operate Sentral and School Bytes 
separately post-acquisition does not adequately mitigate these concerns. 
Questions for market participants 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the concerns in relation to 
the supply of School Information Software to NSW public schools. In particular, market 
participants may wish to comment on the following: 
• 
the degree of competitive constraint provided by other suppliers, such as 
Compass, Hero, Educonnex, Edsmart, ImproMation and Millenium 
• 
the extent to which School Bytes provides a differentiated offering that is difficult 
or unlikely to be replicated by other competitors 
• 
whether the price controls and minimum service obligations contained in the Panel 
Agreements are sufficient to prevent price increases or a reduction in service 
levels, and 
• 
the extent to which the scale of Sentral and School Bytes affects the incentives for 
smaller competitors to continue supplying School Information Software to NSW 
public schools or for new entrants to begin supplying School Information Software 
to NSW public schools. 
Issue of concern: reduction in competition in the supply of 
Student Finance Software to NSW public schools  
104. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in the supply of Student Finance Software to 
NSW public schools. The proposed acquisition would combine the two largest 
suppliers of Student Finance Software to NSW public schools and result in a 
significant increase in concentration. It would also reduce competition between 
Sentral and School Bytes, who are likely each other’s closest competitor. 


Global Payments – proposed acquisition of School Bytes 
 
Page 20 of 24 
Significant increase in concentration 
105. School Bytes is the largest supplier of Student Finance Software to NSW public 
schools, with approximately a 75% share of supply. Sentral started supplying 
Student Finance Software specifically suited to NSW public schools in 2023 and 
has gained about a 20% share. The only other approved supplier of Student 
Finance Software, Compass, has a share of around 5%. This indicates that there 
is already a high degree of concentration, with School Bytes and Sentral being 
the largest suppliers.  
106. As noted above, the ACCC acknowledges that current shares of supply to NSW 
public schools may not be entirely representative of future shares but are still a 
useful indication of competitive dynamics. Specifically, the ACCC notes that 
Tribal has only recently been decommissioned (31 March 2024) and the AMPS 
refresh has not yet concluded, which may mean additional suppliers could 
become approved. Nevertheless, the ACCC considers these shares are still a 
useful indication of competitive dynamics. 
Closeness of competition between the parties  
107. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that, in respect of the supply of Student Finance 
Software to NSW public schools, the parties are each other’s closest competitor.  
108. There are currently only 3 AMPS-approved suppliers of Student Finance Software 
(Sentral, School Bytes, and Compass), and schools overwhelmingly use either 
Sentral or School Bytes. Although market feedback indicates that School Bytes’ 
Student Finance product is more expensive, it is considered better quality 
compared to Sentral’s and Compass’ more recently launched products. 
109. As with the supply of School Information Software, market feedback suggests 
that School Bytes is an innovative competitor that has automated manual 
processes and provides excellent customer service. The ACCC is concerned that 
with Sentral recently launching Student Finance Software for NSW public 
schools, the proposed acquisition will reduce competition between Sentral and 
School Bytes. 
Customer switching 
110. The ACCC repeats the concerns about the challenges faced by schools to 
switching School Information Software suppliers. Given the level of 
concentration in the supply of Student Finance software, the ACCC has 
preliminary concerns that the reluctance of schools to switch may entrench the 
positions of School Bytes and Sentral post-acquisition, and represent a barrier to 
entry and expansion. However, the ACCC is continuing to consider whether there 
are differences in the product categories such that switching Student Finance 
Software suppliers is quicker, cheaper and more straightforward compared to 
School Information Software. 


Global Payments – proposed acquisition of School Bytes 
 
Page 21 of 24 
Barriers to entry and expansion 
111. The ACCC is considering whether new entry or expansion would be likely, timely 
and sufficient to prevent a substantial lessening of competition that might 
otherwise result from the proposed acquisition. 
112. As with School Information Software, the ACCC is considering the height of 
barriers to entry for suppliers that do not have any School Administration 
Software products, and for existing suppliers of Student Finance Software in 
other geographic areas, to independent schools or existing suppliers of other 
categories of School Administration Software. The ACCC is also considering the 
height of barriers to expansion for suppliers of Student Finance Software to NSW 
public schools, who are seeking to gain scale. 
113. Market feedback suggests that compared to School Information Software, it 
would not take as much time or capital for a new entrant to develop Student 
Finance Software or for a supplier of another School Administration Software 
category to develop Student Finance Software suitable for NSW public schools. 
Further, the ACCC understands that the NSW DoE requirements for Student 
Finance Software are simpler and more uniform than for School Information 
Software. 
114. The ACCC notes that School Bytes was established in 2015, following changes 
in NSW relating to how public schools handled finances and was the first to 
integrate payments with Westpac’s Government PayWay service. The ACCC 
acknowledges that School Bytes achieved substantial scale and uptake for its 
Student Finance Software without access to significant finance or resources. 
However, the ACCC considers that this is in part due to its first-mover advantage, 
and the fact the AMPS had not yet been established. 
115. As noted above, the NSW DoE intends to conduct a refresh of the AMPS 
periodically, and the first refresh has not yet concluded. The ACCC is concerned 
that even if it does not take as much time and capital to develop a Student 
Finance Software product (compared to a School Information Software product), 
there is still the barrier of becoming approved on the AMPS and the challenge of 
converting schools that have become accustomed to using the existing 
suppliers. 
Competitive constraint from other competitors 
116. As noted above, in addition to Sentral and School Bytes, Compass is the only 
other AMPS-approved Student Finance supplier. Compass has only managed to 
achieve marginal growth to date, and schools overwhelmingly use either Sentral 
or School Bytes.  
117. The ACCC understands the NSW DoE may appoint additional suppliers once the 
AMPS refresh concludes, and therefore the ACCC considers that competition to 
supply Student Finance Software is still developing. However, the ACCC is 
concerned that the proposed acquisition may undermine this potential future 
competition and raise barriers to entry and expansion for new suppliers, as it will 
likely be harder for them to gain sufficient scale to exert constraint on Sentral 
and School Bytes post-acquisition. The ACCC is concerned that if other 


Global Payments – proposed acquisition of School Bytes 
 
Page 22 of 24 
suppliers, including Compass, do not achieve sufficient scale to cover ongoing 
costs, they may exit the AMPS for Student Finance Software. 
Countervailing power of the NSW DoE 
118. The ACCC is investigating the extent to which the NSW DoE has countervailing 
power in relation to the supply of Student Finance Software. In addition, the 
ACCC is investigating whether there are any differences between School 
Information Software and Student Finance Software that impact on the NSW 
DoE’s countervailing power, such that it could be used to prevent a substantial 
lessening of competition.  
119. However, at this stage, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the countervailing 
power of the NSW DoE is unlikely to prevent a substantial lessening of 
competition. The ACCC is concerned about the market power of Sentral and 
School Bytes, and the fact that, post-acquisition, the NSW DoE’s ability to rely on 
the threat of schools switching to the next largest supplier will be significantly 
diminished.  
ACCC’s preliminary views 
120. In summary, the ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition would:  
• 
bring the two largest suppliers of Student Finance Software to NSW public 
schools under common ownership and result in a significant increase in 
concentration, and 
• 
reduce competition between Sentral and School Bytes, who are likely to be 
each other’s closest competitors. 
121. The ACCC is concerned that other suppliers are unlikely to significantly constrain 
Sentral and School Bytes post-acquisition. The ACCC is continuing to investigate 
the extent of customer stickiness, and the height of barriers to entry and 
expansion. However, at this stage, the ACCC is concerned that the proposed 
acquisition will make it difficult for small competitors and new entrants to 
acquire sufficient scale to constrain Sentral or School Bytes.  
122. The ACCC is also concerned that while the NSW DoE can include price increase 
limitations and minimum service level obligations in the Panel Agreements, 
these are not equivalent to the competitive constraint that an effective 
competitor would exert (i.e. the extent to which Sentral and School Bytes 
compete by improving services, investing in product development and 
innovation, and lowering prices).  
123. The proposed acquisition would bring Sentral and School Bytes under common 
ownership, and the ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition is therefore 
likely to result in lower service quality and less innovation in the supply of 
Student Finance Software to NSW public schools than would occur in a future 
without the proposed acquisition. The ACCC is also concerned that the proposed 
acquisition will weaken price competition below the price caps during the term 
of the Panel Agreements, and when the Panel Agreements are re-negotiated, 


Global Payments – proposed acquisition of School Bytes 
 
Page 23 of 24 
may result in higher prices than would occur in a future without the proposed 
acquisition. 
Questions for market participants 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the concerns in relation to 
the supply of Student Finance Software to NSW public schools. In particular, market 
participants may wish to comment on the following: 
• 
the degree of competitive constraint imposed by other suppliers on Sentral and 
School Bytes 
• 
the extent to which Sentral or School Bytes provides a differentiated offering that 
is difficult or unlikely to be replicated by other suppliers 
• 
whether the price controls and minimum service obligations contained in the Panel 
Agreements are sufficient to avoid a reduction in service levels or loss of 
innovation, and maintain price competition 
• 
whether it is easier for schools to switch Student Finance software suppliers than 
School Information Software suppliers, and the time and cost involved in switching 
• 
the extent to which the size of Sentral and School Bytes affects the incentives for 
small competitors to continue supplying Student Finance Software to NSW public 
schools or for new entrants to begin supplying Student Finance Software to NSW 
public schools 
• 
the degree of product development required for an existing supplier or a new 
entrant to develop Student Finance Software suitable for NSW public schools. 
Issue that may raise concern: reduction in potential 
competition for the supply of School Administration Software 
in other geographic areas 
124. The ACCC is considering the extent to which the proposed acquisition may 
substantially lessen competition in the supply of School Information Software or 
Student Finance Software to public schools in other Australian states or 
territories. While some School Administration Software is configured to meet the 
needs of schools in particular states or territories, the broader geographic 
operation of other suppliers demonstrates the ability to operate across regions. 
125. Sentral is based in NSW, but also supplies to public schools in Western Australia, 
Victoria, South Australia and the Australian Capital Territory. School Bytes 
currently only supplies to NSW public schools, but the ACCC considers it could 
potentially expand its operations beyond NSW in the future, including to compete 
with Sentral.  
126. The ACCC is therefore concerned that the proposed acquisition may limit 
potential future competition in other geographic areas beyond NSW and will 
continue to investigate whether this is likely to raise concerns.  


Global Payments – proposed acquisition of School Bytes 
 
Page 24 of 24 
Questions for market participants 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the concerns in relation to 
the limitation of potential future competition between Sentral and School Bytes in 
geographic areas outside NSW. In particular, market participants may wish to 
comment on the following: 
• 
the degree of development that would be required for School Bytes to create 
School Information Software or Student Finance Software suited to public schools 
in other states and territories, including the time and cost involved, and 
• 
the willingness of public schools in other states and territories to switch suppliers 
and use School Bytes. 
ACCC's future steps 
127. As noted above, the ACCC invites submissions from market participants on each 
of the issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that 
may be relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. Submissions should 
be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au by no later than 14 June 2024. 
128. The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
129. The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 8 August 2024. However 
the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Informal Merger Review 
Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment explaining the ACCC's 
final view may be published following the ACCC's public announcement. 
