 
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
tel: (02) 6243 1368 
mergers@accc.gov.au
www.accc.gov.au
Our ref: IM-72320  
 
Contact officer: Sophie Matthiesson / Andrew Toor 
Contact phone: (03) 9910 9456 / (02) 9230 9159  
9 February 2024 
Dear Interested Party 
Request for submissions: Global Payments’ proposed acquisition of School 
Bytes 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
the proposed acquisition of School Bytes Learning Pty Ltd (School Bytes) by Global 
Payments Australia 1 Pty Ltd (Global Payments) (the Proposed Acquisition). 
Global Payments is a payments technology company and its subsidiary Sentral Pty Ltd 
(Sentral) supplies school administration software in Australia. School Bytes supplies school 
administration software in NSW. Further details are provided at Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact on competition for the supply of school 
administration software.  
In particular, we are seeking your views on: 
• 
the availability of alternative suppliers of school administration software in NSW; 
• 
the likelihood of new entry and expansion for the supply of school administration 
software; and 
• 
the likely impact of the Proposed Acquisition on prices and/or service quality for 
school administration software. 
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B. For schools that use 
school administration software, we encourage you to fill out our survey available on the 
ACCC Consultation Hub as an alternative to providing a written response to the questions 
in Attachment B.  
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 


Please provide your response by 23 February 2024 via email with the title: Submission re: 
Global Payments/School Bytes – attention: Sophie Matthiesson / Andrew Toor. If you 
require more time to respond, please let us know. 
If you would like to arrange a time to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any 
questions about this letter, please contact Sophie Matthiesson on (03) 9910 9456 or 
Andrew Toor on (02) 9230 9159. 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public 
Mergers Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC treats sensitive information it receives during a merger review as confidential, and will 
not publish your submission. We will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our 
advisors/consultants) unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information 
legislation or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition and 
Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, we will notify 
you in advance where possible so that you have an opportunity to be heard. Therefore please 
clearly indicate if any information you provide is confidential. Our Informal Merger Review Process 
Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
Bruce Mikkelsen 
General Manager (A/g) 
Merger Investigations  
 
 
 
 


Attachment A 
The Proposed Acquisition 
Global Payments proposes to acquire School Bytes. Global Payments, through its 
subsidiary Sentral, and School Bytes both supply school administration software. 
The supply of school administration software to public schools in NSW 
In November 2022, the NSW Department of Education (the NSW DoE) established 
the Administration Marketplace Panel for Schools (the Panel). If a supplier is 
selected by the NSW DoE to be on the Panel, it can supply school administration 
software to NSW public schools.  
Suppliers are approved for different categories of software depending on their 
offerings. These software categories are: 
(i) 
Student Administration and School Management and Operations 
(together, School Information Software or SIS); 
(ii) 
Timetabling; 
(iii) 
Parent Communications and Consent; and 
(iv) 
Student Finance. 
Global Payments 
Global Payments is a subsidiary of Global Payments Inc., an American payments 
technology company. 
Sentral, a subsidiary of Global Payments, supplies school administration software 
across Australia to public schools, and private and Catholic schools. Sentral supplies 
SIS, Parent Communications and Consent, and Student Finance products nationally. 
It is currently approved to supply SIS, Parent Communications and Consent and 
Student Finance on the Panel in NSW. 
School Bytes 
School Bytes is a supplier of school administration software based in NSW. It only 
supplies public schools. School Bytes offers, and is approved to supply on the Panel, 
SIS, Parent Communications and Consent and Student Finance products. 
 


 
Attachment B 
For schools that use school administration software, we encourage you to fill out our 
survey on the ACCC Consultation Hub as an alternative to providing a written 
response to the questions below. 
1. Describe your business or organisation and explain your interest in the Proposed 
Acquisition, including any commercial relationship(s) with Global Payments, 
School Bytes or their subsidiaries. 
Questions for customers  
2. Please outline which supplier/s you currently use for all categories of school 
administration software. 
3. Please identify alternative suppliers you could use for each category of school 
administration software, and identify any suppliers you consider particularly 
effective competitors (for example, through their prices, innovation, product 
offering, service).  
4. Are you more likely to consider suppliers that offer multiple categories of school 
administration software? Please explain. 
5. Describe your procurement process for school administration software. 
a. Please comment on any differences in the requirements of:  
i. primary schools and high schools  
ii. public schools and independent schools 
for school administration software  
6. Please explain whether you would consider using a supplier who is not on the 
NSW DoE Panel. If you have used a non-Panel supplier, please identify the 
supplier and explain the categories of school administration software supplied. 
7. Discuss how closely Sentral and School Bytes compete in the supply of school 
administration software in NSW.  
8. Please outline the process of switching suppliers of school administration 
software. In particular, 
a. How regularly do you switch suppliers? 
b. What factors influence your decision to switch?  
c. Does the Panel allow for customers to switch suppliers? 
d. How long would it take to transition from one school administration 
software product to another? 
9. Have there been any significant new entrants supplying school administration 
software?  
10. What role does the NSW Department of Education Panel play in regulating 
pricing and service quality of school administration software? 


 
Questions for competitors  
11. Identify which categories of school administration software products you provide. 
Please confirm if you provide all of these categories in NSW. 
12. Identify and describe your competitors for the supply of school administration 
software in NSW. Please also provide market shares where possible, and the 
basis for such shares.  
13. Please explain the approval process to be placed on the Panel? Are there 
certain requirements that need to be satisfied? 
14. From your perspective, what are some of the key requirements of customers 
looking for school administration software? 
15. Discuss the likelihood of new entry or expansion in the supply of school 
administration software. Please provide any examples of new entry or expansion 
in NSW and Australia in the last 5 years and outline any hurdles for new 
entrants/providers looking to expand.  
Additional information 
16. Please explain how the Proposed Acquisition, may impact price, innovation, product 
offering, service quality, for the supply of each of the categories of school 
administration software.  
17. Please provide any additional information or comments that you consider relevant to 
the ACCC’s consideration of the Proposed Acquisition. 
 
