 
Page 1 of 9 
 
Statement of Issues 
 
14 August 2025 
 MicroStar Logistics – Proposed Acquisition of Konvoy   
 
Purpose 
1. 
Kegstar Pty Limited (Kegstar), a wholly owned subsidiary of MicroStar Logistics 
LLC (MicroStar), proposes to acquire the following Australian assets of Konvoy 
Holdings Pty Limited (Konvoy), which is in administration and receivership: 
• 
kegs, 
• 
keg tracking technology hardware and software (known as 'Katch'), 
• 
select employees, 
• 
a keg repair and maintenance facility, which includes a property lease 
located in Dandenong South, Victoria, and 
• 
other ancillary assets 
(the Proposed Acquisition).  
2. 
This Statement of Issues: 
• 
gives the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission’s (ACCC) 
preliminary views on competition issues arising from the Proposed 
Acquisition,  
• 
identifies areas of further inquiry, and 
• 
invites interested parties to submit comments and information to assist 
our assessment of the issues. 
3. 
Statements of Issues do not refer to confidential information provided by the 
parties or other market participants and therefore may not fully articulate the 
ACCC’s preliminary position. 


MicroStar Logistics – Proposed Acquisition of Konvoy 
 
Page 2 of 9 
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views 
4. 
In considering the Proposed Acquisition, the ACCC applies the legal test set out 
in section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the CCA). In general 
terms, section 50 prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to 
have the effect, of substantially lessening competition in any market. 
5. 
The ACCC divides its preliminary views into three categories, 'issues of concern', 
'issues that may raise concerns' and ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’. In this 
Statement of Issues there is one issue of concern.  
Issue of concern – unilateral effects in the supply of Keg Pooling Services  
6. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the Proposed Acquisition would be likely to 
have the effect of substantially lessening competition in the supply of Keg 
Pooling Services1 in Australia.  
7. 
Kegstar and Konvoy both supply Keg Pooling Services to various customers in 
Australia. Kegstar and Konvoy are the only two suppliers of Keg Pooling 
Services, and the ACCC considers that they are likely to be each other’s closest 
competitor. Market feedback indicates that Konvoy currently provides a strong 
and effective constraint on Kegstar.  
8. 
The ACCC is concerned that post-acquisition, Kegstar would be able to 
sustainably raise prices, or otherwise reduce service quality, relative to the 
counterfactual in which the assets of Konvoy are acquired by another party that 
continues to provide Keg Pooling Services in Australia.    
Making a submission 
9. 
The ACCC invites submissions from interested parties, particularly on the 
following key issues: 
• 
how closely Kegstar and Konvoy compete to supply Keg Pooling Services 
in Australia, 
• 
the ability of customers to switch from using the services provided by 
Kegstar and Konvoy to alternative methods of supplying their kegged 
alcoholic beverages to licensed venues (including owning or leasing a 
fleet of kegs, using plastic kegs, or canning and bottling), and 
• 
the likely impact of the Proposed Acquisition on prices, quality and/or 
service levels for Keg Pooling Services in Australia.  
10. 
Interested parties should provide submissions by 5pm on 28 August 2025. 
Responses may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: ‘Submission 
re: MicroStar/Konvoy’. If you would like to discuss the matter with ACCC staff or 
 
 
1 Keg Pooling Services refers to a service in which customers can rent a keg for a single fill. When the keg is emptied, 
the empty keg is then collected by the keg rental company, which can then rent the keg out to another customer. 


MicroStar Logistics – Proposed Acquisition of Konvoy 
 
Page 3 of 9 
have any questions about this Statement of Issues, please contact 
mergers@accc.gov.au.   
11. 
The ACCC anticipates making a final decision on 9 October 2025 however, this 
timeline can change. To keep up with possible timing changes and to find 
relevant documents, interested parties should visit the Mergers Register on the 
ACCC's website at www.accc.gov.au/publicregisters/mergers-registers/public-
informal-merger-reviews. 
Confidentiality of submissions 
12. 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the Proposed Acquisition. We 
will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) 
unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation 
or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the CCA. Where 
the ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, the ACCC will notify 
you in advance where possible so that you may have an opportunity to be heard. 
Therefore, please identify any confidential information that is provided to the 
ACCC. Our Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information 
on confidentiality. 
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’ 
13. 
A Statement of Issues is not a final decision about a proposed acquisition. A 
Statement of Issues outlines the ACCC’s preliminary views and identifies further 
lines of inquiry. 
14. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties 
(including customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to 
ascertain and consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also 
intended to provide the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis 
for making further submissions should they consider it necessary. 
The parties  
The acquirer: MicroStar and Kegstar 
15. 
MicroStar is a keg services company incorporated in the United States and has 
operations in the UK, Europe, Australia and New Zealand.  
16. 
In Australia, MicroStar operates under the name Kegstar, after having acquired 
the Kegstar business from Brambles Limited in 2021. Kegstar offers Keg Pooling 
Services to various customers in Australia. It also offers keg leasing to some 
customers in Australia.   
The target: Konvoy  
17. 
Konvoy operates a keg services business in Australia and New Zealand. Konvoy 
offers Keg Pooling Services to customers in Australia. It also offers keg leasing 
to some customers in Australia. 


MicroStar Logistics – Proposed Acquisition of Konvoy 
 
Page 4 of 9 
18. 
Konvoy has developed a tracking technology, known as Katch, which it uses to 
track the location and temperature of its kegs. Some of its kegs are not fitted 
with tracking beacons and so are not tracked by Katch. 
19. 
Konvoy is in voluntary administration and receivership. On 11 March 2025,  
FTI Consulting and McGrathNicol were appointed, respectively, as the 
administrators and receivers of Konvoy. McGrathNicol undertook the sale 
process of Konvoy’s assets.   
Industry background  
20. 
In Australia, beer and cider are mostly sold through two major channels, being: 
• 
‘on-premise’, which includes the sale of ‘kegged alcoholic beverages’ 
through taps and ‘packaged alcoholic beverages’ in bottles and cans for 
consumption in licensed venues, and  
• 
‘retail’, where ‘packaged alcoholic beverages’ are sold in retail stores. 
21. 
Producers seeking to have their alcoholic beverages served on tap in licensed 
venues supply venues with filled kegs. A standard keg is made from stainless 
steel, has a capacity of 50L, is reuseable and can be stacked for easy storage. 
22. 
While kegs can come in other sizes and in different materials, the ACCC 
understands that these kegs generally have specific use cases. For example, 
producers may use single-use plastic kegs when exporting alcoholic beverages 
as these are generally not reusable and do not need to be returned. 
23. 
Producers using standard stainless-steel kegs have certain universal 
requirements. They must access empty kegs, fill those kegs with alcoholic 
beverages, then send the kegged alcoholic beverages to licensed venues. Once a 
standard stainless-steel keg has been emptied at a licensed venue, the keg must 
be collected. 
24. 
There are key differences in the collection of the kegs and ownership models: 
a. producers may own or lease a fleet of kegs for multiple uses, then arrange 
for the collection of these kegs (keg ownership and/or leasing), or 
b. producers may rent a keg for a single fill; the keg rental company then 
collects the empty keg and can rent it out again (Keg Pooling Services).  
25. 
In both of the above scenarios, producers are responsible for delivering kegged 
alcoholic beverages to licensed venues.   
Keg Pooling Services 
26. 
Kegstar and Konvoy both offer Keg Pooling Services. Keg Pooling Services 
enable customers to rent kegs on a short-term basis, from a shared pool of kegs. 
27. 
Customers order empty kegs that are owned by Keg Pooling Service providers 
for delivery to their production facilities and subsequently fill them. Customers 
are responsible for transporting these kegs to licensed venues. 


MicroStar Logistics – Proposed Acquisition of Konvoy 
 
Page 5 of 9 
28. 
Keg Pooling Service providers arrange the collection of emptied kegs from 
licensed venues and typically deliver them to warehouses to repair and store for 
future delivery to customers’ production facilities. They are not necessarily 
delivered back to the original customer.  
29. 
Keg Pooling Service providers manage their fleets of keg assets. This involves 
maintaining a suitably sized fleet of kegs, optimising the transport of empty kegs 
from licensed venues to warehouses, and ensuring the availability of empty kegs 
for delivery to customers when needed.   
Keg ownership and/or leasing  
30. 
An alternative to Keg Pooling Services is for customers to operate their own 
fleet. There are two ways customers can do this, either by owning their own kegs 
or leasing kegs.  
31. 
Some producers in Australia own large fleets of kegs, although the ACCC 
understands that keg ownership is predominantly limited to the larger 
conglomerates such as Lion (Kirin) and CUB (Asahi), and the large independent 
Coopers. Based on our investigation to date, it does not appear that small to 
medium independent breweries are likely to own or operate their own fleets.  
32. 
In addition to Keg Pooling Services, Kegstar and Konvoy both offer keg leasing, 
in which customers take possession of a keg for an agreed period and pay fees 
over the course of the lease term.  
33. 
Unlike Keg Pooling customers, producers of kegged alcoholic beverages that 
operate their own fleets must organise for the return of the emptied kegs, either 
using their own in-house logistics solutions or outsourcing to third party logistics 
providers, and repair and store them until ready to be refilled.  
34. 
The ACCC understands that customers generally prefer Keg Pooling Services 
over keg leasing because of the convenience associated with the Keg Pooling 
Service offering.  
35. 
Keg leasing services are a small component of the total keg services supplied by 
both Kegstar and Konvoy and there are no other prominent providers of keg 
leasing in Australia. While some other companies may offer keg leasing as a 
service, their kegs tend to be bespoke or otherwise of non-standard size. 
The Proposed Acquisition  
36. 
On 20 June 2025, an Asset Sale Agreement was signed, pursuant to which 
Kegstar (with MicroStar acting as Guarantor) proposes to acquire the following 
assets from Konvoy: 
• 
kegs, 
• 
keg tracking technology hardware and software (known as 'Katch'), 
• 
select employees, 


MicroStar Logistics – Proposed Acquisition of Konvoy 
 
Page 6 of 9 
• 
a keg repair and maintenance facility, which includes a property lease 
located in Dandenong South, Victoria, and 
• 
other ancillary assets.  
37. 
The ACCC notes that the Proposed Acquisition, and this Statement of Issues, 
relates only to the sale of Konvoy’s Australian assets.  
Future with and without the acquisition  
38. 
In assessing a proposed acquisition under section 50 of the CCA, the ACCC 
considers the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future state of 
competition if the acquisition proceeds (the ’with’ position) to the likely future 
state of competition if the acquisition does not proceed (the ‘without’ position) 
to determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to substantially lessen 
competition in any relevant market. 
39. 
As outlined in paragraph 19 above, McGrathNicol undertook a competitive sale 
process in which a number of parties expressed interest in purchasing Konvoy’s 
assets.  
40. 
Based on the information currently available, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that 
in the absence of the Proposed Acquisition, Konvoy’s assets would likely be sold 
to an alternate purchaser, and that purchaser would utilise those assets by 
operating a business that offers services including Keg Pooling Services.  
Overlap and potentially relevant markets 
Product dimension  
41. 
The ACCC has not yet reached a view on market definition.   
42. 
The ACCC considers that the primary area of competitive overlap between 
Kegstar and Konvoy is in the supply of Keg Pooling Services where they are the 
only two suppliers of these services in Australia. Customers of Keg Pooling 
Services are kegged alcoholic beverage producers seeking to have their 
beverages served on tap in licensed venues.  
43. 
Kegstar and Konvoy also both offer keg leasing, which the ACCC does not 
consider to be a close substitute for Keg Pooling Services. 
44. 
The ACCC considers that the key difference between keg pooling and keg 
leasing is that keg leasing customers are required to organise for the return 
logistics of their kegs. This is an important difference for the majority of keg 
pooling customers, as it means they do not need to dedicate any resources to 
keg return logistics.  
45. 
Leasing comprises a small part of Kegstar and Konvoy’s total supply of keg 
services and is generally only used by producers who have their own licensed 
venue and can re-use kegs on site accordingly. 


MicroStar Logistics – Proposed Acquisition of Konvoy 
 
Page 7 of 9 
46. 
While other companies may offer keg leasing services, because of the lack of 
demand, these companies will usually offer keg leasing as a secondary service, 
alongside its primary product offering, for customers who specifically request it. 
Many kegs that are leased will display the customer’s branding or be of a non-
standard size, and these types of kegs are not usually available through Keg 
Pooling Services.  
47. 
The ACCC is therefore of the view that the supply of Keg Pooling Services is 
likely to form a distinct market.  
Geographic Dimension  
48. 
The ACCC understands that Keg Pooling Services are available from both 
Kegstar and Konvoy at a national level. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that it is 
appropriate to consider the competitive effects of the Proposed Acquisition on 
an Australia-wide basis. 
49. 
The ACCC is continuing to consider the scope of the relevant markets but has 
focused its review on the impact of the Proposed Acquisition on competition for 
the supply of Keg Pooling Services in Australia. 
Questions for Market Participants 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary views about 
the definition of the relevant market(s). In particular, market participants may wish to 
comment on: 
• 
whether producers of kegged alcoholic beverages can change the packaging of 
their products to bottles or cans instead of kegs for sale in licensed venues 
• 
whether a supplier of keg logistics services is likely to purchase a keg fleet to 
supply Keg Pooling Services 
• 
what capital and other costs would be required by a keg logistics services provider 
to offer Keg Pooling Services (for example, purchasing a fleet of kegs, staffing or 
leasing a storage facility), and 
• 
the costs for maintaining a fleet of kegs, including collection and servicing costs. 
Issue of concern: Unilateral effects in the supply of Keg 
Pooling Services  
50. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the Proposed Acquisition would be likely to 
substantially lessen competition in the supply of Keg Pooling Services by 
removing Konvoy as an effective competitor to Kegstar, relative to the 
counterfactual in which the assets of Konvoy are acquired by another party that 
continues to provide Keg Pooling Services in Australia.  
51. 
Kegstar and Konvoy are the only two suppliers of Keg Pooling Services in 
Australia, and the ACCC considers that they are likely to be each other’s closest 
competitor. The ACCC also considers that Konvoy currently provides a strong 
and effective constraint on Kegstar.  


MicroStar Logistics – Proposed Acquisition of Konvoy 
 
Page 8 of 9 
52. 
The ACCC is concerned that, post-acquisition, Kegstar would not be effectively 
constrained from raising prices or reducing service quality. Kegstar would likely 
be more effectively constrained if Konvoy’s assets were operated by another 
party in competition with Kegstar. 
Entry or expansion by rivals  
53. 
Entry, or expansion, by rivals can remedy competition concerns if it is 
simultaneously likely, timely and sufficient in extent to provide an effective 
constraint on the merged firm.  
54. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the likelihood of timely and sufficient entry, 
or expansion, in this market is low in the short-term. The ACCC considers that 
any entrant would need to invest in a substantial keg fleet and supporting 
logistics network to compete effectively with Kegstar’s national presence.  
55. 
This upfront investment would limit an entrant’s ability to enter incrementally as 
demand for its services grow. The likely low return on investment in any 
transitional phase to build scale further reduces the likelihood of entry or 
expansion.  
Producers’ ability to self-supply  
56. 
The credible threat of customers profitably bypassing a merged firm can 
constrain any attempted exercise of market power by the merged firm. This 
could include a customer choosing to self-supply instead of obtaining services 
from a merged firm. 
57. 
Independent producers that supply kegged alcoholic beverages only to licensed 
venues close to their production facilities may be able to sustainably self-supply 
and manage their own keg fleet, due to a smaller keg footprint and therefore 
relatively lower cost of retrieving kegs.  
58. 
However, the ACCC considers that independent producers supplying kegged 
alcoholic beverages beyond their local area are likely to be reliant on Keg Pooling 
Services. They would be unlikely to self-supply and manage their keg needs as 
they would face the following challenges:  
• 
the need to obtain necessary capital to purchase (or lease) and logistically 
support (storage) a suitable fleet of kegs, noting that producers will require 
a sufficient quantity of kegs to meet demand while waiting for the return of 
empty kegs from licensed venues, 
• 
the need to retrieve their kegs across a wide geographic footprint, which 
would likely require investment in asset management and logistics 
management capabilities,  
• 
monitoring when to collect empty kegs to minimise collection costs (even if 
they utilise third party logistics service to do the collection of the empty 
kegs on their behalf), and 
• 
ensuring they have enough empty kegs available for the next production 
batch, factoring in greater delays to retrieving empty kegs that are more 
dispersed across greater distances from their production facilities.  


MicroStar Logistics – Proposed Acquisition of Konvoy 
 
Page 9 of 9 
Questions for Market Participants 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to its 
preliminary views regarding the competitive effects of the Proposed Acquisition. In 
particular, market participants may wish to comment on the following: 
• 
the closeness of competition between Kegstar and Konvoy, including examples of 
where a customer has sought quotes from both and how they compared 
• 
examples of switching between Kegstar and Konvoy, or any other provider, and any 
factors that may have made it difficult to switch (i.e., contract terms and 
conditions) 
• 
whether customers have considered keg leasing or the ownership of kegs, in 
conjunction with self-supply/use of a third-party logistics solution. Please provide 
examples where possible, including of any business case, the costs involved and 
how it compared with using Keg Pooling Services. Please also explain how this 
consideration might be different for producers with a small and local customer 
base, a producer with many and distant customers, and for very large producers of 
kegged alcoholic beverages, and 
• 
any examples of entry/attempted entry of new Keg Pooling Service providers. 
Please comment on any potential difficulties a new entrant may face when trying 
to win business from Kegstar post-acquisition. 
ACCC's future steps 
59. 
As noted above, the ACCC invites submissions from market participants on each 
of the issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that 
may be relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. Submissions should 
be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au by no later than 31 August 2025. 
60. 
The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
61. 
The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 9 October 2025. 
However, the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment explaining the 
ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's public announcement. 
