 
 
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
tel: (02) 6243 1368 
mergers@accc.gov.au
www.accc.gov.au
Our ref: IM-72969 
 
 
17 June 2025 
 
 
 
Dear Interested Party 
Request for submissions: MicroStar Logistics, LLC’s proposed acquisition of 
the assets of Konvoy Holdings Pty Limited (Receivers and Managers 
Appointed) (Administrators Appointed) 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
the proposed acquisition of certain assets from Konvoy Holdings Pty Limited (Receivers 
and Managers Appointed) (Administrators Appointed) (Konvoy) by MicroStar Logistics, 
LLC (MicroStar) (the Proposed Acquisition).  
MicroStar and Konvoy both operate keg services businesses which offer a range of keg 
logistics services. The acquirers of these services are typically brewers who wish to supply 
their products to licensed venues to be served on tap. Further information about the keg 
logistics services industry can be found at Attachment A. 
Konvoy is in administration and is controlled by receivers. The receivers have commenced 
a formal sale process, which MicroStar has been involved in. We understand that MicroStar 
proposes to acquire the following assets: 
• 
kegs 
• 
keg tracking technology hardware and software (known as 'Katch') 
• 
select employees 
• 
a keg repair and maintenance facility, which includes a property lease located in 
Dandenong South, Victoria, and 
• 
other ancillary assets.  
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact on competition. In particular, we are 
seeking your views on: 
• 
how closely MicroStar and Konvoy compete to supply keg logistics services in 
Australia 


 
 
• 
the extent to which brewers can switch from using the services provided by 
MicroStar and Konvoy to alternative methods to supply their products to licensed 
venues (including owning or leasing kegs, or canning and bottling), and 
• 
the likely impact of the proposed acquisition on prices, quality and/or service levels 
for keg logistics services in Australia. 
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B. 
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
Please provide your response by 1 July 2025 via email to mergers@accc.gov.au with the 
title: Submission re: MicroStar / Konvoy. If you require more time to respond, please let us 
know. 
If you would like to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any questions about this 
letter, please contact mergers@accc.gov.au.  
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public 
Mergers Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC treats sensitive information it receives during a merger review as confidential, 
and will not publish your submission. We will not disclose submissions to third parties 
(except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of 
information legislation or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the 
Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, we will notify you in advance where possible so that you have an opportunity to 
be heard. Therefore please clearly indicate if any information you provide is confidential. 
Our Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on 
confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
 
 
 
Daniel McCracken-Hewson 
General Manager  
Merger Assessments  
 
 


 
 
Attachment A 
The acquirer – MicroStar 
MicroStar is the largest independent keg services company in the United States and 
has operations in the UK, Europe, Australia and New Zealand. It entered the 
Australian market in 2021 via the acquisition of the Kegstar business from Brambles.  
In Australia, MicroStar handles the activities and costs relating to a brewery’s keg 
use (for example, keg capital costs, reverse logistics, repair & maintenance, and keg 
management labour) under a pay-per-fill (PPF) model.  
Under the PPF model, a brewery will order the number of kegs it requires, these are 
then delivered to the brewery for them to clean and fill and ship to the brewery's 
customers. The brewery provides information on full keg deliveries to MicroStar who 
then tracks the kegs to the brewery’s customers (i.e. licensed venues), and then 
MicroStar arranges to collect the empty kegs for further use by its PPF customers. 
Brewers will pay for this PPF service based on the number of kegs that the brewery 
refills.  
The target – Konvoy 
Konvoy operates a keg services business in Australia and New Zealand. In Australia, 
it provides keg rentals on a short-term basis (‘keg pooling’) and leases kegs on a 
long-term basis, for a period of 12-60 months (‘keg leasing’). Under its long-term keg 
leasing, brewers can lease kegs for their brewery for a monthly fee.  
Its short-term keg pooling is a PPF model. As part of this, Konvoy stores and 
maintains a fleet of serviced kegs, which may be tracked, and are delivered to 
brewers as needed in exchange for a fixed fee. The brewers will then clean, fill and 
distribute the kegs and Konvoy tracks the kegs and arranges a pickup from the 
brewer’s customer (i.e. licensed venues) once they are empty. 
In addition to these leasing services, Konvoy offers separate keg maintenance & 
repair and branding services. It also sells kegs to customers and supplies a tracking 
technology, known as ‘Katch’, as part of its logistics offering which assists with 
tracking kegs across the supply chain.  
Proposed acquisition 
On 11 March 2025, Konvoy entered receivership. As part of the receivership process, 
the receivers have commenced a formal sale process, which MicroStar has been 
involved in. We understand that MicroStar proposes to acquire the following assets: 
a) kegs, 
b) keg tracking technology hardware and software (known as 'Katch'),  
c) select employees,  
d) a keg repair and maintenance facility, which includes a property lease located 
in Dandenong South, Victoria, and 
e) other ancillary assets. 
Area of overlap 
MicroStar and Konvoy both supply PPF services to various brewery customers in 
Australia. The acquirers of PPF services are brewers who wish to supply their 
products to licensed venues to serve their product on tap.  


 
 
Once beer has been brewed and conditioned, it can be served at the brewery itself 
(i.e. direct to consumers via a ‘tap room’) or be packed. This can be done in kegs (for 
draught beer), bottles, or cans, depending on the intended market and consumption 
method.  
Brewers who wish to package their beer in kegs have a choice of keg logistics 
options to select from such as: 
• 
keg ownership (which can include stainless steel kegs and plastic (one-way) 
kegs) 
• 
keg leasing, and  
• 
PPF (such as the merging parties’ respective offerings). 
Once beer has been packaged, it is transported from the brewery to its destination.  
This can be handled by the brewer or a third-party logistics providers depending on 
the keg usage model adopted by the brewer.  
Keg leasing or ownership  
Brewers who lease or own kegs are considered responsible for them and their 
movements. Similar to a PPF model, these brewers will either need to distribute their 
kegs to licensed venues themselves or otherwise outsource this to a third-party 
logistics provider. However, in contrast to a PPF model, when the kegs are empty 
(except in the case of plastic-one-way kegs), the brewer is also responsible for 
transporting them back to the brewery to be refilled and cleaned/repaired (if 
required).  
With PPF, the same kegs are shared by many breweries, as opposed to an 
ownership or leasing model in which the kegs that a brewery receives would be 
considered its property.  
Since kegs are shared by many breweries under a PPF model, empty kegs can be 
transported to another brewery who uses the same service provider.  
Pay-per-fill  
MicroStar and Konvoy both offer PPF services to customers.  
Both MicroStar and Konvoy store and maintain a fleet of kegs. Brewers can then 
order, and subsequently fill kegs to meet their requirements.  
Customers of Konvoy and MicroStar are then responsible for the transportation of 
kegs to licensed venues. There are third party logistics suppliers such as BevChain, 
amongst many others, who can supply these services to brewers. 
Once the kegs are empty, the PPF provider will arrange pickup from the licensed 
venue and then redistribute them to its customers to be refilled. In such models, 
brewers will pay fees depending on how many kegs it refills.   
 
 


 
 
Attachment B 
Your business 
1. Please provide a brief description of your business or organisation.  
2. Please outline the reasons for your interest in the proposed acquisition, including 
any commercial relationship(s) with MicroStar and/or Konvoy. This will help us 
better understand your views.  
Areas of overlap 
3. For each of the last two years, identify the number of kegs you: 
a. owned (separated by traditional steel kegs and plastic (one way) kegs) 
b. leased (for example where you pay a monthly fee) 
c. filled using a PPF model (i.e. using the PPF services provided by either of 
the parties).  
4. For each of the last two years, provide the total spend carried out by your 
organisation for each of the following services (including any costs to third 
parties): 
a. PPF, and  
b. keg leasing. 
5. If you own kegs, please outline the amount spent to purchase these kegs and any 
ongoing costs, such as financing, depreciation, lost keg costs and maintenance 
incurred as a result of this ownership.   
6. For customers of MicroStar and/or Konvoy, please explain: 
a. how you would choose a supplier (for example, do you go out to tender or 
negotiate privately?) 
b. whether you acquire keg logistics services from multiple suppliers 
c. your considerations when selecting a supplier 
d. do you acquire any other services from your supplier(s), and  
e. whether you consider keg ownership or leasing to be a viable alternative 
to the keg logistic services offered by MicroStar and Konvoy.  
7. How do MicroStar and Konvoy compare as suppliers of keg logistic services, 
taking into account factors such as:  
a. range of services 
b. convenience 
c. price 
d. quality, and/or 
e. reputation.  
8. Please identify any other suppliers of keg logistic services that your business 
could use outside of MicroStar and Konvoy.  
9. Have you ever switched between types of keg solutions (for example owning 
kegs, leasing kegs, PPF model, plastic (one way) kegs, etc)?  
a. If so, what factors influenced your decision? 
b. What would make you consider switching in the future? 


 
 
10. To what extent do you consider canning and/or bottling beer to be an alternative 
to using kegs? In what circumstances, if any, would you consider switching from 
using kegs to canning and/or bottling?  
11. What would be involved to establish or expand a keg logistics business in 
Australia in competition with the merger parties (for example investment costs, or 
existing long-term contracts)? How difficult would this be and why?  
 
Other information or competition issues  
12. Outline any concerns you may have about the proposed acquisition, including any 
impact on price or service quality in the supply of keg logistics services.  
13. Provide any additional information or comments that you consider relevant to the 
ACCC’s consideration of the proposed acquisition.  
