Page 1 of 18 
 
Public Competition Assessment 
2 March 2016 
Foxtel Management Pty Ltd and Ten Network Holdings Ltd 
- proposed acquisitions 
The ACCC’s decision 
1. 
On 22 October 2015, the ACCC announced its decision not to oppose certain 
proposed acquisitions by Foxtel Management Pty Ltd (Foxtel) and Ten Network 
Holdings Ltd (Ten).  
2. 
The proposed acquisitions by Foxtel and Ten comprise: 
 
Foxtel’s proposed acquisition of up to 15% of Ten 
 
Ten’s proposed acquisition of 24.99% in Multi Channel Network Pty Ltd 
(MCN) 
 
The proposed granting of an option to Ten by Presto TV Pty Ltd (Presto) to 
acquire 10% of Presto. 
3. 
The ACCC decided that the proposed acquisitions would be unlikely to have the 
effect of substantially lessening competition in contravention of section 50 of the 
Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the Act). Section 50 prohibits acquisitions 
that would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of substantially 
lessening competition in any market. 
4. 
The ACCC considered the competitive effects of the proposed acquisitions in the 
following markets: 
 
the national market(s) for the acquisition of television content (including 
possible markets, or sub-markets, for the acquisition of sports content and 
premium Australian original content)  
 
the national market for the supply of free-to-air (FTA) television services 
 
the national market for the supply of subscription television (STV) services 
 
a broader national market for the supply of television viewing services 
encompassing (at least) both FTA and STV services 
 
the national market for the supply of subscription video on demand (SVOD) 
services 
 
the national market for the supply of television advertising services. 


 
Page 2 of 18 
5. 
The ACCC concluded that: 
 
Although the proposed acquisitions will lead to a greater alignment of the 
interests of Foxtel and Ten, and will increase the degree of influence Foxtel 
has over Ten, the proposed acquisitions, on their own, are unlikely to result 
in a substantial lessening of competition. 
 
The proposed acquisitions are minority shareholdings and there are 
limitations on the extent to which Foxtel will be able to influence Ten as a 
result of holding a 15% shareholding in Ten.  
 
The other FTA networks, STV providers and streaming service providers 
(including SVOD providers) will continue to have sufficient alternatives to 
allow them to obtain content that is attractive to viewers. 
 
Foxtel and Ten will continue to face competition from the remaining FTA 
networks, and streaming services are also likely to become an increasingly 
competitive alternative for viewers, including for access to sports content. 
 
Advertisers will continue to have alternatives to Foxtel and Ten for television 
advertising in the event that MCN attempted to increase advertising rates or 
engage in anticompetitive bundling practices post-acquisition. 
6. 
As the proposed acquisitions raise important issues, the ACCC is issuing this 
Public Competition Assessment to outline reasons for its decision. 
7. 
Please note that this and other public competition assessments are subject to 
the following qualifications: 
(a)  the ACCC considers each transaction on a case-by-case basis and so the 
analysis and decision outlined in one assessment will not necessarily reflect 
the ACCC’s view of another transaction even where that other transaction 
may involve the same or a related market; and 
(b) as assessments are brief and also do not refer to confidential information 
provided by the merger parties or other market participants, assessments do 
not set out all of the issues and information considered by the ACCC, nor all 
of the analysis and reasons of the ACCC. 


 
Page 3 of 18 
Review timeline 
8. 
The following table outlines the timeline of key events in this matter. 
Date 
Event 
25 June 2015 
ACCC commenced review under the Merger Process 
Guidelines. 
24 July 2015 
Closing date for submissions from interested parties. 
19 August 2015 
ACCC requested further information from the merger 
parties. 
3 September 2015 
ACCC received further information from the merger 
parties. 
9 September 2015 
Former proposed decision date of 10 September 2015 
delayed by ACCC to allow additional time to consider the 
proposed acquisitions. 
14 September 2015 
ACCC published a Statement of Issues outlining 
preliminary competition concerns. 
28 September 2015 
Closing date for submissions relating to Statement of 
Issues. 
22 October 2015 
ACCC announced it would not oppose the proposed 
acquisitions. 
9. 
The total elapsed time from start to finish was approximately four months. The 
total period net of time taken by the parties to submit information or documents 
was 74 business days. 
Market inquiries 
10. Submissions were received from, and market inquiries were conducted with, a 
wide range of industry participants, including competitors, potential competitors, 
advertising agencies, audio-visual content producers, other regulatory agencies 
and other interested parties during the course of the investigation. 
Statement of Issues 
11. The ACCC published a Statement of Issues on 14 September 2015. In the 
Statement of Issues, the ACCC expressed the preliminary view that the 
proposed acquisition had the potential to substantially lessen competition for the 
supply of FTA television services in Australia, particularly in the broadcasting of 
sports content, and reduce or even eliminate competition between Foxtel and 
Ten for the supply of advertising services. 
12. The ACCC also expressed the preliminary view that the proposed acquisition 
was unlikely to result in a substantial lessening of competition in the supply of 
SVOD services to consumers. 


 
Page 4 of 18 
The parties  
Foxtel 
13. Foxtel is agent for (and manager of) the Foxtel Partnership. The partners in the 
Foxtel Partnership are Telstra Media Pty Limited (a wholly owned subsidiary of 
Telstra Corporation Limited) (Telstra) and Sky Cable Pty Limited (which is 
indirectly a wholly owned subsidiary of News Corporation) (News Corp). 
14. Foxtel is Australia’s largest STV provider. It delivers television content to over 
2.6 million Australian subscribers. It also operates the Foxtel Play multiplatform 
subscription audio-visual content service (which allows subscribers to view 
Foxtel’s television stations online via a tablet or smartphone device) and the 
Presto SVOD service (see below). 
15. News Corp and Telstra each have the right to appoint one-half of the board of 
directors of Foxtel. In addition, News Corp has the right to appoint the Chief 
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of Foxtel; Telstra has the right to 
terminate these officers.1 
16. Foxtel stated that the proposed acquisitions will deliver synergies and improved 
advertiser access through the MCN arrangement, and “represents the best long-
term solution for a revitalised, competitive and profitable Ten”. 
Ten 
17. Ten is an ASX-listed commercial broadcaster that operates three FTA television 
channels in Australia (Ten, Eleven and One). It also operates Tenplay, a 
multiplatform online catch-up service. Ten’s five largest shareholders and their 
shareholdings at 16 October 20142 were: 
 
Birketu Pty Ltd (a company controlled by Bruce Gordon) 12.62%, with a 
further 1.82% held by Birketu Investments Pty Ltd (also controlled by Bruce 
Gordon) 
 
Hanrine Investments Pty Ltd (a company controlled by Gina Rinehart) 
9.45% 
 
HSBC Custody Nominees (Australia) 9.40% 
 
Illyria Nominees Television Pty Limited (Illyria) (a company controlled by 
Lachlan Murdoch) 8.52% 
 
Aidem Holdings Pty Limited (a company controlled by James Packer) 
8.52%. 
Multi Channel Network (MCN) 
18. MCN is an advertising business that sells advertising services across a number 
of subscription television channel suppliers whose channels appear on the 
Foxtel platform and on other subscription platforms (e.g. Fetch TV). It also sells 
on-line advertising space for Telstra Media Pty Ltd. 
                                                 
1  
New Corp Annual Report (Form 10K) filed 13 August 2015. 
2  
According to Ten’s 2014 Annual Review.  


 
Page 5 of 18 
19. Foxtel holds 75% of the shares in MCN and the remaining 25% are held by Fox 
Sports Australia Pty Ltd (owned by News Corporation). As part of the proposed 
acquisitions, Ten will acquire a 24.99% interest in MCN. 
20. On 1 September 2015, MCN commenced acting as Ten's advertising sales 
representative pursuant to a sales representation agreement entered into by Ten 
and MCN in June 2015.3 
Presto TV Pty Ltd (Presto) 
21. Presto is an SVOD service that enables subscribers to stream audio-visual 
content from an online library via the internet when purchased with a monthly 
subscription. This content can be streamed on a range of devices, including 
televisions, tablets and smartphones. 
22. Presto is a joint venture between Seven West Media Limited (Seven) and Foxtel. 
23. The ACCC notes that Ten had entered into a supply arrangement with Presto. 
This arrangement is not subject to section 50, but may be subject to other 
provisions of Part IV of the Act. 
Other industry participants 
News Corporation (News Corp) 
24. News Corp is the ultimate parent company of News Corp Australia Pty Limited 
(formerly News Limited), which is the owner of The Australian, The Herald Sun, 
and numerous other newspapers. 
25. News Corp is one of the owners of Foxtel through its indirect ownership of Sky 
Cable Pty Limited. 
26. News Corp is also the owner of Fox Sports Australia Pty Limited (Fox Sports), 
which supplies an Australian group of sports channels that is broadcast on 
Foxtel. 
27. Rupert Murdoch is the Executive Chairman and Lachlan Murdoch is the 
Executive Co-Chairman of News Corp. The Murdoch Family Trust holds 38.4% 
of the voting B class common stock in News Corporation (with Rupert Murdoch 
holding a further 1% interest).4  
Fox Sports Australia (Fox Sports) 
28. Fox Sports compiles and produces the FOX SPORTS 1, FOX SPORTS 2, FOX 
SPORTS 3, FOX SPORTS 4, FOX SPORTS 5, FOX FOOTY and FOX SPORTS 
NEWS STV channels, available via the Foxtel platform. It also produces sporting 
coverage and broadcasts sporting content on Foxtel’s internet TV service Foxtel 
Play, Foxtel on T-box, and Foxtel Go App. 
                                                 
3  
This agreement is not subject to section 50 of the Act. 
4  
News Corp Proxy Statement, 1 September 2015. 


 
Page 6 of 18 
Nine Network 
29. The Nine Network (Nine), owned by the ASX-listed Nine Entertainment Co, 
operates three FTA television channels (Nine, GO! and GEM) and distributes 
content through its online catch-up service, 9Jumpin (rebranded ‘9Now’ in 
January 2016). Nine also owns 50% of Stan, an SVOD service. 
ABC 
30. The Australian Broadcasting Corporation (ABC) is Australia’s national public 
broadcaster. It operates several FTA channels (ABC1, ABC2, ABC3, ABC 4 Kids 
and ABC News 24) and also distributes content via its online video-on-demand 
and catch-up service, ABC iView. Some of the content available on ABC iView 
has not previously been broadcast on ABC’s FTA network. 
SBS 
31. The Special Broadcasting Service (SBS) is a national public broadcaster that 
operates under the Special Broadcasting Services Act 1991 (Cth). It has a 
mandate to reflect the multicultural nature of Australian society. It operates three 
FTA channels (SBS ONE, SBS TWO and NITV) and also distributes content 
online through its website, SBS On Demand. 
Fetch TV 
32. Fetch TV is an Australian internet protocol television (IPTV) subscription 
television service that combines FTA television viewing with video recording 
functions, a movie-on-demand service, and other channels including ESPN, 
MTV, National Geographic, Animal Planet, BBC World News and CCTV News. 
Netflix 
33. Netflix is a US SVOD service provider. It has a library of content which it 
acquires or produces. Netflix launched in Australia in March 2015 and is 
currently the largest SVOD service provider. 
Stan 
34. Stan is an Australian SVOD service provider. It is a joint venture between Nine 
and Fairfax Media Ltd (Fairfax). Stan launched in Australia in January 2015. 
Fairfax 
35. Fairfax is an Australian media company with an integrated print, radio and online 
digital presence in metropolitan, rural and regional areas of Australia. Fairfax’s 
digital and metropolitan print publications include The Sydney Morning Herald, 
The Age, The Australian Financial Review and numerous regional and 
community newspapers across Australia. 
Endemol Shine 
36. Endemol Shine Group (Endemol Shine), a 50:50 joint venture between 21st 
Century Fox and Apollo Management, is a global content creator, producer and 


 
Page 7 of 18 
distributor with over 600 scripted and non-scripted formats5 across operations 
spanning more than 30 countries.6 
37. Its Australian division, Endemol Shine Australia, is Australia’s largest television 
production house with formats including MasterChef, The Voice, Big Brother, 
The Bachelor and The Biggest Loser. 
Industry background 
The changing media landscape 
38. Significant technological developments in the media industry have led to rapid 
changes in how audio-visual content is consumed. Greater take-up of broadband 
services in Australia, with large or no data limits, has facilitated significant growth 
in the amount of audio-visual content consumed online on multiple devices, 
including smartphones, smart TVs and tablets. 
39. Internet-based content delivery services allow consumers to view content when, 
where and how they want it. SVOD services such as Presto, Netflix and Stan 
have been successful in attracting customers and are continuing to grow their 
subscriber bases. FTA and STV providers have recently changed the way they 
deliver services, either increasing the amount of their content available online or, 
in the case of STV, reducing the prices for their services. 
40. As a result of structural changes in the media industry and changes to 
consumers’ viewing patterns, traditional audio-visual broadcasters are offering a 
mix of both linear and on-demand content distribution to maintain their 
audiences. Importantly, broadcasters are increasingly offering content that 
consumers prefer to watch live in order to maintain their audience share and 
advertising revenue. This type of content, which is known as ‘appointment 
viewing’ or ‘water cooler programs’, includes live sport, Australian-produced 
reality TV shows and news. 
Market definition 
41. The ACCC considered the competitive effects of the proposed acquisitions in the 
following markets: 
 
the national market(s) for the acquisition of television content (including 
possible markets, or sub-markets, for the acquisition of sports content and 
premium Australian original content) 
 
the national market for the supply of FTA television services 
 
the national market for the supply of STV services 
 
a broader national market for the supply of television viewing services 
encompassing (at least) both FTA and STV services 
                                                 
5  
‘Format’ refers to the overall concept and branding of a copyrighted television program. 
6  
21st Century Fox was formed following the 2013 separation of the old News Corporation into 21St 
Century Fox and the new News Corporation (described in paragraphs 24-27 above). Rupert Murdoch 
and Lachlan Murdoch are Co-Chairmen of 21st Century Fox and James Murdoch is its Chief 
Executive Officer. According to 21st Century Fox’s Proxy Statement of 29 September 2015, the 
Murdoch Family Trust holds 38.4% of the voting B class common stock in 21st Century.   


 
Page 8 of 18 
 
the national market for the supply of SVOD services 
 
the national market for the supply of television advertising services. 
42. The ACCC did not consider it necessary to reach a concluded view in relation to 
the precise boundaries of the relevant markets, and considered the broader 
competitive dynamics in each market and the potential for these dynamics to 
change in the foreseeable future. 
43. However, the ACCC considered that differences in pricing models,7 the type of 
content delivered on different platforms, and the equipment, devices and 
complementary services needed to view content on different platforms would be 
likely to limit the degree of substitutability of FTA, STV, SVOD and direct 
streaming services for many viewers (and potential viewers). In addition, 
substitutability between platforms differs for particular types of content. For 
example, the ACCC considered there was greater substitutability between FTA 
and STV services for sports content than between these services and SVOD 
services, as there was a very limited amount of sports content currently 
broadcast on SVOD services. By contrast, direct streaming of sports content is 
likely to be viewed by viewers as a closer substitute. 
44. The ACCC considered that it was also relevant to assess the potential 
competitive effects of the proposed acquisitions in a broader market for 
television services that encompasses (at least) both FTA and STV services, in 
addition to separate markets for these services. While FTA services are each 
other’s closest substitutes, the ACCC considered that STV was likely to be the 
next closest substitute. 
45.  Advertisers typically seek to advertise across a range of platforms (including 
television, online, radio and print) to maximise their reach and target specific 
types of viewers. Television is an important medium for advertising because it 
combines visual imagery, sound and movement, and it has the ability to reach 
large audiences. The ACCC considered that it was relevant to assess the 
proposed acquisitions in a national market for television advertising services. 
Competition analysis 
With/without 
46. Section 50 of the Act prohibits mergers or acquisitions that would have the effect 
or be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
In assessing a proposed acquisition pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC 
considers the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future competitive 
environment post-acquisition if the acquisition proceeds (the “with” position) to 
the likely future competitive environment if the acquisition does not proceed (the 
“without” position) to determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in any relevant market. 
47. The ACCC considered that the likely competition effects of the proposed 
acquisitions were most appropriately assessed against a future without the 
                                                 
7  
For example, SVOD providers and Foxtel have different subscription charging models (with Foxtel 
also carrying some advertising), whereas FTA providers do not charge viewers a subscription fee but 
effectively ‘charge’ viewers by providing programming content bundled with advertising. 


 
Page 9 of 18 
acquisitions in which Ten, MCN and Presto continue their current operations 
under their current ownership (the status quo). 
48. Although Ten’s ratings and financial performance are weaker than they have 
been in the past, the ACCC was not satisfied that Ten’s performance would 
decline significantly without the proposed acquisitions. In fact, Ten’s ratings had 
slowly improved in the months leading up to the ACCC’s decision and it was 
expected that this would continue to have a positive effect on its advertising 
revenue in the future without the proposed acquisitions. Therefore, the ACCC 
considered the most likely future without the acquisitions was the status quo, 
where Ten continues to exert at least the same competitive constraint on its 
rivals as it did prior to the announcement of the proposed acquisitions. 
Ability and incentive to exert control or influence 
49. As the proposed acquisitions involve minority acquisitions, the ACCC’s 
competition assessment considered the extent to which the proposed 
acquisitions would result in the ability of Foxtel to influence Ten’s decision 
making or in an alignment of incentives between Foxtel, Ten, MCN and Presto. 
50. The ACCC considers that Foxtel’s acquisition of up to 15% of the issued share 
capital in Ten will enable Foxtel to exercise an increased degree of influence 
over Ten.  That increased influence may arise from a range of factors including: 
 
the significance of Foxtel’s investment in Ten 
 
the right for Foxtel to have one of six seats on the Ten board (taking into 
consideration the additional sway that board member may have as a result 
of Foxtel’s extensive industry experience) 
 
the possibility that Lachlan Murdoch8, who will also have a representative on 
Ten’s board), may have an incentive to align with Foxtel in some situations 
given his and the Murdoch Family Trust’s interests in News Corp, and 
indirectly, Foxtel. 
51. Significantly, the ACCC recognised that there will be limitations on the extent to 
which Foxtel would be able to exert influence over Ten in circumstances where 
the interests of Foxtel and Ten were not aligned, including: 
 
the four remaining members of the Ten board will comprise two independent 
directors and representatives of other major shareholders, including Birketu 
(owned by Bruce Gordon). These board members do not have relationships 
with or direct or indirect interests in Foxtel or News Corp 
 
all directors on the Ten board – no matter whose interests they represent – 
are required to act in the best interests of Ten in accordance with their 
statutory and fiduciary duties, and with any board protocols which may be in 
place. 
                                                 
8  
The ACCC notes the relationship between Mr Murdoch and Foxtel (through News Corp). Mr 
Murdoch’s Illyria has an 8.52% interest in Ten and will have a board representative (giving the News 
Corp-aligned interests two of six board representatives). 


 
Page 10 of 18 
Markets for the acquisition of television content 
52. The ACCC investigated whether the proposed acquisitions, by more closely 
aligning the interests of Ten and Foxtel, may have the effect of limiting the ability 
of other FTA providers to compete: 
 
for the acquisition of sports content 
 
for the acquisition of non-sport content. 
53. Each of these potential effects in the relevant market is analysed below. 
Acquisition of sports content 
Background 
54. The ACCC investigated whether the proposed acquisitions and subsequent 
alignment of Foxtel, Fox Sports and Ten’s incentives to enter into joint bids, 
commercial arrangements or bid exclusively with each other would reduce or 
foreclose the ability of other FTA networks to compete for sports rights. 
55. Sports content, in particular premium sports content9, is an extremely important 
part of an FTA network’s program offering due to the high ratings it achieves. 
Viewer interest in major sports is generally consistent over many years, whereas 
interest in other programs or formats (for example, reality television programs) 
can fluctuate more rapidly over time. 
56. The consistent ratings of major sports allow FTA networks to implement cross 
promotions and ‘lead-in’ strategies10 around these major events, leading to a 
ratings ‘halo’ effect that increases the network’s ratings overall. The benefits 
from sports content lead FTA networks to generally spend a significant 
proportion of their programming budgets on the acquisition of premium sports 
rights. Sports content is also very important to Foxtel’s ability to attract 
subscribers. 
57. The ACCC considers that the benefits to FTA networks and STV providers of 
having the rights to premium sporting events are unlikely to decrease in the 
foreseeable future.  
Uncertainty about future broadcasting of premium sports rights 
58. The ACCC took into account in its consideration of the proposed acquisitions the 
fact that rights to the most popular premium sports will not become available for 
some years. 
59. Seven and Nine have obtained the FTA rights to content for the top four 
premium sports for the next 4-8 years. This includes the AFL, NRL, Australian 
Open tennis and international cricket played in Australia (including T20, one-day 
internationals and test matches). The rights to the domestic Big Bash League 
are currently held by Ten until 2018. During the course of the ACCC’s 
investigation, the AFL (all rights) and NRL (FTA and digital rights only) 
                                                 
9  
The ACCC considers that premium sport content encompasses the AFL, NRL, Australian Tennis 
Open and International cricket played in Australia, and potentially the Big Bash League.  
10  Lead-in strategies relate to programs retaining a significant proportion of the audience of the program 
scheduled immediately before it.  


 
Page 11 of 18 
completed negotiations for the broadcast of their content, with agreements 
entered into until 2022 for each code. 
60. Given this, the ACCC took into account the uncertainty about the likely 
competitive dynamics when sporting bodies, including the AFL and NRL, will 
commence the next round of negotiations to license their rights. The ACCC 
considered that there may be potential, in the next five years or so, for significant 
growth in SVOD and other streaming services, such as direct streaming of live 
sports content. Such developments would potentially increase competition for 
sports rights, in particular non-premium sports rights, in the future. 
Bargaining and countervailing power of sporting bodies 
61. The ACCC found that some sporting bodies have a degree of bargaining power 
when negotiating the sale of premium sports rights, as their content is extremely 
valuable to both FTA networks and Foxtel, and this power may increase in the 
future if sporting bodies are able to use direct streaming as an alternative. 
62. The ACCC found that sporting bodies, when negotiating the sale of sports 
viewing rights, seek to optimise the overall returns they obtain by balancing 
audience reach and revenue considerations. Foxtel has historically been the 
highest bidder for these rights because it can recoup the cost through 
subscription revenue. However, Foxtel cannot deliver the same level of audience 
reach as the FTA networks as its penetration rate is only approximately one third 
of Australian households. Consequently (and in combination with the functioning 
of the anti-siphoning regime discussed from paragraph 87), it is common to see 
the highest-rating games or events broadcast on FTA (and in many cases 
simulcast on Foxtel) and the remaining less popular games or events shown 
exclusively on Foxtel.11 This gives the sporting body the desired balance 
between reach and revenue. 
63. Sporting bodies also aim to balance short-term with longer-term considerations. 
In the short-term, sporting bodies may forgo some revenue (by selling games or 
events to a FTA network rather than exclusively to Foxtel) in order to expand the 
reach of their sport and thereby build (or maintain) the broad popularity of the 
sport over time. Over the longer-term, greater popularity will lead to higher 
ratings and future revenues for their rights. For example, Netball Australia chose 
Ten to televise some matches from its domestic competition (the ANZ 
Championship) and Netball World Cup to increase exposure to the sport as this 
was expected to build interest, audiences and its fan base. To achieve this, 
Netball Australia did not charge Ten for these rights; in fact, Netball Australia’s 
sponsors paid Ten for making the air time available. 
64. Options to provide direct streaming of sports content through apps, gaming 
consoles, AppleTV or through websites are also increasingly available to 
sporting bodies in Australia, following similar developments in the United States 
and Europe.12 At the time of the ACCC’s decision, there were several examples 
of live streaming of sport in Australia: 
                                                 
11  Examples of this include the AFL, NRL, and V8 Supercars and Formula 1 motor racing. 
12  If a sporting body were to decide to stream its own content, it would not need to replicate Foxtel’s 
existing infrastructure (set-top boxes and access to satellite/HFC) in order to reach consumers. 
Streaming services use existing platforms in consumers’ homes (such as Apple TV, Xbox, tablets and 
mobile telephones).   


 
Page 12 of 18 
 
The AFL digital pass broadcasts every game live through its app, operated 
by Telstra, on mobile and tablet devices for an annual fee of $89.99. The 
app includes advanced statistics and full replays on demand. 
 
The NRL digital pass has similar features as the AFL digital pass and is also 
operated by Telstra. It costs $89.99 per year. 
 
The Cricket Australia Live Pass provides live streaming and match highlights 
of all cricket (domestic and international matches) played in Australia on its 
website and mobile devices. The pass costs $29.99 for a year or $4.99 for 
24 hour access. 
 
Cricket Australia has recently launched a channel on Apple TV which 
featured interviews, skill tutorials and highlights, and additional content 
created by Nine. 
 
Seven created a website and app to stream its live FTA coverage of tennis 
content on a computer or mobile device, including Wimbledon, the Davis 
Cup and the Australian Tennis Open in 2016. 
 
SBS simulcasts its FTA coverage of live cycling races (e.g. the Tour de 
France, World Championships) on its Cycling Central website. SBS also has 
an app for the Tour de France enabling users to stream live coverage. The 
app also provides information about the stage, riders and teams. 
65. These options are expected to grow as customer viewing trends change and as 
home internet functionality increases, and they would give sporting bodies the 
choice of streaming their own content or selling to streaming providers, in 
addition to their current options of selling their rights to FTAs or Foxtel. Foxtel 
has also responded to the potential of streaming services to compete with STV 
broadcasts of sports by offering its own streaming services for sport through its 
Foxtel Play and Foxtel Go services. 
66. However, the potential for SVOD services and other streaming services (e.g. 
YouTube, Google) to provide a viable alternative to FTA or STV networks is 
dependent on these services being able to monetise their content, for example 
through advertising, pay-per-view fees or various types of subscriptions There 
remains, therefore, some uncertainty as to the likely constraint of these 
alternative services on FTA and STV providers. 
67. The ACCC concluded that Foxtel will ultimately continue to exercise 
considerable market power when negotiating to acquire sports rights. This is 
particularly so for premium sports, given its ability to pay significant sums to 
sporting bodies for these rights compared to alternative acquirers. 
The importance of partnering with Foxtel to acquire sports rights 
68. The ACCC has in the past found that there were substantial potential 
commercial benefits to be gained by both Foxtel and an FTA network from joint 
bids or other commercial arrangements. This was found to be the case for a 
significant proportion of the premium sporting rights that were likely to be 
attractive to a FTA television network.13 
                                                 
13  See for example paragraph 41 of the ACCC’s Public Competition Assessment for Seven Group 
Holdings Limited - proposed acquisition of remaining shares in Consolidated Media Holdings Limited, 
published 15 February 2013.  


 
Page 13 of 18 
69. The ACCC considers that although entering into joint bidding and other 
commercial arrangements with Foxtel remain advantageous in some contexts, 
such arrangements may not be as important as they were in the past. The ACCC 
found that it is not always necessary for FTAs to partner or enter into commercial 
arrangements with Foxtel or Fox Sports to acquire premium sports rights. 
70. The introduction of the FTA multi-channels has increased the ability and 
incentive of FTA networks to acquire sports content packages in full, including 
sports content that has in the past been acquired by Foxtel (in particular, non-
premium sports and the less popular games for premium sports). In addition, the 
multi-channels give FTA broadcasters greater flexibility in broadcasting sport 
content to avoid conflicts with other programming.  Some events that were 
previously broadcast on both Foxtel and a FTA network can now be acquired 
and shown exclusively by a FTA broadcaster. Less valuable content that 
previously would have been shown on Foxtel (e.g. the outside courts at the 
Australian Open Tennis) can now be shown on FTA multi channels and FTA 
digital platforms. 
71. For example, the following sports rights were sold to an FTA broadcaster without 
a partnership with Foxtel: 
 
The AFL separately sold FTA rights to Seven, STV rights to News Corp and 
mobile rights to Telstra. 
 
The NRL sold its FTA and digital rights without involvement from Fox Sports 
or Foxtel, and its STV and other digital rights were to be dealt with 
separately at a later date. 
 
Rights to the Australian Open Tennis, Summer Olympics, Winter Olympics, 
the Australian Open Golf, The Australian PGA Championship and all 
Swimming Australia events were all purchased solely by Seven. 
 
Rights to the International cricket matches played in Australia (i.e. Test 
matches, one day internationals and international T20 matches) were 
purchased solely by Nine. 
 
Rights to the Big Bash League were purchased solely by Ten. 
 
Rights to the Football World Cup (soccer) were purchased solely by SBS. 
72. The ACCC considered, however, that there may remain circumstances in which 
it is advantageous for an FTA network to partner or enter into commercial 
arrangements to acquire both premium and non-premium sports rights with 
Foxtel. This includes content that would not be profitable for an FTA network to 
acquire, for example the least popular AFL or NRL games. It may also include 
significant high profile events, where a higher premium can be extracted by a 
sporting body through coordination and division of rights between Foxtel and an 
FTA or SVOD service. 
73. In considering whether the proposed acquisition may result in Foxtel exclusively 
partnering with Ten for the acquisition of sports rights, the ACCC reached the 
conclusion that Foxtel would not have the ability or incentive to require sporting 
bodies to only deal with Foxtel and Ten in partnership. Sports rights are of 
significant value to Foxtel and while it may favour a partnership with Ten, it is 
unlikely to forego rights in order to partner exclusively with a company in which it 
only has a 15% equity interest.  


 
Page 14 of 18 
Acquisition of non-sport content 
Background 
74. During the course of its investigation, market participants submitted that 
premium Australian content is increasingly important for FTA networks to attract 
audiences and, in the case of Foxtel, subscribers. This type of content, such as 
Australian-produced reality TV shows, is characterised as ‘water cooler 
programming’ (which viewers discuss with friends and colleagues the next day) 
and as ‘appointment viewing’ (which viewers prefer to watch live rather than on 
catch-up or online). This has resulted in broadcasters acquiring and producing 
more of this type of content in recent years. 
Foreclosure of competition for non-sport content 
75. The ACCC investigated whether the proposed acquisitions would give Foxtel, 
Ten or Presto the incentive and ability to agree to acquire the rights to certain 
non-sport content across all platforms (i.e. STV, FTA and SVOD) on an 
exclusive basis and to control release windows14 for that content. In this 
scenario, competitors to Foxtel, Ten and Presto may have a limited ability to 
compete for this content as they do not have a presence across all of these 
platforms. 
76. The ACCC considered that there are some types of content where there may be 
advantages to acquiring it across all platforms. For example, drama and 
documentary programs that can attract new and repeat viewers over an 
extended period could be broadcast on Foxtel, Ten and potentially Presto. 
However, the ACCC also understands that STV, FTA and SVOD providers have 
different preferences for content. For example, competitive reality TV shows 
(such as The Block, MasterChef, and The Bachelor), which are designed to be 
appointment viewing and have limited repeat value, are generally not suitable for 
broadcasting on STV networks where many programs are repeated daily. 
77. The ACCC understands that the control of release windows applies more to 
movies than television content and that competition for non-sport content 
generally focusses on competition by FTAs for first release rights. FTA networks 
can already acquire non-sport content in conjunction with STV or SVOD 
providers. For example, Seven (50% owner of Presto) and Nine (50% owner of 
Stan) already acquire SVOD rights along with FTA rights for some content. FTA 
networks, STV and SVOD providers can also seek to control the time period 
before the content can be broadcast on other platforms by acquiring holdback 
rights, thereby giving them exclusivity over that content for a defined period. For 
example, Foxtel acquired holdback rights for the television series Game of 
Thrones to ensure the series was exclusive to its platform. 
78. Given the information above, it is unlikely that the proposed acquisitions will 
provide Foxtel, Ten or Presto with a significant competitive advantage over its 
competitors as the content utilised by each platform to attract the majority of its 
viewers, and how that content is consumed, are different. The ACCC therefore 
concluded that Foxtel, Ten and Presto would not, as a result of the proposed 
acquisitions, have a significantly greater incentive or ability to acquire content on 
an exclusive basis, or with holdback rights. 
                                                 
14  ‘Release windows’ – the time period in which content is shown on a particular platform, such as first-
run rights, second-run rights, and so on. 


 
Page 15 of 18 
79. The ACCC also considered concerns raised by market participants that the 
proposed acquisitions would result in Ten gaining an advantage in the 
acquisition of premium prime-time original Australian content from Endemol 
Shine, given the Murdoch family interests in each of Endemol Shine and Foxtel. 
Endemol Shine is Australia’s largest television production house and owns the 
rights to the formats for high-quality, high-rating Australian programming. Given 
the increasing importance of premium Australian original content to FTA 
networks and Foxtel in attracting audiences and subscribers respectively, any 
advantage Ten would obtain through the proposed acquisitions in acquiring this 
content could give it a significant competitive advantage against its FTA rivals. 
80. The ACCC considered that, although access to Endemol Shine content is 
important, even if it could be said that Endemol Shine would favour Ten, there 
would remain alternative options for the acquisition of premium prime-time 
original Australian content post-acquisition. The ACCC is aware that FTA 
networks can and do produce their own premium non-sport content. For 
example, Seven has in-house production capacity and produces programs such 
as My Kitchen Rules, Packed to the Rafters, Home and Away, Winners and 
Losers, and Million Dollar Minute. 
81. In addition, a number of production companies produce premium prime-time 
original content in Australia, including Fremantle Media, Cavalier Productions, 
ITV, Matchbox, Zapruder and Essential Media. The ACCC did not receive 
information indicating significant barriers to these production companies 
expanding their production of such content should there be an incentive for them 
to do so. These companies compete to supply this content to FTA networks, 
STV providers and SVOD providers. 
Conclusion – markets for the acquisition of television content 
82. The ACCC concluded that the proposed acquisitions would be unlikely to result 
in a substantial lessening of competition in the markets for the acquisition of 
television content. 
The national markets for the supply of FTA services and supply of 
television viewing services encompassing (at least) both FTA and STV 
services 
83. The ACCC’s preliminary view was that the proposed acquisitions may raise 
competition concerns in the market for the supply of FTA services and a broader 
market that includes both FTA and STV services. This view was based on the 
potential for the proposed acquisitions to reduce the ability of FTAs to compete 
effectively for viewers and advertisers against a more closely aligned Ten and 
Foxtel, potentially leading to a reduction in the quality or choice of FTA television 
programming available to viewers. 
84. As discussed above, premium sports content is important to both FTA networks 
and Foxtel as it provides more consistent ratings than other content, can have a 
‘halo’ effect of increasing overall ratings, allows networks to cross promote and, 
in the case of Foxtel, is critical to attracting subscribers. 
85. The ACCC investigated whether the proposed acquisitions and potential 
alignment of Foxtel, Fox Sports and Ten’s incentives would result in Foxtel and 


 
Page 16 of 18 
Ten obtaining a significantly increased proportion of the rights to premium sports, 
primarily through Foxtel and Ten partnering with each other exclusively when 
bidding for these rights. The ACCC concluded, for a range of reasons including 
those set out above, that this was unlikely to occur. In addition to the reasons set 
out above as to why Foxtel and Ten would not have the ability and incentive to 
exclusively partner for the acquisition of sports rights, there are limits on how 
much sport content a single FTA network could acquire, even in combination 
with Foxtel, due to: 
 
the high cost of premium sports rights 
 
the likelihood of scheduling clashes on the main channel and the reluctance 
of premium sports rights holders to agree to their most popular games being 
shown on multi-channels or STV, and 
 
the likelihood that an FTA network could not satisfy a sporting body that it 
would be able to promote its sport effectively if it held the rights to a major 
competing sport (such as the AFL and NRL). 
86. The ACCC also investigated whether the proposed acquisitions would result in a 
reduction in the quality and quantity of games broadcast on FTA in instances 
where Foxtel and Ten jointly acquire the rights to a sport. For example, this may 
occur through Foxtel seeking to secure rights to a greater share of premium 
sports content to increase its subscription base, with Ten retaining the less 
popular sports content. 
87. The ACCC considered that Ten would only agree to do so if it was also in Ten’s 
best interests. The ACCC also considered that the anti-siphoning regime, as well 
as some bargaining power of sporting bodies (discussed above), and 
competition from independent FTA networks and SVOD providers, would be 
likely to constrain any attempt by Foxtel to work with Ten to shift the most 
popular sporting events to Foxtel. 
88. The anti-siphoning regime states that pay TV broadcasters are prohibited from 
acquiring the rights to televise an event on the anti-siphoning list unless: 
 
the rights are held by commercial television licensees who have the right to 
televise the event to more than 50 per cent of the Australian population 
 
the rights are held by either the ABC or SBS, or 
 
national or commercial television broadcasters have not obtained these 
rights by 12 weeks before the start of the event. 
89. In relation to non-sport content, the ACCC concluded that Ten may in some 
cases, as a result of the proposed acquisitions, be able to compete more 
effectively for high-rating proven content and Foxtel and Ten may be able to 
compete more effectively for content that can be shown (concurrently or at 
different times) on STV and FTA channels. However, as noted above, the ACCC 
found that a large amount of this content is available. Ten and Foxtel would not 
be able to acquire a large enough proportion of this content to create an 
inadequate supply to other FTA networks. 
90. Taking these factors into account, and the fact that Foxtel will have only a 
minority shareholding in Ten, the ACCC concluded that the proposed 
acquisitions would be unlikely to result in a substantial lessening of competition 


 
Page 17 of 18 
in either the market for the supply of FTA services or a broader market that 
includes FTA and STV services. 
The national market for the supply of television advertising services 
91. The ACCC investigated whether the proposed acquisitions may give Foxtel and 
Ten an ability and incentive to coordinate (through MCN) their offers to 
advertisers and whether this would lessen competition in the supply of television 
advertising services, including by reducing the number of independent 
competitors available to advertisers. 
92. The ACCC considered that the proposed acquisitions, and in particular Ten’s 
acquisition of a 24.99% interest in MCN, could increase the ability and incentive 
for Ten and Foxtel to offer bundled advertising packages across their platforms, 
and to integrate their advertising strategies. The ability of MCN to offer packages 
of advertising opportunities across multiple platforms is likely to increase the 
attractiveness of Ten to advertisers and strengthen its ability to compete against 
Seven and Nine. The addition of Ten to MCN will enable it to market directly to 
advertisers who previously would not have considered Foxtel due to its small 
audience share compared to FTA networks. 
93. However, the ACCC considers that advertisers will continue to be able to access 
alternative television advertising services to MCN. Seven and Nine are likely to 
continue to offer attractive advertising opportunities (based on continued access 
to compelling sports and non-sport content) and to have the resources and 
ability to acquire or innovate to develop even more attractive advertising 
opportunities in the future. 
94. The ACCC concluded that the proposed acquisitions would be unlikely to 
substantially lessen competition in the national market for the supply of television 
advertising services. In reaching this conclusion the ACCC also considered that 
as the proposed acquisitions are minority acquisitions, Foxtel and Ten will be 
subject to provisions of the Act other than section 50 which would apply to any 
agreements between them to coordinate or bundle advertising packages. 
The national market for the supply of subscription-video-on-demand 
(SVOD) services 
95. The ACCC considered whether the proposed acquisitions, and in particular 
Ten’s option to acquire a 10% interest in Presto, would raise competition 
concerns by limiting the ability of other SVOD providers to acquire the content 
necessary to compete with Presto. Specifically, the ACCC considered whether 
by bidding jointly for content, Foxtel, Ten and Presto could limit other SVOD 
providers from accessing content necessary to make them effective competitors. 
96. Several new entrants commenced supply of SVOD services in Australia in 2015. 
There has been strong take-up of these services, particularly Netflix, which has 
over one million subscribers in Australia (although some of these subscribers are 
on free trial offers). 
97. These SVOD providers do not currently broadcast sport content, which has most 
value when viewed live. There is a large back catalogue of non-sport content 
available from a range of producers globally, and this currently forms the majority 


 
Page 18 of 18 
of content shown on SVOD platforms. As SVOD providers charge a low monthly 
fee, they typically do not commission a large volume of original content or 
acquire a significant volume of first-run content unless, like Netflix, they have 
global scale which allows them to spread the costs of such content over a large 
subscriber base. 
98. The proposed acquisitions are unlikely to prevent these and other SVOD 
competitors of Presto from being able to acquire enough content to attract a 
sufficient subscriber base to be commercially viable. 
99. The ACCC concluded that the proposed acquisitions would be unlikely to result 
in a substantial lessening of competition in the market for the supply of SVOD 
services. 
Conclusion 
100. The ACCC formed the view that the proposed acquisitions would be unlikely to 
have the effect of substantially lessening competition in any relevant market.  
The ACCC’s decision does not extend to MCN’s arrangement with Ten in 
relation to managing Ten’s advertising sales and supply agreement with Presto, 
which is not subject to the merger provisions of the Act. 
101. The ACCC, however, will closely examine any future acquisitions by the merger 
parties, including where increases in shareholdings are made possible through 
changes to the existing media diversity and control rules. 
102. Unlike most acquisitions reviewed by the ACCC, which result in the target 
coming under the control of the acquirer, the proposed acquisitions involve 
minority interests with limited associated rights, meaning that the merger parties 
will remain separate entities and therefore competitors post acquisition. 
Accordingly, any arrangements between Foxtel, Ten and Presto following the 
proposed acquisitions will be subject to the competition provisions of the Act. 
The ACCC will closely examine any arrangements between Foxtel, Ten and 
Presto which may raise competition concerns. 
