 
 
 
Statement of Issues 
14 September 2015 
Foxtel Management Pty Ltd and Ten Network Holdings Ltd 
proposed acquisitions 
Purpose 
1. 
Outlined below is the Statement of Issues released by the Australian 
Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) in relation to: 
 
Foxtel Management Pty Ltd’s proposed acquisition of up to 15% of Ten 
Network Holdings Ltd (Ten) 
 
Ten’s proposed acquisition of 24.99% of Multi Channel Network Pty Ltd 
(MCN) and 
 
the proposed granting of an option to Ten by Presto TV Pty Ltd (Presto) to 
acquire 10% of Presto, 
(the proposed acquisitions).  
2. 
This Statement of Issues aims to: 
 
give the ACCC’s preliminary views on competition issues arising from 
Foxtel’s proposed acquisitions with Ten 
 
identify areas of further inquiry 
 
give all interested parties an opportunity to comment 
 
invite interested parties to submit information to assist the ACCC’s 
assessment of the issues. 
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views 
3. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition 
is in section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the Act). Section 
50 prohibits acquisitions that substantially lessen competition in a market, or are 
likely to do so.  


 
 
2 
 
4. 
The ACCC divides its preliminary views in this Statement of Issues into two 
categories: 'issues that may raise concerns' and ‘issues unlikely to raise 
concerns’.  
Issues that may raise concerns 
5. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisitions will result in an 
alignment of interests between Foxtel and Ten that may:  
 
favour Ten in the bidding for sports content against other free-to-air (FTA) 
television providers 
 
reduce or even eliminate competition between Foxtel and Ten for the 
supply of advertising services. 
6. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that these effects may substantially lessen 
competition in one or more of the following markets: 
 
markets for the acquisition of television content, particularly sports contents 
 
markets for the supply of FTA television services (including a broader 
market for the supply of television viewing services encompassing both 
FTA and subscription television (STV) services) 
 
markets for the supply of television advertising services. 
Issues unlikely to raise concerns 
7. 
The ACCC does not consider that the proposed acquisitions would be likely to 
cause a substantial lessening of competition in the supply of subscription video 
on demand (SVOD) services to consumers.  
Making a submission 
8. 
The ACCC is seeking submissions from interested parties, particularly on the 
following key issues: 
 
the likely effect of the proposed acquisitions on competition for the 
acquisition of television content, in particular sports content 
 
the likely effect of the proposed acquisitions on competition in the supply of 
FTA television services to consumers  
 
the likely effect of the proposed acquisitions on competition in the supply of 
television viewing services in a broader market encompassing both FTA 
and STV services 
 
the likely effect of the proposed acquisitions on competition for the supply 
of advertising services to advertisers. 
9. 
Detailed discussion of these and other issues, along with specific questions, is 
contained in this Statement of Issues.  


 
 
3 
 
10. 
Interested parties should provide submissions by no later than 5pm on 
28 September 2015. Responses may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with 
the title: Foxtel/Ten proposed acquisitions.  
11. 
The ACCC anticipates making a final decision on 22 October 2015. However, 
this timeline can change. To keep abreast of possible changes to timing and to 
find relevant documents, interested parties should visit the Mergers Register on 
the ACCC's website at www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
Confidentiality of submissions 
12. 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. The 
ACCC will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/ 
consultants) unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of 
information legislation or during court proceedings) or in accordance with 
section 155AAA of the Act. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where possible so that you 
may have an opportunity to be heard. Therefore, if the information provided to 
the ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our Informal 
Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information. 
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’ 
13. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about the 
proposed acquisitions, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well 
as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
14. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties 
(including customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to 
ascertain and consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also 
intended to provide the parties to the proposed acquisitions and other interested 
parties with the basis for making further submissions should they consider it 
necessary. 
Timeline 
Date 
Event 
25 June 2015 
ACCC commenced its review of the proposed 
acquisitions 
14 September 2015 
ACCC publication of Statement of Issues 
28 September 2015 
Closing date for submissions relating to Statement of 
Issues 
22 October 2015 
Proposed date for announcement of ACCC’s final 
decision  


 
 
4 
 
The parties 
Foxtel 
15. 
Foxtel Management Pty Ltd is agent for (and manager of) the Foxtel Partnership 
(together, Foxtel). The partners in the Foxtel Partnership are Telstra Media Pty 
Limited (a wholly owned subsidiary of Telstra Corporation Limited) (Telstra) and 
Sky Cable Pty Limited (which is indirectly a wholly owned subsidiary of News 
Corporation). 
16. 
Foxtel is Australia’s largest STV provider. It delivers audio-visual content to over 
2.6 million Australian subscribers. It also operates the Foxtel Play multiplatform 
subscription audio-visual content service and SVOD service Presto (see below).  
17. 
News Corporation (News Corp) and Telstra each have the right to appoint one-
half of the board of directors of Foxtel. In addition, News Corp has the right to 
appoint the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of Foxtel (while 
Telstra has the right to terminate these officers). 
Ten 
18. 
Ten is an ASX-listed commercial broadcaster that operates three FTA television 
channels in Australia (Ten, Eleven and One). It also operates Tenplay, a 
multiplatform online catch-up service. Ten’s five largest shareholders and their 
shareholdings as at 16 October 20141 were: 
 
Birketu Pty Ltd (a company controlled by Bruce Gordon) 12.62% (with a 
further 1.82% held by Birketu Investments Pty Ltd (also controlled by Bruce 
Gordon) 
 
Hanrine Investments Pty Ltd (a company controlled by Gina Rinehart) 
9.45% 
 
HSBC Custody Nominees (Australia) Limited 9.40% 
 
Illyria Nominees Television Pty Limited (Illyria) (a company controlled by 
Lachlan Murdoch) 8.52% 
 
Aidem Holdings Pty Limited (a company controlled by James Packer) 
8.52%. 
19. 
The current board of Ten comprises: 
 
David Gordon, Chairman and Non-Executive Director (joined the Ten board 
in April 2010) 
 
Brian Long, Deputy Chairman and Lead Independent Director (joined the 
Ten board in July 2010) 
                                                 
 
1 Source: Ten 2014 Annual Review. A notice of change of interests of a substantial holder filed 
on 22 May 2015 indicates that Lazard Asset Management Pacific Co had an interest of 8.83% 
as at that date. 


 
 
5 
 
 
Paul Gleeson, a Director of Ten (joined the Ten board in 1998) 
 
Jack Cowin, a Director of Ten (joined the Ten board in 1998) 
 
Dean Hawkins, a Director of Ten (joined the Ten board in April 2010) 
 
Christine Holgate, a Director of Ten (joined the Ten board in April 2010) 
 
Siobhan McKenna, a director of Ten who was initially appointed to the Ten 
board on 27 June 2012 as a nominee of Cavalane Holdings Pty Ltd 
(controlled by James Packer) and is the managing partner of Illyria Pty Ltd 
(controlled by Lachlan Murdoch) 
 
John Klepec, a Director of Ten who was appointed to the Ten board on 3 
November 2014 as a nominee for Hanrine Investments Pty Ltd (controlled 
by Gina Rinehart). 
Multi Channel Network (MCN) 
20. 
MCN is an advertising business that sells advertising services across a number 
of subscription television channel suppliers whose channels appear on the 
Foxtel platform and on other subscription platforms (e.g. Fetch TV). It also sells 
on-line advertising space for Telstra Media Pty Ltd. 
21. 
Currently, 75% of the shares in MCN are held by Foxtel and 25% are held by 
Fox Sports Australia Pty Ltd (owned by News Corp). 
22. 
On 1 September 2015, MCN commenced acting as Ten's advertising sales 
representative pursuant to a sales representation agreement entered into by 
Ten and MCN in June 2015.  
Presto 
23. 
Presto is an SVOD service that enables subscribers to stream audio-visual 
content from an online library via the internet when they purchase a monthly 
subscription.  
24. 
Presto is a joint venture between Seven West Media Limited (Seven) and 
Foxtel. 
Other industry participants 
News Corporation (News Corp) 
25. 
News Corp is the ultimate parent company of News Corp Australia Pty Limited 
(formerly News Limited), which is the owner of The Australian, the Herald Sun, 
and numerous other newspapers. 
26. 
News Corp is one of the owners of Foxtel through its indirect ownership of Sky 
Cable Pty Limited. 
27. 
News Corp is also the owner of Fox Sports Australia Pty Limited (Fox Sports), 
an Australian group of sports channels that is broadcast on Foxtel. 


 
 
6 
 
28. 
Rupert Murdoch is the Executive Chairman and Lachlan Murdoch is the 
Executive Co-Chairman of News Corp. The Murdoch Family Trust holds 38.4% 
of the voting B class common stock in News Corporation (with Rupert Murdoch 
holding a further 1% interest).2  
Fox Sports 
29. 
Fox Sports compiles and produces the FOX SPORTS 1, FOX SPORTS 2, FOX 
SPORTS 3, FOX SPORTS 4, FOX SPORTS 5, FOX FOOTY and FOX 
SPORTS News subscription television channels, available via the Foxtel 
platform. It also produces sporting coverage and broadcasts sporting content on 
Foxtel’s internet TV service, Foxtel Play, Foxtel on T-box, and Foxtel Go App. It 
is owned by News Corp Australia Pty Limited. 
Seven West Media Network (Seven) 
30. 
Seven West Media Limited is an ASX-listed multi-platform media company. 
Seven operates three FTA television channels in Australia (Seven, 7TWO and 
7mate). Seven also distributes content through its Yahoo!7 joint venture, 
including its online catch-up service PLUS7, and has an interest in the 
Australian News Channel (ANC), which owns and operates Sky News in 
Australia in addition to other channels. As noted above, it also has an interest in 
Presto. 
Nine Network 
31. 
The Nine Network (Nine), owned by the ASX-listed Nine Entertainment Co, 
operates three free-to-air television channels (Nine, GO! and GEM) and 
distributes content through its online catch-up service, 9Jumpin. Nine also owns 
50% of Stan, an SVOD service. 
ABC 
32. 
The Australian Broadcasting Corporation is Australia’s national public 
broadcaster that operates several FTA channels (ABC1, ABC2, ABC3, ABC 4 
Kids and ABC News 24) and also distributes content via its online catch-up 
service, ABC iView.  
SBS 
33. 
The Special Broadcasting Service is a national public broadcaster that operates 
under the Special Broadcasting Services Act 1991 (Cth). It has a mandate to 
reflect the multicultural nature of Australian society. It operates three FTA 
channels (SBS ONE, SBS TWO and NITV) and also distributes content online 
through its website.  
Fetch TV 
34. 
Fetch TV is an Australian internet protocol television (IPTV) subscription 
television service that combines FTA television viewing with video recording 
functions, a movie-on-demand service, and other premium channels including 
                                                 
 
2 News Corp 2015 Proxy Statement. 


 
 
7 
 
ESPN, MTV, National Geographic, Animal Planet, BBC World News and CCTV 
News. 
Netflix 
35. 
Netflix is a US SVOD service provider. It has a library of content which it 
acquires or produces. Netflix launched in Australia in March 2015 and is 
currently the largest SVOD service provider. 
Stan  
36. 
Stan is an Australian SVOD service provider. It is a joint venture between Nine 
and Fairfax Media Ltd. Stan launched in Australia in January 2015. 
Endemol Shine  
37. 
Endemol Shine Group (Endemol Shine), a 50:50 joint venture between 21st 
Century Fox and Apollo Management, is a global content creator, producer and 
distributor with over 600 scripted and non-scripted formats3 across operations 
spanning more than 30 countries. 
38. 
Its Australian division is Endemol Shine Australia which is Australia’s largest 
television production house with formats including MasterChef, The Voice, Big 
Brother, The Bachelor, and The Biggest Loser.  
39. 
Rupert Murdoch and Lachlan Murdoch are Co-Chairmen of 21st Century Fox 
and James Murdoch is Chief Executive Officer. The Murdoch Family Trust holds 
38.4% of the voting B class common stock in 21st Century Fox (with Rupert 
Murdoch holding a further 0.7% interest).4  
Industry background 
The changing media landscape 
40. 
Significant technological developments in the media industry have led to rapid 
changes in how audio-visual content is consumed. Greater take-up of 
broadband services in Australia has facilitated significant growth in the amount 
of audio-visual content consumed online on multiple devices, including 
smartphones, smart TVs and tablets.  
41. 
Internet-based content delivery services allow consumers to view content when, 
where and how they want it. SVOD services such as Presto, Netflix and Stan 
have been successful in attracting customers and are continuing to grow their 
subscriber bases. FTA and STV providers have recently changed the way they 
deliver services, either increasing the amount of their content available online or 
reducing the prices for their services. For example, Seven recently announced 
that it will stream its FTA channels online and Foxtel has restructured the pricing 
of its channel packages, with its basic package reduced from $49 per month to 
$25 per month in November 2014.  
                                                 
 
3 ‘Format’ refers to the overall concept and branding of a copyrighted television program. 
4 21St Century Fox SEC filing - Schedule 13G/A filed by Cruden Financial Services LLC on 13 
February 2015. 


 
 
8 
 
42. 
As a result of structural changes in the media industry and changes to 
consumers’ viewing patterns, traditional audio-visual broadcasters are offering a 
mix of both linear and on-demand content distribution to maintain their 
audiences as consumers’ viewing patterns change. Importantly, broadcasters 
are increasingly offering content that consumers prefer to watch live in order to 
maintain their audience share. This type of content, which is known as 
‘appointment viewing’ or ‘water cooler programs’, includes live sport, Australian-
produced reality TV shows and news.  
Audio-visual advertising services  
43. 
Advertisers can advertise their products on a number of platforms, including 
television, online, radio and print. Advertisers typically seek to advertise across 
a range of platforms in order to maximise their reach as well as to target specific 
demographic characteristics. 
44. 
For some categories of advertising, television is an important medium for 
advertisers because it combines visual imagery, sound and movement, and it 
has the ability to reach large audiences. 
45. 
Media buyers (or media agencies) are often engaged by advertisers to 
negotiate the terms on which advertising is purchased from the various media 
providers and broadcasters.  
The proposed acquisitions of minority shareholdings 
46. 
The proposed acquisitions by Foxtel and Ten comprise: 
 
an investment by Foxtel of $77 million in Ten as part of a broader equity 
raising, which will result in Foxtel acquiring up to 15% of the issued share 
capital of Ten 
 
the acquisition by Ten of a 24.99% stake in MCN 
 
an option being granted to Ten by Presto for two years to acquire a 10% 
shareholding in Presto. 
47. 
The three separate but related proposed acquisitions will be considered within 
this Statement of Issues. 
48. 
The proposed acquisitions are subject to ACCC approval. 
49. 
Ten has also entered into other arrangements with MCN and Presto. In 
particular, Ten has appointed MCN as sales representative of Ten’s television 
and digital advertising inventory from 1 September 2015 and Ten proposes to 
provide selected programming content and some advertising to Presto in the 
period prior to any exercise by Ten of the option to acquire an interest in Presto. 
These arrangements are not subject to section 50, but may be subject to other 
provisions of Part IV of the Act.  They also form part of the competitive 
landscape in which the ACCC is assessing the proposed acquisitions.  
50. 
Given the proposed acquisitions involve minority shareholdings, the ACCC is 
considering the extent to which these shareholdings (on their own or together 


 
 
9 
 
with any aligned interests) result in an alignment of incentives between Foxtel, 
Ten, MCN, and Presto. 
51. 
With respect to Foxtel’s proposed acquisition, the ACCC considers that Foxtel’s 
proposed 15% minority shareholding in Ten needs to be considered in the 
context of the following: 
 
the proposed changes to the Ten board, including a Foxtel nominee director, 
the reduction in the size of the board from eight directors to six, the 
proposed composition of the board with two independent directors (one as 
chair) and representatives from three other major shareholders, and other 
confidential information provided by the parties in relation to governance and 
related arrangements  
 
the relationships or links between the parties and the other major 
shareholders in Ten and the extent to which the interests of any other major 
shareholder of Ten may align with those of Foxtel and Ten in specific 
circumstances (where, for example, a decision may be commercially 
advantageous to each of Ten, Foxtel and that other shareholder). To the 
extent those circumstances exist, this may impact on the ability of Foxtel to 
influence Ten or simply for Foxtel and Ten to act in a manner that is in their 
mutual interests. In particular, the ACCC is considering: 
o the extent to which the interests of Lachlan Murdoch, who has an 
8.52% interest in Ten (through Illyria) and is also Executive Co-
Chairman of News Corp (and may have interests in News Corp through 
the Murdoch Family Trust), may align with those of Foxtel in light of 
News Corp’s 50% interest in Foxtel and 100% interest in Fox Sports  
o the fact that Mr Murdoch was previously interim Chief Executive Officer 
of Ten, Chairman of Ten and a member of the Ten board, and has 
significant experience and reputation in the media industry 
o the fact that, in the period 23 November 2010 to 26 March 2014, Mr 
Murdoch (through IIIyria) had an agreement with another substantial 
shareholder controlled by Mr Packer in relation to acting in concert 
when exercising votes attached to their respective shareholdings in 
Ten. Mr Packer remains a major shareholder of Ten through Aidem 
Holdings Pty Limited  
o whether, if the interests of Foxtel and Mr Murdoch are aligned, this 
would be in effect the largest shareholding block in Ten. 
 
the potential significance and importance of the Foxtel investment in Ten, 
the relationship between Ten and MCN (controlled by Foxtel), and the 10% 
option in Presto in relation to Ten’s future operations and strategic direction. 
52. 
The ACCC acknowledges that directors on the Ten board are required to act in 
the best interests of Ten in accordance with their statutory and fiduciary duties 
and with any board protocols in place.  However there may be circumstances in 
which nominee directors can act both in the best interests of Ten and of their 
respective companies when making decisions.  


 
 
10 
 
53. 
The ACCC also acknowledges that major shareholders without any links or 
relationships to the parties, assuming they have board representation, may 
serve as a disruptive influence on any influence exerted by Foxtel over Ten. 
54. 
The ACCC is considering similar issues with respect to Ten’s minority 
acquisition in MCN and the proposed option for Ten to acquire 10% of Presto.  
Future with and without the acquisitions  
55. 
Section 50 of the Act prohibits mergers or acquisitions that would have the 
effect or be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a 
market.  
56. 
In assessing a proposed acquisition pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the 
ACCC considers the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future 
competitive environment post-acquisition if the acquisition proceeds (the “with” 
position) to the likely future competitive environment if the acquisition does not 
proceed (the “without” position) to determine whether the proposed acquisition 
is likely to substantially lessen competition in any relevant market. 
57. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the likely competition effects of the 
proposed acquisitions are most appropriately assessed against a future without 
the acquisitions in which Ten, MCN and Presto continue their current operations 
under their current ownership (the status quo).  
Market definition 
58. 
The ACCC assesses the competitive effects of proposed acquisitions in relevant 
markets. The starting point for defining relevant markets involves identifying the 
products actually or potentially supplied by the merger parties. The ACCC then 
considers what other products constitute sufficiently close substitutes to provide 
a significant source of constraint on the merged entity. 
59. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the following markets are relevant to its 
review of the proposed acquisitions: 
 
the national market for the supply of FTA television services  
 
the national market for the supply of STV services 
 
a broader market for the supply of television viewing services 
encompassing (at least) both FTA and STV services 
 
the national market for the supply of SVOD services 
 
the national market(s) for the acquisition of television content (including 
possible markets, or sub-markets, for the acquisition of sports content and 
premium Australian original content)  
 
the national market for the supply of television advertising services. 
60. 
The ACCC recognises that convergence within the media industry is increasing 
the substitutability of services provided over different platforms, including FTA, 
STV and SVOD. While the take-up of SVOD services is currently low as a 
percentage of the Australian population, take-up has grown very rapidly since 
new SVOD providers entered the Australian market this year.  


 
 
11 
 
61. 
The ACCC notes that differences in pricing models5, the type of content 
delivered on different platforms, and the equipment, devices and 
complementary services needed to view content on different platforms are likely 
to limit the degree of substitutability of FTA, STV and SVOD services for many 
viewers (and potential viewers). For example, while SVOD services may provide 
some content (such as TV programs and movies) comparable to that available 
on FTA and STV channels, the ability of many consumers to effectively stream 
this content is currently restricted by the limited availability of a sufficiently fast 
and stable internet connection (which reduces the quality of the viewing 
experience).  
62. 
In addition, substitutability between platforms differs for particular types of 
content. Of particular relevance to the proposed acquisition, there is greater 
substitutability between FTA and STV services for sports content than between 
either of these services and SVOD services because very limited amounts of 
sports content are currently offered by SVOD providers. 
63. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that a broader market for television services 
that encompasses (at least) both FTA and STV services is relevant to its review. 
While FTA services are each other’s closest substitutes and have been defined 
as a separate market, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that STV is likely to be the 
next closest substitute and hence it is also relevant to define a broader market.  
The ACCC does not consider that it is necessary to reach a view on whether the 
broader market includes SVOD services, given these services are currently 
unlikely to be a close substitute for FTA and STV services for viewers of sport 
content and premium reality television shows (which comprised the top ten most 
popular types of content on FTA and STV television in 2014, according to 
OzTAM figures). 
64. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary view of 
the relevant markets. 
Market inquiries 
65. 
On 3 July 2015 the ACCC commenced market inquiries regarding the proposed 
acquisitions. A wide range of interested parties have provided responses. 
66. 
Market inquiries have indicated a diversity of views about the proposed 
acquisitions. Some market participants have expressed the view that Ten’s 
ability to compete in the relevant markets may be strengthened by the capital 
injection arising from Foxtel’s investment in Ten.  
67. 
Ten has ranked third in terms of ratings after Nine and Seven for much of its 
history. Over the last three years, however, Ten experienced a further decline in 
its ratings and its share of FTA advertising revenues had declined relative to 
Seven and Nine. While Ten’s audience share has improved recently, its share 
of FTA advertising revenues remains significantly below that of Seven and Nine 
and is less than its share of audiences (that is, Ten’s ‘power ratio’, which 
                                                 
 
5 For example, SVOD providers and Foxtel have different subscription charging models (with 
Foxtel also carrying some advertising), whereas FTA providers do not charge viewers a 
subscription fee but effectively ‘charge’ viewers by providing programming content bundled with 
advertising. 


 
 
12 
 
measures the ratio of advertising revenue share to audience share, is 
historically low). Ten’s financial performance has also declined in recent years, 
as discussed in Ten’s half-year financial results released in April 2015. 
68. 
To assist it in reaching a final decision, the ACCC is seeking further evidence 
and submissions from market participants in relation to whether or not the 
proposed acquisitions may lead to a substantial lessening of competition in the 
relevant markets.  
Issues that may raise concerns: 
Markets for the acquisition of television content 
69. 
The effect of the proposed acquisitions in aligning the interests of Ten and 
Foxtel may be to limit the ability of other FTA providers to compete: 
 
for the acquisition of sports content  
 
for the acquisition of non-sport content, including premium Australian 
original content. 
70. 
Each of these concerns is discussed below. 
The acquisition of sports content 
71. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisitions may raise competition 
concerns in relation to the acquisition of sports content by aligning the 
incentives that Foxtel, Fox Sports and Ten have to enter into joint bids and other 
commercial arrangements for the acquisition of sports rights in a manner that 
reduces the ability of the other FTA networks to compete for those rights. Fox 
Sports and Foxtel may decide to favour partnering with Ten in bidding for the 
acquisition of sports content. 
72. 
Being able to come to such arrangements with Fox Sports or Foxtel would 
enhance Ten’s ability to acquire the FTA rights to sports content, especially 
premium sports content, leading to improved ratings and a greater ability to 
attract advertising revenue. Ten would therefore have a strong incentive to enter 
into such arrangements with Fox Sports or Foxtel. 
73. 
Foxtel’s acquisition of an interest in Ten would, by giving Ten a substantial 
capital injection, augment and support Ten’s ability to bid for premium sports 
(and other) content and improve its ratings and advertising revenues. 
74. 
The ACCC is considering whether the proposed acquisitions will enhance the 
alignment of incentives between Foxtel, Fox Sports and Ten and may give Fox 
Sports and Foxtel an incentive to enter into such arrangements (where they are 
mutually beneficial). Foxtel’s acquisition of an interest in Ten would result in 
Foxtel (and ultimately News Corp) obtaining a financial return from entering into 
such arrangements with Ten. 
75. 
The alignment of the interests of Fox Sports, Foxtel and Ten may lead Fox 
Sports and Foxtel to favour Ten over its FTA competitors in bidding for the 
acquisition of sports content. This would be likely to reduce the ability of other 
FTA networks, that do not have similar arrangements, to compete for the 
acquisition of this content in certain circumstances, including where:  


 
 
13 
 
 
sporting rights holders prefer to sell their rights, in particular their premium 
sports rights, in a package. Where it is commercially unattractive for a single 
FTA network to acquire or broadcast the entire package, an FTA network will 
have an incentive to enter into a commercial arrangement with Foxtel for it to 
broadcast the matches or events that are surplus to its own requirements.  
 
the broadcast rights to a sporting event are likely to be split between FTA and 
STV providers. The ability of an FTA network to partner with Fox Sports or 
Foxtel to negotiate and present a unified bid to the sporting rights holder may 
be advantageous. Bidding in this way enables any potential conflicts between 
FTA and STV scheduling interests to be resolved by the successful bidders, 
rather than requiring the rights holder to attempt to reconcile inconsistent bids 
from separate FTA and STV networks.  
 
due to the high cost of producing live sport, there are significant commercial 
benefits from sharing production costs between the FTA and STV networks 
that enter into commercial arrangements for the acquisition of sports content.  
76. 
These commercial considerations mean that the ability to jointly bid or enter into 
commercial arrangements with Fox Sports or Foxtel in relation to the acquisition 
of sporting rights may enable an FTA network to submit higher value or 
otherwise more attractive bids for sporting rights.  
77. 
In addition, the operation of the Federal Government’s anti-siphoning regime, 
which states that certain sports content must be offered to FTA networks before 
it is offered to an STV provider, creates an imperative for Foxtel to partner with 
an FTA network in the acquisition of listed events. While the sporting events on 
the anti-siphoning list are not required to be broadcast on an FTA network, 
Foxtel is unable to acquire or broadcast these rights (where they have been 
acquired by Fox Sports or News Corp), unless they have first been offered to an 
FTA network. The effect of the anti-siphoning regime is likely to further align the 
interests of Fox Sports, Foxtel and Ten to coordinate in bidding for these rights.  
78. 
The ACCC’s market inquiries have indicated that while SVOD providers may 
enter the markets for the acquisition of sports rights in future, they are not likely 
to acquire a significant amount of premium sporting rights in the near future. 
Therefore, for the foreseeable future, Fox Sports and Foxtel are effectively the 
only parties in Australia with whom FTA networks can enter into commercial 
arrangements in relation to the acquisition of sporting rights packages (for both 
FTA and STV) from rights holders. 
79. 
The ACCC understands that Fox Sports acquires a large volume of sports 
content and often enters into commercial arrangements with FTA networks for 
the acquisition of sports rights. Foxtel also acquires sports rights (although 
fewer than Fox Sports) and sometimes enters into commercial arrangements 
with FTA networks for those rights.  
80. 
For example, a broadcast deal for the AFL was recently announced, with Foxtel 
(through News Corp), Seven and Telstra to hold the STV, FTA and digital rights 
from 2017 to 2022. Other examples where an FTA network has previously 
entered into commercial agreements with Fox Sports or Foxtel to acquire those 
rights, and may do so again in the future, include Australian Rugby Test 
matches, V8 Supercars, Australian Masters Golf, Wimbledon, the Rugby World 
Cup and the Cricket World Cup. 


 
 
14 
 
81. 
The ACCC recognises that some sports rights are acquired by an FTA network 
without the involvement of an STV broadcaster. For example, Nine has recently 
entered into an agreement with the National Rugby League (NRL) for the 
broadcast of four live games per week from 2018 to 2022 without entering into 
an agreement with Foxtel. No agreement has been reached for the broadcast of 
the remaining games but given the lack of alternative STV broadcasters 
currently offering sports content, it is likely that they will ultimately be broadcast 
on Foxtel, which may also simulcast the matches shown on Nine.  
82. 
Examples of sports rights being acquired in full by an FTA network without the 
involvement of an STV broadcaster include the Summer and Winter Olympics, 
Australian test cricket series, the Melbourne Cup, Australian Open Tennis, and 
Australian Open Golf.  
83. 
The ACCC notes that the AFL and NRL rights deals referred to above were both 
concluded prior to the proposed acquisitions. While Foxtel has secured AFL 
rights and is likely to continue to broadcast NRL matches, the fact that these 
deals will be in effect until 2022 will reduce Ten’s ability to secure these rights 
for the duration of the agreements. However, Foxtel has the right to sub-licence 
one AFL game each round during the term of the agreement and there has 
been speculation that if it does the game will be broadcast on Ten. Since the 
NRL has not yet assigned all of the rights to its content, there may be the 
potential, subject to the contractual arrangements with Nine, for Foxtel and Ten 
to acquire some or all of these remaining rights.  
84. 
The ACCC understands that some sporting rights holders may have significant 
bargaining power because of the importance of premium sports content to both 
Foxtel and the FTA networks, which may limit the risk of harm to competition 
from the proposed acquisitions. Sporting rights holders typically seek to 
optimise the overall benefits to them by balancing the greater audiences 
available on FTA networks (which assist them to build and maintain the 
popularity of their sport over time) and the greater revenues possible from 
selling exclusive rights to an STV network. The ACCC is aware that sporting 
rights holders may include certain provisions, such as ‘must show’ clauses in 
rights contracts to prevent an FTA network or Fox Sports from on-selling 
exclusive rights to certain games or events to an STV provider so that they 
achieve an optimal balance between revenue and greater audience reach. 
85. 
In addition to concerns in relation to the acquisition of sports content as outlined 
above, the ACCC is also concerned that Ten may be less likely as a result of 
the proposed acquisitions to compete against Foxtel for sporting rights for non-
premium sports content.  
86. 
The FTA networks typically do not compete strongly with Foxtel for the rights to 
non-premium sports because these sports usually do not attract large enough 
audiences for the FTA broadcasters, as their advertising revenues are based to 
a large degree on their ratings performance. In contrast, Foxtel raises a large 
proportion of its revenue through subscriptions, enabling it to respond to the 
intensity of viewer preferences, and offers a wide range of programming 
designed to appeal to a diversity of subscribers and to differentiate itself from 
FTA content which is available at no charge to viewers. Foxtel therefore has an 
incentive to acquire a range of sports content, for both premium and less 
popular sports, because of its importance in attracting subscribers. The ACCC 


 
 
15 
 
understands that Foxtel currently offers 68 channels, nine of which are 
dedicated to sport.  
87. 
The ACCC understands that FTA networks are likely to compete with Foxtel to 
acquire the rights to non-premium sports content when the popularity of a sport 
grows. For example, in 2012 SBS acquired the rights to some of the A-League 
soccer matches which were previously only aired on Foxtel. FTA networks may 
also compete with Foxtel to acquire rights to non-premium sports content when 
they consider there is a real potential to build a larger television audience for 
that sport by promoting it on an FTA channel. For example, in 2013 Ten 
acquired the rights to the Big Bash League cricket tournament that had 
previously been aired exclusively on Foxtel. The ACCC is concerned that the 
proposed acquisitions may weaken Ten’s incentive to compete aggressively 
with Foxtel for these and similar rights.  
88. 
The ACCC is concerned that a reduction in competition for the acquisition of 
sports content may result in some holders of non-premium sports rights 
receiving less for their rights and having less opportunity to build their supporter 
base through exposure to the greater audiences potentially available on FTA 
networks. In turn, this could reduce their ability to raise revenue from other 
sources, such as memberships and sponsorships. 
89. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on: 
 
the importance to an FTA network of being able to partner with Fox Sports and/or 
Foxtel in relation to the acquisition of sports rights  
 
the likelihood of an FTA network being able to partner with a commercially viable 
alternative to Foxtel when bidding for sports rights 
 
whether the proposed acquisitions are likely to lessen competition for the 
acquisition of non-premium sports 
 
whether the bargaining power of sports rights holders and their incentive to 
increase reach would prevent a substantial lessening of competition in the 
acquisition of sports rights 
 
the effect of the proposed acquisitions on the price paid to rights owners for 
broadcast rights. 
The acquisition of non-sport content, including premium Australian original content 
90. 
The ACCC is considering whether the alignment of incentives associated with 
the proposed acquisitions may lead Foxtel, Ten and Presto to enter into 
commercial agreements to acquire the rights to certain non-sports content 
across all platforms (i.e. STV, FTA and SVOD) on an exclusive basis and 
control release windows6 for that content to the detriment of their competitors.  
                                                 
 
6 ‘Release windows’ – the time period in which content is shown on a particular platform, such 
as first-run rights, second-run rights, and so on. 


 
 
16 
 
91. 
The ACCC understands that content acquirers already seek to control the time 
period before the rights to content are made available for broadcasting on other 
platforms by acquiring ‘holdback’ rights in relation to the content.  
92. 
The ACCC’s market inquiries have indicated that premium Australian original 
content is increasingly important for a television broadcaster to attract 
audiences and, in the case of Foxtel, subscribers. The ACCC is considering 
market concerns that as a result of the Murdoch family’s interests in 21st 
Century Fox, the proposed acquisitions would be likely to give Ten an 
advantage in the acquisition of premium prime time original Australian content 
from Endemol Shine, which is Australia’s largest television production house 
and owns the rights to the formats for high-quality, high-rating Australian 
programming. 
93. 
If the proposed acquisitions have the effect of aligning the incentives of 
Endemol Shine with Ten (through the common ownership interests in each of 
News Corp and 21st Century Fox), this may result in Ten gaining a position of 
advantage in acquiring premium Australian original content relative to 
competing FTA providers.  
94. 
These potential effects of the proposed acquisitions may lessen competition in 
the relevant market for the acquisition of non-sport content, result in some 
producers of non-sport content receiving less for their rights, and lead to a 
reduction in either the quantity or quality of non-sport programming available to 
FTA viewers.  
95. 
Based on the information available to it, the ACCC understands that premium 
non-sport content differs from premium sports content in several ways: 
 
Non-sport content does not have the enduring brand loyalty of premium sports, 
for which viewer interest is generally consistent over many years. Viewer 
interest in non-sport programs and formats fluctuates over time as tastes in 
such content change more rapidly. Innovative program ideas and formats can 
quickly attract significant audiences and ratings from existing programs and 
formats.  
 
There is competition for formats. Popular formats may change hands, by being 
acquired by another production house or by an FTA network or STV provider. 
 
Differentiation by STV providers and FTA networks may limit the extent to 
which they compete for the same non-sport content. In 2014, of the top 20 
most popular programs on FTA networks (in the five main capital cities), ten 
were reality television shows, eight were sports programs and two were 
episodes of a new-release television mini-series; for STV providers, 18 of the 
top 20 were sports and the other two were popular recent movies (according to 
OzTAM figures).  
96. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on: 
 
the extent to which Ten, Foxtel and Presto will have aligned incentives to enter into 
commercial agreements to acquire the rights to certain non-sports content across 
STV, FTA and SVOD platforms 


 
 
17 
 
 
the extent to which content acquirers currently acquire holdback rights to control 
the time period before the rights to content are made available for broadcasting on 
other platforms and the significance of holdback rights for the ability of FTA 
networks to acquire premium non-sport content 
 
the likely effect of Ten, Foxtel and Presto acting together to acquire the rights to 
certain non-sports content on the ability of other FTA networks to acquire 
compelling non-sports content  
 
the extent to which the proposed acquisitions would be likely to result in Ten 
gaining a position of advantage in acquiring premium Australian original content 
relative to competing FTA providers 
 
whether the proposed acquisitions would be likely to align the incentives of 
Endemol Shine and Ten, which would place Ten in a position of advantage in 
acquiring premium Australian original content relative to competing FTA providers. 
 
the ability of FTA and STV providers to acquire or produce compelling non-sport 
content, including innovative programs and formats 
 
the extent to which STV providers and FTA networks compete for the same types 
of premium non-sport content 
Supply of FTA television services and supply of television viewing services 
encompassing both FTA and STV services 
97. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisitions may 
substantially lessen competition in the supply of FTA services to consumers and 
in a broader market for the supply of television viewing services encompassing 
both FTA and STV.  
98. 
The ACCC is concerned that Ten’s FTA competitors may be less able to 
engage in direct competition with Ten for viewers and advertisers following the 
proposed acquisitions, potentially leading to a reduction in the quality or choice 
of FTA television programming available to viewers. 
99. 
Based on the information available to it, the ACCC considers that premium 
sports are an extremely important part of an FTA network’s program offering. 
Premium sports provide an FTA network with a high degree of ratings certainty, 
as viewer interest in major sports is generally consistent over many years, 
whereas interest in other programs or formats fluctuates more rapidly over time. 
The consistent ratings of major sports enable FTA networks to implement cross 
promotion and lead in strategies around sporting events, leading to a ratings 
‘halo’ effect whereby broadcasting premium sports increases the network’s 
ratings overall. These benefits cause FTA networks to spend a significant 
proportion of their programming budgets on the acquisition of premium sports 
rights. 
100. Sports content is also very important to Foxtel for attracting subscribers. As 
noted above, the ACCC understands that Fox Sports acquires a large volume of 
sports content, which is broadcast on Foxtel’s sports channels and Foxtel also 
acquires sports rights in its own right. 


 
 
18 
 
101. The ACCC considers that the benefits to FTA networks and STV providers of 
having the rights to premium sporting events are unlikely to decrease in the 
foreseeable future. In fact, the ACCC considers that these benefits are likely to 
continue as ratings for live sporting events are unlikely to be affected by other 
forms of audio-visual distribution such as ‘on demand’ viewing over the internet. 
The ACCC notes that five of the top ten FTA programs in 2014 were sports 
content (based on OzTAM figures). 
102. Given the importance of premium sports content to an FTA network’s ability to 
compete strongly with other FTA networks and with STV providers for viewers 
and advertisers, the ACCC is concerned that the advantage Ten could gain in 
acquiring sporting content (discussed above) may lead to a substantial 
lessening of competition in a broad market for television viewing services that 
includes (at least) FTA and STV services. 
103. Foxtel competes for viewers with the FTA networks, and the FTA networks 
compete with each other and with Foxtel, by offering compelling content that 
cannot be seen on their competitors’ platforms (or cannot be seen without a 
delay that reduces its value to viewers). Sport is a key element of this 
competition, because of viewers’ high and consistent interest in the major sports 
and because the value of sports content is greatest when shown live. Exclusive 
rights to sports content, and rights to broadcast an entire sporting series or 
season, are particularly important to Foxtel, in building and maintaining its 
subscriber base as many viewers are willing to pay to see all games or events 
live for the sports they follow. 
104. Bidding partners for any sporting rights are also rivals at the margin, both 
wishing to optimise their share of the rights (for example, an FTA broadcaster 
will wish to show more and better live games, whereas Foxtel will wish to 
maximise its level of exclusive rights). Market inquiries raised concerns that if 
there is an alignment of Foxtel, Fox Sports and Ten’s incentives flowing from 
the proposed acquisitions, the outcome of any joint bid between Ten and Foxtel 
(or Fox Sports) may be more and/or better games being shown exclusively on 
Foxtel compared to the outcome of a joint bid or arrangement between Foxtel 
and an FTA broadcaster in which it did not hold a significant shareholding. This 
strengthening of Foxtel’s sports rights position would reduce the competitive 
constraint imposed on Foxtel by FTA services and increase its ability to attract 
subscribers and to charge higher subscription rates, and would also serve to 
further entrench Foxtel’s dominance in STV broadcasting. 
105. It has been argued that the relatively low level of penetration of STV in Australia 
compared to, for example, the UK and the US, is in part due to the anti-
siphoning regime and that a tie up between Foxtel and Ten could significantly 
alter the competitive landscape. 
106. The ACCC is considering whether, as a result of the proposed acquisitions, the 
alignment of incentives would lead to Ten granting Foxtel exclusive rights to 
broadcast more high-rating games or events live on Foxtel. This may be likely to 
occur where Foxtel and Ten benefit from such arrangements to the detriment of 
Ten’s FTA competitors. 
107. Given the importance of premium sports content to Foxtel’s ability to compete 
strongly with the FTA networks (and vice versa), the ACCC is concerned that if 
such arrangements were put in place, it may lead to a substantial lessening of 


 
 
19 
 
competition in a broader market for the supply of television services that 
includes FTA and STV services. 
108. However, the ACCC is also considering the alternative view, put by some 
market participants, that such arrangements may strengthen Ten’s ability to 
compete with other FTA networks, particularly Seven and Nine, which recently 
obtained rights to AFL and NRL games respectively, in the narrower market for 
the supply of FTA television services. 
109. The ACCC is also considering whether some sporting rights holders may seek 
to prevent arrangements between Foxtel and Ten that granted Foxtel exclusive 
rights to broadcast more high-rating games or events live on Foxtel and fewer, 
or less popular, games or events live on FTA television.  
110. As noted above in the context of sports rights, the ACCC understands that 
some sporting rights holders may have significant bargaining power because of 
the importance of premium sports content to both Foxtel and the FTA networks, 
and that sporting rights holders typically seek to use this power to optimise the 
overall benefits of audience reach and revenue.  
111. In relation to non-premium sports content, the ACCC is concerned that, where 
FTA networks compete with Foxtel to acquire the rights to this sports content, 
the proposed acquisitions may weaken Ten’s incentive to compete aggressively 
with Foxtel for these rights. This could result in a reduction in competition for the 
acquisition of this content by FTA networks (as previously discussed) and lead 
to FTA consumers receiving a lower quality or quantity of games or events 
compared to the likely scenario absent the acquisitions. On the other hand, the 
ACCC is considering whether any such coordination by Ten/Foxtel could 
provide an incentive for Seven and Nine to acquire such content, including 
whether the expansion of FTA to multi-channels has increased their incentive to 
acquire, and ability to broadcast, a wider range of sports content. 
112. The ACCC is also concerned that the proposed acquisitions may further 
weaken competition for the supply of FTA services through their effect on the 
acquisition of non-sport content, particularly in relation to premium (that is, high 
rating) original Australian content.  
113. Ten’s likely advantage in acquiring premium sports content post-acquisition 
could allow it to leverage that advantage into the market for the acquisition of 
non-sport content (though the ‘halo’ effect)—a strategy that may be denied to 
other FTA networks as a result of the proposed acquisitions. 
114. Such an advantage for Ten would be likely to result in lower ratings for the other 
FTA networks, which would reduce their ability to attract advertising revenues. 
Lower advertising revenues would reduce their capacity to compete in acquiring 
compelling non-sport content, further lessen competition in the television 
viewing market and lead to a reduction in either the quantity or quality of non-
sport programming available to FTA viewers. 
115. Similar to the situation for sports content, the proposed acquisitions could, by 
aligning Foxtel’s and Ten’s incentives, result in arrangements for the 
coordinated acquisition of non-sport content result in more compelling content 
being acquired by Foxtel to the detriment of FTA networks other than Ten. 
However, the ACCC is also considering whether any such coordination may 
give the other FTA networks an incentive (and whether they would have the 


 
 
20 
 
ability) to acquire or produce compelling non-sport content to offset any attempt 
to damage their capacity to attract viewers. 
116. The ACCC invites comments from market participants on: 
 
the importance of sports content to FTA networks and Foxtel, including the 
significance of any ‘halo’ effect on overall ratings 
 
the likely effect of the proposed acquisitions on competition between Foxtel and 
FTA networks, and among FTA networks, for viewers based on their ability to 
obtain premium sports content 
 
the extent to which sporting bodies are able to determine when and where their 
games or events are broadcast on FTA and STV networks, including any views on 
the significance of the recent NRL and AFL broadcasting deals for competition for 
the acquisition of sports content and in the supply of FTA and STV services  
 
the effect of the proposed acquisitions on the scheduling of sporting content, the 
quantity of sporting content shown on FTA television and the impact on the quality 
of FTA television for viewers 
 
the effect of the proposed acquisitions on the ability of Foxtel’s and Ten’s FTA 
competitors to acquire compelling non-sport content and compete for television 
viewers 
 
the likely effect of the proposed acquisitions on competition between Foxtel and 
FTA networks, and among FTA networks, for viewers based on their ability to 
obtain premium non-sport content. 
Reduced competition for the supply of television advertising services 
117. As noted above, the proposed acquisitions may reduce the competing FTA 
networks’ ability to acquire the compelling sports and non-sport content needed 
to attract audiences and maintain or increase their ratings. This would reduce 
their ability to attract advertising. Over time, this may weaken the competitive 
pressure exerted by the other FTA networks and lead to higher prices for 
advertisers. 
118. The ACCC is also concerned that the acquisitions may give Foxtel and Ten an 
incentive to coordinate (through MCN) their offers to advertisers and that this 
may lessen competition in the supply of television advertising services, including 
by reducing the number of independent competitors available to advertisers. 
This may result in increased prices to advertisers. 
119. Currently Seven and Nine are Ten’s closest competitors for the sale of 
advertising, and they each have larger shares of FTA advertising revenues than 
Ten. Although less direct, there is also competition between FTA advertising 
and STV advertising services. MCN accounts for the vast majority of STV 
advertising revenue.  
120. To the extent that they align the advertising offers of Ten and Foxtel, the 
proposed acquisitions will reduce the options available to television advertisers.  


 
 
21 
 
121. In addition, the ACCC understands that Foxtel obtains detailed information 
about the viewing habits of its subscribers via information obtained from the 
Foxtel box in its subscribers’ homes. The ACCC understands that the 
information collected in this way includes details of which channels and 
programs its subscribers watch on Foxtel and FTA networks, including FTA 
providers that compete with Ten, where the subscriber watches FTA programs 
through the Foxtel set-top box. Market inquiries have indicated concerns that 
this detailed information about FTA viewing habits could be used to give Ten 
information about its competitors’ viewers that is not currently available to those 
competitors, because they have no hardware equivalent to the Foxtel set-top 
box.  
122. The ACCC is further considering what information Ten will be able to access 
and whether access to such information in conjunction with programmatic 
advertising techniques could reduce the ability of other FTA competitors to offer 
a close competitive alternative to Foxtel and Ten in the supply of advertising 
services. 
123. A substantial lessening of competition in the market for television advertising 
could result in MCN increasing the prices it can charge advertisers. 
124. The ACCC invites comments from market participants on: 
 
the ability and incentive for Ten to coordinate with and influence MCN in relation to 
the advertising strategies adopted for the different channels represented by MCN  
 
the effect of the proposed acquisitions on the ability of other FTA networks to 
compete with the advertising offerings of Ten and Foxtel, and the impact of this on 
competition in the market for television advertising.  
Issues unlikely to raise concerns:  
Reduced competition in the national market for the supply of SVOD services 
125. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisitions are not likely to 
lead to a substantial lessening of competition in the supply of SVOD services to 
consumers. 
126. The ACCC considered the potential for the proposed acquisitions to raise such 
concerns by limiting the ability of alternative SVOD providers to compete with 
Presto, acting in partnership with Foxtel and Ten, in the acquisition of non-
sports content.  
127. A number of new entrants commenced supply of SVOD services in Australia in 
2015, and the ACCC considers there is a low risk that the proposed acquisitions 
would create such a barrier to expansion and to any other potential entrants as 
to amount to a substantial lessening of competition in the supply of SVOD 
services. In particular, the acquisition is unlikely to prevent Presto’s competitors 
from being able to acquire enough attractive non-sport content required to 
attract a sufficient subscriber base to be commercially viable.  
128. This is because currently there is limited competition between SVOD providers 
and STV and FTA broadcasters for the acquisition of certain types of content. 
SVOD services broadcast some types of content, such as TV programs and 


 
 
22 
 
movies, that are also broadcast by STV and FTA but tend not to offer programs 
that are of most value when viewed live, such as sport and reality televisions 
shows. SVOD providers, such as Netflix and Stan, also produce or commission 
some of their own non-sport content.  
129. The ACCC also considers it unlikely, at this stage, that the proposed 
acquisitions would substantially lessen competition in the supply of SVOD 
services to consumers by limiting the ability of alternative SVOD providers to 
compete with Presto, acting in partnership with Foxtel and Ten, in the 
acquisition of sports content. As noted above under ‘The acquisition of sports 
content’, the ACCC’s market inquiries have indicated that while SVOD providers 
may enter the markets for the acquisition of sports rights in future, they are not 
likely to acquire a significant amount of premium sporting rights in the 
foreseeable future. 
130. ACCC invites comments from market participants on: 
 
the extent to which SVOD services compete with FTA and STV for the acquisition 
of content  
 
whether the proposed acquisitions are likely to limit the ability of competing SVOD 
services, and potential new entrants, to acquire sufficient attractive content to build 
and maintain a commercially viable subscriber base.  
ACCC's future steps 
131. The ACCC will finalise its views on this matter after it considers submissions 
received in response to this Statement of Issues. 
132. The ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on each of the 
issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issues that may 
be relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. Submissions are to be 
received by the ACCC no later than 28 September 2015 and should be emailed 
to mergers@accc.gov.au  
133. The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 22 October 2015. 
However the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Merger Review 
Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose of 
explaining the ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's public 
announcement. 
