 
 
 
Statement of Issues 
11 June 2015 
Health Care Corporation Pty Ltd (Ramsay) - proposed 
acquisition of Wollongong Day Surgery  
 
Purpose 
 
1. 
This Statement of Issues aims to: 
 
 
provide the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission’s (ACCC’s) 
preliminary views on competition issues arising from Health Care Corporation 
Pty Ltd (Ramsay)’s proposed acquisition of Wollongong Day Surgery; 
 
 
identify areas of further inquiry; 
 
 
provide all interested parties an opportunity to comment; and 
 
 
invite interested parties to submit information to assist the ACCC in its 
assessment of the issues. 
 
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views 
 
2. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is 
in section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits 
acquisitions that substantially lessen competition in a market, or are likely to do 
so.  
 
3. 
The ACCC has received submissions from interested parties expressing 
concerns about the impact the proposed acquisition would have on competition 
for the supply of day surgery services. 
 
4. 
The ACCC divides its preliminary views into three categories, ‘issues of concern’, 
‘issues that may raise concerns’ and ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’. 
 
5. 
This Statement of Issues (SoI) identifies two “issues of concern”. 
 
 
 
 


 
 
Issues of concern 
 
 
The ACCC considers that the proposed acquisition would be likely to lead to 
significant rate (price) increases for the supply of day surgery services to 
private health insurance funds (health funds) and the Department of 
Veterans Affairs (DVA). The ACCC considers that this market has local and 
national dimensions. 
 
 
The ACCC considers that the proposed acquisition would be likely to lead to 
significant rate (price) increases for, and/or reduce Ramsay’s incentive to 
invest in and improve, the supply of day surgery services to patients (and 
doctors) in Wollongong, NSW and its surrounding areas (the Wollongong 
area). 
 
Making a submission 
 
6. 
The ACCC is seeking submissions from interested parties, particularly on the 
following key issues: 
 
 
whether it is likely that the proposed acquisition would allow Ramsay to raise 
rates for day surgery services (day surgery rates) to health funds and the 
DVA; and 
 
 
whether it is likely that the proposed acquisition would allow Ramsay to raise 
day surgery rates (prices), and/or reduce Ramsay’s incentive to invest in and 
improve services, to patients (and doctors) in the Wollongong area. 
 
7. 
Detailed discussion of these and other issues, along with specific questions, is 
contained in this SoI.  
 
8. 
Interested parties should provide submissions by no later than 5pm on 2 July 
2015. Submissions may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: 
Submission re: Ramsay’s proposed acquisition of Wollongong day surgery- 
attention Ayesha Budd/Serena Wong. If you would like to discuss the matter with 
ACCC officers over the telephone or in person please contact Ayesha Budd on 
(02) 9230 3834 or Serena Wong on (02) 9230 9188.  
 
9. 
The ACCC anticipates making a final decision by 27 August 2015. However, this 
timeline may be updated. To keep abreast of possible changes in relation to 
timing and to find relevant documents, interested parties should visit the Mergers 
Register on the ACCC's website at www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
 
Confidentiality of submissions 
 
10. 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We 
will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) 
unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation 
or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition 
and Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where possible so that you may 
have an opportunity to be heard. Therefore, if the information provided to the 
ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines contain more information. 


 
 
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’ 
 
11. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well 
as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
 
12. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 
 
Timeline 
 
Date 
Event 
16 March 2015 
ACCC commenced public review 
2 April 2015 
 
 
15 April 2015 
 
Closing date for submissions from interested parties. 
ACCC assessing information provided during market 
inquiries and consulting with merger parties on any 
relevant issues or concerns arising 
ACCC requested further information from the merger 
parties 
23 April 2015 
 
 
13 May 2015 
Former proposed decision date of 7 May delayed to 
allow receipt of further information from Ramsay and 
WDS 
 
ACCC received further information from the merger 
parties 
11 June 2015 
ACCC published a Statement of Issues outlining 
preliminary competition concerns 
2 July 2015 
Closing date for submissions from interested parties 
in response to Statement of Issues 
27 August 2015 
Proposed date for announcement of ACCC's final 
decision 
 
The merger parties 
 
Wollongong Day Surgery  
 
13. 
Wollongong Day Surgery (WDS) is a day procedure centre at 354 Crown Street, 
Wollongong, NSW. WDS is located directly opposite the Wollongong Public 
Hospital and immediately adjacent to the location of the new Wollongong Private 
Hospital. It is currently owned by a group of 14 local anaesthetists and doctors. 
 


 
 
14. 
WDS has 11 recovery beds and 3 pre-operation beds. It deals with simple and 
uncomplicated day only procedures. WDS has 2 operating theatres and one 
procedure room.  
 
15. 
WDS’s main specialisations are: endoscopy, facio-maxillary, ophthalmology, IVF, 
orthopaedic, dental, ENT, general surgery and gynaecology. Its minor 
specialisations are plastics and hand surgery.  
 
Ramsay  
 
16. 
Ramsay is Australia’s largest private hospital operator, with 69 hospitals and day 
surgery units; admitting almost a million patients, and conducting over half a 
million procedures, in Australia each year.  
 
17. 
In the Wollongong region, Ramsay currently provides surgical services at Figtree 
Private Hospital. It also plans to open a new private hospital, Wollongong Private 
Hospital, in 2016. 
 
Figtree Private Hospital 
 
18. 
Figtree Private Hospital (FPH) is a 100 bed private hospital located in the suburb 
of Figtree, Wollongong, approximately 5km from WDS.  
 
19. 
FPH also has 11 recovery beds and 9 pre-op beds for use in the supply of day 
surgery services. 
 
20. 
FPH provides the following services:  
 
 
day surgery services: general surgery, ear, nose and throat (ENT), 
orthopaedic, gynaecology, plastic, ophthalmology, colorectal surgery, 
gastrointestinal, facio-maxillary, dental, dermatology and urology; 
 
 
other surgical services: neurosurgical, paediatric, vascular and bariatric; and 
 
 
other services: acute medical, palliative care and general medical, maternity 
services, intensive care unit, radiology onsite, endovascular suite and sleep 
studies. 
 
Wollongong Private Hospital 
 
21. 
Ramsay is currently building a new private hospital, the Wollongong Private 
Hospital (WPH) at 362 Crown Street, Wollongong, NSW. WPH will be 
immediately adjacent to WDS. 
 
22. 
Ramsay intends to open WPH in early 2016, at which point Ramsay will transfer 
the majority of FPH’s services (including both day and overnight hospital 
services) to WPH. FPH will then be transformed into a 40 bed rehabilitation 
facility, which will also offer day urology services.  
 
23. 
When it opens in 2016, WPH will have approximately 151 beds, an intensive 
care unit and a range of medical, surgical and maternity services. WPH will have 
nine operating theatres and a day surgery unit. 
 
 


 
 
Other Ramsay facilities 
 
24. 
Ramsay operates other private hospitals and day surgeries in southern Sydney 
and southern NSW, including:  
 
 
Southern Highlands Private Hospital in Bowral, provides medical, surgical, 
rehabilitation, oncology and palliative care services. It has 73 beds and is 
located approximately 76km from WDS; 
 
 
Nowra Private Hospital in Nowra, provides acute surgical and medical 
services, rehabilitation, day surgery and day only oncology services. It has 84 
beds and is located approximately 81km from WDS;  
 
 
Lawrence Hargrave Private Hospital in Thirroul, is a rehabilitative, medical 
and palliative care facility hospital with 54 beds located approximately 14km 
from WDS; 
 
 
Kingsway Day Surgery in Miranda, a day surgery with 2 operating theatres 
and two specialised treatment rooms, located approximately 59km from WDS; 
 
 
Kareena Private Hospital in Miranda, provides acute care. It has 128 beds and 
is located approximately 60km from WDS; and 
 
 
St George Private Hospital in Hurstville, is an advanced surgical hospital with 
236 beds located approximately 67km from WDS. 
 
Other industry participants 
 
Private hospitals and day surgeries in the Wollongong area 
 
25. 
Shellharbour Private Hospital (SPH) is an acute care facility, located 20km south 
of Wollongong. It is operated by Evolution Healthcare, a private health care 
group. SPH has 87 medical, surgical and special care in-patient beds and an 8 
bed day surgery unit. SPH provides elective surgical services and its primary 
focus is on providing rehabilitation services. SPH carries out mainly lower risk 
general, laparoscopic, gynaecological, ophthalmic, dental and minor orthopaedic 
surgeries.  
 
26. 
There are also smaller private day surgery centres in Wollongong providing day 
surgery services in relation to one or a few specialisations. These providers 
include: 
 
 
Rosemont Endoscopy Centre, a freestanding endoscopy unit located 100m 
away from WDS; 
 
 
Southern Medical Day Care Centre at 410 Crown Street, Wollongong, which 
provides day oncology services to private patients and some public (trial drug) 
patients; and 
 
 
Confident Healthcare at 22 Underwood Street, Corrimal, located 7km from 
WDS, which provides oncology, endocrinology, gastroenterology and dental 
services excluding those that require sedation or a general anaesthetic. 
 


 
 
Public hospitals in the Wollongong area 
 
27. 
The Wollongong and Shellharbour public hospitals also provide day surgery 
services to uninsured patients and some privately insured patients. 
 
28. 
Wollongong Hospital (Wollongong Public) is a public hospital with more than 
500 beds and is currently undergoing $100 million worth of capital works 
enhancements which include the construction of the Illawarra Elective Surgical 
Services Centre. This renovation and extension will include the addition of 60 
beds and 7 operating theatres for the purposes of carrying out day surgery 
services in the future. 
 
29. 
Shellharbour Hospital, situated in Mt Warrigal, NSW, is a public hospital with 87 
medical, surgical and special care in-patient beds, and 69 mental health in-
patient beds. It has an 8 bed day surgery unit. 
 
Market inquiries 
 
30. 
On 16 March 2015 the ACCC commenced a public review of the proposed 
acquisition. The ACCC directed market inquiries to private health funds, hospital 
and day surgery operators, surgeons and other specialists (doctors), as well as 
to possible new entrants to the provision of day surgery services in the 
Wollongong area. 
 
31. 
As discussed further below, interested parties expressed concerns to the ACCC 
about how the proposed acquisition would impact health funds and uninsured 
patients. In particular, health funds and doctors submitted to the ACCC that the 
proposed acquisition would be likely to lead to higher rates charged to health 
funds and uninsured patients for day surgery services in the Wollongong area. 
 
Industry background  
 
Role of private hospitals and day surgeries 
 
32. 
Day surgery services are supplied by both hospitals and day surgeries. In a day 
surgery, patients are operated on and recover in a recovery chair or bed and 
must be discharged before midnight on the same day of their surgery. In other 
words, day surgeries cannot provide overnight care. In contrast, hospitals may 
provide day surgery services but also provide surgery services to patients that 
are admitted overnight.  
 
33. 
Hospitals are generally significantly larger than day surgeries and typically also 
offer higher level or more complex procedures and may offer a broader array of 
specialties, compared to day surgeries. Hospitals may also have more 
technologically advanced equipment. As a result and due to risks of 
complication, patients with high acuity requirements or co-morbidity are generally 
referred to hospitals where they can receive overnight care.  
 
34. 
To support these higher level and more complicated procedures, hospitals 
require overnight beds so that patients can recover and receive the required 
care. This infrastructure and the overnight care of patients significantly add to the 
cost of operating a hospital. 
 


 
 
35. 
The ACCC understands from interested parties that rates for day surgery 
services at hospitals are generally higher, by up to 20%, than those for the same 
services in day only facilities. Industry participants stated that the difference in 
rates was due to a variety of factors; including the increased costs associated 
with nursing care in hospitals and the extra level of care provided by a hospital 
so that where complications arise, the patient may be admitted overnight. 
 
36. 
When doctors decide whether to refer a patient to a hospital or a day surgery 
they generally do so based on such factors as whether they are permitted to 
practise at the facility, whether the patient will require overnight care, health risks 
including age and co-morbidity issues, and/or the availability or quality of 
operating theatres and other facilities.  
 
Role of private health funds and HPPAs 
 
37. 
The vast majority of patients attending private health facilities indirectly fund the 
medical services they receive by means of membership of a health fund1. In turn, 
payments from health funds make up the vast majority of most private hospital 
and day surgeries’ revenue.  
 
38. 
Health funds and private hospital and day surgery operators therefore negotiate 
Hospital Purchaser Provider Agreements (HPPAs)2. HPPAs are agreements 
under which health funds agree with a day surgery service provider (day 
surgery provider) that, if and when members of the health fund present for 
treatment at the day surgery, the day surgery provider will provide services to the 
members to a minimum specified standard and for a specified fee. HPPAs 
generally cover all the services provided by a day surgery provider which the 
health fund has agreed to fund. The day surgery provider can then bill the health 
fund for the service, rather than billing the members.  
 
39. 
If a patient has private health insurance but is treated at a day surgery that does 
not have an HPPA with the patient’s health fund, the fund is required by 
legislation to pay at least ‘second tier’ benefits, provided that the day surgery 
provider is appropriately registered. If a day surgery provider receives second tier 
rates from a health fund, it will recoup 85% of the average cost of a procedure 
(for that particular health fund across the previous financial year) from the health 
fund. The patient will generally have to pay the difference between what the day 
surgery provider has charged for a procedure and the remuneration it has 
received from the health fund. This amount is commonly known as the ‘gap’ 
payment.  
 
40. 
HPPAs help to minimise ‘gap’ or ‘out of pocket’ payments for a health fund’s 
members. If a patient attends a day surgery provider which has an HPPA with 
the patient’s health fund, the patient will ordinarily not be required to make any 
payments for their accommodation, except for any excess or co-payment that the 
patient is liable to pay under their health insurance membership.  
 
41. 
The ACCC understands that when an operator of multiple hospitals and/or day 
surgery facilities (hospital group) such as Ramsay negotiates an HPPA with a 
                                                 
 
1 Private health insurance premiums are regulated by the Federal Government. Legislation prevents health funds from price 
discriminating across different geographic regions within a state or territory. 
2 The ACCC understands from interested parties that private hospitals and day surgeries have equivalent agreements with 
the Repatriation Commission on behalf of the DVA. 


 
 
health fund, the hospital group will often seek to negotiate terms on a ‘one in, all 
in’ basis. That is, the hospital group negotiates on the basis of having all of its 
facilities covered under the HPPA, for all of the services those facilities provide.  
 
42. 
However, rates are not uniform across all of the hospital group’s facilities. 
Rather, day surgery rates are negotiated for each particular facility. A schedule 
outlining specific rates for each facility (and for specific medical procedures) is 
negotiated between the hospital group and a health fund, having regard to local 
competitive dynamics. These competitive dynamics include the presence of rival 
facilities in the local area. 
 
Role of doctors 
 
43. 
Demand for day surgery services is generated in large part by doctors 
recommending, or referring patients to, day surgery providers. Day surgery 
providers therefore compete to attract doctors and their patients by endeavouring 
to provide an environment in which doctors are willing to treat their patients.  
 
44. 
Such competition provides doctors with the opportunity to choose the day 
surgery provider with the best facilities, equipment, staff (staffing numbers and 
quality of staff) to allow them to effectively complete their jobs to a high standard. 
It also allows patients, through their doctor referrals, to be treated at facilities 
which offer these services as well as convenience and comfort. 
 
45. 
A key aspect of this competition to attract doctors and their patients is to offer 
high quality facilities. This typically includes investment in medical staff (for 
example, nurses and allied health professionals) and investment in physical 
assets such as operating theatres, consulting rooms, patient accommodation and 
medical equipment. 
 
Relevant Markets 
 
46. 
The ACCC’s starting point for delineating relevant markets and assessing the 
competitive effects of the proposed acquisition involves identifying the services 
actually or potentially supplied by the merger parties. The ACCC will then 
consider what other services constitute sufficiently close substitutes to provide a 
significant source of competitive constraint on the merged entity. 
 
47. 
As discussed below, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the markets relevant for 
assessing the likely competition effects of the proposed acquisition are markets 
for the supply of: 
 
 
day surgery services to private health funds and the DVA. The ACCC 
considers that this market has local and national dimensions; and 
  
 
day surgery services to patients, both directly and through the doctors who 
refer them, in the Wollongong area. 
 
Product markets 
 
48. 
Ramsay and WDS overlap in the supply of day surgery services. Ramsay and 
WDS utilise their infrastructure to supply day surgery services in relation to a 
range of medical specialties. Operating theatres, recovery areas, nursing staff 
and support staff can generally be substituted between different specialties. 


 
 
 
49. 
Specifically, FPH and WDS currently both provide day surgery services in 
relation to: breast surgery; dental; ear, nose and throat surgery; facio-maxilliary; 
general surgery; gynaecology; haematology; head and neck surgery; 
immunology; medical oncology; ophthalmology; orthopaedics; and plastic 
surgery. 
 
50. 
The ACCC’s competition assessment is therefore proceeding on the basis of 
product markets that encompass all relevant specialties for which the merger 
parties provide day surgery services. However, the ACCC will consider whether 
there are significant discontinuities in substitution between day surgery services 
in relation to any specific surgery specialisation, such that the likely competition 
effects of the proposed acquisition should be considered on the basis of a 
distinct product market. For example, the ACCC is assessing whether there are 
any particular obstacles to commencing supply of day surgery services in relation 
to ophthalmic surgery (for which there are no other current day surgery providers 
in the Wollongong area). 
 
Substitution to public hospitals 
 
51. 
The ACCC at this stage considers that public hospitals such as Wollongong 
Public are not a close substitute for the day surgery services provided by 
Ramsay and WDS. This preliminary view is consistent with the ACCC’s decisions 
in previous merger matters involving private health facilities.  
 
52. 
Ramsay and WDS derive the great majority of their day surgery revenue from 
health funds and, in turn, from patients that are health fund members. For these 
insured patients, public hospitals are a weak substitute. 
 
53. 
Health fund members seeking day surgery services generally utilise a private 
facility such as that offered by Ramsay or WDS, rather than a public hospital. 
The willingness of insured patients to pay health insurance premiums and/or pay 
an ‘excess’ fee for day surgery services at a private facility, rather than accessing 
a public hospital at little or no financial cost, is indicative of public hospitals being 
a weak substitute for insured patients seeking day surgery services.  
 
54. 
Consistent with this pattern of demand by insured patients, the ACCC’s market 
inquiries identified that doctors in the Wollongong area generally considered 
public hospitals to be unrealistic or poor alternative sources of day surgery for 
insured patients. Relevant factors in this regard include the longer waiting lists in 
public hospitals, and perceptions among patients of a superior quality of care in 
private versus public facilities. The ACCC understands that, as a result of these 
factors, only a very small proportion of Wollongong Public’s day surgery patients 
are currently admitted as private patients. 
 
55. 
As a consequence of the public hospital system being a weak substitute to 
private facilities for health fund members, the presence of public hospitals is 
unlikely to have a material influence on day surgery rates negotiated between 
private day surgery providers and health funds. In other words, Wollongong 
Public’s provision of day surgery services will not constrain Ramsay’s pricing to 
health funds. 
 
56. 
Uninsured patients are generally likely to have a greater incentive than insured 
patients to substitute away to a public hospital. However, to the extent that some 


 
 
uninsured patients are prepared to pay to access day surgery services at private 
facilities such as FPH and WDS, public hospitals such as Wollongong Public are 
likely to be weak substitutes.  
 
57. 
The ACCC notes that Wollongong Public intends to complete renovations and 
extensions by the end of 2015, which will add approximately 7 theatres for day 
surgery services. The ACCC at this stage understands that this extension is not 
expected to materially change current day surgery waiting lists in the Wollongong 
region. This extension therefore does not change the ACCC’s preliminary 
conclusion in relation to substitution by patients. In particular, the ACCC’s 
preliminary view based on its market inquiries to date is that the extension to 
Wollongong Public will not create a greater competitive constraint on Ramsay’s 
supply of day surgery services. 
 
Geographic markets  
 
58. 
Competition for the supply of day surgery services has different geographic 
boundaries depending on the type of customer. Competition between day 
surgery providers for patients (and doctors) occurs at the local level. Competition 
to supply health funds and the DVA has both local dimensions and broader, 
potentially national, geographic dimensions. These markets are discussed below. 
 
Geographic substitution by patients 
 
59. 
Market inquiries identified the importance of location in choice of day surgery 
facility by patients and doctors. While there are a number of factors relevant to 
the choice of day surgery provider (including the relevant procedure, surgeon 
availability and the patient’s preferred timing for the procedure), the convenience 
to a patient of attending a nearby surgery is considered to be one of the main 
factors.  
 
60. 
Doctors practising in the Wollongong area generally identified to the ACCC that 
they will refer a patient to a day surgery provider located close to the patient’s 
place of residence and that most day patients are generally unwilling to travel 
outside the Wollongong area for surgery. The ACCC received mixed information 
from doctors and other interested parties in relation to the preparedness of 
patients to travel to SPH, which is located approximately 20km south of 
Wollongong, instead of having day surgery at WDS or a Ramsay facility in 
Wollongong.  
 
61. 
The ACCC reviewed confidential information provided by WDS, Ramsay and 
Evolution Healthcare in relation to the postcodes from which WDS, FPH and 
SPH draw their patients. This identified that WDS and FPH have relatively wide 
catchments and draw significant proportions of their patients from Shellharbour 
and nearby areas, from which SPH also draws its patients. However, SPH does 
not draw significant proportions of its patients from areas in closer proximity to 
WDS and FPH. Other information and internal documents provided to the ACCC 
by Ramsay and Evolution Healthcare confirmed that they are in competition with 
each other to attract doctors and patients in the Wollongong area. 
 
62. 
At this stage of its investigation and for the purposes of this SoI, the ACCC 
considers that SPH is likely to be included in the market for the supply of day 
surgery services to patients; but notes SPH is unlikely to provide as close a 
constraint as Ramsay and WDS provide to each other in the Wollongong area, 


 
 
as discussed below. The ACCC is currently seeking further information from 
interested parties to test this view. 
 
Geographic substitution by health funds and DVA 
 
63. 
Health funds submitted to the ACCC that competition between day surgery 
providers on a local level is a key factor in determining day surgery rates for 
specific facilities. The ACCC understands that if a day surgery provider has a 
particularly strong position in a local area, a health fund that wishes to insure 
services to fund members in that area may have no choice other than to deal 
with that day surgery provider.  
 
64. 
Market inquiries suggest that because of the ‘one in, all in’ approach taken by 
some hospital groups in negotiating HPPAs with health funds, hospital groups 
can utilise a strong presence in a local area to influence HPPA negotiations for 
other facilities irrespective of their location. Local competitive dynamics between 
day surgery providers in a particular geographic area/s can thus influence day 
surgery rates on a wider geographic basis3. 
 
Preliminary view on relevant markets 
 
65. 
Based on information received to date, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the 
relevant markets for assessing the likely competition effects of the proposed 
acquisition are the supply of: 
 
 
day surgery services to health funds and the DVA. The ACCC considers that 
this market has local and national dimensions; and 
 
 
day surgery services to patients in the Wollongong area. 
 
 
The ACCC invites comments from interested parties on its preliminary views about the 
scope of the relevant market/s. In particular, interested parties may wish to address: 
 
 
the extent to which doctors currently utilising FPH or WDS would be likely to increase 
their use of SPH in the event the proposed acquisition proceeds and Ramsay 
attempts to increase day surgery rates by 5-10%; 
 
 
the ability for SPH and other competing day surgery providers to commence supplying 
services in relation to ophthalmic surgery; 
 
 
specific examples of how competition between WDS and Ramsay has enabled health 
funds to secure competitive day surgery rates in the Wollongong area; 
 
 
specific examples of how competition between day surgery providers in particular 
local areas has enabled health funds to secure competitive rates at facilities in those 
locations; 
 
 
specific examples of how competition between day surgery providers in local 
geographic areas influences day surgery rates paid by health funds for day surgery 
services in other locations; and 
                                                 
 
3 The ACCC understands that day surgery rates are negotiated in a similar way with the DVA. 


 
 
 
 
whether the new day surgery wing of Wollongong Public will materially reduce its 
waiting lists and is likely to increase substitution by health fund members away from 
Ramsay facilities. 
  
 
 
Competition issues of concern: 
 
1.  Ramsay’s ability to raise rates for day surgery services to 
health funds and the DVA 
 
66. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition for the supply of day surgery services to health 
funds and the DVA. Based on its market inquiries to date, the ACCC is 
concerned that Ramsay would have the ability to unilaterally raise rates for day 
surgery services in the Wollongong area. Further, based on information provided 
to the ACCC by health funds, the ACCC considers that Ramsay would have the 
ability to leverage its strong market presence in the Wollongong area to increase 
rates at other locations in Ramsay’s national hospital network. 
 
Local unilateral effects 
 
Reducing three suppliers to two 
 
67. 
At the local level, the removal of WDS as an independent supplier of day surgery 
services would reduce the number of main suppliers from three to two – Ramsay 
and SPH. This reduction in competition is likely to result in Ramsay having the 
ability to unilaterally increase rates for day surgery services in the Wollongong 
area and may also give it the ability to diminish some non-price aspects of its 
offer. 
 
68. 
Several large health funds submitted to the ACCC that the presence of 
alternative day surgery providers at the local level is a significant factor in HPPA 
negotiations between health funds and providers of day surgery services. These 
health funds submitted that the proposed acquisition would materially reduce the 
options for health funds seeking to negotiate HPPAs for day surgery services in 
the Wollongong area. 
 
69. 
Specifically, health funds submitted to the ACCC that the increase in 
concentration of Ramsay’s ownership of day surgery providers in the Wollongong 
area would provide it with the ability to impose higher rates for WDS’s services. 
WDS’s rates are currently constrained by competition from both Ramsay and, to 
a lesser extent, SPH. If the proposed acquisition proceeds, resulting in health 
funds having only one alternative supplier in the Wollongong area, health funds 
would have a significantly reduced ability to negotiate competitive rates for day 
surgery services. 
 
70. 
Furthermore, as explained above under ‘industry background’, WDS appears to 
have lower overheads than Ramsay. This means WDS has the ability to act as a 
significant competitive constraint on Ramsay in terms of pricing of day surgery 
services. The proposed acquisition would remove a supplier from the market that 
is operating at a lower price point than Ramsay.  


 
 
Removal of closest competitor 
 
71. 
WDS’s range of day surgery services and geographic location make it Ramsay’s 
closest competitor in the Wollongong area. WDS and Ramsay each provide a 
broad range of day surgery services encompassing many diverse medical 
specialisations. Moreover, their day surgery facilities in Wollongong will be 
located immediately adjacent to each other in central Wollongong. Indeed, WDS 
and Ramsay are the only suppliers of a wide range of day surgery services in 
central Wollongong.  
 
72. 
In light of the importance of the location of day surgery facilities to both patients 
and their referring doctors, as discussed above, the ACCC considers WDS to be 
the closest source of competition to Ramsay’s current and future day surgery 
facilities in Wollongong. The proposed acquisition would therefore remove 
Ramsay’s closest competitor for supply of day surgery services in the 
Wollongong area. 
 
73. 
Health funds submitted to the ACCC that their ability to negotiate day surgery 
rates with Ramsay for WPH would be significantly undermined by the removal of 
WDS as an independent competitor. Health funds submitted that, without an 
independent competitor to Ramsay in central Wollongong, Ramsay would have a 
significantly increased ability to seek higher rates for day surgery services at 
WPH than would otherwise be the case. 
 
74. 
The ACCC received submissions from health funds identifying that Ramsay has 
significantly increased rates charged to health funds for the supply of day surgery 
services following previous acquisitions of day surgery facilities in other areas of 
Australia. Health funds submitted to the ACCC that this experience is indicative 
of the likely outcome for pricing of WDS’s services if the proposed acquisition 
proceeds. 
 
75. 
Potential competitive constraints that may prevent an attempted increase in day 
surgery rates by Ramsay include new market entry, expansion by SPH, or any 
countervailing power of health funds and the DVA. These are discussed below. 
 
Potential expansion by SPH 
 
76. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that SPH currently is not a significant 
competitive restraint on Ramsay and WDS. SPH appears unlikely to have the 
ability or incentive to effectively constrain an attempted increase in day surgery 
rates by Ramsay, post-acquisition. 
 
77. 
SPH’s focus on providing rehabilitation services and its location approximately 
20km south of Wollongong appear to significantly limit the competitive constraint 
that SPH currently exercises on the supply of day surgery services in the 
Wollongong area. SPH also appears to focus on rehabilitation services. 
 
78. 
Further, SPH already has spare day surgery capacity despite high demand by 
patients in the Wollongong area, and despite Wollongong doctors having sought 
significant additional theatre time from Ramsay. This is consistent with the 
ACCC’s market inquiries, which indicated that SPH has had difficulty attracting 
doctors and patients away from FPH and WDS. It therefore appears unlikely that 
an attempted exercise of market power by Ramsay at WDS and/or WPH would 
be defeated by doctors and patients switching their demand from Ramsay to 


 
 
SPH, or that SPH would significantly expand its supply of day surgery services in 
response to Ramsay attempting to increase day surgery rates at WDS and/or 
WPH. 
 
Likelihood of new entry 
 
79. 
Although there has been some speculation about new entry and certain 
approvals granted to possible entrants, the ACCC’s market inquiries to date 
suggest that there is no credible threat of new entry to the supply of private day 
surgery services in the Wollongong area within the foreseeable future. 
 
80. 
Interested parties have indicated that ‘greenfield’ development of a new day 
surgery is very difficult and, in particular, takes a long time. New entry that would 
be sufficiently timely to constrain Ramsay’s pricing and service levels is therefore 
very unlikely. 
 
81. 
Market inquiries with existing hospital operators and possible new entrants have 
identified the following main obstacles to new entry: 
 
 
attracting doctors; 
 
 
securing HPPAs with private health funds; 
 
 
obtaining necessary certifications and approvals from relevant planning and 
health authorities; 
 
 
high capital investment; 
 
 
locating an appropriate site; and 
 
 
how the incumbent, Ramsay, may respond to a threat of entry, such as by 
securing doctors on exclusive terms or expanding capacity. 
 
82. 
Some interested parties anticipated that, post-acquisition, Ramsay’s market 
presence in the Wollongong area would afford it the ability to secure doctors on 
terms which would prevent or restrict those doctors from working at rivals’ day 
surgery facilities. Such arrangements would increase barriers to entry and 
expansion by rivals. The ACCC notes that, based on information provided by 
Ramsay, there are no arrangements between Ramsay and any doctors currently 
working at FPH that would prevent those doctors from working at other facilities. 
 
83. 
Interested parties, including possible entrants, identified to the ACCC that it is 
very difficult to secure commitments from doctors to work at newly proposed 
facilities and this creates significant uncertainty and risk for possible entrants. 
Consistent with the experience of these possible entrants, the ACCC’s market 
inquiries identified that doctors are generally unwilling to make these 
commitments to future possible entrants. 
 
84. 
Possible new entrants to the Wollongong market described health funds as 
generally being unwilling to enter into an HPPA with a new facility owner unless 
there was a demonstrated need for the new capacity. The ACCC invites further 
information as to whether health funds would be likely to enter into HPPAs with 
any new or expanded private facilities in the Wollongong area. 


 
 
85. 
Some possible new entrants indicated to the ACCC that they have put their plans 
on hold, pending the development of WPH and its impact on demand for day 
surgery services by patients and their referring doctors in the Wollongong area. 
Finally, the ACCC notes that there has been speculation that a new private 
hospital would be built on the former ATO site in central Wollongong. The 
ACCC’s market inquiries identified that this is very unlikely to occur. 
 
86. 
Thus, while future entry is possible, timely entry on a scale that would constrain 
Ramsay’s pricing and service levels is very unlikely. 
 
Countervailing power of health funds and the DVA 
 
87. 
Ramsay submits that private health funds dictate day surgery rates charged by 
Ramsay. The ACCC’s market inquiries in this matter and previous merger 
matters involving private hospitals and day surgeries do not support this 
submission. Further, while some large health funds account for significant 
proportions of Ramsay’s revenue in Wollongong and nationally, this would not 
afford those health funds with countervailing power to defeat an attempted 
increase by Ramsay in day surgery rates in the Wollongong area. 
 
88. 
In the ACCC’s view, countervailing power exists when customers have special 
characteristics that enable them to defeat a supplier’s attempted exercise of 
market power by credibly threatening to bypass the merged firm by vertically 
integrating into the upstream market, sponsoring new entry, or establishing 
importing arrangements (in certain product markets) 4. 
 
89. 
The ACCC invites further submissions as to whether large health funds would be 
willing and able to undertake capital investment in a new provider of day surgery 
services or significant expansion in capacity of an existing provider of day 
surgery services. The ACCC’s review to date has not identified any health funds 
sponsoring entry or expansion by a provider of day surgery services.  
 
90. 
The ACCC notes that to the extent that there is an option for a health fund to go 
‘out of contract’ with Ramsay, this would not be to the benefit of ultimate 
consumers, being health fund members. If health funds cannot come to an 
agreement with Ramsay in response to Ramsay seeking higher day surgery 
rates in the Wollongong area, those members’ only alternative would be SPH 
and the likely result for many members would be higher costs in the form of a 
‘gap’ payment to Ramsay.  
 
91. 
Further, this ability for a health fund to go ‘out of contract’ with Ramsay would be 
significantly restrained by competition between health funds. This is because a 
health fund without ‘no gap’ arrangements with the major Wollongong day 
surgery provider risks reputational damage and would risk losing members to 
rival health funds over time. 
 
92. 
In the absence of health funds having countervailing power or another effective 
competitive constraint/s on Ramsay’s pricing, the ACCC considers that the 
removal of Ramsay’s closest local competitor and consequent reduction from 
three to two main suppliers of day surgery services in the Wollongong area is 
likely to substantially lessen competition. 
                                                 
 
4 ACCC Merger Guidelines 2008, 7.48. 


 
 
National network effects 
 
93. 
Ramsay currently operates approximately 69 hospital and/or day surgery 
facilities nation-wide. The proposed acquisition of WDS would therefore, by itself, 
be an incremental addition to Ramsay’s national presence.  
 
94. 
However, some large health funds submitted to the ACCC that Ramsay’s ‘one in, 
all in’ approach to negotiating HPPAs enables it to leverage market power in one 
geographic area to seek higher rates in other areas5. Health funds submitted that 
they may therefore be obliged to accept higher rates at other locations or risk not 
securing ‘no gap’ arrangements with Ramsay for its Wollongong health facilities. 
 
95. 
The ACCC is therefore concerned that Ramsay could leverage its strong post-
acquisition market presence in the Wollongong area to demand higher day 
surgery rates from health funds at other locations in Australia.  
 
ACCC’s preliminary view - day surgery services to health funds and the DVA 
 
96. 
In summary, the ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition would be 
likely to substantially lessen competition for the supply of day surgery services to 
health funds and the DVA, resulting in: 
 
 
rate increases for the supply of these services by WDS and FPH/WPH and/or 
a reduction in the non-price aspects of their offers; and  
 
 
Ramsay having the ability to leverage its strong market presence in the 
Wollongong area to increase rates at other locations in Ramsay’s national 
hospital network. 
 
 
The ACCC invites comments from interested parties on its concerns in relation to the 
impact of the proposed acquisition on the supply of private day surgery services to health 
funds and the DVA. In particular, interested parties may wish to address: 
 
 
specific examples of HPPA negotiations between Ramsay and health funds in which 
competition between WDS and Ramsay influenced negotiations or outcomes; 
 
 
any progress or changes in plans by possible new entrants to supply day surgery 
services in the Wollongong area, and the reasons for these possible new 
developments not having been significantly progressed to date;  
 
 
specific examples of HPPA negotiations between Ramsay and health funds in which 
Ramsay successfully negotiated on a ‘one in, all in’ basis, and how this affected 
HPPA outcomes;  
 
 
specific examples of HPPA negotiations between Ramsay and health funds in which 
Ramsay unsuccessfully attempted to negotiate on a ‘one in, all in’ basis, and how this 
affected HPPA outcomes (for example, to have second tier arrangements); and 
 
                                                 
 
5 Large health funds submitted to the ACCC that Ramsay seeks to negotiate on the basis that unless all services at all 
Ramsay facilities are covered, it will not agree to an HPPA with a health fund at all. 


 
 
 
specific examples of HPPA negotiations between Ramsay and health funds in which 
Ramsay leveraged its market presence in one location to secure higher rates at 
another location. 
 
 
2.  Ramsay’s ability to raise prices, and reduced incentive to 
improve services, to patients (and doctors) 
 
97. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition for the supply of day surgery services to 
patients, both directly and through the doctors who refer them, in the Wollongong 
area. Based on market inquiries to date, the ACCC is concerned that the 
proposed acquisition would give Ramsay the ability to unilaterally raise day 
surgery rates (prices) to uninsured patients, and/or reduce Ramsay’s incentive to 
invest in and improve its supply of day surgery services to patients, in the 
Wollongong area. 
 
98. 
Uninsured patients account for a minority of the day surgery services supplied by 
private facilities in the Wollongong area, in terms of episodes and revenues. 
Accordingly, the market for the supply of day surgery services to uninsured 
patients in the Wollongong area is relatively small, compared to the market for 
the supply to health fund members6.  
 
99. 
Most uninsured patients in the Wollongong area utilise the public hospital 
system, in particular Wollongong Public, rather than utilise the merger parties’ 
private day surgery facilities. However, as mentioned above, the ACCC’s 
preliminary investigation in the Wollongong area shows that a proportion of 
uninsured patients do choose to pay for day surgery services at WDS, FPH or 
SPH. The proportion of uninsured to insured patients, as well as the prices 
charged to such patients varies significantly between the three facilities which 
potentially indicates that currently some competition exists between them.  
 
100. Differences in prices charged to uninsured patients by WDS, FPH and SPH are 
quite large. For instance, the ACCC’s inquiries indicate that the day surgery 
prices WDS currently charges uninsured patients are well below those charged 
by FPH and SPH. This price difference may make the offer of WDS particularly 
attractive to uninsured patients and is consistent with information before the 
ACCC that indicates WDS treats a relatively higher proportion of uninsured 
patients. The ACCC’s preliminary view is therefore that the proposed acquisition 
is likely to result in Ramsay having the ability and incentive to charge higher day 
surgery rates to uninsured patients at both WDS and FPH (and WPH in future).  
 
101. The proposed acquisition may also impact on the future quality of day surgery 
services supplied to both insured and uninsured patients. This potential impact 
on the standard of care or quality of day surgery facilities would not necessarily 
involve a reduction in quality compared to current levels. Rather, without 
competition from WDS, Ramsay may not have sufficient ongoing incentive to 
improve services over time. This may significantly impact the quality of day 
surgery services to patients and doctors in the Wollongong area, denying them 
                                                 
 
6 Ramsay’s ability to raise the costs to health fund members either via premiums in their health funds, or through having to 
pay “gap” fees as a result of the proposed acquisition, is discussed above. 


 
 
access to the improvements to service that Ramsay and WDS might make if they 
continued to compete with each other to attract patients and doctors. 
 
102. As mentioned above, private health facilities compete to attract doctors to 
practice at those facilities and to refer patients to those facilities, and an 
important way that this competition takes place is through providing high quality 
facilities, equipment, programs and services to patients. In order for this 
mechanism to function, there must be a realistic threat that doctors will switch to 
alternative facilities should quality of facilities, equipment, programs and services 
fail to improve in line with those at other facilities.  
 
103. Post-acquisition, doctors’ choices in this regard would be very limited. During the 
ACCC’s preliminary investigation, a number of doctors and existing day surgery 
providers submitted that doctors are unlikely to practise at SPH because it is 
perceived to have a lower quality of facilities, compared to FPH and WDS. 
Furthermore, as mentioned above, for most doctors based in Wollongong, SPH 
is a 25 minute drive away, meaning that travelling to and from the facility would 
reduce their time available to practice during the day. Accordingly, the ACCC’s 
preliminary view is that SPH would not generally act as a close alternative for 
doctors.  
 
104. Without sufficiently effective competition from SPH or other competitive 
constraints, it is likely that Ramsay would have a reduced incentive to invest in or 
develop staff, specialists, day surgery facilities or programs. The proposed 
acquisition therefore removes a competitive constraint on Ramsay to provide 
quality day surgery services in the future. 
 
105. On the other hand, the ACCC also recognises a possibility that the proposed 
acquisition could lead to some improvements to aspects of service to patients 
and doctors in the Wollongong area. In particular, any future development of a 
physical connection between WDS and WPH may allow these facilities to be 
better utilised to the benefit of doctors and patients. The ACCC continues to 
investigate whether these factors will affect the extent to which the proposed 
acquisition is likely to lead to a substantial lessening of competition. 
 
ACCC’s preliminary views - day surgery services to patients (and doctors) 
 
106. In summary, the ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition is likely to 
result in a substantial lessening of competition in the supply of day surgery 
services to patients in the Wollongong area (both directly and through the 
doctors who refer them). 
 
 
The ACCC invites comments from interested parties on its potential concerns in relation 
to the impact of the proposed acquisition on the supply of private day surgery services to 
patients. In particular, interested parties may wish to address: 
 
 
the extent to which FPH and WDS actively compete for uninsured patients, including 
any evidence of them seeking to attract uninsured patients or responding to each 
other’s pricing or non-pricing offers to such patients; 
 
 
the likelihood of doctors and patients increasing their use of SPH in response to 
Ramsay attempting to increase day surgery (rates) prices or reducing service; 
 


 
 
 
specific examples of how, in the absence of independent competition from WDS, 
Ramsay may have a reduced incentive to invest in or develop its day surgery 
operations, and how this would be likely to impact the quality of day surgery services 
to patients and doctors in the Wollongong area over time; 
 
 
the extent to which, post-acquisition, the quality of day surgery services in the 
Wollongong area would be ensured or maintained by the influence of doctors, 
regulatory standards and/or the importance to Ramsay of protecting its reputation or 
brand; and 
 
 
the likelihood and importance of potential improvements to day surgery services 
supplied to patients and doctors in the Wollongong area as a result of the proposed 
acquisition, particularly in the event of any future development of a physical 
connection between WDS and WPH. 
 
 
ACCC’s future steps 
 
107. The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
 
108. As described above, the ACCC now seeks submissions from interested parties 
on each of the issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other 
issue that may be relevant to the ACCC’s assessment of this matter. 
Submissions are to be received by the ACCC no later than 2 July 2015 and 
should be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au. 
 
109. The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 27 August 2015. 
However the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Merger Review 
Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose of 
explaining the ACCC’s final view may be published following the ACCC’s public 
announcement. 
 
 
