Page 1 of 17 
 
Public Competition Assessment 
17 October 2013 
Woolworths Limited - proposed acquisition of the Hawker 
Supa IGA 
Introduction 
1. 
On 4 July 2013, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) 
announced its decision not to oppose the proposed acquisition of a supermarket 
in Hawker, ACT, branded as a Supa IGA (the Hawker Supa IGA), by 
Woolworths Limited (Woolworths) (proposed acquisition). The ACCC decided 
that the proposed acquisition would not be likely to have the effect of 
substantially lessening competition in the local retail supermarket market 
surrounding the Hawker Supa IGA in contravention of section 50 of the 
Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the Act). 
2. 
The ACCC made its decision on the basis of the information provided by the 
parties to the acquisition (the parties) and information arising from its market 
inquiries. This Public Competition Assessment outlines the basis on which the 
ACCC has reached its decision on the proposed acquisition, subject to 
confidentiality considerations. 
Public Competition Assessment 
3. 
To provide an enhanced level of transparency and procedural fairness in its 
decision making process, the ACCC issues a Public Competition Assessment for 
all transactions where: 
 an acquisition is opposed; 
 an acquisition is subject to enforceable undertakings; 
 the parties to the acquisition seek such disclosure; or 
 an acquisition is not opposed but raises important issues that the ACCC 
considers should be made public. 
4. 
This Public Competition Assessment has been issued because Woolworths’ 
proposed acquisition of the Hawker Supa IGA was not opposed by the ACCC 
but is considered to raise issues of interest to the public. 


 
Page 2 of 17 
5. 
By issuing Public Competition Assessments, the ACCC aims to provide the 
public with a better understanding of the ACCC's analysis of various markets and 
the associated merger and competition issues.  
6. 
Each Public Competition Assessment is specific to the particular transaction 
under review by the ACCC. While some transaction proposals may involve the 
same or related markets, it should not be assumed that the analysis and 
decision outlined in one Public Competition Assessment will be conclusive of the 
ACCC’s view in respect of other transaction proposals, as each matter will be 
considered on a case-by-case basis. 
7. 
Public Competition Assessments outline the ACCC’s principal reasons for 
forming views on a proposed acquisition at the time the decision was made. As 
such Public Competition Assessments may not definitively identify and explain 
all issues that the ACCC considers arise from a proposed acquisition. Further, 
the ACCC’s decisions generally involve consideration of both non-confidential 
and confidential information provided by the parties and market participants. In 
order to maintain confidentiality, Public Competition Assessments do not contain 
any confidential information nor identify its sources. 
The parties 
The acquirer: Woolworths Limited 
8. 
Woolworths is an Australian and New Zealand retailer. Its operations include 
supermarkets, fuel, liquor, general merchandise stores, hardware and home 
improvement. 
9. 
Woolworths is Australia’s largest grocery retailer. It operates over 800 
supermarkets across Australia. 
The target: Hawker Supa IGA 
10. The Hawker Supa IGA is a 2,000m2 supermarket in the Hawker Group Centre 
(Hawker Centre), a moderately sized retail precinct in the Belconnen district of 
north Canberra. 
11. As an independently owned supermarket retailer, the Hawker Supa IGA 
operates within the IGA banner group under the Supa IGA banner. It is 
considered to be ‘full line’, meaning it is a large format supermarket which retails 
a full range of goods, including packaged groceries, fresh meat, bakery and deli 
products, fresh fruit and vegetables, and frozen foods. It also has a large liquor 
section with both chilled and non-chilled products.  
12. The Hawker Supa IGA and the associated liquor licence are owned by Dealore 
Pty Ltd (Dealore), controlled by the Krnc family, which owns several 
supermarkets in Canberra and nearby areas of NSW. 


 
Page 3 of 17 
Other industry participants 
Coles 
13. Coles is a large supermarket, liquor and fuel retailer. It operates over 700 
supermarkets across Australia, and retails petrol under the Coles Express brand. 
Coles is owned by Wesfarmers Limited, an Australian listed public company with 
diverse business operations in the retail, resources, insurance, chemicals, 
energy, fertilisers and industrial sectors. 
Metcash Limited 
14. Metcash Limited (Metcash) is Australia’s largest grocery, fresh produce, liquor 
and hardware wholesaler and distributor to independently owned retailers. 
Metcash’s IGA Distribution business provides warehousing, distribution and 
marketing of grocery consumables to independent retailers operating under the 
IGA, Supa IGA and IGA Xpress supermarket brands and to other supermarkets 
which do not carry the IGA brand such as FoodWorks, Supabarn, SupaExpress 
and Supabarn Express. Metcash is also a wholesaler to bottleshops under 
banner groups including IGA Liquor, Cellarbrations, Thirsty Camel and the 
Bottle-O, and to hardware retailers under the Mitre 10 and True Value banners. 
ALDI 
15. ALDI is a privately-owned global supermarket operator that entered Australia in 
2001. It has over 250 stores across NSW, the ACT, Queensland and Victoria. In 
February 2013 ALDI announced plans to expand its operations into South 
Australia and Western Australia. 
16. ALDI can be characterised as a limited assortment discounter. Limited 
assortment discounters emphasise private label products, with less depth of 
product range than the full-line supermarkets (such as Woolworths and Coles). 
Various brands of limited assortment discounters operate internationally but in 
Australia ALDI is the only such operator with a significant network. 
Supabarn 
17. Supabarn is an ACT based, privately-owned business that independently 
operates or supplies a number of supermarkets in the ACT (seven stores) and 
NSW (five stores) trading under the Supabarn, SupaExpress and Supabarn 
Express banners. 
SPAR 
18. SPAR Australia is a grocery and packaged liquor wholesaler to around 300 
independently owned supermarkets on the eastern seaboard of Australia under 
the SPAR, 5-STAR and Jardin Fresh Life banners. 
FoodWorks 
19. FoodWorks is an independent retail supermarket group with around 600 
supermarkets in Australia.  


 
Page 4 of 17 
The proposed transaction 
20. Woolworths proposed to acquire the business, business assets and liquor 
licence of the Hawker Supa IGA from Dealore, and rebrand the supermarket as 
Woolworths. Following the proposed acquisition, Dealore would continue to own 
the building and the leasehold land on which the building is located, which would 
then be leased to Woolworths. As such, the vendor would become landlord to 
Woolworths after the proposed acquisition. 
Review timeline 
21. The following table outlines the timeline of key events in this matter. 
Date 
Event 
15 October 2012 
5 November 2012 
6 December 2012 
17 January 2013 
18 January 2013 
28 February 2013 
10 May 2013 
4 July 2013 
ACCC commenced review under the Merger Review Process 
Guidelines. 
Closing date for submissions from interested parties. 
ACCC published a Statement of Issues outlining preliminary 
competition concerns. 
Closing date for submissions relating to Statement of Issues. 
ACCC timeline suspended after Woolworths requested more 
time to respond to the Statement of Issues and an information 
request issued on 19 December 2012. Former proposed 
decision date of 7 February 2013 delayed pending receipt of the 
information. 
ACCC received further information from the merger parties. 
ACCC timeline recommenced. 
Former proposed decision date of 23 May 2013 delayed to 
allow the ACCC to complete additional market consultation 
before finalising its assessment. 
ACCC announced it would not oppose the proposed acquisition. 
Statement of Issues 
22. The ACCC published a Statement of Issues on 6 December 2012. In the 
Statement of Issues, the ACCC expressed a preliminary view that the proposed 
acquisition may have the effect of substantially lessening competition in the local 
retail supermarket market through the removal of an independent full-line 
supermarket that competes with other rivals in the market by providing a price 
and non-price offering that is unique to the local market.  
23. In particular, the ACCC’s market inquiries to that point had indicated that, as the 
only independent full-line supermarket in the local market, the Hawker Supa IGA 
competed strongly to attract customers by differentiating its offer in respect of: 
 promotional pricing, through the Supa IGA promotional cycle, which is unique 
to the local market; 


 
Page 5 of 17 
 elements of its product range, including products and brands unavailable at 
other supermarkets in the local market; and 
 distinctive, high quality service. 
24. The ACCC’s preliminary view was that the proposed acquisition would replace 
the Hawker Supa IGA’s differentiated offer with Woolworths’ offer, which was 
already available nearby. The ACCC expressed concern that the competition 
provided by the Hawker Supa IGA could not be replaced by new entrants or 
other independent market participants, given high barriers to entry and 
expansion. 
25. The ACCC also identified in the Statement of Issues that the proposed 
acquisition (being of a single supermarket) would be unlikely to pose competition 
concerns in state-wide retail and wholesale markets covering NSW and the ACT. 
Market inquiries 
26. The ACCC conducted market inquiries before and after it published its 
Statement of Issues, consulting a range of interested parties, including 
competitors, potential competitors, customers and the ACT Government. 
Submissions were sought in relation to the substantive competition issues. 
27. Following the publication of the Statement of Issues, the ACCC commissioned 
Roy Morgan Research (Roy Morgan) to conduct customer surveys in the local 
area. The purpose of the surveys was to provide additional information to assist 
the ACCC in its assessment of the proposed acquisition and test whether the 
competitive response of the Hawker Supa IGA was so strong that, taken with 
other factors, its removal would be likely to lead to a substantial lessening of 
competition in a market. 
28. Roy Morgan conducted two separate but related surveys:  
 an exit survey of 464 shoppers at the Hawker Supa IGA (at various intervals 
between 7 May 2013 and 23 May 2013 inclusive), who were interviewed upon 
their exit from the store (the exit survey); and  
 a telephone survey of 402 residents (at various intervals between 7 May 2013 
and 13 May 2013 inclusive) in the surrounding suburbs of Hawker, 
Weetangera, Page, Scullin, Higgins, Macquarie and Cook (the telephone 
survey). 
29. In particular, the surveys examined the food and grocery shopping behaviours of 
consumers in the local market, including: 
 which other retailers (including supermarkets and non-supermarkets) were 
considered by customers to be substitutes for the Hawker Supa IGA;  
 the extent to which customers preferred to shop at the Hawker Supa IGA 
because of its competitive activity on price, quality, range and service, as 
described in the Statement of Issues (see also paragraphs 22 and 23 above); 
 the extent to which customers used the Hawker Supa IGA for main grocery 
shopping trips and other types of shopping such as top-up shopping; and 


 
Page 6 of 17 
 whether the proposed acquisition would have a meaningful detrimental impact 
on competition in the local market through a loss of consumer choice. 
30. It is unusual for the ACCC to commission customer surveys for a merger review. 
However, in this case the ACCC considered it appropriate to do so to provide 
additional information to the ACCC to assist its assessment of the issues that 
had been raised in market inquiries, which suggested the Hawker Supa IGA 
competed strongly on price, quality, range and service to differentiate its offer. 
The ACCC does not plan to conduct surveys routinely in merger reviews, but will 
do so when it considers it appropriate. 
Future with and without the acquisition 
31. Section 50 of the Act prohibits mergers or acquisitions that would have the effect 
or be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in any 
market. In assessing a proposed acquisition pursuant to section 50 of the Act, 
the ACCC considers the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future 
competitive environment if the acquisition proceeds (the “with” position) to the 
likely future competitive environment if the acquisition does not proceed (the 
“without” position) to determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in any relevant market. 
32. In this case, the Hawker Supa IGA was found to be a profitable business which 
had recently undergone renovations and was likely to continue operating as an 
independent supermarket if the proposed acquisition did not proceed. As such, 
the ACCC considered that the appropriate ‘without’ position was a continuation 
of the status quo. 
Competition analysis  
33. The ACCC considered the extent of competition and whether the proposed 
acquisition was likely to lead to a substantial lessening of competition by 
replacing the competition provided by the Hawker Supa IGA with an offer from 
Woolworths that was already available locally. 
 
Market definition 
34. The relevant local market was considered to be the retail supply of grocery and 
household products by supermarkets to consumers (the retail supermarket 
market) in the local area surrounding the Hawker Supa IGA, including areas of 
southern and western Belconnen extending as far as the Belconnen Town 
Centre, Jamison Centre (in Macquarie) and the Kippax Centre (in Holt). Broadly, 
these areas are within a radius of 3km from the target (or just outside 3km for the 
Kippax Centre), as shown in the following map. 


 
Page 7 of 17 
Figure 1: Map of area surrounding Hawker Supa IGA 
 
Product dimension 
35. The ACCC considered the extent to which other retail outlets are close 
substitutes for the Hawker Supa IGA, and therefore whether they should be 
considered part of the relevant market. These retail outlets included: 
 full-line supermarkets, such as those typical of the major supermarket chains; 
 limited assortment discounters (i.e. ALDI); 
 smaller format supermarkets in neighbourhood shopping precincts; 
 ‘fresh food markets’, which bring together a range of specialist food retailers 
in a single location; and 
 specialist food retailers such as butchers, bakers and greengrocers. 
36. Supermarkets offer customers the ability to purchase grocery and household 
items across multiple product categories and departments. In this regard, they 
can be distinguished from fresh food market retailers and specialist food retailers 
that each offer a narrower range of products. While these retailers compete with 
supermarkets to some extent, the ACCC did not consider them to be sufficiently 
close substitutes for supermarkets that bring together multiple categories in one 
store and facilitate a single transaction.  
37. The ACCC considered that supermarkets with a similar offer in terms of their 
format, size of store, breadth / depth of product range and service were likely to 
be closer substitutes. While the Hawker Supa IGA is a smaller full-line 
supermarket than the nearby Coles and Woolworths full-line supermarkets, it 


 
Page 8 of 17 
offers a similarly wide range of groceries, delicatessen and fresh produce, with 
multiple brands of common products across multiple categories.  
38. Limited assortment discounters and smaller format supermarkets were also 
considered to be in the same product market, albeit less close substitutes given 
their shallower product range than full-line supermarkets. 
39. The above findings are based on the ACCC’s market inquiries in this and other 
supermarket investigations, and on the customer surveys. In the customer 
surveys, respondents who had shopped at the Hawker Supa IGA were asked 
where they would have shopped if the Hawker Supa IGA had been unavailable.1 
Their responses are summarised in Table 1. 
Table 1: Substitutes for the Hawker Supa IGAa 
Location 
Telephone 
survey 
% of 
respondentsb,c 
Exit survey 
% of 
respondentsb,c 
Jamison Centre: Coles 
67 
44 
Jamison Centre: ALDI 
23 
8 
Kippax Centre: Woolworths 
17 
16 
Westfield Belconnen: Coles 
17 
7 
Westfield Belconnen: Woolworths 
15 
6 
Cook: Friendly Grocer 
8 
3 
Belconnen Markets: Various 
5 
2 
Kippax Centre: ALDI 
5 
3 
Jamison Centre: Green Grocer and Deli 
5 
* 
Florey Shops: SupaExpress 
4 
7 
Westfield Belconnen: ALDI 
4 
3 
Nowhere (would not have shopped) 
* 
9 
Number of respondents 
250 
464 
Source: Roy Morgan telephone survey and exit survey.  
Notes: a) Responses to question: where customers would shop if the Hawker Supa IGA had been 
unavailable.  
b) Numbers of respondents are: for the telephone survey, the number of respondents who had 
shopped at the Hawker Supa IGA in the past four weeks; and for the exit survey, of all 
respondents.  
c) Customers were permitted to give multiple responses and therefore percentages do not add to 
100 per cent. 
* zero or rounds to zero. 
40. As shown in Table 1, the evidence indicated a preference by consumers to 
switch to other supermarkets, rather than specialist retailers.  
41. Given the considerations above, the ACCC concluded that the product 
dimension of the relevant market was the retail supermarket market. 
                                                 
1  Of the total 402 respondents to the telephone survey, 152 had not shopped at the Hawker 
Supa IGA in the past four weeks. These respondents were not asked this question. 


 
Page 9 of 17 
Geographic dimension 
42. Consistent with the ACCC’s preliminary views in the Statement of Issues, the 
ACCC found that the relevant geographic dimension of the local market extends 
to about 3km from the target site and includes the supermarkets at Jamison 
Centre (in Macquarie), Kippax Centre (in Holt) and Belconnen Town Centre 
(Westfield Belconnen), and the suburbs in between. This conclusion was 
informed by the survey results and other information, which showed that 
customers did not view supermarkets any further afield as a sufficiently close 
substitute for the Hawker Supa IGA to include them in the same local market. 
The information indicated that customers were only willing to travel short 
distances to access a substitute supermarket. 
Closeness of competition between market participants 
43. The ACCC takes into account the closeness of competition or rivalry between 
competing firms in the market to determine which firms exert the most 
competitive constraint on one another. If a merger involves firms that are 
considered by a significant proportion of their customers to be close competitors, 
then competition concerns are more likely to be raised if this rivalry is lost as a 
result of a merger. 
44. Based on the survey results and other available information showing customers’ 
shopping preferences, the ACCC found Woolworths’ supermarkets not to be 
close rivals with the Hawker Supa IGA, relative to other competitors, especially 
the Coles supermarket at the Jamison Centre (Coles Jamison). In particular, 
the Woolworths supermarket at the Kippax Centre in Holt was found by 
customers to be a relatively weak substitute, given the short distances 
customers were willing to travel for an alternative supermarket, and the Kippax 
Centre’s more distant location to the north-west.  
45. The other Woolworths supermarket is situated within a large, multi-level, 
Westfield shopping centre at Belconnen Town Centre. There is also a Coles and 
ALDI there. Even though these supermarkets are closest geographically to the 
Hawker Supa IGA, the surveys clearly indicated that the Woolworths 
supermarkets were a less close substitute than Coles Jamison and ALDI at the 
Jamison Centre (see Table 1). While 67 per cent of telephone survey 
respondents and 44 per cent of exit survey respondents nominated Coles at the 
Jamison Centre as a substitute for the Hawker Supa IGA, each of the 
supermarkets at Westfield Belconnen were identified as a substitute by no more 
than 17 per cent of respondents to either survey. The ACCC observed that a 
likely contributing factor for the weaker level of constraint imposed on the 
Hawker Supa IGA by Woolworths and the other supermarkets at Westfield 
Belconnen was that access through a multi-level car park and shopping mall was 
more difficult than ground-level access at other shopping centres in the local 
market. 
46. The ACCC found that Coles Jamison posed the strongest constraint on the 
Hawker Supa IGA. The Jamison Centre is located in the suburb of Macquarie, 
about 2.7km south-east of the Hawker Supa IGA in a straight line. It is an easily 
accessible shopping centre on a single level with good parking, and also has an 
ALDI supermarket. Coles Jamison provides a full-line offer, suitable for a variety 
of shopping trip purposes (e.g. a main grocery shop or a top-up shop). 


 
Page 10 of 17 
47. The customer surveys demonstrated that Coles Jamison was seen as a 
substitute by far more of the Hawker Supa IGA’s customers than any other 
shopping destination. They also showed that even regular shoppers at the 
Hawker Supa IGA also undertake their shopping at the Jamison Centre. These 
results indicated that Coles Jamison was a much closer constraint on the 
Hawker Supa IGA than the Woolworths supermarkets in the local market. 
48. The ACCC found that ALDI also provides competitive tension in the local market, 
especially at the nearby Jamison Centre, given there is also a Coles at that 
centre and given its proximity to the Hawker Centre. While ALDI provides price 
competition, as a limited assortment discounter it generally does not provide the 
same depth of range as a full-line supermarket. Table 1 shows that some 
customers of the Hawker Supa IGA, especially those canvassed in the telephone 
survey, considered ALDI to be a substitute. However, in each location where 
there was an ALDI and a full-line supermarket (the Jamison Centre, Kippax 
Centre and Westfield Belconnen), ALDI was the weaker preference. The ACCC 
noted that some consumers use ALDI to complement their main grocery shop, 
and therefore shop at both ALDI and a full-line supermarket. 
49. The ACCC found the independent stores in the local market (other than Hawker 
Supa IGA) were smaller format stores and therefore exercised a weaker 
competitive constraint on full-line supermarkets. Nevertheless, these stores are 
attractive to some consumers, especially those that make small grocery 
purchases (e.g. to buy products for immediate use). However the ACCC found 
the SPAR store in Holt did not provide a meaningful constraint on the Hawker 
Supa IGA, because of the distance between them. 
50. Accordingly, the ACCC considered the strongest constraints on the Hawker site 
were the supermarkets located at Jamison. While the Woolworths at Kippax and 
Westfield Belconnen are clearly substitutes, the survey indicated that they are 
less close substitutes for the Hawker Supa IGA than the Jamison supermarkets. 
After the proposed acquisition, Woolworths would replace the Supa IGA at 
Hawker and compete most closely with the Coles and ALDI at Jamison. 
Accordingly, if Coles had sought to acquire the Hawker Supa IGA it would have 
raised different and potentially more significant competition concerns. 


 
Page 11 of 17 
Competitive behaviour of the Hawker Supa IGA 
51. The ACCC’s conclusion that Woolworths’ supermarkets in the local market were 
weaker constraints than those at the Jamison Centre was relevant to the 
ACCC’s conclusion that the proposed acquisition would not be likely to lead to a 
substantial lessening of competition. However, as outlined earlier, market 
inquiries had indicated that the Hawker Supa IGA competes to attract customers 
from its rivals by differentiating its offer. Part of the ACCC’s review therefore 
focused on whether the loss of this competitive response would be likely to lead 
to a substantial lessening of competition in any market.  
52. The ACCC drew on information from various sources, including the customer 
surveys, market inquiries and confidential information provided by the parties 
about their supermarkets. The customer surveys provided the ACCC with 
additional information about the competitive process. Respondents to the exit 
survey were asked to identify the main reasons they shopped at the Hawker 
Supa IGA. Respondents were also asked to identify the other grocery shopping 
destination where they had spent the most money in the past four weeks, and 
the main reasons they shopped there. Table 2 summarises the results.  


 
Page 12 of 17 
Table 2: Main reasons for visiting the Hawker Supa IGA and main other 
grocery shopping destinationa 
Main reasons 
Hawker  
Supa IGA  
% of 
respondentsb,c 
Main other 
destination 
% of 
respondentsb,c 
Location 
Close to home 
81 
32 
Close to work or other destination 
14 
12 
Close to other shops I visit 
9 
11 
Parking 
Good parking 
44 
13 
Price 
Good ordinary shelf prices or good 
everyday prices 
10 
41 
Promotional pricing or good specials 
13 
9 
Quality 
Quality of the products 
15 
9 
Layout, cleanliness or other physical 
characteristics 
16 
5 
Range 
Range of products stocked 
30 
29 
Good store for liquor 
9 
* 
Availability of your favourite brands 
16 
9 
Has products you can't easily get elsewhere 
11 
7 
Service 
 
 
Customer service or the staff 
31 
4 
Opening hours 
23 
10 
Speed of service at checkouts 
26 
4 
Other 
Prefer small/independent businesses 
4 
1 
Dislike Coles and Woolworths 
3 
* 
Loyalty scheme / fuel dockets 
* 
4 
Total number of respondents 
464 
425 
Source: Roy Morgan exit survey. 
Notes: a) Responses to question: main reasons for shopping at Hawker Supa IGA or (for right-
hand column) at the customer’s main grocery shopping destination (where they had spent the most 
money on groceries in the past four weeks other than at the Hawker Supa IGA). 
b) Numbers of respondents are: for Hawker Supa IGA (left-hand column), the number of all 
respondents that had shopped at Hawker Supa IGA in the past four weeks; and for main other 
destination (right-hand column), the number of respondents that had also shopped at another 
grocery shopping destination in the past four weeks. 
c) Customers were permitted to give multiple responses and therefore percentages do not add to 
100. 
* denotes zero or rounded to zero. 


 
Page 13 of 17 
53. In addition to identifying the main reasons they shopped at the Hawker Supa 
IGA, respondents were also asked to identify the most important reason they 
shopped at the Hawker Supa IGA and at their main other grocery shopping 
destination (see Table 3). 
Table 3: Most important reason for visiting the Hawker Supa IGA and main 
other grocery shopping destinationa 
Most important reason 
Hawker  
Supa IGA  
% of 
respondentsb,c 
Main other 
destination 
% of 
respondentsb,c 
Location 
Close to home 
58 
19 
Close to work or other destination 
9 
8 
Close to other shops I visit 
2 
4 
Parking 
Parking 
5 
2 
Price 
 
 
Good ordinary shelf prices or good 
everyday prices 
* 
29 
Promotional pricing or good specials 
2 
2 
Quality 
Quality of the products 
* 
4 
Range 
Range of products stocked 
4 
13 
Has products I can't easily get elsewhere 
2 
3 
Availability of my favourite brands 
* 
2 
Service 
Customer service or staff 
4 
* 
Speed of service at checkouts 
2 
* 
Other 
 
 
Don't like Coles/Woolworths 
2 
* 
Total number of respondents 
464 
425 
Source: Roy Morgan exit survey.  
Notes: a) Responses to question: most important reason for shopping at Hawker Supa IGA or (for 
right-hand column) at the customer’s main grocery shopping destination (where they had spent the 
most money on groceries in the past four weeks other than at the Hawker Supa IGA).  
b) Numbers of respondents are: for Hawker Supa IGA (left-hand column), the number of all 
respondents that had shopped at Hawker Supa IGA in the past four weeks; and for main other 
destination (right-hand column), the number of respondents that had also shopped at another 
grocery shopping destination in the past four weeks. 
* denotes less than two per cent. Categories with less than two per cent in both columns are not 
shown. 
54. The results from the telephone survey (not shown) were broadly similar to the 
results from the exit survey (identified in Table 2 and Table 3 above). Each of the 
attributes of the Hawker Supa IGA’s competitive position is considered in more 
detail below. 


 
Page 14 of 17 
Location and parking 
55. As shown in Table 2, over 80 per cent of respondents identified location (close to 
home) as a main reason for shopping at the Hawker Supa IGA. In addition, 58 
per cent of respondents identified it as the most important reason for shopping 
there (see Table 3). The ACCC found that the Hawker Supa IGA provided a 
convenient shopping option for consumers that lived nearby, but did not attract 
many customers from outside the suburbs immediately surrounding it (as 
compared to other major supermarkets in the local area). Most of the customers 
that shop at the Hawker Supa IGA live in Hawker or one of the four nearby 
suburbs of Page, Weetangera, Scullin or Higgins (78 per cent of respondents in 
the exit survey). 
56. Parking facilities were also rated highly by respondents. Location and parking 
will always be important factors in customers’ decisions about where to shop for 
groceries. Therefore it was still important to understand the competitive effect of 
other aspects of the Hawker Supa IGA’s offer (as discussed below). 
Nevertheless, in this case it was notable that the importance of location was 
substantially lower for the main other shopping destination that customers 
identified. 
57. The ACCC noted that the proposed acquisition would not change the location of 
the supermarket at the Hawker Centre, nor would it change parking facilities in 
the foreseeable future. The ACCC also noted that there is an ACT Government 
imposed moratorium on any development at the Hawker Centre until February 
2015. 
Price, quality, range and service 
58. Initial market feedback had indicated that the Hawker Supa IGA competed 
strongly on non-price aspects (quality, range and service), and to a lesser extent 
on price. The ACCC found that while the Hawker Supa IGA does seek to 
differentiate itself from the major supermarket chains by competing on these 
aspects of its offer, the significance of its competitive behaviour to competition in 
the broader local market was more limited than initial inquiries had indicated.  
Price 
59. The Hawker Supa IGA (as part of the IGA chain) offers a weekly promotional 
cycle, advertised through a weekly catalogue. It also offers its own in-store 
discounting (e.g. manager specials) on particular products. Other supermarket 
chains such as Coles, Woolworths and ALDI also run their own promotional 
cycles.  
60. The ACCC found the promotional cycle of the Hawker Supa IGA (as part of the 
IGA network) was attractive to customers. As the only Supa IGA in the local 
market, the Hawker Supa IGA’s promotional cycle was unique in that market. 
However, the ACCC considered that consumers would continue to have the 
opportunity to shop at a variety of supermarkets within the local market in order 
to benefit from various promotional offers. 
61. By contrast, ordinary shelf prices did not rate highly in the surveys as a reason 
for visiting the Hawker Supa IGA, compared to other supermarkets. Other 


 
Page 15 of 17 
aspects of the Hawker Supa IGA’s offer were more important reasons why 
customers shopped there, including quality, range and service. 
Quality 
62. Market participants may respond competitively by promoting a high level of 
quality, both in terms of product quality and their total retail offer. The results of 
the customer surveys showed that some customers valued the quality of 
products and total retail offer at the Hawker Supa IGA. These perceptions of 
quality are consistent with the ACCC’s market inquiries which had indicated the 
quality of products and the overall presentation of the Hawker Supa IGA to be of 
a high standard.  
Range 
63. The ACCC compared products available at the Hawker Supa IGA and 
Woolworths. It also considered the range of products offered by other market 
participants more broadly. These comparisons revealed that the vast majority of 
products stocked by the Hawker Supa IGA were common grocery products and 
household goods that could be found in most supermarkets. Only a small 
number of products were not available at other supermarkets. Nevertheless, the 
ACCC did note that certain differentiated products were placed prominently in 
the supermarket. They appeared to be positioned so as to encourage customers 
into the store to buy a broader basket of products. The customer surveys 
showed that the Hawker Supa IGA’s product range attracted some customers to 
the supermarket, including those who perceived that the Hawker Supa IGA had 
products that couldn’t be purchased easily elsewhere.  
Service 
64. Another non-price aspect by which market participants compete to attract 
shoppers is the level of service. The ACCC received a number of submissions 
from consumers suggesting that the Hawker Supa IGA offers higher levels of 
service than its competitors. This is consistent with the survey results which 
showed that customers were more likely to visit the Hawker Supa IGA because 
of its service, than they were to visit other supermarkets because of their service.  
Conclusion on competitive behaviour of the Hawker Supa IGA 
65. The ACCC’s inquiries, including the customer surveys, showed clearly that 
customers valued aspects of the differentiated offer of the Hawker Supa IGA, 
especially its service and quality. This represents an element of competition that 
would be lost from the local market as a result of the proposed acquisition. 
However, it was also relevant that the Hawker Supa IGA’s differentiated offer did 
not appear sufficient to draw many customers from beyond the closest 
surrounding suburbs. 
Barriers to entry 
66. The ACCC did not receive any new information in response to the Statement of 
Issues that would change its preliminary position on barriers to entry. The local 
market is characterised by high barriers to entry for establishing a new 
supermarket, or expanding an existing one. These barriers include a scarcity of 


 
Page 16 of 17 
suitable sites, regulatory restrictions on expansion activity, lead times and sunk 
costs. 
Conclusion on local retail supermarket market 
67. The ACCC concluded that the proposed acquisition would result in some loss of 
competition, but that it was insufficient to reach the threshold of a substantial 
lessening of competition required to establish a breach of s.50 of the Act.  
68. A significant factor for the ACCC in reaching this conclusion was that 
Woolworths did not have a strong competitive location in relation to the Hawker 
site, compared to Coles and ALDI at the Jamison Centre. As a consequence, the 
Hawker Supa IGA and Woolworths supermarkets in the local market were not 
close competitors. The conclusion may have been different if Coles were the 
acquirer, given the nearby Coles and the closeness of competition between the 
Jamison Centre and Hawker Centre sites. 
69. The competitive behaviour of the Hawker Supa IGA in terms of its differentiated 
offer was attractive to some customers, and that competitive dynamic would be 
lost as a result of the proposed acquisition. However, the Hawker Supa IGA’s 
differentiated offer was not strong enough to attract customers from beyond the 
suburbs immediately surrounding it. Therefore, with Woolworths as the acquirer, 
the ACCC concluded on balance that the lessening of competition was not 
substantial. 
Competition analysis – state-wide retail supermarket 
market 
70. The ACCC also considered whether the proposed acquisition would be likely to 
have the effect of substantially lessening competition in the retail supermarket 
market in NSW and the ACT. The ACCC found that this would be unlikely 
because the transfer of a single supermarket would result in only a very small 
increase in state wide market share for Woolworths. Further, it would not result 
in a reduction in the number of operators and retail chains competing with 
Woolworths on a state-wide level. It would therefore not be likely to have a 
substantial impact on competition in the state-wide market. 
Competition analysis – wholesale procurement and supply 
markets 
71. The ACCC also considered whether the proposed acquisition would be likely to 
lead to a substantial lessening of competition in the wholesale procurement and 
supply of grocery products sold in supermarkets in NSW and the ACT. The 
ACCC found that the sale of the Hawker Supa IGA to Woolworths on its own 
would be unlikely to have a substantial effect on the viability of wholesale 
operations, either for existing competitors or potential new entrants. Further, the 
ACCC considered that the lost volume from this single supermarket would be 
unlikely to have a significant effect on competition in the wholesale procurement 
market. 


 
Page 17 of 17 
Conclusion 
72. On the basis of the reasons set out above, the ACCC formed the view that the 
proposed acquisition of the Hawker Supa IGA by Woolworths would not be likely 
to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in any market in 
contravention of section 50 of the Act. 
