 
Page 1 of 15 
 
Statement of Issues 
30 November 2017 
 Moly-Cop – proposed acquisition of Donhad  
Purpose 
 
Commonwealth Steel Company Pty Limited (Moly-Cop) (100 per cent owned by 
1.
American Industrial Partners) proposes to acquire Donhad Pty Ltd (Donhad) 
from Valmont Industries, Inc.  
 
This Statement of Issues: 
2.
 
gives the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission’s (ACCC’s) 
preliminary views on competition issues arising from the proposed 
acquisition  
 
identifies areas of further inquiry 
 
invites interested parties to submit comments and information to assist our 
assessment of the issues. 
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views 
 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is 
3.
in section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits 
acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of 
substantially lessening competition in any market. 
 
The ACCC divides its preliminary views into three categories, 'issues of concern', 
4.
'issues that may raise concerns' and ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’. 
Issues that may raise concerns 
 
The ACCC is assessing whether the proposed acquisition would be likely to 
5.
substantially lessen competition for the supply of steel grinding media in 
Australia, by providing Moly-Cop with the ability and incentive to raise prices 
and/or lower service quality for the following reasons:  


Moly-Cop – proposed acquisition of Donhad 
 
Page 2 of 15 
 
the proposed acquisition would remove Moly-Cop’s only domestic 
competitor, resulting in only one domestic supplier of steel grinding media 
in Australia 
 
potential new entry into the manufacture of steel grinding media in 
Australia may be inhibited by high barriers to entry, and 
 
while imports account for 35-45 per cent of the grinding media supplied in 
Australia, there are concerns regarding whether imported steel grinding 
media are able to provide a sufficient constraint post-merger. 
Making a submission 
 
The ACCC is seeking submissions from interested parties, particularly on the 
6.
following key issues: 
 
how closely Moly-Cop and Donhad compete in terms of their price, quality 
and service offering 
 
how closely overseas manufacturers compete with Moly-Cop and Donhad 
to supply grinding media to customers in Australia, including whether there 
are obstacles to customers switching to using imported grinding media, or 
increasing their use of imported steel grinding media, and 
 
the extent of barriers to entry into the manufacture of steel grinding media 
in Australia. 
 
Detailed discussion of these and other issues, along with specific questions, is 
7.
contained in this Statement of Issues.  
 
Interested parties should provide submissions by no later than 5pm on 
8.
21 December 2017. Responses may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with 
the title: Submission re: Moly-Cop Donhad attention Serena Wong / Bettina 
Forde. If you would like to discuss the matter with ACCC officers over the 
telephone or in person, or have any questions about this Statement of Issues, 
please contact Serena Wong on 02 9230 9188 or Bettina Forde on 02 9230 
9134.  
 
The ACCC anticipates making a final decision on 1 March 2018, however, this 
9.
timeline can change. To keep abreast of possible changes in relation to timing 
and to find relevant documents, interested parties should visit the Mergers 
Register on the ACCC's website at www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
Confidentiality of submissions 
 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We 
10.
will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) 
unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation 
or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition 
and Consumer Act 2010.  Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where possible so that you may 
have an opportunity to be heard.  Therefore, if the information provided to the 
ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 


Moly-Cop – proposed acquisition of Donhad 
 
Page 3 of 15 
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’ 
 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
11.
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well 
as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
12.
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 
Timeline 
Date 
Event 
15 September 2017 
ACCC commenced informal review of the proposed 
acquisition under the Merger Process Guidelines 
30 November 2017 
ACCC publication of Statement of Issues 
21 December 2017 
Deadline for submissions from interested parties in 
response to this Statement of Issues 
1 March 2018 
Anticipated date for ACCC final decision  
The parties 
Moly-Cop 
 
Moly-Cop is the world’s largest manufacturer of steel grinding media, which are 
13.
used in the processing of minerals including copper, gold and iron ore. Moly-Cop 
has manufacturing facilities in Australia, Canada, Chile, Indonesia, Mexico, Peru, 
and the United States. 
 
Moly-Cop has one manufacturing facility, Waratah, in Australia, which is located 
14.
in Newcastle, NSW. Moly-Cop manufactures forged steel grinding media at this 
facility. Moly-Cop also manufactures steel and rail consumables, including 
railway wheels, at its Waratah site. 
 
On 3 January 2017, Moly-Cop was sold to American Industrial Partners by 
15.
Arrium Limited Australia. 
Donhad 
 
Donhad is a manufacturer of steel grinding media and specialty forged fasteners 
16.
primarily used in the mining and mineral processing industry. Donhad is 100 per 
cent owned by Valmont Industries Inc., a public company based in the United 
States. 


Moly-Cop – proposed acquisition of Donhad 
 
Page 4 of 15 
 
In Australia, Donhad has three steel grinding media manufacturing sites, located 
17.
in Newcastle, Townsville and Perth. Donhad manufactures forged steel grinding 
media at these sites. Donhad does not have any manufacturing facilities outside 
of Australia. 
 
The only product supplied in Australia by both Moly-Cop and Donhad is forged 
18.
steel grinding media. 
Other industry participants 
 
There are no other manufacturers of steel grinding media in Australia. A number 
19.
of overseas manufacturers supply steel grinding media in Australia. 
ME Elecmetal 
 
Compañía Electro Metalúrgica S.A. Elecmetal S.A. (ME Elecmetal) supplies 
20.
wear components and solutions for the mining and construction industry.  
 
ME Elecmetal supplies steel grinding media to customers in Australia from its 
21.
joint venture manufacturing facility in China with Changshu Long Teng Special 
Steel Co., Ltd (Long Teng). 
 
ME Elecmetal is the largest supplier of imported steel grinding media in 
22.
Australia, and the third largest supplier of grinding media in Australia after the 
merger parties. 
Long Teng 
 
Long Teng is based in Changshu, China, and owns steel making and rolling 
23.
operations via subsidiaries. In addition to its joint venture with ME Elecmetal, 
Long Teng independently supplies steel grinding media, which are sold primarily 
through traders and is almost exclusively exported.  
Sigdo Koppers S.A (Magotteaux) 
 
Sigdo Koppers S.A is a Chilean conglomerate, and the parent company of 
24.
Magotteaux. Magotteaux, based in Liège, Belgium, produces high and low 
chrome grinding balls at various locations around the world including in Belgium, 
Brazil, USA, Canada and Thailand.  
Vega 
 
Vega Industries Limited (Vega), a subsidiary of AIA Engineering Ltd., produces 
25.
high chrome grinding balls, with manufacturing plants in India.  
Metso 
 
Metso supplies forged steel and high chrome grinding media from its facilities in 
26.
Bilbao and Seville, Spain. 
Other Chinese suppliers and importers 
 
There are a number of other Chinese manufacturers of steel grinding media, 
27.
each of which has substantial global manufacturing capacity, but relatively 


Moly-Cop – proposed acquisition of Donhad 
 
Page 5 of 15 
limited current presence in Australia. These manufacturers include: Shandong 
Huamin, Hebei Goldpro, Changshu Feifan Metalwork Co., Ltd, Xingcheng 
Special Steel (a subsidiary of CITIC Limited), and Sino Grinding (which operates 
in Australia through its agent Boliver International). 
Industry background 
Overview 
 
Grinding media are primarily used in Australia by the mining industry; in 
28.
particular, in mining for copper, gold, and iron ore. Grinding media, which are 
typically steel balls or rods, are the consumable component used in a grinding 
mill to crush or grind mineral ore. The grinding reduces the ore material down to 
a fine size to enable the liberation of the desired mineral element from the waste 
(rock) material. Grinding media are also used in other industries, including coal 
pulverizing for electricity production and grinding plaster and cement in the 
construction industry. 
Forged steel and high chrome grinding media 
 
Moly-Cop and Donhad both manufacture forged steel grinding media. The 
29.
ACCC’s review is therefore focussed on steel grinding media, which can broadly 
be separated into forged steel grinding media and high chrome grinding media. 
 
Forged steel grinding media are made from alloy steel, typically produced in 
30.
sizes from 25mm to 150mm. Suppliers of forged steel grinding media include 
Moly-Cop, Donhad, ME Elecmetal, Long Teng and various Chinese suppliers 
and importers. 
 
High chrome grinding media typically has a higher ‘wear’ resistance than forged 
31.
steel grinding media, but may be more susceptible to breaking. They are 
typically used in smaller sizes than forged steel grinding media (under 
100mm).They are also more expensive than forged steel grinding media 
because the levels of chromium in the product increase the manufacturing cost. 
High chrome grinding media are not manufactured in Australia. Overseas 
manufacturers who import to Australia include Magotteaux and Vega. 
 
The type of steel grinding media used by customers depends on their milling 
32.
circuit, the volume of ore processed, the characteristics of the ore (such as its 
abrasiveness) and the final particle size required.  
 
There are different types of grinding mills, which are used for different purposes. 
33.
The two main types of mills that use forged steel grinding media manufactured 
by Moly-Cop and Donhad are:  
 
semi-autogenous grinding (SAG) mills, which are used for coarse grinding. 
SAG mills primarily use forged steel grinding media. As they are used for 
coarse grinding, SAG mills typically use grinding media in larger sizes (eg. 
100mm in diameter and above). 
 
ball mills are similar to SAG mills in that they also use a tumbling motion. 
Compared to SAG mills, ball mills generally utilise smaller sized grinding balls 
to grind the ore into a fine powder or smaller particles, and may be used after 
SAG mills to further grind the relevant ore. Ball mills are less reliant on impact 


Moly-Cop – proposed acquisition of Donhad 
 
Page 6 of 15 
than SAG mills, and more reliant on abrasion to break down the ore. Ball mills 
may use either forged steel or high chrome grinding media. 
Import duties 
 
In November 2015, Moly-Cop and Donhad applied for the imposition of a 
34.
dumping duty notice and a countervailing duty notice in respect of grinding balls 
exported to Australia from China. Moly-Cop and Donhad alleged that the 
Australian industry had suffered material injury as a result of grinding balls 
exported to Australia from China at dumped and subsidised prices. 
 
The Anti-Dumping Commission (ADC) published its conclusions in respect of the 
35.
application in June 2016.1 The ADC determined that the grinding balls exported 
to Australia from China during the relevant investigation were at dumped and 
subsidised prices. The dumping margins found by the ADC differ by supplier and 
are set out below.  
Table 1: Dumping margins for Chinese grinding ball imports into Australia2 
Exporter/manufacturer 
Dumping margin 
Changshu Longte Grinding Ball Co., Ltd (parent company of Long Teng) 
and ME Elecmetal 
3.0% 
CITIC 
20.6% 
Jiangsu Yute Grinding International Co., Ltd 
43.3% 
Hebei Goldpro 
51.5% 
Exporters that did not cooperate with the ADC’s investigation and all other 
exporters 
95.4% 
 
As a result of the ADC’s findings, fixed and variable duties are applied to all 
36.
grinding media exported to Australia from China, in accordance with the dumping 
margins shown in Table 1. The duties will remain in force for five years, unless 
they are successfully appealed or subsequently reviewed. Longte has applied to 
the Federal Court for judicial review of the Ministerial decision to impose the 
duties. The outcome of its appeal is yet to be determined. 
 
An affected party may also apply for a review or a revocation of a dumping duty 
37.
notice 12 months after publication of the original notice. Alternatively, the 
Minister may request that the Commissioner initiate a review at any time.3 
 
However, even if the duties remain in force, ME Elecmetal and Long Teng, who 
38.
are the largest suppliers of Chinese forged steel grinding media to Australia, 
were found to have the lowest dumping margins of any Chinese suppliers. 
Accordingly, the duties may have only limited impact on the total quantity of 
grinding media that are imported into Australia. The ACCC welcomes any 
feedback on this point. 
                                                 
 
1 Anti-Dumping Commission – Customers Act 1901 – Part XVB – Report No. 316 “Alleged dumping and subsidisation 
of grinding balls exported from the People’s Republic of China”, 6 June 2016 
(http://www.adcommission.gov.au/cases/EPR%20301%20%20350/EPR%20316%20-
%20archived%209%20December%202016/054%20-%20Final%20Report%20316.pdf) 
2 Ibid, page 9. A dumping margin is the difference between the price at which a good is imported into Australia, and the 
normal value of the good in the exporting country. 
3 Anti-Dumping Commission, Dumping and Subsidy Manual April 2017, p 161. 


Moly-Cop – proposed acquisition of Donhad 
 
Page 7 of 15 
 
The duties described above only apply to grinding balls manufactured in China. 
39.
This means that grinding balls manufactured in other parts of the world, such as 
those produced by the largest high chrome suppliers – Vega, Sigdo Koppers S.A 
(Magotteaux), and Metso – are unaffected by these duties. 
Market definition 
 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the relevant market for assessing the likely 
40.
competitive effects of the proposed acquisition is the national market for the 
supply of steel grinding media, which includes both forged steel grinding media 
and high chrome grinding media. 
Product dimension 
Demand-side substitutability 
 
The ACCC’s starting point for delineating the relevant markets in which to 
41.
assess the competitive effects of the proposed acquisition involves identifying 
the products actually or potentially supplied by both of the parties. The ACCC 
then considers what other products constitute sufficiently close substitutes to 
provide a significant source of constraint on the merged firm. 
 
The merger parties both supply forged steel grinding media. The closest 
42.
substitute for forged steel grinding media from a demand-side perspective is high 
chrome grinding media. The primary issue for market definition in this case is 
therefore the closeness of substitution between high chrome grinding media and 
forged steel grinding media. 
 
The ACCC understands that forged steel grinding media and high chrome 
43.
grinding media serve the same functional purpose. But the extent to which high 
chrome grinding media would be used in place of forged steel grinding media 
depends on the type of mill and application, as well as the price difference 
between the products.  
 
In particular, due to the high impact operations of SAG mills, high chrome 
44.
grinding media are not suited for use in SAG mills. This is because the chemical 
composition of high chrome grinding media makes it more brittle than forged 
steel grinding media, and prone to higher rates of breakage than forged steel if 
used in a SAG mill. As such, high chrome grinding media may not be a close 
substitute for forged steel grinding media in SAG mills. 
 
In contrast, the ACCC understands that high chrome grinding media are 
45.
generally substitutable for forged steel grinding media in ball mills, which are 
lower impact than SAG mills (though its suitability will also depend on factors 
including the characteristics of the ore). In this circumstance, the higher wear 
resistance of high chrome media can lead to a reduced consumption rate. While 
high chrome grinding media may have a higher per unit purchase price than 
forged steel media, the lower consumption rate can mean that the value in using 
high chrome grinding media (which takes into account the price of the grinding 
media in addition to its expected consumption rate) may be greater than the 
value in using forged steel media for some customers. 
 
The ACCC has been provided with examples of customers that have switched 
46.
from using forged steel media to high chrome grinding media in recent years. It 


Moly-Cop – proposed acquisition of Donhad 
 
Page 8 of 15 
is considering whether those examples are isolated, and driven by the particular 
circumstances of individual mines, or whether they are demonstrative of broader 
substitution possibilities between forged steel and high chrome grinding media in 
Australian ball mills. 
Supply side substitutability 
 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that there appears to be limited supply side 
47.
substitutability between forged steel grinding media and high chrome grinding 
media. 
 
The ACCC understands that most manufacturers of grinding media tend to focus 
48.
on the supply of one type of grinding media (forged steel or high chrome grinding 
media). Due to the different processes involved in manufacturing, it is unlikely 
that a manufacturer of high chrome grinding media would be able to easily 
switch to manufacturing forged steel grinding media with their existing facilities in 
the event of a rise in the price of forged steel grinding media and vice versa. 
However, we would welcome further market feedback on this point. 
Conclusion on product dimension 
 
For the purpose of this Statement of Issues, the ACCC is considering the 
49.
proposed acquisition in the context of a market for the supply of all steel grinding 
media, including both forged steel grinding media and high chrome grinding 
media.  
 
However, the ACCC has not reached a concluded view in this regard. Further, 
50.
the ACCC notes that the proposed acquisition may have a greater impact on 
customers that use SAG mills, given the more limited substitution possibilities 
that are available to those customers. Accordingly, where appropriate, the 
ACCC’s competition analysis focuses on the particular impact of the proposed 
acquisition on the supply of forged steel grinding media, but otherwise refers to 
the effect of the proposed acquisition on the supply of steel grinding media. 
Geographic dimension 
 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition should be 
51.
considered in the context of a national market for the supply of steel grinding 
media. 
 
Market feedback indicates that while it is desirable for a supplier to have a 
52.
manufacturing facility located in the same state as a customer, this is not a 
necessary requirement of supply. Steel grinding media are frequently 
transported across states and supplied nationally by importers, and suppliers 
have established distribution networks, including depots, and warehousing 
facilities, across Australia. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants regarding the ACCC’s 
preliminary views on relevant markets. In particular, market participants may wish to 
comment on the following: 
Customers 
a) Do you consider high chrome grinding media to be substitutable for forged 


Moly-Cop – proposed acquisition of Donhad 
 
Page 9 of 15 
steel grinding media? Please provide reasons for your answer. 
b) If you have experience using high chrome grinding media and forged steel 
grinding media, how does the value in use/consumption rate of both types of 
media compare? 
c) Have you, or would you, switch your purchases of forged steel grinding media 
to high chrome grinding media, in response to changes in price, service levels, 
quality of product or any other reason (and vice versa)? Why/why not? 
 
Suppliers of grinding media 
 
d) For what types of customers, and for what applications, is high chrome grinding 
media least / most substitutable for forged steel grinding media? 
e) What proportion of total grinding media acquired in Australia is constituted by: 
 
i. 
Existing use of forged steel grinding media? 
ii. 
Forged steel grinding media in circumstances where high chrome grinding 
media are a close substitute? 
 
f) Would you be able to switch to supplying forged steel grinding media in 
Australia in addition to, or in place of, high chrome grinding media (and vice 
versa) in the event of an increase in the price of forged steel grinding media in 
Australia? Please provide reasons for your answer, including any obstacles, 
and the likely cost and timeframe for manufacturing other types of grinding 
media. 
Issue that may be of concern: supply of steel grinding 
media 
Overview of potential competitive harms 
 
Based upon its inquiries to date, the ACCC considers the proposed acquisition 
53.
may substantially lessen competition in the supply of steel grinding media by 
providing Moly-Cop with the ability and incentive to raise prices and/or lower 
service quality, for the following reasons: 
 
the proposed acquisition would remove Moly-Cop’s only domestic 
competitor, resulting in only one domestic supplier of  steel grinding media 
in Australia 
 
potential new entry into the manufacture of steel grinding media in 
Australia may be inhibited by high barriers to entry, and 
 
while imports account for 35-45 per cent of the grinding media supplied in 
Australia, there are concerns regarding whether imported grinding media 
are able to provide a sufficient constraint post-merger. 


Moly-Cop – proposed acquisition of Donhad 
 
Page 10 of 15 
Competition between the merger parties 
 
The merger parties are the two largest suppliers of steel grinding media to 
54.
Australian customers in terms of quantities of goods supplied. Together, they 
would supply approximately 55-65 per cent of total domestic demand for all steel 
grinding media (including high chrome grinding media and forged steel grinding 
media), and 65-75 per cent of the total domestic demand for forged steel 
grinding media. 
 
Customers have told the ACCC that Moly-Cop and Donhad compete closely in 
55.
terms of price, quality of product and service. There is evidence suggesting that 
customers switch between the two suppliers, and that a number of customers 
have either switched or threatened to switch between the merger parties to 
create competitive tension in their tender processes and/or negotiations with 
either of the parties. Including both companies in a tender process is said to 
create competitive tension that does not exist to the same extent from overseas 
manufacturers. 
 
In light of the current market shares of the merger parties, their status as the only 
56.
two domestic suppliers of steel grinding media, and the degree of competition 
that customers describe as existing between the merger parties, the ACCC is 
concerned that the proposed acquisition may substantially lessen competition in 
the supply of steel grinding media. 
 
However, there are multiple overseas manufacturers supplying steel grinding 
57.
media into Australia, and collectively they are a significant and growing presence 
in the market. The key question for the ACCC’s review is the extent to which 
imported steel grinding media would constrain the merged entity. 
Imports 
Overview of global grinding media industry 
 
As described earlier in the paper, there are a number of manufacturers of steel 
58.
grinding media based overseas. These include international forged steel grinding 
media suppliers, such as ME Elecmetal, Long Teng, and various other Chinese 
manufacturers. In addition, Sigdo Koppers S.A (Magotteaux), Vega and Metso 
supply high chrome grinding media internationally. 
 
While Moly-Cop is the world’s largest supplier of grinding media, Donhad has no 
59.
manufacturing facilities outside of Australia, and has limited presence on the 
global market. 
 
Further, the ACCC understands that the global steel grinding media 
60.
manufacturing industry is operating at approximately 50 per cent capacity 
utilisation – with the spare capacity being many multiples of the size of total 
Australian demand. 
Extent of current imports 
 
In the 2016-17 financial year, total imports represented: 
61.
 
25-35 per cent of the total quantity of forged steel grinding media sold in 
Australia, and 


Moly-Cop – proposed acquisition of Donhad 
 
Page 11 of 15 
 
35-45 per cent of the total quantity of steel grinding media (including both 
forged steel and high chrome grinding media) sold in Australia. 
 
These figures represent significant growth that has occurred in the quantity of 
62.
imported steel grinding media in recent years. 
 
On their face, these figures suggest that imports already occupy a significant 
63.
position in the market, and that they would be expected to continue to do so 
following the proposed acquisition. 
 
While the level of imports is important, the ACCC is exploring whether they are 
64.
necessarily representative of the extent of competition they would impose on the 
merged firm. The ACCC is investigating three issues in this regard. 
 
First, if the volumes of imported forged steel grinding media are primarily the 
65.
result of contracts won by a single overseas manufacturer – ME Elecmetal – it 
raises the question of how many overseas manufacturers are strong competitors 
in Australia. The ACCC understands that ME Elecmetal is the third largest 
supplier of steel grinding media in Australia. As shown in Table 1 above, it is 
subject to an anti-dumping tariff of 3 per cent. However, other suppliers with 
manufacturing facilities in China (except for Long Teng) face anti-dumping tariffs 
in excess of 20 per cent. This may influence the competitiveness of these 
suppliers, relative to ME Elecmetal and the merger parties. 
 
As such, it may be the case that despite the current total level of imports, and the 
66.
number of international manufacturers of steel grinding media, the proposed 
acquisition in fact represents a reduction in the number of strong competitors for 
Australian customers from three (Moly-Cop, Donhad and ME Elecmetal) to two. 
If this is the case, the ACCC may still hold significant concerns with the proposed 
acquisition, despite the combined level of imported product. 
 
Second, the ACCC is still considering whether the import volumes are driven by 
67.
a small number of high volume contracts. That is, the ACCC is exploring whether 
imports are competitive for all customers, or only a subset of customers such as 
high-volume customers. 
 
Third, and in distinction to the first two factors, the constraint exerted by imports 
68.
may be even greater than suggested by the total quantity of imports if the prices 
for all grinding media supplied by the merger parties are primarily determined by 
reference to competition from imports (rather than by competition between each 
other). 
Market feedback on imports 
 
A significant number of steel grinding media customers raised concerns with the 
69.
proposed acquisition during market inquiries. Customers told the ACCC that 
imports may not compete strongly with the merged entity. 
 
The factors identified during market inquiries as limiting the degree of constraint 
70.
imposed by imports are outlined below.  
 
A key issue for the ACCC in the remainder of its review of the proposed 
71.
acquisition will be to consider and attempt to reconcile the apparent tension 
between market feedback suggesting limits to the competitive constraint 
imposed by imports and the aggregate import figures discussed above which 


Moly-Cop – proposed acquisition of Donhad 
 
Page 12 of 15 
suggest that significant quantities of steel grinding media are already being 
imported. 
Price / value in use 
 
The ACCC has received mixed feedback about the extent to which imported 
72.
grinding media are price competitive with domestic grinding media. A number of 
market participants have told the ACCC that the landed price of imports 
(including all applicable duties) is typically not price competitive compared to 
grinding media produced by the merger parties. For example, one market 
participant stated that there was a price difference of at least 8% between 
grinding media produced by the merger parties and imported goods for like 
products. Some other market participants have noted that the applicable anti-
dumping duties make imports of steel grinding media from some Chinese 
manufacturers cost prohibitive. However, other information obtained by the 
ACCC suggests that imported goods can be supplied at similar or lower prices 
than domestically manufactured products.  
 
The ACCC is further analysing this information and would welcome any views 
73.
from market participants on pricing of imports relative to domestic forged 
grinding media, including the effect of the anti-dumping tariffs on customers’ 
purchases of imported grinding media, relative to domestically manufactured 
grinding media. 
 
High chrome grinding media are generally more expensive on a per-unit basis 
74.
than forged steel grinding media, although the ACCC has received mixed 
feedback about the extent of the price differential. However, in appropriate 
applications, the additional wear-resistance of high chrome grinding media may 
mean that the total effective cost of using high chrome grinding media is lower 
than forged steel grinding media. 
Quality of product 
 
Customers consider the quality of the steel grinding media to be a key aspect 
75.
when choosing their suppliers, because of its impact on a mine’s total mineral 
recovery, its throughput and efficiency of the grinding process. Some market 
participants have indicated that the quality of imported steel grinding media may 
not be of the same standard as that supplied by the parties. 
 
However, it is difficult to obtain clear information on this. While some market 
76.
participants have maintained that there is a quality differential, others have 
suggested that the differences may be predominantly based on perceptions, 
which may be changing. Also, product quality may differ between importers. For 
example, ME Elecmetal has been identified by some customers as supplying a 
higher quality product than other importers. Market feedback also suggests that 
where a customer has some experience with an overseas supplier (e.g. from 
operating a mine overseas or purchasing another product from the supplier, such 
as mill liners), the customer may be more inclined to consider switching to that 
supplier, subject to the other factors considered. 
 
Customers can and do attempt to evaluate the quality of steel grinding media 
77.
supplied by other parties by trialling a new supplier’s product before signing a 
formal supply agreement. However, trials are not costless. The ACCC 
understands that trials can sometimes take upwards of six months to complete, 
and that to ensure the integrity of a test, customers will exclusively use the 


Moly-Cop – proposed acquisition of Donhad 
 
Page 13 of 15 
trialled grinding media in the relevant mill. Trialling a new product therefore 
involves the opportunity cost of not using previously tried and tested grinding 
media in a mill during the trial period. 
 
In addition, customers also describe mining as a risk-averse industry in which a 
78.
supplier’s reputation is highly important. The risk of failure, and associated costs 
of failure of steel grinding media provide incumbent suppliers with significant 
competitive advantages. The two merger parties are the largest suppliers of steel 
grinding media in Australia and therefore enjoy significant incumbency 
advantages. 
Security of supply 
 
Security of supply is also a primary consideration for customers of grinding 
79.
media. Grinding media must be continuously fed into mills, and thus is a critical 
component in a mine’s operations. Customers consider factors including 
suppliers’ lead times, distribution networks, warehousing and transport 
arrangements in assessing a suppliers’ security of supply. 
 
A number of customers have told the ACCC that security of supply is a critical 
80.
factor weighing against importers of steel grinding media. The merger parties are 
considered to have a supply lead time of 1-2 weeks, while it can take months to 
obtain supply from importers. 
 
However, suppliers of imported product can overcome their lead time 
81.
disadvantage, to an extent, by establishing local warehouses to stockpile 
inventory and local distribution networks to support those warehouses. The 
ACCC understands that some importers have already done so as a result of, or 
prior to winning contracts from local customers. Further, the ACCC has been told 
by some market participants that the costs of establishing a warehouse are 
minimal, and that warehouse and distribution services can be procured from 
logistics firms such as Toll Logistics. 
 
On the other hand, some market participants have indicated that suppliers are 
82.
reluctant to establish such facilities and networks until it has a contract in place 
with a customer (thereby justifying these sunk costs) and conversely, customers 
are reluctant to switch their grinding media purchases to a new supplier until 
such facilities are in place. The ACCC continues to consider this issue. 
Service and technical support 
 
The technical support and service offered by suppliers is also an important 
83.
consideration for customers. Grinding media are a key input to the mining 
process and if there are problems or difficulties, customers want to be able to 
access that support quickly. A supplier’s technical support and service offering 
may include on-site visits, access to metallurgical and technical personnel, use 
of software and access to laboratory testing. Some customers have highlighted 
the lack of customer support provided by overseas suppliers. 
Threat of anti-dumping duties 
 
As noted above, anti-dumping duties may affect the price competitiveness of 
84.
imported grinding media. Market feedback also suggests that the threat of anti-
dumping applications, or the threat of changes to applicable duties, may 
influence customers’ tender processes by creating uncertainty. It may also affect 


Moly-Cop – proposed acquisition of Donhad 
 
Page 14 of 15 
suppliers’ plans to expand their operations (for example, by establishing 
distribution centres) in Australia if they think that they will be subject to higher 
duties in the future. The ACCC would welcome further feedback on this point. 
Barriers to entry or expansion by existing importers 
 
There are a number of international suppliers of steel grinding media that 
85.
currently have limited or no presence in Australia despite having significant 
manufacturing capacity overseas. 
 
For the most part, the ACCC considers that there are few economic or legal 
86.
barriers preventing them from expanding into Australia, or expanding their 
current limited presence in Australia. However, suppliers of forged steel grinding 
media manufactured in China would still be subject to the applicable import 
duties, and all importers are still subject to the other factors identified above that 
market participants have suggested limit the competitiveness of imported 
grinding media. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on this issue. In particular 
market participants may wish to comment on the following:  
Customers 
 
a) If you have purchased or currently purchase forged steel grinding media from 
overseas suppliers:  
 
i. 
who did you previously purchase forged steel grinding media from and why 
did you switch suppliers?  
ii. 
how did you establish a relationship with that supplier? 
iii. 
what factors did you consider in selecting your supplier?  
iv. 
how would you describe your experience, in terms of price, quality and 
consistency of supply, lead times and service levels?  
 
b) Do you think overseas suppliers would be able to competitively constrain the 
merger parties post-acquisition? If the merged entity increased its prices or 
lowered the quality of its products or services, to what extent would you be able 
to switch to imports? 
c) What are the costs and time involved in trialling a new supplier of grinding 
media? 
 
Suppliers of grinding media 
 
a) Do you have any plans to enter or expand your operations in Australia? If so:  
 
i. 
what are the costs of entering or expanding your operations in Australia? 
 
ii. 
what barriers would you face in doing so? 
 
b) To what extent would the proposed merger affect barriers to entry and 
expansion? 


Moly-Cop – proposed acquisition of Donhad 
 
Page 15 of 15 
Barriers to establishing new domestic manufacture of grinding media  
 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that barriers to entry into the manufacture of 
87.
steel grinding media in Australia are likely high due to the high and sunk capital 
costs associated with establishing manufacturing facilities in Australia. A new 
entrant, which could include a current importer, would likely need to enter on a 
large scale to achieve economies of scale, and compete with the merger parties, 
who have significant manufacturing capacity. 
 
The ACCC is not aware of any examples of companies commencing 
88.
manufacture of steel grinding media in Australia in recent times. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary views about 
barriers to establishing new domestic manufacture of grinding media, particularly for a 
current importer with established manufacturing facilities overseas, and the effect, if 
any, of the proposed acquisition on these barriers. 
ACCC's future steps 
 
As noted above, the ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on 
89.
each of the issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue 
that may be relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. Submissions are 
to be received by the ACCC no later than 21 December 2017 and should be 
emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au. 
 
The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions 
90.
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
 
The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 1 March 2018. However 
91.
the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Informal Merger Review 
Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose of 
explaining the ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's public 
announcement to explain its final view. 
