 
1 
 
 
Statement of Issues 
16 October 2014 
CSR Ltd and Boral Ltd - proposed clay brick joint venture 
 
Introduction 
 
1. 
Outlined below is the Statement of Issues released by the Australian Competition and 
Consumer Commission (ACCC) on the proposed joint venture for supply of clay bricks 
between CSR Limited (CSR) and Boral Limited (Boral) (the proposed joint venture). 
 
2. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a proposed 
transaction, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing attention to particular 
issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well as identifying the lines of 
further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
 
3. 
Consistent with the ACCC’s Merger Review Process Guidelines (at 
www.accc.gov.au/processguidelines) the ACCC has established a secondary timeline 
for further consideration of the issues. The ACCC anticipates completing further 
market inquiries by 6 November 2014 and anticipates making a final decision on  
18 December 2014. However, the anticipated timeline can change in line with the 
Merger Review Process Guidelines. To keep abreast of possible changes in relation to 
timing and to find relevant documents, market participants should visit the Mergers 
Register on the ACCC’s website at www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
 
4. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors and other stakeholders) to ascertain and consider the primary 
issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide interested parties with the 
basis for making further submissions should they consider it necessary. 
 
The parties 
 
CSR 
 
5. 
CSR supplies various building products including plasterboard, fibre cement, 
insulation, processed glass, Hebel1 and roof tiles. 
 
6. 
CSR supplies clay bricks under the PGH brand and manufactures at Horsley Park, 
Schofields and Cecil Park in NSW, Oxley in Queensland, and Golden Grove in South 
Australia. CSR also has ‘mothballed’ clay brick manufacturing capacity at Cecil Park in 
Sydney and at Bathurst in western NSW. 
                                                     
1 Hebel is CSR’s autoclaved aerated concrete product. 


 
2 
 
 
Boral 
 
7. 
Boral supplies building products and construction materials including plasterboard, 
fibre cement, insulation, concrete products, timber products and roof tiles.  
 
8. 
Boral supplies clay bricks to the relevant Australian states under the Boral Bricks 
brand and manufactures clay bricks at Bringelly and Albury in NSW, Darra in 
Queensland, Thomastown and Scoresby in Victoria. Boral also has mothballed clay 
brick manufacturing capacity at Badgerys Creek in NSW.  
 
Other key industry participants 
  
Austral Bricks 
 
9. 
Austral Bricks is a subsidiary of Brickworks Limited. Relevantly, Austral Bricks supplies 
clay bricks which it manufactures at Horsley Park, Punchbowl and Bowral in NSW, 
Rochedale in Queensland, Wollert in Victoria, and Golden Grove in South Australia. 
Austral Bricks also has mothballed clay brick manufacturing capacity at Horsley Park 
in NSW, Rochedale in Queensland, and Golden Grove in South Australia. 
 
Industry background 
 
10. 
Clay bricks may be classified as: 
 
 
face bricks – which are typically used on the exterior of a building and are 
manufactured in different colours and with different textures for aesthetic appeal; 
 
 
common bricks – or ‘commons’, which are typically used where they will not be 
seen, particularly in foundations or for rendered facades, since they do not have 
a particular aesthetic appeal or surface treatment; and 
 
 
pavers – which are typically used to form an even surface for foot traffic. They 
are manufactured in a variety of colours and textures. 
 
11. 
The clay brick production process commences with the mining and collection of clay. 
This clay is then mixed with water and dried before firing. Bricks are required to be 
‘fired’ in kilns for between 10 to 40 hours depending on the kiln, type of brick to be 
produced and its appearance. Face bricks, common bricks and pavers are produced 
using very similar manufacturing processes, with minor variations to achieve different 
aesthetic qualities in relation to face bricks and pavers. 
 
12. 
The vast majority of brick sales are either face or common bricks. Pavers account for 
approximately 1% of the joint venture parties’ clay brick sales overall, and are not 
therefore a focus of the ACCC’s review of the proposed joint venture and are not 
further discussed in this Statement of Issues. 
 
13. 
Clay brick supply is principally directed at residential construction, whereas 
commercial construction principally uses other materials, as does high-rise residential 
construction. The ACCC’s review is therefore focussed on the likely competition effects 
of the proposed joint venture in relation to low and medium-density residential 
construction. 


 
3 
 
 
The ACCC’s market inquiries 
 
14. 
The ACCC has received written submissions from and/or spoken with a range of 
interested parties including builders, relevant industry associations, brick 
manufacturers, and suppliers of other forms of external cladding. The ACCC has 
provided market inquiry feedback to the joint venture parties and taken their responses 
into account in reaching the preliminary views identified in this Statement of Issues. 
The ACCC’s investigations are continuing. 
 
The transaction 
 
15. 
CSR and Boral propose to form a joint venture to combine their clay brick businesses 
located on the east coast of Australia including their operations in New South 
Wales/ACT, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia and Tasmania. Boral’s clay brick 
operations in Western Australia would not form part of the proposed joint venture. The 
joint venture entity would be 60% owned by CSR and 40% owned by Boral. 
 
16. 
The proposed joint venture would comprise the manufacture, marketing and supply of 
clay bricks, as well as associated clay sourcing activities. Under the proposed joint 
venture, CSR and Boral would no longer offer separate clay brick product ranges or 
compete on price or other terms of supply to customers in eastern Australia2. 
 
Future with and without the proposed joint venture  
 
17. 
Section 50 of the Act prohibits certain transactions that would be likely to have the 
effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. In assessing the likely 
competition effects of the proposed joint venture pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the 
ACCC will compare the likely future competitive environment if the proposed joint 
venture proceeds (the “with” position) to the likely future competitive environment if the 
proposed joint venture does not proceed (the “without” position, or “counterfactual”). 
 
18. 
Currently, Boral and CSR both manufacture and supply clay bricks in NSW and 
Queensland. Boral and CSR both currently also compete to supply bricks to customers 
in South Australia and Victoria, with Boral supplying South Australia and CSR 
supplying Victoria from interstate manufacturing operations. Boral also currently 
supplies bricks to Tasmania from its mainland operations.  
 
19. 
The ACCC is considering whether or not the future competitive environment without 
the proposed joint venture should be treated as being similar to the current competitive 
environment. Relevantly, Boral and CSR have stated publicly that lower brick demand 
has resulted in reduced profitability, plant curtailments and closures, and that the 
proposed joint venture would enable them to achieve returns that recover the cost of 
capital through building cycles. Also, it was recently reported that Boral would close 
brick assets to realise land values if consolidation of clay brick suppliers does not 
occur.  
                                                     
2 The joint venture parties also each supply building products such as plasterboard, insulation solutions and roof tiles, however 
these other building products are not part of the proposed joint venture. 


 
4 
 
 
20. 
In assessing this counterfactual issue, the ACCC has considered confidential 
submissions by each of the joint venture parties and has also reviewed certain internal 
company documents. The ACCC has separately written to each of the joint venture 
parties to detail the ACCC’s preliminary view regarding the counterfactual in light of the 
ACCC’s review of their submissions and internal documents. 
 
21. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the appropriate counterfactual by which to assess 
the proposed joint venture involves three major brick suppliers - CSR, Boral and 
Austral Bricks - competing independently to supply customers in markets in eastern 
Australia. In other words, the ACCC, at this stage, intends to assess the likely 
competition effects of the proposed joint venture against the current market structures. 
 
 
The ACCC is seeking further information from interested parties regarding this 
counterfactual issue and, in particular: 
 
a. 
the extent to which further rationalisation of capacity is required in order to better 
match industry capacity to expected future demand, and the feasibility of 
alternative means to achieve this outcome (other than the proposed joint 
venture), as further addressed below; 
 
b. 
the opportunities for the joint venture parties, independently, to further 
restructure their operations, such as by improving plant utilisation, having regard 
to current production configuration and the costs involved in changing these 
configurations, as well as opportunities to sell or redevelop parts of existing 
manufacturing sites; and 
 
c. 
the opportunities for the joint venture parties to instead enter additional toll 
manufacturing arrangements with each other and/or with other manufacturers in 
order to reduce costs. 
 
 
Relevant markets 
 
22. 
As discussed below, the ACCC at this stage considers that the relevant markets in 
which to assess the proposed joint venture are the markets for supply of clay bricks in 
each of NSW (including ACT), Queensland, Victoria, South Australia and Tasmania. 
 
Product dimension 
 
23. 
The joint venture parties submitted to the ACCC that the relevant product market is the 
manufacture and supply of external cladding products, on the basis that there are a 
range of materials which are technical and functional substitutes for clay bricks. The 
ACCC’s preliminary review does not generally support this submission, as discussed 
below. The ACCC is also considering whether there are separate markets for face 
bricks and common bricks, as discussed below. 


 
5 
 
 
Other external cladding products 
 
24. 
The ACCC’s main focus in relation to defining the boundaries of the relevant product 
market is the extent to which other external cladding products are substitutes for clay 
bricks on the demand side. This will depend on the extent to which customers, 
particularly residential home builders which account for most clay brick demand, would 
be likely to switch to other external cladding products in response to a small but 
significant and non-transitory increase in the price (SSNIP) of clay bricks – in the order 
of 5 - 10%. If the extent of switching by customers is not sufficient to make such a 
price increase unprofitable for clay brick suppliers, then other external cladding 
products are unlikely to be close substitutes to clay bricks and would not be included in 
the relevant market. 
 
25. 
Other than clay bricks, cladding materials which are available for use in the 
construction of external walls include: 
 
 
fibre cement panels or board; 
 
 
autoclaved aerated concrete (AAC) products, often referred to as ‘Hebel’ (Hebel 
is CSR’s AAC brand); 
 
 
concrete masonry blocks and bricks; 
 
 
concrete wall panels (including precast wall panels and tilt-up wall panels); 
 
 
structural insulated panel systems; and 
 
 
alternative non-load bearing facades. 
 
26. 
The ACCC understands that there has been a structural shift over the past few 
decades in the mix of residential construction in Australia, from single detached 
residential dwellings towards multi-residential attached dwellings. As a result of these 
structural changes there has been an increase in the usage of alternative forms of 
external cladding and a reduction in the overall demand for clay bricks.  
 
27. 
Market feedback suggests that the increased uptake in other forms of cladding 
appears to be mainly in relation to multi-residential and commercial construction, and 
in the second storey of two storey residential dwellings. Builders involved in 
commercial construction and high-rise residential construction typically use different 
forms of cladding materials from those used by builders of low and medium density 
dwellings, especially detached homes. In commercial and high density residential 
construction, clay bricks are used to a much lesser extent and materials such as 
concrete wall panels and structural insulated panel systems are used in significant 
quantities.  
 
28. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that other external cladding materials are not close 
substitutes for clay bricks in the construction of residential detached dwellings. Market 
feedback suggests that the underlying demand for clay bricks for use in construction of 
detached residential dwellings remains strong. Residential builders account for most 
clay brick demand and market feedback suggests that it is consumers building 
detached homes that are most likely to be affected by the proposed joint venture.  


 
6 
 
 
29. 
Clay bricks have been, and remain, the main type of external cladding used by 
residential builders in the construction of a very large proportion of single and double 
storey detached dwellings, despite the changes that are evident in other residential 
and commercial construction segments. Market feedback to the ACCC suggests that, 
for many residential builders, clay bricks comprise approximately 80-90% of external 
cladding materials used. 
 
30. 
Residential builders consider a range of factors when selecting cladding materials 
such as durability, cost effectiveness, availability of labour and materials, insulation 
properties and maintenance requirements. The ACCC understands that each type of 
external cladding material, including clay bricks, is differentiated to varying degrees on 
the basis of these factors.  
 
31. 
From a technical point of view, each of the external cladding materials could be used 
for the construction of an external wall. However, the views and preferences of their 
customers (home buyers) are also one of the most significant factors taken into 
account by builders for the selection of external cladding materials. 
 
32. 
The high proportion of clay brick utilised in construction of residential dwellings, 
especially detached homes, in eastern Australia appears to reflect the current views 
and perceptions of both builders and end-consumers that clay brick has desirable 
characteristics that distinguish it clearly from other external cladding products. These 
perceived characteristics include that clay brick: 
 
 
has a proven track record of reliability and durability; 
 
 
is the most cost effective cladding choice; 
 
 
is maintenance free (or at least very low maintenance); 
 
 
has good thermal and insulation qualities; and 
 
 
is the most practical form of external cladding taking into account the familiar and 
accepted construction techniques and expertise. 
 
33. 
Marketing by clay brick suppliers seeks to reinforce these perceptions by emphasising 
the historic use, proven record and ongoing trusted nature of clay brick usage.3 Clay 
brick suppliers also emphasise the key benefits of clay brick such as low maintenance, 
energy efficiency, cost and durability.    
 
34. 
The ACCC notes that manufacturers of alternative forms of external cladding seek to 
market their products as strong alternatives to clay bricks. Marketing materials 
associated with Hebel4 and James Hardie5 seek to address customers’ perceptions 
and suggest that these products perform as well as clay brick (if not better) on key 
metrics such as insulation, energy efficiency, sound proofing, fire resistance, ease of 
installation and cost.  
                                                     
3 http://australbricks.com.au/vic/sustainability/build-a-home-you-can-live-in-happily-ever-after,-w/  
4 http://www.hebelaustralia.com.au/Pages/About/Hebel-Benefits.aspx  
5 http://www.jameshardie.com.au/page/fibre-cement/  


 
7 
 
 
35. 
However, market feedback from residential builders indicates that many end-
consumers, especially those building detached homes, do not perceive some of the 
characteristics of other external cladding products to be as desirable as clay bricks. In 
particular: 
 
 
fibre cement products are perceived as having longer term maintenance issues 
and are often regarded as a “cheap alternative”; 
 
 
Hebel (AAC) products are not yet proven as being a reliable cladding choice and 
are perceived as having potential ongoing quality issues such as insufficient 
durability and strength; and 
 
 
concrete bricks can be problematic given that they shrink and expand when 
temperatures changes, and architectural concrete bricks are prone to 
discolouration. 
 
36. 
Market feedback suggests that fibre cement products and AAC are generally used by 
residential builders where a rendered finish is to be applied to the dwelling. They are 
also often used: 
 
 
in conjunction with clay brick, to vary the appearance of a home, for example by 
adding a feature piece to the external façade of a home; 
 
 
in the construction of the second storey of a two storey home; and 
 
 
for unique home projects or for particular situations such as building on slopes. 
 
37. 
Residential builders appear to use concrete blocks and bricks to varying degrees. 
Concrete blocks or common bricks can be used where a rendered finish is to be 
applied, or concrete architectural bricks can be used for an external finish or as a 
feature piece. However, market feedback has indicated that concrete masonry 
products are not used to a great extent in detached residential construction. 
 
38. 
To the extent that residential builders are using alternative forms of external cladding, 
it does not appear to represent switching by builders in response to a 5 – 10% price 
increase for clay bricks. Market feedback obtained by the ACCC indicates that the 
frequent and not insignificant price rises by the major clay brick suppliers, examples of 
which are described later in this Statement of Issues, have not resulted in customers 
switching to other forms of external cladding. Instead, the higher prices have either 
been absorbed by the residential builder or passed onto prospective home owners.  
 
39. 
Also, clay bricks are estimated to comprise approximately 1 - 3%6 of the construction 
price of an average (detached) dwelling. In this context, prospective home owners 
appear unlikely to change their choice of external cladding in response to even a 
relatively significant change in the price of clay bricks.  
                                                     
6 This estimate excludes labour. The labour to physically lay bricks represents approximately two-thirds of the installed cost of 
bricks – that is, the labour input is approximately twice the cost of the bricks. 


 
8 
 
 
40. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the clear and strong preferences held by many 
customers for the use of clay bricks in the construction of many residential dwellings 
means it is unlikely that other external cladding products are close substitutes for clay 
bricks. To further understand the level of potential substitution between clay brick and 
other forms of external cladding, the ACCC is seeking further information about 
customers’ purchasing behaviours in response to historical clay brick price increases 
by the joint venture parties and Austral Bricks (as identified below).  
 
Face and common bricks 
 
41. 
The ACCC understands that there is a spectrum of brick types used in construction of 
walls, ranging from common bricks (or ‘commons’) through to premium face bricks. 
The joint venture parties, as well as Austral Bricks, supply both face and common 
bricks. 
 
42. 
Face and common bricks are technical substitutes in the sense that an external wall 
can be constructed using either type of clay brick. However, for aesthetic reasons, 
common bricks are very unlikely to be considered a substitute for face bricks by home 
builders and end-consumers. Also, face bricks are unlikely to be used by residential 
builders where a rendered finish is to be applied to the external cladding given the 
lower cost of common bricks (although on limited occasions low-end face bricks are 
used for this purpose).  
 
43. 
On the supply side, the ACCC understands that common bricks are often produced at 
manufacturing plants where low-end face bricks are also produced, although face 
bricks generally move through the kiln at a slower pace. This may indicate a degree of 
supply side substitutability between manufacture of face and common bricks. 
 
44. 
Additional costs would be incurred in switching a common brick manufacturing plant to 
the production of face bricks because this may require additional equipment and inputs 
(including equipment to enable the addition of other raw material to face bricks and, to 
undertake forming and texturing, specialised dryers and kilns). The costs of switching 
supply vary in accordance with the type of face brick to be produced. The ACCC 
understands that costs may be approximately $8 to 17 million to upgrade a 
manufacturing plant that only produces commons to enable production of face bricks. 
 
45. 
For the purposes of this Statement of Issues, the ACCC considers the likely 
competition effects of the proposed joint venture on the basis of a market for supply of 
clay bricks, encompassing both face and common bricks. However, the ACCC’s 
review will take account of any particular effects on competition within segments of this 
market, such as for supply of face bricks (which account for the majority of the market 
based on volume and value). 
 
Geographic dimension 
 
46. 
The ACCC at this stage considers that there are state-based markets for the 
manufacture and supply of clay bricks. The ACCC has also observed that the major 
clay brick suppliers contract with customers on a state basis, clay brick prices vary 
somewhat depending on the state, and price increases are implemented on a state-by-
state basis. Also, transport costs for clay bricks can be high relative to the total value 
of the product meaning that most clay brick demand is supplied by plants located in 
the same state as that customer demand arises.  


 
9 
 
 
47. 
However, the ACCC noted that major clay brick suppliers do supply some clay bricks 
interstate. For example, Boral supplies clay bricks in South Australia from interstate 
plants, and CSR supplies clay bricks in Victoria from interstate plants. Also, Boral and 
CSR structure their clay brick operations as east coast businesses rather than state-
based businesses. The ACCC will therefore be considering whether the likely 
competition effects of the proposed joint venture should be considered on a wider 
geographic basis. 
 
Preliminary conclusion - relevant markets 
 
48. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view for the purpose of this Statement of Issues is that the 
relevant markets in which to assess the proposed joint venture are the markets for the 
supply of clay bricks in each of NSW (including ACT), Queensland, Victoria, South 
Australia and Tasmania. The focus of the ACCC’s competition assessment, as 
detailed below, is on clay bricks supplied for low and medium density residential 
construction, especially detached homes. 
 
 
The ACCC invites further views and information from interested parties regarding the 
product and geographic dimensions of the market/s and the specific factors identified 
above, including the extent to which customers of clay bricks, in response to clay brick 
price increases, have switched to alternative forms of external cladding. In particular, 
the ACCC is seeking further information from interested parties regarding the following 
specific matters: 
 
a. 
the impact of the significant clay brick price increases in Queensland in late 2011 
and early 2012 and the extent to which these price increases caused clay brick 
customers to switch to other external cladding products. To this end, the ACCC 
is seeking information about changes in demand and prices in Queensland over 
the last 3 years for AAC, fibre cement and concrete masonry products; 
 
b. 
the extent to which the potential competitive constraint from other external 
cladding products may differ between common bricks and face bricks; 
 
c. 
the nature and level of costs involved in switching some manufacturing capacity 
from production of common bricks to production of face bricks; and 
 
d. 
the extent to which clay bricks are supplied on an interstate basis and the 
circumstances in which such interstate supply arises. 
 
 
Statement of issues 
 
49. 
For the purposes of this Statement of Issues, the issues arising from the proposed joint 
venture have been categorised as ‘issues of concern’, 'issues that may raise concerns' 
and ‘issues unlikely to raise competition concerns’. These issues are addressed below. 
 
Issues of concern – supply of clay bricks in NSW and Queensland 
 
50. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed joint venture is likely to substantially 
lessen competition in the NSW and Queensland markets for the supply of clay bricks. 
The following section describes the ACCC’s preliminary concerns in this regard and 
provides details of further information that is being sought from interested parties. 


 
10 
 
 
51. 
The proposed joint venture would reduce the number of major suppliers of clay bricks 
in the NSW and Queensland markets from three to two. No other clay brick suppliers 
in eastern Australia operate on the same scale or have comparable product ranges 
and distribution as the major suppliers, Boral, CSR and Austral Bricks. 
 
52. 
Many residential builders in NSW and Queensland have expressed concerns to the 
ACCC that this reduction from three to two major clay brick suppliers would result in 
increased prices for clay bricks. Higher prices for clay bricks would increase costs for 
end-consumers seeking to build new homes. For example, a new two-storey home 
built with 14,000 bricks would cost approximately $1,200 extra as a result of a 10% 
increase in clay brick prices (depending on the bricks used).  
 
53. 
As discussed below, the ACCC’s review to date suggests that the joint venture entity 
would not be constrained by a credible threat of new entry or expansion by a rival 
supplier of clay bricks, or by any countervailing power of customers. Thus, a key issue 
for this review is whether Austral Bricks would have the ability and incentive to 
constrain an attempted exercise of unilateral market power by the joint venture entity.   
 
54. 
Also discussed below is the fact that the proposed joint venture would effectively 
create a duopoly in the supply of clay bricks in NSW and Queensland. A key issue in 
this regard is whether the proposed joint venture would result in a material reduction in 
competitive tension between major clay brick suppliers and the extent to which the 
proposed joint venture would make tacit coordination more likely, more complete and 
more sustainable.   
 
Unilateral effects 
 
55. 
Currently, Boral and CSR have extensive product ranges, high-volume production 
capabilities, and wide geographic distribution in the NSW and Queensland clay brick 
markets. Many residential builders consider Boral and CSR to be close competitors in 
these respects.   
 
56. 
The proposed joint venture would remove this competition and increase concentration 
for the supply of clay bricks in NSW and Queensland. The joint venture entity would 
account for over 50% of sales of clay bricks in NSW. In Queensland the proposed joint 
venture would combine the largest and second-largest suppliers of clay bricks, with the 
joint venture entity accounting for approximately 75% of sales in Queensland.  
 
57. 
The removal of this close competition and this significant change in market structures 
raises the concern that the joint venture entity would have the ability to unilaterally 
exercise market power, such as to increase prices for clay bricks. Also, the proposed 
joint venture would likely result in reduced choice between brick product ranges, in 
terms of the variety of colours and other aesthetic characteristics offered for 
construction of new homes. This reduction in choice and variety would be to the 
detriment of builders, architects/designers and end-consumers. 
 
58. 
As noted above, the joint venture entity would be one of only two major suppliers of 
clay bricks in NSW and Queensland. The remaining major alternative supplier, Austral 
Bricks has some spare operational capacity (in addition to mothballed capacity) in 
NSW and Queensland.   


 
11 
 
 
59. 
The ACCC is considering the extent to which this spare capacity could be used to 
constrain the exercise of unilateral market power by the joint venture entity having 
regard to the types of brick products manufactured at these plants and the extent to 
which the production mix could be altered. The ACCC is also continuing to consider 
the extent to which Austral’s significant mothballed production capacity in NSW and 
Queensland could be used to constrain the exercise of unilateral market power by the 
joint venture entity.  
 
60. 
Smaller clay brick suppliers in NSW and Queensland are unlikely to have the ability 
and/or incentive to respond competitively to any exercise of unilateral market power by 
the joint venture entity. In particular, the ACCC considers that small suppliers, such as 
Namoi Valley Bricks in NSW and Claypave in Queensland, generally operate in niche 
segments of the relevant markets. Also, there are significant barriers to entry and 
expansion that would restrict the ability of actual and potential suppliers of clay bricks 
to competitively constrain the joint venture entity. These factors are discussed further 
below. 
 
Likelihood of entry or expansion by other clay brick suppliers 
 
61. 
The joint venture parties submitted that BGC (owner of Brikmakers), which 
commenced manufacturing bricks in Western Australia in 2009, is a good example of 
the potential for new entry into the industry when conditions are right. Also, BGC has 
recently announced plans to create a new Melbourne home-building business in joint 
venture with Metricon. The joint venture parties submitted to the ACCC that, if BGC’s 
operations attained the necessary scale in eastern Australia, it would be possible that 
it could, or could threaten to, vertically integrate into clay brick manufacturing, as it did 
in Western Australia. 
 
62. 
However, the ACCC considers that new entry to the NSW or Queensland markets is 
highly unlikely. The capital costs associated with land and equipment are substantial, 
and entry on a significant scale (in terms of product range and volume) would be 
necessary to compete effectively with the joint venture entity and Austral Bricks. BGC’s 
entry to brick manufacturing in Western Australia required capital expenditure of over 
$100 million. Furthermore, there are environmental compliance issues, and a new 
entrant may face difficulty in obtaining access to the clay inputs necessary to 
manufacture an adequate range of bricks.  
 
63. 
In addition, the excess manufacturing capacity of the remaining two major suppliers 
may represent a strategic barrier to entry and/or expansion by rival suppliers. 
Moreover, market participants informed the ACCC that establishing a new metropolitan 
plant in eastern Australia is not realistic anymore for any new or existing Australian 
clay brick manufacturer. 
 
64. 
The joint venture parties also submitted to the ACCC that other clay brick suppliers in 
NSW and Queensland, as well as Selkirk in Victoria, would provide effective 
competitive constraints on the joint venture entity’s supply of clay bricks in NSW and 
Queensland. However, the ACCC’s review to date does not support these 
submissions.  


 
12 
 
 
65. 
In the ACCC’s market inquiries residential builders generally identified that price is a 
key factor in their choice of supplier/s. Many of these customers in NSW and 
Queensland identified that Boral, CSR and Austral Bricks have implemented significant 
price increases over the last 5 years. However, for the reasons discussed below, 
customers have generally accepted these price increases, rather than obtaining or 
seeking to obtain supply from interstate clay brick manufacturers or from niche clay 
brick manufacturers (or from suppliers of other forms of external cladding). 
 
66. 
The ACCC therefore considers that neither independent interstate manufacturers, nor 
local ‘niche’ manufacturers, would be able to expand to supply the required volumes or 
product range in order to competitively constrain the proposed joint venture in either 
NSW or Queensland. This is discussed further below. 
 
Interstate manufacturers 
 
67. 
The ACCC’s market inquiries identified that residential builders in NSW and 
Queensland do not generally regard interstate manufacturers such as Selkirk (Victoria) 
and BGC (Western Australia) as potential alternative sources of regular clay brick 
supply. 
 
68. 
The ACCC did not identify any significant instances of supply in NSW or Queensland 
by interstate manufacturers of clay bricks. More specifically, the ACCC’s market 
inquiries suggest that BGC and Selkirk do not presently supply customers in NSW and 
Queensland (with the exception of some limited supply by Selkirk). Customers in NSW 
and Queensland generally identified that they would not consider sourcing from these 
interstate manufacturers because: 
 
 
some interested parties considered Selkirk (in Victoria) to have a much smaller 
product range than the joint venture parties and Austral Bricks, and submitted 
that because of capacity constraints, Selkirk would be unable to supply large 
customers in sufficient volumes in the event that the joint venture entity 
increased prices; and 
 
 
NSW and Queensland customers did not consider BGC (in Western Australia) as 
an option because of freight costs from Western Australia and BGC’s lack of 
distribution channels in NSW and Queensland. 
 
69. 
The ACCC’s market inquiries have also indicated that BGC and Selkirk would be 
unlikely to commence manufacturing operations in NSW and Queensland, or expand 
their present manufacturing capacity in order to supply interstate. 
 
Local niche suppliers 
 
70. 
The ACCC’s market inquiries with both customers and small clay brick suppliers were 
consistent in identifying that small-scale brick suppliers, often referred to by market 
participants as ‘niche’ or ‘boutique’ manufacturers, were not considered to be viable or 
realistic alternative sources of supply of large volumes of clay bricks now or in the 
foreseeable future. These manufacturers include Claypave in Queensland, and Namoi 
Valley Bricks and Lincoln Brickworks in NSW. 


 
13 
 
 
71. 
Interested parties submitted that these small-scale brick suppliers mainly manufacture 
pavers, architectural-style bricks or dry-pressed bricks for niche applications, and only 
in small volumes. They have relatively high manufacturing costs and their niche 
products are significantly more expensive than the extruded clay bricks supplied in 
relatively large volumes by Boral, CSR and Austral Bricks. 
 
72. 
The ACCC’s market inquiries indicated that the barriers facing a smaller-scale supplier 
expanding its capacity and range, to the extent that it could compete effectively with 
the joint venture parties and Austral Bricks, would be akin to the barriers facing a 
completely new entrant. In comparison to the major suppliers, small-scale suppliers 
typically have different manufacturing processes, kilns and equipment which is 
inadequate for supplying large volumes. They also have land limitations, different 
types of customers and limited capital. Furthermore, the ACCC’s market inquiries 
identified no small-scale suppliers that considered they would be in a position to 
expand their capacity or product range to the extent that they could compete with the 
joint venture entity or Austral Bricks, irrespective of volume commitments by 
customers. 
 
73. 
The ACCC therefore considers that these smaller ‘niche’ suppliers are not generally in 
close competition, in a practical day-to-day sense, with Boral, CSR and Austral Bricks. 
Based on market inquiries, the ACCC considers that small and/or niche suppliers 
would not place an effective competitive constraint upon the joint venture entity. 
 
Countervailing power of customers 
 
74. 
In the ACCC’s view, countervailing power exists when buyers have special 
characteristics that enable them to defeat a seller’s attempted exercise of market 
power by credibly threatening to bypass the merged firm by vertically integrating into 
the upstream market, establishing importing operations or sponsoring new entry7. 
Countervailing power is therefore more than the ability of a key customer/s to switch to 
alternative products or suppliers8. 
 
75. 
Large clay brick customers would not generally be able to offer sufficient volumes to 
justify capital investment in a new clay brick manufacturing plant or significant 
expansion in capacity of an existing plant. Moreover, the ACCC’s market inquiries 
indicated that residential builders do not generally wish to guarantee purchase 
volumes and would not enter an exclusive arrangement with a new and potentially 
unreliable clay brick supplier or with a small-scale clay brick manufacturer, even in the 
event of an attempted price increase by a major clay brick supplier. Finally, the record 
of price increases to large customers by CSR and Boral, as addressed further below, 
is not consistent with large customers having countervailing power that would 
constrain attempted price increases by the joint venture entity. 
 
76. 
In light of the factors discussed above, the ACCC is at this stage concerned that the 
joint venture entity would have the ability to unilaterally increase prices, reduce output 
or otherwise exercise market power. 
                                                     
7 ACCC Merger Guidelines 2008, 7.48. 
8 This Statement of Issues has already addressed the ability of customers to switch to alternative external cladding products or 
to switch to smaller suppliers of clay bricks. 


 
14 
 
 
Coordinated effects - clay brick duopoly  
 
77. 
The proposed joint venture would effectively create a duopoly in the supply of clay 
bricks in NSW and Queensland. The joint venture entity and Austral Bricks would 
account for approximately 99% of supply of clay bricks in NSW and Queensland. 
 
78. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed joint venture would materially 
reduce the intensity of competition between the remaining major clay bricks suppliers 
or, in other words, result in a general reduction in competitive tension. The proposed 
joint venture would alter the nature of interdependence between rivals such that the 
joint venture entity and Austral Bricks would be more likely to consider that it is in their 
mutual interests to tacitly coordinate their key commercial decisions, such as price 
increases, customer allocation, output and/or production capacities.  
 
79. 
Importantly, the ACCC does not consider that such coordination would necessarily 
require any explicit communication or commitment between rivals. Rather, rivals would 
act in their own self-interest, taking into account each other’s likely actions and 
reactions. 
 
80. 
Many residential builders in NSW and Queensland submitted to the ACCC that, if the 
proposed joint venture proceeds, Austral Bricks would be the only credible or realistic 
alternative source of supply of clay bricks. Specifically, Austral Bricks would be the 
only other clay brick supplier having the manufacturing capacity to supply clay bricks in 
high volumes to residential builders. Furthermore, Austral Bricks would be the only 
other clay brick supplier having the ability to offer the wide range of clay brick products 
required by residential builders. 
 
81. 
The joint venture parties submitted to the ACCC that the proposed joint venture would 
not increase the ability and incentive for the major suppliers to coordinate, in part 
because Austral Bricks would have a strong incentive to deploy spare capacity in order 
to expand supply in response to an attempted price increase by the joint venture entity. 
The joint venture parties submitted to the ACCC that this is because, in summary: 
 
 
the incremental cost of Austral Bricks expanding output at operational plants 
would be very low, meaning that an increase in output would lower the average 
cost of production (as well as increasing revenue); 
 
 
Austral Bricks retains several mothballed plants. While there would be some cost 
involved in re-firing mothballed kilns, these costs would be more than offset by 
the pay-off from increasing output, both in terms of increased revenue and lower 
average cost across all units of production; and 
 
 
the returns that Austral Bricks could expect to derive from maintaining its pricing 
and increasing output to capture market share would be greater than the returns 
it could expect to derive from coordinating to align its prices with the joint venture 
entity.  
 
82. 
The ACCC’s review to date does not generally support the joint venture parties’ 
submissions in this regard. Market feedback to the ACCC as well as the ACCC’s 
review of the joint venture parties’ internal documents both suggest that there would be 
only limited price competition between the joint venture entity and Austral Bricks. 


 
15 
 
 
83. 
Austral Bricks and each of the joint venture parties already have the ability to expand 
output, utilising inventories, existing excess capacity and/or mothballed capacity, to 
gain market share in response to rivals’ price increases. However, based on the 
information presently before the ACCC, the major clay bricks suppliers have not 
historically used their spare capacity (or inventories) to constrain clay brick price 
increases.  
 
84. 
For example, the ACCC notes that in recent years there have been very large clay 
brick price increases - in the order of approximately 20% - to residential builders in 
Queensland. These have not been constrained by rival clay bricks suppliers (or by 
other suppliers of external cladding products). 
 
85. 
Rather, there have been periods when the major clay brick suppliers have increased 
prices in parallel with one another. For example, in May 2011 Boral and CSR each 
notified NSW customers of two price increases, with the increases to have the same 
effective dates in 2011 and 2012. Also, in Queensland in late 2011 and early 2012 
Boral and CSR both implemented a price increase of the same amount. 
 
86. 
This information accords with market feedback to the ACCC. Residential builders 
expressed concerns to the ACCC that, based on their experience of price changes by 
major clay brick suppliers, the timing of future price changes by the joint venture entity 
and Austral Bricks would likely coincide and the size of price changes would likely be 
very similar. Similarly, based on the ACCC’s review of internal documents provided by 
the joint venture parties, the major suppliers have visibility over price changes by their 
rivals and can utilise this information to identify opportunities to increase their own 
prices. 
 
87. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that any price competition between remaining major 
clay brick suppliers would largely be an attempt to win market share from each other, 
and would therefore be self-defeating. A relevant factor in this regard is that demand 
for clay bricks is quite price inelastic9, such that a reduction in the price of bricks is 
unlikely to generate a significant increase in overall demand. Further, given the high 
degree of transparency in the clay bricks markets (as addressed below) and the high 
fixed cost component of clay brick production, competing on price would only serve to 
reduce prices towards marginal cost, without securing market share gains.  
 
88. 
Strong price-based competition between the two remaining major clay brick suppliers 
would therefore reduce profitability. Accordingly, the joint venture entity and Austral 
Bricks would be unlikely to have incentives to compete strongly on price. 
   
89. 
Other features of the clay brick markets are also likely to make tacit coordination 
between the joint venture entity and Austral Bricks more complete and more 
sustainable: 
 
 
the proposed joint venture would generally increase symmetry between major 
clay brick suppliers, in terms of their manufacturing scale and their shares of 
sales or production capacity. This would reduce incentives for the joint venture 
entity and Austral Bricks to compete effectively to win market share from each 
other, and would make it more likely that their commercial decisions would be 
tacitly coordinated; 
                                                     
9 This price inelasticity is consistent with the ACCC’s definition of a separate market for supply of clay bricks. 


 
16 
 
 
 
the nature of brick supply involves frequent and small customer orders (in 
comparison to total output). For this reason, there would be little incentive for the 
joint venture entity and Austral Bricks to deviate from a consensus in order to 
capture market share when the benefits are relatively small and short-lived; 
 
 
there is a high level of transparency about clay brick pricing and production 
capacities, which would facilitate tacit coordination between the two remaining 
major suppliers. Changes in price levels for clay brick product ranges appear to 
be well known between competing major suppliers. The ACCC notes in this 
regard that: 
 
o 
all three major clay brick suppliers regularly increase prices, generally every 
six months. As addressed above, the ACCC’s market inquiries suggest that 
there are already instances of parallel behaviour between the major clay brick 
suppliers in terms of the timing and amount of price increases; 
 
o 
prices are generally increased by the same amount across a supplier’s full 
range of face bricks. These changes in price levels are notified to customers 
and this information is visible between rival suppliers. Effective coordination 
between two remaining major suppliers would not therefore require them to 
reach consensus on final or absolute prices for each of their products; 
 
o 
any excess capacity (including mothballed capacity) and/or inventories held 
by Austral Bricks and the joint venture entity would be likely to operate as a 
disincentive to ‘cheat’ on the terms of any consensus as it could be used to 
punish any deviation from such consensus, rather than this capacity being 
utilised to expand production and constrain a rival supplier’s price increase; 
 
 
there is a high level of transparency, in terms of clay brick customers, which 
would facilitate customer allocation between two major clay brick suppliers. The 
ACCC notes in this regard that: 
 
o 
based on the ACCC’s market inquiries, key customers such as high-volume 
residential builders do not readily switch between clay brick suppliers. This 
stability or ‘stickiness’ of key customers would be likely to facilitate customer 
allocation between the two remaining major clay brick suppliers; 
 
o 
the major clay brick suppliers’ market shares have generally been stable over 
time. In the context of markets with stable market shares held between two 
remaining major suppliers, there is unlikely to be an incentive to ‘cheat’ on the 
terms of coordination, such as by price discounting to particular customers, 
since both major suppliers would recognise that capturing short-lived market 
share at lower profit margins would ultimately be self-defeating; 
 
 
there are frequent interactions between CSR, Boral and Austral Bricks in multiple 
product and geographic markets. The ACCC notes in this regard that: 
 
o 
CSR has a joint venture for clay brick supply in New Zealand with Austral 
Bricks’ parent company, Brickworks. Accordingly, the joint venture entity’s 
major competitor in Australia would be a firm with which the joint venture 
entity’s majority shareholder (CSR) already has a joint venture in a closely 
related market. This is likely to facilitate market transparency and tacit 
coordination between remaining major clay brick suppliers; 


 
17 
 
 
o 
there is multi-market contact between CSR, Boral and/or Brickworks, which 
compete in relation to supply of other building products. A key example is 
supply of plasterboard in Australia. These multi-market interactions are likely 
to increase the scope for reaching terms of coordination as well as punishing 
deviations from those terms, and thereby increase the ability and incentive for 
tacit coordination between the joint venture entity and Austral Bricks; 
 
 
the stability of coordinated conduct would be unlikely to be undermined by any 
countervailing power of large customers, or by actual or potential rivals, as 
barriers to entry and expansion are high, as discussed above. 
 
90. 
In light of these factors and market inquiries, the ACCC at this stage considers that the 
proposed joint venture would materially reduce the intensity of competition between 
the major clay brick suppliers remaining in the markets. The ACCC’s preliminary view 
is that the proposed joint venture would be likely to increase the potential for the major 
clay brick suppliers to recognise their mutual interdependence and tacitly coordinate 
their commercial decisions, rather than to compete effectively. 
 
Preliminary conclusion – supply of clay bricks in NSW and Queensland 
 
91. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed joint venture is likely to substantially 
lessen competition in the NSW and Queensland clay bricks markets, compared to a 
situation with three major competing suppliers - CSR, Boral and Austral Bricks. The 
proposed joint venture would reduce the number of major suppliers from three to two.  
 
92. 
There do not appear to be effective competitive constraints, such as countervailing 
power of customers or a credible threat of new entry or expansion, that would prevent 
clay brick prices from increasing. Also, the proposed joint venture would remove a 
product range from the markets and would thereby reduce consumer choice. 
 
93. 
The ACCC is seeking further information from interested parties, particularly in relation 
to how a duopoly of major clay brick suppliers would be likely to affect the residential 
construction industry and end-consumers in NSW and Queensland, as detailed below. 
 
 
The ACCC invites further views and information from interested parties on the likely 
competition effects of the proposed joint venture in NSW and Queensland. In 
particular, the ACCC is seeking further information from interested parties regarding 
the following specific matters: 
 
a. 
the nature and extent of differentiation between the clay bricks currently offered 
by CSR, Boral and Austral Bricks, and in this regard: 
  
(i) how this influences price competition between them;  
 
(ii) the extent to which the proposed joint venture would result in a reduction in 
 
choice of products, with particular reference to face bricks;  
 
b. 
the extent to which Austral Bricks operational and mothballed production 
capacity could be used to constrain an exercise of unilateral market power by the 
joint venture entity; 


 
18 
 
 
c. 
how price-based coordination may occur between the joint venture entity and 
Austral Bricks, having regard to customer experience of price increases by the 
major suppliers of clay bricks. For example, is it likely that a price change would 
be applied across a supplier’s full range of face bricks and to what extent would 
negotiations with customers for discounts reduce price transparency between 
suppliers; 
 
d. 
how any customer allocation may occur between the joint venture entity and 
Austral Bricks, such as based on a customer’s geographic location or merely to 
not actively poach existing customers or otherwise seek to win sales from each 
other; 
 
e. 
the extent to which existing toll manufacturing and supply arrangements between 
the joint venture parties in Queensland and NSW have an effect on current 
competition between the major clay brick suppliers; and 
 
f. 
whether, in any other building products markets in Australia, there are examples 
of a reduction in the number of major suppliers leading to an apparent increase 
in coordination by the remaining suppliers, in terms of pricing or customer 
allocation. 
 
 
Issues that may raise concerns - supply of clay bricks in Victoria and 
South Australia 
 
94. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed joint venture may substantially 
lessen competition for the supply of clay bricks in Victoria and South Australia. The 
following section describes the ACCC’s potential concerns and provides details of 
specific further information that is being sought from interested parties. 
 
95. 
While the joint venture parties compete with each other to supply clay bricks in Victoria 
and South Australia, there is no overlap between them in the manufacture of clay 
bricks in these states. CSR does not manufacture clay bricks in Victoria, and Boral 
does not manufacture bricks in South Australia.  
 
96. 
Both joint venture parties currently have a relatively small share of clay brick supply in 
the state in which they have no manufacturing presence, accounting for less than 
approximately 5% of sales. This is likely to be in significant part a consequence of the 
impact of interstate freight costs.  
 
97. 
However, the only other major clay brick supplier present in Victoria and South 
Australia is Austral Bricks. The ACCC’s market inquires identified a concern among 
residential builders in both States regarding a reduction from three to two major 
suppliers as a result of the proposed joint venture.  
 
98. 
Although CSR does not manufacture bricks in Victoria, some residential builders 
submitted that CSR competes effectively with the other major brick suppliers, using its 
distribution network to supply bricks manufactured interstate. Similarly, some 
residential builders in South Australia submitted that the loss of Boral as an 
independent supplier (transporting bricks from Victoria and/or Western Australia) 
would have a significant impact on competition in South Australia. 


 
19 
 
 
99. 
The ACCC therefore considers that, even with small shares of supply of clay bricks, 
the presence of CSR in Victoria and Boral in South Australia as actual and potential 
suppliers may currently act as an effective competitive constraint on the other major 
suppliers in each State and have a destabilising effect on the potential for coordination. 
 
100. Moreover, the presence of both CSR and Boral as suppliers in Victoria and South 
Australia increases the product range available to consumers, in terms of the variety of 
aesthetic characteristics of clay bricks offered for construction of new homes. The 
proposed joint venture would remove a product range from these markets and would 
thereby significantly reduce the choice of clay brick product range offered to builders, 
architects/designers and end-consumers in Victoria and South Australia. 
 
101. The ACCC notes the presence of Selkirk in Victoria, which manufactures bricks in 
Ballarat and principally supplies regional areas in Victoria. Selkirk’s market share is 
greater in Victoria than CSR’s. However, the ACCC’s market inquiries indicated that 
residential builders in Victoria generally considered Selkirk to be a less significant 
competitor to Boral and Austral Bricks, and also to CSR. The reasons for this included 
that Selkirk: 
 
 
cannot supply the high volumes required by high-volume contract home builders; 
 
 
offers a relatively limited product range; and 
 
 
has comparatively low brand awareness outside regional Victoria.  
 
Preliminary conclusion - supply of clay bricks in Victoria and South Australia 
 
102. For the reasons outlined above, the proposed joint venture may substantially lessen 
competition in relation to clay brick supply in Victoria and South Australia, 
notwithstanding the relatively small volumes currently supplied there by CSR and 
Boral, respectively. The ACCC is seeking further information from interested parties, 
particularly in relation to the extent to which the removal of competition from CSR and 
Boral in Victoria and South Australia, respectively, would change competitive dynamics 
in these clay brick markets. 
 
 
The ACCC invites further views and information from interested parties on the likely 
competitive effects of the proposed joint venture in Victoria and South Australia. 
 
The ACCC is seeking further information from interested parties regarding the extent 
to which CSR in Victoria and Boral in South Australia offer to supply and/or actively 
compete in clay brick tenders for large projects, with particular reference to specific 
examples of such activity creating additional competitive tension (for example, lower 
prices than would otherwise be the case) in these markets for supply of clay bricks. 
 
 
Issue unlikely to raise competition concerns - supply of clay bricks in 
Tasmania 
 
103. The ACCC considers that the proposed joint venture is unlikely to raise competition 
concerns in this market. However, the ACCC will accept submissions and further 
consider this issue if it considers that such an assessment is warranted. 


 
20 
 
 
104. Boral currently supplies clay bricks in small volumes to Tasmanian customers from its 
mainland manufacturing operations, in competition with Austral Bricks. CSR does not 
currently supply Tasmania. On this basis, there is no current overlap or competition 
between the joint venture parties in supply of clay bricks in Tasmania. That is, the 
proposed joint venture would not change the current market structure in the supply of 
clay bricks in Tasmania. 
 
105. However, the ACCC has considered whether the proposed joint venture would be 
likely to remove significant potential competition in Tasmania. In other words, the 
ACCC considered whether the proposed joint venture would substantially lessen 
competition by removing CSR as a significant future supplier or as a credible threat of 
supply of clay bricks to Tasmanian customers. 
 
106. The ACCC has reviewed material provided by CSR in this regard, and has also had 
regard to information provided by Boral about the volumes and product range it 
supplies to Tasmanian customers. The ACCC has also taken into account views and 
information provided to the ACCC by interested parties in Tasmania in relation to how 
the proposed joint venture may change competitive dynamics for supply of clay bricks. 
Based on the ACCC’s review of this information and in light of the matters identified 
above, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed joint venture would be 
unlikely to substantially lessen competition for supply of clay bricks in Tasmania. 
 
ACCC’s future steps 
 
107. The ACCC will finalise its view on the proposed joint venture after it considers market 
responses invited by this Statement of Issues. The ACCC now seeks submissions 
from interested parties on each of the issues identified in this Statement of Issues and 
on any other issue that may be relevant to the ACCC’s assessment of this matter. 
 
108. Submissions in response to this Statement of Issues are to be received by the ACCC 
no later than 6 November 2014. The ACCC will consider the submissions received 
from the market and the joint venture parties in light of the issues identified above and 
will, in conjunction with information and submissions already provided by the joint 
venture parties, come to a final view on the likely competition effects arising from the 
proposed joint venture. 
 
109. The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 18 December 2014. However 
the anticipated timeline may change in line with the ACCC’s Merger Review Process 
Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose of explaining the 
ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's public announcement. 
 
