Undertaking to the Australian 
Competition and Consumer 
Commission 
  
Given under section 87B of the Competition and 
Consumer 
Act 2010 (Cth) by Sigma Healthcare 
Limited (ACN 088 417 403)


Contents 
1. 
Person giving the Undertaking .....0......ccsccsscesseseeessssneeeenssereenseseesesscseseuseeensunnseaeuans 1 
2. 
BACK QOUNG Le eeeeeeeeeeeeeeseeeseeeeeeeeeneeenseencenseeneeeeneusseemeesssaasseeaseeaenaaseaseenesenseesnees 1 
3. 
Commencement of this Undertaking.............:ccssccssseseeessonesseeessrensereesscesssceseeeeres 2 
4. 
Commitment to Remain a CSO WholeSaler ........ccccessscssssssessseessseesessensstensesens 3 
5. 
No restraint on termination ...........cccscesscesseseesseeesssensseesscessseesesnesseneeesssesssnesasanenses 3 
6. 
Non-retention of Confidential Data for exiting customers ............c:cccseesseneseeeees 5 
7. 
Information to staff, Franchisees, Buying Group Customers and Wholesale 
CUSTOIMETS 0. cecceccseeeseeecsseeeeneeenceeeesneesnesasneseneeesaseeeasaesenenensaeenseesesessssensesenessoesessensusnsseonaanaes 7 
8. 
Independent Audit .............::cesseccesseeeenesseeeeeessecusneseeesesseeeensessensasssneeesseecensensensnseuananas 8 
9. 
Notification of key dates and ACCC requests for information ..........: cesses 12 
10. 
Disclosure of this Undertaking ................cc:cccssseeeesceeeesesseeesesseeseaseneeenensenenseseenens 13 
11. 
Obligation to ProCure .........:ccsccsseeeseeeeeseesseseesseenseneescaeseeaessseeeeseeesseevasesssonensnaneas 13 
12. 
Cessation of Ongoing Obligations «00.0.0... ccsssessceesessenerssnsssseessseeseneessseeeeseesenes 14 
13. 
No Derogation...........cccceecccsseeceeseeeseeeeeeeeeescseeeneneeeesseneeeesseneeeeecteneessceuussscageusueeueeenans 14 
14. 
Change of Control .........cccssccsssceseeeeeeeeeseeeeaeeeeeenecssnueeseeseneesesnsssanevseesveseesaseeeeserensees 14 
15. 
COStS ...eeescessessseceneeeeeeneeseeeeneeseaneeeneaensaeeanaeeusneesaneeasseeesersssenedssueuscoesessessenensesseeesonsenes 14 
16. 
NOtiC@S ........... cc cesessceeeesceeeenseeeeenseeeeeaaceneeaaseeseaseaaesesaceeeseseaeegseseeeeeseeeeesnesseuneneroeenenes 15 
17. 
Defined terms and interpretation ...............ccesscessseeeseeeeceessseeseseeeeseeeeeneseessenenaaes 16 
Schedule 1 
— Dictionary and interpretation ...........:ccsesceesesseeesesseeesesenenseusseanneszens 18 
Schedule 2 
— Proposed Independent Auditor Appointment Form...........::ccseee 24 
Schedule 3 
— Dispute Resolution Process. ...........cccccssssscesssseeecenssceensseeeeerenseeseesnenes 26


  
1. 
Person giving the Undertaking 
1.1 
This Undertaking is given to the Australian Competition and Consumer 
Commission (ACCC) by Sigma Healthcare Limited (ACN 088 417 403) on behalf 
of itself and its subsidiaries (together referred to as Sigma in this Undertaking). 
2. 
Background 
  
The parties to the proposed acquisition 
2.1 
2.2 
Sigma is a publicly listed Australian pharmaceutical wholesaler and franchisor of 
retail pharmacies under the brands Amcal, Discount Drug Store, PharmaSave 
and Guardian. 
CW Group Holdings Limited (Chemist Warehouse) is an unlisted Australian 
company. 
It is a franchisor of retail pharmacies under the brands Chemist 
Warehouse and MyChemist. Chemist Warehouse also operates as a wholesaler 
to its franchisees. 
The Proposed Acquisition 
2.3 
On 11 December 2023, Sigma and Chemist Warehouse entered into a Merger 
Implementation Agreement, pursuant to which Sigma will acquire all the shares 
in Chemist Warehouse by way of a scheme of arrangement in exchange for a 
combination of Sigma shares and $700 million cash consideration. 
The ACCC’s review 
24 
2.5 
2.6 
2.7 
2.8 
On 8 March 2024, the ACCC commenced its public review of the Proposed 
Acquisition. 
The ACCC undertook market inquiries and considered information provided by 
the parties to the Proposed Acquisition, industry participants and others. 
The purpose of the ACCC’s inquiries was to assess whether the Proposed 
Acquisition could have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of substantially 
lessening competition in any market in Australia in contravention of section 50 of 
the Act. 
The ACCC investigated a number of potential competition issues associated with 
the proposed acquisition, including: 
(a) 
Potential structural market change which may raise barriers to entry and 
expansion to pharmacy retailing and/or wholesaling 
(b) 
A potential reduction in competition in pharmacy retailing 
(c) 
A potential foreclosure of retail pharmacies 
(d) 
The merged firm’s access to Sigma-supplied independent pharmacies’ data 
potentially reducing retail pharmacy competition. 
Sigma does not consider that the Proposed Acquisition would have the effect, or 
be likely to have the effect, of substantially lessening competition in any relevant 
market. However, to address the ACCC's competition concerns, Sigma has 
offered this Undertaking pursuant to section 87B of the Act.


The ACCC’s competition concerns 
2.9 
2.10 
2.11 
2.12 
The ACCC was concerned that, in the absence of the Undertaking, the Proposed 
Acquisition may have the effect, or be likely to have the effect of, substantially 
lessening competition in pharmacy retailing in Australia. 
The ACCC was concerned that, absent this Undertaking, the merged entity may 
have the ability and incentive to worsen terms to non-Chemist Warehouse 
pharmacies that were in competition with Chemist Warehouse banner 
pharmacies, leading to a likely substantial lessening of competition. The ability to 
lessen competition in this way could be mitigated if non-Chemist Warehouse 
pharmacies were able to easily and at low-cost switch to a rival supplier of 
franchise services and wholesale products (e.g. API or EBOS). However, the 
costs of any such switching would be high for franchisees and other pharmacies 
that were tied to long-term contractual commitments to continue to acquire 
franchise services and/or products from Sigma in a future with the proposed 
transaction. 
The ACCC was also concerned that the Proposed Acquisition, in the absence of 
the Undertaking, may enable the merged entity to access and use commercially 
sensitive data of Sigma franchisees and wholesale customers in a way that 
damages retail pharmacy competition. 
The ACCC’s third concern was that, absent the Undertaking, Sigma may choose 
to cease to be 
a CSO wholesaler and only supply pharmacy products to its 
franchisees. This would reduce the number of available CSO wholesale options 
for pharmacies and would be likely to lessen competition between retail 
pharmacies. 
The Undertaking remedy 
2.13 
The objective of this Undertaking is to address the ACCC’s concerns as set out 
above, by requiring Sigma to commit: 
(a) 
to ensure that Sigma franchisees and wholesale customers can readily 
terminate their agreements with Sigma, subject to specific exclusions as set 
out in clause 5; 
(b) 
to implement data protection measures and to delete confidential information 
when Sigma franchisees and wholesale customers elect to terminate their 
contracts with Sigma; 
(c) 
to remain a participating pharmaceutical wholesaler in the Commonwealth 
Government’s Community Service Obligation (CSO) arrangements; and 
(d) 
to provide for the effective oversight of Sigma’s compliance with this 
Undertaking. 
Commencement of this Undertaking 
  
3.1 
This Undertaking comes into effect when: 
(a) 
this Undertaking is executed by Sigma; and 
(b) 
this Undertaking so executed is accepted by the ACCC, 
(the Commencement Date).


Commitment to Remain a CSO Wholesaler 
  
4.1 
4.2 
4.3 
44 
4.5 
5. 
For a period of five (5) years from the Control Date, Sigma will participate in the 
CSO Funding Pool Arrangements. 
The obligation in clause 4.1 requires that Sigma: 
(a) 
remains a CSO Distributor; and 
(b) 
is party to and will not terminate Sigma’s CSO Deed. 
In the event that Sigma’s CSO Deed is amended or replaced: 
(a) 
Sigma must notify the ACCC and the Approved Independent Auditor in 
writing within one (1) Business Day; and 
(b) 
Sigma must provide the ACCC and the Approved Independent Auditor with 
a copy of the relevant amendment or replacement Deed within fifteen (15) 
Business Days. 
Within 60 days of the end of each financial year, Sigma must provide to the 
ACCC and the Approved Independent Auditor, in respect of the prior financial 
year, a statement signed by a duly authorised officer stating that, to the best of 
the duly authorised officer's knowledge and belief, Sigma has complied with its 
obligations under clause 4 of this Undertaking. 
If this Undertaking commences or expires, is withdrawn, terminated, or revoked 
during a financial year, the relevant compliance certification from Sigma need 
only cover the part of the financial year in respect of which this Undertaking was 
in operation. 
No restraint on termination 
  
No Restraint on Termination 
5.1 
5.2 
For a period of three (3) years from the Control Date, Sigma must not prevent or 
in any way hinder an Existing Franchisee, an Existing Buying Group Customer, 
or an Existing Wholesale Customer who signed or agreed to their arrangement 
prior to 1 July 2024 (‘Existing Franchisee,’ ‘Existing Buying Group Customer’ 
or ‘Existing Wholesale Customer’ as appropriate) from terminating: 
(a) 
their Franchise Agreement; 
(b) 
their Supply Agreement; and/or 
(c) 
any other agreement or arrangement that the Existing Franchisee, Existing 
Buying Group Customer or Existing Wholesale Customer may have with 
Sigma (other agreement). 
Notwithstanding clause 5.1, Sigma may require Existing Franchisees, Existing 
Buying Group Customers and Existing Wholesale Customers who elect to 
terminate their Franchise Agreement, Supply Agreement or other agreement 
within three (3) years from the Control Date to: 
(a) 
provide two months’ notice before termination will take effect (unless their 
Franchise Agreement, Supply Agreement or other agreement provides for a 
shorter notice period, in which case that shorter notice period will apply); and 
3


5.3 
(b) 
to settle any Outstanding Monies to Sigma prior to the Termination Date, 
excluding reimbursement of Sigma’s Contributions as provided for in clause 
5.4 below. 
For the avoidance of doubt, an Existing Franchisee, Existing Buying Group 
Customer or an Existing Wholesale Customer may elect to terminate their 
Franchise Agreement, Supply Agreement or other agreement in accordance with 
clause 5.1 
if the notice provided under clause 5.2(a) is received by Sigma within 
three (3) years from the Control Date, even if the Termination Date occurs after 
three (3) years from the Control Date. 
No Reimbursement of Sigma’s Contributions 
5.4 
5.5 
5.6 
Subject to clause 5.2 above, where an Existing Franchisee, Existing Buying 
Group Customer or Existing Wholesale Customer elects to terminate their 
Franchise Agreement, Supply Agreement or other agreement within three (3) 
years from the Control Date, Sigma must not require the Existing Franchisee, 
Existing Buying Group Customer or Existing Wholesale Customer to reimburse 
Sigma for any Contributions that have been paid by Sigma, to the Existing 
Franchisee, Existing Buying Group Customer or Existing Wholesale Customer 
prior to the Termination Date. 
For the avoidance of doubt, and subject to clause 5.2 above, when an Existing 
Franchisee, Existing Buying Group Customer or Existing Wholesale Group 
Customer elects to terminate its agreement within three (3) years of the Control 
Date, 
it shall not be liable for any future contributions or fees that would 
otherwise be owed to Sigma under the terminated agreement, including but not 
limited to any Franchisee Agreement, Supply Agreement or other agreement. 
For the avoidance of doubt and subject to clause 5.2, Sigma is not required to 
reimburse or forgive an Existing Franchisee, Existing Buying Group Customer or 
Existing Wholesale Group Customer who elects to terminate its agreement within 
three (3) years of the Control Date in respect of any Outstanding Monies which 
are due and payable as at the Termination Date. 
No enforcement of obligations to pay franchise fees or any other fees beyond 
termination 
5.7 
Subject to clause 5.2 above, where an Existing Franchisee elects to terminate 
their Franchise Agreement within three (3) years from the Control Date, Sigma 
must not enforce, or take any steps to enforce, any clause in their Franchise 
Agreement which requires the Existing Franchisee to pay annual franchise fees 
or any other fees from the Termination Date to the date of expiry of the initial 
term of the Franchise Agreement. 
For the avoidance of doubt, an Existing 
Franchisee must pay any franchise fees or other fees to Sigma incurred or 
accrued prior to the date Sigma receives a notice of termination under clause 
5.2(a) but which remain outstanding as at the Termination Date. 
No further services or contributions by Sigma beyond termination 
5.8 
For the avoidance of doubt, where an Existing Franchisee, Existing Buying 
Group Customer or Existing Wholesale Customer elects to terminate their 
Franchise Agreement, Supply Agreement or other agreement within three (3) 
years of the Contro! Date, from the Termination Date Sigma is no longer required 
to provide any services, rebates, discounts and contributions which have not 
been earned or paid to the Existing Franchisee, Existing Buying Group or 
Existing Wholesale Customer under the Franchise Agreement or Supply 
Agreement, as applicable, unless validly accrued and payable prior to the


Termination Date of the relevant Franchise Agreement, Supply Agreement or 
other agreement. 
Disputes relating to termination under this clause 
5.9 
5.10 
Any disputes between an Existing Franchisee, Existing Buying Group Customer 
or Existing Wholesale Customer and Sigma regarding termination of a Franchise 
Agreement, Supply Agreement or other agreement under this clause 5 may be 
raised by an Existing Franchisee, Existing Buying Group Customer or Wholesale 
Supply Customer (the Dispute Applicant) under the Dispute Resolution Process 
set out in Schedule 3. 
Sigma must comply with the Dispute Resolution Process in Schedule 3 to 
determine disputes by any Dispute Applicant under clause 5.9. 
Sigma must provide a copy of the Dispute Resolution Process in Schedule 3 to 
an Existing Franchisee, Existing Buying Group Customer or Existing Wholesale 
Supply Customer within 
7 Business Days of receiving a notice of termination 
under clause 5.2 
. 
Non-retention of Confidential Data for exiting customers 
  
6.1 
6.2 
6.3 
If an Existing Franchisee, Existing Buying Group Customer or Existing Wholesale 
Customer gives a notice of termination within a period of three (3) years from the 
Control Date (Exiting Customer) then Sigma will ensure that within 2 Business 
Days from receipt of that Notice: 
(a) 
No Sigma personnel (including Ring-fenced Personnel) other than the 
Approved Sigma Personnel may have access to the Exiting Customer's 
Confidential Information; and 
(b) 
Sigma must not use the Exiting Customer's Confidential Information for any 
purpose, except as provided by clause 6.3 below. 
Within 10 Business Days of the Termination Date, Sigma must: 
(a) 
delete the Exiting Customer's Confidential Information related to the notice 
of termination that has been given and undertake not to use that Confidential 
Information except as provided by clause 6.3 below; 
(b) 
subject to clause 6.5, de-identify any data relating to an Exiting Customer, 
such that the data is anonymised and no Sigma personnel (including Ring- 
fenced Personnel) other than the Approved Sigma Personnel may have 
access to any data that identifies the Exiting Customer (De-identified Data). 
Notwithstanding clauses 6.1(b) and 6.2(a), Sigma may retain such Confidential 
Information: 
(a) 
asis necessary for Sigma to effect the exit process for the Exiting Customer, 
including for any legal disputes; 
(b) 
that Sigma is required by law to retain; or 
(c) 
that is reasonably necessary for Sigma to meet its CSO or other legal 
reporting requirements, including in respect of any product safety recalls.


6.4 
To the extent any Confidential Information is retained pursuant to clause 6.3, 
it 
must only be accessible by Approved Sigma Personnel. 
Exiting customers that wish to retain 
a Sigma trading account 
6.5 
Without liming clause 6.3, 
if an Exiting Customer elects to terminate its Franchise 
Agreement, Supply Agreement or other agreement within three (3) years of the 
Control Date 
but wishes to continue to purchase products from Sigma, and 
subject to the consent of the Exiting Customer, then, except for Sigma Ring- 
Fenced Personnel, Sigma shall be permitted to receive and access Confidential 
Information that is reasonably necessary to maintain an ongoing Sigma trading 
account. 
Protection of Confidential Information 
6.6 
6.7 
6.8 
Sigma must establish and maintain effective information technology (IT) systems 
and security measures to safeguard the Exiting Customer's Confidential 
Information from unauthorised access, use, copying or disclosure in accordance 
with the terms of this Undertaking. 
This will include providing individual 
usernames, passwords and access keys to any Approved Sigma Personnel who 
have access to the Confidential Information of Exiting Customers. 
From the Control! Date, Sigma must appoint a Sigma Information Compliance 
Officer who is responsible on a day-to-day basis for: 
(a) 
monitoring Sigma’s compliance with clauses 6.1 to 6.6; and 
(b) 
maintaining a register of: 
(i) 
Ring-Fenced Personnel; and 
(ii) 
| Approved Sigma Personnel. 
For the purposes of this Undertaking, Confidential Information means 
information or data provided by an Exiting Customer to Sigma (whether such 
information is provided before the date of this Undertaking or subsequent to the 
date of this Undertaking) in relation to the business of that Exiting Customer: 
e 
obtained from the Wholesale Customer, Buying Group Customer or 
Franchisee’s Point of Sale (PoS) system; 
e 
individualised store promotional plans and pricing (excluding promotions 
proposed by Sigma for all franchisees, franchisees within specific franchise 
banner groups or particular customer groups or franchisees); 
wholesale product orders and pricing; 
order volumes and order history; 
franchise agreement terms; 
any information that could identify 
a Wholesale Customer, Buying Group 
Customer or Franchisee in connection with information which the customer 
reasonably considers to be commercially sensitive information; 
credit or other information obtained to establish an account; 
financial information including but not limited to: account payment history, 
payment terms/methods (including credit lines), credit history, and 
information relating to the value of a pharmacy (including purchase price, 
valuations, and loan amounts); 
loyalty program data; and 
terms relating to agreements with third-party manufacturers as they relate to 
the Exiting Customer.


6.9 
6.10 
For the avoidance of doubt, Confidential Information does not include: 
(a) 
information which has been aggregated with other information of a similar 
nature such that it is not competitively sensitive including because it relates 
to a sufficiently broad time period or cannot reasonably be, and is not 
reasonably capable of being, identified with, attributed to or used to identify 
any specific Exiting Customer; 
(b) 
De-identified Data. 
For the purposes of this Undertaking, Ring-Fenced Personnel are directors or 
employees of Sigma who: 
(a) 
hold a direct or indirect ownership interest in 
a Chemist Warehouse 
Franchise; or 
(b) 
who have any involvement in the day-to-day management of Sigma’s 
relationship with Chemist Warehouse franchisees. 
Information to staff, Franchisees, Buying Group Customers 
and Wholesale Customers 
  
7.1 
7.2 
7.3 
Sigma will ensure that the existence of the Undertaking and its obligations are 
brought to the attention of all staff (excluding temporary contractors, and Sigma 
personnel whose place of employment is a specific distribution centre or 
warehouse and are not a manager) and that training is provided to those staff on 
an annual basis or within three (3) months of the commencement of their 
employment (whichever is earlier). This obligation commences one month from 
the Control Date. 
The training for Sigma staff in accordance with clause 7.1 must cover the 
following areas at 
a minimum: 
(a) 
Sigma’s obligations under the Undertaking; 
(b) 
identification of Approved Sigma Personnel; 
(c) 
identification of the Ring-Fenced Personnel; 
(d) 
how Sigma manages its obligations, including Sigma’s systems and 
processes in place to support compliance; 
(e) 
the relevant team and/or employees’ role in ensuring compliance with the 
Undertaking; 
(f) 
consequences of non-compliance with the Undertaking; 
(g) 
the role and identity of the Sigma Information Compliance Officer and 
processes for notifying of any potential breach; and 
(h) 
who Sigma staff should contact if they have any questions or concerns. 
Sigma will publish on its website in 
a prominent location and provide to all current 
Franchisees, Buying Group Customers and Wholesale Customers within one 
month of the Control Date:


8. 
(a) 
aplain English summary of the obligations contained in clauses 5 and 6 (as 
applicable) of this Undertaking (which summary is to be provided to the 
ACCC for approval prior to distribution); and 
(b) 
a link to the ACCC’s website publishing a copy of the Undertaking. 
Independent Audit 
  
Obligation to appoint an Approved Independent Auditor 
8.1 
Sigma must appoint and maintain an Approved Independent Auditor to audit and 
report upon Sigma’s compliance with this Undertaking. 
Process for approving a Proposed Independent Auditor 
8.2 
8.3 
8.4 
8.5 
8.6 
At least 15 Business Days before the Control Date, Sigma must provide the 
ACCC with a notice for 
a Proposed Independent Auditor in the form prescribed in 
Schedule 2 to this Undertaking (Proposed Independent Auditor Notice), 
including draft terms of appointment and a draft audit plan. 
The Approved Independent Auditor is to be appointed for a term of three (3) 
years. Within 15 Business Days of the end of the Approved Independent 
Auditor's term, Sigma must provide the ACCC with a new Proposed independent 
Auditor Notice. A person who is, or who has been, the Independent Auditor is 
eligible for reappointment as the Independent Auditor. 
If clauses 8.17, 8.18 or 8.19 apply, Sigma must provide the ACCC with a 
Proposed Independent Auditor Notice within five Business Days after the 
relevant event occurs. 
The ACCC shall have the discretion to approve or reject in writing the Proposed 
Independent Auditor identified in the Proposed Independent Auditor Notice. 
Without limiting the ACCC’s discretion, in deciding whether to approve a 
Proposed Independent Auditor, the factors to which the ACCC may have regard 
include whether the: 
(a) 
person named in the Proposed Independent Auditor Notice or identified by 
the ACCC has the qualifications and experience necessary to carry out the 
functions of the Approved Independent Auditor including a current certificate 
to practice as an Australian legal practitioner and relevant dispute resolution 
experience: 
(b) 
person named in the Proposed Independent Auditor Notice or identified by 
the ACCC is sufficiently independent of Sigma; 
(c) 
draft terms of appointment and the draft audit plan are consistent with this 
Undertaking; and 
(d) 
draft terms of appointment and the draft audit plan are otherwise acceptable 
to the ACCC. 
Appointment of the Approved Independent Auditor 
8.7 
After receiving a written notice from the ACCC of its approval of 
a Proposed 
Independent Auditor, the draft terms of appointment and draft audit plan, Sigma 
must by the Control Date:


(a) 
appoint the person approved by the ACCC as the Approved Independent 
Auditor on the Approved Terms of Appointment; and 
(b) 
forward to the ACCC a copy of the executed Approved Terms of 
Appointment. 
Failure to appoint 
8.8 
If: 
(a) 
the Approved Independent Auditor has not been appointed by the Control 
Date; 
(b) 
the Approved Independent Auditor has not been appointed within 
15 Business Days after the Approved Independent Auditor resigns or 
otherwise ceases to act as the Approved Independent Auditor pursuant to 
clause 8.17, 8.18, or 8.19; or 
(c) 
the ACCC has not received a Proposed Independent Auditor Notice 
pursuant to clause 8.2 and 8.4; 
then clause 8.9 applies. 
8.9 
If clause 8.8 applies, the ACCC at its absolute discretion may: 
(a) 
identify and approve a person as the Approved Independent Auditor, 
including approving the draft terms of appointment and draft audit plan; 
and/or 
(b) 
direct Sigma to appoint a person who the ACCC has deemed is an 
Approved Independent Auditor. 
Obligations and powers of the Approved Independent Auditor 
8.10 
Sigma must procure that any proposed terms of appointment for the Approved 
Independent Auditor include obligations on the Approved Independent Auditor to: 
(a) 
maintain his or her independence from Sigma, apart from appointment to the 
role of Approved Independent Auditor, including not forming any relationship 
of the types described in paragraph 2.2(c) of Schedule 2 to this Undertaking 
with Sigma for the period of his or her appointment; 
(b) 
conduct compliance auditing according to the Approved Audit Plan; 
(c) 
provide the following directly to the ACCC: 
(i) 
| ascheduled written Audit Report as described in clause 8.12; 
(ii) 
| an immediate report of any issues that arise in relation to the 
performance of his or her functions as Approved Independent 
Auditor or in relation to compliance with this Undertaking by any 
person named in this Undertaking; 
(iii) 
| access to the internal register referred to in 6.7(b) above; and 
(d) 
follow any direction given to him or her by the ACCC in relation to the 
performance of his or her functions as Approved Independent Auditor under 
this Undertaking. 
9


8.11 
Sigma must procure that any proposed terms of appointment for the Approved 
Independent Auditor provide the Approved Independent Auditor with the authority 
to: 
(a) 
(b) 
(Cc) 
access the facilities, sites or operations of the Sigma business as required 
by the Approved Independent Auditor; 
access any information or documents that the Approved Independent 
Auditor considers necessary for carrying out his or her functions as the 
Approved Independent Auditor or for reporting to or otherwise advising the 
ACCC (including the internal register referred to in 6.7(b) above); and 
engage any external expertise, assistance or advice required by the 
Approved Independent Auditor to perform his or her functions as the 
Approved Independent Auditor. 
Compliance Audit 
8.12 
8.13 
The Approved Independent Auditor must conduct an audit and prepare a detailed 
report (Audit Report) that includes: 
(a) 
(b) 
(Cc) 
(d) 
(e) 
(f) 
(9) 
(h) 
the Approved Independent Auditor's procedures in conducting the audit, or 
any change to audit procedures and processes since the previous Audit 
Report; 
a full audit of Sigma’s compliance with this Undertaking; 
identification of any areas of uncertainty or ambiguity in the Approved 
Independent Auditor’s interpretation of any obligations contained in this 
Undertaking; 
all of the reasons for the conclusions reached in the Audit Report; 
any qualifications made by the Approved Independent Auditor in forming his 
or her views; 
any recommendations by the Approved Independent Auditor to improve: 
(i) 
| the Approved Audit Plan; 
(ii) 
the integrity of the auditing process; 
(iii) 
| Sigma’s processes or reporting systems in relation to compliance 
with this Undertaking; and 
(iv) 
| Sigma’s compliance with this Undertaking; 
the implementation and outcome of any prior recommendations by the 
Approved Independent Auditor; and 
a copy of any determination(s) made in the period covered by the Audit 
Report. 
The Approved Independent Auditor is to provide an Audit Report to the ACCC 
and Sigma at the following times: 
(a) 
within 20 Business Days after the Control Date, at which time the Audit 
Report is to include the results of the initial audit and any recommended 
10


changes to the Approved Audit Plan, including the Approved Independent 
Auditor's proposed procedures and processes for conducting the audit 
(Establishment Audit); 
(b) 
every three (3) months from the date of the Establishment Audit until the 
ACCC confirms in writing to Sigma that it is satisfied that Sigma has fulfilled 
its obligations pursuant to this Undertaking. 
8.14 
Sigma must implement any recommendations made by the Approved 
Independent Auditor in Audit Reports and notify the ACCC of the implementation 
of the recommendations, within 10 Business Days after receiving the Audit 
Report or such other period as agreed in writing with the ACCC. 
8.15 
Sigma must comply with any direction of the ACCC in relation to matters arising 
from the Audit Report within 10 Business Days after being so directed (or such 
other period as agreed in writing with the ACCC). 
Sigma’s obligations in relation to the Approved Independent Auditor 
8.16 
Without limiting its obligations in this Undertaking, Sigma must: 
(a) 
comply with and enforce the Approved Terms of Appointment for the 
Approved Independent Auditor; 
(b) 
maintain and fund the Approved Independent Auditor to carry out his or her 
functions including: 
(i) 
(ii) 
(iii) 
paying the costs of the Approved Independent Auditor in relation to 
this Undertaking, including the audit obligations under clause 8 and 
the adjudication of any Dispute under clause 4 of Schedule 3 
to this 
Undertaking; 
indemnifying the Approved Independent Auditor for any expenses, 
loss, claim or damage arising directly or indirectly from the 
performance by the Approved Independent Auditor of his or her 
functions as the Approved Independent Auditor except where such 
expenses, loss, claim or damage arises out of the gross negligence, 
fraud, misconduct or breach of duty by the Approved Independent 
Auditor; 
providing and paying for any external expertise, assistance or advice 
required by the Approved Independent Auditor to perform his or her 
functions as the Approved Independent Auditor; and 
(c) 
not interfere with, or otherwise hinder, the Approved Independent Auditor’s 
ability to carry out his or her functions as the Approved Independent Auditor, 
including: 
(i) 
directing Sigma personnel, including directors, contractors, 
managers, officers, employees and agents, to act in accordance with 
this clause 8; 
providing access to the facilities, sites or operations of Sigma’s 
business as required by the Approved Independent Auditor; 
providing to the Approved Independent Auditor any information or 
documents that they consider necessary for carrying out his or her 
11


functions as the Approved Independent Auditor or for reporting to or 
otherwise advising the ACCC; 
(iv) 
not requesting any information relating to the compliance audit from 
the Approved Independent Auditor without such a request having 
been approved by the ACCC; and 
(v) 
not appointing the Approved Independent Auditor, or have any 
Agreements with the Approved Independent Auditor, to utilise the 
Approved Independent Auditor’s services for anything other than 
compliance with this Undertaking until at least 12 months after the 
Approved Independent Auditor ceases to act in the role of the 
Approved Independent Auditor. 
Resignation, revocation or termination of the Approved Independent Auditor 
8.17 
8.18 
8.19 
Sigma must immediately notify the ACCC in the event that the Approved 
Independent Auditor resigns or otherwise stops acting as the Approved 
Independent Auditor. 
The ACCC may revoke an Approved Independent Auditor's status as the 
Approved Independent Auditor if the ACCC becomes aware that any information 
provided to it in connection with the appointment of the Approved Independent 
Auditor was incorrect, inaccurate or misleading. 
The ACCC may approve, pursuant to clause 8.5, any proposal by, or 
alternatively may direct, Sigma to terminate the appointment of the Approved 
Independent Auditor if in the ACCC’s view the Approved Independent Auditor 
acts inconsistently with the provisions of this Undertaking and/or the Approved 
Terms of Appointment or the Approved Independent Auditor fails to perform their 
role to an adequate standard. 
Notification of key dates and ACCC requests for information 
  
9.1 
9.2 
9.3 
Sigma must notify the ACCC and the Approved Independent Auditor in writing of: 
(a) 
the anticipated date of the Control Date, at least five (5) Business Days 
before that date; and 
(b) 
the occurrence of the Control Date, within one Business Day of that date. 
The ACCC may direct Sigma in respect of its compliance with this Undertaking 
to, and Sigma must: 
(a) 
furnish information to the ACCC in the time and in the form requested by the 
ACCC: 
(b) 
produce documents and materials to the ACCC within Sigma's custody, 
power or control in the time and in the form requested by the ACCC; and/or 
(c) 
attend the ACCC ata time and place appointed by the ACCC to answer any 
questions the ACCC (its Commissioners, its staff or its agents) may have. 
Any direction made by the ACCC under clause 9.2 will be notified to Sigma, in 
accordance with clause 16.2. 
12


9.4 
9.5 
9.6 
9.7 
9.8 
10. 
In respect of Sigma's compliance with this Undertaking or an Approved 
Independent Auditor's compliance with its Approved Terms of Appointment, the 
ACCC may request the Approved Independent Auditor to: 
(a) 
furnish information to the ACCC in the time and in the form requested by the 
ACCC; 
(b) 
produce documents and materials to the ACCC within the Approved 
Independent Auditor's custody, power or control in the time and in the form 
requested by the ACCC; and/or 
(c) 
attend the ACCC ata time and place appointed by the ACCC to answer any 
questions the ACCC (its Commissioners, its staff or its agents) may have. 
Sigma will use its best endeavours to ensure that the Approved Independent 
Auditor complies with any request from the ACCC in accordance with clause 9.4. 
Information furnished, documents and material produced or information given in 
response to any request or direction from the ACCC under this clause 9 may be 
used by the ACCC for any purpose consistent with the exercise of its statutory 
duties. 
The ACCC may in its discretion: 
(a) 
advise the Approved Independent Auditor of any request made by it under 
this clause 9; and/or 
(b) 
provide copies to the Approved Independent Auditor of any information 
furnished, documents and material produced or information given to it under 
this clause 9. 
Nothing in this clause 9 requires the provision of information or documents in 
respect of which Sigma has a claim of legal professional or other privilege. 
Disclosure of this Undertaking 
  
10.1 
11. 
Sigma acknowledges that the ACCC may: 
(a) 
make this Undertaking publicly available; 
(b) 
publish this Undertaking on its Public Section 87B Undertakings Register 
and Public Mergers Register; and 
(c) 
from time to time publicly refer to this Undertaking. 
Obligation to procure 
  
Where the performance of an obligation under this Undertaking requires a 
Related Body Corporate of Sigma to take or refrain from taking some action, 
Sigma will procure that Related Body Corporate to take or refrain from taking that 
action. 
13


12. 
Cessation of Ongoing Obligations 
  
Revocation 
12.1 
The ACCC may, at any time, revoke its acceptance of this Undertaking if the 
ACCC becomes aware that any information provided to it was incorrect, 
inaccurate or misleading. Such a revocation must be express and in writing. 
Waiver 
12.2 
The ACCC may, at any time, waive any of the obligations contained in this 
Undertaking. Such a waiver must be express and in writing. 
Extension 
12.3. 
The ACCC may, at any time, extend the date by which any of the obligations in 
this Undertaking is to be satisfied. Such an extension must be express and in 
writing. 
Survival 
12.4 
Unless and until this Undertaking is withdrawn in accordance with s 87B(2) of the 
Act, clauses 1,2,3,8,9,10,11,12,13,14, 15, 16, 17, and Schedules 
1 and 3 survive 
completion of the obligations in clauses 4,5,6 and 7 as applicable. 
13. 
No Derogation 
  
13.1 
This Undertaking does not prevent the ACCC from taking enforcement action at 
any time whether during or after the period of this Undertaking in respect of any 
breach by Sigma of any term of this Undertaking. 
13.2 
Nothing in this Undertaking is intended to restrict the right of the ACCC to take 
action under the Act for penalties or other remedies in the event that Sigma does 
not fully implement and/or perform its obligations under this Undertaking or in 
any other event where the ACCC decides to take action under the Act for 
penalties or other remedies. 
14. 
Change of Control 
  
14.1 
In the event that 
a Change of Control is reasonably expected to occur, Sigma 
must: 
(a) 
notify the ACCC of this expectation as soon as practicable; and 
(b) 
only implement a Change of Control to another person or entity if that 
person or entity has given a section 87B undertaking to the ACCC that 
requires it to comply with the same obligations as are imposed on Sigma 
pursuant to this Undertaking, or on terms that are otherwise acceptable to 
the ACCC, unless the ACCC has notified Sigma in writing that a section 87B 
undertaking under this clause is not required. 
15. 
Costs 
  
15.1. 
Sigma must pay all of its own costs incurred in relation to this Undertaking. 
14


16. 
Notices 
  
Giving Notices 
16.1 
16.2 
16.3 
16.4 
Any notice or communication to the ACCC pursuant to this Undertaking must be 
sent to: 
Email address: 
mergers@accc.gov.au 
Attention: Executive General Manager 
Merger, Exemptions & Digital Division 
With a copy sentto: 
mergersru@accc.gov.au 
Attention: Director, Remedies Unit 
Policy, Coordination 
& Remedies Branch 
Merger, Exemptions & Digital Division 
Any notice or communication to Sigma pursuant to this Undertaking must be sent 
to: 
Name: 
Kara McGowan, General Counsel & Company Secretary 
Address: 
Level 6, 2125 Dandenong Road, Clayton, VIC 3168 
Email Address: 
Kara.McGowan@sigmahealthcare.com.au 
With a copy sent to (if applicable): 
Name: 
Gilbert + Tobin 
Address: 
L35, Tower Two, International Towers Sydney, 200 Barangaroo 
Avenue, Barangaroo NSW 2000 
Email Address: 
EAvery@gtlaw.com.au 
Fax number: 
+61 2 9263 4111 
Attention: 
Elizabeth Avery 
If sent by post, notices are taken to be received three Business Days after 
posting (or seven Business Days after posting if sent to or from a place outside 
Australia). 
If sent by email, notices are taken to be received at the time shown in the email 
as the time the email was sent. 
Change of contact details 
16.5 
16.6 
Sigma must notify the ACCC of a change to its contact details within three 
Business Days. 
Any notice or communication will be sent to the most recently advised contact 
details and subject to clauses 16.3 and 16.4, will be taken to be received. 
15


17. 
Defined terms and interpretation 
  
Definitions in the Dictionary 
17.1. 
Aterm or expression starting with a capital letter: 
(a) 
which is defined in the Dictionary in Part 1 of Schedule 
1 (Dictionary), has 
the meaning given to it in the Dictionary; or 
(b) 
which is defined in the Corporations Act, but is not defined in the Dictionary, 
has the meaning given to it in the Corporations Act. 
Interpretation 
17.2. 
Part 2 of Schedule 1 sets out rules of interpretation for this Undertaking. 
16


Executed as an Undertaking 
Executed by Sigma Healthcare Limited (ACN 088 417 403) pursuant to section 127(1) of 
the Corporations Act 2001 by: 
  
VU bore — 
  
  
  
Signature of director 
Signature of a direeter/company secretary 
(delete as appropriate) 
  
AMIS APD Meo 
Vi kesh, 
Kara McGowan 
  
Name of director (print) 
Name of eHreeter/company secretary (print) 
  
  
  
 
Date &7 VA Mh ff 202 
 
1/11/2024 
Date 
 
 
  
Accepted by the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission pursuant 
to section 87B of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 
(Cth) on: 
  
  
Date 
and signed on behalf of the Commission: 
  
Chair 
  
Date 
17
6 November 2024
6 November 2024


  
Schedule 1 
— Dictionary and interpretation 
1. 
Dictionary 
  
ACCC means the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission. 
Act means the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 
(Cth). 
Agreements means any contract, arrangement or understanding, including any contract, 
arrangement or understanding to renew, amend, vary or extend any contract, 
arrangement or understanding. 
Approved Audit Plan means the plan approved by the ACCC in accordance with the 
terms of this Undertaking, by which the Approved Independent Auditor will audit and 
report upon compliance with this Undertaking. 
Approved Independent Auditor means the person approved by the ACCC and 
appointed under clause 8 
of this Undertaking. 
Approved Sigma Personnel means Sigma personnel who the Independent Auditor has 
certified are not Ring-Fenced Personnel and who are appointed by the Independent 
Auditor to carry out the functions described in clause 6 of this Undertaking. 
Approved Terms of Appointment means the terms of appointment for the Approved 
Independent Auditor, as approved by the ACCC in accordance with the terms of this 
Undertaking. 
Associated Entity has the meaning given by section 50AAA of the Corporations Act. 
Audit Report has the meaning given to it in clause 8.12 of this Undertaking. 
Business Day means a day other than a Saturday or Sunday on which banks are open 
for business generally in the Australian Capital Territory. 
Buying Group Agreement means an agreement between Sigma and an entity, group or 
representative acting on behalf of, or for the benefit of, a collective of pharmacies, and 
includes head office level banner group and buying group agreements that provide for 
the terms on which Sigma will wholesale products to those pharmacies and which may 
also provide benefits or incentives to the entity, group or representative. 
Buying Group Customer means: 
e 
aSigma customer with a PriceSave Wholesale Trading Terms Supply 
Agreement, and any related agreement or arrangement; or 
e 
anentity, group or representative with 
a Buying Group Agreement. 
Change of Control means: 
e 
the assignment or other transfer of the legal or beneficial ownership of some 
or all of the share capital of Sigma to any other person or entity that may 
impact compliance with this Undertaking in its entirety; or 
e 
the sale or transfer of any assets necessary, or which may be necessary, to 
enable Sigma to continue to comply with this Undertaking in its entirety. 
Chemist Warehouse means CW Group Holdings Limited (ABN 83 635 851 839). 
18


Chemist Warehouse Franchisee means a franchisee operating under the brand 
Chemist Warehouse or MyChemist. 
Commencement Date means the date described in clause 3.1 of this Undertaking. 
Confidential Information has the meaning given to it in clause 6.8 of this Undertaking. 
Contributions means any monetary contributions or incentives paid to an Existing 
Franchisee, Existing Buying Group Customer or Existing Wholesale Customer by Sigma 
pursuant to a Franchise Agreement, Supply Agreement or other agreement including but 
not limited to any incentives, fee relief, rebates, cash payments or any other financial 
contributions made or entitled to under a Franchise Agreement, Supply Agreement or 
other agreement, but excludes Outstanding Monies. 
Control Date means the date on which the Proposed Acquisition is completed. 
Corporations Act means the Corporations Act 20017 (Cth). 
CSO Distributor has the meaning in clause 1.1 of Sigma’s CSO Deed. 
CSO Funding Pool Arrangements means the arrangements established by the 
Commonwealth on 
1 July 2006 under which eligible entities receive payments for 
supplying pharmaceutical benefits scheme medicines to community pharmacies. 
De-identified Data has the meaning given in clause 6.2(b). 
Dispute means a dispute detailed in a Dispute Notice under Schedule 3, clause 2.2(a) 
Dispute Applicant means the party raising a dispute under clause 5.9. 
Dispute Notice means a notice of dispute lodged with Sigma in accordance with 
Schedule 3, clause 2.1. 
Dispute Resolution Process means the process set out in Schedule 3. 
Entities Connected has the meaning given by section 64B of the Corporations Act. 
Establishment Audit has the meaning given to it in clause 8.13(a) of this Undertaking. 
Existing Buying Group Customer means a Buying Group Customer who signed or 
entered into their PriceSave Wholesale Trading Terms Supply Agreement or Buying 
Group Agreement prior to 1 July 2024. 
Existing Franchisee means a Franchisee with a Franchise Agreement who signed or 
entered into their Franchise Agreement prior to 
1 July 2024. 
Existing Wholesale Customer means a Wholesale Customer with 
a Supply Agreement 
who signed or entered into their Supply Agreement prior to 
1 July 2024. 
Exiting Customer has the meaning given in clause 6.1 of this Undertaking. 
Franchise Agreement means any of the following agreements, including any variation, 
with Sigma (or any novated or transferred agreements to Sigma): 
e 
anAmcal Franchise Agreement; 
e 
a Discount Drug Stores Franchise Agreement; 
e 
a Discount Drug Store Contribution Agreement; 
19


a Guardian Franchise Agreement; 
a PharmaSave Franchise Agreement; 
an Incentive Agreement; 
Best Practice Guidelines; 
Ethical Partnership Program Terms; 
Customer Loyalty Program Terms; and 
Amcal Private Label Trading Terms. 
Franchisee means a franchise operating under a Sigma banner brand franchise 
arrangement but excludes Chemist Warehouse Franchisees. 
Outstanding Monies means any: 
e 
franchise fee, monthly operations fee, monthly catalogue fee or any other fees 
or charges for services provided to the Franchisee under the terms of a 
Franchise Agreement or any other agreement or arrangement prior to the 
Termination Date; 
e 
any fees or charges accrued in relation to any products or services supplied to a 
Buying Group Customer or Wholesale Customer under a Supply Agreement or 
any other agreement or arrangement prior to the Termination Date; 
e 
any interest on outstanding amounts (if applicable) calculated in accordance 
with the terms of the Franchise Agreement, Supply Agreement or any other 
agreement or arrangement prior to the Termination Date; 
e 
any debt (plus interest, 
if applicable) payable to Sigma pursuant to any loan 
arrangement between Sigma and any Existing Franchisee, Existing Buying 
Group Customer or Existing Wholesale Customer who elects to terminate their 
Franchise Agreement or Supply Agreement within three (3) years of the Control 
Date in accordance with clause 5.1; 
e 
any amount payable on termination of 
a Supply Agreement between Sigma and 
a third party entered into in conjunction with the sale of shares by Sigma to the 
third party where a wholesaling term commitment was provided as part of 
consideration for the sale. 
Proposed Acquisition is defined in clause 2 of this Undertaking. 
Proposed Independent Auditor means a person named in a Proposed Independent 
Auditor Notice. 
Proposed Independent Auditor Notice has the meaning given to it in clause 8.2 of this 
Undertaking. 
Public Mergers Register means the ACCC’s public register of merger clearances, 
available at www.accc.gov.au. 
Public Section 87B Undertakings Register means the ACCC’s public register of 
section 87B undertakings, available at www.accc.gov.au. 
Related Bodies Corporate has the meaning given to it by section 50 of the Corporations 
Act. 
Related Entities has the meaning given to it by section 9 of the Corporations Act. 
Related Parties has the meaning given to it by section 228 of the Corporations Act. 
Ring-Fenced Personnel has the meaning given in clause 6.10 of this Undertaking. 
Sigma means the entity referred to in clause 1.1 of this Undertaking. 
20


Sigma Information Compliance Officer means the person referred to in clause 6.7 of 
this Undertaking. 
Sigma’s CSO Deed means the Deed of Agreement between Sigma and the 
Commonwealth of Australia dated 29 March 2019, as amended or replaced from time to 
time, in relation to the CSO Funding Pool Arrangements. 
Subsidiary has the meaning given by section 9 of the Corporations Act. 
Supply Agreement means any agreement with a Wholesale Customer for wholesale 
supply of products, excluding Sigma’s pro forma Sigma Group Standard Terms and 
Conditions of Supply. 
For the avoidance of doubt, Supply Agreement includes PriceSave 
Wholesale Trading Terms Agreements, Buying Group Agreement, Amcal Sigma Connect 
Trading Terms, Discount Drug Stores Sigma Connect Trading Terms, and Pharmasave 
Sigma Connect Trading Terms and any negotiated wholesale supply agreement with a 
Wholesale Customer. 
Termination Date means the date on which termination by an Existing Franchisee, 
Existing Buying Group Customer or Existing Wholesale Customer of its Franchise 
Agreement or Supply Agreement becomes effective. 
Undertaking is a reference to all provisions of this document, including its schedules and 
as varied from time to time under section 87B of the Act. 
Wholesale Customer means a wholesale pharmacy customer or group with a current 
Sigma trading account but excludes Chemist Warehouse Franchisees. 
2. 
Interpretation 
  
2.1 
In the interpretation of this Undertaking, the following provisions apply unless the 
context otherwise requires: 
(a) 
areference to this Undertaking includes all of the provisions of this 
document including its schedules; 
(b) 
headings are inserted for convenience only and do not affect the 
interpretation of this Undertaking; 
(c) 
if the day on which any act, matter or thing is to be done under this 
Undertaking is not a Business Day, the act, matter or thing must be done on 
the next Business Day; 
(d) 
areference in this Undertaking to any law, legislation or legislative provision 
includes any statutory modification, amendment or re-enactment, and any 
subordinate legislation or regulations issued under that legislation or 
legislative provision; 
(e) 
areference in this Undertaking to any company includes its Related Bodies 
Corporate; 
(f) 
areference in this Undertaking to any agreement or document is to that 
agreement or document as amended, novated, supplemented or replaced; 
(g) 
areference to a clause, part, schedule or attachment is a reference to a 
clause, part, schedule or attachment of or to this Undertaking; 
21


(h) 
an expression importing a natural person includes any company, trust, 
partnership, joint venture, association, body corporate or governmental 
agency; 
(i) 
where a word or phrase is given a defined meaning, another part of speech 
or other grammatical form in respect of that word or phrase has a 
corresponding meaning; 
(j) 
_aword which denotes the singular also denotes the plural, 
a word which 
denotes the plural also denotes the singular. 
(k) 
areference to the words 'such as’, ‘including’, ‘particularly’ and similar 
expressions is to be construed without limitation; 
(1) 
aconstruction that would promote the purpose - or object - underlying the 
Undertaking (whether expressly stated or not) will be preferred to a 
construction that would not promote that purpose or object; 
(m) 
material not forming part of this Undertaking may be considered to: 
(i) 
confirm the meaning of a clause is the ordinary meaning conveyed by 
the text of the clause, taking into account its context in the Undertaking 
and the competition concerns intended to be addressed by the 
Undertaking and the clause in question; or 
(ii) 
determine the meaning of the clause when the ordinary meaning 
conveyed by the text of the clause, taking into account its context in the 
Undertaking and the purpose or object underlying the Undertaking, 
leads to a result that does not promote the purpose or object underlying 
the Undertaking: 
(n) 
in determining whether consideration should be given to any material in 
accordance with paragraph (m), or in considering any weight to be given to 
any such material, regard must be had, in addition to any other relevant 
matters, to the: 
(i) 
effect that reliance on the ordinary meaning conveyed by the text of the 
clause would, have (taking into account its context in the Undertaking 
and whether that meaning promotes the purpose or object of the 
Undertaking); and 
(ii) 
need to ensure that the result of the Undertaking is to completely 
address any ACCC competition concerns; 
(0) 
the ACCC may authorise the ACCC Mergers Review Committee, 
a member 
of the ACCC or a member of the ACCC staff, to exercise a decision making 
function under this Undertaking on its behalf and that authorisation may be 
subject to any conditions which the ACCC may impose; 
(p) 
in performing its obligations under this Undertaking, Sigma will do everything 
reasonably within its power to ensure that its performance of those 
obligations is done in 
a manner which is consistent with promoting the 
purpose and object of this Undertaking; 
(q) 
areference to: 
(i) 
athing (including, but not limited to, 
a chose in action or other right) 
includes a part of that thing; 
22


(ii) 
a party includes its successors and permitted assigns; and 
(iii) 
a monetary amount is in Australian dollars. 
23


  
Schedule 2. 
— Proposed Independent Auditor 
Appointment Form 
Please note that it is an offence under s137.1 of the Criminal Code Act 1995 (Cth) to give 
information to 
a Commonwealth entity knowing that the information is false or misleading 
or omits any matter or thing without which the information is misleading. 
1. 
Method of Delivery to the ACCC 
  
  
  
  
The completed form with requested documents attached may be provided to the ACCC 
using the following method: 
Email 
Subject line: 
| Proposed Independent Auditor Notice — Undertaking to the ACCC given 
under section 87B of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth) by 
Sigma Healthcare Limited (ACN 088 417 403) 
Address: 
mergers@accc.gov.au 
Attention: 
Executive General Manager — Mergers, Exemptions & Digital Division 
With an email copy sent to: 
Address: 
mergersru@accc.gov.au 
Attention: 
Director, Remedies Unit - Policy, Coordination 
& Remedies Branch, 
Mergers, Exemptions & Digital Division 
2. 
Information Required 
  
The ACCC requires the following information in order to assess a proposed Independent 
Auditor. 
2.1. 
Proposed Independent Auditor details: 
(a) 
the name of the Proposed Independent Auditor; and 
(b) 
the name of the Proposed Independent Auditor's employer and contact 
details including: 
(i) 
Address; 
(ii) 
Contact name; 
(iii) 
Telephone number; 
(iv) Other contact details. 
2.2 
Asubmission containing the following information: 
(a) 
details of the Proposed Independent Auditor’s qualifications and experience 
relevant to his or her proposed role pursuant to the Undertaking; 
(b) 
the names of the owner(s) and the director(s) of the Proposed Independent 
Auditor's employer; 
24


2.3 
2.4 
(c) 
details of any of the following types of relationships between Sigma and the 
Proposed Independent Auditor or the Proposed Independent Auditor's 
employer or confirmation that no such relationship exists whether within 
Australia or outside of Australia: 
(i) 
(iii) 
(iv) 
(v) 
(viii) 
(ix) 
(x) 
Sigma and the Proposed Independent Auditor's employer are 
Associated Entities: 
Sigma is an Entity Connected with the Proposed Independent 
Auditor’s employer; 
The Proposed Independent Auditor’s employer is an Entity 
Connected with Sigma; 
Sigma and the Proposed Independent Auditor's employer are 
Related Entities; 
Sigma and the Proposed Independent Auditor’s employer are 
Related Parties; 
any Related Party, Related Entity or Entity Connected with Sigma is 
a Related Party, Related Entity or Entity Connected with the 
Proposed Independent Auditor; 
Sigma and the Proposed Independent Auditor or the Proposed 
Independent Auditor's employer have a contractual relationship or 
had one within the past three years, other than those attached to this 
form; 
the Proposed Independent Auditor's employer is a supplier of Sigma 
or has been in the past three years: 
Sigma is a supplier of the Proposed Independent Auditor's employer 
or has been in the past three years; and 
any other relationship between Sigma and the Proposed 
Independent Auditor or the Proposed Independent Auditor’s 
employer that allows one to affect the business decisions of the 
other; 
(d) 
details of any existing or past contractual relationships between the 
Proposed Independent Auditor or the Proposed Independent Auditor's 
employer and the ACCC within the past three years. 
A document outlining the terms of appointment for the Proposed Independent 
Auditor. This should identify the basis on which fees will be paid, including 
disclosure of any proposed performance-based fees. 
A finalised draft audit plan for the commitments in this Undertaking, in an editable 
format, drafted by the Proposed Independent Auditor and outlining (to the extent 
possible) the Proposed Independent Auditor's plans regarding the Establishment 
Audit and the Audit Report. 
25


  
Schedule 3 
— Dispute Resolution Process 
This Dispute Resolution Process is intended to: 
a) 
provide transparency on the dispute resolution process; and 
b) 
ensure the Independent Auditor oversees the process to resolve disputes 
brought by a Dispute Applicant, 
with respect to compliance with the terms of clause 5 of the Undertaking. 
1. 
Objective 
  
1.1. 
Sigma is committed to resolving any potential disputes proactively and 
constructively and in accordance with the terms of this Undertaking. 
1.2 
Sigma will use this Dispute Resolution Process to resolve any potential disputes 
arising with respect to clause 5 of the Undertaking. 
2. 
Raising a dispute 
  
2.1 
A Dispute Applicant who wishes to raise a dispute with Sigma with respect to 
clause 5 of the Undertaking (Dispute) must do so within six (6) months of 
providing notice of termination of their Franchise Agreement, Supply Agreement or 
Buying Group Agreement to Sigma by providing written notice to Sigma (Dispute 
Notice). 
2.2. 
The Dispute Notice must include details of: 
(a) 
the nature of the Dispute; 
(b) 
the outcome sought by the Dispute Applicant; 
(c) 
the action(s) on the part of Sigma which the Dispute Applicant believes will 
resolve the dispute. 
2.3 
By lodging a Dispute Notice, the Dispute Applicant agrees to comply with this 
Dispute Resolution Process. 
3. 
Negotiation 
  
3.1 
Within 7 Business Days of the Dispute Applicant providing Sigma with a Dispute 
Notice, representatives of each party must meet and undertake genuine and good 
faith negotiations with a view to resolving the dispute expeditiously by joint 
discussion. 
3.2 
_ 
If the Dispute is not resolved in accordance with clause 3.1 of this Schedule 3 
within 21 Business Days of the Dispute Applicant providing a Dispute Notice to 
Sigma then the dispute will be referred to adjudication by the Independent Auditor 
in accordance with clause 4. 
4. 
Adjudication 
  
4.1 
Adispute referred to adjudication by the Independent Auditor under cl 3.2 of this 
Schedule 3 will be conducted in accordance with the following provisions: 
26


4.2 
4.3 
44 
4.5 
46 
47 
4.8 
(a) 
The adjudication will be conducted in private within 10 Business Days of the 
appointment of the Independent Auditor; 
(b) 
The Independent Auditor must act as speedily as a proper consideration of 
the Dispute allows having regard to the need to carefully and quickly enquire 
into and resolve the Dispute; 
(c) 
The Independent Auditor will present its determination of the Dispute in draft 
form to Sigma and the Dispute Applicant within 10 Business Days and allow 
them 5 Business Days to comment before making a 
final determination; 
(d) 
The Independent Auditor will hand down a 
final determination in writing 
which includes its reasons for making the determination and findings within 
10 Business Days; 
(e) 
any determination by the Independent Auditor will be confidential. 
Sigma and the Dispute Applicant must provide the Independent Auditor with all 
relevant information required by the Independent Auditor to resolve the Dispute 
within the timeframes prescribed by this Dispute Resolution Process. Such 
information may include (but is not limited to) information needed for the 
calculation of Outstanding Monies and Contributions, communications with the 
Dispute Applicant, and all relevant contracts and agreements between Sigma and 
the Dispute Applicant. 
For the avoidance of doubt matters that are not with respect to compliance with the 
terms of clause 5 of this Undertaking are not within the scope of this Dispute 
Resolution Process. 
The Independent Auditor may at any time terminate an adjudication (without 
making a determination) and the subject matter of the Dispute Notice shall be 
regarded as resolved, 
if he or she thinks that: 
(a) 
the notification of the Dispute is vexatious; 
(b) 
the subject matter of the Dispute is trivial, misconceived or lacking in 
substance; or 
(c) 
the Dispute Applicant has not engaged in negotiations in good faith. 
In deciding a Dispute, the Independent Auditor will have regard to the objectives of 
the Undertaking. 
in deciding a Dispute, the Independent Auditor must not, without the consent of 
Sigma and the Dispute Applicant: 
(a) 
make a determination which relates to matters which were not specified in 
the Dispute Notice; or 
(b) 
allow any other party to join or intervene in the adjudication process. 
The Independent Auditor may make any determination or direction in relation to 
the Dispute that it considers appropriate. 
The Independent Auditor must include a copy of their determination with the next 
Audit Report in accordance with Clause 8.12 of this Undertaking. 
27
