Page 1 of 29 
 
Statement of Issues 
13 June 2024 
 Sigma Healthcare Limited – proposed acquisition of 
CW Group Holdings Limited 
Purpose 
1. 
Sigma Healthcare Limited (Sigma) has entered a merger implementation 
agreement with CW Group Holdings Limited (Chemist Warehouse).  
2. 
This Statement of Issues: 
• 
gives the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission’s (ACCC) 
preliminary views on competition issues arising from the proposed 
acquisition,  
• 
identifies areas of further inquiry, and 
• 
invites interested parties to submit comments and information to assist the 
ACCC’s assessment of the issues. 
3. 
Statements of Issues do not refer to confidential information provided by the 
parties or other market participants and therefore may not fully articulate the 
ACCC’s preliminary position. 
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views 
4. 
In considering the proposed acquisition, the ACCC applies the legal test set out 
in section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the CCA). In general 
terms, section 50 prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to 
have the effect, of substantially lessening competition in any market. 
5. 
The ACCC divides its preliminary views into three categories, 'issues of concern', 
'issues that may raise concerns' and ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’. In this 
Statement of Issues there are five ‘issues that may raise concerns’.   
Issues that may raise concerns 
6. 
Structural market change may raise barriers to entry and expansion. The 
ACCC is concerned that, in the medium to long term, the structural change (due 
to the vertical integration caused by this acquisition) may make entry and 


Sigma – proposed acquisition of Chemist Warehouse 
 
Page 2 of 29 
expansion at a single level in the supply chain less viable. This has the potential 
to raise barriers to entry and significantly alter competitive dynamics in the 
industry. The ACCC is considering whether this may constitute a substantial 
lessening of competition. The vertical integration due to the acquisition would sit 
alongside the growth of pharmacy banner groups, which has increased 
centralised control or influence over individual pharmacies. Chemist Warehouse 
appears to exert significant control or influence over its banner stores, including 
through high levels of executive ownership of Chemist Warehouse stores. The 
ACCC recognises that regulation of pharmacy ownership lessens the ability of 
rivals to replicate Chemist Warehouse's approach and will closely consider 
potential changes in the ability of non-vertically integrated rivals to effectively 
compete in its assessment of the proposed acquisition. If this ability is weakened 
or barriers are raised, the proposed acquisition may result in a substantial 
lessening of competition.  
7. 
Reduction in competition in pharmacy retailing. The ACCC’s preliminary 
view is that the proposed acquisition may substantially lessen competition in 
pharmacy retailing because it could lessen the competitive constraint Chemist 
Warehouse and Sigma banner stores impose on each other, which may lead to 
increased prices for the goods and services provided in pharmacies and/or 
reduced service quality. It may also remove Sigma’s differentiated (from Chemist 
Warehouse) product and service offering from the market and lessen pharmacy 
retailing competition in certain local markets.  
8. 
Foreclosure of retail pharmacies. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the 
proposed acquisition may lead to a substantial lessening of competition in 
pharmacy retailing by way of partial or full foreclosure of pharmacies currently 
supplied by Sigma. Presently, Sigma is incentivised to maximise profit, which 
due to the importance of scale efficiencies means it seeks to maximise 
wholesale sales, including to pharmacies outside its own banners. The ACCC is 
considering the extent to which Sigma’s incentives may change post-acquisition 
(i.e., when Chemist Warehouse becomes one of its banners). In particular, 
whether the merged entity may have the ability and incentive to worsen terms to 
non-Chemist Warehouse banner pharmacies in order to maximise profit through 
the Chemist Warehouse banner group, by for example offering less favourable 
price and supply terms and so raising their costs and rendering them less 
competitive, ultimately resulting in a substantial lessening of competition in retail 
pharmacy market/s. 
9. 
Access to and use of Sigma-supplied independent pharmacies’ data, 
reducing retail pharmacy competition. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that 
the proposed merger may substantially lessen competition in pharmacy retailing 
as it may enable Chemist Warehouse to access and use commercially sensitive 
data of pharmacies supplied by Sigma in a way that damages competition. 
Sigma may use insights from the data to target rival pharmacies and/or pre-empt 
and undermine their competitive actions. Chemist Warehouse’s access to 
commercially sensitive data may also reduce the options of rival pharmacies 
outside the Sigma wholesale network, as they may limit trading with the merged 
entity due to data concerns. 
10. 
Foreclosure of rival suppliers. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the 
proposed acquisition may foreclose rival suppliers’ of pharmacy products access 
to customers. The ACCC understands that for some suppliers, Sigma and 
Chemist Warehouse’s wholesale acquisition volumes are considered a 


Sigma – proposed acquisition of Chemist Warehouse 
 
Page 3 of 29 
significant and necessary supply channel. The ACCC is considering the 
competitive effects of the acquisition on the upstream supply of pharmacy 
products, including considering the implications for suppliers who compete (or 
would like to compete) with Sigma and Chemist Warehouse’s owned-label and 
private label products, given the merged entity’s significant supply channel post-
acquisition. This concern may increase if Chemist Warehouse and Sigma 
expand their portfolios of owned-label and private label products.    
Making a submission 
11. 
The ACCC invites submissions from interested parties, particularly on the 
following key issues: 
• 
the sector-wide impacts arising from the proposed acquisition  
• 
likelihood the proposed acquisition would increase prices and/or reduce 
service quality in retail pharmacies  
• 
the extent to which the proposed acquisition increases Sigma’s ability and 
incentive to engage in discriminatory and/or self-preferencing conduct and 
whether it is likely such conduct would result in a substantial lessening of 
competition 
• 
the level of constraint on Sigma from alternative wholesalers, and their 
ability to service Sigma banner pharmacies and other pharmacies currently 
supplied by Sigma  
• 
barriers to entry and expansion for retail pharmacies, particularly for 
independent pharmacies 
• 
the extent to which the proposed acquisition may enable Chemist 
Warehouse to access and use commercially sensitive data of independent 
pharmacies supplied by Sigma to advantage the Chemist Warehouse 
pharmacies, weakening competition.   
12. 
Interested parties should provide submissions by 5pm on 27 June 2024. 
Responses may be emailed to SigmaCWG@accc.gov.au with the title: 
Submission re: Sigma/Chemist Warehouse. If you would like to discuss the 
matter with ACCC staff or have any questions about this Statement of Issues, 
please email SigmaCWG@accc.gov.au to arrange a time.  
13. 
The ACCC anticipates making a final decision on 5 September 2024, however, 
this timeline can change. To keep up with possible timing changes and to find 
relevant documents, interested parties should visit the Mergers Register on the 
ACCC's website at www.accc.gov.au/publicregisters/mergers-registers/public-
informal-merger-reviews. 
Confidentiality of submissions 
14. 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. The 
ACCC will not disclose submissions to third parties (except its 
advisors/consultants) unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of 
information legislation or during court proceedings) or in accordance with 
s155AAA of the CCA. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 


Sigma – proposed acquisition of Chemist Warehouse 
 
Page 4 of 29 
information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where possible so that you may 
have an opportunity to be heard. Therefore, please identify any confidential 
information that is provided to the ACCC. The ACCC’s Informal Merger Review 
Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’ 
15. 
A Statement of Issues is not a final decision about a proposed acquisition. A 
Statement of Issues outlines the ACCC’s preliminary views and identifies further 
lines of inquiry. 
16. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 
The parties  
The acquirer: Sigma 
17. 
Sigma is an ASX-listed wholesaler and distributor of prescription medicines 
(including Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS) prescriptions), over the 
counter (OTC)1 and front of store (FOS) products to over 4,000 community 
pharmacies nationally.  
18. 
Sigma’s core business activities include: 
• 
full-line wholesale and distribution of prescription medicines, OTC products 
and FOS products to both its franchisees and independent pharmacies  
• 
providing brand and support services to 395 community pharmacies 
operating as franchisees under Sigma banners:  
 
• 
operating a buying group – the PriceSave program – for approximately 445 
independent pharmacies 
• 
supplying private label products under the brands ‘Pharmacy Care’, Beauty 
Theory’ and ‘Amcal Plus’. 
19. 
Sigma also owns and operates MPS Connect Pty Ltd which offers medication 
packing services and management solutions to pharmacies and aged care 
providers. Sigma holds 51% of the shares in NostraData Pty Ltd which supplies 
 
 
1 Pharmacy and pharmacist only medicines listed in Schedules 2 and 3 of the Standard for the Uniform Scheduling of 
Medicines and Poisons. 


Sigma – proposed acquisition of Chemist Warehouse 
 
Page 5 of 29 
technology and data analytics solutions to pharmacies, wholesalers and 
manufacturers. 
Figure 1: Overview of Sigma’s core operations 
 
The target: Chemist Warehouse 
20. 
Chemist Warehouse is an unlisted Australian public company. It is a franchisor 
of pharmacies and retail stores under the following banners:  
 
21. 
It has approximately 550 pharmacies under the Chemist Warehouse and 
MyChemist banners.  
22. 
Chemist Warehouse executives also have direct ownership interests in a large 
number of Chemist Warehouse stores.   
23. 
Chemist Warehouse provides brand and support services to its franchisee 
pharmacies, including but not limited to:  
• 
media, advertising, marketing, licensing and financial support services  
• 
supply of FOS and OTC products including Chemist Warehouse Group 
owned, private label and exclusive consumer brands  
• 
support services such as negotiating supply terms on behalf of franchisees 
with suppliers and manufacturers to distribute FOS and OTC products. 


Sigma – proposed acquisition of Chemist Warehouse 
 
Page 6 of 29 
24. 
Chemist Warehouse also owns private label product brands which it sells online 
and supplies to its franchisees. These include Wagner, Bambi Mini, Barely, 
Bondi Protein Co, Inc, and Goat. 
25. 
Chemist Warehouse operates six distribution centres to support the distribution 
of FOS and OTC products to its franchisees. Chemist Warehouse currently 
obtains wholesale supply of certain FOS products from Sigma and prescription 
medicines from EBOS. 
Figure 2: Overview of Chemist Warehouse’s core operations 
 
Other industry participants 
26. 
Other participants in the pharmaceutical industry in Australia include:  
• 
retail pharmacies including independent community pharmacies 
• 
wholesalers  
• 
pharmaceutical, OTC and FOS manufacturers 
• 
banner groups  
• 
buying groups  
• 
friendly society pharmacies (community pharmacies owned by not-for-profit 
Friendly Societies rather than pharmacists). 


Sigma – proposed acquisition of Chemist Warehouse 
 
Page 7 of 29 
Community (or retail) pharmacies 
27. 
There are approximately 6,000 community pharmacies in Australia. Each of 
these are owned and operated by a registered pharmacist or, in some 
jurisdictions, the relative of a registered pharmacist.  
28. 
Around 60% of Australia’s 6,000 pharmacy stores are part of a banner group, 
with the remainder being independents. The ACCC estimates that around two-
thirds of all pharmacies are associated with a banner or buying group operated 
by EBOS (Symbion), Wesfarmers (API), Sigma, Chemist Warehouse or 
Independent Pharmacies of Australia Group (IPA Group) (formerly Platform).  
Wholesalers  
29. 
Wholesalers are typically either full-line or short-line wholesalers: 
• 
Full-line wholesalers distribute the majority of pharmaceutical, healthcare 
and other products that pharmacies, hospitals and other health-related 
facilities and businesses may require. There are four national full-line 
wholesalers in Australia (Sigma, API, EBOS and CH2) and two state-
based full-line wholesalers (NPD and Barretts). 
• 
Short-line wholesalers provide a more limited range and service than full-
line wholesalers. Generally, they deal in a narrower product range than full-
line wholesalers, usually high-volume products and may target particular 
sectors. Pharmacies tend to use short-line wholesalers to take advantage 
of lower pricing on particular products. 
30. 
Pharmacies tend to have a first-line wholesaler from whom they acquire a larger 
proportion of their PBS and other products to minimise transaction costs and 
maximise discounts and volume rebates. In addition to a first line supplier, they 
also tend to have a second-line wholesaler and sometimes a third. 
31. 
In addition to Sigma, the two leading full-line wholesalers are:  
• 
EBOS (Symbion), which operates 11 warehouses around Australia 
servicing over 4,000 community pharmacy customers and 1,300 hospital 
customers. EBOS also operates a number of pharmacy banners including 
TerryWhite Chemmart, healthSAVE, Ventura Health (which itself includes 
six brands, namely, Cincotta Discount Chemist, Mega Save Chemist, Max 
Value Pharmacy, BetterBuy Pharmacy and MyMedical Pharmacy), and 
Good Price Pharmacy Warehouse.  
• 
Wesfarmers (API), which operates seven distribution centres across 
Australia. API operates the following pharmacy banners: Priceline 
Pharmacy, Soul Pattinson Chemist and Pharmacist Advice. API also owns 
the Priceline Health and Beauty (non-pharmacy) retail stores. 
Banner and buying groups 
32. 
Banner groups are groups of stores owned by individual pharmacists that 
operate under the same brand (i.e., banner). Banner groups can be, but are not 
necessarily, franchise systems. Banner groups are formed to provide operational 
support to pharmacies and to undertake joint advertising and promotions. 


Sigma – proposed acquisition of Chemist Warehouse 
 
Page 8 of 29 
Banner group owners provide services to their banner group stores which may 
include the wholesale supply of goods, management of external suppliers, 
pricing systems and methodology, and leasing-related services.  
33. 
Buying groups are groups formed and owned generally by wholesalers for the 
purposes of negotiating the cost of medicines and products with other 
wholesalers or manufacturers. Membership in these groups is offered to 
pharmacies.  
34. 
The key distinction between buying and banner groups is that pharmacies in a 
buying group are (generally) independent pharmacies rather than operating 
under the same banner as each other. Banner group owners therefore have a 
greater degree of influence/control over banner group pharmacies than buying 
group owners have over the independent pharmacies that are part of a buying 
group.  
35. 
Different banner groups and buying groups can be owned by the same entity, 
and the same entity may operate multiple groups. For example, Amcal, Discount 
Drug Stores, Pharmasave and Guardian are all Sigma banner groups. Sigma 
also owns the PriceSave buying group, which is offered to independent 
pharmacies.  
Suppliers and manufacturers 
36. 
Suppliers and manufacturers in the pharmaceutical industry include:  
• 
research-based pharmaceutical companies, which invest in research, 
development and manufacturing of new medicines 
• 
generic pharmaceutical companies, which manufacture and sell off-patent 
medicines (‘generic medicines’) once a medicine loses patent protection 
• 
consumer medicines companies, which may be a division of a 
pharmaceutical company or a standalone company, and generally produce 
non-prescription products that are available at pharmacies like cough 
medicine and pain killers. Consumer medicines are also referred to as self-
medication or OTC medicines 
• 
complementary medicines companies (also known as ‘traditional’ or 
‘alternative’ medicines) include vitamin, mineral, nutritional supplement, 
herbal, aromatherapy and homoeopathic products 
• 
other manufacturing companies that supply products typically sold in retail 
pharmacies, such as manufacturers of beauty and cosmetic products.


Sigma – proposed acquisition of Chemist Warehouse 
 
Page 9 of 29 
Figure 3: Overview of pharmacy supply chain 
 


Sigma – proposed acquisition of Chemist Warehouse 
 
Page 10 of 29 
Industry regulation  
37. 
The retail pharmacy industry in Australia is comprised of community pharmacies 
that dispense scheduled prescription medicines and controlled drugs, scheduled 
non-prescription medicines, unscheduled products, and pharmacy professional 
services and advice. 
38. 
The pharmacy industry is subject to a number of rules, regulations and 
legislative requirements. 
Therapeutic Goods Act 1989 (TGA Act) and the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme 
(PBS) 
39. 
The supply of prescriptions medicines in Australia is highly regulated and subject 
to the Therapeutic Goods Act 1989 (TGA Act) and the Pharmaceutical Benefits 
Scheme2. The Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA) classifies medicines 
into Schedules, which are recorded in the Standard for the Uniform Scheduling 
of Medicines and Poisons3 (SUSMP), also known as the Poisons Standard. 
Through the PBS, broadly speaking, the Government effectively sets the prices 
for PBS medicines at several points of the supply chain and regulates how PBS 
medicines are distributed, dispensed, and sold.  
 
Community Service Obligations (CSO) Funding Pool  
40. 
The CSO Funding Pool arrangements were established on 1 July 2006 and 
continue under the Eighth Community Pharmacy Agreement (8CPA).4  
41. 
Some wholesalers of PBS medicines which have entered into agreements with 
the Commonwealth Government (CSO Deed) are eligible to receive funding from 
 
 
2 See National Health Act 1953 Pt VII. 
3 See Therapeutic Goods Act 1989 para 52D(2)(b). 
4 National Health Act 1953 s 98BAA. 
 
Medicines and 
products  
Definition  
PBS 
Scheduled PBS 
prescription 
medicines and 
controlled drugs  
Prescription only medicines listed in Schedules 4 and 8 of the 
SUSMP which can only be obtained with a prescription from 
an authorised medical practitioner.  
OTC 
Scheduled non-
prescription 
medicines  
Pharmacy and pharmacist only medicines listed in Schedules 
2 and 3 of the SUSMP and include non-prescription medicines 
available on the shelf in pharmacies but not in other retail 
outlets (at least in certain dosages/pack sizes), and 
pharmacist only medicines behind the counter at pharmacies.  
FOS 
Unscheduled 
medicines and 
products  
Includes beauty and cosmetics, health and wellness, toiletries, 
baby and infant care, and vitamins and supplements. 
Unscheduled medicines and products can be sold by non-
pharmacy retailers. 


Sigma – proposed acquisition of Chemist Warehouse 
 
Page 11 of 29 
the CSO Funding Pool for distributing PBS medicines. These wholesalers are 
known as CSO Distributors and the CSO Funding Pool remuneration is in 
addition to the regulated wholesale mark-up that wholesalers are permitted to 
charge for distributing PBS medicines.  
42. 
To receive funding, CSO Distributors must meet a set of obligations, including 
the CSO Service Standards and the CSO Compliance Requirements5. The CSO 
Service Standards are directed to ensuring that Australians have timely access 
to PBS medicines regardless of where they live and include that CSO 
Distributors must: 
• 
ensure PBS listed medicine is supplied to any pharmacy nationally 
generally within 24 hours (including rural and remote communities), and 
• 
guarantee supply of low volume PBS listed medicines. 
Pharmacy location rules  
43. 
PBS medicines can only be dispensed at registered pharmacies. The ‘Pharmacy 
Location Rules’6 prescribe specific and general requirements relating to the 
establishment of a new pharmacy, or the relocation of an existing pharmacy 
under section 90 of the National Health Act 1953 (Cth).  
44. 
The application of the Pharmacy Location Rules depends on the distance to the 
nearest existing pharmacy and the number of supermarkets. It typically prohibits 
a new pharmacy from opening within a certain distance of an existing pharmacy, 
usually either 1.5 or 10 km depending on the location and medical practitioners 
located within a particular area. However, there are a few exceptions. 
Pharmacy ownership 
45. 
In addition to the national regulation of pharmacy location, the states and 
territories prescribe their own regulations in relation to pharmacy ownership. 
Pharmacy ownership rules typically operate to limit the ownership, control, and 
operation of community pharmacies to pharmacists or corporations controlled by 
pharmacists, with limited exceptions in particular states and territories7. 
Provisions also exist in all jurisdictions, except the Australian Capital Territory, to 
enable ‘friendly societies’ to own pharmacies8. 
46. 
Pharmacy ownership rules generally restrict the number of pharmacy businesses 
a pharmacist or other eligible person or corporation is permitted to own, or have 
a relevant interest in, in each state and territory to the following: 
 
 
5 Outlined in the Department of Health and Aged Care’s Community Service Obligation Operational Guidelines. 
6 Legislated under the National Health (Australian Community Pharmacy Authority Rules) Determination 2018 (PB 46 
of 2018), made under section 99L of the National Health Act 1953. 
7 Health Practitioner National Law 2010 (NSW) Sch 5F, s 5(1); Pharmacy Act 2010 (WA) s 54(1); Pharmacy Business 
Ownership Act 2001 (Qld), ss 139B; Health Practitioner Regulation National Law (South Australia) Act 2010 (SA), s 
51(1a); Pharmacy Regulation Act 2010 (Vic) s 5(1); Pharmacy Control Act 2001 (Tas) ss 62(1)(a), 61C; Health 
Practitioners Act 2004 (NT) Sch 7 s 2. 
8 Health Practitioner National Law 2010 (NSW) Sch 5F, s 6; Pharmacy Act 2010 (WA) s 54(1)(d); Pharmacy Business 
Ownership Act 2001 (Qld), ss 139B(c),(d); Health Practitioner Regulation National Law (South Australia) Act 2010 (SA), 
s 51(1a)(iii); Pharmacy Regulation Act 2010 (Vic) s 51(1)(c); Pharmacy Control Act 2001 (Tas) s61C(1)(d). 


Sigma – proposed acquisition of Chemist Warehouse 
 
Page 12 of 29 
• 
Western Australia and Tasmania: four9 
• 
Queensland, New South Wales and Victoria: five10 
• 
South Australia: six11 
• 
Australian Capital Territory and Northern Territory: no restrictions.12 
The proposed acquisition 
47. 
On 11 December 2023, Sigma and Chemist Warehouse entered into a merger 
implementation agreement under which Sigma would acquire all the shares in 
Chemist Warehouse in exchange for Sigma shares and a $700 million cash 
consideration.  
48. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, Chemist Warehouse shareholders 
will hold 85.75% of the ASX listed merged entity while Sigma shareholders will 
hold 14.25%.  
Future with and without the acquisition  
49. 
In assessing a proposed acquisition under section 50 of the CCA, the ACCC 
considers the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future state of 
competition if the acquisition proceeds (the ’with’ position) to the likely future 
state of competition if the acquisition does not proceed (the ‘without’ position) to 
determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to substantially lessen 
competition in any relevant market. 
50. 
The ACCC considers that the likely future competitive environment absent the 
proposed acquisition would be the status quo. That is, Chemist Warehouse 
would continue to operate as an independent and effective competitor to Sigma 
in relevant markets. 
51. 
Chemist Warehouse has signed a contract with Sigma for the wholesale supply 
of prescription, OTC and FOS products for a 5-year period commencing 
1 July 2024 (the New Supply Contract).13 The ACCC is considering whether 
the counterfactual should include the new supply agreement and how the 
agreement affects assessment of the counterfactual.  
 
 
 
9 Pharmacy Act 2010 (WA) s 55; Pharmacy Control Act 2001 (Tas) s 65.  
10 Pharmacy Business Ownership Act 2001 (Qld) s 139H(1) ; Health Practitioner Regulation National Law 2010 (NSW) 
Sch 5F s 9; and Pharmacy Regulation Act 2010 (Vic) s 5(2). 
11 Health Practitioner Regulation National Law (South Australia) Act 2010 (SA) s 42(2). 
12 Health Professions Act 2004 (ACT); Health Practitioners Act 2007 (NT). 
13 https://sigmahealthcare.com.au/sigma-wins-chemist-warehouse-supply-contract/ 


Sigma – proposed acquisition of Chemist Warehouse 
 
Page 13 of 29 
Previous ACCC decisions  
2022 Wesfarmers Limited’s proposed acquisition of Australian Pharmaceutical 
Industries Limited (not opposed) 
52. 
On 11 February 2022, the ACCC announced it would not oppose Wesfarmers’ 
proposed acquisition of API.  
53. 
Whilst the ACCC considered that several Wesfarmers businesses retailed 
products in the same categories as API’s Priceline business (in OTC 
pharmaceutical products and beauty and personal care products) the ACCC 
concluded that the proposed acquisition was unlikely to substantially lessen 
competition in the relevant markets. The ACCC considered that Wesfarmers and 
API were not particularly close competitors in these retail markets and that there 
were many large and well-established retailers operating in the same markets 
that would compete strongly with Wesfarmers post-acquisition.  
2018 Arrow Pharmaceuticals Pty Ltd’s proposed merger with Apotex 
Pharmaceuticals Pty Ltd (not opposed) 
54. 
On 20 September 2018, the ACCC announced it would not oppose Arrow 
Pharmaceutical’s proposed merger with Apotex. The ACCC concluded that the 
proposed acquisition was not likely to substantially lessen competition in any 
relevant market. 
55. 
The ACCC concluded that the proposed acquisition was not likely to 
substantially lessen competition in the supply of generic prescription 
pharmaceuticals to pharmacies because: 
• 
pharmacies regularly purchase outside of their first line supply agreements 
with respect to generic prescription products, and  
• 
the combined entity would continue to face competition from suppliers such 
as Mylan and Sandoz, and was not likely to be able to the reduce 
discounts and incentives offered to pharmacies (including for buying and 
banner groups). 
56. 
The ACCC also considered the level of barriers to expansion for existing 
suppliers were not significant. 
57. 
The ACCC concluded that the proposed acquisition was not likely to 
substantially lessen competition in the supply of OTC pharmaceuticals to 
pharmacies because: 
• 
the combined entity would continue to face competition from a number of 
alternative generic and brand name OTC pharmaceuticals  
• 
the combined entity would not be likely to have an enhanced ability to 
bundle generic prescription and OTC pharmaceuticals.  
58. 
The ACCC considered that any attempt by Arrow-Apotex to foreclose its rivals 
from supplying the Pharmacy Alliance group (which Arrow had interests in) was 
unlikely to impact those rivals' ability to access customers as the vast majority of 
pharmacy customers are not part of the Pharmacy Alliance group. Further, 


Sigma – proposed acquisition of Chemist Warehouse 
 
Page 14 of 29 
pharmacies within a banner group are able to switch suppliers and negotiate 
prices with suppliers. 
59. 
The ACCC also concluded that the combined entity would not have the ability to 
foreclose competitors' access to molecules manufactured by Generic Partners or 
Oraderm as there were a number of alternative manufacturers of these 
molecules that competitors would be able to source supply from.  
Issue that may raise concerns: structural market change 
may raise barriers to entry and expansion   
60. 
The proposed acquisition represents a significant structural shift in the pharmacy 
sector. If the proposed acquisition proceeds, the current owners of Chemist 
Warehouse would control one of the three major full-line CSO wholesalers 
operating in Australia. The ACCC is considering the incentives and opportunities 
for the merged firm post-acquisition and the risk of anticompetitive outcomes 
given the centralised control of entities at different levels of the supply chain.  
61. 
Chemist Warehouse already has the largest retail presence in pharmacy by 
revenue. Through ownership connections and its commercial arrangements, its 
commercial control of its banner stores is, in the ACCC’s preliminary view, 
significantly stronger than other retail banner groups. In addition, it is already 
vertical integrated into pharmacy supply with several successful brands. The 
proposed acquisition would increase Chemist Warehouse's existing significant 
vertical integration.  
62. 
Sigma is a significant industry participant with a different business model. It is 
one of the leading wholesalers supplying many independent pharmacies and 
independently owned Sigma-banner pharmacies through franchise 
arrangements. Changing control of Sigma, such that the most significant retail 
competitor in the sector would now control the wholesale supply to those 
independently owned pharmacies, as well as control the commercial 
relationships with those pharmacies, is a significant shift.  It would give Chemist 
Warehouse control of a high proportion of the entire market’s volume at the retail 
and wholesale level, combined with control of some pharmacy supply.    
63. 
Increased vertical integration and resulting changes in business models can 
significantly alter competitive dynamics and constraints. The ACCC is concerned 
that the longer-term effects of this may limit the ability of non-vertically integrated 
business models to compete, making expansion and entry at a single level more 
difficult and lessening the competitive constraints provided in the medium to 
long-term. This in turn can have medium to longer term effects if, as a 
consequence, the only viable business model becomes a vertically integrated 
one, raising barriers to entry and expansion and potentially resulting in a 
substantial lessening of competition.  
64. 
The pharmacy sector may be vulnerable to such a longer- term outcome given 
that the existing regulations generally drive a model of independent retail store 
ownership.   
65. 
Some market participants have expressed concern to the ACCC about the past 
expansion of Chemist Warehouse in the pharmacy sector and the disruption that 
this has caused to traditional pharmacies.  


Sigma – proposed acquisition of Chemist Warehouse 
 
Page 15 of 29 
66. 
The ACCC does not have a concluded view about the competitiveness of 
different business models. Many customers value the Chemist Warehouse 
business model and have benefitted from it but, as discussed above, it is 
important that the proposed acquisition does not weaken the ability of other 
business models to compete effectively. Barriers to expansion and entry may 
increase if the only competitively viable business model becomes a vertically 
integrated one.    
67. 
Maintaining the ability for rivals to compete through competitive differentiation in 
their business models may be critical to the overall competitiveness of the 
industry and is therefore a focus for the ACCC’s investigation.   
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its consideration of the likely 
impact of the proposed acquisition on the pharmacy supply chain and its concerns in 
relation to the broader impact of the proposed acquisition on the pharmacy supply 
chain and retail pharmacy sector. In particular market participants may wish to 
comment on:  
• 
the impact of the proposed acquisition on competitive dynamics in the medium to 
long term on the wholesale and retail pharmacy sector,   
• 
whether rival suppliers are incentivised (and able) to replicate Chemist 
Warehouse’s vertically integrated model to effectively compete   
• 
the extent to which non-vertically integrated pharmacies would be able effectively 
compete with vertically integrated ones through, for example, access to buying 
groups post acquisition.  
Issue that may raise concerns: Reduction in competition in 
pharmacy retailing  
68. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition may substantially 
lessen competition in pharmacy retailing because it could:  
• 
lessen the competitive constraint Chemist Warehouse and Sigma banner 
stores impose on each other, which may allow them to increase prices, 
reduce service quality, or both, at a state/national level or in local areas, or 
both, and  
• 
weaken Sigma banner stores’ differentiated product and service offering at 
a state/national level or in local areas, or both. 
69. 
Some market participants have raised concerns that the proposed acquisition 
would create a merged entity of sufficient size and scale such that independent 
pharmacies’ ability to compete and remain viable is undermined. The ACCC is 
considering these concerns but notes that the merged entity increasing in size 
and scale does not in itself raise competition concerns.    
Relevant markets 
70. 
Both Chemist Warehouse, through Chemist Warehouse and MyChemist stores, 
and Sigma, through Amcal, Discount Drug Store, PharmaSave and Guardian 


Sigma – proposed acquisition of Chemist Warehouse 
 
Page 16 of 29 
stores, operate networks of pharmacies that supply prescription, OTC and FOS 
products to consumers. 
Product dimension  
71. 
As all pharmacies offer a combination of PBS and non-PBS prescriptions, OTC 
and FOS products to consumers, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the 
appropriate product dimension through which to consider the impact of the 
proposed acquisition is pharmacy retailing, incorporating all of these product 
categories. While non-pharmacy retailers may also sell some of these products, 
the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the retailing of the combination of these 
products in a pharmacy setting is valued and constitutes a single, separate 
market.   
72. 
However, as also set out in the ‘Industry regulation’ section, different regulations 
apply to the supply of prescription, OTC and FOS products. The prices of 
prescription medicines listed on the PBS are regulated.14 In addition, only 
pharmacies can dispense prescription medicines and most OTC medicines can 
only be dispensed in pharmacies or by pharmacists (at least for certain dosages 
or pack sizes).15 These regulations do not apply to the supply of unscheduled 
FOS products and medicines to consumers, which may also sold in 
supermarkets and other retail outlets. As such, the ACCC is also considering 
whether the competitive dynamics in the supply of PBS, non-PBS prescriptions, 
OTC and FOS products to consumers should also be viewed separately.  
Geographic dimension  
73. 
The ACCC is still considering the appropriate geographic dimension of the 
relevant markets. Consumers are unlikely to travel further than necessary to buy 
pharmacy products. The supply of retail pharmacy products therefore has local 
dimensions. However, while the relevant markets are likely local, as set out 
below, the ACCC recognises that the merger parties, at least to some extent, set 
their prices and other factors of competition (such as service levels) at a national 
or state level. Consequently, the ACCC considers the factors, including local 
competitive conditions, that inform those national/state-based prices. As such, 
while the relevant markets are likely local, many of the ACCC’s considerations 
are at the national/state level. 
74. 
Chemist Warehouse and Sigma own pharmacy franchise systems with a 
national presence. There are differences between regions and states in terms of 
the operation of smaller pharmacy banner groups (i.e. some smaller groups only 
operate in certain regions or states) and independent pharmacies, but all major 
group owners (including Chemist Warehouse, Sigma, API and EBOS) operate 
nationally.  
75. 
In addition, the prices, product range, service offering and other competitive 
choices at Chemist Warehouse pharmacies appear to be made nationally. 
Sigma and other large pharmacy franchise system operators also appear to set 
franchise price and service level guidance and arrangements at a regional or 
 
 
14 See National Health Act 1953 Pt VII div 2. 
15 National Health Act 1953 s 90.  


Sigma – proposed acquisition of Chemist Warehouse 
 
Page 17 of 29 
national level and have some influence or control in assuring that this guidance 
is implemented.  
76. 
As such, the ACCC is considering state-based and national competitive 
dynamics in its consideration of the proposed acquisition.  
77. 
In addition to this state/national consideration, the ACCC is considering 
competition between Sigma and Chemist Warehouse stores in local markets in 
which both are present. Despite the apparent state or national control of key 
elements of the price and non-price offering by the major operators, individual 
pharmacy owners may have some ability to adjust their price and service quality 
in response to local market dynamics. Furthermore, other elements that affect 
quality, such as the level of staffing, the store amenity, and the level of individual 
care are likely to be impacted by local competition dynamics.  
78. 
When assessing local retail markets, the ACCC identifies the competitive 
constraints on the merged firm’s retail offers at an individual store level. The 
relevant local area will differ according to multiple factors. However, the process 
includes consideration of travelling time and distance between pharmacies, 
which also depends on the predominant means of transport in a local market. As 
a general rule, the area of close competition between pharmacies is likely to be 
larger in regional areas than in metropolitan areas. In local market matters, the 
ACCC develops radii for each area type for the purposes of an initial screening 
of potentially concerning areas of overlap. That merging parties may be present 
within a given radius does not mean the ACCC will necessarily identify 
competition concerns in that area but it does enable the ACCC to focus its 
analysis on the areas where some competitively relevant change in structure 
may arise post-acquisition. The ACCC’s application of this methodology in 
relation to the proposed acquisition is set out under ‘Impact on local markets’ 
below.   
Online retail markets  
79. 
The ACCC is considering the competitive effects of the online supply of 
pharmacy products by Chemist Warehouse, Sigma banners including Amcal, 
and other pharmacy banners, on how the ACCC analyses the retail pharmacy 
market definition (and its competitive analysis more broadly). 
80. 
It appears that pharmacies can supply OTC and FOS products to consumers 
nationally through online stores. For example, Chemist Warehouse has a 
significant online presence and supplies OTC and FOS products direct to 
consumers nationally. Sigma, likewise, supplies products through the Amcal 
website.  
81. 
However, it appears to the ACCC that the relevant geographic area for online 
sales of prescription products (PBS and non-PBS) may be narrower than 
national or regional. The ACCC understands that some prescription products can 
be ordered online (from an online pharmacy that is connected to a retail 
pharmacy/pharmacist) and shipped to consumers nationally, while others (e.g. 
those that require special handling, refrigeration, etc.) must be collected from a 
local pharmacy. Where it is and is likely to remain the case that prescription 
orders must be fulfilled locally, the relevant area for online prescription products 
will be narrower.   
 


Sigma – proposed acquisition of Chemist Warehouse 
 
Page 18 of 29 
Market concentration   
82. 
Each Chemist Warehouse and Sigma banner store is owned and operated by an 
individual pharmacist (with some pharmacists owning multiple pharmacies) such 
that each separately owned store could be considered to be an individual 
competitor, and the proposed acquisition would result in no retail pharmacy 
aggregation. However, Chemist Warehouse appears to exert significant control 
or influence over price and non-price decisions at its banner stores, including 
through high levels of executive ownership of Chemist Warehouse stores. Sigma 
also appears to exert a degree of control or influence over price and non-price 
decisions at its banner stores.  
83. 
As such, the ACCC considers that post acquisition the merged entity would have 
a degree of control or influence over Chemist Warehouse and Sigma banner 
stores. The extent of that influence likely varies between the banner groups and 
depends on the ownership structure of each individual pharmacy and other links 
between the franchisor and franchisee. Given the strong links (including close 
family links) between Chemist Warehouse and many of its pharmacy owners, the 
degree of influence over Chemist Warehouse stores is likely particularly strong. 
The ACCC is continuing to consider this issue, in particular the degree of control 
the merged entity would have over Sigma banner pharmacies.  
84. 
There are over 6,000 pharmacies in Australia. The ACCC estimates that the 
largest 5 banner groups, set out in Table 1, account for around 40-45% of stores. 
Small to medium banners (such as Chempro Chemist, Blooms The Chemist, 
Direct Chemist Outlet, Pharmacy 777 and Ramsay Pharmacy) account for 
around 15-20% of stores, and the remaining 40% of pharmacies are 
independents. 
Table 1: Store counts for major banner groups  
 
85. 
With approximately 550 pharmacies, Chemist Warehouse accounts for 9% of 
retail pharmacy stores and has the second largest number of bannered 
pharmacies in Australia (behind only EBOS). The ACCC considers that 
assessing market share by revenue may be a more informative assessment than 


Sigma – proposed acquisition of Chemist Warehouse 
 
Page 19 of 29 
store count, and notes that Chemist Warehouse’s revenue-based market share 
is higher than its store count suggests, especially if online sales are included.  
86. 
Sigma is the fifth largest banner operator in Australia, with approximately 400 
bannered pharmacies between its Amcal, Discount Drug Store, PharmaSave 
and Guardian retail pharmacy banners. Compared to Chemist Warehouse 
stores, Sigma pharmacies have a greater focus on selling pharmaceutical 
products (OTC and prescriptions products), and on service quality.  
87. 
As such, the proposed acquisition would result in a material concentration of 
retail pharmacy stores by combining two of the five major pharmacy banner 
operators. The proposed acquisition would create the largest banner operator 
with approximately 950 pharmacies and the merged firm will have an 
approximate 16% share of retail pharmacy stores in Australia.  
Lessening of price and non-price elements of competition 
88. 
The ACCC is considering how Sigma banner stores and Chemist Warehouse 
banner stores competitively constrain each other and how the removal of this 
competitive constraint would affect the merged entity’s prices and its non-price 
offering. Non-price factors include quality of service and variety of product 
offering.  
89. 
Price increases could take the form of increases in the retail prices either set or 
influenced by the merged entity at a national or regional level, and the ACCC is 
considering whether the merged entity would have sufficient market share or 
power that it could raise prices without materially losing sales or market share.  
90. 
In regard to non-price elements of competition, the proposed acquisition could 
result in a reduction in the differentiated product and service offerings. A 
decrease in the range of product offerings could take the form of an increase in 
owned-label and private label products in place of branded products.  
91. 
Further, it is possible that the proposed acquisition could lead to a consolidation 
of Sigma banner pharmacies if the merged entity decided to:  
• 
convert Sigma’s banner pharmacies to Chemist Warehouse stores, either 
when a Sigma banner franchise agreement expires and must be renewed, 
or by influencing Sigma banner pharmacists to convert sooner  
• 
not renew franchise agreements with Sigma pharmacists. This would result 
in former Sigma pharmacists having to switch to new banners or operate 
as independent pharmacists. This could result in these stores being less 
competitive or even exiting the market if the cost of switching to a new 
banner or operating independently is too expensive.  
92. 
Against these concerns, the pharmacy retail market is fragmented and the 
merged entity would face competition from the three remaining major banner 
group pharmacies, from numerous small-medium banner groups’ pharmacies 
and from a significant number of independent pharmacies. In addition, in the 
FOS segment, there are potentially other competitors that are relevant to the 
consideration of competitive effects, particularly the major supermarket chains. 
93. 
In addition, the ACCC is considering the extent to which Sigma offers a different 
value proposition to Chemist Warehouse and how competitively significant that 


Sigma – proposed acquisition of Chemist Warehouse 
 
Page 20 of 29 
differentiated offering is. Sigma appears to focus more on OTC and prescription 
products than FOS products and discount prices like Chemist Warehouse. 
However, other banner groups and independent pharmacies appear to have a 
similar service-offering to Sigma pharmacies, as do many of the independent 
pharmacies. So even if there is a shift towards the larger-format discount FOS 
focussed model by the combined entity, there are a large number of players with 
a differing more service-focussed model that will still exist. 
Impact of increase in scale of the merged entity   
94. 
Market feedback received by the ACCC indicates that it is difficult for 
independent pharmacies to compete with Chemist Warehouse because it has 
high brand recognition, low prices (often with RRPs below competitor wholesale 
prices) and often has stores in prime locations. Market participants have 
submitted that the proposed acquisition may enhance these competitive 
advantages and make it even more difficult for other pharmacies to compete, 
particularly in relation to pricing and product offering for FOS products. Market 
participants suggest that this may result in the exit of independent pharmacies 
who are unable to compete with the merged entity, and ultimately reduce retail 
pharmacy competition. 
95. 
The ACCC is continuing to consider this issue, but notes that the merged entity 
increasing in size and scale is and of itself is not necessarily a competition 
concern for section 50 purposes.  
Impact on local markets  
96. 
Competition in the retail pharmacy market may be influenced by both 
state/national competition and local market dynamics. As such, the ACCC is also 
concerned about the issues discussed above in local areas where both Chemist 
Warehouse and Sigma banner stores operate.  
97. 
The ACCC is analysing areas of local overlap between Chemist Warehouse and 
Sigma stores and notes that the competition analysis differs for each local area.  
98. 
To assist with identifying areas of local overlap between Chemist Warehouse 
and Sigma stores that the ACCC proposes to consider in greater detail, the 
ACCC has applied some preliminary screening criteria to local areas.  
99. 
Firstly, the ACCC has used the following radii around every Chemist Warehouse 
store, based on the area type the store is located in:  
• 
densely populated areas (e.g. CBDs): 1.5km  
• 
other metropolitan areas: 3km  
• 
Inner and Outer Regional areas:16 5km 
• 
Remote areas:17 10km. 
 
 
16 As classified according to ABS Remoteness Areas. 


Sigma – proposed acquisition of Chemist Warehouse 
 
Page 21 of 29 
100. Secondly, because local areas that are more concentrated are more likely to 
raise competition concerns, the ACCC has used the following preliminary 
thresholds (within the relevant radii) to identify areas that may be more 
concentrated: 
• 
where the combined number of Sigma and Chemist Warehouse stores 
account for 25% or more of sites in the area, and 
• 
where there are 10 third-party competitors or fewer in the local area. 
101. The ACCC’s preliminary screening has identified a significant number of local 
areas of overlap between Sigma and Chemist Warehouse stores that it proposes 
to consider in greater detail. The ACCC proposes to conduct further consultation 
with market participants about potential local market concerns following 
publication of this SOI. 
102. The ACCC has taken the approach above for the purposes of this preliminary 
market screening only and this does not reflect detailed analysis of critical issues 
that are relevant to local market competition. Not all areas that meet the above 
criteria will ultimately be of concern, and areas that fall outside of these criteria 
may nevertheless raise preliminary competition concerns and require further 
analysis.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to 
competition in pharmacy retailing. In particular, market participants may wish to 
comment on the following: 
• 
the level of control or influence Chemist Warehouse and Sigma each exert over 
pharmacies in their banner and buying groups 
• 
the level of constraint that Chemist Warehouse pharmacies and Sigma pharmacies 
currently impose on each other   
• 
the level of constraint that third-party pharmacies are likely to impose on the 
merged entity post-acquisition 
• 
the level of constraint non-pharmacy retailers (e.g. Coles, Woolworths, Target, etc) 
impose on pharmacies (particularly Chemist Warehouse) in relation to FOS 
products 
• 
if and how Chemist Warehouse and Sigma pharmacies may change their offerings 
post-acquisition 
• 
the suitability of the ACCC’s radius and market concentration measures for 
identifying local markets of potential concern.  
 
 
17 As classified according to ABS Remoteness Areas.  


Sigma – proposed acquisition of Chemist Warehouse 
 
Page 22 of 29 
Issue that may raise concerns: Foreclosure of retail 
pharmacies  
103. The proposed acquisition combines Sigma’s significant wholesale business with 
Chemist Warehouse’s significant downstream retail business. The ACCC’s 
preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition may substantially lessen 
competition in pharmacy retailing, by way of the foreclosure of Sigma banner 
pharmacies and other pharmacies currently supplied by Sigma.  
Foreclosure of rival pharmacies  
104. Based on the ACCC’s initial review, including market feedback received, the 
ACCC is concerned that post-acquisition the merged entity could degrade its 
price and supply terms to Sigma banner pharmacies and other pharmacies 
currently supplied by Sigma, including by stockpiling limited supply medications 
and preferentially supplying them to Chemist Warehouse banner pharmacies.   
105. The ACCC is investigating whether the proposed acquisition increases Sigma’s 
ability and incentive to foreclose rival pharmacies by engaging in the conduct 
outlined above, and whether such foreclosure would have the effect of 
substantially lessening competition in retail pharmacy markets.  
Factors relevant to ability  
106. Whether Sigma can foreclose rival pharmacies it currently supplies depends on 
whether such pharmacies have alternative supply sources that would still allow 
them to be competitive (i.e., can these pharmacies cost-effectively switch to 
alternative wholesalers such as API or EBOS). The switching ability of Sigma-
supplied pharmacies may vary, as some may be under contract for a set number 
of years or have other costs or reasons to stay with Sigma. 
Market concentration 
107. Sigma is a significant wholesaler of pharmacy products and by its own estimate 
has approximately 20% wholesale market share.18 This market share is prior to 
the commencement of the New Supply Contract between Sigma and Chemist 
Warehouse and is likely to understate Sigma’s market significance as of 1 July 
2024. The two largest alternative wholesalers to Sigma are API and EBOS. 
Collectively the three wholesalers have approximately 90% market share. In 
addition to the three major wholesalers, retail pharmacies may use CH2 (a 
smaller national full-line wholesaler), short-line wholesalers, and, in some limited 
circumstances, direct supply from manufacturers.  
108. The ACCC is continuing to investigate the competitive constraint from these 
alternative wholesalers, including the extent to which they would be viewed as a 
sufficient and equivalent alternative if Sigma were to worsen terms and 
conditions for the Sigma banner pharmacies and other pharmacies it currently 
supplies, and there was an effective reduction in the number of available 
wholesalers.  
 
 
18 Sigma Healthcare FY22 Results Presentation. 


Sigma – proposed acquisition of Chemist Warehouse 
 
Page 23 of 29 
Regulatory environment 
109. As outlined in the ‘Industry regulation’ section, the wholesale supply of pharmacy 
products (specifically PBS products) is regulated. As a CSO accredited 
wholesaler, Sigma has ongoing obligations it must meet. To continue to access 
the CSO Funding Pool, Sigma submits that it cannot self-preference and is 
required to supply to all pharmacies.  
110. The ACCC understands from its inquiries that these obligations relate only to 
PBS medicines, and the regulatory framework does not cover most OTC or FOS 
products. The ACCC also understands that there are circumstances where the 
obligations may not apply such as in the event of stock shortages. 
111. In addition, the ACCC considers that there are elements of wholesale supply that 
cannot be regulated, for example, how quickly a pharmacy receives a response 
to queries, how reliable the delivery is and the detail of the terms and conditions 
of the wholesale supply (for example payment terms). 
112. The ACCC is considering the implications of the CSO obligations, CSO Funding 
Pool and the extent to which there is ability within this framework to preference 
certain pharmacies over others. The ACCC is also assessing how products that 
are not covered by regulations may be differently impacted. The ACCC’s 
preliminary view is that regulations may limit but would not prevent Sigma from 
engaging in foreclosure strategies (if it were profitable to do so). 
Barriers to entry 
113. Another factor relevant to Sigma’s ability is the height of barriers to entry.  
114. Market feedback indicates that barriers to entry in the wholesale supply of goods 
and services to retail pharmacies are high, and new entry is unlikely to occur in a 
timely manner because:  
• 
The wholesale supply of pharmacy products to retail pharmacies is 
characterised by significant economies of scale and scope. Existing market 
participants have obtained this scale, and the market structure has been 
stable at the wholesaling level for some time. This stable market structure 
and the importance of economies of scale and scope reduces the expected 
profitability of would-be entrants to enter the market.  
• 
Wholesaling often takes place through supply contracts, with variable 
terms but usually approximately 3 to 5 years in length. These contracts 
may reduce the available customers for a would-be entrant, making it 
harder for an entrant to reach efficient scale, and so reducing the expected 
profitability from entry.  
• 
The wholesale supply of pharmacy products is subject to a complex 
regulatory framework, that requires CSO wholesalers to operate nationally 
and meet certain service requirements. This regulatory framework raises 
the complexity for would-be entrants, raises compliance costs, and results 
in higher capital costs for entry (as entry must occur nationally). 
115. The proposed acquisition would result in significant vertical integration between 
a wholesaler and a retail chain. The merged entity may obtain some efficiencies 
as a result of the proposed acquisition and lower its costs but increasing vertical 


Sigma – proposed acquisition of Chemist Warehouse 
 
Page 24 of 29 
integration may also raise barriers to entry if would-be entrants are required to 
enter at all functional levels of the supply chain to better compete with the 
merged entity and obtain similar cost structures.  
116. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that barriers to entry for the wholesale supply of 
pharmacy products to retail pharmacies are high, and consequently new entry is 
unlikely to occur quickly enough to prevent Sigma worsening terms to other 
pharmacies post-acquisition. 
Conclusion on ability 
117. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that Sigma banner pharmacies and other 
pharmacies currently supplied by Sigma may have limited competitive 
alternatives available to them, as suggested by high levels of concentration, 
significant regulatory complexity and high barriers to entry. As such, there may 
be some ability to engage in the conduct outlined in paragraph above. 
Factors relevant to incentive  
118. Chemist Warehouse is already a sizeable wholesale customer. From 1 July 2024 
when the New Supply Contract between Sigma and Chemist Warehouse comes 
into effect, Sigma’s sales to Chemist Warehouse will increase significantly. Post-
acquisition, these sales become ‘internal’ sales, and as a result the importance 
of third-party sales as a proportion of total sales to the Sigma business would 
diminish. 
119. Additionally, while third-party sales are presently important to the profitability of 
Sigma’s business, the proposed acquisition would be transformative to that 
business, and third-party wholesale sales would be significantly less important to 
the profitability of the overall business of the merged entity. The profitability of 
the merged entity would likely depend on the more profitable Chemist 
Warehouse business, which in turn relies on wholesale sales to Chemist 
Warehouse banner stores.  
120. In assessing whether the merged firm would have an incentive to foreclose rival 
pharmacies post acquisition, the ACCC is examining whether the benefit the 
merged entity might obtain from increased retail profits would likely be 
outweighed by a loss of profit from a reduction in third-party wholesale sales.  
121. The merged entity may have an incentive to worsen terms to rival pharmacies, if, 
as a result, sufficient consumers switch away from these pharmacies in favour of 
its own banner pharmacies (of which there would be a significant number post-
acquisition), and the margins that the merged entity earn on those additional 
buyers outweigh any reduction in profits due to reduced wholesale sales to these 
pharmacies.  
122. As discussed in relation to ability, another factor the ACCC is considering is the 
extent of regulatory controls and the products they apply to. Incentives may differ 
depending on the category of product. While there are price regulations for PBS 
products (that may incentivise wholesalers to achieve high volumes of these 
products), OTC and FOS products are not generally subject to any pricing 
requirements, and the ACCC understands that FOS and private label products 
typically have a higher margin.  


Sigma – proposed acquisition of Chemist Warehouse 
 
Page 25 of 29 
123. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition may increase 
Sigma’s incentive to engage in foreclosure strategies. 
Effect of foreclosure  
124. The foreclosure of rival retail pharmacies may have the effect of substantially 
lessening competition where it leads to an increase in the price and/or decrease 
in the quality of goods and services provided in retail pharmacies, raising 
barriers to entry and/or expansion in retail pharmacy markets.   
125. Based on the ACCC’s investigation to date, the ACCC’s preliminary view is the 
proposed acquisition may increase Sigma’s ability and incentive to foreclose rival 
pharmacies, and if this foreclosure occurs that it may substantially lessen 
competition.  
126. The ACCC is continuing to investigate these issues. In its further assessment, 
the ACCC will consider the extent to which the proposed acquisition increases 
Sigma’s ability and incentive to engage in discriminatory and/or self-preferencing 
conduct and whether it is likely such conduct would result in a substantial 
lessening of competition.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to the 
foreclosure of retail pharmacies. In particular market participants may wish to 
comment on the following: 
• 
the level of constraint from alternative wholesalers, and their ability to service 
Sigma banner pharmacies and other pharmacies currently supplied by Sigma 
• 
the ability of pharmacies to switch wholesaler, including the related costs of 
switching  
• 
whether Sigma has any different or special features to the other wholesalers that 
make it a preferred wholesaler  
• 
the extent of regulatory price controls that apply to products sold in retail 
pharmacies, such as those that apply to PBS products  
• 
the extent to which changes in price and other elements of competition are likely to 
drive customers toward a Sigma/Chemist Warehouse pharmacy or away from an 
independent pharmacy 
• 
barriers to entry and expansion for wholesalers 
• 
barriers to entry and expansion for retail pharmacies and, in particular for 
independent pharmacies  
• 
the extent of any constraint on Sigma/Chemist Warehouse pharmacies were they 
to increase their prices after having worsened terms to rival pharmacies and so 
rendered them less competitive. 


Sigma – proposed acquisition of Chemist Warehouse 
 
Page 26 of 29 
Issue that may raise concerns: Access to and use of 
Sigma-supplied independent pharmacies’ data, reducing 
retail pharmacy competition   
127. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition may enable 
Chemist Warehouse to access the commercially sensitive data of Sigma banner 
pharmacies and other pharmacies currently supplied by Sigma. This data could 
be used to disadvantage pharmacies both within the Sigma wholesale network, 
and those outside the Sigma network (i.e., supplied by alternative wholesalers 
and that would no longer consider Sigma an alternative wholesaler due to data 
concerns), and limit their ability to compete against Chemist Warehouse banner 
pharmacies.  
Sigma’s access to commercially sensitive data 
128. According to market participants, Sigma has access to commercially sensitive 
data and information regarding the pharmacies it supplies products to. Sigma 
has access to this data for multiple reasons, one main reason being so that 
Sigma can anticipate a pharmacy’s demand for products so that it can fulfill its 
CSO supply obligations, in particular the 24-hour supply requirement (further 
discussed at paragraph 42). The data Sigma can access may include some or all 
of the following: 
• 
product SKUs, price paid by pharmacy to wholesaler, volume and order 
history of pharmacies 
• 
product negotiations and purchase prices including promotional pricing on 
wholesale purchases  
• 
retail sales and loyalty data (for example, rewards club data).  
129. Market participants indicate that this data is commercially sensitive and valuable 
as it provides information regarding their product range, purchases, buying 
patterns, and which products pharmacies rely on for profit, customer attraction 
and retention. Information available to Sigma through its historical relationships 
with pharmacies could also reveal additionally sensitive aspects regarding lease 
premises19, whether pharmacies are facing financial difficulty, and potential sites 
for new pharmacy locations. 
Adverse impact on rival pharmacies  
130. Based on market feedback and its initial review, the ACCC is concerned that 
access to and use of Sigma-supplied pharmacies’ data could limit the ability of 
rival pharmacies to compete against Chemist Warehouse banner pharmacies. 
The ACCC is considering whether competitive harm could occur in the following 
ways to pharmacies supplied by Sigma: 
 
 
19 Lease of pharmacy premises is a key component of maintaining a pharmacy as the Pharmacy Location Rules 
require that the applicant for the pharmacy has evidence of a legal right to occupy the premises at all relevant times 
(Part 2, section 10, subsection 3(b). 


Sigma – proposed acquisition of Chemist Warehouse 
 
Page 27 of 29 
• 
By lowering the incentive for Sigma-supplied retail pharmacies to compete 
- if Chemist Warehouse uses insights from commercially sensitive data to 
pre-empt, appropriate or otherwise undermine Sigma-supplied pharmacies 
competitive actions (e.g. product promotions), this may discourage Sigma-
supplied pharmacies from fully pursuing these opportunities. If the merged 
entity has knowledge of a rival pharmacy’s promotion plan prior to 
implementation, there is an enhanced risk that Chemist Warehouse banner 
pharmacies will match the plans, meaning the Sigma-supplied pharmacies 
will not get the benefits of the promotion. This would lead to Sigma-
supplied pharmacies being less able to compete against Chemist 
Warehouse banner pharmacies.  
• 
Through targeted predation - if Chemist Warehouse uses insights from 
commercially sensitive data to target rival pharmacies (for example, by 
undercutting them on key product pricing) or by pre-empting, or otherwise 
undermining their competitive actions (e.g. product promotions). This may 
include being for the purpose of undermining their viability and forcing 
them to exit so that the licence can be acquired by a Chemist Warehouse 
store. 
131. Market inquiries suggest Sigma-supplied pharmacies (and pharmacies which are 
not currently supplied by Sigma to a significant extent, but have Sigma as a 
potential option for wholesale supply or a franchise arrangement) are 
significantly concerned about Chemist Warehouse gaining access to their data, 
and using that data to constrain or limit their ability to compete. These are deeply 
held concerns about being supplied at a wholesale level, or having a franchise 
relationship, with their strongest competitor. Even if they can switch to API or 
EBOS, those market participants feel they are in a worse position, as they have 
a choice of two main alternatives for wholesale supply or a franchise 
arrangement, whereas currently there are three major options. This is of 
particular concern where products are in limited supply or out of stock from a 
pharmacies’ first-line supplier, and they are no longer able to source supply from 
Sigma, affecting their product offering and competitiveness. 
132. The foreclosure scenarios outlined above are of concern to the ACCC if the 
effect of the foreclosure is that rival pharmacies’ ability to compete against 
Chemist Warehouse pharmacies is inhibited.   
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation 
potential for Chemist Warehouse to access commercially sensitive pharmacy data and 
use it to reduce rival pharmacies’ competitiveness. In particular, market participants 
may wish to comment on the following: 
• 
the types and extent of pharmacy data wholesalers can access  
• 
the likely impact of such access on competition, including decisions with respect to 
pricing, promotions, and product offerings. 
Issue that may raise concerns: Foreclosure of rival 
suppliers of pharmacy products  
133. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition could foreclose 
suppliers who compete with Chemist Warehouse and Sigma’s owned-label and 


Sigma – proposed acquisition of Chemist Warehouse 
 
Page 28 of 29 
private label products access to customers. This concern is likely to be stronger 
for those products where suppliers have fewer paths to market, for example for 
PBS and OTC products (which can only be supplied in pharmacies, and not – for 
example – in supermarkets)20.  
134. The ACCC understands that Chemist Warehouse and Sigma have stated 
intentions to expand their owned-label and private label products through the 
merger21, which could reduce reliance on third-party suppliers in the future. The 
ACCC’s inquiries indicate that for some suppliers, Sigma and Chemist 
Warehouse’s wholesale acquisition volumes are significant and may be 
considered an irreplaceable supply channel.  
135. The ACCC is considering the effects of the proposed acquisition on the 
upstream supply of pharmacy products and potential implications for suppliers 
who compete (or would like to compete) with the merged entity’s owned-label 
and private label products, given the merged entity’s significant supply channel 
post-acquisition. For example, the ACCC is considering the likelihood, and 
competitive effects, of decision(s) by the merged entity to increase its owned or 
private label offering and/or ceasing to work with or offer products from rival 
suppliers that compete with its own. The merged entity may be incentivised to do 
this if it earns higher margins on the sales of its owned or private label products, 
than it does on the sale of rival suppliers’ products, and if no longer offering rival 
suppliers’ products does not result in a significant number of consumers 
switching their purchases to rival pharmacies. 
136. This approach may have a competitive effect if, for example, the merged entity 
was able to effectively increase the price of its owned or private label products 
(unconstrained by the pricing of other products) and/or foreclose rival suppliers’ 
access to market to such an extent that it reduces their ability and/or incentive to 
compete, leading to a reduction of consumer choice.   
137. The ACCC is considering factors that may limit the competitive impact of any 
such strategy including the extent of alternative routes to market:  
• 
For some suppliers there are likely to remain numerous alternative routes 
to market (thus minimising the impact of any loss of supply channel). Most 
Chemist Warehouse sales are from FOS products22 and for those products 
there is generally a wider range of distribution channels, including 
supermarkets and other retailers. 
• 
Several manufacturers of pharmaceutical and non-pharmaceutical 
products are part of large, global businesses, and may have sufficient 
countervailing power to bypass the merged entity’s wholesale business 
and sell directly to retailers. 
 
 
20 Market inquiries suggested that Chemist Warehouse is seeking to expand its use of its ‘Wagner’ brand into the 
production of Scheduled medicines, to be produced by Arrotex Pharmaceuticals Pty Ltd. The ACCC considers these 
inquiries likely to be corroborated by a number of recent registrations of new ‘WGR’ products by Arrotex on the 
Australian Register of Therapeutic Goods. 
21 See for example: Sigma Healthcare Limited FY24 results announcement, p. 16.  
22 Chemist Warehouse franchisees generated 67 per cent of their revenues from FOS sales from items such as beauty 
products, vitamins and perfume: https://www.afr.com/companies/retail/chemist-warehouse-s-boss-targets-growth-of-
infinity-and-beyond-20231211-p5eqk2. 


Sigma – proposed acquisition of Chemist Warehouse 
 
Page 29 of 29 
• 
Retail pharmacies do not have exclusive supply arrangements with 
wholesale suppliers of pharmacy products. The ACCC understands that it 
is commonplace for pharmacies to be supplied by several providers of 
wholesale goods and services. 
138. The ACCC considers that the risk of the merged entity foreclosing suppliers and 
impacting competition will likely depend on the type of product being supplied. 
For example, while suppliers of FOS products may have a variety of alternative 
retail routes to market, options for suppliers of PBS and OTC products are more 
limited and Sigma and Chemist Warehouse’s wholesale acquisition volumes are 
likely to be more significant to them. The ACCC is continuing to investigate these 
issues.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the potential foreclosure of 
rival manufacturers. In particular, market participants may wish to comment on the 
following: 
• 
the significance for suppliers of being able to access Sigma’s wholesale 
distribution network and its pharmacy customers 
• 
the process for introducing new pharmaceutical products to market, and the extent 
to which it is necessary for the product/s to be distributed by some, most or all the 
full and short line wholesalers. 
ACCC's future steps 
139. As noted above, the ACCC invites submissions from market participants on each 
of the issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that 
may be relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. Submissions should 
be emailed to SigmaCWG@accc.gov.au by no later than 27 June 2024. 
140. The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
141. The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 5 September 2024. 
However, the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment explaining the 
ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's public announcement. 
