 
1 
 
 
Public competition assessment 
7 May 2025 
 Sigma Healthcare Limited – proposed acquisition of 
CW Group Holdings Limited 
 
The ACCC’s decision 
1. On 7 November 2024, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission 
(ACCC) announced its decision not to oppose the proposed acquisition by Sigma 
Healthcare Limited (Sigma) of CW Group Holdings Limited (Chemist Warehouse) 
(the proposed acquisition) after accepting a section 87B undertaking from Sigma 
(the Undertaking). 
2. Sigma has committed to three key obligations in the Undertaking: 
a. Sigma franchisee and customer switching: Sigma will not prevent or 
hinder its pharmacy franchisees and wholesale or buying group customers 
who entered into an agreement with Sigma prior to 1 July 2024 from 
terminating their agreements with Sigma. These franchisees and customers 
will have up to three years to terminate their agreements, and Sigma will 
waive all rights to recover contributions it has already made under its 
agreements as well as future fees payable to Sigma. 
b. Deleting confidential data for exiting franchisees and customers: For 
three years from the completion of the acquisition, Sigma will safeguard the 
confidential information of all exiting Sigma retail pharmacy customers and 
once a customer commences the process to terminate its agreement, Sigma 
will ensure that only approved personnel can access the confidential 
information before it is deleted.  
c. CSO wholesaling: Sigma will remain a participating pharmaceutical 
wholesaler under the Commonwealth Government’s Community Service 
Obligation (CSO) arrangements for five years (commencing from the date of 
completion). 
3. The ACCC considered that the proposed acquisition, taking into account the 
Undertaking, would be unlikely to contravene section 50 of the Competition and 
Consumer Act.  
4. This Public Competition Assessment outlines reasons for the decision by the ACCC 
not to oppose the proposed acquisition, taking into account the Undertaking. 
5. ACCC public competition assessments are subject to the following qualifications: 


 
2 
 
a. The ACCC considers each transaction on a case-by-case basis and so the 
analysis and decision outlined in one assessment will not necessarily reflect 
the ACCC’s view of another transaction. 
b. As assessments are relatively brief and do not refer to confidential 
information, assessments do not necessarily set out all of the issues and 
information considered by the ACCC. 
The parties and the proposed transaction 
Sigma 
6. Sigma is an ASX-listed wholesaler and distributor of prescription medicines (including 
Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS) prescriptions), over the counter (OTC) and 
front of store (FOS) products to over 4,000 community pharmacies nationally. 
7. Sigma’s core business activities include: 
a. wholesale and distribution of prescription medicines, OTC products and FOS 
products to both its franchisees and independent pharmacies 
b. providing brand and support services to approximately 400 community 
pharmacies operating as franchisees under Sigma banners of Amcal, 
Discount Drug Store and PharmaSave  
c. operating a buying group1 – the PriceSave program – for approximately 445 
independent pharmacies, and 
d. supplying private label products under the brands ‘Pharmacy Care’, Beauty 
Theory’ and ‘Amcal Plus’. 
8. Sigma also owns and operates MPS Connect Pty Ltd which offers medication 
packing services and management solutions to pharmacies and aged care providers. 
At the time of the decision, Sigma held 51 per cent of the shares in NostraData Pty 
Ltd which supplies technology and data analytics solutions to pharmacies, 
wholesalers and manufacturers.2 
Chemist Warehouse 
9. Chemist Warehouse is an unlisted Australian public company. It is a franchisor to 
approximately 600 pharmacies and retail stores under the following banners: 
Chemist Warehouse, MyChemist, Ultra Beauty, My Beauty Spot, and Optometrist 
Warehouse. Approximately 550 of these are Chemist Warehouse and MyChemist 
pharmacies. 
10. Chemist Warehouse provides brand and support services to its franchisee 
pharmacies, including but not limited to: 
a. media, advertising, marketing, licensing and financial support services 
b. supply of FOS and OTC products including Chemist Warehouse owned, 
private label and exclusive consumer brands, and 
c. support services such as negotiating supply terms on behalf of franchisees 
with suppliers and manufacturers to distribute FOS and OTC products. 
 
1 Buying groups are groups formed for the purposes of negotiating the cost of medicines and products with wholesalers or 
manufacturers. Wholesalers may also provide group buying offers to pharmacies. 
2 Sigma’s current shareholding is 45.9 per cent. 


 
3 
 
11. Chemist Warehouse also owns private label product brands which it sells online and 
supplies to its franchisees. These include Wagner, Bambi Mini, Barely, Bondi Protein 
Co, Inc, and Goat. 
12. Chemist Warehouse operates six distribution centres to support the distribution of 
FOS and OTC products to its franchisees. Chemist Warehouse obtains wholesale 
supply of prescription, OTC and FOS products from Sigma. 
The proposed transaction 
13. On 11 December 2023, Sigma and Chemist Warehouse entered into a merger 
implementation agreement under which Sigma would acquire all the shares in 
Chemist Warehouse in exchange for Sigma shares and a $700 million cash 
consideration.  
14. Upon completion of the proposed acquisition (February 2025), Chemist Warehouse 
shareholders will hold 85.75% of the ASX listed merged entity while Sigma 
shareholders will hold 14.25%. The transaction is in effect a reverse acquisition of 
Sigma by Chemist Warehouse. 
Market Inquiries 
15. The ACCC conducted market inquiries with a range of industry participants including 
independent and franchise community pharmacies, pharmacy wholesalers, 
manufacturers and suppliers of products sold via the pharmacy channel, pharmacy 
representative bodies, regulatory bodies, and other interested parties including the 
general public. 
16. The ACCC consulted on both the competition issues associated with the proposed 
acquisition, and the Undertaking. 
17. The ACCC also obtained confidential information, data and documents from the 
merger parties and interested parties. 
Industry background 
18. On 13 June 2024, the ACCC published a Statement of Issues (SOI)3 which included 
information (paragraphs 26 – 46) about the pharmacy industry in Australia, including: 
a. information regarding community pharmacies 
b. an overview of banner and buying groups 
c. information regarding wholesalers 
d. an overview of suppliers and manufacturers 
e. an overview of the pharmacy supply chain 
f. the Therapeutic Goods Act and Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme regulations 
g. Community Service Obligations (CSO) Funding Pool 
h. pharmacy location rules, and 
i. 
pharmacy ownership regulation. 
19. This background information is not repeated in this Public Competition Assessment.  
 
3 See ACCC Sigma Healthcare – Chemist Warehouse Group – Statement of Issues. 


 
4 
 
Vertical competition concern: impact on retail pharmacies via 
potential discriminatory supply terms by the merged entity  
20. The ACCC considered whether the proposed acquisition, which combines Sigma’s 
wholesale business with Chemist Warehouse’s downstream franchising business, 
would be likely to substantially lessen competition in pharmacy retailing. This could 
occur if the merged entity discriminates against pharmacies supplied by Sigma in 
favour of Chemist Warehouse pharmacies and if these pharmacies are foreclosed 
from accessing alternative wholesale supply of pharmacy products, including FOS, 
OTC and/or PBS products.  
21. Specifically, the ACCC considered whether the merged entity, in its role as 
wholesaler to non-Chemist Warehouse pharmacies could: 
a. degrade price and supply terms to non-Chemist Warehouse pharmacies, 
and/or  
b. give preferential supply and pricing terms to pharmacies operating under the 
merged entity’s banner groups.  
22. If the merged entity had the ability and incentive to engage in such conduct and 
these pharmacies were partly or fully foreclosed, the competitive constraints on 
Chemist Warehouse pharmacies could be lessened. As a result, Chemist Warehouse 
pharmacies (and potentially also Sigma banner pharmacies) could profitably raise 
prices and/or decrease the quality of goods and services to the detriment of 
consumers.  
23. While Chemist Warehouse (and Sigma) banner pharmacies will not be directly 
owned by the merged entity, the merged entity may have the incentive to engage in 
discriminatory conduct and favour certain stores if it increased overall profits for the 
merged firm.  
Ability to foreclose non-Chemist Warehouse pharmacies  
24. The ACCC considered whether the merged entity would have the ability to foreclose 
retail pharmacies’ access to wholesale supply of pharmaceutical products. A key 
focus was the potential foreclosure of non-Chemist Warehouse pharmacies supplied 
by Sigma.   
25. The ACCC considers that in the present circumstances pharmacy wholesalers 
EBOS, API and (to a lesser extent) CH2 present retail pharmacy owners with 
meaningful alternatives to the merged entity. The Undertaking enables those 
pharmacies which are currently supplied by Sigma to easily switch away from Sigma 
to one of the rival wholesalers. This ability to switch supplier means the merged entity 
faces effective competition in supplying these pharmacies (as well as other 
pharmacies) and is unable to foreclose those pharmacies’ access to wholesale 
supply.  
Alternative wholesalers and franchisors  
26. Feedback from market participants indicated that national wholesalers API and 
EBOS are sufficient and equivalent alternatives to Sigma as wholesalers. Market 
feedback also indicated that CH2 has a growing presence in national wholesale 
pharmacy supply.  
27. In addition, each alternative wholesaler has spare capacity to take on and supply 
new retail pharmacy customers.  


 
5 
 
28. As such, the ACCC considers that there are competitively effective rival wholesalers 
for Sigma-supplied pharmacies to switch to if the merged entity sought to degrade 
their price and supply terms or otherwise discriminate against them.   
Switching costs 
29. In considering the risk of foreclosure, the ACCC also considered how easy it would 
be for Sigma-supplied pharmacies to switch wholesalers.  
30. The ACCC found that retail pharmacies frequently switch wholesalers and many 
Sigma wholesale customers face minimal barriers to switching.  
31. However, a pharmacy’s ability to switch from Sigma to another wholesaler varies 
depending on its contractual obligations to Sigma. Some pharmacies are in long term 
agreements with Sigma and/or may have received financial assistance which they 
would be required to repay if they ceased using Sigma as their wholesaler. 
32. The costs of exiting a franchise agreement are also typically much higher than 
switching wholesalers as leaving a franchise agreement involves repayment of 
financial contributions from the franchisor, and changing signage, branding, 
administrative systems such as Point of Sale (PoS), uniforms, and other aspects of 
the pharmacy. Franchise and wholesale agreements also can be interlinked, making 
it difficult for a pharmacy owner to exit the wholesale agreement without also exiting 
the franchise agreement. As such, Sigma banner pharmacies face significant costs 
and difficulty exiting their wholesale agreements with Sigma. This may leave them 
more vulnerable to the risk of being discriminated against by the merged entity. 
33. To address these concerns, Sigma offered the Undertaking which includes the 
commitment not to prevent or hinder current franchisees, wholesale or buying group 
customers from exiting their agreements with Sigma. As part of this commitment, 
Sigma also waives its right to recover contributions it has already made under its 
agreements, such as sign-on incentives. Together, these obligations reduce the 
switching costs for Sigma franchisee and wholesale customers. 
Regulatory restrictions  
34. The wholesale supply of PBS products is price regulated and as a CSO wholesaler, 
Sigma is subject to limits on the extent to which it could refuse supply or raise the 
prices for wholesale PBS products to pharmacies that compete with its own banner 
and franchise pharmacies.  
35. The ACCC considered the possibility that the merged entity may cease to function as 
a CSO wholesaler which would remove the application of the regulatory requirements 
on the merged firm and enable it to either refuse supply of pharmacy products to 
certain pharmacies or offer them on discriminatory terms. Such conduct would 
reduce the number of competitively effective wholesale options for the supply of PBS 
products to pharmacies leading to potential foreclosure of retail pharmacies.   
36. The Undertaking addresses this concern by including a commitment by Sigma to 
remain a CSO wholesaler for five years, and therefore be bound by the CSO 
requirements.  
Incentive to foreclose non-Chemist Warehouse pharmacies 
37. As set out above, the ACCC concluded that given the presence of competitively 
effective rival wholesalers, and taking into account the Undertaking, the ability of the 
merged Sigma Chemist Warehouse to engage in foreclosure of retail pharmacies is 
low, and therefore the proposed acquisition is unlikely to substantial lessening 
competition in pharmacy retailing. 


 
6 
 
38. The ACCC therefore has not addressed in detail the merged entity’s incentives post-
acquisition to engage in a discriminatory supply strategy. 
Vertical competition concern: impact on pharmacy retailing due to 
potential misuse of Sigma acquired data by the merged firm  
39. The ACCC also considered whether there would be a likely substantial lessening of 
competition in retail pharmacy should the merged entity use or threaten to use 
commercially sensitive data from Sigma pharmacy customers to limit the ability of 
those pharmacies to compete against Chemist Warehouse banner pharmacies.  
40. Sigma, as a wholesaler and/or franchisor, has access to commercially sensitive data 
and information regarding the pharmacies to which it supplies products and services. 
The ACCC considered whether the merged entity could access and use that data to 
constrain or limit rival Sigma-supplied pharmacies’ ability to compete against Chemist 
Warehouse pharmacies. For example, the ACCC considered whether: 
a. the merged entity could use pharmacy customers’ data to pre-empt 
competitive strategies such as product promotions. Access to retail pharmacy 
information such as order volumes could enable the merged entity to identify 
a likely upcoming promotion and to use this information to advantage Chemist 
Warehouse banner pharmacies, e.g. by matching or pre-empting the 
promotion, thereby reducing the benefits of the promotion to the rival 
pharmacy. This would lead to Sigma-supplied pharmacies being less able to 
compete against Chemist Warehouse banner pharmacies. 
b. the merged entity could use insights from commercially sensitive pricing data 
to target rival pharmacies, e.g. by undercutting them on key product pricing or 
by pre-empting planned pricing changes. This could undermine their viability 
and force them to exit so that the licence could be acquired for a Chemist 
Warehouse store. 
41. The ACCC’s investigation confirmed the commercial sensitivity of the information 
about Sigma’s wholesale customers and franchisees that the merged firm would hold 
post-acquisition and the scope for this information to be misused to advantage 
Chemist Warehouse (or other Sigma supplied) pharmacies.  
42. However, the ACCC considers that if Sigma franchisees and customers can switch 
away from using Sigma as a wholesaler and/or franchisor, this would reduce the 
incentive for the merged entity to use current and future data to discriminate against 
these pharmacies.  
43. The ACCC also considered the extent to which historical data that Sigma may retain 
regarding its customers after they exit agreements with Sigma may remain valuable 
and capable of misuse. The ACCC found that while much of this data would lose its 
commercial value as time progresses, other data, in particular financial data such as 
pharmacy valuation and loans, could still potentially be used by the merged entity to 
limit the competitiveness of exiting pharmacies.  
44. To address these concerns, the Undertaking offered by Sigma provides that the 
merged entity will delete all commercially sensitive data of a Sigma franchisee or 
wholesale customer that exits its agreements with Sigma. This commitment by Sigma 
is subject to very limited exceptions to ensure that Sigma will not delete data it is 
required to maintain to meet its CSO requirements or for other legal reasons. 
45. As it may take time for Sigma franchisees and wholesale customers to exit 
agreements with Sigma, the Undertaking also includes a provision that Sigma will 


 
7 
 
limit the access and use of the exiting pharmacies’ data from the date when a 
pharmacy notifies Sigma of their intention to terminate. 
46. In addition, as set out in paragraphs 29 to 33, the Undertaking also reduces the 
switching costs of Sigma franchisees and wholesale customers.   
47. The ACCC concluded that, with the Undertaking, the merged entity is unlikely to be 
able to use Sigma acquired data to substantially lessen retail pharmacy competition.  
Horizontal competition concern: impact on pharmacy retailing due 
to overlap in pharmacy retailers  
48. The ACCC considered whether the proposed acquisition was likely to substantially 
lessen competition in pharmacy retailing at a national, regional or local level by 
lessening the competitive constraint Chemist Warehouse and Sigma pharmacies 
impose on each other, which may allow them to:  
a.  increase prices and/or  
b. reduce service quality including removing or altering the differentiated product 
and service offering at Sigma pharmacies.  
49. The ACCC looked at this potential competitive effect at the state/national level and in 
local areas. The ACCC found the proposed acquisition is unlikely to substantially 
lessen competition in pharmacy retailing for the reasons set out below.   
Relevant markets 
Product dimension 
50. All retail pharmacies offer a combination of PBS and non-PBS prescriptions, OTC 
and FOS products to consumers.  
51. The ACCC considered whether the retailing of a combination of prescription, OTC 
and FOS products in a pharmacy setting constitutes a single market, or whether the 
supply of prescription, OTC and FOS products should be viewed as separate 
markets.  
52. Different regulations apply to the supply of prescription and OTC products while FOS 
products are not subject to any pharmacy regulations. The prices of prescription 
medicines listed on the PBS are regulated.4 In addition, only pharmacies can 
dispense prescription medicines and most OTC medicines can only be dispensed in 
pharmacies or by pharmacists (at least for certain dosages or pack sizes).5 These 
regulations do not apply to the supply of unscheduled FOS products and medicines 
to consumers, which may also be sold in supermarkets and other retail outlets. 
53. While the ACCC recognised that the nature of competition for the retail sale of PBS, 
OTC and FOS products differs, the ACCC did not need to reach a concluded view on 
the precise product dimension of the relevant market/s in order to reach a view on 
the proposed acquisition. 
Geographic dimension 
54. Similar to many essential and grocery products, consumers typically purchase 
pharmacy products in a local area. The supply of retail pharmacy products therefore 
has local dimensions.  
 
4 See National Health Act 1953 Pt VII Div 2. 
5 National Health Act 1953 s 90. 


 
8 
 
55. However, Chemist Warehouse’s and Sigma’s pharmacy franchise systems operate 
nationally. In addition, while there are differences between regions and states in 
terms of the operation of smaller pharmacy banner groups (i.e. some smaller groups 
only operate in certain regions or states) and independent pharmacies, the major 
pharmacy chains (including those owned by API and EBOS) operate nationally. 
56. Further, the prices, product range, service offering and other competitive choices at 
Chemist Warehouse pharmacies appear to be made at a national level. Sigma and 
other large pharmacy franchisors also appear to set price and service level guidance 
and arrangements at a national level (or sometimes a regional level) and have some 
influence or control in assuring that this guidance is implemented. 
57. As such, the ACCC considered state-based and national competitive dynamics in its 
assessment of the proposed acquisition.   
58. In addition to this state/national consideration, the ACCC considered competition 
between Sigma and Chemist Warehouse pharmacies in local markets in which both 
were present. Despite the apparent state or national control of key elements of the 
price and non-price offering by the major operators, individual pharmacy owners 
have some ability to adjust their price and service quality in response to local market 
dynamics. Further, other elements that affect quality of service provided, such as the 
level of staffing, the store amenity, and the level of individual care are likely to be 
impacted by competition in the local area. 
59. To assess the relevant local markets, the ACCC analysed the competitive constraints 
on Chemist Warehouse’s and Sigma’s pharmacies at an individual store level.  
Influence over banner pharmacies  
60. The ACCC found that Chemist Warehouse exerts significant influence over price and 
non-price decisions at its banner pharmacies. Sigma does not influence price and 
non-price decisions at its banner pharmacies (Amcal, Discount Drug Store and 
PharmaSave) to the same extent as Chemist Warehouse.  
61. The ACCC concluded that while the merged entity may attempt to increase its 
influence over price and non-price decisions at Sigma banner pharmacies post-
acquisition, the influence that Chemist Warehouse exerts over its banner pharmacies 
is unique in pharmacy retailing, and has arisen as a result of the history, corporate 
structure, and culture of Chemist Warehouse.  
62. Sigma has a different corporate structure and culture to Chemist Warehouse and the 
ACCC considered it unlikely that the merged entity would replicate effectively the 
Chemist Warehouse model of influence over Sigma banner pharmacies, with Sigma 
banner group pharmacy owners continuing to make their own commercial decisions, 
post-acquisition.  
63. As such, the ACCC considered that it was not appropriate to aggregate the Chemist 
Warehouse and Sigma pharmacies for the purposes of assessing the impact of this 
acquisition on retail pharmacy competition.  
64. While the ACCC reached this view, the ACCC did consider the impact of the overlap 
on national, state and local markets for pharmacy retailing.  
National, state-based and local market competition  
65. Even if the merged entity could exert significant influence over both Chemist 
Warehouse and Sigma pharmacies, the proposed acquisition is unlikely to raise 
significant competition concerns in national, state-based or local markets for 
pharmacy retailing because:  


 
9 
 
• 
Chemist Warehouse and Sigma banner pharmacies are not each other’s 
closest competitors 
• 
there are many other pharmacy competitors that will constrain the merged 
entity 
• 
non-pharmacy retailers (including supermarkets) compete for FOS and some 
categories of OTC products, and  
• 
for most prescription products, pricing controls prevent pharmacies raising 
prices.  
66. Each of these factors is discussed in greater detail below.  
Closeness of competition 
67. The ACCC found that Sigma banner pharmacies and Chemist Warehouse 
pharmacies are not each other’s closest competitors.  
68. The ACCC found that discount pharmacies such as Priceline, Direct Chemist Outlet, 
Cincotta Discount Pharmacy and Pharmacy4Less compete most closely with 
Chemist Warehouse pharmacies and are likely to continue to do so post-acquisition.  
69. Sigma pharmacies’ closest competitors are, and are likely to continue to be, other 
service-oriented pharmacies such as TerryWhite Chemmart, Soul Pattinson, and 
numerous independent pharmacies. 
Pharmacy competitors likely to constrain the merged entity 
70. There are numerous pharmacies that will compete with the merged entity post-
acquisition. These include:  
• 
large, national pharmacy banner groups operated by API (e.g. Priceline, Soul 
Pattinson) and EBOS (e.g. TerryWhite Chemmart) 
• 
large banner groups that operate in one or more states (e.g. IPA Group’s 
Advantage and Alliance pharmacies) 
• 
smaller banner groups that operate in some states (e.g. Cincotta Discount 
Pharmacy, Blooms the Chemist), and 
• 
independent pharmacies.  
Non-pharmacy retailers compete for FOS and some OTC product categories 
71. FOS products and some categories of OTC products are sold at multiple highly 
competitive non-pharmacy retailers, including supermarkets (e.g. Coles, 
Woolworths), beauty stores (e.g. Sephora, Mecca) and online retailers (e.g. 
Amazon). 
72. The ACCC found that such non-pharmacy retailers impose a meaningful competitive 
constraint on Chemist Warehouse and Sigma pharmacies in relation to many FOS 
products and some OTC product categories.  
73. The ACCC concluded that these non-pharmacy retailers are likely to continue to 
impose a strong competitive constraint on the merged entity’s pharmacies, and that 
as such, the proposed acquisition is unlikely to materially impact competition for FOS 
and some categories of OTC products.  
PBS prescription products are highly price regulated  
74. As set out above, pharmacies sell a combination of prescription, OTC and FOS 
products.  


 
10 
 
75. PBS prescriptions account for most prescription product sales and are heavily price 
regulated by the PBS. This means pharmacies are unable to raise prices beyond set 
limits and reduces the ability for pharmacies to meaningfully compete on price in 
relation to these products. Consequently, the ACCC concluded that the proposed 
acquisition is unlikely to materially impact price competition for PBS prescription 
products.  
Vertical competition concern: impact on supply of pharmaceutical 
products due to potential foreclosure of rival suppliers’ access to 
customers 
76. The ACCC considered whether the proposed acquisition was likely to substantially 
lessen competition by foreclosing pharmacy product suppliers6 access to consumers. 
In particular, the ACCC considered whether the merged entity would be able to 
prevent suppliers of products that compete with the merged entity’s private label 
products from accessing a significant proportion of consumer demand, potentially 
lessening competition in upstream pharmaceutical product manufacture and supply. 
Such a strategy would involve the merged entity ceasing to supply the rival suppliers’ 
products to retail pharmacies Sigma wholesale supplies to, including Chemist 
Warehouse and Sigma banner pharmacies. 
77. The ACCC considered whether the merged entity was likely to be a significant supply 
channel for suppliers of pharmacy products, such that suppliers not stocked by the 
merged entity would be rendered less competitively effective. A reduction in rival 
suppliers’ ability to compete could lead to an increase in retail prices for the relevant 
products. 
78. However, the ACCC concluded that, even if the merged entity did decide not to stock 
rival supplier(s) of particular pharmaceutical products, this would be unlikely to 
foreclose such suppliers’ access to consumers. This is because: 
a. suppliers of FOS and most OTC products have a wide range of pathways to 
consumers, as these products can and are sold in numerous retailers 
including supermarkets, health food stores, and discount stores 
b. for prescription and OTC products that can only be sold to consumers by 
pharmacies, suppliers would continue to have access to a competitive 
wholesale market. Other wholesalers (e.g. EBOS and API) are viable 
alternatives to the merged entity and rival suppliers could use these 
wholesalers to distribute their products to pharmacies, and through them, 
consumers, and 
c. suppliers face minimal barriers to switching to these alternative wholesalers. 
79. On this basis, the ACCC found that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to 
substantially lessen competition by enabling the foreclosure of pharmacy product 
suppliers’ access to consumers.  
Competition concern: impact of proposed acquisition on market 
structure, potentially raising barriers to entry and expansion 
 
6 Prescription, OTC and FOS products sold in Australia are either procured from manufacturers that produce 
them, or suppliers that source them from manufacturers (usually due to the product not being produced in 
Australia). Both are considered “suppliers” for the purposes of the ACCC’s competition assessment.  
 


 
11 
 
80. Chemist Warehouse is a significant retail pharmacy business in Australia. It has 
significant control over its banner pharmacies and owns several pharmacy product 
brands (which are supplied in Chemist Warehouse stores). Sigma is one of three 
major pharmacy wholesalers, and supplies pharmacy products to many independent 
pharmacies and Sigma-banner pharmacies (which are also independently owned).  
81. Given the significance of the transaction and in particular, the high level of vertical 
integration which would result, the ACCC considered whether the proposed 
acquisition was likely to cause a significant and longer-term structural change in the 
pharmacy sector. In particular, the ACCC considered whether the increased vertical 
integration would make entry and expansion at a single level of the supply chain less 
viable, reducing the level of competition at each level over time, including leading to 
fewer supply options for independent pharmacies. 
82. The ACCC found that the increased vertical integration caused by the proposed 
acquisition is unlikely to result in widespread structural change in the supply chain. 
As discussed above, suppliers of pharmacy products continue to have wholesale and 
retail options for the sale of their products, and pharmacies continue to have 
alternative wholesalers from which they can purchase. As such, the ACCC 
considered that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to increase barriers to entry and 
expansion for those parties focussed on one level of the supply chain. The operation 
of state pharmacy ownership regulations, which generally restrict the number of 
pharmacy businesses a pharmacist or other eligible person or corporation is 
permitted to own or have a relevant interest in7 assist in perpetuating the current 
market structure.  
83. As such, the ACCC found that despite the increased vertical integration, the 
proposed acquisition is unlikely to result in widespread structural change in the 
market or increase barriers to entry and expansion at any level of the supply chain 
such that competition would be substantially lessened.  
The Undertaking  
84. In order to address the ACCC’s competition concerns in relation to retail pharmacy 
markets Sigma offered the Undertaking pursuant to section 87B of the Act.  
85. The ACCC spoke to a range of market participants for feedback on the Undertaking, 
including independent and franchise community pharmacies, pharmacy wholesalers, 
manufacturers and suppliers of products sold via the pharmacy channel, pharmacy 
representative bodies, regulatory bodies, and other interested parties, including the 
general public. 
86. As outlined in the sections above and following these inquiries, the ACCC considers 
that the Undertaking will address its competition concerns with the proposed 
acquisition.  
87. A copy of the Undertaking is available on the ACCC mergers register and 
undertakings register.  
88. A brief summary of the Undertaking is set out at paragraph 2 above.  
 
7 Health Practitioner National Law 2010 (NSW) Sch 5F, s 5(1); Pharmacy Act 2010 (WA) s 54(1); Pharmacy Business Ownership 
Act 2001 (Qld), ss 139B; Health Practitioner Regulation National Law (South Australia) Act 2010 (SA), s 51(1a); Pharmacy 
Regulation Act 2010 (Vic) s 5(1); Pharmacy Control Act 2001 (Tas) ss 62(1)(a), 61C; Health Practitioners Act 2004 (NT) Sch 7 s 
2. 


 
12 
 
Conclusion  
89. Based on the analysis outlined above, the ACCC concluded that the proposed 
acquisition of Chemist Warehouse by Sigma, in the absence of the Undertaking, 
would be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in retail 
pharmacy markets.   
90. The ACCC was concerned that, absent this Undertaking, the merged entity may have 
the ability and incentive to worsen terms to non-Chemist Warehouse pharmacies that 
were in competition with Chemist Warehouse banner pharmacies, which may be 
likely to substantially lessen competition. The ACCC was also concerned that the 
Proposed Acquisition may have enabled the merged entity to access and use 
commercially sensitive data of Sigma franchisees and wholesale customers in a way 
that damages retail pharmacy competition. The ACCC’s third concern was that post 
acquisition Sigma may choose to cease to be a CSO wholesaler and only supply 
pharmacy products to its franchisees, reducing the number of available CSO 
wholesale options for pharmacies.  
91. The ACCC considered that the Undertaking addresses the competition concerns 
raised such that the proposed acquisition would not be likely to have the effect of 
substantially lessening competition in any market in Australia.  
