 
 
 
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
tel: (02) 6243 1368 
mergers@accc.gov.au
www.accc.gov.au
Our ref:  IM-72819 
7 February 2025 
Dear Interested Party 
Request for submissions: Intellihub’s proposed acquisition of Powermetric 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
Intellihub Australia Pty Ltd (Intellihub)’s proposed acquisition of Powermetric Metering Pty 
Ltd (Powermetric) (the Proposed Acquisition).  
Intellihub and Powermetic both provide smart metering services in Australia, to commercial 
and industrial, mass market and embedded network customers. Further details about the 
parties and the proposed acquisition are provided at Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact of the Proposed Acquisition on 
competition. In particular, we are seeking your views on: 
• 
the closeness of competition between Intellihub and Powermetric in the supply of 
smart metering services to commercial and industrial customers 
• 
the extent to which services provided to commercial and industrial customers differ 
from services provided to mass market (including residential and small to medium 
business customers) and/or embedded network customers  
• 
the barriers to entry and expansion in the supply of smart metering services 
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
Please provide your response by 24 February 2025 via email with the title: Submission re: 
Intellihub/Powermetric. If you require more time to respond, please let us know. 
If you would like to arrange a time to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any 
questions about this letter, please contact mergers@accc.gov.au.   


2 
 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public 
Mergers Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC treats sensitive information it receives during a merger review as confidential, 
and will not publish your submission. We will not disclose submissions to third parties 
(except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of 
information legislation or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the 
Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, we will notify you in advance where possible so that you have an opportunity to 
be heard. Therefore please clearly indicate if any information you provide is confidential. 
Our Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on 
confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
Morag Bond 
General Manager  
Merger Investigations


3 
 
Attachment A  
 
Proposed Acquisition 
Intellihub proposes to acquire Powermetric. Intellihub and Powermetric both supply 
smart metering services in Australia.  
 
The acquirer – Intellihub 
Intellihub is a utility services company based in Australia and New Zealand which is 
50% owned by each of Brookfield and Pacific Equity Partners. Intellihub provides 
multi-utility services, including electricity and water metering, asset management, 
installation, and day-to-day operations of smart utility infrastructure. Intellihub 
provides smart metering services for mass market, commercial and industrial, and 
embedded network customers. 
 
The target – Powermetric 
Powermetric is a smart metering provider which is 100% owned by Shell Energy 
Operations Pty Ltd. Powermetric primarily supplies smart metering services to 
commercial and industrial customers, and to a more limited extent mass market and 
embedded network customers.  
 
 
Smart metering services  
A smart meter, also known as an advanced meter, is a device that is physically 
installed at a customer’s premises which digitally measures and records that 
customer’s energy usage. It provides real-time information to customers and/or 
retailers on the customer’s energy usage without the need for a manual reading of 
the meter itself.  
Smart meters can also: 
• 
allow a customer’s electricity supply to be remotely switched on and off 
without the need for a field technician to physically do so; 
• 
remotely measure the power quality at a customer’s premises; and 
• 
notify a customer’s electricity retailer or distributor when a customer’s power 
goes out.  
Metering service providers act as Metering Coordinators under the regulatory regime 
for the National Electricity Market. Metering Coordinators: 
• 
install and maintain smart meters at customer’s premises; and 
• 
collect, analyse and share smart meter data. 
 
Supply of smart metering services to commercial and industrial customers 
Commercial and industrial customers are generally large businesses which can 
acquire metering services: 
• 
directly from metering service providers 
• 
via brokers that negotiate with metering service providers on behalf of 


4 
 
commercial and industrial customers, or 
• 
via electricity retailers, if the customer chooses to. 
Commercial and industrial customers may contract for metering services for single 
sites or portfolios of sites, and formal tender processes are frequently run to award 
these contracts. 
Commercial and industrial customers in Australia generally already have smart 
meters installed. Metering service providers compete to win contracts to replace 
existing smart meters or to install initial smart meters and provide services at new 
customer sites. 
 
 


5 
 
Attachment B 
1. 
Provide a brief description of your business or organisation.  
2. 
Outline the reasons for your interest in the Proposed Acquisition, including 
any commercial relationship/s with Intellihub, Powermetric, Brookfield, Pacific 
Equity Partners and/or Shell Energy Operations. 
The questions below are divided into questions for customers and competitors, but 
you are welcome to comment on any question/s in any category. 
Questions for customers of smart metering services 
3. 
Identify and describe the types of smart metering services you acquire in 
Australia.  
4. 
Identify your current suppliers of these services, including the length of time 
you have used each supplier. 
5. 
Describe how you acquire smart metering services, for example, through 
formal tender or other methods. 
6. 
Identify the key factors that you consider when selecting a metering service 
provider (e.g. price, capacity, experience, data handling ability). Describe how 
non-price factors are assessed. 
7. 
For each smart metering service you acquire in Australia, identify and 
describe prospective suppliers capable of servicing your needs.  
Questions for competitors  
8. 
Identify the smart metering services you supply in Australia. For each service 
you supply: 
a. identify the geographic locations where you supply 
b. identify your competitors for the service, and 
c. provide estimated shares of supply in Australia. 
9. 
Describe any ownership links or long term contractual relationships you have 
with any businesses in related sectors.  
10. 
Identify the types of customers which you supply smart metering services to 
(e.g. commercial and industrial, mass market or embedded network). If your 
organisation’s focus is on the supply of smart metering services to a specific 
customer type, comment on the ease and difficulty for your organisation to 
expand its offering to other customer types.  
11. 
Explain the basis on which you compete for the provision of metering services 
(e.g. price, capacity, experience, data handling ability).  
12. 
Explain the main requirements that must be met to supply metering services 
in Australia. In your response, you may wish to consider: 
a. regulatory and other accreditations, including minimum standards set 
out in the National Electricity Rules, required to provide metering 
services 
b. the time and costs involved with entry or expansion 


6 
 
c. the scale necessary to compete at competitive prices 
d. the ease of securing customers and contracts for supply, and 
e. any other barriers.  
Explain whether any of these requirements differ depending on the type of 
customers that are being supplied. 
13. 
Discuss the likelihood of, and timeframe for, new entry or expansion in the 
supply of smart metering services. Identify any recent examples of new entry 
or expansion where possible. 
14. 
Discuss the ability of other metering service providers in Australia to compete 
with Intellihub and Powermetric.  
Additional information and competition issues   
15. 
Describe whether and to what extent competing metering service providers 
would, post-acquisition, constrain Intellihub from increasing prices and/or 
decreasing service levels for the supply of smart metering services, including 
factors such as locations serviced, capacity, experience and data handling 
ability. 
16. 
Provide any additional information or comments that you consider relevant to 
the ACCC’s consideration of the proposed acquisition. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
