 
 
Page 1 of 16 
 
 
Public Competition Assessment 
4 August 2014 
BlueScope Steel Ltd – proposed acquisition of the OneSteel 
Sheet & Coil business from Arrium Limited 
Introduction 
1. 
On 6 March 2014, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) 
announced its decision not to oppose the proposed acquisition of certain assets of the 
OneSteel Sheet and Coil business and other associated entities (OS&C) from Arrium 
Limited by BlueScope Steel Ltd (BlueScope) (the proposed acquisition), subject to a 
court enforceable undertaking (the undertaking) pursuant to section 87B of the 
Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the Act).  
2. 
The ACCC decided that, with the undertaking, the proposed acquisition would be 
unlikely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in any market in 
contravention of section 50 of the Act.  
3. 
The ACCC made its decision on the basis of information provided by the merger 
parties, information arising from its market inquiries and other relevant industry 
sources of publicly available and confidential information. This Public Competition 
Assessment outlines the basis on which the ACCC reached its decision on the 
proposed acquisition, subject to confidentiality considerations. 
Public Competition Assessment 
4. 
To provide an enhanced level of transparency and procedural fairness in its decision 
making process, the ACCC issues a Public Competition Assessment for all transaction 
proposals where: 
 
a proposed acquisition is opposed; 
 
a proposed acquisition is subject to enforceable undertakings; 
 
the merger parties seek such disclosure; or 
 
a proposed acquisition is not opposed but raises important issues that the ACCC 
considers should be made public. 
5. 
This Public Competition Assessment has been issued because the proposed 
acquisition is considered to raise issues of public interest in relation to the steel 
industry and is subject to a court enforceable undertaking.  
6. 
By issuing Public Competition Assessments, the ACCC aims to provide the public with 
a better understanding of the ACCC's analysis of various markets and the associated 
merger and competition issues.  


 
 
Page 2 of 16 
 
7. 
Each Public Competition Assessment is specific to the particular transaction under 
review by the ACCC. While some transaction proposals may involve the same or 
related markets, it should not be assumed that the analysis and decision outlined in 
one Public Competition Assessment will be conclusive of the ACCC’s view in respect 
of other transaction proposals, as each matter will be considered on its own merits. 
8. 
Public Competition Assessments outline the ACCC’s principal reasons for forming 
views on a proposed acquisition at the time the decision was made. As such, Public 
Competition Assessments may not definitively identify and explain all issues that the 
ACCC considers arise from a proposed acquisition. Further, the ACCC’s decisions 
generally involve consideration of both non-confidential and confidential information 
provided by the merger parties and market participants. In order to maintain the 
confidentiality of particular information, Public Competition Assessments do not refer to 
any confidential information or its sources. 
9. 
This Public Competition Assessment outlines the circumstances and assessment at 
the time of the ACCC decision. Events that have occurred post the ACCC decision that 
are relevant to this matter are clearly identified. 
The parties 
The acquirer: BlueScope  
10. 
BlueScope is a large vertically integrated steel manufacturer and distributor listed on 
the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX). 
11. 
BlueScope is the only manufacturer in Australia of steel slab through its Port Kembla 
steelworks. The steelworks has a capacity of 2.6 million tonnes per annum. Through 
its subsidiary Coated and Industrial Products Australia (CIPA), BlueScope processes 
steel slab into a range of steel products classified as ‘flat steel’ products. Further 
information on the flat steel products supply chain is provided below. 
12. 
In addition to CIPA, BlueScope owns and operates a number of businesses at various 
levels of the flat steel supply chain, including in steel products distribution and 
processing and steel product manufacturing. Of particular relevance to the proposed 
acquisition are BlueScope's sheet and coil distribution businesses.  
Sheet Metal Supplies and Impact Steel  
13. 
Sheet Metal Supplies (SMS) and Impact Steel are BlueScope's sheet and coil 
processing and distribution subsidiaries. They both process and distribute flat steel 
products throughout Australia to customers in a range of industries including 
residential and non-residential construction, mining, transport, automotive 
components, farming and other manufacturing sectors. 
14. 
BlueScope also has a steel and tube distribution subsidiary called BlueScope 
Distribution. It distributes mainly long steel products (for example, pipe and tube 
products) and steel plate.  
Arrium 
15. 
Arrium (formerly OneSteel) is an international mining and materials company listed on 
the ASX. Of most relevance to the proposed acquisition is Arrium's sheet and coil 
processing and distribution business.  
16. 
The ACCC also notes, although unrelated to the proposed acquisition, that Arrium's 
OneSteel Manufacturing business is the only manufacturer of long steel products in 
Australia.  


 
 
Page 3 of 16 
 
The target: OS&C 
17. 
OS&C is a processor and distributor of flat steel products including hot rolled coil 
(HRC), plate, cold rolled coil (CRC), galvanized coil, aluminium zinc coated coil, and 
painted coil. OS&C operates from four sites in Granville (Sydney), Hemmant 
(Brisbane), Kilburn (Adelaide) and Bibra Lake (Perth). 
Industry Background  
Flat steel products  
18. 
The steel supply chain in Australia is complex with a number of functional levels, 
numerous types of steel products, multiple inputs into various manufacturing 
processes and a global dynamic through imports and exports. 
19. 
Steel producers use inputs such as iron ore, coal and steel scrap to form raw steel 
either through the method of using a basic oxygen furnace, or an electric arc furnace. 
Raw steel is then passed through a casting machine which moulds and solidifies the 
steel into semi-finished steel products known as 'slab', 'billets' or 'blooms'. Steel slab 
then undergoes further processing to produce a range of 'flat' steel products. Billets 
and blooms are further processed into 'long' steel products. It is flat steel products 
which are relevant to the proposed acquisition.  
20. 
Flat steel products are steel products produced from steel slab. Specifically, steel slab 
is reheated and passed through a rolling mill to produce HRC or a form of 'steel plate'. 
HRC may be subject to further processing to manufacture CRC and coil plate. CRC 
may be sold 'as is', or may undergo further processing to produce 'metallic coated 
steel/coil' or 'painted steel/coil'. Figure 1 shows the place of sheet and coil distribution 
in the flat steel supply chain, which is relevant to the proposed acquisition.  
Figure 1: Sheet and Coil distribution in the flat steel supply chain 
 


 
 
Page 4 of 16 
 
21. 
As noted above, with the limited exception of some painted coil products, BlueScope 
CIPA is the only Australian manufacturer of flat steel products. These flat steel 
products are then supplied by BlueScope CIPA to manufacturers for use as inputs to 
further downstream manufacturing (such as roll-forming, pipe and tube manufacturing, 
other general manufacturing such as automotive). BlueScope CIPA also supplies 
these flat steel products to sheet and coil distributors.  
22. 
The other source of flat steel products is via imports, either directly from an overseas 
steel mill or through an Australian based import trader. Imports may be in a processed 
or unprocessed form.   
23. 
Relevant to the proposed acquisition is the processing and distribution of sheet and 
coil products. This industry sector is outlined below.  
Sheet and coil processing and distribution  
24. 
Sheet and coil distributors generally sell the main flat steel product categories being 
HRC, plate, CRC, galvanized coil, aluminium zinc coated coil and painted coil. Sheet 
and coil distributors source inputs from either BlueScope CIPA or through imports. 
Imports are sourced either via locally based traders or directly from overseas steel 
mills.  
25. 
Sheet and coil distributors can be vertically integrated with a steel mill, as is the case 
with SMS, or they can be a BlueScope-aligned distributor where they choose to 
purchase the bulk of their inputs from BlueScope, or they may be independent 
purchasers of steel products that source from a mix of BlueScope CIPA and imports or 
solely from imports.   
26. 
Sheet and coil distributors in most cases do not stock long steel products, such as 
merchant bar and structural pipe and tube products. These products are distributed by 
what the industry refers to as 'steel and tube' distributors. In some limited cases, 
particularly in regional areas, a distributor may stock both flat and long steel products, 
however these instances appear to be rare due to different customer profiles and 
distinct storage and processing equipment requirements. 
27. 
Sheet and coil products may be distributed as unprocessed (i.e. ex-mill) or processed. 
The processing function in sheet and coil distribution is outlined below.   
28. 
Distributors form a link between the steel mills and customers who, due to the size of 
their purchasing, are not able to obtain supply directly from a steel mill. The other 
features or characteristics of sheet and coil distribution compared to supply from a 
steel mill are:  
 
distributors are located close to customers (there are distribution outlets in each 
of the major metropolitan centres);  
 
distributors provide a wide product range, short order to delivery times, low 
minimum volumes and other associated services such as product support and 
less onerous credit terms than if the customer were to acquire steel direct from a 
manufacturer; and 
 
some distributors offer processing services.  
29. 
Customers that acquire sheet and coil direct from steel mills, as opposed to through a 
distributor, tend to be large manufacturers with the requisite large volume of demand 
to purchase product direct. These customers also have sizeable warehouse space to 
store large volumes of sheet and coil products and the cash flow to pay mills for large 
volumes of sheet and coil.  
 


 
 
Page 5 of 16 
 
Processing 
30. 
Some sheet and coil distributors have in-house processing capability through the 
presence of slitting (cutting steel coil length-wise), and/or shearing (cutting steel coil 
cross-wise) and/or recoiling equipment. Processing enables the distributor to supply 
individual customers with sheet and coil products that meet their dimensional 
requirements. The distributor undertakes the processing function at its site prior to 
delivery to the customer's premises. It appears that a large proportion of sheet and coil 
distribution customers require processed sheet and coil in some form.  
31. 
The common industry practice is for sheet and coil distributors without in-house 
processing capability to enter into 'toll processing' arrangements with rival distributors 
that do have in-house processing capability, or in some cases standalone processing 
businesses. Toll processing arrangements enable distributors without in-house 
processing capability to supply processed sheet and coil products. Processing is 
discussed further below in the market definition section. 
32. 
Figure 2 provides a broad representation of the sheet and coil distribution supply chain 
and the proposed acquisition's place in the supply chain. 
Figure 2: Sheet and coil distribution and the proposed acquisition 
 
Other industry participants  
Southern Steel Group (Southern Steel) 
33. 
Southern Steel is a large privately owned steel distributor. It provides processing and 
distribution services for a range of flat steel products from sites in Sydney, Melbourne, 
Brisbane and Adelaide. Brice Metals is a subsidiary of Southern Steel based in South 
Australia.  


 
 
Page 6 of 16 
 
CMC Australia (CMC) 
34. 
CMC is part of a global steel recycling, manufacturing, fabricating and trading 
company (Commercial Metals Company). CMC processes and distributes sheet and 
coil from sites in Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. CMC also distributes sheet and 
coil products from a site in Perth but does not offer processing services.  
Selection Steel Group (Selection Steel) 
35. 
Selection Steel is predominantly an importer of flat steel products and distributor from 
a number of sites throughout Australia. Selection Steel has processing equipment in 
Melbourne and utilises toll processing arrangements in other states. 
Apex Steel 
36. 
Apex Steel is a sheet and coil distributor with sites in New South Wales, Queensland, 
Victoria and South Australia. Apex Steel has processing equipment in New South 
Wales and Victoria and utilises toll processing arrangements in other states.  
Vulcan Steel 
37. 
Vulcan Steel is based in Brisbane providing distribution and processing services for a 
range of flat steel products in Queensland.  
The proposed transaction 
38. 
On 14 October 2013, BlueScope announced that it proposed to acquire from Arrium 
certain assets of the OS&C processing and distribution business. 
39. 
At that time, the ACCC was also conducting simultaneous public reviews of 
BlueScope’s proposed acquisitions of certain assets of: 
 
the Orrcon Steel pipe and tube manufacturing and steel and tube distribution 
businesses; and 
 
the Fielders roll formed products business,  
both from Hills Holdings Limited.  
40. 
The ACCC announced on 5 December 2013 that it would not oppose the Orrcon Steel 
proposed acquisition. The ACCC published a Statement of Issues in respect of the 
Fielders acquisition on 5 December 2013 and announced that it would not oppose the 
proposed acquisition on 30 January 2014. The ACCC has published Public 
Competition Assessments in both these matters.  
Review timeline 
41. 
The following table outlines the timeline of key events in this matter.  
Date  
Event  
15 October 2013 
ACCC commenced review under the Merger Review 
Process Guidelines. 
1 November 2013 
Closing date for submissions from interested parties. ACCC 
assessing information provided during market inquiries and 
consulting with merger parties on any relevant issues or 
concerns arising. 


 
 
Page 7 of 16 
 
14 November 2013 
ACCC requested further information from merger parties. 
3 December 2013 
ACCC received further information from the merger parties. 
ACCC amended former provisional date for announcement 
of findings (5 December). 
19 December 2013 
ACCC published a Statement of Issues outlining preliminary 
competition concerns. 
24 January 2014 
Closing date for submissions relating to Statement of Issues. 
ACCC assessing information provided during market 
inquiries and consulting with merger parties on relevant 
issues or concerns arising. 
7 February 2014 
Draft 87B undertaking proffered by BlueScope. 
11 February 2014 
ACCC commenced market inquiries on draft s87B 
undertaking. 
12 February 2014 
Closing date for submissions regarding BlueScope's draft 
s87B undertaking. 
6 March 2014 
ACCC announced it would not oppose the proposed 
acquisition subject to an undertaking accepted by the ACCC. 
Statement of Issues 
42. 
The ACCC issued a Statement of Issues (SoI) on 19 December 2013. In the SoI, the 
ACCC identified one issue which raised significant competition concerns, and three 
issues which it considered were unlikely to raise competition concerns. 
43. 
The ACCC considered that the proposed acquisition was likely to result in a substantial 
lessening of competition in the sheet and coil processing and distribution market in 
Western Australia. The ACCC noted that BlueScope and OS&C were each other’s 
closest competitors in Western Australia. In particular, market inquiries indicated that 
BlueScope and OS&C were the only significant distributors with processing capability. 
Due to this processing capability, for a large pool of customers, the merger parties 
were considered the only viable alternatives for the distribution of sheet and coil 
products.  
44. 
In the SoI the ACCC expressed the preliminary view that the merged firm would be 
unlikely to be constrained by alternative distributors, such as CMC, and the ability of 
customers to utilise direct imports of processed sheet and coil products.  
45. 
The ACCC identified in the SoI that the proposed acquisition was unlikely to raise 
competition concerns in regard to: 
 
sheet and coil distribution in other markets;  
 
rival sheet and coil distributors’ access to inputs; and 
 
rival sheet and coil distribution input suppliers’ access to customers. 


 
 
Page 8 of 16 
 
Market inquiries  
46. 
The ACCC conducted market inquiries with a range of interested parties, including 
rival distributors, customers of distributors and industry associations. Following the 
release of the SoI and the provision of the draft undertaking by BlueScope, market 
inquiries focused on customers and distributors in Western Australia and whether the 
undertaking would remedy the ACCC’s competition concerns.  
Future with/without the proposed acquisition 
47. 
Section 50 of the Act prohibits mergers or acquisitions that would have the effect or be 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. In assessing 
a proposed acquisition pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC considers the 
effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future competitive environment post-
acquisition if the acquisition proceeds (the “with” position) to the likely future 
competitive environment if the acquisition does not proceed (the “without” position) to 
determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to substantially lessen competition 
in any relevant market. 
48. 
Arrium publicly indicated its intention to divest its non-integrated steel businesses, 
including OS&C. The ACCC considered that absent the proposed acquisition Arrium 
would look to divest OS&C in its entirety to another purchaser or would sell individual 
sites and associated assets (e.g. processing equipment) to other purchasers. As a 
consequence, the ACCC concluded that in the absence of the proposed acquisition, 
the OS&C business and its associated assets would remain in the relevant markets as 
an independent alternative to BlueScope’s sheet and coil distribution businesses.  
Areas of overlap  
49. 
BlueScope and OS&C overlapped in sheet and coil processing and distribution in the 
following regions:  
 
North-Eastern Australia (centred in Brisbane); 
 
Central-Eastern Australia (centred in Sydney);  
 
South Australia (centred in Adelaide); and 
 
Western Australia (centred in Perth).  
Relevant Markets 
50. 
The ACCC considered the proposed acquisition in the context of the following markets:  
 
regional markets for sheet and coil processing and distribution in: 
o 
North-Eastern Australia; 
o 
Central-Eastern Australia;  
o 
South Australia; and 
o 
Western Australia. 
 
national markets for the supply of each of the following sheet and coil distribution 
inputs: 
o 
 plate; 
o 
 HRC;  
o 
 galvanised coil;  


 
 
Page 9 of 16 
 
o 
 aluminium zinc coil;  
o 
 CRC; and 
o 
 painted coil,  
(collectively, sheet and coil distribution inputs). 
51. 
An overview of these markets is provided below.   
Sheet and coil processing and distribution 
Product dimension 
52. 
Sheet and coil distributors supply a range of flat steel products, including HRC, CRC, 
galvanised coil, aluminium zinc coil, and painted coil in both processed and 
unprocessed forms. To the extent that distributors do not offer a certain product 
category, it appears they can readily expand utilising their existing warehousing and 
equipment to offer a wider range. These products can be sourced with relative ease 
from either BlueScope CIPA or through imports. 
53. 
The ACCC considered that distributors can be distinguished by whether they have in-
house processing capability (e.g. shearing and slitting equipment) or not.  Distributors 
that have in-house processing capability distribute processed and unprocessed 
products, and may offer toll processing to distributors that do not have processing 
capability. Distributors that do not have in-house processing capability supply 
unprocessed products, and may also supply processed products through utilising a toll 
processing arrangement.  
54. 
The equipment necessary to offer processing services (e.g. a shear line) is capital 
intensive, involves economies of scale such that minimum efficient scale may be large 
relative to market size, takes a lengthy period to source and install and also consumes 
a significant area of land. For these reasons, smaller distributors often enter into toll 
processing agreements with distributors that have processing equipment (or 
standalone processing businesses). The ability of distributors to enter a toll processing 
agreement on competitive terms will be dependent on the number of parties that offer 
such services in the geographic area. 
55. 
In most markets customers generally do not distinguish between distributors that have 
processing capability and those that do not. The industry practice of entering into toll 
processing arrangements means that distributors without processing capability may 
often be substitutable from a customer perspective with distributors that do have 
processing capability.  
56. 
Due to specific end-use requirements, there is little scope for demand side substitution 
between various sheet and coil products (e.g. HRC and CRC), and further between 
specific grades and dimensions of products. In addition, there is no scope to substitute 
between processed sheet and coil products and unprocessed sheet and coil products. 
A customer that requires coil to be slitted to a particular dimension would not consider 
non-slitted coil to be an alternative.   
57. 
In addition, in most cases direct imports by customers of unprocessed, and in 
particular processed, products are not a substitute for domestic sheet and coil 
products distributed by companies such as OS&C. Customers in most cases do not 
have the volume requirements to make direct purchases from a steel mill or via an 
intermediary (e.g. import traders) viable.  Further, direct imports by customers face 
other barriers such as the lengthy timeframes for delivery, difficulty matching supply 
volumes with demand, and the risk of damage to product during shipment.  


 
 
Page 10 of 16 
 
58. 
The ACCC concluded that for the purposes of considering the proposed acquisition, a 
broad market encompassing distributors with and without processing capability was 
appropriate. Nonetheless, the ACCC noted that BlueScope and OS&C had processing 
capabilities at all sites and as a consequence the focus of the ACCC’s review was on 
whether the removal of OS&C as a distributor with processing capability, including 
offering toll processing arrangements to rival distributors, would impact on the large set 
of customers that require processed sheet and coil products.  
Geographic dimension 
59. 
As noted above BlueScope and OS&C overlapped in four separate regions of Australia 
(Western Australia, South Australia, North-Eastern Australia and Central-Eastern 
Australia). The ACCC considered that these regions represent relevant geographic 
markets for considering the proposed acquisition. Market inquiries indicated that due to 
high transport costs and the need for short delivery times, customers did not consider 
that distributors located in another region are alternatives to a closely located 
distributor. 
Supply of sheet and coil distribution inputs 
Product dimension 
60. 
The following flat steel products are the key product inputs into sheet and coil 
distribution:  
 
plate; 
 
HRC;  
 
galvanised coil; 
 
aluminium zinc coil; 
 
CRC; and 
 
painted coil.  
61. 
Due to the specific end use requirements of their customers, distributors are not able 
to substitute between the different types of input (e.g. HRC and galvanised coil) and 
grades and dimensions of coil. 
62. 
Most suppliers of inputs (BlueScope CIPA, import traders, overseas steel mills) supply 
a wide range of the flat steel inputs in the grades and dimensions required by 
Australian sheet and coil distributors. As a consequence, the ACCC concluded that it 
was appropriate to define separate product markets for each of the main sheet and coil 
distribution inputs as opposed to narrower markets based on other factors, such as 
grade or dimension. In the competition assessment below the ACCC has referred to 
these separate product markets as collectively ‘sheet and coil distribution inputs’.   
Geographic dimension 
63. 
The ACCC concluded that the geographic scope of the sheet and coil distribution input 
markets is national. BlueScope CIPA from its Port Kembla steelworks and other 
suppliers, such as import traders, supply sheet and coil distributors across Australia. 
Competition Assessment 
64. 
As noted above, BlueScope and OS&C overlapped in sheet and coil distribution in four 
regions. As a consequence, the ACCC considered whether the aggregation of 
BlueScope and OS&C would provide the merged firm with the ability to unilaterally 


 
 
Page 11 of 16 
 
increase the price and/or decrease service in sheet and coil distribution in each of 
these regions.  
65. 
The ACCC also considered the potential competition issues resulting from the 
proposed acquisition by virtue of BlueScope being the only Australian manufacturer of 
almost all sheet and coil distribution inputs. The acquisition of OS&C would increase 
BlueScope’s vertical integration into sheet and coil distribution. This increased vertical 
integration raised two potential theories of harm which were considered by the ACCC: 
 
whether BlueScope would have the ability and incentive to raise rival distributors’ 
costs by foreclosing the supply of these inputs, potentially reducing competition 
in sheet and coil distribution in the relevant regional markets; and 
 
whether BlueScope may have the ability and incentive to significantly foreclose 
competing suppliers’ (i.e. import traders) access to customers, potentially 
resulting in a substantial lessening of competition in the supply of sheet and coil 
distribution inputs.  
66. 
These potential competition issues are considered below.  
Reduced competition in sheet and coil distribution in Western Australia 
67. 
Market inquiries prior to the publication of the SoI indicated that the horizontal 
aggregation of BlueScope and OS&C was most likely to raise competition concerns in 
the sheet and coil distribution market in Western Australia. The SoI considered that the 
removal of OS&C as a distributor with processing capability would likely provide 
BlueScope with unilateral market power to increase prices and/or decrease service in 
that region. 
Closeness of competition and alternative distributors 
68. 
The ACCC’s investigation found BlueScope and OS&C to be each other’s closest 
competitors in sheet and coil distribution in Western Australia. In particular, the merger 
parties competed closely in respect of pricing, service, range of products and terms of 
delivery for the processing and distribution of sheet and coil products.  
69. 
Importantly the merger parties were the only two significant sheet and coil distributors 
in Western Australia with processing capability. For a large pool of customers the 
merger parties were considered the main alternatives for sheet and coil distribution. 
70. 
 Market inquiries indicated that OS&C was considered by many customers as a strong 
competitor which regularly offered sheet and coil products at lower prices than 
BlueScope and on more favourable terms of supply, including longer payment periods. 
In addition, OS&C offered customers imported sheet and coil products, including 
products requested by individual customers. The ACCC considered that post-
acquisition BlueScope would be unlikely to offer imported sheet and coil products due 
to its vertically integrated sheet and coil manufacturing operations in BlueScope CIPA.  
71. 
The ACCC concluded that post-acquisition alternative distributors were unlikely to 
impose a strong competitive constraint on the merged firm’s sheet and coil distribution 
business in Western Australia. Alternative sheet and coil distributors in Western 
Australia, including CMC, West Coast Steel and Brice Metals, do not have their own 
processing capability and would be dependent on the merged firm for access to toll 
processing arrangements. This would limit their ability to compete for the large pool of 
customers who require processed flat steel products.  In addition, customers 
expressed the view that these alternative distributors were not competitive with the 
merger parties in terms of price and product range.  
72. 
Smaller distributors and new entrants in regions other than Western Australia often 
rely on toll processing arrangements in order to offer processed sheet and coil 


 
 
Page 12 of 16 
 
products. In these regions there are a number of distributors that offer toll processing. 
However, in Western Australia it is only the merger parties that offer toll processing 
arrangements to other distributors. Post-acquisition the ability of rival distributors 
without processing capability, such as CMC and West Coast Steel, to provide a 
constraint on the merged firm would be further restricted through only having the 
merged firm as an option for a toll processing arrangement. 
Imports as an alternative 
73. 
The ACCC concluded that direct imports of processed and unprocessed sheet and coil 
products would not be a strong alternative to the merged firm post-acquisition.  
74. 
The ACCC was aware of instances where large customers in Western Australia 
directly imported unprocessed and processed sheet and coil products. Imports are 
often managed on the customer’s behalf by an import trader or distributor, such as 
Brice Metals, and are transported to Perth and then delivered to the customer’s site. 
75. 
The ACCC found that direct imports by customers tend to be only feasible for 
customers that utilise large volumes of sheet and coil products and have predictable 
manufacturing operations and downstream demand for their products. The lengthy 
lead time (3 – 4 months) associated with the delivery of imports means they are not 
suitable for customers that utilise the sheet and coil products in the manufacture of 
items that have variable demand or short lead times for delivery, such as project based 
work.  
76. 
Market inquiries with large customers also indicated that barriers to utilising direct 
imports include the need for additional warehousing at the customer’s site to store the 
coil and the cash flow implications of having to order large volumes of inventory that 
have a long lead time for delivery.  
77. 
To the extent that processed sheet and coil products are imported it tends to be by 
large customers that import in standard dimensions, not customised dimensions which 
often requires further processing. Imports of processed products appear to be sporadic 
in nature and often on a spot basis. The ACCC understands that imported processed 
product is much more susceptible to damage than unprocessed product. The ACCC 
considered that direct imports would not represent a competitive alternative to the 
supply of processed sheet and coil products from the merged firm.   
Barriers to entry and expansion 
78. 
The ACCC concluded that barriers to entry and expansion in sheet and coil distribution 
are high and the merged firm would not be constrained by the threat of entry.  
79. 
In order to provide a viable constraint on the merged firm the ACCC considered that 
any new entrant or expanding incumbent would require processing capability either by 
buying processing equipment or entering into tolling arrangements with a third party.  
80. 
Distributors submitted to the ACCC that the cost of new processing equipment (shear 
and slitting lines) is capital intensive, approximately $4–-5 million, particularly in a 
market of low or declining demand. The market for second hand equipment appears to 
be limited. Further, market inquiries indicated that a distributor would be reluctant to 
invest this capital, adding significant additional capacity to a market which is 
experiencing negative sales growth and low profitability, and with incumbent 
distributors currently having significant excess capacity that could be deployed against 
any new entrant or expanding distributor.  
81. 
The timeframe for installing and making operational the processing equipment would 
be approximately 12 – 18 months and the equipment requires a significant area of land 
at a distribution site.   


 
 
Page 13 of 16 
 
82. 
Based on market inquiries, the ACCC considered that if the merged firm were to 
increase prices and/or decrease service, it would be unlikely that rival distributors or 
potential new entrants (e.g. distributors based in other regions) would invest in the 
processing capability and incur the other associated entry/expansion costs necessary 
to constrain the merged firm.  
83. 
The ACCC also considered that the proposed acquisition was likely to raise barriers to 
entry and expansion for sheet and coil distribution in Western Australia. Some sheet 
and coil distributors have previously utilised toll processing arrangements as a means 
to facilitate entry in other markets and build up a critical mass of customers prior to 
making a decision on whether investment in processing capability is warranted.  
84. 
The merger would result in BlueScope being the only significant provider of toll 
processing arrangements in Western Australia and would decrease its incentive to 
offer a new entrant competitive toll processing services. As a consequence, a new 
entrant in Western Australia would likely have to enter with processing capability which 
would significantly increase the investment associated with entry as opposed to 
utilising toll processing to facilitate entry.   
Conclusion – sheet and coil distribution in Western Australia 
85. 
The ACCC concluded that absent the undertaking offered by BlueScope the proposed 
acquisition would likely have resulted in a substantial lessening of competition in the 
market for sheet and coil distribution in Western Australia. The ACCC’s assessment of 
the undertaking is provided later in this Public Competition Assessment.  
Sheet and coil distribution in other regional markets 
86. 
The ACCC also considered whether the aggregation of BlueScope and OS&C would 
enable the merged firm to unilaterally raise prices or decrease customer service in 
sheet and coil distribution in the North-Eastern Australia, Central-Eastern Australia and 
South Australian regional markets. 
87. 
The ACCC concluded that in each of the three markets the merged firm would be 
constrained by a number of alternative distributors which offer a similar range of sheet 
and coil products and have excess capacity to expand were the merged firm to attempt 
to increase price or degrade service levels.  
88. 
The ACCC noted that in each of these regional markets there are a number of 
alternative distributors with in-house processing capability. These alternative 
distributors offer processed sheet and coil products to customers and additionally enter 
into toll processing arrangements with other sheet and coil distributors. 
89. 
Switching costs are low for customers wishing to move between distributors as formal 
supply agreements or contracts are not common. Indeed, large customers often have 
a dual sourcing strategy. In addition, a number of customers often obtain sheet and 
coil products on a spot or project basis and are able to obtain quotes from a number of 
distributors before selecting the supplier based on price, service and product 
availability.  
90. 
Market inquiries identified that customers were not concerned with the effect of the 
acquisition on sheet and coil distribution in South Australia, North-Eastern Australia 
and Central-Eastern Australia.  
91. 
As with Western Australia the ACCC is of the view that barriers to entry are high and 
the merged firm is unlikely to be constrained in the foreseeable future by the threat of 
entry in these markets. Nonetheless, the merged firm would be constrained by the 
presence of alternative distributors with in-house processing capability in all states, 
which also offer toll processing arrangements.  


 
 
Page 14 of 16 
 
Foreclosure of rival sheet and coil distributors’ access to inputs 
92. 
As outlined above, BlueScope’s CIPA subsidiary is, with the exception of painted coil, 
the only domestic manufacturer of sheet and coil distribution inputs. As a 
consequence, the ACCC investigated whether the proposed acquisition would provide 
BlueScope with an increased ability and/or incentive to leverage any market power it 
may have in the supply of these inputs to raise rival distributors’ costs by foreclosing 
access to sheet and coil inputs or supplying at discriminatory prices (and/or other 
terms of supply). 
93. 
The ACCC’s review focused on the extent to which imports represented a viable 
alternative to BlueScope CIPA in the supply of sheet and coil distribution inputs and 
thereby an option for sheet and coil distributors in the event that BlueScope pursued a 
foreclosure strategy.  
94. 
The ACCC considered that imports represent a strong alternative source of supply to 
BlueScope CIPA and therefore a close competitive constraint. The ACCC concluded 
that the constraint that imports provide on BlueScope CIPA’s supply is represented by 
the significant volumes of imports over a number of years.  
95. 
Imports of aluminium zinc and galvanised coil have represented 35% – 40% over the 
past three years for the overall supply of these products, including supply to sheet and 
coil distributors. The ACCC was aware of a number of sheet and coil distributors that 
rely predominantly on overseas steel mills or domestic import traders for their supply of 
inputs. 
96. 
In addition, the ACCC received information that indicated a strong correlation between 
BlueScope CIPA’s price of most sheet and coil distribution inputs and import prices for 
the respective inputs.  
97. 
Market inquiries and other information received by the ACCC indicated that 
BlueScope’s applications for anti-dumping and countervailing duties in respect of 
certain steel products, including sheet and coil distribution inputs (e.g. HRC and 
galvanised coil) have had an impact on the competitive constraint imposed by imports 
on BlueScope CIPA. This impact appears to be reflected in lower volumes and higher 
pricing of imported steel products following the lodgement of a number of anti-dumping 
applications since May 2012. Nevertheless, the overall import levels of the major sheet 
and coil distribution inputs remain significant. 
98. 
The ACCC recognised that importing sheet and coil distribution inputs imposes 
additional logistical challenges, particularly through longer lead times. However, the 
ACCC considered that these challenges can be overcome as evidenced by the volume 
of sheet and coil distribution inputs that are imported.  
99. 
Consistent with the review of BlueScope’s proposed acquisition of Fielders, the ACCC 
found that BlueScope’s COLORBOND range of painted coil products enjoy strong 
customer loyalty and a dominant share of the painted coil products supplied in 
Australia. However, for sheet and coil distributors painted coil products represent a 
small proportion of the overall value and volume of sales and the acquisition is unlikely 
to increase BlueScope’s ability or incentive to engage in anti-competitive bundling.  
100. The ACCC concluded that imports represent a viable alternative source of supply for 
the majority of sheet and coil distribution inputs and that were BlueScope to attempt to 
pursue a foreclosure strategy then rival sheet and coil distributors would be able to 
defeat it through utilising imports.  


 
 
Page 15 of 16 
 
Foreclosure of rival steel coil suppliers’ access to customers 
101. The ACCC considered whether BlueScope’s rival sheet and coil distribution input 
suppliers (i.e. import traders) would lack sufficient alternative customers following the 
loss of OS&C as an independent customer. This could reduce rivals’ economies of 
scale, thereby increasing their costs and reducing competition to BlueScope in the 
supply of these inputs. 
102. The ACCC concluded that the acquisition was unlikely to cause a substantial lessening 
of competition in the market for the supply of sheet and coil distribution inputs. While 
OS&C is a significant acquirer of sheet and coil distribution inputs, from BlueScope 
CIPA and via imports, rival suppliers would continue to have a large pool of potential 
customers post-acquisition. These potential customers include other sheet and coil 
distributors and the large pool of other contestable customers of steel products present 
in other markets, including downstream manufacturing of various steel products.   
Undertaking 
103. In order to remedy competition concerns identified by the ACCC in respect of sheet 
and coil distribution in Western Australia, BlueScope proposed to divest its processing 
equipment, associated assets and transfer the lease of its sheet and coil distribution 
site in Western Australia (divestiture assets) to a purchaser to be approved by the 
ACCC. BlueScope offered the ACCC a court enforceable undertaking, pursuant to 
section 87B of the Act, to commit to this divestiture. 
104. The ACCC investigated whether the court enforceable undertaking proposed by 
BlueScope would address the competition concerns identified by the ACCC in sheet 
and coil distribution in Western Australia.  
Proposed Purchaser – Selection Steel 
105. The ACCC considered that Selection Steel Trading Pty Ltd (Selection Steel) would be 
able to operate the divestiture assets effectively in Western Australia and that following 
the divestiture of the assets and transfer of the lease to BlueScope’s sheet and coil 
distribution site in Perth, would represent a standalone, long term, independent and 
effective competitor in sheet and coil distribution in Western Australia.   
106. In its assessment of Selection Steel as the proposed purchaser of the divestiture 
assets the ACCC noted: 
 
Selection Steel is an experienced distributor of sheet and coil steel products in 
Western Australia and a distributor of sheet and coil steel products, including 
with processing capability, in other states; 
 
customers of Selection Steel in Victoria provided positive feedback regarding 
Selection Steel’s price competitiveness, service, delivery times and product 
quality; and 
 
processing and distribution customers in Western Australia indicated a 
willingness to switch to obtaining supply of processed sheet and coil steel 
products from Selection Steel if Selection Steel is price competitive.  
107. The ACCC was satisfied that the scope of the divestiture package was sufficient to 
provide Selection Steel with the assets, technical assistance, and interim supply of 
sheet and coil products necessary to establish itself as a viable, independent and long 
term competitor to BlueScope in sheet and coil distribution in Western Australia. The 
divestiture package included BlueScope’s shear line and slitter, and the lease over the 
site at which these machines are installed.  


 
 
Page 16 of 16 
 
108. The ACCC considered that Selection Steel was sufficiently independent of BlueScope 
and the fact that Selection Steel purchases small volumes of flat steel products from 
BlueScope was unlikely to result in Selection Steel having a reduced incentive to 
compete with BlueScope in sheet and coil distribution in Western Australia.  
109. Accordingly, the ACCC was satisfied that Selection Steel was a suitable purchaser of 
the divestiture assets.   
Conclusion  
110. On the basis of the above, including taking into account the proposed undertaking, the 
ACCC formed the view that the proposed acquisition of OS&C by BlueScope would be 
unlikely to result in a substantial lessening of competition in any market in 
contravention of section 50 of the Act. 
 
