 
Public Competition Assessment 
13 March 2008 
Sumitomo Forestry Company Limited - proposed acquisition of 
certain assets of Carter Holt Harvey Limited's Woodproducts 
Australia business 
Introduction 
1. 
On 27 February 2008, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission 
(ACCC) announced its decision to oppose the proposed acquisition (proposed 
acquisition) of certain Carter Holt Harvey Limited assets (CHH) by Sumitomo 
Forestry Company Limited (SFC). The ACCC was of the view that the proposed 
acquisition would be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening 
competition in the national market for the manufacture and supply of raw 
medium density fibreboard (MDF) and was also likely to foreclose competition 
downstream in the supply of value added MDF in contravention of section 50 of 
the Trade Practices Act 1974 (the Act). 
2. 
The ACCC formed its view on the basis of the information provided by the 
merger parties and information arising from its market inquiries. This Public 
Competition Assessment outlines the basis on which the ACCC has reached its 
decision on the proposed acquisition, subject to confidentiality considerations. 
Public Competition Assessment 
3. 
To provide an enhanced level of transparency and procedural fairness in its 
decision making process, the ACCC issues a Public Competition Assessment for 
all transaction proposals where: 
▪ 
a merger is opposed; 
▪ 
a merger is subject to enforceable undertakings; 
▪ 
the merger parties seek such disclosure; or 
▪ 
a merger is approved but raises important issues that the ACCC considers 
should be made public. 
4. 
This Public Competition Assessment has been issued because SFC’s proposed 
acquisition of CHH’s assets was opposed by the ACCC. 
5. 
By issuing Public Competition Assessments, the ACCC aims to provide the 
public with a better understanding of the ACCC’s analysis of various markets and 


SFC - proposed acquisition of certain assets of CHH’s Woodproducts Australia business 
the associated merger and competition issues. It also alerts the public to the 
circumstances where the ACCC’s assessment of the competition conditions in 
particular markets is changing, or likely to change, because of developments.  
6. 
Each Public Competition Assessment is specific to the particular transaction 
proposal under review by the ACCC. While some transaction proposals may 
involve the same or related markets, it should not be assumed that the analysis 
and decision outlined in one Public Competition Assessment will be conclusive 
of the ACCC’s view in respect of other transaction proposals, as each matter will 
be considered on its own merits.  
7. 
Many of the ACCC’s decisions will involve consideration of both non-
confidential and confidential information provided by the merger parties and 
interested parties. In order to maintain the confidentiality of particular 
information, Public Competition Assessments do not contain any confidential 
information or its sources. While the ACCC aims to provide an appropriately 
detailed explanation of the basis for the ACCC decision, maintaining 
confidentiality will be the ACCC’s paramount concern. Accordingly, a Public 
Competition Assessment may not definitively explain the analysis of all issues. 
The parties 
The acquirer: Sumitomo Forestry Company Limited  
8. 
SFC is one of Japan’s largest timber product and housing businesses. In 
Australia, SFC owns (through a wholly owned subsidiary) Alpine MDF 
Industries Limited (Alpine). Alpine is a manufacturer and supplier of raw MDF. 
Alpine manufactures raw MDF from its plant located near Wangaratta, Victoria 
and supplies to both the domestic and export markets.  
9. 
In addition to its Australian operations, SFC manufactures and supplies raw MDF 
and laminated veneer lumber (LVL) in New Zealand through its wholly owned 
subsidiary Nelson Pine Industries Ltd (Nelson Pine) and has other wood 
processing investments in Indonesia manufacturing particleboard, plywood and 
value added wood products.  
10. 
SFC supplies its wood panel products in Australia through a network of third 
party distributors.  
The target: Carter Holt Harvey Limited – Woodproducts Australia assets 
11. 
CHH is a forest products company operating in Australasia, with significant 
interests in wood products, pulp, paper and packaging.  
12. 
CHH’s wood products businesses include Woodproducts Australia and two New 
Zealand businesses: Woodproducts New Zealand and Carters. CHH is currently 
seeking to sell several of its wood products businesses in Australia and New 
Zealand, including the assets of Woodproducts Australia.  
-2- 


SFC - proposed acquisition of certain assets of CHH’s Woodproducts Australia business 
13. 
Woodproducts Australia operates predominantly in the softwood products 
segment of the building materials industry. Its main products include: softwood 
sawn timber, LVL, plywood, particleboard, raw MDF and value added MDF 
products including MDF mouldings and low pressure melamine (LPM) 
decorative panels.  
14. 
CHH manufactures raw MDF at its Oberon plant in New South Wales (NSW). 
CHH supplies raw MDF to both the domestic and export markets.  
Other Market Participants 
15. 
There are currently three manufacturers/suppliers of raw MDF in Australia: SFC, 
CHH and Laminex Group Pty Ltd (Laminex).  
16. 
Laminex is currently Australia’s largest producer of raw MDF and has its own 
downstream secondary MDF manufacturing operations which produce decorative 
MDF panel products. Laminex supplies raw MDF and value added MDF 
products through its own distribution network as well as third party distributors. 
Laminex supplies raw MDF to both the domestic and export markets. 
Areas of overlap 
17. 
SFC and CHH overlap in the manufacture and supply of raw MDF. 
18. 
The proposed acquisition would see the number of raw MDF 
manufacturers/suppliers in Australia reduced from three to two. 
The proposed acquisition 
19. 
SFC proposed to acquire the following assets of Woodproducts Australia: 
▪ 
raw MDF manufacturing plant located in Oberon, NSW; 
▪ 
MDF moulding manufacturing plant in Oberon, NSW;  
▪ 
particleboard manufacturing plants located at Gympie, Queensland (QLD), 
Tumut and Oberon, NSW and Mt Gambier, South Australia (SA);  
▪ 
decorative panel manufacturing plants located at Oberon and Tumut, NSW 
and Mt Gambier, SA; and  
▪ 
chemical resins manufacturing plant located at Oberon, NSW. 
Industry Background 
20. 
MDF is a wood-based panel product. Applications include kitchen and bathroom 
cabinets, furniture and office and shop fit outs. MDF is formed by combining fine 
wood chips with wax and resin, applying high temperature and pressure and 
running through a hot press to produce raw MDF panels.  
-3- 


SFC - proposed acquisition of certain assets of CHH’s Woodproducts Australia business 
21. 
The wood inputs for raw MDF in Australia (largely pine) are usually sourced 
through long-term contracts with private and government-owned plantations that 
last up to 30 years. MDF manufacturing plants tend to be located in close 
proximity to the relevant wood resources due to high transport costs.  
22. 
The amino resins used to manufacture raw MDF can currently be sourced from 
three domestic manufacturers: Hexion (VIC and QLD), Woodchem1 (NSW) and 
Dynea2 (WA). Due to transportation costs and the short shelf life of amino resins, 
the resins manufactured in WA are generally not supplied to raw MDF customers 
on the eastern seaboard.  
23. 
Raw MDF manufacturers/suppliers produce raw MDF sheets in a variety of types 
(including moisture resistant, standard and low formaldehyde) and a range of 
sizes which are then supplied to distributors and/or secondary MDF 
manufacturers. In some instances, raw MDF manufacturers/suppliers also 
perform the distribution and/or secondary MDF manufacturing function.  
24. 
In particular, Laminex is vertically integrated such that it has significant 
secondary MDF manufacturing operations and distributes a significant proportion 
of its value added MDF products through its own distribution network. CHH 
performs some secondary MDF manufacturing through its MDF mouldings and 
decorative panel operations, but generally uses third party distributors. SFC only 
produces raw MDF. 
25. 
Value added MDF products can broadly be divided into:  
▪ 
aesthetically finished boards - including melamines, veneers and vinyl which 
are largely used for kitchen and bathroom cabinets, wall units, tables, chairs, 
wardrobes, doors and desks; and 
▪ 
partitions and mouldings (architraves, skirting boards, door jambs) which 
involve cutting and shaping raw MDF boards.  
26. 
In addition to producing value added MDF products, some secondary MDF 
manufacturers also act as distributors of raw MDF and value added MDF 
products.  
27. 
The three main categories of customers that purchase raw and value added MDF 
include: 
▪ 
cabinet makers - producing kitchen and bathroom cabinets;  
▪ 
furniture manufacturers - producing furniture including dining tables, chairs 
and wardrobes; and 
▪ 
office and shop fit out installers - producing office furniture and shop fittings.  
28. 
These customers then sell their products to retail outlets and tradespeople.  
                                                 
1 Woodchem is currently owned by CHH. 
2 Dynea is a joint venture operation between Dynea Australia Pty Ltd and Laminex. 
-4- 


SFC - proposed acquisition of certain assets of CHH’s Woodproducts Australia business 
Timing 
29. 
The following table outlines the timeline of key events in this matter. 
Date 
Event 
30-Nov-2007 
 
14-Dec-2007 
18-Dec-2007 
 
11-Jan-2008 
 
16-Jan-2008 
 
23-Jan-2008 
 
 
30-Jan-2008 
 
 
31-Jan-2008 
 
 
 
27-Feb-2008 
ACCC commenced its review under the Merger Review Process 
Guidelines. 
Closing date for submissions from interested parties. 
ACCC requested further information from SFC. ACCC timeline 
suspended. 
ACCC received further information from SFC. SFC indicated 
intention to provide additional information to the ACCC. 
ACCC published a Statement of Issues outlining preliminary 
competition concerns. 
Former proposed date for announcement of ACCC’s findings, 
amended to allow for provision of additional information from SFC 
and receipt of responses to Statement of Issues. 
Closing date for submissions relating to Statement of Issues. 
ACCC received additional information from SFC. ACCC timeline 
recommenced. 
ACCC timeline suspended pending receipt of additional information 
from the merger parties. Former proposed date for announcement 
of ACCC’s findings of 13 February 2008, amended to 27 February 
2008 to allow for receipt of additional information. 
ACCC announced it would oppose the proposed acquisition. 
 
Market inquiries 
30. 
The ACCC conducted extensive market inquiries with a range of interested 
parties, including actual and potential competitors, raw MDF customers, raw 
MDF input suppliers, relevant industry bodies and other regulatory agencies. 
Submissions were sought in relation to the substantive competition issues. 
Statement of Issues 
31. 
After an initial round of market inquiries, the ACCC published its Statement of 
Issues on 16 January 2008 identifying a number of competition issues including: 
▪ 
the potential for the proposed acquisition to substantially lessen competition 
in the manufacture and supply of raw MDF in Australia; and 
▪ 
the potential for the merged entity to have the ability and incentive to 
foreclose downstream competition in value added MDF products including 
MDF mouldings. 
32. 
The ACCC sought further submissions from interested parties regarding the 
issues outlined in the Statement of Issues.  
-5- 


SFC - proposed acquisition of certain assets of CHH’s Woodproducts Australia business 
Manufacture and supply of raw MDF 
Market definition 
33. 
The ACCC considered that a relevant market for the consideration of the 
proposed acquisition was the national market for the manufacture and supply of 
raw MDF. 
34. 
The ACCC’s market inquiries indicated that whilst other wood panel products, 
such as plywood and particleboard, may be considered alternatives to raw MDF 
in certain circumstances, they are generally not close substitutes for raw MDF.  
35. 
On the demand-side, market inquiries indicated that other wood panel products 
do not have the same functionality including, from the perspective of secondary 
MDF manufacturers.  
36. 
Raw MDF is often used in applications which require it to be shaped, or routed. 
Particleboard is constituted of large wood chips which are not suitable for 
shaping or routing. Furthermore, particleboard does not have the same profiling 
abilities as raw MDF. Consequently, particleboard was not generally considered a 
close substitute for raw MDF by interested parties, as it would not be suitable for 
a substantial proportion of applications. 
37. 
Interested parties suggested that interior plywood does possess similar 
characteristics to raw MDF, making it capable of use in many of the same 
applications as raw MDF. However, the significant price difference between the 
two products means that interior plywood was unlikely to pose a significant 
constraint on the manufacturers/suppliers of raw MDF. 
38. 
On the supply-side, market inquiries indicated that both manufacturers of 
particleboard and plywood would not be able to adapt their existing production 
facilities to produce raw MDF without significant capital investment. In 
particular plywood utilises a completely different manufacturing process such 
that new machinery would be required. 
Market concentration 
39. 
Market inquiries indicated that the merged entity would be likely to have a very 
strong position in the manufacture and supply of raw MDF, with a substantial 
share of raw MDF manufactured and supplied in Australia. The proposed 
acquisition would result in the number of raw MDF manufacturers/suppliers 
reducing from three to two, with Laminex being the only alternative, with a 
significantly smaller share of the market than the merged entity.  
40. 
The proposed acquisition would result in the HHI increasing by approximately 
2350 to 6050 in the manufacture and supply of raw MDF domestically. 
Accordingly, the ACCC considered that the proposed acquisition would result in 
a significant increase in concentration in an already highly concentrated market. 
-6- 


SFC - proposed acquisition of certain assets of CHH’s Woodproducts Australia business 
Alternative suppliers  
41. 
The proposed acquisition would result in Laminex being the merged entity’s only 
rival manufacturer of raw MDF in Australia.  
42. 
Market inquiries indicated that Laminex manufactures and supplies significant 
volumes of raw MDF in Australia. However, market inquiries indicated that there 
are raw MDF customer segments in which Laminex does not have a significant 
presence such as larger secondary MDF manufacturers that compete with 
Laminex in the downstream supply of value added MDF products.  
43. 
Market inquiries indicated that Laminex would be likely to have weakened 
incentives to impose a competitive constraint on the merged entity due to:  
▪ 
the lessening of competition arising from the removal of CHH, creating an 
environment in which tacit collusion with respect to price increases would be 
more likely; and  
▪ 
the potential advantage to Laminex’s competitive position in the supply of 
value added MDF products as a result of an increase in the price of raw MDF 
supplied to rival secondary MDF manufacturers.  
44. 
The ACCC considered that Laminex would be likely to impose some constraint 
on the merged entity, particularly with respect to the supply of raw MDF to 
distributors and small secondary MDF manufacturers. However, in the absence of 
other competitive constraints, the incentives faced by Laminex meant that it was 
not considered an effective competitive constraint for the purpose of assessing the 
proposed acquisition.  
Barriers to Entry 
45. 
The ACCC’s market inquiries suggested that the capital costs associated with 
establishing a greenfield raw MDF manufacturing plant are substantial (in the 
order of over $100 million for a facility meeting minimum efficient scale). 
Market inquiries indicated that sunk costs are likely to constitute a substantial 
proportion of capital costs. In addition, existing MDF manufacturing capacity in 
Australia is significantly greater than domestic demand for raw MDF. Adding 
further capacity would likely depress domestic raw MDF prices, further reducing 
the likelihood of new entry.  
46. 
In terms of raw inputs, market inquiries indicated that Australian wood resources 
(and in particular, pine resources) are not easily accessible because most 
resources are currently contracted for extended periods with existing raw MDF 
manufacturers/suppliers and manufacturers of other products. These wood 
resources are also used in the manufacture of paper and packaging such that raw 
MDF manufacturers/suppliers must compete with these firms which may have the 
ability to pay more for wood resources because of their higher margins.  
-7- 


SFC - proposed acquisition of certain assets of CHH’s Woodproducts Australia business 
47. 
In addition, market inquiries indicated wood resource owners are likely to be 
reluctant to contract with new, less established manufacturing entrants because 
the nature of the long-term contracts require an ongoing relationship with the 
wood resource owner. In entering into a supply relationship, wood resource 
owners are likely to consider a prospective customer’s financial viability, level of 
experience, long term commitment to the supply relationship and commitment to 
environmental sustainability such that existing players are likely to be given 
preference over new entrants.  
48. 
Accordingly, the ACCC considered that barriers to entry are high and that new 
entry was unlikely to occur in the foreseeable future. 
Import competition 
49. 
The ACCC considered whether actual or potential imports were likely to act as a 
constraint on the merged entity.  
Current MDF imports 
50. 
Market inquiries indicated that the current level of MDF imports into Australia 
equates to approximately 5%3 of raw MDF supplied in Australia. These MDF 
imports are primarily from Malaysia, and to a lesser extent, New Zealand.4  
51. 
The ACCC notes that the available data does not distinguish between raw MDF 
imports and value added MDF imports. Market inquiries indicated that MDF 
imports are likely to be predominantly value added MDF products.  
52. 
Accordingly, the ACCC considered that actual imports of raw MDF are currently 
limited and that, at this level, imports would be unlikely to impose an effective 
competitive constraint on the merged entity.  
Potential raw MDF imports  
53. 
In terms of the availability of potential raw MDF imports, there is currently 
significant global trade in raw MDF, with 13.5 million m³ traded in 2006, 
accounting for 30% of global capacity.5 Independent sources indicate that global 
MDF production capacity has increased substantially over recent years and that 
international trade is relatively fluid with products traded between the Americas, 
Asia-Pacific and Europe.  
54. 
However, market inquiries indicated that the majority of raw MDF being 
produced and traded internationally, particularly in South-East Asia and China, 
was not of comparable quality to Australian product in terms of wood inputs and 
formaldehyde emission standards, suggesting that they would not act as an 
effective competitive constraint on the merged entity. Although such quality 
issues were acknowledged by all interested parties, market inquiries confirmed 
                                                 
3 ABARE, 2007 statistics.  
4 Imports from Malaysia constituted 12,000m³ and NZ constituted 2,000m³ according to ABARE 2007 
data. 
5 Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations, 2008 
-8- 


SFC - proposed acquisition of certain assets of CHH’s Woodproducts Australia business 
that some quantities of raw MDF of suitable quality may be available both from 
South East Asia, South America6 and New Zealand for import into Australia.  
55. 
While raw MDF of suitable quality is manufactured in New Zealand, the 
structure of the New Zealand raw MDF industry means significant quantities of 
this raw MDF capacity is unlikely to be available for independent imports to 
Australia. 7 In particular, two of the three raw MDF manufacturers/suppliers in 
New Zealand are related entities of SFC and CHH. The only other New Zealand 
raw MDF manufacturer, Dongwha Patinna NZ Limited (Dongwha), is a related 
entity to Laminex8. Based on market inquiries, the ACCC considered that 
Dongwha would be unlikely to act as an effective competitive constraint on raw 
MDF manufacturers/suppliers in Australia. 
56. 
The ACCC noted that raw MDF is an internationally traded commodity and there 
may be sources of raw MDF of a suitable quality in South East Asia and South 
America which are available for imports to Australia. However, as discussed 
below, the price of such imported raw MDF is unlikely to be within a range that 
would impose an effective competitive constraint on the merged entity.  
57. 
Some interested parties expressed concerns in relation to the reliability and 
operational issues associated with importing raw MDF. However, market 
inquiries indicated that some wood panel importers and many of the larger raw 
MDF distributors are currently importing wood-based products including 
particleboard, plywood and value added MDF products and could be expected to 
have the expertise, information and relationships necessary to explore importing 
raw MDF to Australia.  
58. 
In terms of the price of potential raw MDF imports, market inquiries indicated a 
significant variability in the landed cost of raw MDF as a result of differences in 
the price of raw MDF from particular suppliers, differences in shipping costs and 
exchange rate fluctuations.  
59. 
However, market inquiries indicated that the landed cost of suitable quality 
imported raw MDF is unlikely to be within a range that would impose an 
effective competitive constraint on the merged entity. In particular, market 
inquiries indicated that price increases in excess of 5-10% by the merged entity 
would be necessary before there was any possibility of significant and suitable 
quality raw MDF being imported to Australia from South-East Asia or South 
America. 
60. 
Accordingly, the ACCC considered that potential raw MDF imports would be 
unlikely to impose an effective competitive constraint by acting as a viable 
                                                 
6 For instance, Chilean raw MDF manufacturers utilise radiata pine in the manufacturing of low 
formaldehyde raw MDF of comparable standards to Australian raw MDF.  
7 The position in relation to the availability of raw MDF manufactured in New Zealand may change in 
the event SFC’s acquisition of Woodproducts New Zealand and Carters does not proceed. However, 
regardless of whether or not this acquisition proceeds, it would be unlikely to impact upon the ACCC’s 
conclusions in relation to potential import competition or the proposed acquisition.  
8 Fletcher Building Ltd (Laminex’s parent company) has a 20% interest in Dongwha with an option to 
acquire a further 30%.  
-9- 


SFC - proposed acquisition of certain assets of CHH’s Woodproducts Australia business 
alternative for raw MDF customers in response to an increase in domestic prices 
by the merged entity.   
Downstream competition  
61. 
The ACCC also considered indirect constraints on the merged entity that may 
arise from downstream competition with respect to the wholesale and/or retail 
supply of raw MDF and value added MDF products (including imports). In 
particular, the merged entity could be constrained by a potential reduction in raw 
MDF sales in the event that it sought to increase prices to raw MDF distributors 
and secondary MDF manufacturers above competitive levels. The ACCC 
considered that downstream competition would be unlikely to impose an effective 
competitive constraint on the merged entity. 
Conclusion – manufacture and supply of raw MDF 
62. 
The ACCC concluded that the proposed acquisition was likely to result in a 
substantial lessening of competition in the manufacture and supply of raw MDF 
in Australia.  
Foreclosure of competition in downstream value added MDF products 
63. 
The proposed acquisition would result in SFC acquiring CHH’s secondary MDF 
manufacturing assets with respect to MDF mouldings and LPM. Raw MDF is a 
necessary input for the value added MDF products manufactured by CHH and its 
competitors.  
64. 
Market inquiries indicated that SFC would be likely to have the ability and 
incentive to leverage the market power it gained in relation to the manufacture 
and supply of raw MDF. For example the merged entity could either:  
▪ 
restrict supply of raw MDF to its downstream rivals in the manufacture and 
supply of value added MDF products; or 
▪ 
raise the costs of downstream rivals in the manufacture and supply of value 
added MDF products by increasing the price of raw MDF.  
65. 
Market inquiries indicated that these concerns are likely to arise in relation to 
competition for the supply of value added products in which CHH currently has 
operations (MDF mouldings and LPM) as well as a broader range of value added 
MDF products in the event that the merged entity elected to further vertically 
integrate. The ACCC did not consider it necessary to precisely define each of the 
value added markets. 
66. 
The ACCC considered that the merged entity’s ability to exercise market power 
in the manufacture and supply of raw MDF as a result of the proposed acquisition 
would be likely to provide it with the ability and incentive to foreclose 
downstream competition in relation to the supply of value added MDF products.  
-10- 


SFC - proposed acquisition of certain assets of CHH’s Woodproducts Australia business 
Conclusion 
67. 
The ACCC formed the view that the proposed acquisition would be likely to 
result in a substantial lessening of competition in the national market for the 
manufacture and supply of raw MDF and downstream value added MDF 
products in contravention of section 50 of the Act.  
-11- 
