Public Competition Assessment
22 January 2007
Healthe Care Australia Pty Ltd - proposed acquisition of Brisbane
Waters private hospital from Healthscope Limited
Introduction
1.
On 13 December 2006, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission
(ACCC) announced its decision to oppose the proposed acquisition of Brisbane
Waters Private Hospital from Healthscope Limited by Healthe Care Australia Pty
Ltd (proposed acquisition). The ACCC was of the view that the proposed
acquisition would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of substantially
lessening competition in the Gosford market for the supply of private hospital
services to patients, in contravention of section 50 of the Trade Practices Act
1974 (the Act).
2.
The ACCC made its decision on the basis of the information provided by the
merger parties and information arising from its market inquiries. This Public
Competition Assessment outlines, subject to confidentiality considerations, the
basis on which the ACCC formed its decision on the proposed transaction.
Public Competition Assessment
3.
To provide an enhanced level of transparency and procedural fairness in its
decision making process, the ACCC issues a Public Competition Assessment for
all transaction proposals where:
a merger is rejected;
a merger is subject to enforceable undertakings;
the merger parties seek such disclosure; or
a merger is approved but raises important issues that the ACCC considers
should be made public.
4.
This Public Competition Assessment has been issued because the ACCC formed
the view that Healthe Care Australia Pty Ltd’s proposed acquisition would be
likely to contravene the Act.
5.
By issuing Public Competition Assessments, the ACCC aims to provide the
market with a better understanding of the ACCC's analysis of various markets


Healthe Care Australia - proposed acquisition of Brisbane Waters Private Hospital
-2-
and the associated merger and competition issues. It also alerts the market to the
circumstances where the ACCC’s assessment of the competition conditions in
particular markets is changing, or likely to change, because of developments.
6.
Each Public Competition Assessment is specific to the particular transaction
under review by the ACCC. While some transaction proposals may involve the
same or related markets, it should not be assumed that the analysis and decision
outlined in one Public Competition Assessment will be conclusive of the ACCC’s
view in respect of other transaction proposals, as each matter will be considered
on its own merits.
7.
Many of the ACCC’s decisions will involve consideration of both
non-confidential and confidential information provided by the merger parties and
market participants. In order to maintain the confidentiality of particular
information, Public Competition Assessments do not contain any confidential
information or its sources. While the ACCC aims to provide an appropriately
detailed explanation of the basis for the ACCC decision, where this is not
possible, maintaining confidentiality will be the ACCC's paramount concern, and
accordingly a Public Competition Assessment may not definitively explain all
issues and the ACCC’s analysis of such issues.
The parties
The acquirer: Healthe Care Australia Pty Ltd
8.
Healthe Care Australia Pty Ltd (Healthe) is a recent entrant into private hospital
markets in Australia. Healthe became an operator of private hospitals when it
entered a sales agreement with Ramsay Health Care Ltd (Ramsay) in late 2005 to
acquire five private hospitals. Healthe operates those five hospitals in the
following locations:
The Valley Private Hospital, south eastern Melbourne, Victoria;
South Eastern Private Hospital, south eastern Melbourne, Victoria;
Lingard Private Hospital, Newcastle, New South Wales;
North Gosford Private, Gosford, New South Wales; and
Belmont Private Hospital, Brisbane, Queensland.
The target –Brisbane Waters Private Hospital owned by Healthscope Limited
9.
Healthscope Limited (Healthscope) owns or manages 48 medical/ surgical,
rehabilitation and psychiatric hospitals and is the second largest private hospital
provider in Australia. In addition, Healthscope operates a pathology business with
facilities in Australia, New Zealand, Singapore and Malaysia. Healthscope was
established in 1985 and listed on the ASX in 1994.


Healthe Care Australia - proposed acquisition of Brisbane Waters Private Hospital
-3-
10.
Brisbane Waters Private Hospital (Brisbane Waters) is a 95 bed private hospital
owned by Healthscope and is located in Woy Woy, Gosford. Brisbane Waters
provides specialist cardiology services and general medical and surgical services
to patients.
Market background
11.
Brisbane Waters’ competitors in the Gosford market are North Gosford Private
(owed by Healthe) and Berkeley Vale (owned by Ramsay). Healthe’s proposed
acquisition of Brisbane Waters would result in Healthe owning the two largest
private hospitals in Gosford.
The proposed transaction
12.
On 28 September 2006, Healthscope notified the Australian Stock Exchange
(ASX) that it had entered into a sales agreement with Healthe to sell Healthe five
of its private hospitals. The five hospitals were:

Brisbane Waters (New South Wales);

Dubbo Private Hospital (Dubbo Hospital) (New South Wales);

La Trobe Private Hospital (La Trobe) (Victoria);

North West Private Hospital (North West) (Tasmania); and

The Palm Beach Clinic (Palm Beach) (Queensland).
13.
The sale of the hospitals was conditional on relevant government regulatory
approvals including ACCC approval.
Timing
14.
The following table outlines the timeline of key events in this matter.
Date
Event
28-Sep-2006
ACCC commenced review under the Merger Review Process Guidelines.
Market inquiries commenced.
19-Oct-2006
Closing date for submissions from interested parties.
08-Nov-2006
Proposed date for announcement of ACCC's findings.
08-Nov-2006
ACCC published a Statement of Issues outlining preliminary competition
concerns in relation to Healthe Care Australia Pty Ltd's proposed
acquisition of Brisbane Waters Private from Healthscope Limited.
08-Nov-2006
The ACCC announced its decision not to oppose Healthe Care Australia
Pty Ltd's proposed acquisitions of the Palm Beach Clinic, Dubbo
Private Hospital, La Trobe Private Hospital and North West Private
Hospital from Healthscope Limited.


Healthe Care Australia - proposed acquisition of Brisbane Waters Private Hospital
-4-
22-Nov-2006
Closing date for submissions from interested parties on the Statement
of Issues.
06-Dec-2006
Proposed date for announcement of ACCC's outstanding findings
in relation to Healthe Care Australia Pty Ltd's proposed acquisition
of Brisbane Waters Private Hospital from Healthscope Limited
extended for further consideration of information provided by
the merger parties.
13-Dec-2006
ACCC announced its decision to oppose Healthe Care Australia Pty
Ltd's proposed acquisition of Brisbane Waters Private Hospital
from Healthscope Limited.
Areas of overlap
15.
North Gosford Private (North Gosford), currently owned by Healthe, and
Brisbane Waters are both located in Gosford, New South Wales.
16.
Both North Gosford and Brisbane Waters provide high-acuity services. For the
purposes of this public competition assessment, high-acuity services are taken to
be hospital services which are generally more complex clinical procedures and
typically require a substantial investment on the part of the hospital.
17.
North Gosford and Brisbane Waters offer many of the same hospital services and
a range of complementary hospital services. However, the two hospitals’ case
mixes indicate that the hospitals’ revenue streams vary, with different specialities
accounting for different proportions of total revenue at each of the two hospitals.
For example, North Gosford specialises in obstetrics whereas Brisbane Waters
specialises in cardiology.
Market inquiries
18.
The ACCC conducted market inquiries with a range of industry participants,
including doctors ranging from general practitioners through to surgeons and
other specialists, health funds, competitors, potential competitors, other
regulatory agencies and other interested parties. Submissions were sought in
relation to the competition issues raised in the Statement of Issues and any other
issues that market participants considered relevant to the ACCC’s assessment of
the proposed acquisition.
Statement of Issues
19.
The ACCC published a Statement of Issues (SOI) on 8 November 2006
identifying a number of competition issues. In the SOI, the ACCC invited further
information and comment on whether the proposed acquisition would be likely to
lead to a substantial lessening of competition in the Gosford market for the
supply to health funds (and entities undertaking similar functions – for example,
the Repatriation Commission) of the right for their members to be supplied with
general overnight hospital services at specified rates. In the SOI, the ACCC also
noted that Healthe’s proposed acquisition of the other four hospitals which were
the subject of the sales agreement between Healthscope and Healthe, namely


Healthe Care Australia - proposed acquisition of Brisbane Waters Private Hospital
-5-
Dubbo Hospital, North West, Palm Beach and La Trobe, was unlikely to raise
competition concerns under section 50 of the Act.
20.
The SOI explored whether the proposed acquisition would be likely to enable
Healthe to exercise market power, particularly in regards to Healthe’s Gosford
hospitals by either:
imposing a price increase on health funds and the Repatriation Commission; or
reducing the quality of services Healthe offers patients in the Gosford area.
21.
In the SOI, the ACCC noted that a competition concern could arise post-
acquisition if contractual disputes arose during Hospital Purchaser Provider
Agreement (HPPA) negotiations between Healthe and health funds and were
resolved in favour of Healthe as a result of the reduction in competition.
Consequently, the ACCC sought information on whether health funds and the
Repatriation Commission would be able to resist, for example, a demand for
higher payments from Healthe in Gosford.
22.
In particular, the ACCC sought detailed information on whether Healthe’s ability
to exercise market power in the Gosford market post-acquisition would be limited
by its relatively lower level of bargaining power in other regional hospital
markets in which its owns private hospitals.
23.
The SOI identified self-funded patients as patients who paid for their private
hospital treatment themselves and were not currently members of health funds
and did not have their treatment paid for in some other way, for example by the
Repatriation Commission. The ACCC sought comment on the extent to which
self-funded patients would be able to switch to alternative private hospital
services in nearby areas and/ or day surgeries should the price for private hospital
services in Healthe’s Gosford hospitals increase post-acquisition.
24.
The ACCC sought submissions from market participants on the issues that were
raised in the SOI and any other issues that participants considered relevant to the
ACCC’s assessment of the matter.


Healthe Care Australia - proposed acquisition of Brisbane Waters Private Hospital
-6-
Market One – Gosford market for the supply of private hospital services to health
funds and the Repatriation Commission
Market definition
Product market
25.
In defining relevant markets, the ACCC adopts a purposive approach. The ACCC
formed the view that one relevant market was the Gosford market for the supply
of private hospital services to health funds and the Repatriation Commission.
This was consistent with the ACCC’s previous considerations of Little Company
of Mary Health Care Ltd’s acquisition of The John James Memorial Hospital Ltd
(August 2006) and Ramsay Health Care Ltd’s acquisition of Affinity Health Ltd
(August 2005).
Geographic market
26.
Market inquiries did not support the inclusion of northern Sydney private
hospitals in the relevant geographic dimension of the Gosford market for the
supply of private hospital services to health funds and the Repatriation
Commission. Submissions indicated that privately insured residents within a
regional area expected access to private hospitals within that region for the
majority of private hospital services. Market participants submitted that patient
leakage to metropolitan private hospitals, in this instance to northern Sydney
from Gosford, was mostly attributable to those patients who required services
which were not provided in regional private hospitals.
27.
For the purposes of competition analysis, the ACCC defined the relevant
geographic dimensions of the Gosford market for the supply of private hospital
services to health funds and the Repatriation Commission to include North
Gosford, Brisbane Waters and Berkeley Vale Private Hospital (Berkeley Vale).
This was in accordance with the regional approach to geographic dimensions for
the Gosford region adopted by the ACCC in relation to Ramsay Health Care
Ltd’s acquisition of Affinity Health Ltd.
Conclusion
28.
The ACCC was therefore of the view that one relevant market was the Gosford
market for the supply of private hospital services to health funds and the
Repatriation Commission.
Competition analysis
Bargaining power
29.
Market inquiries indicated that post-acquisition, Healthe would have had a
portfolio of hospitals that would include a monopolistic or dominant position in
certain New South Wales regional markets that might have impacted on some
health funds’ bargaining power when negotiating with Healthe post-acquisition.


Healthe Care Australia - proposed acquisition of Brisbane Waters Private Hospital
-7-
30.
Whilst Healthe’s niche portfolio might have given Healthe an opportunity to
leverage its dominance in certain markets, market inquiries confirmed that there
would be no significant detrimental impact on the prices health funds and the
Repatriation Commission pay to Healthe as purchasers of private hospital
services from private hospital providers in Gosford. Submissions provided
indicated that health funds and the Repatriation Commission would continue to
possess sufficient bargaining power when negotiating with Healthe post-
acquisition to offset any advantages that might accrue to Healthe due to the
acquisition.
31.
The ACCC considered that the proposed acquisition would be unlikely to provide
Healthe with the ability to exert its bargaining power post-acquisition when
negotiating payments for private hospital services from health funds and the
Repatriation Commission in a way that may cause concerns under section 50 of
the Act.
Market Two – Gosford market for the supply of private hospital services to
patients
Market definition
32.
Market inquiries supported the delineation of a market for the supply of private
hospital services to patients. The adoption of this market definition allowed for
qualitative analysis of the competitive effects of the proposed acquisition by the
ACCC.
33.
The ACCC formed the view that the other relevant market in this matter was the
Gosford market for the supply of private hospital services to patients.
Product market
34.
Market inquiries indicated that doctors acted as agents for patients in obtaining a
range of quality services for patients. Private hospitals, through the provision of
requisite facilities and support staff for specialised treatments, compete for
specialists which, in turn guarantees referrals of patients to the private hospitals.
This competition between private hospitals is manifested, amongst other things,
through the provision of state-of-the-art equipment, maintenance of the facility
and provision of trained, quality support staff such as nursing staff.
35.
Submissions supported the view that whilst there would be a direct effect on the
acquisition of services from private hospitals in Gosford post-acquisition, the
doctors were not, in the vast majority of cases, the ultimate consumers. Rather, it
was the patients who were the end-consumers of the services provided, with the
doctor providing a proxy for the service provision to the patient. The competition
effects which doctors may have experienced post-acquisition could be accounted
for through analysing the competition effects in the Gosford market for the
provision of private hospital services to patients.


Healthe Care Australia - proposed acquisition of Brisbane Waters Private Hospital
-8-
Geographic market
36.
Market inquiries did not support the inclusion of northern Sydney private
hospitals in the relevant geographic dimension of the Gosford market for the
supply of private hospital services to patients. Submissions indicated that patient
leakage to Sydney from Gosford was, in most cases, attributable to the services
not being offered by any private hospital in Gosford due to the high cost of
specialisation and provision of such services which rendered offering them in
regional areas unfeasible due to insufficient patient numbers. Submissions
supported the view that services which were required more often within a
population, such as orthopaedics, were offered in regional private hospitals and
patients who resided within those regions expected such services to be provided
by their local, regional private hospitals.
37.
Furthermore, submissions indicated that some patient leakage to northern Sydney
from Gosford could be attributed to familial reasons.
38.
For the purposes of competition analysis, the ACCC defined the relevant
geographic dimensions of the Gosford market for the supply of private hospital
services to patients to include North Gosford, Brisbane Waters and Berkeley
Vale. This was in accordance with the regional approach to geographic
dimensions for the Gosford region adopted by the ACCC in relation to Ramsay
Health Care Ltd’s acquisition of Affinity Health Ltd.
Conclusion
39.
The ACCC was therefore of the view that one relevant market was the Gosford
market for the supply of private hospital services to patients.
Competition analysis
40.
Market inquiries indicated that the influence of health funds, the Repatriation
Commission, industry codes and relevant government regulations ensure that
services meet at least a certain standard. Private hospitals have to operate at or
above this standard in order to be accredited as a private hospital and receive
payments from health funds and the Repatriation Commission.
41.
Market inquiries revealed that the incentive to offer services above this standard
is influenced by the competition between private hospital providers for patients,
as provided by doctors.


Healthe Care Australia - proposed acquisition of Brisbane Waters Private Hospital
-9-
Berkeley Vale – constraint on North Gosford and Brisbane Waters
42.
Submissions suggested that Berkley Vale is unlikely to be sufficient to constrain
North Gosford and Brisbane Waters if they were owned by Healthe.
Extent to which North Gosford and Brisbane Waters compete and the role of doctors in
using this competition to facilitate higher service levels in the hospitals
43.
Submissions received indicated that Brisbane Waters and North Gosford compete
in the provision of new and existing services in order to attract doctors. Doctors
in this capacity act as the service quality proxy for the patient, with the
competitive dynamic between Brisbane Waters and North Gosford allowing
doctors to facilitate optimal service provision to patients at the two hospitals. The
ACCC considered that post-acquisition, the competitive tensions currently at play
between the two hospitals would be likely to cease, leading to a reduction in the
quality of services. Post-acquisition, there would be a reduced incentive on the
part of Healthe to provide, amongst other things, innovative services or an
optimal number of support staff at the hospitals—this is in contrast to the
incentives provided by the current state of competition between Brisbane Waters
and North Gosford.
44.
Market inquiries also revealed that the competitive dynamic that currently exists
between Brisbane Waters and North Gosford facilitates the provision of a broader
range of private hospital services in Gosford. This is because there is an incentive
for the two hospitals to differentiate themselves through specialisation, which in
turn attracts doctors and increases the services available to patients. Submissions
confirmed that the two hospitals compete in both the provision of existing
services, for example, by upgrading equipment, and compete in the provision of
new services, for example, by investing in requisite equipment and hiring
additional support staff. This competition facilitates the differing case mixes of
Brisbane Waters and North Gosford with each hospital providing services in
variance to the other hospital in order to maximise patient flow.
Rationalisation post-acquisition and its effect on the quantity and range of services
provided in Gosford
45.
The ACCC noted that rationalisation may have occurred at Brisbane Waters
and/ or North Gosford regardless of whether the proposed acquisition took place.
However, the ACCC’s concerns were that whilst independent rationalisation may
occur in the absence of the acquisition, Brisbane Waters, for example, would
necessarily be concerned during that process with maintaining its free-standing
existence. Therefore its choices about rationalisation would more likely take into
account the competitive tensions that currently exist between itself and North
Gosford. This could be contrasted with the likely competitive environment
post-acquisition, where Healthe would only need to take into consideration its
own financial incentives when making choices about rationalisation in Brisbane
Waters and North Gosford.


Healthe Care Australia - proposed acquisition of Brisbane Waters Private Hospital
-10-
46.
Submissions received indicated that rationalisation made possible by the
proposed acquisition would be likely to result in a reduction in the range and
quantity of services currently offered by North Gosford and Brisbane Waters.
Conclusion
47.
On the basis of the above, the ACCC formed the view that the proposed
acquisition of Healthscope Limited’s Brisbane Waters Private Hospital by
Healthe Care Australia Pty Ltd was likely to result in a substantial lessening of
competition in the Gosford market for the provision of private hospital services to
patients in contravention of section 50 of the Act.
48.
As a result of the ACCC’s decision to oppose Healthe’s proposed acquisition of
Brisbane Waters Private Hospital, Healthscope sold the other four hospitals
subject to the sales agreement to Healthe and retained Brisbane Waters in its
private hospitals portfolio. Healthscope notified the ASX of the amended sales
transaction on 13 December 2006.
