 
 
 
9 February 2012 
 
Statement of Issues 
Woolworths Limited - proposed acquisition of a 
takeaway packaged liquor licence located at Rocherlea 
Tasmania 
1. 
Outlined below is the Statement of Issues released by the Australian Competition 
and Consumer Commission (ACCC) in relation to the proposed acquisition by 
Woolworths Limited (Woolworths) of the Black Stallion Hotel Drive-Thru 
Bottleshop and associated off licence (the Licence) located at 218 George Town 
Road, Rocherlea, Tasmania (proposed acquisition).  
2. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well 
as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
3. 
In line with the ACCC’s Merger Review Process Guidelines (available on the 
ACCC’s website at www.accc.gov.au) the ACCC has established a secondary 
timeline for further consideration of the issues. The ACCC anticipates completing 
further market inquiries by 24 February 2012 and anticipates making a final 
decision on 9 March 2012.  
4. 
However, the anticipated timeline can change in line with the Merger Review 
Process Guidelines. To keep abreast of possible changes in relation to timing and 
to find relevant documents, market participants should visit the Mergers Register 
on the ACCC's website at www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
5. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 


Woolworths Limited - proposed acquisition of liquor off licence located in Rocherlea 
Tasmania 
 
2
Background 
6. 
On 3 November 2011 the ACCC commenced an informal review of the proposed 
acquisition. 
The parties 
The Acquirer - Woolworths Limited 
7. 
Woolworths is the owner, or joint owner, of over 1100 retail liquor stores 
throughout Australia, which trade under the names ‘Woolworths Liquor’, 
‘Safeway Liquor’, ‘BWS’ and ‘Dan Murphy’s’. 
The Target – Black Stallion Hotel Drive – Thru Bottleshop, Rocherlea Tasmania 
8. 
The Licence currently trades as ‘Black Stallion Hotel – Drive-Thru Bottleshop 
and is located at 218 George Town Road, Rocherlea, Tasmania. Rocherlea is 
located approximately 8 kilometres north of the Launceston CBD. 
9. 
The Licence is branded as a Big Bargain Bottleshop (BBB). BBB operates as 
both a promotional banner group and bargaining representative for its affiliated 
stores. 
10. 
The transaction relates to the bottle shop only.  The Black Stallion Hotel and its 
general liquor licence will continue to be independently owned. 
Industry background 
11. 
The Tasmanian liquor retailing industry is made up of Woolworths, which has 
liquor outlets under the BWS brand, and independents who generally operate 
under a banner group. Banner groups operating within Launceston include BBB, 
Thirsty Camel, Duncans, 911, Cellarbrations and Liquor Stax. Wesfarmers does 
not presently operate any liquor retail outlets in Tasmania. 
12. 
The ACCC understands that banner groups provide their affiliated stores with a 
number of services which differ from banner group to banner group but are likely 
to include: 
a. 
Use of the banner group brand; 
b. 
Signage for inside and outside the store; 
c. 
A promotion schedule; 
d. 
Banner group branded goods; and 
e. 
The ability to access, and advertising of, specials (reflecting discounts 
collectively negotiated by the banner group at the wholesale level). 


Woolworths Limited - proposed acquisition of liquor off licence located in Rocherlea 
Tasmania 
 
3
13. 
Banner affiliation carries with it a number of obligations. The terms and 
conditions of these obligations differ from banner group to banner group but are 
likely to include an obligation to: 
a. 
stock particular items;  
b. 
price promoted items at the advertised price point; and 
c. 
obtain some or all stock from the banner group. 
14. 
There are five kinds of liquor licence available in Tasmania – general, club, on, 
off and special. Relevantly: 
a. 
A general licence authorises: 
i. 
The sale of liquor for consumption on and off the licensed premises; and 
ii. 
The sale of liquor at any time to a resident of the premises specified in 
the licence. 
b. 
An off licence authorises the sale of liquor for consumption off the licensed 
premises.  The proposed acquisition is of an off licence. 
Areas of overlap and market definition 
15. 
Section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 prohibits mergers or 
acquisitions that substantially lessen or are likely to substantially lessen 
competition in a market in Australia. Therefore, in assessing whether the 
proposed acquisition substantially lessens competition, the ACCC is considering 
the competitive impact of the transaction in the context of the market/s relevant to 
the proposed acquisition. 
Retail market 
16. 
The ACCC is currently considering the effect on competition in the market for 
the retail sale of packaged liquor for off-premises consumption on the north 
eastern side of the Tamar River within approximately five kilometres of the 
Licence. 
17. 
Market inquires to date indicate that the majority of sales at the Licence are to 
consumers that reside within five kilometres of the Licence. 
18. 
Two key drivers that appear to influence where Rocherlea consumers purchase 
liquor are convenience and price. Those consumers that value convenience over 
price for a given transaction tend to use the store nearest their place of residence. 
In contrast, consumers that place price over convenience for a given transaction 
are likely to examine the weekly liquor advertising and may attend the nearest 
outlet of the banner group in the retail market that currently offers that 
consumer’s product of choice for the cheapest price. 


Woolworths Limited - proposed acquisition of liquor off licence located in Rocherlea 
Tasmania 
 
4
19. 
Consumers may utilise any of the stores within the retail market and are more 
likely to do so where the store is: 
a. 
Located on an arterial road which the consumer regularly uses; and/or 
b. 
Located in close proximity to where consumers regularly shop for other 
products, such as groceries. 
20. 
Market inquires to date indicate that consumers are unlikely to travel to the 
southern side of the Tamar River to purchase liquor. 
21. 
There are currently four off-premises liquor stores within the retail market: 
a. 
The Black Stallion Hotel Drive-Thru Bottleshop (the target); 
b. 
Mowbray BWS (Woolworths owned); 
c. 
Retreat BWS (Woolworths owned); and 
d. 
Mowbray Liquor Stax (independently owned). 
22. 
The ACCC understands that there are also three hotels within this market that 
possess general liquor licences which allow sales of takeaway packaged liquor 
for off-site consumption.  The three hotels are, the Black Stallion Hotel (that has 
the target attached), the Retreat Hotel (that has a BWS bottleshop attached) and 
Archers Manor.  Inquiries indicate that the volume of over-the-counter takeaway 
packaged liquor sales for off-site consumption from hotels in the Rocherlea area 
is very small and that consumers view over-the-counter takeaway packaged 
liquor sales for off-site consumption from hotels as a weak substitute for liquor 
stores.  Accordingly, the ACCC currently considers that over-the-counter hotel 
sales are unlikely to represent a meaningful constraint pre or post acquisition. 
23. 
There are 10 liquor stores located between 6-8 kilometres away from the Licence 
in the Launceston CBD on the southern bank of the Tamar River.  


Woolworths Limited - proposed acquisition of liquor off licence located in Rocherlea 
Tasmania 
 
5
 
Statement of Issues 
Issues that may raise concerns  
Reduction in variety and number of products on promotion 
24. 
Market inquires indicate that many consumers in the retail market are likely to: 
a. 
have a ‘product of choice’, that is, a strong brand preference for one or a 
small number of liquor products; 
b. 
be price sensitive in relation to liquor purchases; 
c. 
examine the weekly advertising of BWS and other banner groups and 
purchase their product of choice from the nearest outlet within the retail 
market that currently offers that product for the cheapest price.  This is 
usually the outlet that has the product on discount or on promotion at that 
given time. 
25. 
Market inquiries indicate that the majority of sales by off-premises liquor stores 
in the retail market are, at any given time, products that are on discount or on 
promotion. 
26. 
The ACCC considers that BWS and other banner group’s discounts and 
promotions appear to be an important element of differentiation and competition 
The ACCC invites market participants to comment on the appropriate market/s 
within which the ACCC should consider the proposed acquisition. 
In particular, the ACCC is considering the issues which are outlined below and 
invites interested parties to comment on: 
 
Whether the retail market should include over-the-counter sales from hotels of 
takeaway packaged liquor for off site consumption; 
 
Whether the majority of sales at the Licence are to consumers that reside 
within five kilometres of the Licence; 
 
How far consumers are willing to travel to access takeaway packaged liquor 
stores;  
 
What factors influence consumers’ choice of takeaway packaged liquor store; 
 
What factors influence consumers’ willingness to travel to access takeaway 
packaged liquor stores that are greater than five kilometres from the Licence; 
and 
 
How does the state-based or regional pricing of Woolworths and other banner 
group affect the geographic scope of the retail liquor market/s. 


Woolworths Limited - proposed acquisition of liquor off licence located in Rocherlea 
Tasmania 
 
6
within the retail market and that consumers can and do switch outlets in reaction 
to it. 
27. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition will result in: 
a. 
Woolworths controlling three of the four off-premises liquor stores in the 
retail market; 
b. 
the removal of one of the three banner groups that currently operate in the 
retail market; and 
c. 
an associated reduction in the scope for consumers, at any given time, to 
purchase their preferred liquor products at a discount or on promotion (as 
discussed at paragraphs 24-26). 
 
Elimination of a vigorous and effective competitor 
28. 
The ACCC is considering whether the Licence is a vigorous and effective 
competitor in the retail market. This includes not only competition on price but 
also on non-price factors such as service levels and opening hours. 
The ACCC invites market participants to comment on the likely effect on prices 
within the retail market post acquisition 
In particular, the ACCC is considering the issues which are outlined below and 
invites interested parties to comment on: 
 
The proportion of sales at liquor stores in the retail market that relate to 
promoted items; 
 
The effect of Woolworths owning three of the four takeaway packaged liquor 
stores in the retail market; 
 
The effect of the removal of one of the three banner groups that currently 
operate in the retail market on customer choice and the ability for consumers to 
access products at a discount or on promotion; and 
 
The effect that state-based or regional pricing of Woolworths and other banner 
groups will have on prices in the retail market. 


Woolworths Limited - proposed acquisition of liquor off licence located in Rocherlea 
Tasmania 
 
7
 
 
Barriers to entry and expansion 
 
Barriers to entry and expansion 
29. 
Market inquiries indicate that there is little prospect of the Black Stallion Hotel or 
the Retreat Hotel expanding/redeveloping their premises to open a second 
bottleshop to compete with the pre-existing attached bottleshop as:  
a. 
each has a pre-existing bottleshop; 
b. 
there is a lack of demand in the market given the proximity of existing 
bottleshops; 
c. 
there is limited space available for a second bottleshop to be established; 
and 
d. 
the costs involved in building the bottleshop and modifying the existing 
infrastructure and signage, which is configured to optimise the prominence 
and accessibility of the pre-existing bottleshop, may be prohibitive relative 
to the return. 
30. 
In addition, inquiries indicate that the potential for new entry in other areas may 
be restricted due to the limited access to appropriately zoned sites that are: 
a. 
Located on an arterial road which the consumer regularly uses; and/or 
b. 
Located in close proximity to where consumers regularly shop for other 
products, such as groceries. 
31. 
Rezoning of land may free up sites.  However, depending on the level of 
objection, this can take up to 24 months. New entrants would also need to obtain 
an off-licence which can, depending on the level of objection, take up to 12 
months.  
The ACCC invites market participants to comment whether the proposed 
transaction would result in the removal of a vigorous and effective competitor 
from the retail market  
In particular, the ACCC is considering the issues which are outlined below and 
invites interested parties to comment on: 
 
Whether the Licence engages in competitive pricing behaviour for example 
discounting and promotions; 
 
Whether the Licence provides high levels of customer service;  
 
Whether the Licence competes effectively on other non-price factors; and 
 
Whether other liquor stores in the Rocherlea area respond to or have responded 
in the past to the activities of the Licence by improving or modifying their 
retail offer. 


Woolworths Limited - proposed acquisition of liquor off licence located in Rocherlea 
Tasmania 
 
8
32. 
The ACCC understands that new entrants would also need to obtain an off-
licence.  The ACCC understands that there are a number of criteria that must be 
satisfied before the Tasmanian Licensing Commissioner and Board will grant an 
liquor off licence including satisfying the Tasmanian Licensing Board that the 
granting of a licence is in the best interests of the community.  Market inquiries 
indicate that the application process can, depending on the level of objection, take 
up to 12 months.   
33. 
The ACCC understands that an application for an off licence in Ravenswood was 
rejected in 2010.  Market participants are concerned that this rejection illustrates 
that the granting of additional licences in the Rocherlea area is unlikely. 
34. 
The ACCC considers that the long rezoning application process and risk of 
rejection and licence application process represent barriers to entry to the retail 
market.   
35. 
The ACCC is also concerned that the presence of three Woolworths’ owned 
liquor stores within five kilometres may deter further entrants to the retail market. 
 
 
ACCC's future steps 
36. 
The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers market responses 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
The ACCC invites market participants to comment on the height of barriers to 
entry to the retail market and whether these barriers are likely to change if the 
proposed acquisition proceeds 
In particular, the ACCC is considering the issues which are outlined below and 
invites interested parties to comment on: 
 
Whether a new entrant could or would enter the retail market by opening a 
liquor store within or attached to a hotel in circumstances where there is a pre-
existing liquor store already attached to the hotel;  
 
The degree of difficulty faced by a new entrant in locating an appropriate and 
available site for a liquor store in the retail market; 
 
The degree of difficulty faced by a new entrant in obtaining a liquor licence for 
a liquor store in the retail market; 
 
The degree of difficulty faced by a new entrant in having land rezoned for a 
liquor store in the retail market; and 
 
The effect of three Woolworths’ owned sites in the retail market. 


Woolworths Limited - proposed acquisition of liquor off licence located in Rocherlea 
Tasmania 
 
9
37. 
The ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on each of the issues 
identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that may be relevant 
to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. 
38. 
Submissions are to be received by the ACCC no later than 23 February 2012. The 
ACCC will consider the submissions received from the market and the merger 
parties in light of the issues identified above and will, in conjunction with 
information and submissions already provided by the parties, come to a final 
view in light of the issues raised above. 
39. 
The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 8 March 2012. 
However the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Merger Review 
Process Guidelines. A public Competition Assessment for the purpose of 
explaining the ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's public 
announcement. 
