 
 
Land of the Ngunnawal people
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
Tel 02 6243 1111 
Fax 02 6243 1199
www.accc.gov.au
 
 
Our ref: IM-72525 
 
 
 
 
 
 
27 March 2024 
Dear Interested Party 
Request for submissions: Datasite, LLC’s proposed acquisition of Ansarada Group Limited  
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on the 
proposed acquisition of Ansarada Group Limited (Ansarada) by DS Answer Pty Ltd (DS 
Answer) (the Proposed Acquisition).  
DS Answer is a wholly owned subsidiary of Mermaid EquityCo L.P. (Mermaid), which owns 
and controls Datasite, LLC (Datasite). Datasite and Ansarada both supply virtual data room 
(VDR) and transaction management software solutions in the enterprise content and 
collaboration (ECC) industry. Further information on the merger parties is provided at 
Attachment A.  
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact on competition. In particular, we are 
seeking your views on: 
• 
how closely Datasite and Ansarada compete in the supply of VDR and transaction 
management software solutions in Australia 
• 
the likely impact on prices and service quality in the supply of VDR and transaction 
management software solutions in Australia if the proposed acquisition proceeds 
• 
whether customers of Datasite and Ansarada will have access to alternative 
suppliers (actual and/or potential) in Australia after the proposed acquisition. 
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
How to share your views  
Please provide your response by 5pm on 12 April 2024 via email to mergers@accc.gov.au 
with the title: Submission re: Datasite’s proposed acquisition of Ansarada. If you require more 
time to respond, please let us know. 
If you would like to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any questions about this 
letter, please contact mergers@accc.gov.au.  


 
 
2
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public Mergers 
Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC treats sensitive information it receives during a merger review as confidential, and 
will not publish your submission. We will not disclose submissions to third parties (except 
our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of 
information legislation or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the 
Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, we will notify you in advance where possible so that you have an opportunity to 
be heard. Therefore please clearly indicate if any information you provide is confidential. Our 
Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
 
Bruce Mikkelsen  
Acting General Manager  
Merger Investigations  
 
 
 


 
 
3
Attachment A 
DS Answer 
DS Answer is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Mermaid, which wholly owns and controls 
Datasite. CapVest Partners LLP (CapVest), a private equity firm, owns and controls 97.2% of 
Mermaid through its investment fund CapVest Fund IV and CapVest Strategic Opportunities 
Fund III. The other 2.8% of Mermaid is owned by Datasite management. 
Datasite 
Datasite is a US incorporated software as a service (SaaS) platform used by enterprises to 
execute strategic projects. Datasite provides services in Australia and overseas, with its 
users primarily located in North America and EMEA. Datasite’s users range from large 
enterprises to small-to-medium businesses, including law firms, investment banking, 
consultants, tax and accounting firms, corporations, private capital and governments.  
Datasite’s product suite includes VDR solutions ('Datasite Prepare', 'Datasite Firmex', 
'Datasite Acquire' and 'Datasite Archive'), board reporting solutions ('Sherpany'), a pipeline 
management application ('Datasite Pipeline'), a market intelligence application ('Datasite 
Intelligence') and a project marketing platform ('Datasite Outreach'). These products are sold 
on a project-by-project basis, with the opportunity for a combined subscription contract 
through 'Datasite Cloud'.    
Ansarada 
Ansarada is an ASX-listed provider of a SaaS platform comprising 5 solutions, being VDR 
and transaction management, board management, compliance, ESG and procurement 
solutions. 
Ansarada’s largest product is ‘Deals’, a VDR solution for an end-to-end transaction process. 
It also offers a platform centralising the procurement process, and secure file sharing and 
storage tools.  
The Proposed Acquisition 
DS Answer proposes to acquire Ansarada by way of a Scheme of Arrangement.  
Prior to implementation of the Proposed Acquisition, Ansarada’s board portal software 
solution, and its environmental, governance, risk and compliance software solutions will be 
carved out and sold to a separate entity. Accordingly, at implementation, Ansarada will only 
hold assets associated with the provision of VDR and transaction management software 
solutions. 
Product overview  
Virtual data rooms (VDR) and transaction management software solutions are part of the 
enterprise content and collaboration (ECC) industry, used by organisations to manage and 
share documents, data and information for transaction use cases, such as mergers and 
acquisitions, debt and equity capital raising transactions or bankruptcy. ECC software for 
transaction use cases, such as VDR solutions, may have tailored features, including 
document redaction, project management functionality and Q&A functions.  
Other ECC solutions include corporate use cases (i.e., business-as-usual use cases), such as 
collaboration initiatives (e.g., joint venture or licensing), audit, capital expenditure or 
operating expenditure projects to meet reporting requirements.  


 
 
4
Attachment B 
1. Describe your business or organisation and explain your interest in the Proposed 
Acquisition, including any commercial relationship(s) with Datasite or Ansarada. 
If you are a supplier or customer of either of the parties, please provide details of these 
commercial arrangements, including the value of the products supplied/purchased and 
terms of the arrangements (e.g., the duration and expiry of any contract).  
The questions below are divided into ‘customer’ and ‘competitor’ categories, but you are 
welcome to comment on any question/s in any category.  
Questions for customers 
2. 
Describe how closely Datasite and Ansarada compete in the supply of VDR and 
transaction management software solutions in Australia. Consider factors such as price, 
product features, support, innovation and branding.  
3. 
Comment on the similarities and differences between VDR and transaction software 
solutions and other ECC solutions. Consider factors such as functionality and customer 
bases. 
4. 
Describe: 
a. the alternative suppliers of VDR and transaction management software solutions 
available to you 
b. the extent to which you use, or can use, other ECC solutions instead of VDR and 
transaction management software solutions.  
Explain the factors influencing your choice of supplier, including for example, price, 
product features, support, innovation and branding. Provide examples where possible. 
5. 
Comment on the ease or difficulty for customers to switch to different VDR and 
transaction management software solution suppliers. Consider factors such as the timing 
and costs of implementation. Provide examples where possible. 
6. 
Identify providers which have entered or expanded to supply VDR and transaction 
management software solutions in Australia in the last 3 years. 
7. 
Describe the extent to which: 
a. Datasite or Ansarada supply VDR and transaction management software solutions 
that are a ‘must have’ for your business 
b. you use the same supplier for product combinations for transaction and corporate 
use cases.  
Comment on whether your ability to access important products or combinations of 
products will be affected post-acquisition. 
8. 
For the VDR and transaction management software solutions that you acquire from 
Datasite or Ansarada in Australia, describe how you would respond if prices 
increased, or service levels decreased post-acquisition.  
 
Questions for competitors 
9. Identify the type of products you supply across VDR and transaction management 
software and/or other ECC solutions. Comment on the similarities and differences 
between VDR solutions and transaction management software and other ECC solutions. 
Consider factors such as functionality and customer bases. 


 
 
5
10. Identify your competitors for the supply of VDR and transaction management software 
and/or other ECC solutions in Australia. Provide market shares where possible, and the 
basis for such shares. 
11. If your organisation’s core product offering is VDR and transaction management 
software or other ECC solutions only, comment on the ease or difficulty for your 
organisation to switch to supplying other ECC solutions and VDR and transaction 
management software solutions respectively.  
12. Comment on the ease or difficulty for customers to switch to different VDR and 
transaction management software solution suppliers in response to an increase in price 
or decrease in service levels post-acquisition. 
13. Comment on the likelihood of new entry or expansion in the supply of VDR and 
transaction management software solutions in Australia if there were an increase in 
prices. You may wish to comment on the following: 
 
a. the time and costs involved with entry or expansion 
b. the scale necessary to supply at competitive prices  
c. the ease of securing customers and contracts for supply 
d. the importance of branding and reputation 
e. any other barriers. 
Provide recent examples of new entry or expansion where possible. 
Additional information 
14. Provide any additional information or comments that you consider relevant to the 
ACCC’s consideration of the Proposed Acquisition. 
