 
Land of the Ngunnawal people
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
Tel 02 6243 1111 
Fax 02 6243 1199
www.accc.gov.au
Our ref: 
IM-72355 
Contact officer: 
Winnie Cheung 
Contact phone: 
(03) 9290 1425 
10 November 2023 
Dear Interested Party 
Request for submissions: Etex’s proposed acquisition of BGC Lightweight 
Materials 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
Etex Australia Pty Ltd’s (Etex) proposed acquisition of BGC Lightweight Materials from 
BGC (Australia) Pty Ltd (the proposed acquisition). 
Etex and BGC Lightweight Materials both supply plasterboard (and related plasterboard 
accessories) and fibre cement in Australia. Further details are provided at Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact on competition. In particular, we are 
seeking your views on: 
• 
how closely Etex and BGC compete with each other  
• 
the likely impact of the proposed acquisition on prices and/or service quality for 
plasterboard and fibre cement, and 
• 
whether customers would have sufficient alternative suppliers for plasterboard and 
fibre cement. 
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
Please provide your response by 27 November 2023 via email to mergers@accc.gov.au 
with the title: Submission re: Etex/BGC Lightweight Materials - attention Winnie Cheung. If 
you require more time to respond, please let us know. 
If you would like to arrange a time to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any 
questions about this letter, please contact Winnie Cheung on (03) 9290 1425. 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public 
Mergers Register at ACCC mergers register. 


Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC treats sensitive information it receives during a merger review as confidential, 
and will not publish your submission. We will not disclose submissions to third parties 
(except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of 
information legislation or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the 
Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, we will notify you in advance where possible so that you have an opportunity to 
be heard. Therefore please clearly indicate if any information you provide is confidential. 
Our Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on 
confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
Daniel McCracken-Hewson 
General Manager  
Merger Investigations  
 


 
Attachment A 
The proposed acquisition 
Etex is proposing to acquire the business assets of BGC Lightweight Materials from 
BGC (Australia) Pty Ltd. BGC Lightweight Materials comprises BGC Plasterboard 
and BGC Fibre Cement. The proposed acquisition does not include the assets of any 
other BGC business in Australia such as asphalt, cement, windows, engineered 
suspended flooring, brick or pre-cast materials. 
Etex 
Etex is a global manufacturer and supplier of various building materials and 
solutions. In Australia, Etex supplies: 
• 
plasterboards (and related accessories) under the brand Siniat 
• 
fibre cement products under the brand names Equitone and Kalsi, and 
• 
passive fibre protection products and high temperature insulation materials 
and solutions under the brand names Promat and Skamol.  
Etex operates three plasterboard manufacturing plants, located in Victoria, NSW and 
Queensland, as well as a metal profile production facility in Queensland. 
BGC Lightweight Materials 
BGC Lightweight Materials is a division of the BGC Group. In Australia, BGC 
Lightweight Materials supplies: 
• 
plasterboard and related accessories through BGC Plasterboard under the 
GTEK brand, and  
• 
fibre cement through BGC Fibre Cement.  
BGC Plasterboard operates a plasterboard manufacturing facility in WA. 
 
 


Attachment B 
1. Please provide a brief description of your business or organisation, including any 
commercial relationship(s) with Etex and/or BGC Lightweight Materials. 
Questions for customers (including distributors) 
2. Discuss how, and from which supplier, you procure each of (i) plasterboard and 
(ii) fibre cement, including whether it is through formal tender or other methods, 
typical duration of contract(s), whether contracts are typically for national or state-
based supply and whether you also procure other related accessories and 
services (such as structural engineering and on-site installation support services) 
from the same supplier. 
3. Discuss how closely Etex and BGC Lightweight Materials compete in the supply 
of (i) plasterboard and (ii) fibre cement. In your response, please consider factors 
such as the geographic location, product range, product quality, warranties, 
pricing and service quality of each supplier. 
4. For each of (i) plasterboard and (ii) fibre cement, identify and describe the 
alternative suppliers that compete with Etex and BGC Lightweight Materials. In 
your response, please specify the location/s in which they compete (e.g. state-
based, national or other) and consider factors such as pricing and service quality. 
5. Address the geographic distance over which you generally source each of (i) 
plasterboard and (ii) fibre cement, and your ability to source from further away in 
response to a price increase. In your response, please identify transport costs 
and any other relevant factors. 
6. How regularly do you switch suppliers of (i) plasterboard and (ii) fibre cement?  
a. What factors influence your decision to switch?  
b. Have you used any quote from another supplier to get better prices or 
service quality from your existing supplier? Please provide any examples. 
7. Discuss what building products are the closest substitutes for (i) plasterboard and 
(ii) fibre cement. 
Questions for competitors  
8. 
Identify whether you supply (i) plasterboard and (ii) fibre cement products in 
Australia. Please specify the location/s in which you supply the products, the 
extent to which you supply directly to customers and through distributors or 
hardware stores, whether you manufacture or import the products, and how you 
obtain the raw materials for the manufacturing of the relevant products. 
9. Identify and describe your competitors for the supply of (i) plasterboard and (ii) 
fibre cement. In your response, please consider factors such as the geographic 
location of each supplier, pricing and service quality. Please also provide market 
shares where possible, and the basis for such shares. 
10. Address how easy or difficult it is to transport (i) plasterboard and (ii) fibre cement 
across Australia, including identifying transport costs, and transport costs as a 
proportion of your average pricing, for (i) plasterboard and (ii) fibre cement. 


11. Discuss the likelihood of new entry or expansion into the supply of (i) 
plasterboard and (ii) fibre cement. In your response, please comment on the 
capital costs required to build a manufacturing plant and establish distribution 
networks, lead time and any other relevant factors. Please provide any examples 
of new entry or expansion in the last 5 years. 
12. Comment on whether you consider BGC to be a close competitor to you. In your 
response, please explain why or why not. 
Other information or competition issues 
13. Outline any concerns you may have about the proposed acquisition, including any 
impact on price for (i) plasterboard and (ii) fibre cement or service quality. 
14. Please provide any additional information or comments, or identify other competition 
issues, that you consider relevant to the ACCC’s consideration of the proposed 
acquisition. 
 
