 
 
 
MEDIA RELEASE 
 
31 August 2017 
ACCC WON’T OPPOSE TRONOX’S PROPOSED ACQUISITION OF CRISTAL’S 
TITANIUM DIOXIDE BUSINESS  
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission has decided to not oppose the 
proposed acquisition by Tronox Limited of the titanium dioxide business of National Titanium 
Dioxide Company Limited (Cristal). 
Tronox and Cristal both produce titanium dioxide pigment in Australia, which is used as an 
additive in products such as paint, plastics, and ink to impart whiteness, provide opacity 
qualities, and protection by absorbing ultraviolet light. It is most commonly used in the 
production of coatings, largely for architectural and decorative purposes, as well as 
specialised coating applications such as in the automotive or marine industries. 
“The ACCC’s investigation has found that a combined Tronox-Cristal is likely to continue to 
face competition from imported titanium dioxide pigments,” ACCC Commissioner Roger 
Featherston said. 
“Australian pigment demand represents less than one per cent of global demand. The 
presence of other large multinational suppliers that could readily satisfy Australian demand is 
likely to constrain Tronox post-acquisition.”  
Tronox and Cristal both produce titanium dioxide in Western Australia, and there are no 
other Australian manufacturers. However, the product is relatively easy to transport from 
overseas and imports make up approximately 40 per cent of Australian demand.  
“Customers can, and do, pre-approve the use of multiple pigment products from different 
suppliers, in the event of any supply issues. This can act as a bargaining tool as customers 
can threaten to switch suppliers over time in response to an anti-competitive price rise,” Mr 
Featherston said. 
“Greater production in China in recent years of increasing quality appears likely to provide 
additional alternative sources of supply in the future, and we are aware of plans to expand 
Chinese capacity over the next five years.” 
Notes to editors 
Tronox is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and is a global company active in the 
production of titanium dioxide feedstocks and titanium dioxide pigment. In Australia, Tronox 
operates the mineral sands Cooljarloo mine, the Chandala dry mill and synthetic rutile plant, 
and Kwinana titanium dioxide pigment plant.  
Cristal is a private global mineral sands mining and titanium dioxide pigment manufacturing 
company. In Australia, Cristal has activities in mineral sands mining through mines in 
Western Australia and New South Wales. The company also operates titanium dioxide 
pigment production facilities in Western Australia.  
Media enquiries: 1300 138 917 
Email: media@accc.gov.au 
www.accc.gov.au/media  
