 
 
1 
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
tel: (02) 6243 1368
mergers@accc.gov.au
www.accc.gov.au
Our ref: 
IM-71109 
Contact officer: 
Sophie Mitchell; Louis Loizou 
Contact phone: 
03 9290 1822; 03 9290 1412  
3 February 2021 
Dear Interested Party 
Re:  Request for submissions: OneFortyOne Plantations Holdings Pty Ltd’s 
proposed acquisition of Global Forest Partners LP’s softwood plantation 
assets (Green Triangle Forest Products)  
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
the proposed acquisition of Green Triangle Forest Products (GTFP) by OneFortyOne 
Plantations Holdings Pty Ltd (OFO) (the proposed acquisition). 
OFO is an integrated timber company, being both a forest grower and owning a structural 
sawmill in the Green Triangle region. GTFP is a forest grower and is currently owned by 
investors managed by Global Forest Partners LP. Further details regarding the proposed 
acquisition can be found at Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact on competition. In particular, we are 
seeking your views on: 
• 
the impact of the proposed acquisition on the prices for softwood fibre products in 
the Green Triangle region (encompassing Western Victoria);  
• 
whether OFO and GTFP compete closely; and  
• 
whether OFO would be able to:  
o restrict the supply of its softwood fibre products to rival sawmills for 
processing; or 
o refuse to process rival forest growers’ softwood fibre products and therefore 
restrict their ability to supply sawmill customers.  
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. The 
ACCC is also considering a proposal by New Forests Asset Management Pty Ltd to 
acquire Global Forest Partners LP’s softwood plantation assets. More information is 


 
2 
available on the ACCC’s public mergers register (link). 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in 
section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions 
that are likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
Please provide your response by no later than 5pm on 17 February 2021. Responses may 
be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: Submission re: OFO / GTFP - attention 
Sophie Mitchell/Louis Loizou.  
If you would like to arrange a time to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any 
questions about this letter, please contact Sophie Mitchell on 03 9290 1822 or Louis Loizou 
on 03 9290 1412. 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public 
Mergers Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We will not 
disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by 
law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or during court proceedings) or 
in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010.  Where the 
ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, the ACCC will notify you in advance 
where possible so that you may have an opportunity to be heard.  Therefore, if the 
information provided to the ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our 
Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
Sheridan de Kruiff 
General Manager (A/g) 
Merger Investigations 


 
 
3 
Attachment A 
Information about the merger parties and the proposed acquisition 
 
The proposed acquisition    
 
OneFortyOne Plantations Holdings Pty Ltd (OFO) proposes to acquire 100% of the units in 
World Timberfund Australia Trust, which owns the business known as Green Triangle 
Forest Products (GTFP), from investors managed by Global Forest Partners LP (GFP).  
 
The Green Triangle region spans the border between South Australia and Victoria and 
consists of two types of plantations, softwood and hardwood estates. The GTFP estate 
consists of softwood plantations spread throughout the Green Triangle region in Tarpeena, 
Cafpirco, Kongorong, Caroline, Kentbruck and Dartmoor. The estate comprises a total 
productive area of about 22,200 hectares.  
 
The types of softwood products produced by forest growers include sawlogs (used in 
timber production), round wood logs (used to manufacture posts and poles), pulplogs, and 
woodchips (used to manufacture particleboard and paper).  
 
OFO 
 
OFO is an integrated timber company that is majority owned by Australian funds and 
operates across both Australia and New Zealand. It is the largest of the Green Triangle 
forest growers, leasing the long-term harvesting rights to a softwood plantation estate from 
the South Australian Government. OFO’s plantation estate sits across both South Australia 
and Victoria and comprises a total productive area of approximately 83,000 hectares.  
 
OFO owns the Jubilee Highway Sawmill (Jubilee) in Mount Gambier, which is a structural 
sawmill that produces timber products for customers across Australia. GTFP currently 
supplies Jubilee with a significant proportion of Jubilee’s sawlog requirements under a long-
term agreement. 
 
GTFP and GFP  
 
GTFP is the smallest of the large Green Triangle forest growers. The majority of GTFP's 
sawlogs are already committed to OFO’s Jubilee.  
 
GFP is a US-based forestry investment adviser that manages approximately US$3 billion in 
forestry assets and 700,000 hectares of timberland worldwide, including in Australia where 
it has been active since 1999. GFP manages approximately 266,500 hectares of timberland 
in Australia.1 
  
                                               
1 https://www.gfplp.com/our-experience; https://www.gfplp.com/map.   


 
 
4 
Attachment B 
1. Please describe your business or organisation and explain your interest in the 
proposed acquisition, including any commercial relationship(s) with OFO or 
GTFP.  
Questions for customers (e.g. sawmills, softwood processors or end users)  
2. Identify and describe the types of softwood products (e.g. structural sawlog, non-
structural sawlog and/or log specifications) you procure in Australia and your 
current suppliers. 
3. Please describe how you procure different types of softwood products—for 
example, through formal tender or other methods—and set out what contracts 
you currently have in place (including expiry dates). 
4. For each softwood product you procure in Australia, please identify and describe 
the alternative suppliers capable of servicing your needs. In your response, 
please identify any suppliers you consider particularly effective competitors (for 
example, through their innovation, product offering or service). 
5. Please explain whether you consider OFO and GTFP to be close competitors in 
the supply of softwood products in the Green Triangle region. In your response, 
consider factors such as the types of products they supply, their geographic 
areas of supply, and their participation in tender processes. 
6. Please explain your views as to whether prices may increase or service levels 
may decrease due to the proposed acquisition for any softwood product in 
Australia. 
7. Please explain whether you would be able to bypass supply of any softwood 
products from the combined entity by self-supplying or sponsoring the entry of 
another supplier. Please provide examples where possible. 
Questions for competitors (e.g. forest growers or sawmills)  
8. 
Please identify the softwood products you supply in Australia. 
9. 
For each product you supply, please identify your competitors and estimate 
market shares where possible. 
10. Please discuss the importance of innovation and research and development in 
competition in the supply of softwood products in Australia and provide any 
relevant examples. 
11. Please discuss the likelihood of new entry or expansion in these markets. For 
example, the ACCC understands that barriers for softwood production may 
include access to land and water licences, and barriers for softwood processing 
may include capital investment and access to log supply. In your response, 
please consider the likely timeframe for market entry and provide details about 
barriers to entry, such as any regulatory barriers, or access to key inputs. Please 
reference which of the barriers to entry you consider to be the most onerous. 
Please also provide examples of recent entry where possible. 
Other  
12. Please provide any additional information or comments that you consider relevant to 
the ACCC’s consideration under section 50 of the Act.  
