ACCC WILL NOT OPPOSE ADSTREAM’S PROPOSED ACQUISITION OF 
DUBSAT 
29 September 2016 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission will not oppose Adstream Pty Ltd’s 
proposed acquisition of Dubsat Pty Ltd. 
The ACCC’s review focused on Adstream’s and Dubsat’s overlap in the electronic delivery of 
advertising content to print publishers, television broadcasters, and radio stations. In 
particular, it considered the impact of the transaction on magazines and brands that do 
national or large-scale print advertising.  
“Some market participants raised concerns that the acquisition would remove the only 
alternative third-party supplier of print advertising delivery services, which could lead to 
higher prices,” ACCC Commissioner Roger Featherston said. 
However, the ACCC found that the majority of print advertising is already delivered directly 
to publishers without using the services of Adstream or Dubsat. In particular, advertisers and 
advertising agencies deliver content directly to publishers through online portals, including 
those already developed by Fairfax, News Corporation and other publishers. These portals 
and other forms of direct delivery represent an increasing competitive threat to Adstream 
and Dubsat.  
“Adstream and Dubsat are also part of a dynamic industry where the options for direct 
delivery are likely to further improve with technological advancements,” Mr Featherston said. 
“The ACCC took into account the changes affecting the print advertising industry and its 
decline. We believe most publishers will be receptive to advertising content being delivered 
by direct methods if brands are dissatisfied with Adstream’s prices or service.”  
“The ACCC also considered the increasing ability of advertisers to reach audiences outside 
of traditional media, including digital platforms, that don’t rely on the delivery services of 
Adstream and Dubsat,” Mr Featherston said.    
For television and radio advertising, the ACCC determined that Adstream and Dubsat are 
likely to face competition from: 
 
other advertising delivery service providers 
 
the threat that large overseas  players could enter the market 
 
the ability of advertisers on radio stations to deliver directly.             
Further information is available at www.accc.gov.au.   


Background 
In addition to facilitating the movement of content from advertisers and advertising agencies 
to publishers and broadcasters, Adstream and Dubsat provide validation and quality control 
checks to ensure advertising content is delivered in the correct format, and integrated 
workflows, between advertisers and broadcasters or publishers. 
 
