Page 1 of 26 
 
Statement of Issues 
14 November 2024 
Cleanaway Waste Management Limited – 
proposed acquisition of Citywide Waste 
Purpose 
1. 
Cleanaway Waste Management Limited (Cleanaway) has agreed to acquire the 
waste and recycling business of Citywide Service Solutions Pty Ltd (Citywide 
Waste), which includes the operation of the waste transfer station located at 
391-395 Dynon Road in West Melbourne (Dynon Road Facility). 
2. 
This Statement of Issues: 
• gives the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission’s (ACCC) 
preliminary views on competition issues arising from the proposed 
acquisition 
• identifies areas of further inquiry 
• invites interested parties to submit comments and information to assist our 
assessment of the issues. 
3. 
Statements of Issues do not refer to confidential information provided by the 
parties or other market participants and therefore may not fully articulate the 
ACCC’s preliminary position. 
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views 
4. 
In considering the proposed acquisition, the ACCC applies the legal test set out 
in section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the CCA). In general 
terms, section 50 prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to 
have the effect, of substantially lessening competition in any market. 
5. 
The ACCC divides its preliminary views into three categories, 'issues of concern', 
'issues that may raise concerns' and ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’. In this 
Statement of Issues there is one ‘issue of concern’, two ‘issues that may raise 
concerns’ and one ‘issue unlikely to raise concerns’. 


Page 2 of 26 
Issue of concern  
Reduction in competition in the supply of putrescible waste disposal services for 
commercial and industrial waste 
6. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is likely to have the 
effect of substantially lessening competition in the supply of putrescible waste1 
disposal services in Melbourne for commercial and industrial waste, particularly 
in the central and west regions of Melbourne.  
7. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition would remove the 
competitive tension between Citywide Waste’s Dynon Road Facility and nearby 
putrescible waste disposal facilities operated by Cleanaway, including 
Melbourne Regional Landfill. The ACCC is concerned that this would likely lead 
to higher prices for putrescible waste disposal services for commercial and 
industrial waste.  
Issues that may raise concerns 
Reduction in competition in the supply of putrescible waste disposal services for 
municipal waste 
8. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition may have the effect of 
substantially lessening competition in the supply of putrescible waste disposal 
services for municipal waste for councils in the vicinity of Melbourne’s central 
business district. 
9. 
The ACCC is concerned that proposed acquisition may impact those councils 
able to use the Dynon Road transfer station to lower the overall waste 
management costs associated with their putrescible waste. In particular, for 
those councils where Dynon Road is part of an alternative option to sending 
waste directly to Melbourne Regional Landfill, the proposed acquisition may 
remove the benefits of competitive tension between Melbourne Regional Landfill 
and Dynon Road in future municipal waste disposal tender processes. 
Foreclosure of rivals in the supply of waste collection services 
10. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition may have the effect of 
substantially lessening competition in the supply of commercial and industrial 
waste collection services for putrescible waste. 
11. 
The ACCC is concerned that post-acquisition Cleanaway may have the ability 
and incentive to exercise the market power it would hold in putrescible waste 
disposal in the central and west regions of metropolitan Melbourne to foreclose 
commercial and industrial collections rivals’ access to key putrescible waste 
disposal facilities, such as Dynon Road, through raising rivals’ costs through 
higher prices and/or lower quality services. Engaging in such a strategy may limit 
the ability of Cleanaway’s rivals to effectively compete for commercial and 
 
 
1 Putrescible wastes contain organic matter capable of being decomposed by microorganisms.  


Page 3 of 26 
industrial collections customers, and may lead to higher prices and/or reduced 
quality for these collections services. 
12. 
The ACCC is also concerned that the proposed acquisition may have the effect 
of substantially lessening competition in the supply of municipal waste 
collection services for putrescible waste. 
13. 
The ACCC is also considering whether the acquisition would increase 
Cleanaway’s ability and incentive to foreclose rival providers of municipal 
collections services for putrescible waste, and in doing so impact these rivals' 
ability to effectively compete for municipal collections contracts for the councils 
located in the vicinity of the Melbourne central business district. 
14. 
The ACCC is considering whether this could occur through raising rivals' costs 
through higher prices or providing lower quality services where waste is 
collected by rivals at the Dynon Road facility. The ACCC is also considering 
whether this could occur through bundling (or otherwise connecting) Dynon 
Road’s services with municipal collections services, or bundling (or otherwise 
connecting) Dynon Road’s services, Melbourne Regional Landfill’s services and 
municipal collections services. In assessing this issue, the ACCC is considering 
both current practice and potential future practice regarding tenders for 
municipal collection and disposals. 
Issues unlikely to raise concerns 
Foreclosure of feedstocks for waste to energy facilities 
15. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to have 
the effect of substantially lessening competition in the supply of waste to energy 
services in Melbourne. The ACCC considered whether the proposed acquisition 
would have the effect of foreclosing potential rival waste to energy facilities 
access to an important feedstock of waste coming from the Dynon Road Facility; 
however, the ACCC understands that there are a number of alternative sources 
of waste that rival developers of waste to energy facilities could seek to use. 
Making a submission 
16. 
The ACCC invites submissions from interested parties, particularly on the 
following key issues: 
• the closeness of competition between Citywide Waste’s Dynon Road Facility 
and nearby putrescible waste disposal facilities operated by Cleanaway, 
including Melbourne Regional Landfill for commercial and industrial waste 
• the extent to which alternative putrescible waste disposal facilities in 
Melbourne are effective alternatives to the Dynon Road Facility and 
Cleanaway’s nearby disposal facilities for commercial and industrial waste, 
particularly in the central and west regions of Melbourne 
• the extent to which the Dynon Road Facility and nearby putrescible waste 
disposal facilities operated by Cleanaway, including Melbourne Regional 


Page 4 of 26 
Landfill, are considered as part of alternative options by councils in the 
vicinity of Melbourne’s central business district for putrescible waste disposal 
• for each of the above points, the degree to which competition between 
disposal facilities is impacted by distance and/or travel time (and the 
associated transportation costs) between waste collection sites and disposal 
facility sites, as well as other key factors that impact the degree of 
competition between these facilities 
• the likelihood that, post-acquisition, Cleanaway would have the ability and 
incentive to foreclose rival suppliers of commercial and industrial waste 
collection services from putrescible waste disposal services in central and 
west metropolitan Melbourne by raising rivals’ costs through higher prices 
and/or lower service levels 
• the likelihood that, post-acquisition, Cleanaway would have the ability and 
incentive to foreclose rival suppliers of municipal putrescible waste collection 
services by raising rivals’ costs through higher prices or lower quality services 
at the Dynon Road Facility, or by bundling (or otherwise connecting) their 
municipal disposal and collection services, particularly for councils in the 
vicinity of Melbourne’s central business district, taking into account both 
current tendering practice and any changes in the future. 
17. 
Interested parties should provide submissions by 28 November 2024. 
Responses may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: Submission 
re: Cleanaway/Citywide Waste. If you would like to discuss the matter with ACCC 
staff or have any questions about this Statement of Issues, please email 
mergers@accc.gov.au.  
18. 
The ACCC anticipates making a final decision on 13 February 2025, however, 
this timeline can change. To keep up with possible timing changes and to find 
relevant documents, interested parties should visit the Mergers Register on the 
ACCC's website at www.accc.gov.au/publicregisters/mergers-registers/public-
informal-merger-reviews. 
Confidentiality of submissions 
19. 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We 
will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) 
unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation 
or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the CCA. Where 
the ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, the ACCC will notify 
you in advance where possible so that you may have an opportunity to be heard. 
Therefore, please identify any confidential information that is provided to the 
ACCC. Our Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information 
on confidentiality. 
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’ 
20. 
A Statement of Issues is not a final decision about a proposed acquisition. A 
Statement of Issues outlines the ACCC’s preliminary views and identifies further 
lines of inquiry. 


Page 5 of 26 
21. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties 
(including customers, competitors and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 
Industry background 
Waste types and services 
22. 
Waste can be “putrescible” or “non-putrescible”. Putrescible waste contains 
organic matter capable of being decomposed by microorganisms. Non-
putrescible waste is primarily non-organic waste such as paper, cardboard, 
plastics and metal, and may be recyclable or non-recyclable. Putrescible waste is 
the main type of waste relevant to the acquisition. 
23. 
There are multiple activities conducted by the waste management industry. For 
putrescible waste the key activities are: 
• Collections services: which involves collecting and transporting waste to a 
disposal facility. 
• Disposal services: which involves operating a disposal facility that receives 
waste from companies that provide collections services, or other waste 
transport services. Disposal facilities include at transfer stations, landfills and 
future waste to energy facilities in Victoria. 
24. 
40% of Australia’s waste is disposed of in landfills.2 State governments often 
impose landfill diversion targets and landfill levies to encourage resource 
recovery. Landfill disposal fees include the Victorian waste levy, which for 2024-
2025 is $132.76 per tonne.3 While landfills also vary in size, landfills are 
generally much larger facilities than transfer stations and can be engineered 
facilities capable of accepting several hundred thousand tonnes of waste per 
year.  
25. 
There are several large landfills in Melbourne, including Cleanaway’s Melbourne 
Regional Landfill. Due to their size and the need to include a buffer zone to 
separate the landfill from neighbouring properties, these landfills are generally 
located in the outer suburbs of Melbourne.  
26. 
Due to the location of Melbourne’s landfills, transfer stations are useful as 
consolidation points for aggregating waste for bulk transport to final disposal 
sites, such as landfills. Transfer stations charge their customers for the 
transportation of waste from their facility to the final disposal site, and their fees 
can include the landfill disposal fees. Transfer stations can vary in size; some 
 
 
2 https://www.dcceew.gov.au/environment/protection/waste/publications/national-waste-
reports/2013/infrastructure  
3 https://www.epa.vic.gov.au/for-business/find-a-topic/landfill-guidance/waste-levy  


Page 6 of 26 
transfer stations in Melbourne are primarily used to dispose residential waste, 
whereas others (including the Dynon Road Facility) can accept waste from 
companies that collect residential waste, and commercial and industrial waste. 
As shown in Figure 1 below, most of the transfer stations we have considered to 
date are located closer to Melbourne’s central business district than landfills.  
27. 
Disposal facilities require licences to accept putrescible waste, however 
putrescible facilities generally also accept non-putrescible waste. Recycling 
facilities accept specific types of waste, such as paper and cardboard, green and 
timber waste, and glass waste. 
Collections services 
28. 
The waste collections services relevant to the proposed acquisition are: 
• Municipal council collections for putrescible waste: which involves the 
kerbside collection of residential general / putrescible waste. The ACCC 
understands that Melbourne councils currently typically tender for collections 
and disposal services for putrescible waste separately. The collections 
service provider will transport the waste to the putrescible waste disposal 
facility nominated by the council. 
• Commercial and industrial collections for putrescible waste: which involves 
the collection and disposal of putrescible waste from commercial and 
industrial businesses or organisations including commercial sites, 
government facilities, educational institutions and industrial sites.  
Disposal services 
29. 
The waste disposal services relevant to the proposed acquisition are: 
• Disposal of commercial and industrial putrescible waste: after waste is 
collected from businesses or organisations, the commercial and industrial 
collector will choose the disposal facility to drop their waste at. The ACCC 
understands that it is common for collectors to have tipping agreements with 
a range of disposal facilities and these agreements are non-exclusive. The 
choice of facility tends to be impacted by the disposal costs, including gate 
fees and transportation costs, determined by the distance between their 
customers’ sites, their depot, and the disposal facility (which determine the 
collectors’ collection routes). The ACCC understands that many commercial 
and industrial waste collectors consider transfer stations and landfills to both 
be viable options to dispose of waste, on the condition that the transfer 
station can accept commercial volumes of waste. 
• Disposal of municipal putrescible waste: as identified above, municipal 
councils in Melbourne currently typically tender for disposal services 
separately to collections services for putrescible waste. Further, the 
collections provider will generally be directed by the council to dispose of the 
waste at a nominated putrescible waste disposal facility. The ACCC 


Page 7 of 26 
understands that the majority of Melbourne councils currently have contracts 
to dispose of their waste at Cleanaway’s Melbourne Regional Landfill, South 
East Melbourne Transfer Station and Lysterfield Resource Recovery Centre, 
pursuant to a tender run by the Metropolitan Waste Resource Recovery 
Group.4 
Diversion from landfill 
30. 
The Victorian government has set targets towards the long-term diversion of 
recycled and organic material from landfill. These targets are: 80% of waste from 
all waste streams being diverted from landfill and 50% reduction in organic 
material going to landfill by 2030.5  
31. 
As part of these targets, the Victorian government recognises the role of waste 
to energy facilities to divert waste from landfills. Although there are no waste to 
energy facilities currently in operation in Victoria, three facilities have received 
development approval.6 The Victorian government has set a one million tonne 
cap on the amount of waste that can be heat treated to make energy as a means 
of limiting diversion from recycling.  
32. 
The ACCC understands that the three currently approved facilities are not 
subject to the Victorian government cap and there are a number of proposed 
facilities that are yet to receive approval, including Cleanaway’s Melbourne 
Energy and Resource Centre at Wollert.7 
33. 
The ACCC understands that waste to energy facilities can vary in capacity, from 
smaller scale facilities capable of accepting roughly 100,000 tonnes of waste to 
large scale facilities capable of accepting roughly 250,000 tonnes of waste. The 
ACCC also understands that there are high capital costs and long lead times (5 
years or more) involved in the development and construction of waste to energy 
facilities. As such, it is common for companies to secure disposal contracts, 
particularly with municipal councils, before committing funding to construction.  
The parties 
The acquirer: Cleanaway 
34. 
Cleanaway is an ASX-listed company (ASX:CWY) that provides recycling, waste 
management and industrial services in Australia. This includes the supply of 
waste management services to municipal councils and commercial and 
industrial customers.  
 
 
4 https://www.cleanaway.com.au/sustainable-future/cleanaway-wins-contract-21-melbourne-
councils/#:~:text=Regional%20Manager%20Melinda%20Lizza%20said,than%20605%2C000%20tonnes%2
0per%20year.  
5 https://www.vic.gov.au/strategic-plan-2023-2026  
6 Veolia at Maryvale, REA Solo at Laverton, and Great Southern Waste Technologies at Dandenong 
7 https://www.cleanaway.com.au/location/melbourne-energy-and-resource-centre/  


Page 8 of 26 
35. 
Cleanaway owns and/or operates a number of waste disposal and processing 
facilities in Melbourne: 
• Transfer stations licensed to accept both putrescible and inert waste: 
Brooklyn, Lysterfield and South East Melbourne Transfer Station (in 
Dandenong South) 
• Transfer stations licensed to accept only inert waste: Altona, Clayton South 
and Hallam 
• Material recovery facilities:8 Coolaroo, Laverton 
• Organics processing facility:9 South East Organics Facility (in Dandenong 
South) 
• Putrescible landfill: Melbourne Regional Landfill (in Ravenhall) 
The target: Citywide Waste 
36. 
Citywide Waste provides waste management services in Melbourne only. It is 
currently fully owned by the Melbourne City Council and provides waste 
collections services to municipal councils and commercial and industrial 
customers.  
37. 
Citywide Waste operates the Dynon Road Facility, a putrescible waste transfer 
station located at 391-395 Dynon Road in West Melbourne, which processes and 
transfers municipal and commercial and industrial waste from Citywide Waste 
and other waste management providers. Annually, the Dynon Road Facility 
receives over 200,000 tonnes of waste and recycling material.10 
Other industry participants 
Major providers of waste management services in Australia 
38. 
There are a number of large providers of waste management services in 
Australia who offer disposal and/or collections services across multiple states. 
Some of these providers are described below, including a brief description of 
their activities in Melbourne. 
39. 
Veolia is a publicly listed company headquartered in France, with operations in 
48 countries. In Australia, Veolia supplies water management, waste 
management and energy solutions through various wholly owned subsidiaries. In 
Melbourne, Veolia operates the Hallam Road landfill at Hampton Park and is 
 
 
8 Material recovery facilities focus on resource recovery, including the sorting, separation and conversion 
of waste to reusable products. 
9 Organics processing facilities receive and treat waste such as food and organic waste for reuse as 
compost. 
10 https://cleanaway2stor.blob.core.windows.net/cleanaway2-blob-container/2024/06/Acquisition-Of-
Citywide-Waste-2738213.pdf  


Page 9 of 26 
developing a waste to energy facility in Maryvale (in eastern Victoria). Veolia is 
also active in commercial and industrial waste collection in Melbourne. 
40. 
Remondis is a multinational group that supplies waste and water management 
services. In Australia, Remondis supplies waste management services to 
municipal councils, and commercial and industrial customers. In Melbourne, 
Remondis supplies commercial and industrial waste collection services. 
41. 
JJ Richards is a large privately owned company that provides waste 
management services, including collection and disposal in Australia. In 
Melbourne, JJ Richards provides waste collection services to various municipal 
councils, and commercial and industrial customers. 
42. 
Bingo provides waste collection and processing services primarily for building 
and demolition, and commercial and industrial customers. Bingo has several 
resource recovery and recycling facilities across NSW and Victoria. In 
Melbourne, Bingo has recycling and transfer facilities in West Melbourne, 
Campbellfield, Clarinda and Dandenong, which the ACCC understands are not 
licenced to accept putrescible waste. 
Municipal waste collection providers 
43. 
In addition to Cleanaway, Citywide Waste and JJ Richards, the ACCC 
understands that the following companies also currently provide collections 
services to Melbourne municipal councils: 
• Solo is a collections company headquartered in NSW. In Melbourne, Solo 
supplies waste collection services to commercial and industrial customers, 
and municipal councils. 
• Four Seasons provides waste collection services to municipal councils in 
Melbourne.   
Putrescible waste disposal facilities in Melbourne 
44. 
Market feedback has indicated that there are a number of waste disposal 
facilities in Melbourne with the capacity to accept large volumes of putrescible 
waste. These are listed in Table 1 and presented in Figure 1. 
Table 1: Putrescible waste facilities in Melbourne 
Operator 
Putrescible waste 
disposal facility 
location (and name) 
Approximate driving distance 
from Melbourne CBD 
Landfills 
Cleanaway 
Ravenhall 
(Melbourne Regional 
Landfill) 
30km 
Hi-Quality 
Bulla (Sunbury 
Landfill) 
35km 


Page 10 of 26 
Operator 
Putrescible waste 
disposal facility 
location (and name) 
Approximate driving distance 
from Melbourne CBD 
Wyndham City Council 
Werribee 
40.5km 
Hanson 
Wollert 
42.5km 
Veolia 
Hampton Park 
(Hallam Road 
Landfill) 
45km 
Transfer stations 
Citywide Waste 
West Melbourne 
(Dynon Road) 
5.5km 
Stonnington City Council 
Malvern 
(Stonnington Waste 
Transfer Station) 
11km 
Cleanaway 
Brooklyn 
14.5km 
Whitehorse City Council 
Vermont (Whitehorse 
Recycling & Waste 
Centre) 
37.5km 
Cleanaway 
Dandenong South 
(South East 
Melbourne Transfer 
Station) 
39km 
Cleanaway 
Lysterfield 
(Lysterfield Resource 
Recovery Centre) 
39km 
Future Recyclers 
Hallam (Future 
Recycling Transfer 
Station Hallam) 
40km 


Page 11 of 26 
Figure 1: Map of putrescible waste facilities in Melbourne 
 
The proposed acquisition 
45. 
Cleanaway proposes to acquire Citywide Waste, including its existing contracts 
and employees, and will enter into a 35-year lease with the Melbourne City 
Council to operate the Dynon Road Facility. 
46. 
As part of the proposed acquisition, Cleanaway has also committed $35 million 
to redevelop the Dynon Road Facility.11 
Future with and without the acquisition  
47. 
In assessing a proposed acquisition under section 50 of the CCA, the ACCC 
considers the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future state of 
competition if the acquisition proceeds (the ’with’ position) to the likely future 
state(s) of competition if the acquisition does not proceed (the ‘without’ 
 
 
11 https://cleanaway2stor.blob.core.windows.net/cleanaway2-blob-container/2024/06/Acquisition-Of-
Citywide-Waste-2738213.pdf  


Page 12 of 26 
position), to determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to substantially 
lessen competition in any relevant market. 
48. 
The ACCC understands that the City of Melbourne undertook a competitive sale 
process for Citywide Waste.12 The ACCC considers that absent the proposed 
acquisition the Citywide Waste business may be sold to another purchaser or 
retained by the City of Melbourne. At this stage, the ACCC’s approach has been 
to compare the likely future state of competition if the proposed acquisition 
proceeds with the status quo, rather than compare the proposed acquisition with 
a scenario where Citywide is acquired by a particular provider or any particular 
development is undertaken. 
Areas of overlap 
49. 
In Melbourne, Cleanaway and Citywide Waste overlap in the supply of: 
• putrescible waste disposal services for commercial and industrial and 
municipal waste 
• commercial and industrial collections 
• municipal collections services. 
50. 
These activities generally overlap in the central and west regions of Melbourne. 
51. 
We note that Cleanaway also provides waste management services across 
Australia, including competing for national or multi regional commercial and 
industrial contracts. Citywide Waste’s activities are more limited and it does not 
have operations outside of Melbourne.  
Market definition 
52. 
The ACCC’s starting point for considering which markets will be affected by the 
proposed acquisition is to identify the areas of overlap between the services 
actually or potentially supplied by the merger parties. The ACCC then considers 
other actual or potential suppliers of those services, as well as other services 
that may constitute sufficiently close substitutes to provide a significant source 
of constraint on the merged entity. 
53. 
The ACCC is continuing to consider the scope of the relevant markets, but has 
so far identified the impact of the proposed acquisition on competition for the 
supply of: 
• putrescible waste disposal services (including both transfer stations and 
landfills) in Melbourne for commercial and industrial waste, particularly in the 
central and west regions of metropolitan Melbourne 
 
 
12 https://www.afr.com/street-talk/john-brumby-chaired-citywide-mulls-options-for-waste-arm-20240206-
p5f2w4 6 February 2024 


Page 13 of 26 
• putrescible waste disposal services (including both transfer stations and 
landfills) in Melbourne for municipal waste, particularly for councils in the 
vicinity of Melbourne’s central business district 
• commercial and industrial waste collection for putrescible waste in 
Melbourne 
• municipal waste collection for putrescible waste for councils in the vicinity of 
Melbourne’s central business district. 
Putrescible waste disposal for commercial and industrial waste 
Product dimension 
54. 
The ACCC considers that putrescible waste disposal is in a separate market to 
non-putrescible waste disposal primarily due to licencing requirements from the 
Victorian Environment Protection Authority. While putrescible waste disposal 
facilities are capable of accepting non-putrescible waste, putrescible waste can 
only be disposed of at facilities that are licensed to accept putrescible waste.   
55. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is also that putrescible waste disposal services for 
commercial and industrial waste is in a separate market to such services for 
municipal waste. While each category of customer may consider similar sets of 
disposal facilities as alternatives, the degree of competition between putrescible 
disposal facilities may differ for municipal and commercial and industrial waste. 
This is because the trucks, collection routes and timing involved in servicing 
each municipality will differ, and will also likely be different for waste collections 
companies servicing commercial and industrial customers. There are also 
differences in the process by which these services are acquired, including the 
potential for municipal councils to collectively procure long term agreements 
with disposal facilities through tender processes.  
Functional dimension 
56. 
The ACCC currently considers that there is a single relevant market that includes 
both transfer stations and landfills. 
57. 
As noted above, these facilities can perform different tasks. At transfer stations, 
waste is aggregated at and then transported in bulk to final disposal sites, such 
as landfills. Waste is generally just dropped at a landfill (it is not aggregated and 
transported away from landfills). As such, transfer stations may rely on landfills 
as an input to the services they supply. 
58. 
While transfer stations and landfills may have a relationship across the supply 
chain, and relative prices can differ to reflect differences in services, the ACCC 
understands that Melbourne Regional Landfill is an alternative for commercial 
and industrial collections companies that drop waste off at the Dynon Road 
transfer station. This is because these facilities are located relatively close to 
each other and they both accept large volumes of putrescible waste. 
Accordingly, they appear to compete directly with one another for commercial 
and industrial waste. 


Page 14 of 26 
Geographic dimension 
59. 
The ACCC considers that the distance between waste collection sites and 
disposal facilities is an important determinant of competition between disposal 
facilities, including competition between transfer stations and landfills. This is 
due to the costs associated with transporting waste between the collection sites, 
disposal sites, and the collection truck depots. These costs include fuel, staff, 
tolls and associated truck maintenance.  
60. 
Companies that provide collection services aim to minimise these costs by 
maximising the volume of waste that can be picked up by a truck before it goes 
to tip at a disposal facility, and minimising the time taken and distance travelled 
between the truck’s stops. As such, the closer disposal facilities are to a 
particular waste collection site, the more likely these facilities are to compete 
with each other for the disposal of the waste from that site. 
61. 
For putrescible commercial and industrial waste, the ACCC understands that 
Cleanaway’s Melbourne Regional Landfill is an alternative to Dynon Road due to 
their relatively nearby locations and capacity to accept large volumes of 
putrescible waste. As such, the parties’ disposal facilities are likely to overlap in 
the supply of disposal services for commercial and industrial waste located in 
central and west metropolitan Melbourne. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that 
the geographic dimension of the market is likely to be limited to the central and 
west region of metropolitan Melbourne.  
62. 
The ACCC is continuing to consider the extent to which other putrescible waste 
facilities compete with Dynon Road and Cleanaway’s disposal facilities in these 
areas. The ACCC is also continuing to consider the degree to which putrescible 
disposal facilities in the north, east and south-east of Melbourne are substitutes 
for putrescible disposal facilities in the central and west regions of Melbourne 
for commercial and industrial waste. 
Putrescible waste disposal for municipal waste 
Product dimension 
63. 
As described above, the ACCC considers that putrescible waste disposal is in a 
separate market to non-putrescible waste disposal. The ACCC also considers 
that putrescible waste disposal for municipal waste is in a separate market to 
putrescible waste disposal for commercial and industrial waste. 
Functional dimension 
64. 
The ACCC currently considers that there is a single relevant market that includes 
both transfer stations and landfills. 
65. 
While transfer stations and landfills may have a relationship across the supply 
chain, and relative prices can differ to reflect differences in services, the ACCC 
understands that municipal collections companies can drop waste off at transfer 
stations or landfills. The ACCC also understands that councils have typically 
tendered for disposal services (landfill and transfer stations) through the same 
tender process. 


Page 15 of 26 
66. 
As such, when councils are considering their disposal arrangements, they may 
consider whether to send putrescible waste directly to a landfill, or to a transfer 
station who would send it on to a landfill (or more than one landfill). In this way, 
using a transfer station may be considered as part of an alternative option to 
sending waste directly to a landfill. 
Geographic dimension 
67. 
As described above, the ACCC considers that the distance between waste 
collection sites and disposal facilities is an important determinant of 
competition between disposal facilities, including competition between transfer 
stations and landfills. 
68. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the geographic dimension of the market is 
likely to be limited to councils in the vicinity of Melbourne’s central business 
district. This is because the ACCC considers that the geographic proximity of 
these councils to Dynon Road (see Figure 1) means that they may be able to 
reduce their overall waste management costs by using the Dynon Road transfer 
station. As such, these councils may consider sending waste to landfill via the 
Dynon Road transfer station as an alternative to sending waste directly to a 
landfill. Councils further away from Dynon Road or to the east of Melbourne 
would be less likely to use Dynon Road as there are more convenient options.  
 
Questions for market participants 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary views about 
relevant markets. In particular, collection providers and councils may wish to comment 
on: 
• 
To what extent do transfer stations compete with landfills, including with 
reference to capacity, gate fees and location? If possible, indicate if you have 
recently switched between a transfer station and a landfill for putrescible waste 
disposal services. 
• 
How far do you travel to access putrescible waste disposal facilities in 
Melbourne from collection routes? If possible, provide approximate 
transportation costs for the collections vehicle/s in your fleet, and explain how 
these impact your decision on how far your vehicles travel. 
• 
To what extent do differences in gate fees between facilities (including between 
transfer stations and landfills) affect your choice of disposal facility?  
• 
Would you choose a disposal facility further away if its gate fees were materially 
lower than a proximate disposal facility? If so, how much lower would the gate 
fees need to be to justify additional transportation costs? 
• 
How do toll costs (or other road characteristics) impact your choice of disposal 
facility? 
In your response, please indicate if the comments are in relation to commercial and 
industrial waste or in relation to municipal waste. 


Page 16 of 26 
Commercial and industrial waste collection for putrescible waste 
Product dimension 
69. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that commercial and industrial waste collection 
services are in a separate market from municipal waste collection services due 
to the following: 
• Commercial and industrial customers are unlikely to be able to use household 
kerbside bins to dispose of their waste. Similarly, households are unlikely to 
be able to use commercial and industrial businesses’ bins to dispose of their 
waste.  
• The ACCC understands that the truck fleets used to service a municipal 
contract are exclusively used for that purpose and cannot be used to service 
commercial and industrial customers. 
• The ACCC understands that the process for obtaining collections contracts 
differs materially. Commercial and industrial customers use informal 
procurement processes, and tend to have short term contracts or informal 
arrangements with collections suppliers. Whereas municipal collections 
contracts are awarded through competitive tender processes with detailed 
requirements and tend to be long term (often 7 years with the possibility of 
extension).  
Geographic dimension 
70. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the geographic dimension of the commercial 
and industrial collections market is likely to be in Melbourne, where the parties’ 
operations currently overlap. 
Municipal waste collection for putrescible waste 
Product dimension 
71. 
As described above, the ACCC’s view is that there is a separate market for the 
supply of municipal waste collection.  
Geographic dimension 
72. 
The ACCC is considering whether the proposed acquisition would impact 
Cleanaway’s ability and incentive to foreclose rival providers of municipal 
collections services through raising these rivals’ costs at Dynon Road, or through 
bundling (or otherwise connecting) the Dynon Road services with municipal 
collections services and possibly Melbourne Regional Landfill’s services. 
73. 
In particular, the ACCC is considering how this may impact councils within the 
vicinity of the Melbourne’s central business district who could use the Dynon 
Road transfer station to lower the overall waste management costs associated 
with their putrescible waste. 


Page 17 of 26 
74. 
As such, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the geographic dimension of the 
market is likely to be limited to the councils in the vicinity of Melbourne’s central 
business district. 
Issue of concern: Reduction in competition in the supply of 
putrescible waste disposal services for commercial and 
industrial waste 
75. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is likely to have the 
effect of substantially lessening competition in the supply of putrescible waste 
disposal services in Melbourne for commercial and industrial waste, particularly 
in the central and west regions of metropolitan Melbourne.  
76. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition would remove the 
competitive tension between Dynon Road and nearby putrescible waste disposal 
facilities operated by Cleanaway, including Melbourne Regional Landfill, likely 
leading to higher prices and/or reduced service quality for waste disposal 
services at these facilities. 
Removal of competitive tension between Dynon Road and 
Cleanaway’s Melbourne Regional Landfill for commercial and 
industrial waste 
77. 
The ACCC understands that Dynon Road is a key putrescible waste disposal 
facility in Melbourne, particularly for customers that have commercial waste 
collection operations in and around Melbourne’s central business district. The 
ACCC understands that it is open 24 hours 7 days a week and has the capacity 
to accept large commercial volumes of putrescible waste. 
78. 
Cleanaway’s Melbourne Regional Landfill, located approximately a 35-minute 
drive from Dynon Road, is one of the closest putrescible waste disposal facilities 
to Dynon Road (as shown above in Figure 1). In addition to location, the ACCC 
understands that Melbourne Regional Landfill’s capacity to accept large 
commercial volumes of putrescible waste and 24 hour weekday opening hours 
are factors identifying Melbourne Regional Landfill as a key alternative to Dynon 
Road. 
79. 
The ACCC is concerned that if the proposed acquisition proceeds, the 
competitive tension that currently exists between Dynon Road and Cleanaway’s 
disposal facilities, in particular Melbourne Regional Landfill, would be lost. 
80. 
The ACCC will continue to consider the degree to which Cleanaway’s other 
disposal facilities compete with Dynon Road. Other putrescible waste disposal 
facilities in Melbourne owned and/or operated by Cleanaway include Brooklyn, 
Laverton, Lysterfield and the South East Melbourne Transfer Station (SEMTS). 
81. 
While Cleanaway’s putrescible waste disposal facility located at Brooklyn is 
approximately 15 kilometres from the Melbourne central business district, and 
nearby to Melbourne Regional Landfill and Dynon Road, the ACCC understands 


Page 18 of 26 
that it is not currently a viable alternative to these two facilities as it has a limited 
ability to accept large-scale commercial volumes of putrescible waste and does 
not operate overnight. 
Alternative putrescible waste disposal facilities are unlikely to 
impose a sufficient constraint 
82. 
The ACCC is concerned that other putrescible waste disposal facilities in 
Melbourne are unlikely to impose a sufficient constraint on Cleanaway post-
acquisition.  
83. 
The ACCC understands that there are a small number of alternative disposal 
facilities capable of handling the large volume of putrescible waste typically 
tipped by commercial and industrial and municipal collections companies in 
greater Melbourne. These are primarily the landfills located at Bulla (operated by 
Hi-Quality), Werribee (operated by Wyndham City Council), Wollert (operated by 
Hanson) and Hallam Road (operated by Veolia). While these alternative landfills 
may have comparable gate fees, they do not appear to be a viable option for 
waste that is collected from sites close to Dynon Road and Melbourne Regional 
Landfill.  
84. 
These alternative landfills are located on the outskirts of Melbourne as shown 
above in Figure 1, and delivering waste from collection routes that are close to 
Dynon Road and Melbourne Regional Landfill to these alternative landfills would 
incur relatively higher transportation costs impacting fuel and staff costs. 
Increasing the time a collections company’s fleet spends transporting waste 
may also reduce the time it can be profitably deployed in waste collection. 
85. 
The ACCC understand that some other disposal facilities have significantly 
higher gate fees relative to Dynon Road and Cleanaway’s Melbourne Regional 
Landfill. There are also limited alternative facilities that offer comparable 
opening hours to Dynon Road and Cleanaway’s Melbourne Regional Landfill. 
86. 
The ACCC also understands that there are a number of putrescible waste 
disposal facilities around Melbourne that cater to residents disposing of 
household waste (as distinct from municipal collections services). These council 
owned transfer stations are unable to accept putrescible waste from commercial 
and industrial waste collectors due to insufficient throughput capacity and 
inadequate infrastructure to accommodate the collection trucks used by 
commercial and industrial waste collectors. Accordingly, we do not consider 
these council owned transfer stations are likely to impose a strong competitive 
constraint on Cleanaway post-acquisition. 


Page 19 of 26 
High barriers to entry and expansion for disposal facilities in the 
affected area 
87. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that there are high barriers to entry and 
expansion for waste disposal facilities in the affected area, limiting the degree to 
which new entry and expansion could constrain Cleanaway post-acquisition. The 
ACCC has considered new entry and expansion in the context of establishing a 
new putrescible waste disposal facility including waste to energy facilities, as 
well as non-putrescible facilities being converted to also accept putrescible 
waste. 
88. 
The ACCC understands that the key barriers to entry and expansion include: 
• the availability and cost of suitable land in the central and west region of 
Melbourne 
• regulatory approvals, including Planning Permits, Development Licences and 
putrescible waste licences, and the time involved in seeking and obtaining 
these approvals 
• the time and cost involved in developing facilities through to operation, 
particularly waste to energy facilities.  
89. 
These barriers impact the likely profitability of new entry or expansion, as well as 
the timeliness and magnitude of new entry or expansion in the affected area. 
90. 
Waste to energy facilities have the potential to be new entrant suppliers of 
putrescible waste disposal services. As identified above, the ACCC is aware of 
three currently approved waste to energy facilities in Melbourne. However, only 
one of the three approved facilities, Recovered Energy Laverton,13 will be located 
in the west region of Melbourne, approximately 19km driving distance from 
Melbourne’s central business district. The facility is due to become operational 
by FY2025/26 and the ACCC understands that Recovered Energy Laverton has 
already entered into contracts with three Melbourne councils.14 The ACCC is 
concerned that the facility may not have sufficient capacity to replace the 
competition lost by the acquisition of Citywide Waste. 
91. 
The ACCC considers it unlikely that other waste to energy facilities will be 
approved, constructed and commence operation in a timely way to constrain 
Cleanaway post-acquisition. The ACCC understands that there are long lead 
times involved in seeking regulatory approvals, and there is a need to secure 
large volumes of putrescible waste (particularly municipal disposal contracts) 
 
 
13 A partnership between Recovered Energy Australia and Solo Resources, to be constructed at 28 Alex 
Fraser Drive, Laverton North 
14 
https://www.recoveredenergy.com.au/project-details, 
https://www.recoveredenergy.com.au/news, 
https://www.monash.vic.gov.au/About-Us/News/Recovering-energy-from-landfill-waste 


Page 20 of 26 
before commencing construction. For instance, Recovered Energy Laverton 
received planning and development approvals in 2019 and 2020.15 
92. 
The ACCC understands that the process of converting an inert waste transfer 
station into a facility capable of accepting large-scale commercial volumes of 
putrescible waste is lengthy and challenging. In addition to having to obtain the 
relevant licence to be able to accept putrescible waste, obtaining the necessary 
regulatory approvals may take several years, particularly due to the need for 
community consultation. Additionally, putrescible waste disposal facilities 
typically require larger sites due to the Victorian Environmental Protection 
Agency’s Separation Distance Guidelines,16 and many existing sites at which 
inert waste disposal facilities are located lack the land needed for expansion. 
93. 
Accordingly, the ACCC considers that it is unlikely that new entrants, or existing 
suppliers, could impose a sufficient competitive constraint on Cleanaway post-
acquisition. 
ACCC’s preliminary views on the impact on competition in the 
supply of putrescible waste disposal services for commercial and 
industrial waste  
94. 
In summary, the ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in the supply of putrescible waste disposal 
services for commercial and industrial waste, particularly in the central and west 
regions of metropolitan Melbourne. 
Questions for market participants 
For putrescible commercial and industrial waste, the ACCC invites comments from 
market participants on:  
• 
The extent to which Dynon Road competes with Cleanaway’s disposal facilities, 
particularly Cleanaway’s Melbourne Regional Landfill. 
• 
Whether and to what extent customers switch between the Dynon Road Facility 
and Cleanaway’s disposal facilities in response to a price increase and/or a 
reduction in service quality (e.g. waiting times) at the Dynon Road Facility. 
• 
The other third-party putrescible disposal facilities in Melbourne that customers 
consider to be suitable alternatives to the Dynon Road Facility. 
• 
The key factors that determine customers choice of disposal facility. 
• 
The extent to which transportation costs and travel time impact choice of 
disposal facility, including with reference to average transportation costs per 
kilometre and any other costs such as potential lost productivity. 
• 
The extent to which Cleanaway’s Brooklyn facility is a suitable alternative to 
Dynon Road for putrescible waste disposal customers including, if considered 
relevant, with reference to its opening hours, any operational limitations such as 
 
 
15 https://www.recoveredenergy.com.au/news 
16 https://www.epa.vic.gov.au/about-epa/publications/separation-distance-and-landfill-buffer-guidelines  


Page 21 of 26 
limitations on its ability to accept large-scale commercial volumes of putrescible 
waste, and pricing offered.  
• 
The process involved in establishing a new putrescible waste disposal facility, 
modifying an existing putrescible waste disposal facility to accept greater 
volumes of waste, or converting a non-putrescible facility into one that accepts 
putrescible waste, including the costs and required regulatory approvals. 
• 
The competitive impact on competition in the supply of putrescible waste 
disposal services for commercial and industrial waste in the central and west 
regions of metropolitan Melbourne whether Cleanaway or another party (other 
than Citywide) operates the Dynon Road Facility,  
• 
If the proposed acquisition proceeds, what impact would the proposed 
redevelopment of the Dynon Road Facility have on competition in waste disposal 
or collection markets? If the proposed acquisition did not proceed, what impact 
would the present state of the Dynon Road Facility have on competition in waste 
disposal or collection markets? 
Issue that may raise concern: Reduction in competition in the 
supply of putrescible waste disposal services for municipal 
waste 
95. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition may have the effect of 
substantially lessening competition in the supply of putrescible waste disposal 
services for councils in the vicinity of Melbourne's central business district by 
removing competitive tension between Dynon Road and Cleanaway’s Melbourne 
Regional Landfill. 
96. 
The ACCC understands that many councils in Melbourne have obtained 
putrescible waste disposal services, including both landfill and transfer station 
services, through a joint tender process. The ACCC considers that, in future, it is 
possible for councils to continue to procure these services through tender 
processes. Further, as discussed above, the ACCC understands that municipal 
collections companies can deliver waste to either transfer stations or landfills. 
97. 
As such, when councils are considering their disposal arrangements through 
future tender processes, they may consider whether to send their collections 
vehicles directly to a landfill, or to a transfer station (which would then send the 
waste on to a landfill). Transfer stations may also be able to reduce councils’ 
overall waste management costs for sending waste to relatively distant landfills. 
In this way, using a transfer station may be considered as part of an alternative 
option (or options) to sending waste directly to landfill. 
98. 
The ACCC is concerned that proposed acquisition may impact councils within 
the vicinity of Melbourne’s central business district who currently, or could in the 
future, use the Dynon Road transfer station to lower the overall waste 
management costs associated with their putrescible waste. This includes where 
the use of Dynon Road could reduce the council’s overall waste management 
costs as an alternative to sending waste directly to either Melbourne Regional 
Landfill, or other landfills. As such, the ACCC is concerned the acquisition may 


Page 22 of 26 
reduce the benefits from any competitive tension between Melbourne Regional 
Landfill and Dynon Road in future tender processes. 
Questions for market participants 
For putrescible municipal waste, the ACCC invites comments from market participants 
on:  
• 
The extent to which Dynon Road competes with Cleanaway’s disposal facilities, 
particularly Cleanaway’s Melbourne Regional Landfill. 
• 
The alternative disposal options that councils close to Melbourne’s central 
business district have considered in recent procurement processes, and whether 
these options have included the Dynon Road transfer station. 
• 
The other third-party putrescible disposal facilities in Melbourne that customers 
consider to be suitable alternatives to the Dynon Road Facility. 
• 
The key factors that determine customers choice of disposal facility. 
• 
The extent to which transportation costs and travel time impact choice of 
disposal facility, including with reference to average transportation costs per 
kilometre and any other costs such as potential lost productivity. 
• 
The process involved in establishing a new putrescible waste disposal facility, 
modifying an existing putrescible waste disposal facility to accept greater 
volumes of waste, or converting a non-putrescible facility into one that accepts 
putrescible waste, including the costs and required regulatory approvals. 
• 
The impact on competition in the supply of putrescible waste disposal services 
for municipal waste for councils in the vicinity of Melbourne’s central business 
district whether Cleanaway or another party operates the Dynon Road Facility. 
• 
If the proposed acquisition proceeds, what impact would the proposed 
redevelopment of the Dynon Road Facility have on competition in waste disposal 
or collection markets? If the proposed acquisition did not proceed, what impact 
would the present state of the Dynon Road Facility have on competition in waste 
disposal or collection markets? 
Issue that may raise concerns: Foreclosure of rival collections 
service providers 
99. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition may increase Cleanaway’s 
ability and incentive to foreclose rival commercial and industrial waste collectors 
of putrescible waste from putrescible waste disposal services by raising rivals’ 
costs. This may reduce these rivals’ ability to compete for, and retain, collections 
customers, subsequently leading to higher prices and/or reduce service levels 
for rival providers of commercial and industrial waste collection services. The 
ACCC is considering the extent to which Cleanaway would engage in such 
foreclosure by increasing prices and/or reducing service levels at Dynon Road 
and Melbourne Regional Landfill. 
100. The ACCC is also considering whether the acquisition could increase 
Cleanaway’s ability and incentive to foreclose rival providers of municipal 
collections services for putrescible waste, impacting the ability of rivals to 


Page 23 of 26 
compete for municipal collections contracts in the vicinity of Melbourne’s central 
business district. As discussed below, the ACCC is considering whether this 
could occur through raising these rivals’ costs or through bundling (or otherwise 
connecting) disposal and collections services. 
Foreclosure of rival commercial and industrial collectors of 
putrescible waste 
101. As discussed above, the ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition would 
remove the competitive tension between Dynon Road and Cleanaway’s nearby 
putrescible waste disposal facilities, in particular Cleanaway’s Melbourne 
Regional Landfill. The ACCC is concerned that there are limited alternatives to 
these disposal facilities in the central and west regions of metropolitan 
Melbourne, and that barriers to entry and expansion are high, resulting in 
Cleanaway holding substantial market power in putrescible waste disposal in 
this area post-acquisition.  
102. While the ACCC is concerned, at a general level, that this loss of competition is 
likely to lead to higher prices and/or lower service levels for putrescible waste 
disposal services, the ACCC is also considering Cleanaway’s incentive post-
acquisition to foreclose downstream rival suppliers of commercial and industrial 
waste collection services for putrescible waste. 
103. Suppliers of commercial and industrial waste collection services incorporate 
disposal services in their offerings to customers. These suppliers typically have 
direct disposal arrangements with multiple disposal facilities and will decide 
which disposal facilities they use in order to minimise their transportation costs 
and maximise their fleet utilisation rates. As such, disposal services are as an 
input to commercial and industrial collection services.  
104. Rival suppliers of commercial and industrial waste collection services who wish 
to service customers located in the central and west regions of metropolitan 
Melbourne are likely to require access to nearby waste disposal facilities at 
competitive rates, and competitive service levels, to compete effectively in these 
regions. If rival collectors faced relatively higher prices or lower service levels to 
Cleanaway at Dynon Road and Melbourne Regional Landfill, these rivals would 
either have to travel further to use alternative disposal facilities (increasing their 
transport costs) or incur higher costs to use these facilities than Cleanaway. 
These higher costs would impact their ability to compete for, or retain, 
commercial and industrial customers in competition with Cleanaway.  
105. As such, the ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition may substantially 
lessen competition in the supply of commercial and industrial waste collection 
services for putrescible waste given Cleanaway’s increased ability and incentive 
to raise prices or reduce service quality for disposal services at Dynon Road and 
Melbourne Regional Landfill for rival suppliers of commercial and industrial 
collections services.  
106. As discussed above, the ACCC is continuing to consider the extent to which 
Cleanaway’s other putrescible disposal facilities compete with Dynon Road. The 
ACCC is also continuing to consider the extent to which alternative third party 
putrescible disposal facilities compete with Dynon Road and Cleanaway’s 


Page 24 of 26 
putrescible disposal facilities, particularly in the central and west regions of 
metropolitan Melbourne. 
107. The ACCC is also considering the extent to which any such foreclosure strategy 
for these disposal services may impact on competition for national or multi-
regional commercial and industrial collections contracts, noting that collections 
in Melbourne could be a material proportion of some multi-regional or national 
contracts. 
Potential foreclosure of rival municipal collectors of putrescible 
waste 
108. As indicated above, the ACCC is considering the impact of the proposed 
acquisition on putrescible waste disposal services for municipal waste for 
councils in the vicinity of Melbourne’s central business district. 
109. The ACCC is also considering whether the acquisition would increase 
Cleanaway’s ability and incentive to foreclose rival suppliers of municipal 
collections services for putrescible waste, and in doing so impact these rivals’ 
ability to compete for municipal collections services for the councils located in 
the vicinity of the Melbourne central business district. 
110. The ACCC is considering whether this could occur through raising collection 
rivals’ costs through higher prices or lower quality services at Dynon Road.  
111. The ACCC is also considering whether this could occur through bundling (or 
otherwise connecting): 
• Dynon Road’s services with municipal collections services, or 
• Melbourne Regional Landfill’s services, Dynon Road’s services and municipal 
collection services. 
112. The ACCC considers that the form and likelihood of foreclosure depends in part 
on how landfill, transfer station and collections services are acquired, and what 
type of service is part of each relevant contract or arrangement. The ACCC 
understands that currently: 
• councils typically tender for collections services separately to putrescible 
waste disposal services (where disposal services includes both landfill and 
transfer station services) 
• councils typically hold contracts for the supply of the putrescible disposal 
services directly with the suppliers, and payment for these services is made 
directly from the council to the supplier 
• councils typically specify the disposal facility used for putrescible waste, and 
the collector does not generally have discretion as to which facility they drop 
the waste off at. 
113. The ACCC is still considering these matters, including whether the way that 
these services are currently acquired could change in future, and the risk that the 


Page 25 of 26 
foreclosure strategies identified above could be adopted by Cleanaway post-
acquisition. 
Questions for market participants 
In addition to the questions identified above regarding the removal of Dynon Road as a 
competitor to Cleanaway’s putrescible waste disposal facilities, the ACCC invites 
comments from market participants on:  
• 
The degree to which Cleanaway may foreclose rival commercial and industrial 
collectors through increased prices or lower quality services at Dynon Road or 
Melbourne Regional Landfill, and how this could impact prices and service levels 
offered to collections customers. 
• 
The extent to which rival municipal collectors could be foreclosed by operators 
of waste disposal facilities in the future, taking into account councils' current 
approach to waste tenders and contracting and any future changes to this 
approach.  
• 
Whether an operator of a transfer station or landfill could provide its own 
collections vehicles with higher quality service levels compared to their 
competitors’ collections vehicles. 
• 
Whether a vertically integrated supplier of disposal services and collection 
services would have an incentive to foreclose rival collection providers. If 
possible, also provide information on the profit margins for putrescible waste 
disposal relative to the profit margins for commercial and industrial waste 
collection services. 
• 
Whether there would be a difference in competitive outcomes in the supply of 
commercial and industrial collection services where the Dynon Road Facility is 
operated by Citywide, Cleanaway or another party. 
• 
Council requirements for municipal collections contracts, and the weighting of 
those requirements in consideration of tender processes. 
• 
The extent to which Cleanaway and Citywide Waste have competed for 
municipal collections contracts for Melbourne councils. 
• 
The alternative providers of municipal collections services in Melbourne and 
their ability to meet council requirements for municipal collections contracts. 
Issue unlikely to raise concerns: foreclosure of rival waste to 
energy facilities 
114. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to have 
the effect of substantially lessening competition in the supply of waste to energy 
services in Melbourne.  
115. The ACCC considered whether the proposed acquisition would have the effect of 
foreclosing potential rival waste to energy facilities from an important feedstock 
of waste coming from the Dynon Road Facility.  


Page 26 of 26 
116. As identified above, the ACCC understands that there are high capital costs 
involved in building waste to energy facilities and developers of waste to energy 
facilities need to make arrangements to secure future waste feedstocks for their 
facilities in order to obtain funding.  
117. Although Dynon Road may be a source of waste for future waste to energy 
facilities due to its putrescible waste capacity, the ACCC understands that there 
are multiple alternative sources of waste that rival developers of waste to energy 
facilities could seek to use. In particular, municipal disposal contracts can also 
provide the security of supply to waste to energy facilities. Recovered Energy 
Laverton has entered into disposal contracts with three municipal councils, and 
9 councils in the south east of Melbourne have entered into contracts with the 
Maryvale energy from waste facility in the Latrobe Valley.17  
118. Accordingly, the ACCC does not consider that the acquisition of Dynon Road will 
materially impact rival waste to energy facilities’ ability to secure waste 
feedstocks. 
Questions for market participants 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants in relation to: 
• 
The process involved in developing waste to energy facilities, including the cost, 
regulatory approvals and the importance of securing waste feedstocks. 
• 
The extent to which putrescible transfer stations can provide security of 
feedstocks relative to council disposal contracts.  
• 
The extent to which different sources of waste feedstocks can act as a secure 
source of supply of feedstock for developers of energy from waste facilities, 
such as municipal kerbside waste, commercial and industrial waste and waste 
from transfer stations. 
ACCC's future steps 
119. As noted above, the ACCC invites submissions from market participants on each 
of the issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that 
may be relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. Submissions should 
be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au by no later than 28 November 2024. 
120. The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
121. The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 13 February 2025. 
However the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment explaining the 
ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's public announcement. 
 
 
17 https://www.casey.vic.gov.au/news/south-east-metropolitan-advanced-waste-processing-semawp-
pty-ltd-enters-waste-supply-agreement  
