 
 
 
 
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
tel: (02) 6243 1368 
mergers@accc.gov.au
www.accc.gov.au
Our ref: 
IM-72642 
 
12 August 2024 
 
 
Dear Interested Party 
Re: ACCC seeking your views: Cleanaway’s proposed acquisition of Citywide Waste 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
the proposed acquisition of Citywide Service Solutions Pty Ltd’s waste and recycling 
business (Citywide Waste) by Cleanaway Waste Management Ltd (Cleanaway) (the 
Proposed Acquisition). 
Cleanaway is a provider of recycling, waste management and industrial services in 
Australia. Citywide Waste is a provider of waste management services in Melbourne. 
Further details are provided at Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact that the Proposed Acquisition would 
have on competition in Melbourne.  
In particular, we are seeking your views on whether the Proposed Acquisition would be 
likely to: 
• 
remove Citywide Waste’s Dynon Road facility as a competing transfer station to 
Cleanaway in Melbourne and reduce options for waste disposal customers 
• 
increase Cleanaway’s degree of vertical integration and impact competition in waste 
collection and/or disposal in Melbourne, and  
• 
reduce competition for waste management services to municipal and/or commercial 
and industrial customers in Melbourne.  
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the Proposed Acquisition is in section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
Please provide your response by 26 August 2024 via email with the title: Submission re: 
Cleanaway / Citywide Waste. If you require more time to respond, please let us know. 


 
2 
 
If you would like to arrange a time to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any 
questions about this letter, please contact mergers@accc.gov.au. 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public Mergers 
Register at ACCC mergers register. 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC treats sensitive information it receives during a merger review as confidential, 
and will not publish your submission. We will not disclose submissions to third parties 
(except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of 
information legislation or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the 
Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, we will notify you in advance where possible so that you have an opportunity 
to be heard. Therefore please clearly indicate if any information you provide is confidential. 
Our Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on 
confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
 
Morag Bond 
General Manager 
Merger Investigations  
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
3 
 
Attachment A – Overview of the merger parties and the Proposed 
Acquisition 
Cleanaway 
Cleanaway is an ASX-listed company (ASX:CWY) that provides recycling, waste 
management and industrial services in Australia. This includes the supply of waste 
management services to municipal councils, and commercial and industrial 
customers. Cleanaway owns and/or operates a number of waste disposal and 
processing facilities in Melbourne:  
• 
Transfer stations: Altona, Brooklyn, Clayton South, Hallam, Lysterfield and South 
East Melbourne 
• 
Material recovery facilities: Coolaroo, Laverton 
• 
Organics processing facility: South East Organics Facility at Dandenong South 
• 
Landfill: Melbourne Regional Landfill at Ravenhall. 
Citywide Waste 
Citywide Waste provides waste management services in Melbourne. It is currently 
fully owned by the Melbourne City Council and provides waste management services 
to municipal councils, and commercial and industrial customers.  
Citywide Waste operates a transfer station located at 391-395 Dynon Road in West 
Melbourne which processes and transfers municipal and commercial and industrial 
waste, including putrescible and inert, from Citywide Waste and other waste 
management providers.  
Areas of overlap 
The parties overlap in Melbourne in the supply of: 
• 
waste disposal 
• 
waste management services to municipal customers, and 
• 
waste collections to commercial and industrial customers 
The Proposed Acquisition 
Cleanaway proposes to acquire Citywide Waste, including its existing contracts and 
employees, and a lease to operate the Dynon Road facility. 
  
 
 


 
4 
 
Attachment B – List of questions 
1. Please provide a brief description of your business or organisation.  
2. Outline the reasons for your interest in the Proposed Acquisition, including any 
commercial relationship/s with Cleanaway and/or Citywide Waste. If applicable, 
please identify the service(s) that you supply to, acquire from, or compete with 
Cleanaway and/or Citywide Waste to provide. 
Disposal facilities 
3. Please describe how closely Citywide Waste’s Dynon Road facility and 
Cleanaway’s existing transfer stations and landfill facilities in Melbourne 
compete. 
4. Please identify and describe the alternative waste disposal facilities in 
Melbourne, including with reference to factors such as the types of waste 
accepted, location, cost, capacity and how closely they compete with Citywide 
Waste’s Dynon Road facility.  
5. If you are a customer of Citywide Waste’s Dynon Road facility, outline the factors 
including cost, distance and transportation time, involved in using alternative 
transfer stations and/or landfills in Melbourne. 
6. Please outline the process, cost and time involved in establishing a new waste 
disposal facility (e.g. transfer station, landfill, energy from waste facility or other 
waste disposal alternative) in Melbourne, including the regulatory requirements 
such as licences and environmental approvals. 
7. Please identify whether there have been any new waste disposal facilities 
established in Melbourne recently, and any new proposed waste disposal 
facilities.  
8. To what extent could Cleanaway’s ownership of the Dynon Road facility impact 
pricing and/or service quality for competing waste collection businesses? 
Municipal contracts 
Questions for customers 
9. Please outline the extent to which Citywide Waste competes with Cleanaway in 
tenders for waste management services to municipal councils in Melbourne. 
10. Please identify the main competitors to Cleanaway and/or Citywide Waste in 
tenders for waste management services to municipal councils in Melbourne. 
11. Please outline the key factors that are considered by municipal councils when 
awarding waste management contracts. 
12. Please identify whether supplying your own waste management services is an 
option for your council. Why/why not? 


 
5 
 
Questions for competitors 
13. Please identify the main competitors to Cleanaway and/or Citywide Waste in 
tenders for waste management services to municipal councils in Melbourne. 
14. Please outline the process involved in tendering for municipal contracts, 
including the regulatory requirements such as licences, importance of scale and 
any upfront investment required to win contracts. 
15. Please identify any barriers to entering or expanding as a supplier of waste 
management services to municipal councils in Melbourne. 
16. Please describe the significance of ownership and/or access to disposal 
facilities when competing for municipal contracts. 
Commercial and industrial collections 
Questions for customers 
17. Please outline the extent to which Citywide Waste competes with Cleanaway in 
the supply of waste collection services to commercial and industrial customers in 
Melbourne. 
18. Please identify the key suppliers that compete with Cleanaway and/or Citywide 
Waste in the supply of waste collection services to commercial and industrial 
customers in Melbourne. 
19. Please identify the extent to which customers are willing and able to switch 
between waste collection services in response to a price increase and/or 
decrease in service levels.  
Questions for competitors 
20. Please indicate the types of waste collection vehicles in your fleet and the 
approximate number of each type of vehicle. 
21. Please outline the process, cost and time involved in establishing a new 
commercial and industrial collections business, or expansion of an existing 
collections business in Melbourne, including the regulatory requirements such as 
licences and the importance of scale. 
22. Please describe the significance of ownership and/or access to disposal 
facilities when competing for commercial and industrial customers. 
Additional information 
23. Please provide any additional information or comments that you consider relevant to 
the ACCC’s consideration of the Proposed Acquisition. 
