 
 
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
tel: (02) 6243 1368 
mergers@accc.gov.au
www.accc.gov.au
 
 
 
 
 
 
Our ref: IM-71211 
 
Contact officer: Sam Campbell /  Andrew Eliades 
Contact phone: 03 9290 1870 / 03 9290 1444 
 
16 June 2021 
Dear Interested Party 
Request for submissions: Cleanaway’s proposed acquisition of certain Suez 
post-collection waste assets in Sydney 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
the proposed acquisition of certain Suez Recycling & Recovery Pty Ltd (Suez) post-
collection assets in Sydney by Cleanaway Waste Management Ltd (Cleanaway) (the 
proposed acquisition). 
Cleanaway and Suez both supply waste processing and disposal services in Australia. 
Further details regarding the acquisition can be found at Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact on competition, particularly in Sydney. 
In particular, we are seeking your views on:  
 
how closely Cleanaway and Suez compete with each other in supplying various 
waste processing and disposal services 
 
whether the price of waste processing and disposal services would be likely to 
increase, or service levels decrease, as a result of the proposed acquisition, and  
 
whether Cleanaway and Suez’s customers will have alternative suppliers (actual 
and/or potential) of waste processing and disposal services after the proposed 
acquisition. 
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is set out in 
section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions 
that are likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
Please provide your response by no later than 5pm on Friday 2 July 2021 via email to 
mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: Submission re: Cleanaway proposed acquisition of 
Suez’s post-collection waste assets in Sydney - attention Sam Campbell/Andrew Eliades. If 
you would like to arrange a time to discuss the matter with ACCC staff, or have any 


questions, please contact Sam on 03 9290 1870 or Andrew on 03 9290 1444.  
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s mergers 
register. 
 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. It will not 
disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by 
law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or during court proceedings) or 
in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Where the 
ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, the ACCC will notify you in advance 
where possible so that you may have an opportunity to be heard. Therefore, if the 
information provided to the ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate as such. The 
ACCC’s Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on 
confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
Sharon Deano 
A/g General Manager  
Merger Investigations  
 
 
 
 


Attachment A 
Cleanaway 
Cleanaway (ASX: CWY) is a publicly listed company and is headquartered in 
Melbourne, Victoria. Cleanaway supplies recycling, waste management and 
industrial services.  
Suez 
In Australia, Suez operates a waste management business that supplies waste 
collection services and owns and operates transfer stations, landfills and alternative 
waste treatment (AWT) facilities.  
Suez is a part of the SUEZ Group (S.A.S), a listed holding company headquartered 
in France with global operations. 
The proposed acquisition 
Cleanaway proposes to acquire multiple waste processing and disposal facilities in 
Sydney from Suez, including contracts and other assets related to the facilities. 
Cleanaway and Suez both currently supply, or in the near future may supply, the 
following waste disposal services listed in the table below. Cleanaway seeks to 
acquire all of the Suez assets listed below.  
 
Table 1: Cleanaway and Suez’s  waste disposal and processing services in Sydney 
 
Cleanaway 
Suez Post-Collection Assets  
Non-Putrescible waste 
landfill 
 Erskine Park 
 Kemps Creek 
Putrescible waste landfill 
 None 
 Lucas Heights  
Organics processing 
facilities 
 50% interest in the EarthPower 
joint venture with Veolia 
 Lucas Heights  
AWT facilities 
 None 
 Kemps Creek  
 Land at Eastern Creek (currently 
leased to Global Renewables 
Limited (GRL) who owns and 
operates an AWT facility) 
Transfer stations 
 Erskine Park  
 Belrose  
 Rockdale 
 Artarmon  
 Auburn  
 Ryde  
Energy from waste (EfW) 
facilities 
 No current facilities but may enter in future 
Suez also owns transfer stations at Seven Hills, Wetherill Park and Spring Farm, 
organics processing facilities at Eastern Creek and Spring Farm, and a site at 
Chullora which is currently closed for redevelopment.  These assets will not be 
acquired by Cleanaway. 
 


Attachment B 
1. Please provide a brief description of your business or organisation.  
2. Please outline the reasons for your interest in the proposed acquisition, including 
any commercial relationship/s with either of Cleanaway or Suez. 
Waste processing and disposal services 
Questions for customers 
3. Please identify and describe the location and types of waste processing and disposal 
services (for example putrescible or non-putrescible waste) you procure in the Sydney 
region, and identify your current provider/s.  
 
4. For each of the waste processing and disposal services that you procure, please list 
who you consider to be the key suppliers capable of servicing your organisation’s 
needs, including any differences with regard to pricing, service, quality, and 
geographical location. Please explain your answer. 
 
5. Please explain whether you procure different waste processing and disposal services 
(such as different types of waste) separately or together, and/or in multiple regions of 
Australia. Please explain whether you would be prepared to disaggregate contracts and 
why.  
 
6. Please describe your organisation’s key considerations in awarding contracts for 
different types of waste processing and disposal services.  
 
7. Do you have any competition concerns about the removal of Suez as a competitor in 
relation to providing certain waste processing and disposal services in the Sydney 
region?  
Questions for competitors 
8. Please identify and describe the location and types of waste processing and disposal 
services (for example putrescible or non-putrescible waste, landfill or transfer station) 
you supply in Sydney. Please identify any subcontracting arrangements with either of 
Cleanaway or Suez. 
 
9. Please identify who you consider to be your competitors in each of those 
services/geographical areas. 
 
10. Please explain whether you have any excess capacity to expand your operations or the 
ability to expand your capacity in response to increased demand in the Sydney region. 
 
11. Please describe the cost, necessary assets and infrastructure, and any regulatory 
requirements such as licences and environmental approvals for each of the waste 
processing and disposal services you provide.  
 
12. If you currently use any of Cleanaway or Suez’s waste processing facilities and/or 
landfills, please describe any alternative facilities available to you. 
 
13. Please describe any impact the proposed acquisition will have on the development of 
EfW facilities and competition to acquire putrescible waste.  


Other information 
14. Please provide any additional information or comments or identify any other 
issues that you consider relevant to the ACCC’s consideration of the proposed 
acquisition under section 50 of the Act.  
