 
 
 
Land of the Ngunnawal people
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
Tel 02 6243 1111 
Fax 02 6243 1199
www.accc.gov.au
Our ref: 
IM-72639 
12 July 2024 
 
Dear Interested Party, 
Re: ACCC seeking your views:  Optus and TPG’s proposed network and spectrum 
sharing in regional Australia  
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
the proposed network and spectrum sharing arrangement in regional Australia by Optus 
Mobile Pty Ltd (Optus) and TPG Telecom Limited (TPG) (the Parties). 
The Parties have entered into three interrelated agreements in respect of a Multi-Operator 
Core Network (MOCN) commercial arrangement: a MOCN Services Agreement, a Spectrum 
Authorisation Agreement and a Site Transfer Agreement (the Proposed Arrangement) (see 
Attachment A for further detail). The MOCN Services Agreement is for a period of 11 years, 
with a five-year option for TPG to extend the term. 
The legal test the ACCC applies when assessing mergers and acquisitions is in section 50 of 
the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth) (the CCA). Section 50 prohibits acquisitions 
that would have or are likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a 
market.  
The Parties have sought clearance by the ACCC of two acquisitions that are integral to the 
Proposed Arrangement: 
 
a) an authorisation by TPG for Optus to use certain TPG spectrum in defined regional 
areas in the 700 MHz, 1800 MHz, 3600 MHz and 3700 MHz bands, which is deemed 
by s 68A of the Radiocommunications Act 1992 (Cth) to be an acquisition for the 
purposes of s 50 of the CCA, and 
 
b) the transfer to Optus by TPG of certain leases and / or licences over, and equipment 
attached to, a number of regional mobile network sites, in the defined regional areas 
to be used for the MOCN 
(together, the Proposed Acquisitions). 
In considering the Proposed Arrangement, the ACCC will focus on the likely effects on 
competition of the Proposed Acquisitions but will have regard to all aspects of the Proposed 
Arrangement that affect that analysis. 


 
 
 
The ACCC is seeking submissions on: 
1. how mobile service providers currently compete in the mobile services market and 
other relevant markets, including whether they seek to differentiate on price, network 
coverage and quality, product and service offerings and inclusions, and whether the 
Proposed Arrangement will impact on this competition; 
2. the likely impact of the Proposed Arrangement on price competition for mobile 
services; 
3. the likely impact of the Proposed Arrangement on non-price aspects of competition, 
including network coverage, speed, network capacity, customer service, types of 
product and service offerings, bundling options, and contracts; 
4. how closely Optus and TPG currently compete, or would be likely to compete in the 
future, absent the Proposed Arrangement; 
5. the likelihood of other competitors expanding their network coverage and quality to 
compete with the services provided by Optus and TPG under the Proposed 
Arrangement; and  
6. any other competition issues relevant to the ACCC’s consideration of the Proposed 
Arrangement. 
How to share your views 
Please provide your response by 4pm, 26 July 2024 via email to mergers@accc.gov.au 
with the title: [your company name]: Submission re: Optus and TPG’s proposed network and 
spectrum sharing arrangement. If you require more time to respond, please let us know. 
If you would like to arrange a time to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any 
questions about this letter, please contact mergers@accc.gov.au. 
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public Mergers 
Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We will not 
disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by 
law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or during court proceedings) or in 
accordance with s155AAA of the CCA. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where possible so that you may have an 
opportunity to be heard. Therefore, if the information provided to the ACCC is of a 
confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our Informal Merger Review Process 
Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality 
 
Yours sincerely 
 
Aggie Marek 
Acting General Manager  
Merger Investigations 


 
 
 
Attachment A 
Optus  
Optus Mobile Pty Ltd (Optus) is Australia’s second-largest mobile network operator (MNO). 
Optus is not listed in Australia. Optus has the second-largest number of mobile subscribers, 
and its network covers 98.5% of the population. The Proposed Arrangement covers 81.6% 
to 98.4% of the population (the Coverage Area), where Optus operates around 2,500 
mobile base stations. 
TPG 
TPG Telecom Limited (TPG) is Australia's third-largest MNO by number of subscribers. TPG 
became the third-largest MNO following the merger of TPG and Vodafone Hutchison 
Australia in 2020. Several brands fall under TPG in Australia, which include Vodafone, TPG, 
iiNet, Lebara and felix. 
TPG operates more than 5,600 mobile base stations nationally, and currently operates 755 
mobile base stations in the Coverage Area. TPG’s current network covers around 95.4% of 
the population and is extended under a roaming agreement with Optus. 
The Proposed Arrangement 
On 29 April 2024, TPG and Optus announced a new agreement for a MOCN agreement, 
whereby Optus will provide TPG Telecom with access to its regional radio access network 
and they will share certain spectrum in regional Australia. Under the agreements, which are 
further described below, Optus and TPG will operate their own core networks and will also 
continue to operate their own 4G and 5G Radio Access Networks (RANs) in metropolitan 
areas: 
MOCN Services Agreement 
• 
Pursuant to the MOCN Services Agreement, Optus will share its Radio Access 
Network with TPG and supply 4G and 5G services in exchange for service charges. 
The agreement is for 11 years, with one option for TPG to extend the agreement by a 
further five years. 
• 
TPG will gain access to the coverage provided by around 2,444 Optus mobile sites, 
improving its depth of coverage in regional Australia and increasing its coverage in 
the Coverage Area from around 400,000 km2 (95.4% of the population) to around 
1,000,000km2 (98.4% of the population).  
• 
The MOCN Services Agreement will cover voice, data, SMS, fixed wireless, 
Narrowband Internet of Things for consumer and enterprise customers, and NBN 
wireless backup services. TPG will have the ability to resupply the MOCN services to 
its retail and wholesale customers, and once implemented, TPG’s retail and 
wholesale customers will use Optus' 4G and 5G regional network. 
• 
Under the Proposed Arrangement, Optus will not be allowed to delay TPG’s access 
to 5G sites on the MOCN Network.  
Spectrum Authorisation Agreement 
• 
Pursuant to the Spectrum Authorisation Agreement, TPG will authorise Optus to use 
parts of the spectrum it holds licences for in 700MHz, 1800MHz, 3600MHz and 
3700Mhz bands in the Coverage Area in exchange for authorisation fees. 


 
 
 
• 
This spectrum will be pooled with Optus’s spectrum and made available to both 
parties in the Coverage Area, pursuant to the MOCN Services Agreement. 
• 
The Spectrum Authorisation Agreement does not authorise Optus to use all TPG 
spectrum within the Coverage Area. TPG will retain certain spectrum bands within 
the Coverage Area, as well as the right to use this spectrum beyond the Coverage 
Area. 
• 
The Spectrum Authorisation Agreement is deemed by s 68A of the 
Radiocommunications Act 1992 (Cth) to be an acquisition for the purposes of s 50 of 
the Competition and Consumer Act 2020 (Cth). 
Site Transfer Agreement 
• 
Pursuant to the Site Transfer Agreement, TPG will transfer a number of TPG mobile 
sites inside the Coverage Area to Optus. The number of sites remains subject to due 
diligence, however an initial list of 129 TPG sites have been identified for transfer. 
TPG intends to decommission its remaining sites in the Coverage Area. 
• 
TPG will transfer Optus, or Optus will enter into, the relevant leases and/or licence 
rights for each identified TPG site. TPG will retain rights to seek re-occupancy of 
these sites on expiry or termination of the MOCN Services Agreement. 
Background – Telstra and TPG’s application for merger authorisation 
On 23 May 2022, Telstra Corporation Limited (Telstra) and TPG (together, the Applicants) 
applied for merger authorisation for the sharing of spectrum and active network infrastructure 
in certain regional and urban fringe areas of Australia (the Telstra/TPG proposed 
transaction)  
The Telstra/TPG proposed transaction was similar in nature to the Proposed Arrangement. 
Broadly, the Telstra/TPG proposed transaction involved TPG authorising Telstra to use 
spectrum held by TPG, and Telstra providing TPG with active mobile network infrastructure 
services in an area which approximately 17% of Australian’s reside (the Regional Coverage 
Zone). TPG intended to transfer up to 169 of its existing mobile sites to Telstra and 
decommission the remainder. The agreements underpinning this deal had a possible 
duration of 20 years. 
On 21 December 2022 the ACCC released a determination deciding not to grant 
authorisation for the Telstra/TPG proposed transaction. A copy of the ACCC’s Reasons for 
determination is available on the ACCC’s merger authorisation public register here. 
On 23 December 2022, the Applicants lodged an application for review of the ACCC’s 
decision in the Australian Competition Tribunal (Tribunal). 
On 21 June 2023 the Tribunal affirmed the ACCC’s determination dismissing the application 
for merger authorisation lodged by Telstra and TPG. A copy of the Tribunal’s Reasons for 
Determination are available on the Tribunal’s website here. 
