Dear interested party 
 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is an independent statutory 
authority responsible for investigating whether mergers or acquisitions are likely to 
substantially lessen competition. 
 
We are seeking your views on the proposed acquisition of Ovato Ltd (Ovato) by IVE Group 
(IVE) (the proposed acquisition). IVE and Ovato both supply heatset web offset printing 
services, which are used to print advertising catalogues and magazines. 
 
Given Ovato is in administration, the ACCC is undertaking its investigation on a truncated 
basis, and is seeking submissions by 17 August 2022. Please send comments by return 
email or call Olivia King on (03) 9290 1498 to set up a phone discussion. The ACCC will 
publish a provisional decision date on its mergers register in due course, however, industry 
participants should expect the timeline to be significantly shorter than typical ACCC informal 
merger reviews. 
 
We are seeking your views on: 
• 
whether customers of catalogue and magazine printing services require particular 
types of printing methods (for example, heatset web offset printing) to produce 
printed materials that are suitable for their needs, including the extent to which 
coldset web offset printing is a viable alternative  
• 
whether demand for catalogue and magazine printing services has changed, 
including the extent to which customers are switching from printed materials to digital 
or online publications and marketing 
• 
the availability of alternative suppliers of catalogue and magazine printing services, 
and how the alternative compares to IVE and/or Ovato on factors such as price and 
quality 
• 
the extent to which suppliers of other printing services (for example, newspaper 
publishers) could competitively print catalogues and magazines 
• 
the likelihood of new entry or expansion into the supply of catalogue and magazine 
printing services in Australia, including the costs and lead times (for example, to 
source printing presses and personnel) 
• 
what would happen to the Ovato business/assets if the sale to IVE does not proceed, 
and 
• 
any other competition concerns relevant to the ACCC’s consideration of the 
proposed acquisition.  
 
Please also provide a brief description of your business, and the reasons for your interest in 
the proposed acquisition, including any commercial relationship/s with either of IVE or Ovato.  
 
This matter is public and you can forward this email to anybody who may be interested. 
 
The ACCC will treat any comments confidentially, and will not publish submissions regarding 
the proposed acquisition. We will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our 
advisors/consultants) unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information 
legislation or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition 
and Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, 
the ACCC will notify you in advance where possible so that you may have an opportunity to 
be heard. Therefore, if the information provided to the ACCC is of a confidential nature, 
please indicate as such. Our Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more 
information on confidentiality. 
