 
Page 1 of 16 
 
Statement of Issues 
17 October 2014 
 Rheem Australia Pty Ltd - possible acquisition of the 
water heater assets of Dux Manufacturing Ltd 
Introduction 
1. 
Outlined below is the Statement of Issues released by the Australian 
Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) on the proposed acquisition by 
Rheem Australia Pty Ltd (Rheem) of the water heater assets of Dux 
Manufacturing Ltd (Dux) (proposed acquisition). 
2. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well 
as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
3. 
In line with the ACCC’s Merger Review Process Guidelines (at 
www.accc.gov.au/processguidelines) the ACCC has established a secondary 
timeline for further consideration of the issues. The ACCC anticipates completing 
further market inquiries by 31 October 2014 and anticipates making a final 
decision on 20 November 2014. However, the anticipated timeline can change in 
line with the Merger Review Process Guidelines. To keep abreast of possible 
changes in relation to timing and to find relevant documents, market participants 
should visit the Mergers Register on the ACCC's website at 
www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
4. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 
Background 
5. 
The ACCC commenced its public review of the proposed acquisition on 25 
August 2014. 
The parties 
6. 
Rheem is Australia’s largest manufacturer and supplier of water heaters. A 
subsidiary of Japan’s Paloma Co Ltd, it has manufacturing facilities in Rydalmere 


Rheem Australia Pty Ltd - possible acquisition of water heater assets of Dux Manufacturing Ltd 
 
Page 2 of 16 
(NSW), Welshpool (WA) for solar heaters, and Moorabbin (Vic) for stainless 
steel water heaters and commercial boilers.  
7. 
Dux is Australia’s second largest manufacturer and supplier of water heaters. A 
wholly owned subsidiary of ASX listed GWA Group Ltd (GWA), it has a 
manufacturing facility in Moss Vale (NSW). 
Other industry participants 
8. 
Rinnai Australia Pty Ltd (Rinnai) is an importer and supplier of electric storage 
and solar water heaters, and Australia’s largest importer and supplier of 
continuous flow water heaters. Rinnai has indicated it also intends to bid to 
acquire the assets of Dux. 
9. 
Bosch Thermotechnology (Bosch) is a wholly owned division of Robert Bosch 
(Australia) Pty Ltd and imports and supplies gas continuous flow water heaters, 
heat pump water heaters and gas heating boilers. 
10. 
Reece Plumbing Supplies (Reece) is Australia’s largest distributor of plumbing 
products and a large customer of both Rheem and Dux. 
11. 
Tradelink Plumbing Centres (Tradelink), a member of the Fletcher Building 
Group, is a plumbing supplies merchant and a large customer of both Rheem 
and Dux. 
12. 
Plumbing Plus Bathroom Kitchen Laundry Pty Ltd (Plumbing Plus) represents 
Australia’s largest group of independent plumbing supplies merchants and is a 
large customer of Rheem. 
The transaction 
13. 
GWA has stated that it intends to divest the Dux business as it is non-core. 
GWA’s FY14 annual report and accompanying media release indicated that 
sales in the hot water product category were down 7% and that the category was 
“extremely challenging”. 
14. 
Rheem proposes to acquire the Dux water heater assets including intellectual 
property, brands, stock and equipment. 
Market inquiries 
15. 
On 27 August 2014 the ACCC commenced market inquiries regarding the 
proposed acquisition. 
16. 
The ACCC received responses to its market inquiries letter from a range of 
industry participants including hot water heater manufacturers, plumbing 
supplies wholesalers and plumbers. 
Future with and without the acquisition  
17. 
Section 50 of the Act prohibits mergers or acquisitions that would have the effect 
or be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
In assessing a proposed acquisition pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC 
considers the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future competitive 


Rheem Australia Pty Ltd - possible acquisition of water heater assets of Dux Manufacturing Ltd 
 
Page 3 of 16 
environment post-acquisition if the acquisition proceeds (the “with” position) to 
the likely future competitive environment if the acquisition does not proceed (the 
“without” position) to determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in any relevant market. 
18. 
On the basis of the information currently available, the ACCC considers that, in 
the future without the proposed acquisition, Dux is likely to be acquired by 
another party without significant Australian hot water heater manufacturing 
capability. This party may be Rinnai, which has indicated an intention to bid for 
the assets, or another (currently undisclosed) bidder. 
Industry background 
19. 
There are two broad types of hot water heaters in use within Australia: storage 
water heaters and continuous flow water heaters1.  Each of these types of water 
heaters can be powered using different energy sources. 
20. 
Storage water heaters heat water prior to use and store it in a tank. These tanks 
are heavily insulated to maintain water temperature and increase unit efficiency. 
They also must be highly corrosion resistant as the minerals in the water can be 
very corrosive at high temperatures.   
21. 
Storage water heaters can be: 
a. electric 
b. gas 
c. solar2 or 
d. heat pump3 
22. 
In Australia the tanks used in storage water heaters are most commonly lined 
with a vitreous enamel coating, but can also be made with marine grade 
stainless steel.  Market enquiries have indicated that stainless steel tanks, while 
they can be more durable, are significantly more expensive to produce than 
vitreous enamel tanks.  The ACCC understands that stainless steel tanks are 
relatively common in solar and heat pump water heaters, but the proportion of 
electric and gas storage heaters supplied in Australia using stainless steel tanks 
is currently very small.  They are primarily used in commercial rather than 
domestic applications 
23. 
Continuous flow water heaters are wall mounted units that heat water only as 
needed. Continuous flow water heaters can be either: 
a. gas, or 
                                                 
 
1 For the purposes of this Statement of Issues, the ACCC uses the term ‘continuous flow’ to refer to both 
continuous flow and instantaneous water heaters.   
2 Solar water heating systems typically also contain a gas or electric-powered booster for times when 
sufficient solar energy is unavailable. 
3 Heat pump units use a reverse refrigerator-type cycle to draw heat from the air and also typically 
include a gas or electric-powered booster. 


Rheem Australia Pty Ltd - possible acquisition of water heater assets of Dux Manufacturing Ltd 
 
Page 4 of 16 
b. electric. 
24. 
However, as is discussed below, the ACCC understands that continuous flow 
electric water heaters do not provide sufficient hot water for most households or 
commercial applications.  
Electric and gas storage water heaters  
25. 
Rheem and Dux both manufacture electric and gas storage water heaters in 
Australia, including the vitreous enamel storage tanks commonly used as a 
component of these heaters.   
26. 
Rheem supplies the following electric and gas storage heaters: 
a. Electric: models range from 25 to 400L in capacity; and 
b. Gas: models range from 80 to 275 litres.   
27. 
A small proportion of the electric and gas storage water heaters supplied by 
Rheem include a stainless steel tank rather than a vitreous enamel tank.  Rheem 
also manufactures the stainless steel tanks.   
28. 
Dux supplies the following electric and gas storage water heaters with vitreous 
enamel tanks: 
a. Electric: models range from 25 to 400 litres capacity; and 
b. Gas: models range from 135 to 170 litres in capacity. 
29. 
Market participants generally considered that electric storage water heaters 
could be divided into categories of: 
a. large storage heaters: ranging from around 125 litres in capacity 
upwards, these are suitable for providing water to an average sized 
family home; and 
b. small storage heaters: being around 80 litres or less in capacity, these 
are primarily used for small apartments or low-water demand 
commercial settings such as under a kitchen bench. 
30. 
The majority of electric and gas storage water heaters sold in Australia fall within 
the ‘large’ category.4 
31. 
Rheem is the only remaining Australian manufacturer of small vitreous enamel 
storage water heaters, while all other suppliers (including Dux) import small 
electric vitreous enamel storage heaters. The proportion of small tanks supplied 
that are imported has been increasing, and it is not clear that the Australian 
manufacture of small units will continue to be cost effective.  
                                                 
 
4 For gas storage water heaters, the boundaries of these ‘large’ and ‘small’ segments may be different.  
The average tank size for gas storage water heaters tends to be smaller than for electric storage water 
heaters due to the higher calorific value of gas which provides gas units with a higher ‘recovery rate’ 
than electric units. 


Rheem Australia Pty Ltd - possible acquisition of water heater assets of Dux Manufacturing Ltd 
 
Page 5 of 16 
Continuous flow water heaters  
32. 
Continuous flow water heaters typically deliver water at a slower rate than 
storage water heaters. However, they have other benefits such as wireless 
controls and a constant supply of hot water.  
33. 
Most continuous flow heaters sold in Australia are gas models and therefore can 
only be installed in areas where reticulated gas is available or LPG tanks are in 
use. Electric continuous flow units are typically only suitable for small apartments 
or commercial settings such as under a kitchen bench.  The ACCC understands 
that, in order to produce a sufficient amount of hot water for an average sized 
Australian home, an electric continuous flow water heater would require three-
phase power, whereas most Australian homes have single-phase power.  
34. 
Continuous flow heaters are not manufactured in Australia. Market participants 
suggested that this was because it was more cost effective to import continuous 
flow heaters than to manufacture them domestically. 
35. 
Rheem and Dux both import and distribute continuous flow water heaters. 
Solar and heat pump water heaters 
36. 
Solar and heat pump water heaters also include, as a key component of the unit, 
a storage tank (commonly vitreous enamel), albeit with different attachments and 
connections than for electric or gas storage. Solar and heat pump water heaters 
may alternatively be assembled using stainless steel storage tanks. 
37. 
Solar and heat pump water heaters are supplied in Australia both by the merger 
parties and by other companies, some of whom specialise in the supply of these 
types of water heaters.  Some of these competing solar and heat pump water 
heater suppliers use tanks supplied by Dux, while others manufacture their own 
tanks (stainless steel only) or import either the tank or complete water heater. 
38. 
The merger parties supply solar water heaters as follows: 
a. Rheem supplies solar water heaters that are either gas or electric 
boosted and range in capacity from 150 to 5000 litres. 
b. Dux supplies solar water heaters that are either gas or electric boosted 
and range in capacity from 250 to 400 litres. 
39. 
Rheem and Dux both manufacture and supply heat pump water heaters. 
Replacement water heaters versus new installations 
40. 
Market participants generally agreed that approximately 70-80% of water heater 
sales in Australia are to customers seeking to replace an existing water heater.  
41. 
Large electric and gas storage water heaters are the most prevalent type of 
water heater in Australian homes. 
42. 
As discussed further below, the ACCC considers that there are a number of 
factors which may limit the substitutability of an alternative type of water heater 
for a customer seeking to replace an existing gas or electric storage heater. 


Rheem Australia Pty Ltd - possible acquisition of water heater assets of Dux Manufacturing Ltd 
 
Page 6 of 16 
43. 
For the approximately 20-30% of water heater sales which involve new 
installation (as opposed to replacement), choice of water heater unit is based on 
factors including availability of reticulated gas and state regulatory requirements, 
and is typically made by the builder. 
Factors that affect choice of a replacement water heater 
44. 
The majority of market participants contacted estimate that a substantial majority 
of installations in the replacement segment are like-for-like installations, where a 
customer replaces their existing unit with the same type of unit.  Market 
participants suggested that factors that influence this preference for like-for-like 
replacement include: 
a) replacements are often an emergency purchase made when the customer’s 
existing unit fails.  In these circumstances, the consumer’s lack of access to 
hot water means that speed of replacement is an important factor; 
b) replacing a heater with the same type of unit (and often the same size unit) 
can allow faster and cheaper installation;  
c) switching energy sources (e.g. from electric to gas) may not be possible 
(e.g. in areas where reticulated gas is unavailable), and even where it is 
possible switching can be expensive; and 
d) particularly in circumstances where the purchase is unplanned (due to 
failure of the customer’s existing unit), consumers may favour a low up-
front cost (as opposed to investing in e.g. a solar model with higher upfront 
costs but lower running costs). 
45. 
Market participants identified the following factors which affect the likelihood of a 
customer with an existing electric storage heater replacing that heater with a 
different type of unit: 
a) switching to any kind of gas-powered unit will only be an option if 
reticulated gas is available in the area where the unit is located, or if 
running the unit on bottled gas (LPG) is viable; 
b) where gas is not available, the electric continuous flow water heaters 
available in Australia do not appear to have the capacity to supply sufficient 
hot water for anything larger than a small apartment (or other equivalent 
low-demand application); and 
c) solar water heaters and heat pumps, while they may potentially be 
equivalent in cost or cheaper than storage heaters for the customer over 
the longer term, involve a significant upfront cost (approximately three 
times more than the cost of an electric or gas storage water heater in the 
case of heat pumps and even more in the case of solar) that some 
customers cannot afford or are not prepared to pay. 
46. 
For customers who have access to reticulated gas, the ACCC understands that 
the unit price of continuous flow water heaters is comparable to that of gas 
storage water heaters, and may in fact be cheaper than the most energy efficient 
gas storage water heaters.  However, market participants suggested that the 
degree of substitution from gas storage water heaters to continuous flow water 
heaters may be limited by factors including: 


Rheem Australia Pty Ltd - possible acquisition of water heater assets of Dux Manufacturing Ltd 
 
Page 7 of 16 
a) most continuous flow units require high capacity gas which may necessitate 
replacing the gas pipes to the unit if the existing pipes are too narrow; 
b) as continuous flow units are typically mounted on a wall at eye level, and 
storage units are typically installed on the ground, gas and water piping 
connections need to be changed when switching from a storage unit to a 
continuous flow unit;  
c) continuous flow water heaters typically deliver water at a slower rate than 
storage water heaters.  While regulatory standards for new shower heads 
may mean that there is little appreciable difference in most cases, there 
appears to be a perception amongst some consumers that continuous flow 
water heaters have insufficient flow rates; and 
d) for the reasons outlined above (i.e. ease and speed of installing a 
replacement unit), consumers may prefer to replace their existing water 
heater with the same type of unit. 
Previous ACCC decisions 
47. 
On 30 July 2009, the ACCC released a Public Competition Assessment in 
relation to Rheem’s proposed acquisition of Aqua-Max Pty Ltd, which was not 
opposed by the ACCC.5  Based on the information available at the time, the 
ACCC adopted an Australian market for the manufacture and supply of water 
heaters as the relevant market.  However, the ACCC also considered the impact 
of the proposed acquisition on a range of narrower product segments.  
48. 
In its decision, the ACCC took into account the then current and likely future 
regulation of water heaters. In particular, at that time the Commonwealth, states, 
and territories had jointly proposed to begin phasing out electric storage water 
heaters. However, many of these government initiatives have ultimately not been 
implemented or have been significantly scaled back. At the time of the decision 
there were also significant government rebates available to customers who 
chose to install more energy efficient water heaters, such as solar models. 
These incentives have similarly been discontinued or scaled back in most 
states/territories.  
49. 
The changes in the regulatory environment since the ACCC’s decision in the 
Rheem/Aqua-Max matter is one factor that may warrant analysis of narrower 
product markets in the current matter, as these changes may have made 
customer substitution between types of water heaters less likely than was the 
case in 2009. 
MARKET DEFINITION 
50. 
The ACCC’s starting point for delineating relevant markets to assess the 
competitive effects of the proposed acquisition involves identifying the products 
actually or potentially supplied by the merger parties.  The ACCC then considers 
what other products constitute sufficiently close substitutes to provide a 
significant source of constraint on the merged entity. 
 
                                                 
 
5 This proposed acquisition was later completed by Rheem. 


Rheem Australia Pty Ltd - possible acquisition of water heater assets of Dux Manufacturing Ltd 
 
Page 8 of 16 
Areas of overlap 
51. 
Rheem and Dux overlap in: 
 
the manufacture and supply of gas and electric storage water heaters;   
 
the manufacture and supply of solar storage water heaters (gas or electric 
boosted);  
 
the manufacture and supply of heat pump water heaters; and 
 
the importation and supply of continuous flow gas water heaters.  
52. 
Post-acquisition Rheem would become the only Australian manufacturer of 
vitreous enamel storage water heaters. The proposed acquisition would 
significantly increase Rheem’s market share in the supply of electric and gas 
storage water heaters, as imports of these products by other parties are 
relatively small.   
53. 
Rheem and Dux also overlap in the supply of solar water heaters and heat 
pumps.  The ACCC understands that Dux’s share of sales of these products is 
not large, and that these products may be more readily imported, at least at the 
exchange rates that have prevailed in recent years. 
54. 
While both Rheem and Dux also supply (imported) continuous flow water 
heaters, the proposed acquisition would create significantly less aggregation in 
this product category as Dux only supplies a relatively small number of units.  
Rinnai is currently the largest supplier of continuous flow water heaters in 
Australia.  Bosch is also a significant supplier of continuous water flow heaters in 
Australia.   
Customer substitution opportunities 
55. 
On current information, the ACCC considers that in geographic areas where 
households do not already have a mains gas connection, there is likely to be 
minimal opportunity for customers to substitute from electric storage water 
heaters to continuous flow heaters. While LPG is available in some areas, the 
ACCC understands that running a water heater on LPG involves very high 
operating costs. As noted above, electric continuous flow water heaters are likely 
to be suitable only for very small apartments. 
56. 
In areas where households do not already have a mains gas connection, 
substitution from electric storage water heaters to solar or heat pump water 
heaters is likely to be limited by the relatively higher upfront costs and possibly 
other (non-price) factors that render these options unsuitable in some situations.  
57. 
Even where households do already have a mains gas connection, market 
enquiries indicate that the opportunity for customer substitution away from 
electric or gas water storage heaters is likely to be limited by: 
 
consumers’ preference to replace existing water heaters on a like for like 
basis (as noted in the industry background section above, where the 
replacement is due to breakdown of the existing unit, a key consideration 
for the consumer will be to replace the unit as quickly as possible); 


Rheem Australia Pty Ltd - possible acquisition of water heater assets of Dux Manufacturing Ltd 
 
Page 9 of 16 
 
the relatively high cost to switch from a larger capacity storage water 
heater to a continuous flow unit in buildings that do not have a high 
capacity gas connection.  This may require replacing the pipes from the 
meter to the water heater if the existing pipes are too narrow; and 
 
the higher cost to install a solar or heat pump water heater relative to the 
cost to purchase and install a replacement electric or gas water storage 
heater.  
Supplier substitution opportunities 
58. 
There appears to be significant potential for substitution between the 
manufacture and supply of electric storage water heaters and gas storage water 
heaters. The ACCC understands that electric and gas storage water heaters 
contain a number of common components and are often manufactured in the 
same facility and using the same equipment.   
59. 
On current information, there appears to be limited opportunity for substitution by 
suppliers of other types of water heaters into the supply of electric and gas 
storage water heaters.  As noted above, continuous flow water heaters use 
substantially different technology and are not manufactured in Australia. 
60. 
Solar and heat pump storage water heaters may be supply-side substitutes for 
electric and gas storage water heaters as they use the same type of tanks.  
However, as there are no other domestic manufacturers of vitreous enamel 
tanks, post-acquisition a new entrant would need to either import vitreous 
enamel tanks (issues with importing large storage tanks are discussed below) or 
obtain supply from Rheem.  It is not clear that Rheem would be willing to supply 
a potential competitor with vitreous enamel tanks at a price that would enable it 
to compete effectively. 
61. 
While some Australian solar and heat pump water heater suppliers use stainless 
steel tanks, market enquiries indicate that these are significantly more expensive 
to produce than vitreous enamel tanks.  Therefore a solar or heat pump water 
heater supplier seeking to begin supplying electric and gas storage water 
heaters using stainless steel tanks is unlikely to place significant competitive 
constraint on Rheem.  
62. 
However, the ACCC will continue to consider the likelihood of companies which 
currently supply solar or heat pump water heaters switching to supplying electric 
and gas storage heaters in response to an increase by Rheem in the price of 
storage water heaters post-acquisition.     
63. 
The ACCC will also consider the potential for other hot water heater companies 
to begin importing (or expand their importation of) storage hot water heaters in 
response to a price increase by Rheem post-acquisition.  The issue of imports is 
discussed further under the ‘Issues of concerns’ heading below. 
Potential for price discrimination 
64. 
On current information, the ACCC considers it is likely that a monopolist supplier 
of electric storage heaters (or both electric and gas storage heaters) would have 
considerable scope to charge different prices for electric storage water heaters 
than for gas storage heaters.  The ACCC understands that the majority of 
households that acquire electric storage heaters either do not have access to 


Rheem Australia Pty Ltd - possible acquisition of water heater assets of Dux Manufacturing Ltd 
 
Page 10 of 16 
reticulated gas or prefer to replace their electric storage heater with another 
electric storage heater.  Even if continuous flow water heaters act as a constraint 
on the pricing of gas storage units, they are unlikely to constrain the pricing of 
electric storage heaters.  The ACCC is seeking further information to test this 
view. 
65. 
Manufacturers and importers of storage water heater units typically supply 
Australia-wide. However, the ACCC will consider whether there is potential for 
price discrimination by suppliers between different geographic regions, for 
example between areas with access to reticulated gas and areas without 
reticulated gas. 
Preliminary view on relevant market(s) 
66. 
As outlined above, based on information received by the ACCC to date, there 
appear to be strong limitations on the ability of customers to substitute from 
electric storage to gas-powered water heaters (including gas storage and 
continuous flow water heaters).  There also appear to be some significant 
limitations on substitutability both from the customer and supplier perspective 
between electric or gas storage water heaters and other types of water heaters. 
The ACCC is continuing to explore the degree of substitutability within these 
markets.  
67. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the markets relevant for assessing the 
competition effects of the acquisition are likely to be separate markets for the 
supply of different types of water heaters in Australia, in particular electric and 
gas storage water heaters (either together or separately), continuous flow water 
heaters and solar and heat pump water heaters. 
68. 
The ACCC will further consider the extent to which competitive conditions differ 
as between: 
a. the supply of electric storage water heaters compared to gas storage 
water heaters (to assess whether there may be separate markets for 
gas storage and electric storage water heaters); and 
b. the supply of large storage water heaters compared to small storage 
water heaters.  
69. 
Even if the relevant market is a broader one, such as a market for the supply of 
all types of water heaters, for the reasons set out below in the ‘Issues of concern’ 
section, the proposed acquisition may still be likely to have the effect of 
substantially lessening competition in that market. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary views about 
the definition of the relevant market(s). In particular market participants may wish to 
comment on the following: 
 
The extent to which continuous flow heaters are currently chosen by customers 
seeking to replace an existing gas storage heater, and the factors that limit such 
switching including: 
- details of the costs and time involved in switching from gas storage to continuous 
flow; 
 


Rheem Australia Pty Ltd - possible acquisition of water heater assets of Dux Manufacturing Ltd 
 
Page 11 of 16 
- whether the below-mains pressure flow of continuous flow water heaters is a    
significant disincentive for such switching; and 
- customer perceptions of the advantages of continuous flow units compared to  
storage water heaters, including in terms of economic efficiency, environmental  
benefits and long-term cost savings. 
 
The extent to which customers seeking to replace an existing electric storage 
water heater currently choose a different type of water heater, and the factors that 
limit such switching including: 
- in areas where reticulated gas is available, but not connected to the customer’s  
premises, the costs involved in installing those connections; and 
 
- the extent to which an LPG-powered continuous flow water heater is a viable  
option for customers in areas without reticulated gas. 
 
The extent to which consumers would be likely to switch from either electric or gas 
storage water heaters to continuous flow water heaters in the event of a significant 
increase in the price of electric or gas storage water heaters. 
 
The extent to which customers currently choose stainless steel electric or gas 
water heaters, or would be likely to do so in response to an increase in the price of 
vitreous enamel water heaters. 
 
The availability of data or reliable estimates in relation to: 
- the proportion of hot water heater installations that take place in a replacement  
context in comparison with new installations; 
 
- the proportion of replacement hot water installations that are like-for-like as  
opposed to instances of customers switching between hot water heater types; and 
 
- the proportion of new water heater installations (as opposed to replacement) that  
are for end users with access to reticulated gas, and the proportion that would be  
for end users with access to the high capacity gas necessary for larger continuous  
flow units. 
 
The extent to which solar water heaters and heat pump water heaters constrain the 
prices of electric and gas storage water heaters, taking into account factors such 
as higher upfront costs and potentially lower running costs. 
 
How changes to the regulation of hot water heaters (including changes to rebate 
schemes) have affected customers’ choice of hot water heater. 
 
Whether suppliers of solar or heat pump water heaters are likely to switch to 
supplying electric or gas storage water heaters in response to an increase in the 
price of electric or gas storage water heaters. 
 
Whether importers of vitreous enamel tanks for solar and heat pump water heaters 
could also cost effectively import vitreous enamel tanks for gas or electric storage 
water heater use. 


Rheem Australia Pty Ltd - possible acquisition of water heater assets of Dux Manufacturing Ltd 
 
Page 12 of 16 
Statement of issues 
70. 
For the purposes of this Statement of Issues, the issues in this matter are 
divided into two categories, 'issues of concern', and 'issues that may raise 
concerns'. 
Issues of concern 
Unilateral effects: likely increase in Rheem’s market power in the supply of 
electric and gas storage water heaters  
 
71. 
Based upon its inquiries to date, the ACCC is concerned that the proposed 
acquisition is likely to substantially lessen competition by further strengthening 
Rheem’s position in the relevant market(s) and eliminating the competitive 
constraint provided by Dux. The ACCC is concerned that post-acquisition there 
is likely to be insufficient constraint to prevent Rheem from raising prices or 
reducing service levels, particularly with respect to its larger capacity gas and 
electric storage water heaters. 
Market concentration 
The proposed acquisition is a substantial aggregation in the supply of electric 
and gas storage water heaters in Australia.  Rheem and Dux are the only 
Australian manufacturers of vitreous enamel storage water heaters. 
72. 
While there are other manufacturers of electric and gas storage water heaters 
using stainless steel storage water tanks, these companies do not have 
significant market share and it is not clear that they would have the ability to 
constrain the merged firm post acquisition. 
73. 
There are a small number of importers of electric and gas storage water heaters 
other than the merger parties, but their market share is small.  The role of 
imports is discussed further below.  
Barriers to entry 
74. 
Market participants have generally submitted that barriers to entry for vitreous 
enamel storage water heater manufacture are high as establishing a factory for 
these tanks involves large sunk costs.  The ACCC also understands that vitreous 
enamel tank manufacturing facilities have a minimum efficient scale that is large 
relative to the level of demand in Australia.  
75. 
The importance of branding and the need to develop relationships with 
wholesalers and installers were also cited as barriers to entry.  The ACCC 
understands that volume rebates paid by manufacturers/importers to 
wholesalers and installers are common within the industry. These may present a 
barrier for a potential new entrant. 
Imports 
76. 
Imports of continuous flow and small storage water heaters are commonplace 
(although the latter are primarily imported by the merger parties). However 
market inquiries have indicated that there are limitations on the commercial 
viability of importing large electric and gas storage water heaters. 
77. 
Market participants generally considered that large electric and gas storage 
water heaters are significantly more difficult to import than smaller storage water 


Rheem Australia Pty Ltd - possible acquisition of water heater assets of Dux Manufacturing Ltd 
 
Page 13 of 16 
heaters. Market participants generally stated that the difficulties were due to the 
size of the tanks, which results in low shipping container utilisation and therefore 
increased shipping and handling costs when compared with smaller storage or 
continuous flow units.  The high shipping costs for large storage water heaters 
may potentially outweigh the cost savings from lower overseas labour costs. 
78. 
Some large electric storage water heaters are imported into Australia, although 
the proportion of overall sales remains small. Some market participants 
suggested that these heaters were of inferior quality. Some market participants 
questioned the profitability of these imports and suggested that they were reliant 
on a favourable foreign exchange rate over recent years and therefore may not 
continue to be viable in the future. 
79. 
Market participants indicated that a number of companies had attempted the 
importation of large storage water tanks in the past, but these imports had rarely 
been successful or sustained. 
80. 
The ACCC notes that solar and heat pump units (which typically include a large 
storage water tank) seem to be more commonly imported (at current exchange 
rates) than large electric or gas storage water heaters.  Market participants 
indicated that this was because the tank was a less significant component of the 
overall cost of these units and as such they could be more economically 
imported, particularly if the entire water heater was assembled overseas. Some 
market participants also suggested that the importation of heat pump water 
heaters is viable as the imported units may be of higher quality than the 
domestically manufactured units. 
Removal of a vigorous and effective competitor 
81. 
Market participants contacted generally considered Dux to be an effective 
competitor to Rheem, noting that Dux has often led prices down in its supply of 
electric and gas storage water heaters. 
82. 
It was also noted that Dux has been more willing than Rheem to supply electric 
and gas storage heaters through different channels. For example, Dux supplies 
storage units to Reece for sale under Reece’s Thermann brand.  Dux also 
supplies storage units to Bunnings with the option of an installation service, and 
supplies tanks to solar water heater manufacturers for assembly with their own 
imported solar collectors. 
83. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that these and other activities by Dux may have 
contributed to lower prices for electric and gas storage water heaters than would 
have existed without the presence of Dux in the market. 
Countervailing power 
84. 
In the ACCC’s view, countervailing power exists when buyers have special 
characteristics that enable them to defeat a seller’s attempted exercise of market 
power by credibly threatening to bypass the merged firm by vertically integrating 
into the upstream market, establishing importing operations or sponsoring new 
entry.6  Countervailing power is therefore more than the ability of key customers 
to switch to alternative products or suppliers. 
                                                 
 
6 ACCC Merger Guidelines 2008, 7.48. 


Rheem Australia Pty Ltd - possible acquisition of water heater assets of Dux Manufacturing Ltd 
 
Page 14 of 16 
85. 
The customers of Rheem and Dux include a number of large plumbing supplies 
wholesalers such as Reece, Tradelink and Plumbing Plus. 
86. 
However, the ability of these customers to exercise countervailing power against 
Rheem post-acquisition depends on their ability to bypass Rheem and begin 
either manufacturing or importing electric and gas storage water heaters 
themselves.  The ACCC’s preliminary view is that it is unlikely that even the 
merged entity’s largest customers would begin manufacturing storage water 
heaters domestically, or sponsor new entry, due to the large sunk costs and 
minimum efficient scale discussed above.  Accordingly, the ability for customers 
to exercise countervailing power most likely depends on their ability to import 
large storage water heaters.  
87. 
The ACCC will continue to explore whether large customers of Rheem and Dux 
have the ability to bypass the merged entity and begin importing large electric 
and gas storage water heaters themselves in the event of a significant and non-
transitory price increase by Rheem post-acquisition. 
ACCC’s preliminary views 
88. 
In summary, the ACCC is concerned that: 
a. the threat of imports may be insufficient to constrain Rheem in its 
pricing of large electric and gas storage water heaters; 
b. for many customers who do not have access to reticulated gas, there 
may be no viable alternative to a large electric storage water heater 
(due to the significantly higher upfront cost of solar and heat pump 
water heaters and because small units provide insufficient water); and 
c. even for those customers that do have access to reticulated gas, there 
may be potential limitations on customer switching to continuous flow 
gas heaters (for the reasons discussed above).  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to the 
extent to which the proposed acquisition is likely to increase Rheem’s ability and 
incentive to raise price or reduce service. In particular market participants may wish to 
comment on the following: 
 
The viability of importing large storage water heaters into Australia, including: 
- the impact of foreign exchange rates on the viability of large storage water heater  
imports (as compared with smaller unit); 
 
- whether imported large and small vitreous enamel tanks are of comparable  
quality to tanks produced by Rheem and Dux; and 
 
- the extent to which imports of large vitreous enamel tanks have occurred, and  
details of such instances. 
 
Whether, at current exchange rates, it is more commercially viable to import solar 
and heat pump water heaters (or the storage tanks used in these heaters) than it is 
to import large electric and gas storage water heaters.  If so, why? 
 
Details as to whether Dux has acted as a constraint on prices in the supply of 
storage water heaters. 
 
The impact that Dux’s greater willingness (compared with Rheem) to supply 
through different channels has had on the market to date (e.g. whether it has led to 
lower prices). 


Rheem Australia Pty Ltd - possible acquisition of water heater assets of Dux Manufacturing Ltd 
 
Page 15 of 16 
 
The ability for plumbing supplies wholesalers and other customers to constrain 
potential price increases by Rheem post acquisition. 
 
The sunk costs faced by, and minimum efficient scale for, a new domestic 
manufacturer of vitreous enamel storage tanks, or water heaters that use these 
tanks. 
 
The extent to which rebates paid to wholesalers and installers act as a barrier to 
entry for potential new suppliers of water heaters. 
 
The barriers to entry in the manufacture of stainless steel water heaters. 
Issues that may raise concerns 
Reduced competition in the supply of solar and heat pump water heaters 
89. 
Solar and heat pump water heater units typically include either a vitreous enamel 
or marine grade stainless steel storage water tank as a key component. 
90. 
Market participants have indicated that Dux is the only Australian manufacturer 
of vitreous enamel storage water heater tanks which supplies tanks to Australian 
assemblers of solar water heaters.  
91. 
The ACCC will consider whether Rheem is likely to have reduced incentives to 
supply vitreous enamel tanks to solar water heater assemblers (or alternatively 
may increase the supply price to just below the import parity price) if the 
proposed acquisition were to proceed, and the potential impact this would have 
on those assemblers (noting the availability of stainless steel tanks as an 
alternative for at least some types of solar water heaters). 
92. 
The ACCC will also consider whether, if the value of the Australian dollar falls, 
the commercial viability of importing storage tanks and/or assembled solar or 
heat pump water heaters will be reduced, potentially increasing Rheem’s market 
power in the supply of these products. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to the 
supply of solar and heat pump water heaters. In particular market participants may 
wish to comment on the following: 
 
The vitreous enamel tank supply options for solar and heat pump water heater 
assemblers and manufacturers. 
 
The stainless steel tank supply options for solar and heat pump water heater 
assemblers and manufacturers. 
 
The importance of the supply of vitreous enamel storage water heater tanks to 
solar and heat pump water heater assemblers and manufacturers.  
 
The exchange rate value(s) at which it is likely to become uneconomic to import 
solar or heat pump water heater tanks and/or assembled solar or heat pump water 
heaters. 
Reduced competition in the supply of continuous flow water heaters 
93. 
Market participants have indicated that hot water heater manufacturers and 
importers commonly offer rebates to both plumbing supplies wholesalers (e.g. 
Reece or Tradelink) and installers and that these rebates are designed to 
encourage the merchant or installer to maintain or increase both volume and 
breadth (across product categories) of its sales of that manufacturer/importer’s 
products. 


Rheem Australia Pty Ltd - possible acquisition of water heater assets of Dux Manufacturing Ltd 
 
Page 16 of 16 
94. 
Some market participants have suggested that if the proposed acquisition were 
to proceed, Rheem may have an enhanced ability and incentive to offer rebates 
structured in a way that would encourage customers to purchase continuous flow 
water heaters as well as storage water heaters from Rheem.  These market 
participants suggested that this bundling conduct could adversely affect 
competition in the supply of continuous flow water heaters. 
95. 
The ACCC will consider whether Rheem would have the ability and incentive to 
use its enhanced position in the supply of storage water heaters post-acquisition 
to substantially lessen competition in the supply of continuous flow heaters. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to the 
supply of continuous flow water heaters. In particular market participants may wish to 
comment on the following: 
 
The extent and nature of rebates used in the wholesale supply of hot water heaters 
in Australia. 
 
Whether Rheem would be able to leverage its enhanced position with respect to 
storage water heaters post-acquisition to diminish competition in the supply of 
continuous flow water heaters. 
ACCC's future steps 
96. 
The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers market responses 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
97. 
The ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on each of the 
issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that may be 
relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. 
98. 
Submissions are to be received by the ACCC no later than 31 October 2014. 
The ACCC will consider the submissions received from the market and the 
merger parties in light of the issues identified above and will, in conjunction with 
information and submissions already provided by the parties, come to a final 
view in light of the issues raised above. 
99. 
The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 20 November 2014. 
However the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Merger Review 
Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose of 
explaining the ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's public 
announcement. 
