 
 
23 Marcus Clarke Street 
Canberra ACT 2601 
 
GPO Box 3131 
Canberra ACT 2601 
 
tel: (02) 6243 1368 
mergers@accc.gov.au 
 
www.accc.gov.au 
Our ref:  
IM-71973 
 
Contact officer:  
Morgan Woodland / Asa Tan  
Contact phone:  
(02) 9230 9194 / (02) 9102 4091 
 
27 September 2022 
Dear Interested Party 
Re:  Request for submissions: Innovation Holdings Australia Pty Ltd (Innovation 
Holdings) proposed acquisition of the remaining shares in iSelect Limited 
(iSelect) 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
Innovation Holdings’ proposed acquisition of the remaining shares in iSelect that it does not 
already own (the proposed acquisition). 
Innovation Holdings owns approximately 26% of the shares of iSelect.  
Both Innovation Holdings and iSelect (or their related bodies corporate) operate comparison 
websites, comparing a range of insurance, energy and financial products and services. The 
comparison websites also compare other products including roadside assistance and internet 
plans. Further details are provided at Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact on competition. In particular, we are 
seeking your views on: 
• 
how closely Innovation Holdings (including Compare The Market) and iSelect 
compete in the supply of online comparison services   
• 
whether suppliers of insurance, energy and financial products and services using 
Innovation Holdings and iSelect would have sufficient alternative distribution channels 
• 
whether Innovations Holdings (including Compare The Market) has increased prices 
or decreased service levels in the past two years since acquiring shares in iSelect.  
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
 
 


The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
Please provide your response by no later than 5pm on 11 October 2022. Responses may be 
emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: Submission re: Innovation Holdings iSelect - 
attention Morgan Woodland / Asa Tan.  
If you would like to arrange a time to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any 
questions about this letter, please contact Morgan Woodland on (02) 9230 9194 or Asa Tan 
on (02) 9102 4091.   
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public Mergers 
Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC treats sensitive information it receives during a merger review as confidential, and 
will not publish your submission. We will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our 
advisors/consultants) unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information 
legislation or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition 
and Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, 
we will notify you in advance where possible so that you have an opportunity to be heard. 
Therefore please clearly indicate if any information you provide is confidential. Our Informal 
Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
Nick Cooke 
Executive Director   
Merger Investigations  
 
 
 


 
Attachment A 
Innovation Holdings 
Innovation Holdings Australia Pty Ltd is a subsidiary of a group of companies 
comprising Reef Holdings Limited, Theseus (Monaco) SARL and several associated 
entities (IHA Group).  
IHA Group owns Compare The Market Pty Ltd. (CTM), which offers comparisons for a 
range of insurance, energy and financial products and services, as well as roadside 
assistance and hotel accommodation through its website 
www.comparethemarket.com.au.   
IHA Group also owns Auto & General Insurance Company Ltd and Auto & General 
Holdings Pty Ltd (together, Auto & General) which underwrite and distribute home, 
motor and travel insurance in Australia. Auto & General primarily operates under the 
brand ‘Budget Direct’. Auto & General also underwrites insurance for a number of other 
brands, including ING, Catch Essentials, Qantas and Virgin Money. 
iSelect 
iSelect Limited is an Australian ASX-listed company that offers comparison and 
purchasing across insurance, utilities and personal finance products from some of 
Australia’s leading brands.  
iSelect owns and operates www.iselect.com.au and www.energywatch.com.au.  These 
two websites compare a wide range of plans and policies including different types of 
insurance, energy and financial products and services, as well as internet plans.  
Areas of overlap  
iSelect and Innovation Holdings (or their related bodies corporate) both offer services 
to consumers that compare the following products:   
 
• 
Car Insurance   
• 
Home & Contents Insurance  
• 
Landlord insurance  
• 
Health Insurance   
• 
Life Insurance  
• 
Pet Insurance   
• 
Travel Insurance   
• 
Income Protection Insurance   
• 
Business Insurance  
• 
Electricity & Gas 
• 
Home Loans. 
The proposed acquisition 
Innovation Holdings owns approximately 26% of the shares in iSelect, which it acquired 
through a series of acquisitions beginning in 2018.  
In April 2021, the ACCC decided to not oppose the proposed acquisitions by Innovation 
Holdings that would have resulted in it holding up to 35% of shares in iSelect. 
Innovation Holdings did not ultimately proceed with the acquisitions and its 
shareholding subsequently diluted from approximately 29% to 26%. 
On 10 August 2022, iSelect announced it entered into a scheme implementation 
agreement with Innovation Holdings for Innovation Holdings to purchase all remaining 
shares in iSelect.


 
Attachment B 
1. Please provide a brief description of your business or organisation, including any 
commercial relationship/s you may have with Innovation Holdings and/or iSelect (or 
their related bodies corporate). 
Questions for suppliers using Innovation Holdings (or CTM) and/or iSelect 
to distribute or sell products and services 
2. Identify and describe the types of products and services you promote via Innovation 
Holdings, CTM and/or iSelect’s comparison platforms. Please also: 
a. state whether all your products or services are listed on Innovation Holdings, 
CTM and/or iSelect’s comparison platforms, and if not explain why 
b. identify any other comparison platforms you use, and list the relevant 
products and services promoted on them. 
3. Describe how you acquire the services of Innovation Holdings, CTM and/or iSelect, 
including typical contractual arrangements (e.g. contract nature and duration). 
a. Have any of these contractual terms changed in the past year or so? 
4. Explain why you use Innovation Holdings, CTM and/or iSelect’s comparison 
platforms to promote your products, including the benefits that you gain from doing 
so. 
a. If you use both Innovation Holdings, CTM and iSelect, please explain why 
you use both and the benefits from doing so compared to only using one or 
the other. 
5. Do you consider Innovation Holdings, CTM and iSelect compete closely with each 
other? Is there a particular area in which Innovation Holdings, CTM and iSelect 
compete vigorously in, for example, insurance, energy or financial products? 
a. Have you noticed any changes in the extent of competition between 
Innovation Holdings, CTM and iSelect in the past year or so? 
6. Identify other comparison platforms which compete with Innovation Holdings, CTM 
and iSelect. Discuss whether these platforms offer equivalent services. In 
responding to this question, discuss any views you have on the difference between 
comparison platforms that use a payment per click model, versus a commission per 
sale model. 
7. Identify alternative distribution channels for your products or services to consumers. 
This may include direct sales, or other online and offline intermediaries (such as 
brokers or advisers). In your response, please comment on: 
a. the effectiveness of each distribution channel  
b. why you use each distribution channel 
c. how the benefits differ from comparison platforms. 
8. State the proportion (by volume and value if possible) of your annual business (in 
total and for specific products) referred by, or otherwise related to: 
a. Innovation Holdings, CTM and/or iSelect 


 
b. comparison platforms in general. 
9. If you only use one of Innovation Holdings, CTM or iSelect’s comparison platforms, 
how easy/difficult would it be for you to switch to an alternative comparison platform? 
Please explain, including with details of any costs or difficulties involved in switching. 
10. Discuss whether and to what extent government operated comparison platforms 
(such as Energy Made Easy) are competitors of Innovation Holdings, CTM and 
iSelect. 
11. Do consumers who acquire products directly from you, use comparison platforms as 
an initial source of information? Please provide any supporting data or information. 
12. Have you noticed any changes in behaviour or conduct of Innovation Holdings in recent 
years since it sought to increase its shareholding in iSelect? If yes, please explain why you 
think such change in behaviour/conduct relates to Innovation Holdings acquiring shares in 
iSelect. 
13. Innovation Holdings (through its related bodies corporate) currently underwrites and 
distributes home, motor and travel insurance in Australia under the brand “Budget 
Direct”. Discuss whether this relationship is relevant to your use of Innovation 
Holdings’ comparison platform Compare the Market. 
Questions for competitors of Innovation Holdings, CTM and/or iSelect 
14. Specify whether your comparison site operates on a payment per click model or a 
commission per sale model. Do you consider the two models compete with each 
other? 
15. Identify and describe the types of product(s) your comparison platform compare. For 
which product(s) do you compete with Innovation Holdings, CTM and/or iSelect? 
16. Identify your competitors in the operation of comparison platforms in Australia, their 
respective estimated market shares, and the basis for those estimates.  
17. How easy/difficult is it for new entrants to provide comparison services in Australia 
equivalent to those of Innovation Holdings, CTM and iSelect? In your response, 
please comment on the likely timeframe for entry and provide details about any 
barriers to entry (e.g. access to retailer customers, strength of brand of existing 
comparison platforms, economies of scale and scope). 
18. Explain how easy/difficult it is for existing comparison platforms to expand services 
to operate comparison platforms for other products.  
19. Discuss whether and to what extent you consider you compete with government 
operated comparison platforms (such as Energy Made Easy). 
20. How important do you consider comparison platforms are to consumers as a source 
of information? Does the existence of multiple platforms benefit consumers? 
Other information or competition concerns 
21. Do you think the proposed acquisition is likely to significantly lessen competition in 
the supply of comparison services, particularly in the comparison of insurance, 
energy and home loans?  
22. Provide any additional information or comments, or identify other competition issues, that 
you consider relevant to the ACCC’s consideration of the acquisitions. 
