 
Page 1 of 18 
 
Statement of Issues 
27 August 2020 
 South Pacific Laundry – proposed acquisition of Spotless 
Laundries  
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’ 
1. 
South Pacific Laundry (SPL) proposes to acquire Spotless Group Holdings 
Limited’s (Spotless) (together, the Parties) laundry services business (Spotless 
Laundries) (the proposed acquisition).  
2. 
This Statement of Issues: 
 
gives the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission’s (ACCC) 
preliminary views on competition issues arising from the proposed 
acquisition;  
 
identifies areas of further inquiry; and 
 
invites interested parties to submit comments and information to assist our 
assessment of the issues. 
3. 
Statements of Issues are not final decisions and do not refer to confidential 
information provided by the parties or other market participants and therefore 
may not fully articulate the ACCC’s preliminary position.  
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views 
4. 
In considering the proposed acquisition, the ACCC applies the legal test which is 
set out in section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the CCA). In 
general terms, section 50 prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect, or be 
likely to have the effect, of substantially lessening competition in any market. 
5. 
The ACCC divides its preliminary views into three categories, 'issues of concern', 
'issues that may raise concerns' and ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’. In this 
Statement of Issues we identified ‘issues that may raise concerns’ and ‘issues 
unlikely to raise concerns’. 


South Pacific Laundry – proposed acquisition of Spotless Laundries 
 
 Page 2 of 18 
Issues that may raise concerns 
6. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition may substantially 
lessen competition in the supply of commercial laundry services in multiple areas 
where the Parties overlap. 
7. 
The ACCC’s preliminary concerns relate to the Adelaide, Perth, Sydney and 
Melbourne areas, where the proposed acquisition combines two of the largest 
commercial laundry suppliers in each area.   
8. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition may also 
substantially lessen competition nationally or across multiple regions, as the 
proposed acquisition combines two of the largest national commercial laundry 
suppliers and across multiple regions.  
Issues unlikely to raise concerns 
9. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to 
substantially lessen competition in the supply of commercial laundry services in 
Brisbane or Canberra. 
Making a submission 
10. 
The ACCC invites submissions from interested parties. 
11. 
Interested parties should provide submissions by 5pm on Friday, 
18 September 2020. Responses may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with 
the title: Submission re: “South Pacific Laundry/Spotless Laundries - attention 
Jonathan Koay/Soo Sian Koh”. If you would like to discuss the matter with ACCC 
staff, or have any questions about this Statement of Issues, please contact 
Jonathan Koay on 03 9658 6436 or Soo Sian Koh on 03 9290 1904.  
12. 
The ACCC anticipates making a final decision on Thursday, 
26 November 2020, however, this timeline can change. To keep up with 
possible timing changes and to find relevant documents, interested parties 
should visit the Mergers Register on the ACCC's website at 
https://www.accc.gov.au/public-registers/mergers-registers/public-informal-
merger-reviews. 
Confidentiality of submissions 
13. 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We 
will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) 
unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation 
or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the CCA. Where 
the ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, the ACCC will notify 
you in advance where possible so that you may have an opportunity to be heard.  
Therefore, please identify any confidential information that is provided to the 
ACCC. Our Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more 
information on confidentiality. 


South Pacific Laundry – proposed acquisition of Spotless Laundries 
 
 Page 3 of 18 
The Parties 
The acquirer: South Pacific Laundry 
14. 
SPL is a national supplier of commercial laundry services in Australia. Its 
services include the hiring, cleaning and delivery of linen and garments. SPL is 
wholly-owned by Australian investment firm Anchorage Capital Partners.
  
15. 
SPL currently focuses on accommodation customers in Australia, but also 
services healthcare and aged care customers in some areas. SPL has a national 
presence across metropolitan and regional areas, excluding the Northern 
Territory and Tasmania, and operates eight processing plants and ten 
distribution centres across Australia. 
The target: Spotless Laundries 
16. 
Spotless Laundries, a division of Spotless, is a national supplier of commercial 
laundry services in Australia. Its services include linen hire and the cleaning and 
delivery of linen and garments.  
17. 
Spotless Laundries primarily supplies laundry services for both linen and 
garments to healthcare and industrial customers in metropolitan and regional 
areas, but also services accommodation customers in some areas. It operates 
ten processing plants and four depots across Australia. 
18. 
Spotless is majority-owned by Australian listed company Downer EDI Limited.  
Sale of Spotless Laundries 
19. 
SPL is proposing to acquire the Spotless Laundries business of Spotless and is 
participating in a competitive bid process. The ACCC is also assessing the 
proposed acquisition of Spotless Laundries’ garment business by Alsco Pty Ltd 
(refer to the ACCC’s Merger Register).   
Industry background 
The supply chain  
20. 
There are two main classes of laundered items: linen and garments. 
21. 
The basic laundering process and the equipment typically used can be 
summarised as follows: 
Pickup soiled laundry → Sorting by item / size by hand → Washing in large 
‘tunnel’ washing machines or washer extractors → Drying in tumble driers → 
Finishing (steaming of garments) / linen ironing by machine → Linen folding by 
machine → Delivery 
22. 
Many customers opt for a ‘full rental model’ where the laundry supplier 
purchases linen/garments for the customer at the start of the contract and the 
customer hires the items back from the laundry supplier.  


South Pacific Laundry – proposed acquisition of Spotless Laundries 
 
 Page 4 of 18 
Linen and garments 
23. 
Linen refers to fabric goods including bedding, towels and tablecloths. Within 
linen, there are different categories of customer with varying linen needs: 
 
Accommodation – e.g. hotels, motels, bed and breakfasts. Items include 
pillowcases, flat sheets, doona covers, bedspreads, bath towels, etc.; and 
 
Healthcare and aged care – e.g. hospitals, retirement villages. Items 
include flat sheets, scrubs, sterile theatre packs, patient gowns, etc. 
24. 
Garments are for organisations that require uniforms, such as chefs’ uniforms, 
aprons, coats, pants, tops and industrial overalls. 
Tender and contract processes  
25. 
Most commercial customers of laundry services purchase the services via 
tendering or competitive quote processes. Contracts are typically two to three 
years, often with an option to extend.   
26. 
Some public hospitals and aged care customers use a representative body to 
select a panel of laundry suppliers and negotiate the rates and deliverables. 
27. 
Contracts often do not have contractual penalties for early termination. However, 
many customers rent their linen and garments from the laundry suppliers and 
may have to pay an exit payment for the residual / depreciated value of the linen 
or garments purchased by the supplier. 
Areas of overlap 
28. 
The Parties’ operations overlap in the Adelaide, Brisbane, Canberra1, 
Melbourne, Perth and Sydney areas. There is no local overlap between them in 
the Northern Territory or Tasmania. 
29. 
The ACCC understands that both SPL and Spotless Laundries have and do 
tender for similar contracts across all customer types, although historically they 
tend to focus on particular customer types.  
30. 
The primary area of overlap between the Parties is commercial laundering 
services for linen. Although Spotless Laundries is a major supplier of laundering 
services for garments, SPL currently has a very limited presence in garments in 
only one of the overlap cities.  
Market definition 
Product dimension 
31. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the product dimension of the relevant 
markets is the supply of commercial laundry services. The ACCC acknowledges 
                                                 
 
1 Where the Parties have depots / warehouses, but no processing plants.   


South Pacific Laundry – proposed acquisition of Spotless Laundries 
 
 Page 5 of 18 
that within this market, many suppliers specialise in particular item types and/or 
customer categories. 
Segmentation by customer category and item type 
32. 
The ACCC has considered whether it is appropriate to segment the commercial 
laundry market by: 
 
Linen customer category: i.e. separate markets for linen to different 
customer industries (i.e. accommodation and healthcare / aged care); and 
 
Type of item: i.e. separate markets for (i) linen and (ii) garments. 
33. 
The ACCC’s investigation indicated that suppliers often specialise in either linen 
or garments, and within linen, particular customer categories. There appears to 
be a degree of reluctance or inertia: 
 
from customers, towards switching to laundries that already specialise in 
supplying a different customer category or item type; and 
 
from suppliers, towards moving into or switching between customer 
categories or item types.  
34. 
Despite the somewhat limited historic instances of switching, to define relevant 
markets the ACCC will consider whether customers and suppliers would likely 
switch to other products in response to a price rise or reduction in service quality. 
This involves considering whether:  
 
customers would overcome their reluctance to choosing suppliers new to a 
customer category or item type; and  
 
a supplier’s capacity to produce one product can profitably be switched to 
supply another product quickly and without significant investment. 2 
35. 
The ACCC explored both the circumstances under which customers would 
select suppliers new to their category and the ease or difficulty with which 
laundries can switch between or move into supplying (i) different linen customer 
categories and (ii) linen and garments.  
36. 
The reluctance of customers to select suppliers new to their category appears to 
be driven by concerns about the volume capability and quality of less familiar 
suppliers. At this stage, the ACCC considers that these concerns appear 
capable of being overcome. The ACCC has therefore focussed on the tangible 
technical and equipment cost factors influencing the ability of suppliers to move 
into or switch between categories. 
Linen customer categories 
37. 
The ACCC is considering the extent to which laundries specialising in a given 
customer category can move into or switch from healthcare linen to 
accommodation linen (and vice versa). The ACCC currently considers that aside 
                                                 
 
2 ACCC, Merger Guidelines 2008 (updated 2017), paragraph 4.12 – 4.26. 


South Pacific Laundry – proposed acquisition of Spotless Laundries 
 
 Page 6 of 18 
from some customers’ hesitancy to select suppliers new to a category there are 
no significant technical or equipment cost impediments to doing so as: 
 
The laundry services across different customer types are not 
substantially different. Commercial laundry services for all customer 
categories involve the hire, pick-up, sorting, washing, ironing, folding, and 
delivery of linen. There are, however, some differences in the frequency of 
turnover (as healthcare and aged care facilities require more frequent 
changes), linen quality (as accommodation customers generally require 
higher quality linen than some healthcare and aged care customers, 
although hotel-quality linen is used in certain premium hospitals and aged 
care facilities), specialised cleaning needs or standards (as healthcare and 
aged care facilities may require specialised washes, processes or 
certifications), and product ranges. The different sorting, varied product 
range and standards for healthcare / aged care linen may result in 
additional costs.    
 
The facilities, machinery and logistical capabilities are highly 
transferrable. Suppliers use largely similar equipment to process all types 
of linen with some variations in configuration such as wash cycle / process, 
chemicals and temperature between customer types. Suppliers may use 
additional equipment to better serve particular customer types (for example, 
sterilisation equipment for healthcare customers that require sterile linen),3 
or equipment tailored to industry-specific items (e.g. towels, sheets, 
blankets or scrubs), but such additional equipment does not come at a 
substantial incremental cost to a laundry supplier.  
 
Suppliers can and do supply multiple customer types. For example, 
SPL, Spotless, Princes, Sunfresh, Minda and Elite each process both 
healthcare and accommodation linen – in some cases, using the same 
equipment. 
Linen and garments  
38. 
Similarly, the ACCC is considering the ease or difficulty with which laundries 
specialising in a given item type can move into or switch from linen to garments 
(and vice versa). As with different linen customer categories, the ACCC currently 
considers that aside from a degree of customer hesitancy, there are no 
significant technical or equipment cost impediments to doing so as: 
 
The laundry services for linen and garments are not substantially 
different. Commercial laundry services for linen and garments both involve 
hire, pick-up, sorting, washing, ironing, folding and delivery, although 
garments may require steaming. 
 
Facilities, machinery and logistical capabilities are generally 
transferrable between linen and garments, with some differences. 
Similar, but not identical, equipment is used. Garments require slightly 
different equipment for certain stages of laundering: typically, finishing 
(steaming) equipment, and optionally, folding machines for specific garment 
or linen items (e.g. garments, towels, sheets) for greater efficiency. 
                                                 
 
3 Although the ACCC understands that there is declining demand for laundry providers to offer sterilisation. 


South Pacific Laundry – proposed acquisition of Spotless Laundries 
 
 Page 7 of 18 
Suppliers may also handle garments differently to linen, e.g. by using 
dedicated conveyors and rail systems, and to protect buttons and zips. 
Garments equipment is readily available, and the ACCC’s investigation 
indicates it does not come at a substantial incremental cost to a laundry 
supplier, although it may be relatively costly for some smaller suppliers.   
 
Suppliers can and do supply both linen and garment laundering. For 
example, Spotless, Alsco, and Sunshine process both linen and garments. 
Some of Spotless’ plants process both linen and garments at the same site. 
39. 
Some market feedback indicated that for a linen supplier, switching from linen to 
garments would be more difficult than switching between linen customer types, 
with a greater need to invest in specialised equipment.  
Government-owned laundries 
40. 
The ACCC is aware of Government-owned laundries with large capacity for 
healthcare linen in the Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Canberra areas. The 
ACCC’s preliminary view is that, apart from Capital Linen in Canberra, 
Government-owned laundries primarily service public hospitals. While they may 
compete for a limited number of other customers, this appears to be largely 
limited to servicing a small number of private customers, particularly in regional 
areas where no other suppliers are available.  
41. 
Therefore, Government-owned laundries do not generally appear to be viable 
alternatives to private laundry suppliers (such as the Parties) for non-healthcare, 
private hospital or private aged care facility customers. Additionally, supply to 
public hospitals by Government-owned laundries is generally non-contestable, 
with their supply often operating in a “closed loop” structure which excludes all 
potential private suppliers.   
42. 
Market feedback has suggested that some Government-owned laundries may 
provide a limited degree of competitive constraint in capital cities (and Capital 
Linen provides a significant constraint in Canberra). Relevantly, the ACCC is 
continuing to consider the degree to which supply by Government-owned 
laundries in the Melbourne area may be contestable. 
Conclusion on product dimension  
43. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that, because there are no obvious significant 
impediments from a technical or equipment cost perspective to suppliers 
(excluding Government-owned laundries) moving into other linen customer 
categories and, to a lesser extent, item types, it is appropriate to assess the 
likely effect of the proposed acquisition in a commercial laundry services market 
that encompasses both linen and garments and all customer categories.  
44. 
However, the ACCC will continue to examine the incremental costs of – and any 
barriers to – laundries moving from linen to garments (and vice versa), and from 
accommodation to healthcare / aged care linen (and vice versa) before finalising 
its view on the scope of the relevant product market.  
45. 
Furthermore, as part of its assessment, the ACCC will consider whether the 
proposed acquisition may have heightened competition impacts in particular 
parts of the market (i.e. for a specific customer type). 


South Pacific Laundry – proposed acquisition of Spotless Laundries 
 
 Page 8 of 18 
Geographic dimension 
46. 
The ACCC’s assessment to date has explored whether the relevant geographic 
dimension involves: 
 
city-based markets; and/or 
 
achbroader markets, such as a national market or one or more multi-
regional markets.4 
47. 
The ACCC understands that customers generally use, and seek tender 
proposals from, laundry providers with facilities or depots close to their location, 
which is supportive of primarily city-based markets. Market feedback indicates 
that many customers with national operations procure commercial laundry 
services via tender separately for each area in which they operate. This is 
particularly true for linen, where the Parties primarily overlap. 
48. 
However, the ACCC is also aware that for a subset of customers the choice of 
laundry supplier will take into account the ability of suppliers to provide services 
at a national or multi-regional level. A small number of customers – primarily 
garments customers and certain healthcare customers – that have a presence 
nationally or in multiple areas appeared to prefer to contract with laundry 
providers that can provide services nationally, or across all or most of the areas. 
Such customers may be reluctant to choose providers who only service one or 
two areas, and the ACCC understands this may be motivated by reducing 
contracting and administration costs, access to a single point of contact, 
operational consistency, and the potential to receive volume-based pricing 
benefits.  
49. 
Even in the absence of customers awarding national or multi-state contracts to a 
single supplier, the ACCC understands that some customers value a supplier 
having a national or multi-state presence, with brand, reputation and reliability 
being relevant considerations for many customers. Some customers also appear 
to recognise a laundry’s performance record in other states. In addition, some 
customers consider that suppliers that are well-funded and have multiple 
production facilities, including interstate facilities, are more reliable and less 
exposed if one facility is unexpectedly unavailable. Accordingly, having a 
national or multi-regional footprint appears to be a relevant competitive 
parameter.  
50. 
As such, competition may occur at a national, or at least multi-regional, level as 
well as at a narrower regional level. 
51. 
The ACCC is primarily considering the impact of the proposed acquisition on 
competition within city-based markets, but will also assess the impact on national 
and multi-regional competition. 
                                                 
 
4 The Parties operate in most, but not all, states and territories including metropolitan and regional areas. Nonetheless 
the ACCC considers the Parties have a reputation of having a national brand and footprint.  


South Pacific Laundry – proposed acquisition of Spotless Laundries 
 
 Page 9 of 18 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary views about 
the definition of the relevant market(s). In particular market participants may wish to 
comment on the following: 
 
The extent to which laundry facilities, equipment and logistics capabilities are 
transferrable between linen and garment items, and between customer types. 
 
Specialised equipment and/or services that are required for particular items or 
customer types. 
 
Why laundry suppliers specialise on particular customer types. To what extent is 
specialisation by different suppliers attributable to:  
o the preferences or constraints of laundry customers within each industry 
category – and what, in turn, shapes and influences these preferences?  
o the preferences or constraints of laundry suppliers within each industry 
category – and what, in turn, shapes and influences these preferences? 
 
The extent to which Government-owned laundries are a viable and relevant 
alternative to commercial laundry suppliers. 
 
If you have operations nationally or across multiple states, whether:  
o it is important to use a laundry supplier with a national and/or multi-regional 
presence, including the reasons why (or why not) 
o there are benefits to using a single supplier nationally or in multiple states – 
e.g. transaction costs, more attractive volume-based pricing benefits or 
negotiating power.      
Issues that may raise concerns: loss of competition in 
Adelaide, Sydney, Melbourne and Perth areas  
52. 
The ACCC considers the proposed acquisition may substantially lessen 
competition in the Adelaide, Sydney, Melbourne and Perth areas by removing an 
effective competitor in already-concentrated markets. The merged entity would 
have high market shares in these areas, and the proposed acquisition will 
combine two of the largest commercial laundry suppliers in each area, reducing 
the already-limited number of comparable laundries.5  
53. 
Spotless Laundries and SPL are particularly well-established suppliers with 
brand, scale and reputation. It appears that scale is important in the laundry 
industry and allows suppliers to be more efficient, with new entrants seeking to 
capture these efficiencies facing significant upfront capital and inventory costs, 
and risking a sizeable proportion of those costs if entry does not succeed. Small 
or less-established commercial laundries may not be able to expand to compete 
                                                 
 
5 The ACCC’s preliminary view is that this includes: Minda, Alsco and Princes in the Adelaide area; Lawrence, 
Sunshine, Excellent, Ralph Street and Alsco in the Sydney area; Princes, Alsco, Gouge and Sunfresh in the Melbourne 
area; and Atlas, Brightwater, Elite and Alsco in the Perth area.  


South Pacific Laundry – proposed acquisition of Spotless Laundries 
 
 Page 10 of 18 
on the same level as the Parties due to various barriers to expansion. Customers 
with large time-sensitive volumes appear reluctant to switch to new and 
unfamiliar suppliers who might not have the scale, reliability or reputation to meet 
their needs. 
54. 
Despite SPL’s historic focus on supplying linen to accommodation providers, and 
Spotless Laundries’ historic focus on supplying linen to healthcare customers 
and garments to industrial customers, the ACCC considers that the threat of 
winning each other’s customers may constrain both Parties when setting terms 
for their customers. This tension would be lost if they combine. 
55. 
SPL and Spotless Laundries have both competed for customers outside of their 
historic areas of focus and are considered to be viable suppliers in each other’s 
focus areas. SPL already competes for healthcare / aged care customers in 
multiple cities. Without the acquisition, SPL and Spotless Laundries could further 
expand into each other’s focus areas, compete more closely and increase 
competition. SPL and Spotless Laundries are well-placed to expand into each 
other’s specialisations because:  
 
Knowledge: they have experience in the commercial laundry industry, 
including some experience in both specialisations (supply side); 
 
Resources: they have a number of existing facilities and access to funding 
(to grow organically or via acquisition) and there are no obvious 
impediments (see paragraph 37) (supply side); and 
 
Customer acceptance: SPL and Spotless Laundries have an existing 
reputation based on performance in their respective specialisations (see 
paragraph 53 above) (demand side). 
56. 
The ACCC therefore considers that SPL and Spotless Laundries are important 
constraints on each other as actual and potential suppliers to each other’s 
customers.  
57. 
Some customers perceive that they have few or no alternatives to SPL and 
Spotless. For these customers, a limited number of suppliers in their geographic 
area stand out as being comparable to SPL or Spotless. Following this 
Statement of Issues, the ACCC intends to gather further information about the 
constraint provided by other commercial laundry providers and their ability to 
expand.  
Market shares and concentration  
58. 
As stated in the ACCC’s Merger Guidelines, market concentration refers to the 
number and size of participants in the market. It provides a snapshot of market 
structure as well as an estimate of the size of the Parties, which can assist when 
considering the other merger factors. The ACCC typically measures 
concentration with reference to market shares, concentration ratios and the 
Herfindahl-Hirschman Index (HHI).6 
                                                 
 
6 ACCC, Merger Guidelines 2008 (updated 2017), paragraph 7.6 – 7.16. 


South Pacific Laundry – proposed acquisition of Spotless Laundries 
 
 Page 11 of 18 
59. 
SPL or Spotless Laundries are already the largest, or one of the largest, 
commercial laundry suppliers in the Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Perth 
areas. Based on the ACCC’s market share estimates, the merged entity will 
become the outright market leader with a combined market share in the 
commercial laundry market of 50-60% in the Adelaide area, and between 30-
40% in each of the Sydney, Melbourne and Perth areas.7  
60. 
The ACCC has calculated the HHI, a measure of market concentration which 
provides a useful summary statistic, for the broader commercial laundry market8 
for each overlap area. The ACCC generally identifies competition concerns when 
the post-merger HHI is greater than 2000, or less than 2000 with a change in 
HHI (delta) greater than 100.9 The ACCC estimates that: 
 
the post-merger HHI would be above 2,000 in the Sydney, Melbourne and 
Perth areas, and above 3,000 in the Adelaide area; and 
 
the change in HHI (delta) is greater than 100, with a change in HHI (delta) 
of between 450 and 900 in the Sydney, Melbourne and Perth areas and 
above 1,000 in the Adelaide area.  
Loss of current and potential future competition  
61. 
SPL submits that the parties are not close competitors as SPL’s volumes are 
primarily in accommodation and Spotless Laundries’ volumes are primarily in 
healthcare.  
62. 
The ACCC considers that SPL and Spotless Laundries exercise an important 
competitive constraint on each other – both through actual supply to customers 
and as a potential supplier – given the concentrated nature of the market and 
limited number of similar suppliers in each relevant geographic area.  
63. 
SPL and Spotless Laundries are already seen by some customers as actual or 
potential alternatives within each other’s area of focus. SPL has won new 
healthcare / aged care laundry customers in recent years, including in 
competition with Spotless Laundries. Some market participants see SPL as an 
important alternative to Spotless Laundries. Market feedback also indicated 
some concern that the proposed acquisition could remove SPL as a potential 
supplier in the garment category.  
64. 
The ACCC accepts that there are some barriers to SPL moving from 
accommodation to healthcare linen, as discussed in paragraph 37 above. 
However, we understand these costs are relatively small and may be offset by 
the scale efficiencies that SPL would derive from the increased volumes that 
diversification enables. We note that laundry suppliers can and do service 
different customer categories with only moderate changes to their operations. 
For instance, in the healthcare sector, some alternative suppliers such as 
Princes and Sunfresh have achieved varying degrees of success diversifying 
between accommodation and healthcare customers.  
                                                 
 
7 Note that these shares would not reflect any recent contract wins or losses.  
8 In line with the ACCC’s preliminary views on market definition, these calculations reflect volumes of linen and 
garments across all customer industry types but exclude government-owned laundries except for Capital Linen in 
Canberra. 
9 ACCC, Merger Guidelines 2008 (updated 2017), paragraph 7.14.  


South Pacific Laundry – proposed acquisition of Spotless Laundries 
 
 Page 12 of 18 
65. 
SPL and Spotless Laundries are also well-placed to expand into different 
customer types given their scale, established national reputation and resources 
that sets them apart from almost all other suppliers. Without the proposed 
acquisition, SPL could further expand its historically limited presence in both 
healthcare / aged care and garments. The proposed acquisition also removes 
the possibility of Spotless Laundries competing more closely with SPL for 
accommodation customers. The ACCC is concerned that the proposed 
acquisition will remove the possibility of SPL and Spotless Laundries competing 
more closely in the future for certain customer types. 
66. 
The ACCC considers that the decline in accommodation laundry volumes as a 
consequence of the COVID-19 pandemic may accelerate suppliers’ expansion 
into different customer categories. The ACCC is continuing to consider how 
much spare capacity is likely to linger, and for how long, and the impact of this 
spare capacity on the way SPL and other laundry suppliers may compete to win 
healthcare and aged care customers.  
There are a limited number of viable alternative suppliers  
67. 
Table 1 below shows the ACCC’s understanding of where the main alternative 
providers compete in those areas where the ACCC has identified potential 
competition concerns.  
Table 1: Commercial laundry suppliers by area10  
                                                 
 
10 The ACCC has listed commercial laundry suppliers who have been highlighted in its market inquiries to date. The 
ACCC is aware of other smaller suppliers not listed in this table.  
11 Note that the shares would not reflect any recent contract wins or losses. 
Supplier 
Adelaide 
Perth 
Sydney 
Melbourne 
SPL 
 
 
 
 
Spotless 
 
 
 
 
Estimated 
combined market 
share11 
50-60% 
30-40% 
30-40% 
30-40% 
Alsco 
 
 
 
 
Atlas 
 
 
 
 
Brightwater 
 
 
 
 
Elite 
 
 
 
 
Excellent 
 
 
 
 
Ralph Street 
 
 
 
 
Gouge 
 
 
 
 
Lawrence 
 
 
 
 
Minda 
 
 
 
 
Princes 
 
 
 
 
Sunfresh 
 
 
 
 
Sunshine 
 
 
 
 


South Pacific Laundry – proposed acquisition of Spotless Laundries 
 
 Page 13 of 18 
68. 
These alternative suppliers are limited in number and generally impose varying 
degrees of competitive constraint in each area. Market inquiries to date have 
provided mixed views on whether there are sufficient comparable alternatives in 
each geographic area. For example in:  
 
Sydney: Lawrence, Sunshine, Excellent and Ralph St primarily focus on 
accommodation customers. Market feedback suggests Alsco has a greater 
presence in regional NSW focusing on garments and hospitality customers 
while Excellent and Ralph St may focus on smaller customer requirements.  
 
Melbourne: Princes is considered an important supplier and operates 
across both accommodation and healthcare linen, with Sunfresh having a 
presence in accommodation linen. Market feedback suggests that Alsco is 
a large supplier in Melbourne, focusing primarily on hospitality and 
garments customers, while Gouge generally focuses on smaller non-
metropolitan healthcare customers.   
 
Adelaide: Market feedback suggests that Princes currently has a limited 
presence in Adelaide having only recently established operations in the last 
few years. Minda primarily focuses on healthcare and is considered an 
important supplier, while Alsco appears to focus on garments and 
hospitality customers.  
 
Perth: Atlas, Brightwater and Elite primarily focus on accommodation 
customers. Brightwater may also service a number of small aged care 
facilities but not hospitals, while Alsco focuses on garments and hospitality 
customers.  
69. 
The ACCC considers that there are certain characteristics of larger or 
established suppliers in each area (including SPL and Spotless Laundries) that 
may provide a competitive advantage over smaller suppliers, particularly in 
relation to their ability to compete for larger customers. Established scale 
competitors typically possess: 
 
High laundering capacity. Large laundering capacity reduces customer 
concentration risk as the supplier can diversify its customer base across 
multiple large contracts.  
 
Greater funding capacity, including to purchase linen upfront. It is 
industry standard for suppliers to purchase large volumes of linen prior to 
delivering service. The larger the customer’s volume requirement, the 
higher the upfront spend needed for linen inventory which may be too risky 
for smaller suppliers to accept. Larger suppliers also receive more 
attractive wholesale linen rates by utilising their purchasing scale. 
 
Established brand, reliability, reputation and scale. Larger competitors 
may be set apart by their established brand, reliability, reputation and scale. 
This may be particularly important for healthcare / aged care customers, for 
whom linen is a business-critical item subject to more stringent standards. 
Larger competitors may be perceived as more reliable, due to having 
established continuity plans to ensure security of supply (e.g. through 
arrangements with alternative suppliers or the ability to reallocate capacity 
across multiple plants).   


South Pacific Laundry – proposed acquisition of Spotless Laundries 
 
 Page 14 of 18 
70. 
While smaller suppliers may theoretically be able to provide the same 
commercial laundry service, they may lack the requisite scale, capacity and 
funding, and may also be less willing to accept large customers due to customer 
concentration risk.  
71. 
The ACCC understands that there are customers that therefore seek laundry 
providers with significant scale or reputation, and are unwilling to consider 
smaller suppliers. The larger suppliers such as the Parties can and do supply 
both small and large volume commercial customers, but smaller or regional 
laundries may be less likely to service large volume customers for the reasons 
above.   
72. 
Relevantly, market feedback suggests that splitting volumes across separate 
contracts, including within a state, can expand the pool of potential suppliers. 
However, there are disadvantages such as adverse impacts on costs from lower 
contracted volumes and increased negotiation and contract management costs 
due to the higher administration workload.   
73. 
Overall, the ACCC considers that there are a small number of competitors of a 
similar standing to the parties, namely Alsco (whose specialisation indicates it is 
more relevant to garments rather than linen, the primary area of overlap) 
nationally, Princes and Sunfresh for certain areas, and Lawrence and Minda in 
single areas. The ACCC is continuing to explore the extent to which smaller 
suppliers will provide a competitive constraint on the merged entity. This will be a 
focus of market inquiries following this Statement of Issues. The ACCC is also 
continuing to consider the degree to which some alternative suppliers may 
constrain the merged entity via their existing excess capacity, or the ability to 
expand in future.  
74. 
The ACCC’s concerns are primarily in relation to metropolitan customers. The 
ACCC is also continuing to investigate to what extent regional (non-metropolitan) 
suppliers are considered alternative suppliers to SPL and Spotless Laundries. It 
appears that due to large distances from metropolitan-based processing plants, 
regional customers may rely primarily on regional-focused suppliers, small local 
suppliers or low-capacity in-house laundries. In some instances, SPL or Spotless 
Laundries may sub-contract to regional suppliers to service non-metropolitan 
demand.  
75. 
Consistent with the ‘Market definition’ above, the ACCC does not consider the 
Government-owned laundries in Sydney or Melbourne12 are viable alternatives 
to the Parties in most cases. The ACCC notes: 
 
Market feedback suggests that the charters for publicly-funded institutions 
generally do not contemplate significant tendering for private contracts. 
There may be limited circumstances where a government-owned laundry 
could supply private healthcare customers, such as those in regional or 
remote locations, where there are little to no private commercial laundry 
services.  
 
While there appears to be a number of government-owned laundries in 
Victoria, such as Warragul Linen Services, these focus primarily on 
                                                 
 
12 The ACCC is not aware of any remaining Government-owned laundries in the Adelaide or Perth areas. 


South Pacific Laundry – proposed acquisition of Spotless Laundries 
 
 Page 15 of 18 
supplying linen services to public hospitals located in regional or remote 
locations where there are little to no private commercial laundry services.  
 
HealthShare is the New South Wales state-owned laundry supplier and 
appears to focus primarily on supplying linen services to public hospitals.  
Barriers to entry and expansion  
76. 
The ACCC considers there are barriers to entry and expansion within each area. 
Despite these barriers, there are some instances of entry into new areas 
particularly by existing laundry providers. 
77. 
There appears to be significant capital costs involved in setting up a brand new 
laundry business to enter a particular area. While small-scale entry at a 30 to 50 
tonne per week capacity may incur capital costs of a few million dollars (or less if 
second-hand equipment can be sourced), the cost of developing a plant that 
captures the available economies of scale is considerably higher.  
78. 
For example, a modern plant of several hundred tonnes per week capacity 
exhibits considerably lower per unit capital costs (on a per tonne of laundry per 
week basis) than a small-scale plant. Therefore, to ensure sufficient scale to 
both harness the majority of available plant cost efficiencies and be capable of 
competing for the highest-volume customers against large suppliers such as 
SPL and Spotless Laundries, it seems necessary to enter with a size of plant 
well above the technical minimum.  
79. 
The ACCC understands that the initial capital costs of a greenfield facility of a 
scale that would maximise plant cost efficiencies would be in excess of ten 
million dollars, with a sizeable proportion of these costs unrecoverable or ‘sunk’ 
once incurred.  
80. 
In addition, it can be risky to enter interstate without a prior commitment for 
customer volumes or by acquiring an existing provider; at the same time, winning 
contracts with new customers without having an existing facility in a particular 
area appears to be rare. Therefore, entering interstate on a greenfield basis 
often appears unattractive due to the combination of the sunk costs and risks 
involved. 
81. 
The existing laundry suppliers within a particular area may feasibly expand 
throughput by increasing the number of hours its machines operate. 
Alternatively, the laundry supplier can install additional machines if there is 
available floor space. 
82. However, as discussed at paragraph 33 above, there appears to be a degree of 
inertia or ‘stickiness’ in customers’ willingness to switch laundry suppliers, 
especially to one that is relatively new to a geographic area or customer type. 
The ACCC considers this reluctance typically stems from customer reservations 
about the scale, reliability and quality of service offered by a new or unfamiliar 
supplier. The ACCC accepts that it may also reflect that a customer is satisfied 
with their current supplier.  
83. 
The ACCC is continuing to consider the barriers to entry for laundry providers to 
enter into a new area, and the barriers to expansion of existing facilities within an 


South Pacific Laundry – proposed acquisition of Spotless Laundries 
 
 Page 16 of 18 
area, and the effect of the proposed acquisition on barriers to entry and 
expansion. 
Customers lack countervailing power 
84. 
The ACCC accepts that there are customers who in-house their laundry service 
requirements or have switched to in-house laundering rather than outsourcing 
their laundry services. However, the ACCC understands that doing in-house 
linen laundry is generally not a feasible alternative to using an external laundry 
supplier due to high costs. Customers also appear to consider laundry services 
as a non-core operation with high operating costs, resulting in a general trend 
towards using external laundry suppliers.   
85. 
In-house laundry processes are primarily on a much smaller scale, with some 
sites in-housing laundry services due to legacy processes, as a back-up option 
or due to their remote location.   
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to the 
reduction in competition for the supply of commercial laundry services in the 
overlapping city-based markets (the Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Perth areas). In 
particular market participants may wish to comment on the following: 
For customers of commercial laundry services  
 
The extent to which SPL and Spotless Laundries compete with and constrain each 
other in each area – both currently and in the future.  
 
Whether there are viable alternatives to SPL and Spotless Laundries (for all or 
some areas and/or customer types). 
 
Whether you are reluctant to use suppliers new to a linen customer category or 
item type and if so, whether this is due to concerns about supplier scale, reliability 
and quality. How difficult would it be for such suppliers to overcome these and any 
other relevant concerns? 
 
Whether regional or smaller suppliers are viable alternatives to large or established 
suppliers like SPL and Spotless, and why. 
 
Whether large or established suppliers have a competitive advantage over smaller 
suppliers, and why. 
 
The ease of switching between laundry suppliers.   
For commercial laundry suppliers 
 
The key reasons why suppliers may focus on a particular customer category (or 
categories). In particular: 
o Does customer hesitancy to select laundry suppliers new to a linen 
customer or item type category deter suppliers from expanding the range of 
their services?  
o Are there other significant impediments to serving different linen customer 
categories or item types and if so, what (e.g. differences in the nature or 


South Pacific Laundry – proposed acquisition of Spotless Laundries 
 
 Page 17 of 18 
quality of services, processes, equipment and logistical capabilities)? 
 
Any barriers to entry or expansion, both generally as well as into new regions or 
customer categories. 
 
The impacts of COVID-19 on your operations, and whether it is feasible to switch 
output to meet demand from healthcare / aged care customers. 
 
The relevance of scale to a supplier’s competitiveness.  
 
The relevance of new automation technology to improve efficiencies and enable 
potentially more attractive pricing.   
Issue that may raise concerns: reduced competition 
nationally or across multiple regions 
86. 
The ACCC is considering whether the proposed acquisition may substantially 
lessen competition at a national or multi-regional level by combining two of the 
largest commercial laundry suppliers nationally. 
87. 
The large-scale laundry suppliers operating in all mainland states are SPL, 
Spotless Laundries and Alsco. Princes, a multi-state player with a moderate 
presence, is not active in NSW or WA, while Sunfresh is another multi-state 
supplier with a presence in Queensland, NSW and Victoria only.   
88. 
As discussed in paragraphs 48 to 50 above, the ACCC’s investigation has 
shown that there may be a subset of commercial laundry customers that value 
the national or multi-regional supply arrangements, or prefer to engage suppliers 
with a national or multi-regional footprint.  
89. 
The ACCC’s market inquiries to date suggest that this group of customers 
appears to primarily comprise of garments customers and certain healthcare 
linen customers. While ‘national’ customers have not expressed concerns about 
the proposed acquisition, as SPL is one of only three large laundry suppliers with 
a presence across most states, the transaction removes any current competitive 
tension from SPL’s national presence, and the possibility of national or multi-
regional customers switching to SPL.  
90. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is therefore that a national or multi-regional 
dimension to competition cannot be ruled out, and a reduction in the number of 
suppliers with a multi-regional and/or national presence could raise competition 
concerns. The ACCC is still considering the extent to which any national or multi-
regional customers could respond to an attempt by the merged-entity to raise 
prices or reduce quality by reverting to multiple regional suppliers.  


South Pacific Laundry – proposed acquisition of Spotless Laundries 
 
 Page 18 of 18 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to the 
reduction in competition for the supply of commercial laundry services nationally or 
across multiple regions. In particular market participants may wish to comment on the 
following: 
 
The questions noted above for regional markets but with respect to a national or 
multi-regional market or markets.  
 
For customers that prefer a national or multi-regional supplier, whether there are 
viable alternatives to SPL and Spotless Laundries for national or multi-regional 
contracts, including regional or smaller suppliers, and why or why not. 
Issues unlikely to raise concerns: loss of competition in 
Brisbane and Canberra areas 
91. 
In the Brisbane and Canberra areas, the Parties would have an estimated 
combined share of under 20% of the commercial laundry market. The Parties are 
not currently, and would not become, the largest suppliers in either area, with 
Sunfresh and Princes having a strong presence in Brisbane and Capital Linen, 
Alsco and Prestige Linen having a strong presence in Canberra. In both areas, 
the proposed acquisition would result in only a modest increase in concentration. 
In the ACCC’s market inquiries to date, limited concerns were raised about 
competition in these areas.  
92. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to 
substantially lessen competition in the supply of commercial laundry services in 
the Brisbane or Canberra areas.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants about its preliminary views on 
whether or not the proposed acquisition is likely to substantially lessen competition in 
commercial laundry services in the Brisbane or Canberra areas. 
ACCC's future steps 
93. 
As noted above, the ACCC invites submissions from market participants on each 
of the issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that 
may be relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. Submissions should 
be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au by no later than 5pm on Friday, 
18 September 2020. 
94. 
The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
95. 
The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by Thursday, 
26 November 2020. However the anticipated timeline may change in line with 
the Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines. A Public Competition 
Assessment explaining the ACCC's final view may be published following the 
ACCC's public announcement. 
 
