 
Page 1 of 20 
 
 
Statement of Issues 
3 July 2014 
Aquis - proposed acquisition of the Reef Casino 
Introduction 
1. 
Outlined below is the Statement of Issues released by the Australian 
Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) on the proposed acquisition by 
subsidiaries of Aquis Reef Holdings (Aus) Pty Ltd (together with its related 
bodies corporate, Aquis) of: 
a. all the units in the ASX-listed Reef Casino Trust  
b. all of the issued shares in Reef Corporate Services Limited (the Reef 
responsible entity) and Casinos Austria International (Cairns) Pty Ltd (the 
Reef operator) 
(together, the proposed acquisition). 
2. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well 
as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
3. 
In line with the ACCC’s Merger Review Process Guidelines (at 
www.accc.gov.au/processguidelines) the ACCC has established a secondary 
timeline for further consideration of the issues. The ACCC anticipates completing 
further market inquiries by 17 July 2014 and anticipates making a final decision 
on 21 August 2014. However, the anticipated timeline can change in line with the 
Merger Review Process Guidelines. To keep abreast of possible changes in 
relation to timing and to find relevant documents, market participants should visit 
the Mergers Register on the ACCC's website at 
www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
4. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 


Aquis Group - proposed acquisition of the Reef Casino Trust 
 
 
Page 2 of 20 
 
Background 
5. 
The ACCC commenced its public review of the proposed acquisition on 9 April 
2014. 
The merger parties and other industry participants 
Aquis  
6. 
Aquis is a privately held company ultimately wholly owned by Mr Tony Fung, a 
Hong Kong resident private investor.  
7. 
Aquis currently has no existing interests in casinos in Australia.  
8. 
In October 2013, the Premier of Queensland announced the government's 
intention to seek formal expressions of interest for up to two integrated resort 
developments (including a casino licence for any successful proponents) in 
regional Queensland (the Queensland Government bid process). 
9. 
On 28 March 2014, Aquis submitted a formal Expression of Interest as part of 
the Queensland Government bid process to develop an integrated resort and 
casino (the Aquis Resort) at Yorkeys Knob, approximately 15 km north of the 
Reef Hotel Casino in the Cairns CBD. 
10. 
On 27 May 2014, the Queensland Government announced that the Aquis Resort 
was one of two short-listed projects in its bid process.1 The Queensland 
Government announced that the Aquis Resort and the other short-listed project 
would both be able to receive a casino licence if its “project proceeded and met 
all the necessary environmental, planning and gaming licencing approvals”2. The 
Queensland Government expects to make a final decision on whether the Aquis 
Resort will receive a casino licence in 2015. 
11. 
Subject to appropriate approvals being obtained, Aquis expects the Aquis Resort 
to open in 2018. 
12. 
Aquis has sought approval for approximately 750 gaming tables and 1500 
gaming machines at the resort. If it proceeds, the resort will also include: 
a. eight luxury hotels with a total of 7500 rooms 
b. 10 000m2 of high-end retail shopping 
c. an aquarium 
d. two 600 seat theatres 
e. an 18 hole championship golf course 
                                                 
 
 
1 The other short-listed project is by ASF Consortium Pty Ltd for an integrated resort and casino in 
Broadwater on the Gold Coast. 
2 See the media statement of the Deputy Premier, Minister for State Development, Infrastructure and 
Planning, the Honourable Jeff Seeney, at http://statements.qld.gov.au/Statement/2014/5/27/aquis-and-
asf-shortlisted-to-develop-integrated-resorts  


Aquis Group - proposed acquisition of the Reef Casino Trust 
 
 
Page 3 of 20 
 
f. a 25 000m2 convention and exhibition centre 
g. a cultural heritage centre.3 
Reef Casino Trust 
13. 
The Reef Hotel Casino (Reef Casino) is a combination hotel and casino 
complex in Cairns, Queensland. It has: 
a. 128 hotel rooms 
b. 38 gaming tables (offering Blackjack, Roulette, Mini and Midi Baccarat, 
Reef Routine, Paradise Pontoon, Sic-Bo, and the Money Wheel) 
c. one electronic table game (Rapid Roulette) 
d. 519 gaming machines 
e. a VIP gaming room 
f. TAB and Keno 
g. dining, bars, entertainment and conference facilities. 
14. 
Ownership and operation of the Reef Casino is divided between three entities: 
a. The Reef operator, which is the lessee of the Reef Casino building and 
operator of the Reef Casino business. This entity operates the day-to-day 
management of the complex, including both the casino and the hotel.  
b. The Reef Casino Trust, an ASX listed unit trust that owns the Reef Casino 
building, including plant and equipment, and also holds the relevant casino 
licence.  
c. The Reef responsible entity, which is the responsible entity / trustee for the 
Reef Casino Trust. 
15. 
Over 70% of the units in the Reef Casino Trust are held by two unitholders – 
Casinos Austria International Limited and Accor Casino Investments (Australia) 
Pty Ltd (and their respective related bodies corporate). These two companies 
also jointly own the Reef responsible entity and the Reef operator. 
Other industry participants 
16. 
There are 13 casinos in Australia. Most, if not all of these casinos are integrated 
entertainment complexes, featuring restaurants, conference facilities and hotels.  
17. 
The PricewaterhouseCoopers Independent Expert’s Report in respect of the 
proposed acquisition (the Independent Expert’s Report)4 states that the 
                                                 
 
 
3 
http://eisdocs.dsdip.qld.gov.au/Active%20Projects/Aquis%20Resort%20at%20the%20Great%20Barrier
%20Reef/EIS/Aquis%20EIS_DIGITAL_Chapter%204.pdf  
4 The Independent Expert’s Report is Attachment 1 to the Reef Casino’s Target’s Statement issued in 
response to Aquis’ bid for the Reef Casino Trust at 
http://media.reefcasino.com.au/d/reefcasino/media/Pdfs/Targets_Statement_ASX_lodgement.pdf 


Aquis Group - proposed acquisition of the Reef Casino Trust 
 
 
Page 4 of 20 
 
Australian casino industry is expected to generate $5.6 billion in total revenues in 
FY2014
5. Over the following five years through to FY2019, casino industry 
revenue is forecast to grow by 2.9% annually, reaching $6.4 billion in FY2019
6. 
18. 
Table 1 below summarises details of existing Australian casinos. 
Table 1  – Summary of existing Australian casinos7 
Casino 
Opened 
Ownership 
Location 
Tables 
Machines 
Hotel 
Rooms 
Alice Springs 
Casino 
1982 
Lasseters 
Holdings 
Alice 
Springs 
21 
188 
75 
Canberra 
Casino 
1992 
Casinos 
Austria 
International 
Limited 
Canberra 
38 
- 
- 
Country Club 
Casino 
1982 
Mulawa 
Holdings 
Launceston 
25 
315 
104 
Crown 
Melbourne 
1997 
Crown Resorts 
Melbourne 
500 
2,500 
1,604 
Crown Perth 
1985 
Crown Resorts 
Perth 
245 
2,100 
686 
Jupiters Gold 
Coast 
1985 
Echo 
Entertainment 
Gold Coast 
93 
1,426 
594 
Jupiters 
Townsville 
1986 
Colonial 
Leisure Group 
Townsville 
26 
333 
194 
Reef Casino 
1996 
Reef Casino 
Trust 
Cairns 
38 
519 
128 
Skycity 
Adelaide 
1985 
Sky City 
Entertainment 
Adelaide 
90 
995  
- 
Sky city 
Darwin 
1979 
Sky City 
Entertainment 
Darwin 
33 
750 
54 
The Star 
1997 
Echo 
Entertainment 
Sydney 
300 
1,500 
650 
Treasury 
Casino 
1995 
Echo 
Entertainment 
Brisbane 
861 
360 
130 
Wrest Point 
Hotel Casino 
1973 
Mulawa 
Holdings 
Hobart 
30 
490 
280 
Crown Resorts Limited (Crown) 
19. 
Crown operates in the gaming and entertainment industry primarily in Australia. 
It currently owns two casinos in Australia: Crown Melbourne and Crown Perth. 
Crown is the largest casino operator in Australia with over 50% of total Australian 
casino revenues. It has also recently entered into an agreement with the New 
South Wales Government to develop a new integrated casino resort at 
Barangaroo in New South Wales which will focus on VIPs. 
                                                 
 
 
5 Page 22 of the Independent Expert’s Report. 
6 Ibis world, as quoted at page 24 of the Independent Export’s Report. These figures do not include any 
revenues associated with the Aquis Resort. 
7 Reproduced from page 23 of the Independent Expert’s Report. 


Aquis Group - proposed acquisition of the Reef Casino Trust 
 
 
Page 5 of 20 
 
Echo Entertainment Group Limited (Echo) 
20. 
Echo owns the Star (NSW), Jupiters and Treasury (QLD) casinos, and in 
January 2014 sold Jupiters Townsville to Colonial Leisure Group. Echo earns 
over 32% of total Australian casino revenues. 
The transaction 
21. 
On 24 March 2014, Aquis made a public off-market offer to acquire all the units 
in the ASX-listed Reef Casino Trust from its current unitholders for a total 
purchase price of $216.9 million. 
22. 
Aquis is also acquiring all of the issued shares in the Reef responsible entity (for 
$12.6 million) and the Reef operator (for $30.9 million), from their current 
shareholders.  
23. 
As a result of the proposed acquisition, Aquis would become the owner and 
operator of the Reef Hotel Casino. 
24. 
Casinos Austria International Limited is also selling its other Australian casino 
operation – Casino Canberra – to Aquis for $8.9 million. The acquisition of 
Casino Canberra is conditional on the acquisition of the Reef Casino.  
Market inquiries 
25. 
On 9 April 2014, the ACCC commenced market inquiries regarding the proposed 
acquisition. The ACCC has received information from a number of interested 
parties and is now calling for further information to assist with its investigation.  
The future with and without the proposed acquisition 
26. 
Section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the Act) prohibits 
mergers or acquisitions that would have the effect or be likely to have the effect 
of substantially lessening competition in a market. In assessing a proposed 
acquisition pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC considers the effects of 
the acquisition by comparing the likely future competitive environment post-
acquisition if the acquisition proceeds (the “with” position) to the likely future 
competitive environment if the acquisition does not proceed (the “without” 
position) to determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to substantially 
lessen competition in any relevant market. 
27. 
On the basis of the information available to it, the ACCC considers that: 
a. In the future with the proposed acquisition, the Reef Casino and the 
Aquis Resort (if the development of the resort proceeds) would operate 
under common ownership 
b. In the future without the proposed acquisition, the Reef Casino is likely 
to continue operating under its current ownership (or under the 
ownership of an alternative purchaser), regardless of whether the Aquis 
Resort proceeds. 
The Reef Casino 
28. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that without the proposed acquisition the Reef 
Casino would be likely to continue to operate either under its current ownership 
or under the ownership of another non-Aquis operator. However the ACCC 
received submissions during the course of market inquiries suggesting that 


Aquis Group - proposed acquisition of the Reef Casino Trust 
 
 
Page 6 of 20 
 
Cairns could not sustain two commercially viable casinos. As a result of this 
material, the ACCC is considering the likely impact of the Aquis Resort on the 
Reef Casino’s ongoing viability. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary view 
regarding the operation and viability of the Reef Casino if the proposed acquisition 
does not proceed. In commenting on these issues, market participants may wish to 
consider: 
1) 
The Reef Casino’s current financial circumstances 
2) 
The types of customers that visit the Reef Casino, or that would visit the Reef 
Casino in the future, and whether those customers would instead be likely to visit 
the Aquis Resort once it opened 
3) 
The population of Cairns, the expected number of tourists that would travel to 
Cairns in the future if the Aquis Resort were developed, and how many of those 
tourists would be likely to visit the Reef Casino. 
The Aquis Resort 
29. 
Before the Aquis Resort can be developed, it needs to obtain various regulatory 
approvals, including: 
a. A casino licence from the Queensland Government as part of its bid 
process 
b. Various probity and other regulatory approvals relating to the resort from 
the Queensland Office of Liquor and Gaming Regulation 
c. Environmental approvals from state and federal governments 
d. Local planning approvals. 
30. 
The ACCC notes there is a degree of uncertainty inherent in the Aquis Resort 
proposal. The Aquis Resort would be of a scale that is unprecedented in 
Australia, and the viability of an ambitious project of this scale may be less 
certain than a smaller project would be. There is also some uncertainty as to 
whether wealthy Chinese patrons will visit the Aquis Resort in such numbers as 
Aquis hopes. 
31. 
Aquis has told the ACCC that the Aquis Resort will not be developed in the 
absence of the proposed acquisition, because: 
a. Aquis needs to obtain finance for its resort - the first phase of the first stage 
of the Aquis Resort is estimated to cost approximately $4 billion to 
construct. Aquis has told the ACCC that it is unlikely to be able to raise 
sufficient funds from debt and/or capital markets to construct the Aquis 
Resort in the absence of the proposed acquisition. 
b. Aquis needs to use the existing Reef Casino as a platform from which to 
develop its profile with its intended customers (predominantly international 
VIPs), and train its workforce, while the Aquis Resort is being constructed. 


Aquis Group - proposed acquisition of the Reef Casino Trust 
 
 
Page 7 of 20 
 
32. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view, based on the information presently available, is 
that the Aquis Resort is likely to be developed (in the sense of being a realistic 
commercial proposition) with or without the proposed acquisition. In reaching this 
view, the ACCC has taken into account factors including that: 
a. Aquis is investing significant funds in the proposed development and clearly 
intends to build it, subject to regulatory approvals being received on 
commercial terms. 
b. Aquis holds an option to acquire the land on which it plans to build the 
resort. 
c. As discussed above at paragraph 10, the Queensland Government has 
included the Aquis resort in a shortlist of two developments for the award of 
up to two casino licences as part of the Queensland Government bid 
process. 
d. Aquis has commenced the process of seeking regulatory approvals – it has 
released an Environmental Impact Statement for public consultation.8 
33. 
The ACCC understands that the proposed acquisition may provide Aquis with 
certain advantages in developing the Aquis Resort. However, the ACCC’s 
preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is not necessarily essential to 
Aquis obtaining finance for the development of the resort, or the successful 
promotion and opening of the resort. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary view 
regarding the likelihood of the Aquis Resort being developed. In particular, market 
participants may wish to comment on: 
1) 
The likelihood of the Aquis Resort receiving a casino licence as a result of the 
Queensland Government bid process, and the conditions on which any licence 
may be issued 
2) 
Any commercial, legislative, economic, regulatory, demographic or other 
impediments to the Aquis Resort being developed 
3) 
Whether and how the proposed acquisition might affect the likelihood of the 
Aquis Resort being developed, including but not limited to: 
          a)    Whether Aquis would be able to secure finance (through debt and/or capital 
markets) to develop the Aquis Resort if it did not acquire the Reef Casino 
          b)    Whether the Aquis Resort is likely to be commercially successful if it is not 
able to make use of the Reef Casino to help develop an international profile 
and experienced workforce while the Aquis Resort is being constructed. 
                                                 
 
 
8 Available at http://www.dsdip.qld.gov.au/assessments-and-approvals/projects-environmental-impact-
statement.html  


Aquis Group - proposed acquisition of the Reef Casino Trust 
 
 
Page 8 of 20 
 
Industry background 
Types of customers 
34. 
Casinos typically distinguish between lower stake customers (typically from 
average or lower income levels) and various levels of more affluent customers 
who gamble at higher stake levels. For this Statement of Issues, the ACCC uses 
the following terminology: 
a. VIP customers are customers that receive a valuable incentive to gamble 
with a casino such as complimentary accommodation, complimentary 
domestic or international airfares, and cash rebates for losses. VIP 
customers receive these incentives because of the amounts that they are 
willing to gamble at the casino; the greater the amount that the patron is 
willing to gamble, the more incentives they may receive. The ACCC 
understands that customers willing to place bets of $20,000 would be 
considered to be low-end VIPs, receiving relatively modest incentives. 
In addition to these incentives, casinos also offer distinct VIP areas with 
higher monetary risk for table gaming for VIP customers. 
Other terms used in the industry to refer to customers of this type include 
‘premium’ customers or ‘high-rollers’ (for higher spending VIPs).  
The ACCC understands that a significant proportion of the VIP customers 
that visit Australian casinos are not Australian residents. These customers 
may travel to Australia for the express purpose of visiting a casino. 
A sophisticated industry of third-party “junket” operators has evolved to 
facilitate interactions between VIP customers and casinos. These junket 
operators connect VIP customers with casinos, provide VIP customers with 
credit and handle debt collection, and provide other ancillary services to 
VIP customers, in return for a commission from casinos. 
b. Customers other than VIP customers are referred to as mass customers. 
Other terms used in the industry to refer to customers of this type include 
‘non-VIP’ or ‘grind’ customers. 
35. 
While the ACCC has adopted these terms based on its understanding of industry 
usage, it notes that these are not standard terms, and terminology is applied 
differently by different casino operators. Further, there may be significant 
differences between the amounts gambled by different customers within either of 
these categories. For example, ‘mass customers’ includes a wide spectrum of 
customers, ranging between: 
a. patrons making bets at or around the minimum table stakes (referred to in 
this Statement of Issues as lower stake mass customers) 
b. wealthy patrons who are willing to bet thousands of dollars during a visit to 
a casino, but are unwilling to bet the significantly larger amounts required to 
become VIPs (referred to in this Statement of Issues as higher stake 
mass customers). 


Aquis Group - proposed acquisition of the Reef Casino Trust 
 
 
Page 9 of 20 
 
Legislative framework 
36. 
A casino can only be operated in Queensland with a licence issued by the 
Queensland Government in accordance with the requirements of the Casino 
Control Act 1982 (Qld) (Casino Control Act).  
37. 
Under the terms of the Casino Control Act, the Queensland Government has a 
broad discretion in deciding whether to issue a new casino licence and various 
statutory criteria must be satisfied by a potential licensee in order to qualify for a 
licence. 
38. 
By law only casinos can supply table games.9 The Casino Control Act and 
Casino Gaming Rule 2010 together set detailed rules for table games in casinos. 
These rules cover aspects including the play of each game, table setup and 
payouts for successful bets. The ACCC understands that these rules leave little 
scope for casinos to vary the payouts from table games. 
39. 
By law operators of gaming machines must hold a licence issued by the 
Queensland Government.10 The terms of the licence will state the maximum 
number of gaming machines allowed on the premises. Further, there is also a 
state-wide cap on the number of the total gaming machines in clubs in 
Queensland, and a separate state-wide cap on the number of total gaming 
machines in hotels in Queensland. There is a legislative framework that allows 
for the reallocation of gaming machine entitlements within each state-wide cap. 
40. 
Gaming machines operated by casinos, hotels or clubs in Queensland must 
have an expected return to patrons through winnings of at least 85% of the total 
amount made in bets.11 
Areas of overlap 
41. 
If the Aquis Resort is developed, it and the Reef Casino will each operate a 
casino in the Cairns region. 
42. 
They are also both expected to provide services such as accommodation, and 
other tourist related services (such as retail shops and restaurants). However, 
the proposed acquisition is unlikely to have a substantial effect on competition 
for the supply of these services due to the large number of suppliers of these 
services in the Cairns region. 
                                                 
 
 
9 Table games refers to games such as blackjack, roulette, and baccarat that are played on a table. The 
phrase table games is used to distinguish games of this type from other forms of gambling available at a 
casino such as gaming machines. 
10 Gaming Machine Act 1991 (Qld) 
11 Chapter 8.3 of the Australian/New Zealand Gaming Machine National Standard, Revision 10.3, 13 
December 2012 
(http://www.olgr.qld.gov.au/__data/assets/pdf_file/0017/250370/AustralianNewZealandGamingMachine
NationalStandard.pdf). These standards are required to be adopted by machines in Queensland under the 
Gaming Machine Act 1991 (Qld). 


Aquis Group - proposed acquisition of the Reef Casino Trust 
 
 
Page 10 of 20 
 
Market definition 
43. 
Based on its analysis to date, the ACCC has considered the proposed 
acquisition in the context of a market for the supply of casino services. 
44. 
Australian casinos typically offer a combination of entertainment services 
including table games, gaming machines, live music and theatre, food, 
nightclubs and other ancillary services (together, casino services).  
45. 
As noted above at paragraph 38, only casinos can supply table games. The 
ACCC understands that in general, table games offer a uniquely interactive 
gaming experience that distinguishes them from gaming machines and other 
types of gambling. This exclusivity for table games means that while other 
venues may provide some of the same services as a casino, they are at best 
imperfect substitutes for casinos. For this reason, the ACCC’s preliminary view is 
that there is a market for casino services. 
46. 
However, the ACCC is still considering whether competition between casinos 
and non-casino providers of gaming machines and entertainment is sufficiently 
strong such that they should be considered as part of the same market (e.g. a 
market for gambling and entertainment services that includes casinos and 
venues with gaming machines). Alternatively, the ACCC is considering whether 
competition between casinos and other venues should be considered in the 
context of a narrower separate market for gaming machines. 
47. 
Further, the ACCC is still considering whether a market for casino services 
should be further divided into separate markets according to the customer 
groups that attend casinos. 
48. 
These issues are considered in further detail in paragraphs 49 to 59 below. 
Product dimension 
Differences between table games and gaming machines 
49. 
As described above, the ACCC understands that table games form a unique 
point of differentiation between casino services and the services provided by 
other non-casino venues with gaming machines. This is based on an 
understanding that most customers of casinos do not consider gaming machines 
to be a close substitute for table gaming. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on whether and to what extent 
mass customers see gaming machines or other forms of gambling as substitutes for 
table gaming. 
Differences between playing gaming machines at a casino and playing gaming 
machines at other venues 
50. 
The ACCC understands that a significant proportion of a casino’s customers may 
play its gaming machines and not play the table games at all. Customers of this 
type are more likely to consider a club with gaming machines to be a substitute 
for a casino than customers who play both table games and gaming machines. 
For this reason, there is an aspect of a casino’s business that may be subject to 
competition from other local venues that offer a combination of gaming 


Aquis Group - proposed acquisition of the Reef Casino Trust 
 
 
Page 11 of 20 
 
machines, food, entertainment and other ancillary services (such as leagues 
clubs with gaming machines). 
51. 
However, the ACCC is considering whether there are differences between the 
context in which casinos and other venues provide their gaming machines (in 
terms of venue, or other services available) such that playing gaming machines 
at a casino is a different experience to playing gaming machines at non-casino 
venues. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on whether and to what extent 
patrons see playing gaming machines at non-casino venues to be a substitute for 
playing gaming machines at casinos. 
Differences between casino services provided to different types of patrons 
52. 
As mentioned above at paragraph 34, the services that casinos provide to mass 
customers and VIP customers are different. Mass customers and VIP customers 
have distinct needs and substitution possibilities in relation to their gambling 
experience. Thus there is the potential for the competitive effects of the 
proposed transaction to be different for mass customers and VIP customers.   
53. 
However, the ACCC understands that many casinos cater to both types of 
customers (at least to some extent). The ACCC further considers that it may be 
possible for a casino that caters exclusively or predominantly to one type of 
customer (e.g. VIP customers) to amend its offer to include a greater range of 
services to the other type of customer (e.g. mass customers) as part of its offer. 
The ACCC is still considering whether casinos that cater to one type of customer 
would have an incentive to amend their offer in this manner in response to a 
SSNIP12 in the services that other casinos provide to the other type of customer. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on: 
1) The differences between the services that casinos supply to VIP customers and 
mass customers 
2) Any legal, commercial or practical impediments to a casino that is focused on VIP 
customers (such as the Aquis Resort) starting to provide services to mass 
customers (and vice versa). 
Geographic dimension 
54. 
The ACCC is considering whether the geographic dimension of the relevant 
market may differ in respect of different types of customers. In particular, the 
ACCC is considering whether the geographic area in which casinos are 
considered to be close substitutes is likely to be wider for VIP customers than for 
mass customers.  
                                                 
 
 
12 A small but significant non-transitory increase in prices (or equivalent reduction in service quality).  


Aquis Group - proposed acquisition of the Reef Casino Trust 
 
 
Page 12 of 20 
 
Mass customers 
55. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that competition for the supply of casino 
services to mass customers would only be between venues in Cairns and its 
surrounding suburbs (including Yorkeys Knob).  
56. 
Mass customers of the Aquis Resort or the Reef Casino will be local residents 
and/or tourists, including tourists staying at other hotels in the Cairns area. The 
ACCC considers that local residents would not travel beyond the Cairns region in 
response to a SSNIP by a hypothetical monopolist of casino services in Cairns. 
In the context of mass customers, a SSNIP might involve an increase in the price 
and/or a degradation of the non-price offer of casino services including 
promotions, rebates, or the price or quality of other goods or services provided in 
conjunction with table games or gaming machines. 
57. 
The ACCC acknowledges that tourist mass customers are potentially more 
mobile than local residents. However its preliminary view is that most mass 
customers planning to visit a casino in Cairns have not chosen to visit Cairns for 
the primary purpose of visiting that casino. For this reason, the ACCC’s 
preliminary view is that most mass customers planning to visit a Cairns casino as 
tourists would be unlikely to change their entire travel plans to a different location 
in response to a SSNIP by a hypothetical monopolist of casino services in 
Cairns. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the extent to which mass 
customers who travel to Cairns as tourists choose their holiday location on the basis of 
the casino. Does this differ depending on whether the tourist is visiting Cairns from 
overseas? 
VIP customers 
58. 
In contrast to mass customers, VIP customers are highly mobile. This is because 
they are more likely to structure their travel around the particular casino that they 
wish to visit (and the inducements that they will receive for visiting that casino, 
which may include free international airfares). Most are not Australian residents. 
For these reasons, the substitution possibilities available to VIP customers may 
be wider than for other customers. 
59. 
However, the ACCC notes that the Aquis Resort and the Reef Casino may 
perhaps be differentiated from other casinos on the basis of geography. The 
ACCC has received submissions suggesting that casinos in Cairns may 
distinguish themselves from other casinos due to the proximity of Cairns to the 
Great Barrier Reef and Daintree Rainforest, Cairns’ warm climate (with annual 
variations that complement other casino locations such as Macau), and Cairns’ 
reputation as a safe and relaxing holiday location for partners and families of 
VIPs. The ACCC is considering whether Cairns casinos offer a differentiated 
product to VIP customers within a broader geographic market, or whether they 
constitute a separate market themselves. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on whether VIP customers are 
likely to see casinos located outside of Cairns, or outside of Australia, as substitutes 
for casinos located within Cairns (including the Aquis Resort once developed). 


Aquis Group - proposed acquisition of the Reef Casino Trust 
 
 
Page 13 of 20 
 
Conclusion on market definition 
60. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition should be 
considered in the context of a market for the supply of casino services. 
Statement of issues 
61. 
Overall, the ACCC takes the preliminary view that the proposed acquisition may 
raise competition concerns. It takes this view because if the Aquis Resort 
proceeds, but the proposed acquisition does not, there would be two casinos 
located in Cairns with different owners. Considered in this manner, the proposed 
acquisition represents a reduction in the number of casino owners in Cairns from 
two to one. 
62. 
However, given the multifaceted nature of competition for casino services (as 
described above under the heading ‘market definition’), and the fact that the 
ACCC is still considering the appropriate market definition, the ACCC has 
considered how different aspects of competition for the supply of casino services 
may be affected by the proposed acquisition. For the purposes of this Statement 
of Issues, the issues in this matter are divided into two categories, 'issues that 
may raise concerns' and 'issues unlikely to pose concerns'. 
Issues that may raise concerns 
Supply of casino services to mass customers in Cairns 
63. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition has the potential to 
result in harm to competition for the supply of casino services to mass customers 
in Cairns. As mentioned above, this is because the proposed acquisition may 
represent a reduction in the number of casino owners in Cairns from two to one, 
thereby eliminating the prospect of mass customers receiving the benefits of 
competition between those casinos. These benefits might include improvements 
to the price and/or non-price offer of the casinos such as promotions, rebates, 
loyalty or membership card schemes, gaming machine payout rates (subject to 
statutory limits) or the price or quality of other goods or services provided in the 
casinos (such as food or live entertainment). 
64. 
Aquis has submitted to the ACCC that if the proposed acquisition did not 
proceed and if the Aquis Resort was developed, the two casinos would not 
compete with each other for mass customers in a material way. This is because 
its resort would target different types of customers to the Reef Casino and there 
would be minimal or no competitive overlap between them. As a result, the 
proposed acquisition would not substantially lessen any competition between the 
two venues. 
65. 
In particular, Aquis has stated that the Aquis Resort would be modelled on 
existing casinos located in Macau. For this reason, it would primarily be targeted 
at international customers, with the majority of its revenues coming from 
international VIPs. Aquis submits that to the extent that mass customers visit its 


Aquis Group - proposed acquisition of the Reef Casino Trust 
 
 
Page 14 of 20 
 
resort, they would be higher stake mass customers. In contrast, the Reef Casino 
currently obtains much of its business from lower stake mass customers.13 
66. 
Aquis proposes to require significantly higher minimum bets from customers at 
table games at the Aquis Resort than those applying at the Reef Casino: 
a. The current lowest minimum bet at the Reef Casino is $2.50 (this is the 
minimum bet at eight of its 38 tables), and every one of Reef Casino’s 
38 tables currently has a minimum bet size that is less than the proposed 
smallest minimum bet at the Aquis Resort (although the extent to which 
Reef Casino customers are willing to bet at higher levels than the minimum 
is not clear). 
b. Average revenue per mass customer at the Aquis Resort is expected to be 
substantially greater than the average revenue per mass customer 
currently obtained by the Reef Casino. 
67. 
Aquis has also submitted that the type of atmosphere that is most appealing to 
its target customers is quieter and more refined than the type of atmosphere that 
is generated by lower stake mass customers who visit a casino for ‘a good time’ 
and often drink alcohol while gambling. For this reason, it says that it could not 
effectively target its resort to VIP customers if it also catered to lower stake mass 
customers.  
68. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the Aquis Resort and the Reef Casino 
would be likely to have differentiated offers and may focus on different 
customers. However, the ACCC remains concerned that the mere fact that two 
casinos would operate so close to each other suggests they are likely to 
compete, at least to some extent. While Aquis Resort may focus on VIP 
customers, it may still cater to a broad range of mass customers. In this regard, 
the ACCC is considering whether providing services to VIP customers is 
necessarily incompatible with also providing casino services to lower stake mass 
customers at the same venue. 
69. 
The ACCC also notes that certain aspects of the Aquis Resort suggest that it 
may attract significant numbers of mass customers. For example, the Aquis 
Resort is proposed to include high end retail shopping, an aquarium, two 
theatres and convention facilities. These facilities may have broad appeal to 
mass customers. The Environmental Impact Statement released by Aquis in 
respect of its resort states that on opening, Aquis expects its entertainment 
facilities to attract approximately 250,000 ‘day visitors’ (being locals and visitors 
that stay at other hotels) per annum.14 The ACCC expects that the Aquis 
Resort’s casino would also cater to these potential customers.  
                                                 
 
 
13 The ACCC notes the possibility that the focus of the Reef Casino could change in the future in the 
absence of the proposed acquisition. This issue is considered below at paragraphs 78 to 84. 
14 See Table 13-11 at page 22 of chapter 13 of the statement at 
http://eisdocs.dsdip.qld.gov.au/Active%20Projects/Aquis%20Resort%20at%20the%20Great%20Barrier
%20Reef/EIS/Aquis%20EIS_DIGITAL_Chapter%2013.pdf  


Aquis Group - proposed acquisition of the Reef Casino Trust 
 
 
Page 15 of 20 
 
70. 
Further, the Aquis Resort has sought approval for approximately 750 gaming 
tables and 1500 gaming machines to be placed at the resort.15 Even if the final 
resort as constructed does not include as many tables and machines as this, it 
will still be around the scale of the largest existing casinos in Australia. The 
ACCC is considering whether: 
a. the Aquis Resort would be able to attract enough customers to operate 
a casino on such a large scale without appealing to all types of mass 
customers 
b. the large number of gaming machines would be necessary if Aquis did 
not intend to attract lower stake mass customers. 
71. 
More broadly, the ACCC notes that the analysis of competitive overlap 
presented above is based on the current operations of the Reef Casino and the 
currently expected operations of the Aquis Resort. However, the proposed 
acquisition also eliminates the potential for competition between these two 
venues in the future. For example, the two venues might compete more closely 
than described above if: 
a. Reef Casino changed its offer to allow it to compete more effectively with 
the Aquis Resort for higher stake mass customers 
b. the Aquis Resort was ultimately not constructed to the same standards and 
scale as currently proposed, with the result that it was more reliant on mass 
customers than is currently planned. In this context the ACCC notes that 
the Aquis Resort is currently of a size and scale that is unprecedented in 
Australia. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the likely extent of 
competition between the Aquis Resort and the Reef Casino in relation to the supply of 
casino services in the absence of the proposed acquisition. In particular market 
participants may wish to comment on: 
1) Similarities or differences between the type of mass customers that would be 
attracted to each of the Aquis Resort and the Reef Casino. What proportion of 
mass customers would be likely to be attracted to both casinos? 
2) The likelihood of the Aquis Resort competing for a broad range of mass 
customers, including lower stake mass customers. In your answer please 
consider: 
           a)    The operations of existing casinos in Macau, on which the Aquis Resort 
states it is to be modelled 
           b)    Any cultural or social differences between VIP and lower stake mass 
customers that mean that the Aquis resort could not effectively cater to both 
groups of customers 
                                                 
 
 
15 http://aquisgreatbarrierreefresort.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/08/130801-Aquis-GBR-Resort-
Submission-Overview.pdf 


Aquis Group - proposed acquisition of the Reef Casino Trust 
 
 
Page 16 of 20 
 
           c)    The ability of the Aquis Resort to effectively separate the parts of its 
business that cater to VIP and mass customers, so as to cater to both 
within the same venue  
3) Whether a large number of gaming machines, such as proposed for the Aquis 
Resort, would be necessary for a casino focused on international VIPs and higher 
stake mass customers. 
4) The proportion of mass customers who currently visit the Reef Casino that make 
bets at or around minimum bet levels, and the proportion that would be willing to 
make minimum bets of a significantly higher size. 
5) Whether the Reef Casino, as the only casino currently in Cairns, is currently 
attracting many higher stake mass customers. 
6) The actions that the Reef Casino might take in the absence of the proposed 
acquisition to attract a greater number of higher stake mass customers and the 
likelihood of this occurring. 
72. 
The analysis set out above at paragraphs 63 to 71 applied to all aspects of 
competition for the supply of casino services to mass customers. However, as 
noted earlier in this Statement of Issues, the ACCC is still considering the extent 
to which casinos compete with other venues that provide a combination of 
gaming machines and other entertainment. Paragraphs 73 to 77 below provide 
further information that is specifically referable to gaming machines. 
73. 
As mentioned above at paragraphs 12 and 13, the Reef Casino presently has 
519 gaming machines and the Aquis Resort has sought approval for 1500 
gaming machines. The Reef Casino is presently the venue with the most gaming 
machines in Cairns. 
74. 
There are presently approximately 38 other clubs and hotels in the Cairns / 
Yorkeys Knob area that have gaming machines. Other venues with significant 
numbers of gaming machines include Cazalys Cairns (300 machines), Brothers 
Leagues Club (170 machines), and Fuller Sports Club (90 machines). Together, 
venues other than the Reef Casino in the Cairns area have approximately 1750 
gaming machines. 
75. 
Further details of the other venues with gaming machines in Cairns and the 
surrounding area are set out at Table 2 below. 


Aquis Group - proposed acquisition of the Reef Casino Trust 
 
 
Page 17 of 20 
 
Table 2  – Summary of gaming machine venues in Cairns16 
Site Name 
Approved Gaming 
Machines 
% of Total Approved 
Gaming Machines 
Aquis Resort (if developed) 
1500 
40% 
Reef Hotel Casino 
519 
14% 
Cazalys Cairns 
300 
8% 
Brothers Leagues Club Cairns 
170 
5% 
Fuller Sports Club17 
90 
2% 
Fretwell Park 
60 
2% 
Centrals Trinity Beach 
Australian Rules & Sporting 
Club 
58 
2% 
Other (combined 33 venues) 
1056 
28% 
Total 
3753 
100% 
76. 
If the Aquis Resort is developed, it will have approximately 40% of the gaming 
machines in Cairns. In the absence of the proposed acquisition, the Reef Casino 
would be the closest competitor to the Aquis Resort in the supply of gaming 
machines (in terms of the number of machines). The proposed acquisition would 
have the effect of eliminating that competitor to the Aquis Resort, and increasing 
the percentage of the gaming machines in Cairns that are under Aquis’ control 
from 40% to 54%. The remaining competitors to Aquis and the Reef Casino 
would be mostly fragmented.  
77. 
In these circumstances, the ACCC is considering whether the proposed 
acquisition would materially increase Aquis’ ability to reduce gaming machine 
payout rates (subject to statutory limits) and/or reduce the quality of other casino 
services at the Aquis Resort or at the Reef Casino. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the likely effect of the 
proposed acquisition on competition for gaming machine patrons. In particular market 
participants may wish to comment on: 
1) 
The extent of current competition between the Reef Casino and other venues 
in Cairns for gaming machine patrons 
                                                 
 
 
16 Source: information gathered from the Queensland Office of Liquor and Gaming Regulation website 
https://secure.olgr.qld.gov.au/dcm/Gaming as at 23 June 2014. 
17 The Fuller Sports Club is owned by the Brothers Leagues Club Cairns. 


Aquis Group - proposed acquisition of the Reef Casino Trust 
 
 
Page 18 of 20 
 
2) 
The extent to which Aquis Resort would be likely to compete for gaming 
machine patrons, and if so, whether there would be a difference between the 
type of patrons attracted to the gaming machines at the Aquis Resort and 
those attracted to the Reef Casino or other venues in Cairns. 
Issues unlikely to pose concerns 
Supply of casino services to VIP customers 
78. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to 
substantially lessen competition for the supply of casino services to VIP 
customers. 
79. 
The ACCC understands that the majority of revenues at the Aquis resort are 
projected to come from VIP customers. In contrast, the Reef Casino currently 
does not receive many VIP patrons. The Independent Expert’s Report includes 
the statement (at page 15) that: 
“The Casino attracts predominantly average income customers, otherwise 
known as grind business, with a small proportion of premium customers… Within 
table games the vast majority of revenue is sourced from grind customers.” 
80. 
This suggests that if the Reef Casino were to maintain its current offer and 
customer focus, there would not be significant competition between the Reef 
Casino and the Aquis Resort for VIP customers in the absence of the proposed 
acquisition. 
81. 
However, the ACCC is also considering whether the Reef Casino would be 
substantially redeveloped, and its offer to VIP customers enhanced, in the 
absence of the proposed acquisition, given the presence of the new Aquis 
Resort. If this is likely, then the proposed acquisition eliminates that potential for 
greater competition between the Aquis Resort and the Reef Casino for VIP 
customers in the future. 
82. 
As mentioned above at paragraph 59, if the Aquis Resort and the Reef Casino 
were to compete for VIP customers in the future, they would be the only two 
casinos competing for VIP customers wanting to visit the Cairns region and the 
Great Barrier Reef. In this sense, they may be each other’s closest competitor.  
83. 
However, despite the possibility of the proposed acquisition eliminating future 
competition between the Aquis Resort and the Reef Casino for VIP customers, 
the ACCC’s preliminary view is that competition for VIP customers is broader 
than Cairns. If the proposed acquisition proceeds, the Aquis Resort and Reef 
Casino would be competing for VIP customers with other Australian casinos 
such as Crown Melbourne, The Star and the forthcoming casino at Barangaroo 
in Sydney (all of which are of greater scale than the Reef Casino), and possibly 
also with casinos located in other parts of the Asia-Pacific region such as Macau. 
84. 
When considered in this context, the ACCC’s current view is that the proposed 
acquisition of the Reef Casino would be unlikely to pose significant competition 
concerns relating to the supply of casino services to VIP customers. 


Aquis Group - proposed acquisition of the Reef Casino Trust 
 
 
Page 19 of 20 
 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on:  
1) The extent to which the Reef Casino currently caters to VIP customers. Why does 
it not attract more VIP customers? 
2) The extent to which, absent the proposed acquisition, the Aquis Resort and the 
Reef Casino would compete for VIP customers.  
3) The extent to which, following the proposed acquisition, the Aquis Resort and the 
Reef Casino would compete with other Australian and Asia-Pacific casinos for VIP 
customers. 
4) Would the development of the Aquis Resort hinder or enhance the ability of the 
Reef Casino to compete for VIP customers in the future? 
Barriers to entry 
85. 
As described above at paragraphs 36 and 37, a casino cannot be operated in 
Queensland without a licence issued by the Queensland Government.  
86. 
The ACCC considers that after the current Queensland Government bid process 
has been completed, it is unlikely that any more new licences will be issued that 
would allow the operation of a casino in Cairns for many years. 
87. 
For this reason the ACCC takes the view that there are high barriers to entry into 
the market for the supply of casino services, particularly in the Cairns area.  
88. 
As described above at paragraph 39, there is also a licence regime for gaming 
machine operators, and state-wide caps on the number of the total number of 
gaming machines in clubs and hotels. The ACCC takes the preliminary view that 
these restrictions constitute significant barriers to new entry into the supply of 
gaming machines in Cairns.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary views on 
barriers to entry. 
ACCC's future steps 
89. 
The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers market responses 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
90. 
The ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on each of the 
issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that may be 
relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. 
91. 
Submissions are to be received by the ACCC no later than 17 July 2014. The 
ACCC will consider the submissions received from the market and the merger 
parties in light of the issues identified above and will, in conjunction with 
information and submissions already provided by the parties, come to a final 
view in light of the issues raised above. 
92. 
The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 21 August 2014. 
However the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Merger Review 
Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose of 


Aquis Group - proposed acquisition of the Reef Casino Trust 
 
 
Page 20 of 20 
 
explaining the ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's public 
announcement. 
