 
Page 1 of 15 
 
Statement of Issues 
4 August 2016 
Seven West Media – proposed acquisition of The Sunday 
Times and perthnow.com.au  
Purpose 
 
This Statement of Issues aims to: 
1.
 
give the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission’s (ACCC’s) 
preliminary views on competition issues arising from Seven West Media 
Limited’s (SWM)1 proposed acquisition of The Sunday Times, and related 
online news site perthnow.com.au (PerthNow), from News Limited (News) 
(the proposed acquisition)  
 
identify areas of further inquiry 
 
give all interested parties an opportunity to comment 
 
invite interested parties to submit information to assist us in our 
assessment of the issues. 
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views 
 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is 
2.
in section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits 
acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of 
substantially lessening competition in any market. 
 
The ACCC divides its preliminary views into three categories: 'issues of concern', 
3.
'issues that may raise concerns' and ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’. For this 
acquisition there are no ‘issues of concern’, two ‘issues that may raise concerns’, 
and two ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’.  
                                                 
 
1 References to SWM include references to West Australian Newspapers Limited, a subsidiary of SWM, 
as context requires.  


SWM – proposed acquisition of The Sunday Times and perthnow.com.au 
Page 2 of 15 
Issues that may raise concern 
 
Provision of news and information to Western Australians: The ACCC’s 
preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition may be likely to 
substantially lessen competition in relation to the supply of news and 
information to readers in Western Australia, by reducing choice and 
removing the competitive constraint between SWM and News.  
 
Western Australian advertising opportunities in print newspapers: The 
ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition may be likely to 
substantially lessen competition in relation to the supply of Western 
Australian advertising opportunities in print newspapers. 
Issue unlikely to raise concern 
 
Acquisition of content: The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed 
acquisition is unlikely to raise competition concerns in relation to the 
acquisition of content from third party providers (e.g. newswire services).  
 
Western Australian advertising opportunities online: The ACCC’s 
preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to raise 
competition concerns in relation to online advertising, given the range of 
other sites advertisers can utilise.  
Making a submission 
 
The ACCC is seeking submissions from interested parties, particularly in respect 
4.
of the impact of the proposed acquisition on: 
 
competition between print newspapers  
 
the quality and diversity of content in print newspapers and online sites, 
especially news and informative content with a Western Australian focus  
 
whether advertising rates would increase for certain types of advertisers, 
particularly those that use print newspapers. 
 
This Statement of Issues sets out further detail on these and other issues, along 
5.
with specific questions. 
 
Interested parties should provide submissions by no later than 5pm on 
6.
18 August 2016. Responses may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the 
subject: Submission re: West Australian Newspapers/News - attention Jason 
Byrne/Mandy Bendelstein. If you would like to discuss the matter with ACCC 
officers over the telephone or in person, or have any questions about this 
Statement of Issues, please contact Mandy Bendelstein on (02) 9230 3890 or 
Jason Byrne on (02) 6243 1279.  
 
The ACCC anticipates making a final decision on 15 September 2016, however, 
7.
this timeline may change. To keep abreast of possible changes in relation to 
timing and to find relevant documents, interested parties should visit the Mergers 
Register on the ACCC's website at www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 


SWM – proposed acquisition of The Sunday Times and perthnow.com.au 
Page 3 of 15 
Confidentiality of submissions 
 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We 
8.
will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) 
unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation 
or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition 
and Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where possible so that you may 
have an opportunity to be heard. Therefore, if the information provided to the 
ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’ 
 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
9.
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well 
as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
10.
readers/consumers, competitors, shareholders, advertisers and other 
stakeholders) to ascertain and consider the primary issues identified by the 
ACCC. It is also intended to provide SWM and News and other interested parties 
with the basis for making further submissions should they consider it necessary. 
Timeline 
 
Date 
Event 
27 May 2016 
ACCC commenced review of the proposed 
acquisition 
4 August 2016 
ACCC publication of Statement of Issues 
18 August 2016 
Deadline for submissions from interested parties in 
response to this Statement of Issues 
15 September 2016 
Anticipated date for ACCC final decision  
 
The parties 
Seven West Media 
 
SWM is a national media provider, whose assets include the Seven Network, 
11.
Pacific Magazines and a share in Yahoo!7 and Sky News Australia. 
 
In Western Australia, SWM supplies: 
12.
 
The West Australian, a paid newspaper distributed in Perth and regional 
Western Australia from Monday to Friday. The newspaper has a large 
focus on news, especially local news.  


SWM – proposed acquisition of The Sunday Times and perthnow.com.au 
Page 4 of 15 
 
The Weekend West, a paid newspaper distributed in Perth and regional 
Western Australia on Saturday. It generally offers more content and has 
more readers than the weekday paper. It includes local, national and 
international news, as well as information on business, sport, weather, 
entertainment, opinion, television and movies, travel, health and wellbeing, 
classifieds and public notices. 
 
thewest.com.au (TheWest), a free online news site supplying news and 
information, including news content with a Western Australian emphasis. 
The site also offers a paid digital replica of The West Australian and The 
Weekend West newspapers for subscribers. 
 
Western Australian community and regional newspapers, free newspapers 
distributed in metropolitan and regional Western Australia. 
 
The Quokka, a weekly printed classified-advertising publication, sold 
throughout metropolitan and regional areas of Western Australia. It is 
supplemented by the online site quokka.com.au. 
 
Regional radio stations in the Spirit and Red FM networks. 
 
SWM also holds a 49.9 per cent interest in Community Newspaper Group, 
with News having the remaining 50.1 per cent interest. Community 
Newspaper Group publishes a number of community newspapers for 
distribution across Perth and nearby. 
News 
 
News is wholly-owned by News Corporation and is the publisher of various print 
13.
media and online sites throughout Australia (or parts of Australia), including The 
Australian, The Weekend Australian, The Herald Sun and The Daily Telegraph 
newspapers, and online sites news.com.au and realestate.com.au. News also 
has a 48.9 per cent interest in carsguide.com.au and a 25 per cent interest in 
careerone.com.au.  
 
As indicated above, News also has a 50.1 per cent interest in the Community 
14.
Newspaper Group. 
 
In Western Australia, News supplies: 
15.
 
The Sunday Times, a paid newspaper distributed in Perth and regional 
Western Australia on Sundays only. The newspaper includes local, 
national and international news, as well as information on business, sport, 
weather, entertainment, opinion, television, travel, health and wellbeing 
current affairs, motor vehicles, property and real estate. 
 
PerthNow, a free online news site supplying news and information, 
including news content with a Western Australian emphasis. The site also 
offers a paid digital replica of The Sunday Times for subscribers.  


SWM – proposed acquisition of The Sunday Times and perthnow.com.au 
Page 5 of 15 
Other industry participants 
Fairfax 
 
Fairfax Media Limited (Fairfax) is a newspaper publishing group which operates 
16.
in both Australia and New Zealand with an integrated metropolitan, rural, 
regional, print and online presence.  
 
Fairfax mastheads include The Sydney Morning Herald, The Age, The Australian 
17.
Financial Review, BRW and The Sun-Herald. 
 
In Western Australia, Fairfax publishes WAtoday.com.au (WAtoday), an online 
18.
only news site established in 2008. WAtoday publishes national and international 
content, as well as content specific to Western Australia.  
Changes in media markets 
 
Section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 prohibits mergers or 
19.
acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of 
substantially lessening competition in any market. Consistent with the forward 
looking nature of section 50, the ACCC is considering the dynamic 
characteristics of the relevant markets and the potential for change in the 
foreseeable future.  
 
The supply of news and information to consumers, and the supply of advertising 
20.
opportunities to advertisers, have been subject to significant change over the last 
decade. This is reflected in the changing ways in which consumers access news 
and information, and the media platforms used by advertisers to target potential 
customers. Traditional media models in the form of print newspapers are facing 
increasing challenges from other platforms. Many established incumbents have 
responded by creating their own online news sites that allow content to be 
accessed via desktop, tablets and mobile devices.  
 
The newspaper publishing industry in Australia is forecast to generate revenue 
21.
of about $3.8 billion in 2015-2016, a decline of 5.7 per cent from 2014-2015. 
Industry revenue is expected to fall at an annualised 8.4 per cent over the five 
years from 2015-16.2  
 
In contrast to the print media industry, digital media has been growing, with 
22.
many consumers switching their news consumption from print to digital media, or 
supplementing their print news consumption with digital news. Digital media 
includes online news sites (including digital editions of newspapers), social 
media and video/streaming services. Unlike online news sites, social media 
tends to aggregate and present news and information to consumers, as opposed 
to producing or generating such content.  
 
TV and radio news consumption has either largely remained static or slightly 
23.
declined, although not at the same rate as newspapers. TV and radio news have 
also been impacted by changes in technology and have adapted their 
broadcasting models in response to these changes. Most of the major TV 
                                                 
 
2
 Newspaper Publishing in Australia June 2016, IBISWorld, page 4. 


SWM – proposed acquisition of The Sunday Times and perthnow.com.au 
Page 6 of 15 
stations and the 24 hour news channels, such as ABC News and Sky News, 
have associated websites where consumers can view or read their broadcast 
news stories. Many radio services can now be streamed online or listened to via 
an app. 
 
Where markets are growing rapidly, this may facilitate new entry or expansion 
24.
and erode the market shares of established incumbents. However, the ongoing 
financial viability of new online providers is dependent on their ability to monetise 
their content. The strong market position enjoyed by incumbent suppliers of 
national news (SWM, Fairfax, Nine, Ten and News) by virtue of their broader 
media interests may therefore be unlikely to change in the near future. 
Future with and without the acquisition  
 
In assessing a proposed acquisition pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC 
25.
considers the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future competitive 
environment post-acquisition if the acquisition proceeds (the “with” position) to 
the likely future competitive environment if the acquisition does not proceed (the 
“without” position) to determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in any relevant market. 
 
The ACCC has not come to a concluded view on the likely future without the 
26.
proposed acquisition but, in the context of falling demand for print newspapers 
and the shift to online, is considering the likelihood of: 
 
the status quo continuing, with SWM and News remaining as independent 
competitors in Western Australia 
 
an alternative purchaser acquiring the News assets  
 
the business being restructured, or 
 
the closure of any assets, including print assets, as the market dynamics 
change. 
The ACCC invites comments from industry participants on what is likely to occur 
in the future without the proposed acquisition.  
Market definition 
 
Media markets can be characterised by their interdependent two-sided nature. 
27.
Suppliers of media platforms acquire or develop content to attract consumers, 
which in turn attracts advertisers. Each of SWM and News supply print 
newspapers and online news sites that supply news and information to readers, 
and advertising opportunities to advertisers who wish to reach those readers.  
 
Because digital and print news platforms are two-sided in nature, it is necessary 
28.
to consider the inter-related nature of demand. For example, an increase in 
demand by readers on a particular platform will be likely to lead to an increase in 
demand from advertisers for advertising on the other side of the same platform.  


SWM – proposed acquisition of The Sunday Times and perthnow.com.au 
Page 7 of 15 
From a reader/consumer perspective 
 
SWM and News supply news and information to readers/consumers in Western 
29.
Australia by way of various platforms, with both having print newspaper and 
online assets, and SWM also having significant television and radio interests.  
 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the principal area of competitive concern 
30.
from a reader/consumer perspective relates to the supply of news and 
information to readers/consumers in Western Australia. Such readers are likely 
to have a preference for news and information with a focus on Western 
Australian content. A content provider with journalists that are largely dedicated 
to producing Western Australian news stories will have a considerable 
advantage in attracting Western Australian readers.  
 
The ACCC recognises that SWM and News publications in Western Australia 
31.
contain news content that is national and international in focus. For this content, 
there are alternative sources of supply for readers (e.g. The Australian is printed 
and available in Western Australia; and readers can access news content from a 
variety of online sources, including national and international content providers). 
However, the distinguishing feature of The Sunday Times and PerthNow (as well 
as SWM’s Western Australian publications) is the extent of their focus on 
Western Australian news content. Market inquiries have consistently indicated 
that this is highly valued by Western Australian consumers.  
 
This means that News’ national paper, The Australian, and Fairfax’s The 
32.
Australian Financial Review, are unlikely to be close competitors to The Sunday 
Times and SWM’s print publications in Western Australia. Similarly, online news 
sites that do not focus their content on Western Australian stories are unlikely to 
be close competitors for those consumers wishing to access Western Australian 
focused content.  
 
The ACCC has not reached a concluded position on which other media (i.e. daily 
33.
newspapers, online, community newspapers, TV, radio) are in the market from a 
reader/consumer perspective. Substitution is a matter of degree and each reader 
may consider different platforms to be substitutable for different types of news 
and information at different times. Issues around the degree of constraint that 
online and other platforms have on print newspapers are discussed in the 
competition issues section below.  
From an advertiser perspective 
 
There are a variety of platforms available to advertisers. The choice of 
34.
advertising platform will be influenced by the product, the group of potential 
customers that advertisers are seeking to target, and whether or not the 
advertisement is time sensitive.3  
 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the geographic dimension of the relevant 
35.
advertising market(s) will be state-wide. The major newspapers of the parties in 
Western Australia are distributed state-wide to reach consumers, and the online 
                                                 
 
3 For example, a “grand opening sale tomorrow” advert could not be effectively placed in a magazine 
distributed monthly. 


SWM – proposed acquisition of The Sunday Times and perthnow.com.au 
Page 8 of 15 
sites are targeted at a state-wide audience. They therefore provide state-wide 
advertising opportunities to advertisers.  
 
Given the proposed acquisition reduces the number of newspaper providers in 
36.
Western Australia, a key issue for the ACCC is whether or not advertising via 
other platforms is a substitute for print newspapers. 
 
Some advertisers have submitted that advertising on online news sites is not a 
37.
sufficiently close substitute for print newspapers, especially to reach certain 
target audiences, and should not be considered in the same market. 
 
Market inquiries with advertisers have also suggested that advertising via other 
38.
platforms, such as TV, radio, magazines, community newspapers, billboards and 
pamphlet drops, is not generally a substitute for newspapers. Market inquiries 
indicated that, for certain types of advertisements, these other methods of 
advertising do not reach the same target audience nearly as effectively (per 
dollar spent on the advertisement) as The Sunday Times, The West Australian 
and The Weekend West. In particular, a number of advertisers have indicated 
that television advertising is a much more costly option relative to the expected 
financial returns. 
 
The ACCC’s preliminary view therefore is that there is likely to be a separate 
39.
market for advertising in print newspapers. While other platforms (such as radio, 
television, online) are clearly the preferred option for many advertisers, these 
platforms are not a substitute for print newspapers for those advertisers 
attempting to reach certain target audiences.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary views about 
the relevant markets. In particular, market participants may wish to comment on: 
 
Whether readers/consumers in Western Australia consider nationally-focused 
sources of news to be a substitute for news and information that has a Western 
Australian focus.  
 
The extent to which Western Australian readers/consumers would switch to 
obtaining more news and information online or via other media platform such as 
TV, radio or social media if the price of print newspapers were to rise by 5 to 10 
per cent, or if the quality of content is reduced. 
 
Whether advertisers would advertise online or on other media platform such as TV, 
radio, magazines or social media instead of advertising in print newspapers in 
response to a price increase in newspaper print advertising of 5 to 10 per cent. 
Issue that may raise concern – reduction in competition in 
supply of news and information to readers/consumers in 
Western Australia  
 
Based upon its inquiries to date, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the 
40.
proposed acquisition may be likely to substantially lessen competition in relation 
to the supply of news and information to readers/consumers in Western 
Australia. The proposed acquisition: 


SWM – proposed acquisition of The Sunday Times and perthnow.com.au 
Page 9 of 15 
 
may reduce choice for readers, in terms of editorial content and 
perspective on news stories 
 
may increase newspaper prices to consumers or encourage the 
introduction of a digital paywall for online news 
 
may lead to a reduction in the quality of content contained in the 
newspapers and/or online  
 
may lead to a reduction in the total offering (for instance, one of the two 
weekend papers being discontinued). 
 
The ACCC considers that SWM and News are likely to be each other’s closest 
41.
competitors. They are the only companies that supply print newspapers across 
Western Australia, which include news (Western Australian news, national and 
international news), opinion, business, travel, technology, entertainment, lifestyle 
and other content that is designed to meet the needs of a range of consumers in 
Western Australia. They also compete with respect to newspaper inserted 
magazines/supplements and lift outs. 
 
The SWM newspapers and The Sunday Times provide a differentiated product 
42.
offering to readers, with each paper having different journalists, sources and 
opinions on Western Australian issues.  
 
In addition, SWM and News compete head-to-head with each other in producing 
43.
breaking and leading news content online to attract readers, especially Western 
Australian news. 
Competition between the print newspapers 
 
The SWM newspapers and The Sunday Times newspapers are published on 
44.
different days, which affects the nature of the competition between them. For 
customers that place a very high value on up-to-date daily news in a newspaper, 
the papers may be more complements than substitutes, as buying a newspaper 
on a day other than the day it is published is not a viable option.  
 
On the other hand, there are likely to be readers who consider the SWM 
45.
newspapers and The Sunday Times to be substitutes. Market inquiries have 
indicated that some readers highly value a weekend newspaper covering a 
range of news, lifestyle, arts, business, sport and other content, and will choose 
whichever of the weekend newspapers is available having regard to quality and 
price, regardless of whether it is published on Saturday or Sunday.  
 
As was discussed earlier in the market definition section, the ACCC is also 
46.
seeking to assess the competitive constraint provided by alternative online news 
sites, and other sources of news such as TV and radio.  
 
The degree of competitive constraint will depend on the nature of the content, for 
47.
example: 
 
for lifestyle/travel type information and the types of stories in weekend 
newspaper inserts, magazines, online and some television shows may be 
a significant competitive constraint for some readers 


SWM – proposed acquisition of The Sunday Times and perthnow.com.au 
Page 10 of 15 
 
for up-to-date daily news, television, online and radio may be a significant 
constraint for many readers (noting that SWM owns both television and 
radio assets in Western Australia) 
 
for local or regional news, free community newspapers may be a 
significant constraint, depending on the frequency of publication. 
 
A critical issue for the ACCC is the extent to which the existing competitive 
48.
tension between the SWM newspapers and The Sunday Times is an important 
factor in maintaining quality and diversity of content and competitive prices, and 
whether or not these publications are each other’s closest competitors. Even 
where other sources of supply, such as alternative online news providers, radio 
and television, provide some level of competitive constraint for some types of 
content, they may not be able to offer the same level of competitive constraint as 
the print newspapers provide to each other.  
 
As was noted earlier, print newspapers are in decline and digital platforms are 
49.
growing. The ACCC has received consistent market feedback regarding the 
decline in usage of newspapers and the parallel increase in usage of digital 
media, including by way of PerthNow (News’ site) and TheWest (SWM’s main 
site). Convergence and advancements in technology (particularly mobile/tablet 
devices) have led to an increase in consumers seeking to access news and 
information over the internet. 
 
However, despite a general industry trend of declining circulation and readership 
50.
of newspapers, there appear to still be a group of consumers that do not 
consider other sources of news and information to be substitutes for print 
newspapers. The size of this group of readers is declining, but the proposed 
acquisition clearly has the potential to adversely affect them. The ACCC 
considers these readers potentially vulnerable to price increases and reductions 
in quality.  
 
A range of reasons have been expressed to the ACCC as to why some readers 
51.
still have a strong preference for newspapers. For example, some readers enjoy 
reading newspapers at a particular time and place. This may be in addition to 
using other news media platforms (e.g. online, radio or TV) at different times. 
Print newspapers also allow readers to access news and information without 
needing an internet connection and without pop-up ads interrupting the reader’s 
experience. Market inquiries and readership data have suggested that such 
readers are generally in the older demographics.  
 
An issue the ACCC has considered is the extent to which print newspapers can 
52.
“price discriminate” against those readers who do not consider other sources of 
news and information to be substitutes for print newspapers, for example, by 
charging those readers more than they charge readers that are more prone to 
switching to alternative platforms. The options for price discrimination in relation 
to print newspapers appear limited. While there may be some limited potential to 
price discriminate (for example, free newspapers can be given to students), overt 
price discrimination is unlikely. If price discrimination is difficult, then the increase 
in price to readers (or reduction in quality of content) that is likely to result from a 
merger of two print newspapers is likely to be smaller.  
 
In terms of other media platforms, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that there are 
53.
likely to be many newspaper readers for whom television and radio are typically 


SWM – proposed acquisition of The Sunday Times and perthnow.com.au 
Page 11 of 15 
not an option for most of the news and information they are seeking, and 
therefore, television and radio news will provide only a limited constraint. The 
ACCC’s inquiries have indicated that if the quality of the newspapers or online 
news site is reduced after the acquisition (or cover/subscription prices are 
increased), many readers would not switch to radio or television.  
Online news sites 
 
The SWM site, TheWest, and the News’ site, PerthNow, are in close competition 
54.
with each other, and are likely each other’s closest competitive constraint. The 
ACCC is concerned that the loss of competition between the parties may lead to 
a reduction in the quality of the online news sites and/or the introduction of a 
digital paywall. 
 
The ACCC is further considering the extent to which other online news sites in 
55.
Western Australia, such as WAtoday (owned by Fairfax), would competitively 
constrain SWM post-acquisition. Some consumers have indicated that they 
prefer to use PerthNow or TheWest as their primary source of Western 
Australian focused news and information as opposed to WAtoday. However, 
WAtoday is achieving “unique audience visits” that are not far behind PerthNow 
or TheWest.  
 
The competition between online sites is closely linked to print newspaper 
56.
competition, given suppliers of print platforms also supply online news and there 
are significant synergies in terms of utilising journalists for both the print and 
online platforms. However, some sites are online only with no associated 
hardcopy newspaper, such as ABC Online and WAtoday. 
 
Some consumers are increasingly using search engines such as Google News 
57.
and social media sites such as Facebook as a means of accessing information, 
distinct from online news sites that have a particular focus on producing and 
supplying news. However, market inquiries have indicated that many social 
media and similar sites tend to only be aggregators of news content, rather than 
generators of news (especially in producing and supplying local news). The 
ACCC is considering whether these providers constrain online news sites that 
generate Western Australian focused content. 
 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that barriers to establishing an online news site 
58.
are lower than for print. Establishing an online site does not require the cost of 
printing presses and related facilities. Fairfax’s site, WAtoday, is an example of 
new entry. However some industry participants have pointed to significant 
difficulties in being able to monetise online news sites in order to generate a 
profit.  
 
Market inquiries have suggested that some traditional media participants, even 
59.
with the benefit of a long established incumbency and the ability to leverage their 
existing media businesses, have faced challenges in expanding into digital news 
and operating it as a profitable business model.  
 
In addition, a potential new entrant may not have the advantage of being able to 
60.
leverage off an existing multi-platform media business and shared resources, 
including branding, journalists and a network of local, national and international 
content. 


SWM – proposed acquisition of The Sunday Times and perthnow.com.au 
Page 12 of 15 
 
The established incumbency of major media players may act as a deterrent for 
61.
potential new entrants. In this regard, the ACCC is considering the extent to 
which SWM’s incumbency, including its significant network of media interests in 
Western Australia and nationally, and the proposed acquisition itself, may affect 
barriers to entry for any prospective online news entrant. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the following: 
 
The impact of having SWM as the publisher of The Sunday Times and the owner 
of PerthNow and TheWest on reader choice and diversity. 
 
The extent to which readers consider The Sunday Times is a substitute for the 
SWM newspapers published on other days of the week.  
 
The extent to which, for weekend papers in particular, readers value up-to-date 
daily news/sport in their newspaper, or whether readers value less time-sensitive 
content (i.e. lifestyle, articles about longer-term issues). 
 
The extent to which online news sites are a substitute for print newspapers and 
whether there are certain readers for which online will not be a substitute (and the 
size of this readership).  
 
The extent to which television and radio are substitutes for newspapers and online 
news sites.  
 
The degree to which WAtoday and ABC Online are substitutes to PerthNow or 
TheWest for news and information focused on Western Australia.  
 
Barriers to entry/expansion for new online news sites focused on Western 
Australia, and the likelihood of new sites monetising their operations and providing 
a competitive constraint on PerthNow and TheWest.  
 
Whether PerthNow and TheWest are particularly strong competitors, in terms of 
quality, breaking new stories etc.  
Issue that may raise concern – reduction in competition in 
newspaper print advertising 
 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition may be likely to 
62.
substantially lessen competition in relation to the supply of Western Australian 
advertising opportunities in print newspapers. 
 
Market inquiries have suggested that there is close competition between SWM 
63.
and News in offering advertising opportunities in print newspapers in Western 
Australia. Some advertisers point to competitive pressure between SWM and 
News as enabling them to secure better advertising deals than would be the 
case post-acquisition. They have also indicated that there is no other media 
supplier that offers comparable, effective and value for money access to 
Western Australian consumers as the SWM newspapers and The Sunday 
Times. 
 
The ACCC is also considering whether there is particularly close competition 
64.
between weekend print newspapers. Weekday newspapers appear to pose less 


SWM – proposed acquisition of The Sunday Times and perthnow.com.au 
Page 13 of 15 
of a constraint than the competition that exists between The Sunday Times and 
The Weekend West in seeking to attract readers and advertisers.  
 
Advertising in weekend newspapers is more attractive for some advertisers 
65.
because of the larger audience, which is reflected in higher rates for advertising. 
A number of interested parties have also indicated that readers have less free 
time to read weekday newspapers as compared to weekend newspapers, which 
results in less exposure for advertisers to potential customers. 
 
Market inquiries have suggested that print newspapers are a particularly 
66.
effective for advertising to older demographics and consumers that value print 
newspapers. The advertisers have also said that online is not very effective for 
targeting such customers. Other forms of advertising, such as magazines or 
local newspapers, may be effective for some of these advertisers, but not all. For 
example, if the advertisement is time sensitive (i.e. an advertisement about a 
“Saturday only sale”) Saturday newspapers may be the only appropriate print 
advertising option.  
 
The ability to price discriminate is also relevant to advertising. Newspapers can 
67.
price discriminate relatively easily between advertisers. For example, if there is 
only one newspaper, and the newspaper knows that a certain advertiser’s only 
method of effective advertising is in newspapers, the newspaper can charge that 
advertiser a higher price.  
 
While it is unlikely the ACCC would consider there to be a separate market just 
68.
for advertising aimed at older demographics in print newspapers, the impact on 
advertising to this demographic is a particular area of competition concern which 
the ACCC is further considering.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants in relation to these issues, 
including on the following: 
 
The degree of competition between the SWM newspapers and The Sunday Times 
in competing for advertisers. 
 
The extent to which online advertising constrains the price of print newspaper 
advertising, and whether there are some advertisers for which online is not a 
constraint (and if so, the size of that group of advertisers). 
 
The extent to which other forms of advertising (including TV, radio, billboards, local 
newspapers, national newspapers, pamphlets) constrain the price of print 
newspaper advertising, and whether there some advertisers that cannot use these 
other options (and if so, the size of that group of advertisers). 
 
Whether advertisers consider there is a substitute for print newspaper advertising 
in Western Australia, particularly when targeting the older demographic. 
Issue unlikely to raise concern – the acquisition of content 
from content providers 
 
In respect of content acquired from third party providers (e.g. newswire 
69.
services), such as national or international news, the loss of a single newspaper 
customer is unlikely to be significant from a competition perspective. 


SWM – proposed acquisition of The Sunday Times and perthnow.com.au 
Page 14 of 15 
 
The ACCC understands that much of the local Western Australian news and 
70.
information in The Sunday Times, The West Australian / The Weekend West and 
related online news sites is supplied in-house by journalists rather than acquired 
from third parties.  
 
Accordingly, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is 
71.
unlikely to raise competition concerns in any relevant market for the acquisition 
of content from content suppliers. 
Issue unlikely to raise concern – competition between the 
online sites for advertisers  
 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to raise 
72.
competition concerns in relation to online advertising.  
 
With respect to the provision of advertising opportunities on SWM and News’ 
73.
online news platforms, the ACCC is considering the level of competitive 
constraint on the parties from other websites. To the extent that advertisers seek 
only to place advertisements before the “eyeballs” of online users, it may be the 
case that other online platforms (such as Google and Facebook) represent 
alternative options for advertisers. This would be the case even though these 
services may not represent alternatives from a product perspective for readers.  
 
The ACCC considers that for most Western Australian businesses that use 
74.
online advertising, there are likely to be a range of sites where they can 
advertise, not just news sites. In particular, advertising may be configured to 
target Western Australians, as websites can often detect the location of the user, 
and target the advertisements accordingly.  
 
The ACCC is also considering the degree to which losing advertising revenues 
75.
to these other online advertising options acts as a constraint in relation to the 
quality of online content. That is, the ACCC is still considering whether the desire 
to maintain online advertising revenues may constrain publishers to produce 
high quality online news content at low prices for readers in order to maintain 
readership and therefore, the attractiveness of their site for advertisers. 
Other considerations 
 
Conditional on the proposed acquisition proceeding, SWM and News also 
76.
propose to enter into the following arrangements: 
 
Content sharing arrangements whereby News and SWM are licensed to 
publish each other’s’ print and digital content in certain of their own 
publications on a non-exclusive basis for a period of 4 years 
 
Advertising re-sale arrangements whereby News and SWM are permitted 
to re-sell advertising space in each other’s print and digital publications for 
a period of 12 months, and 
 
Printing and distribution arrangements whereby SWM will print and 
distribute The Australian for News in Western Australia and print and 
distribute certain community newspapers in Western Australia.  


SWM – proposed acquisition of The Sunday Times and perthnow.com.au 
Page 15 of 15 
 
These proposed sharing arrangements are relevant to the ACCC’s assessment 
77.
of the likely competitive conditions in the future with the proposed acquisition.  
ACCC's future steps 
 
The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions 
78.
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
 
As noted above, the ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on 
79.
each of the issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue 
that may be relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. Submissions are 
to be received by the ACCC no later than 18 August 2016 and should be 
emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the subject: Submission re: West 
Australian Newspapers/News - attention Jason Byrne /Mandy Bendelstein. If you 
would like to discuss the matter with ACCC officers over the telephone or in 
person, or have any questions about this Statement of Issues, please contact 
Mandy Bendelstein on (02) 9230 3890 or Jason Byrne on (02) 6243 1279. 
 
The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 15 September 2016. 
80.
However the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment may be 
published following the ACCC's public announcement, to explain its final view. 
