 
Page 1 of 7 
 
Public Competition Assessment 
11 November 2020 
Elanco - proposed acquisition of Bayer’s animal health 
business  
 
The ACCC’s decision 
1. 
On 9 July 2020, the ACCC announced its decision not to oppose the proposed 
acquisition by Elanco Animal Health Incorporated (Elanco) of Bayer 
Aktiengesellschaft’s (Bayer) Australian animal health business  (the proposed 
acquisition) after accepting a section 87B undertaking to divest the Avenge+ 
Fly, Drontal, Profender and Droncit brands (the Undertaking). 
2. 
The ACCC considers that the proposed acquisition, taking into account the 
divestitures required by the Undertaking, is unlikely to contravene section 50 of 
the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the Act). Section 50 prohibits 
acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of 
substantially lessening competition in any market. 
3. 
The ACCC considers that without the divestments, the proposed acquisition is 
likely to substantially lessen competition in the markets for sheep lice treatments, 
and gastrointestinal worming treatments for companion animals. The ACCC also 
considers that the global divestment of Elanco’s Osurnia brand to Dechra is 
likely to remedy the loss of future competition between Elanco and Bayer in the 
market for otitis treatments. 
4. 
This Public Competition Assessment outlines reasons for the decision by the 
ACCC not to oppose the proposed acquisition.  
5. 
Please note that this and other public competition assessments are subject to 
the following qualifications: 
 
The ACCC considers each transaction on a case-by-case basis and so the 
analysis and decision outlined in one assessment will not necessarily 
reflect the ACCC’s view of another transaction.  
 
As assessments are relatively brief and do not refer to confidential 
information, assessments do not necessarily set out all of the issues and 
information considered by the ACCC.  


 
Page 2 of 7 
The parties and the transaction 
The acquirer: Elanco 
6. 
Elanco is a global animal health company that develops, manufactures and 
markets products to prevent and treat diseases in companion and production 
animals. It was formed in 1954 as the animal health division of Eli Lilly and was 
spun off on 11 March 2019.  
The target: Bayer’s animal health business 
7. 
Founded in 1863, Bayer is a global pharmaceutical and life sciences company 
active in the areas of pharmaceuticals, consumer health, crop science and 
animal health. Bayer Animal Health is the Bayer Group’s animal health division.  
The transaction 
8. 
Elanco proposes to acquire Bayer’s animal health business, which covers the 
development and distribution of prescription and non-prescription products for 
production and companion animals. 
Review timeline 
9. 
The total elapsed time from start to finish was approximately seven months.  
However, the total period net of time taken by the parties to submit information or 
documents was 59 business days.  
Market inquiries 
10. The ACCC conducted market inquiries with a range of industry participants, 
including competitors, potential competitors, customers, industry associations 
and other interested parties. Submissions were sought in relation to the 
substantive competition issues and the proposed Undertaking. 
Market definition 
11. The ACCC’s starting point for considering which markets will be affected by the 
proposed acquisition is to identify the areas of overlap between the products 
actually or potentially supplied by the merger parties. The ACCC then considers 
other actual or potential suppliers of those products, as well as what other 
products constitute sufficiently close substitutes to provide a significant source of 
constraint on the merged entity. 
12. The ACCC focused on competition between products which treated particular 
pathologies in each species of animal. The ACCC’s investigation showed that 
consumers typically choose products to prevent or treat specific parasite/s for 
their pets or livestock, and look to efficacy rather than understanding the 
particular chemical classes or active ingredients. Accordingly, the ACCC 
considers that products with claims to treat certain conditions are most likely to 
compete strongly with products making similar claims, regardless of the 
underlying chemical components.  


 
Page 3 of 7 
13. The ACCC considered the competitive effects of the proposed acquisition in the 
following markets:  
 
Gastrointestinal worming treatments for companion animals 
 
Companion animal endectocides 
 
External parasite treatments for companion animals 
 
Otitis treatments 
 
Sheep lice treatments 
 
Cattle tick treatments, and 
 
Cattle fluke treatments. 
14. The ACCC’s review focused on the markets for sheep lice treatments and 
gastrointestinal worming treatments for companion animals as these were the 
only areas of overlap which raised competition concerns. 
Whether product rotation effects market definition 
15. For some production animal treatments it is recommended that consumers rotate 
different chemical classes to avoid parasites building resistance. It was put to the 
ACCC that this effectively meant these products marketed by the parties 
provided limited competitive constraint on each other, because consumers would 
be required to regularly switch between Elanco’s and Bayer’s brands as they are 
in different chemical classes.  
16. The ACCC considers that even though these products are recommended for 
rotation, they still compete closely with each other. Not all consumers will rotate 
products and the timing and extent of rotation will vary. Market feedback 
indicated that products designed to treat the same parasite compete closely, 
regardless of the active ingredients.  
17. Therefore, the ACCC considers that, for the purpose of analysing the likely 
competitive effect of the proposed acquisition, different chemical classes treating 
the same target pathology are in the same market. 
Gastrointestinal worming products for companion animal 
18. There are two categories of products that can treat gastrointestinal worms. 
Endectocides, which are broad spectrum products and also treat external 
parasites as well as gastrointestinal worms, and treatments for gastrointestinal 
worms only. Whilst some consumers may purchase an endectocide to treat 
gastrointestinal worms along with external parasites, the relevant issue in 
considering whether gastrointestinal worming treatments for companion animals 
are in a separate market to endectocides is whether consumers are likely to 
switch from one product to another in response to a change in relative price, 
service or quality.  


 
Page 4 of 7 
19. Market feedback indicated that there are a significant number of consumers that 
require worming-only treatments for their pets, and that in this category of 
products Elanco’s Milbemax competes closely with Bayer’s Drontal and 
Profender brands.  
20. Market feedback also indicated that although endectocides can treat 
gastrointestinal worms, they are primarily marketed as flea and tick treatments. 
This same feedback indicated that it is unlikely that there would be sufficient 
substitution by consumers who do not need to treat their pets for external 
parasites to endectocides in response to a small but significant increase in the 
price of gastrointestinal worming products. 
21. Therefore, for the purpose of analysing this proposed acquisition, the ACCC 
considers that products which solely treat gastrointestinal worms are in a 
separate market to endectocides. 
Competition analysis 
22. The ACCC analysed a range of information, including internal documents and 
financial information from Elanco and Bayer. The ACCC also conducted 
extensive market inquiries with interested parties. 
23. For production animals, the ACCC identified competition concerns in the market 
for sheep lice treatments. For companion animals, the ACCC had concerns with 
the markets for gastrointestinal worming products and otitis treatments.  
24. The ACCC considers that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to raise concerns 
in the following markets: 
 
External parasite treatments for companion animals 
 
Companion animal endectocides 
 
Cattle fluke treatments, and 
 
Cattle tick treatments.  
25. In relation to the markets for external parasite treatments for companion animals, 
companion animal endectocides and cattle fluke treatments, the ACCC 
considers that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to substantially lessen 
competition due to the number and strength of competing products. In relation to 
cattle tick treatments, the ACCC considers that Bayer has a limited presence in 
this market, such that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to remove a constraint 
on Elanco. 
Sheep lice treatments 
26. Elanco and Bayer are the two largest suppliers of sheep lice treatments in 
Australia, and the proposed acquisition would result in Elanco being the 
dominant supplier with approximately 70 per cent market share1 post-acquisition.  
                                                 
1 Baron Strategic Services 


 
Page 5 of 7 
27. The ACCC considers that other sheep lice treatments, including generic and 
rural retailers’ private label products, are unlikely to be a sufficient constraint on 
Elanco as: 
 
Consumers are primarily concerned with efficacy of a product, and will 
typically purchase products they have previously had good results with 
rather than using untrusted products and risking re-infestation which would 
require additional treatment. This behaviour has led to strong brand loyalty 
in the market. 
 
Elanco’s Extinosad and Bayer’s Avenge+ Fly are perceived to have 
superior efficacy and, in line with the point above, are the brands that are 
most likely to be stocked by agricultural retailers. 
 
Lice infestations can reduce the sale price of wool by $35 - $40 per sheep, 
whereas treatments typically cost $1 - $1.50 per sheep. As such, 
consumers are unlikely to switch to other products, including unproven 
generic and private labels in response to small but significant price 
increases. 
28. Accordingly, the ACCC concluded that the proposed acquisition would remove 
the closest constraint on Elanco in the sale of sheep lice treatments.  
29. To remedy the ACCC’s concerns, Elanco gave the Undertaking to the ACCC 
pursuant to s87B of the Act to divest the Avenge+ Fly brand (the Avenge Sheep 
Lice Business) to an ACCC approved purchaser. Avenge+ Fly is a strong brand 
with a significant share of the market. The divestment is intended to enable a 
new or existing supplier of sheep lice treatments to replace the competitive 
constraint that would have been lost as a result of the proposed acquisition.  
30. Taking into account the divestitures required by the Undertaking, the ACCC’s 
view is that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to substantially lessen 
competition in the market for the supply of sheep lice treatments in Australia. 
Further information about the Undertaking is set out below. 
Gastrointestinal worming treatments for companion animals 
31. The ACCC was concerned that the proposed acquisition would remove Elanco’s 
closest competitor in the market for gastrointestinal worming treatments in 
Australia. Post-acquisition, Elanco would have a market share of approximately 
45 per cent.2 
32. Information available to the ACCC indicated that Elanco’s Milbemax and Bayer’s 
Drontal brands are each other’s closest competitors, with strong brand 
recognition. Market feedback indicated that consumers are typically brand loyal 
as trust in the safety and efficacy of a product are the most important factors 
when consumers choose products for their pets.  
33. The ACCC found that generic products, including generics of the parties’ 
products, do not have a significant market share, are not widely available in the 
major retail outlets and are not perceived to have the same efficacy of Elanco’s 
                                                 
2 Baron Strategic Services 


 
Page 6 of 7 
and Bayer’s products. As such, the ACCC considers that other gastrointestinal 
worming treatments, including generics, are unlikely to impose a sufficient 
constraint on Elanco post-acquisition. 
34. To remedy this concern, Elanco gave the Undertaking to the ACCC pursuant to 
s87B of the Act to divest the Drontal, Profender and Droncit brands (the 
Companion Animal Business) to an ACCC approved purchaser. The 
divestment of these brands removes the overlap between Elanco and Bayer in 
gastrointestinal worming products for companion animals. 
35. Taking into account the divestitures required by the Undertaking, the ACCC 
concluded the proposed acquisition is unlikely to substantially lessen competition 
in the market for the supply of gastrointestinal worming treatments for 
companion animals. Further information about the Undertaking is set out below. 
Otitis treatments 
36. The ACCC was concerned that the proposed acquisition would remove 
competition between Elanco and Bayer for the supply of otitis treatments in 
Australia. Elanco’s Osurnia and Bayer’s Neptra products are the only two long 
acting otitis treatments with regulatory approval in Australia, with the balance 
being short acting treatments. Short acting treatments require owners to treat 
their pets daily for one week or longer, by dropping an ointment in their ears. 
Whereas long acting treatments require only one or two treatments, 
administered by a vet.  
37. The ACCC considers that the significant difference in application means that 
long acting treatments are more likely to be competitively constrained by other 
long acting treatments. The ACCC was therefore concerned that the proposed 
acquisition would have the effect of substantially lessening competition in the 
supply of otitis treatments. 
38. Ultimately the ACCC did not need to reach a concluded view on the potential 
impact on competition in relation to otitis treatments, as Elanco agreed to divest 
the global rights for Osurnia to Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC. Dechra completed 
the global acquisition 28 July 2020.3 This divestment removes any overlap 
between Elanco and Bayer in long acting treatments and thus removes any 
potential competition concern.  
Undertaking 
39. In order to address the ACCC’s competition concerns in relation to the markets 
for sheep lice treatments and gastrointestinal worming treatments, Elanco 
offered the Undertaking pursuant to section 87B of the Act. The ACCC spoke to 
a range of market participants about the Undertaking, including potential 
purchasers. 
40. The ACCC concluded that the Undertaking addressed its competition concerns 
with the proposed acquisition. A copy of the Undertaking is available on the 
ACCC mergers register and undertakings register. 
                                                 
3 https://otp.investis.com/clients/uk/dechra/rns/regulatory-
story.aspx?cid=1758&newsid=1404299  


 
Page 7 of 7 
41. A brief summary of the Undertaking offered by Elanco is set out below: 
 
Elanco will divest the Avenge Sheep Lice Business, and the Companion 
Animal Business (the Divestment Businesses), either to a single or 
separate ACCC-approved purchasers. Divestiture will include all necessary 
assets including inventory, business records, contracts, regulatory 
approvals, and intellectual property rights. 
 
At the option of the ACCC-approved purchaser(s), Elanco must: 
o supply any technical assistance 
o transfer necessary personnel, and 
o ensure the continued supply of goods or services 
which are necessary for the operation of the divestment brands, and are 
required by a purchaser to establish itself as a competitor in the relevant 
markets. 
 
Elanco must appoint an ACCC approved independent manager to manage 
the Divestment Businesses from completion of the proposed acquisition 
until the divestiture of the Divestment Businesses. 
 
Elanco must appoint an ACCC approved independent auditor to monitor 
Elanco’s overall compliance with the Undertaking. 
Conclusion 
42. Based on the above analysis, the ACCC considers  that the proposed acquisition 
of Bayer Group’s Australian animal health business by Elanco, taking into 
account the divestitures required by the Undertaking, is not likely to have the 
effect of substantially lessening competition in any relevant market. 
