 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Undertaking to the Australian 
Competition and Consumer 
Commission 
 
 
 
Given under section 87B of the Competition and 
Consumer Act 2010 (Cth) by  
 
Elanco Animal Health Incorporated and Elanco 
Australasia Pty Ltd (ACN 076 745 198) 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
Contents 
 
1. 
Person giving the Undertaking ................................................................................... 1 
2. 
Background .................................................................................................................... 1 
3. 
Commencement of this Undertaking ......................................................................... 2 
4. 
Cessation of Ongoing Obligations ............................................................................ 2 
5. 
Divestiture of the Divestiture Businesses ................................................................ 3 
6. 
Process for approving a proposed purchaser ......................................................... 6 
7. 
Divestiture Business Protection ................................................................................ 7 
8. 
Independent Management of the Divestiture Business ......................................... 9 
9. 
Independent Audit ...................................................................................................... 13 
10. 
Failure to divest the Divestiture Businesses within the Initial Sale Period . 18 
11. 
Notification of key dates and ACCC requests for information ....................... 22 
12. 
Disclosure of this Undertaking ............................................................................ 23 
13. 
Obligation to procure ............................................................................................. 24 
14. 
No Derogation ......................................................................................................... 24 
15. 
Change of Control .................................................................................................. 24 
16. 
Costs ......................................................................................................................... 25 
17. 
Jurisdiction .............................................................................................................. 25 
18. 
Notices ..................................................................................................................... 25 
19. 
Defined terms and interpretation ......................................................................... 26 
Schedule 1 – Dictionary and interpretation .............................................................................. 29 
Schedule 2 – Proposed Purchaser Notice Form ......................................................................... 35 
Schedule 3 – Undertaking Appointment ................................................................................... 37 
Schedule 4 – Divestiture Businesses ......................................................................................... 41 
Confidential Schedule 5 ............................................................................................................ 49 
 


1 
 
1. 
Person giving the Undertaking 
1.1. 
This Undertaking is given to the Australian Competition and Consumer 
Commission (ACCC) by Elanco Animal Health Incorporated and its Subsidiary 
Elanco Australasia Pty Ltd (ACN 076 745 198) (together, Elanco). 
2. 
Background 
The parties to the proposed acquisition 
2.1. 
Acquirer: Elanco is a global animal health company that develops, manufactures 
and markets products to prevent and treat diseases in farm and companion 
animals. Elanco was formed in 1954 as the animal health division of Eli Lilly and 
Company and became a fully independent company on 11 March 2019.  Elanco 
is headquartered in Indiana and listed on the New York Stock Exchange. Elanco 
operates in Australia through its Subsidiary Elanco Australasia Pty Ltd (ACN 076 
745 198); and  
2.2. 
Vendor: Bayer AG is a global pharmaceutical and life sciences company active 
in the areas of pharmaceuticals, consumer health and crop science, and animal 
health. Bayer AG is based in Leverkusen, Germany, and its common stock is 
publicly traded on various stock exchanges around the world, including the 
Frankfurt Stock Exchange and the Deutsche Borse Xetra. Bayer operates its 
animal health business in Australia through its Subsidiary Bayer Australia Ltd 
(ACN 000 138 714). 
The Proposed Acquisition 
2.3. 
On 20 August 2019, Elanco Animal Health Incorporated and Bayer AG entered 
into a share and asset purchase agreement under which Elanco will purchase 
Bayer AG’s animal health business, subject to regulatory approvals (the 
Proposed Acquisition).    
The ACCC’s review 
2.4. 
On 20 December 2019, the ACCC commenced its public review of the Proposed 
Acquisition. 
2.5. 
The ACCC undertook market inquiries and considered information provided by 
the parties to the Proposed Acquisition, industry participants and others. The 
purpose of the ACCC’s inquiries was to assess whether the Proposed Acquisition 
would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of substantially lessening 
competition in any market in Australia in contravention of section 50 of the Act. 
The ACCC’s competition concerns 
2.6. 
The ACCC is concerned that, in the absence of the Undertaking, the Proposed 
Acquisition may have the effect, or may be likely to have the effect, of 
substantially lessening competition in the markets for: 
(a) the supply of sheep lice products in Australia (Sheep Lice Market), and 
(b) the supply of gastro intestinal worming treatments for companion animals in 
Australia (Gastro Intestinal Worming Market).  


2 
 
2.7. 
In the Sheep Lice Market, the ACCC is concerned that the Proposed Acquisition 
would combine the largest suppliers of sheep lice treatments, resulting in Elanco 
being the dominant supplier of sheep lice treatments post-acquisition. The ACCC 
was concerned that Elanco would have the incentive and ability to increase prices 
for its sheep lice treatments post-acquisition. In the Gastro Intestinal Worming 
Market, the ACCC is concerned that the Proposed Acquisition would remove one 
of Elanco’s closest competitors and therefore be likely to lead to increased prices.  
The Undertaking remedy 
2.8. 
Elanco does not consider that the Proposed Acquisition would have the effect, or 
be likely to have the effect, of substantially lessening competition in any relevant 
market. However, to address the ACCC’s competition concerns, Elanco has 
offered this Undertaking pursuant to section 87B of the Act. 
2.9. 
The objective of this Undertaking is to address the ACCC’s competition concerns 
as set out above that would otherwise arise as a consequence of the Proposed 
Acquisition. The Undertaking aims to achieve this objective by placing obligations 
on Elanco: 
(a) to ensure that the Avenge Sheep Lice Business and the Companion Animal 
Business (each a Divestiture Business and together, the Divestiture 
Businesses) are sold to one or more Approved Purchasers;  
(b) that will result in the creation or strengthening of a viable, effective, stand-
alone, independent and long-term competitor(s) in the Sheep Lice Market 
and Gastro Intestinal Worming Market; 
 
(c) 
to ensure the purchaser(s) of the Divestiture Businesses has all the 
necessary associated assets and rights to compete effectively with Elanco 
in the Sheep Lice Market and Gastro Intestinal Worming Market; 
(d) to maintain the economic viability, marketability, competitiveness and 
goodwill of the Divestiture Businesses prior to divestiture; and  
(e) to provide for the effective oversight of Elanco’s compliance with this 
Undertaking. 
3. 
Commencement of this Undertaking 
3.1. 
This Undertaking comes into effect when: 
(a) 
this Undertaking is executed by Elanco; and 
(b) 
this Undertaking so executed is accepted by the ACCC 
(the Commencement Date). 
 
4. 
Cessation of Ongoing Obligations 
Withdrawal 
4.1. 
Elanco may request withdrawal of this Undertaking pursuant to section 87B of the 
Act at any time. This Undertaking is taken to be withdrawn on the date the ACCC 
consents in writing to that withdrawal. 


3 
 
Revocation 
4.2. 
The ACCC may, at any time, revoke its acceptance of this Undertaking if the 
ACCC becomes aware that any information provided to it was incorrect, 
inaccurate or misleading.  
Waiver 
4.3. 
The ACCC may, at any time, expressly waive in writing any of the obligations 
contained in this Undertaking or extend the date by which any such obligation is 
to be satisfied. 
Survival 
4.4. 
Unless and until this Undertaking is withdrawn in accordance with clause 4.1, 
clauses 1, 2, 3, 4, 9, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 and 17 survive completion of the 
obligations in clauses 5, 6, 7, 8, 10, Schedule 4 and Confidential Schedule 5. 
5. 
Divestiture of the Divestiture Businesses 
Divestiture  
5.1. 
Elanco must, in accordance with this Undertaking, divest, or cause the divestiture 
of, the Divestiture Businesses only to an Approved Purchaser.  
5.2. 
In the event that clause 10 applies, Elanco must not authorise the Approved 
Divestiture Agent to divest any Divestiture Business to a purchaser other than an 
Approved Purchaser. 
5.3. 
Elanco must divest, or cause the divestiture of, the Divestiture Businesses by:  
(a) the sale, assignment, novation, transfer and/or licence of all of the assets in 
Schedule 4 to one or more Approved Purchasers, pursuant to one or more 
Approved Sale and Purchase Agreements and within the Initial Sale Period, 
otherwise clause 10 applies; 
(b) the transfer or grant to the Approved Purchaser(s) of Consents pursuant to 
clauses 5.4 to 5.5; 
(c) 
the transfer of any Transferred Personnel required pursuant to clauses 5.7 
to 5.8; 
(d) compliance with any Approved Transitional Technical Assistance 
Agreement required pursuant to clauses 5.9 to 5.11; and 
(e) compliance with any Approved Transitional Supply Agreement required 
pursuant to clauses 5.12 to 5.14. 
Consents 
5.4. 
Elanco must:  
(a) obtain or assist the Approved Purchaser(s) to obtain as expeditiously as 
possible, all Consents as required before completion of the divestiture of the 
Divestiture Businesses; 


4 
 
(b) comply with all requirements necessary to obtain any Consents, including 
by promptly providing all information necessary for the Consents to be 
given; 
(c) 
act in good faith in its negotiations with the Approved Purchaser(s) in 
relation to obtaining any Consents; 
(d) promptly pay the costs and expenses of any third party reasonably incurred 
in providing the Consents; and 
(e) enter an agreement with the Approved Purchaser(s) which is approved by 
the ACCC, or vary any existing Approved Transitional Supply Agreement as 
required by the Approved Purchaser(s), in relation to any goods or services 
that are required for the operation of the relevant Divestiture Business which 
may be affected by any failure to gain a Consent. 
5.5. 
If, seven Business Days before completion of the divestiture of the relevant 
Divestiture Business, the relevant Approved Purchaser does not or is otherwise 
unable to obtain one or more Consents, then Elanco must: 
(a)  immediately provide to the ACCC in writing details of the: 
(i) 
Consents that have not been obtained; 
(ii) 
reasons why the Consents have not been obtained; and 
(iii) 
information or material required to obtain the Consents. 
(b) continue to do everything in its power to satisfy clause 5.4 as soon as 
possible after the completion of the divestiture of the relevant Divestiture 
Business (and until such time as clause 5.4  is satisfied).    
5.6. 
Even if Elanco has complied with clause 5.4 to 5.5, it remains a breach of this 
Undertaking if Elanco is unable to effect the divestiture of a Divestiture Business 
by reason that one or more Consents are not obtained.  
Transferred Personnel  
5.7. 
At the option of an Approved Purchaser, Elanco must transfer to the Approved 
Purchaser:  
(a) all employees necessary for the operation of the relevant Divestiture 
Business; and 
(b) all service providers under a contract for service necessary for the operation 
of the relevant Divestiture Business; 
who are, in the view of the Approved Purchaser, required for the Approved 
Purchaser to maintain, operate or conduct effectively the relevant Divestiture 
Business and who consent to the transfer of their employment or contract for 
service to the Approved Purchaser (Transferred Personnel). 
5.8. 
When fulfilling its obligations under clause 5.7, Elanco must:  
(a) encourage all Transferred Personnel to remain with the relevant Divestiture 
Business, including offering incentives based on industry practice;  


5 
 
(b) not directly or indirectly discourage any Transferred Personnel from any 
obligations to provide services to the relevant Divestiture Business; 
(c) 
effective on the date of the divestiture of the relevant Divestiture Business, 
release the Transferred Personnel from any obligations to provide services 
to Elanco;  
(d) effective on the date of the divestiture of the relevant Divestiture Business, 
release the Transferred Personnel from any non-compete or similar restraint 
of trade obligation, to the extent that such an obligation would otherwise 
prevent the person from performing his or her contemplated role in relation 
to the relevant Divestiture Business or Unsold Business; and 
(e) not procure, promote or encourage the transfer of any of the Transferred 
Personnel of the relevant Divestiture Business from the relevant Approved 
Purchaser to Elanco for a period of 12 months after the completion of the 
divestiture of the relevant Divestiture Business. 
Technical Assistance 
5.9. 
At the option of the Approved Purchaser(s), Elanco must supply to the Approved 
Purchaser(s), under an Approved Transitional Technical Assistance Agreement, 
any Technical Assistance that is required by the Approved Purchaser(s) in order 
to operate the relevant Divestiture Business. 
5.10. 
Elanco must ensure that any Approved Transitional Technical Assistance 
Agreement, and any renewal or extension of an Approved Transitional Technical 
Assistance Agreement, provides for the supply of Technical Assistance:  
(a) on a transitional basis for a period that is nominated by the Approved 
Purchaser and approved in writing by the ACCC; and 
(b) at cost and otherwise on arm’s length terms.  
5.11. 
To avoid doubt, Elanco must seek prior written approval from the ACCC of any 
renewal or extension of an Approved Transitional Technical Assistance 
Agreement. Without limiting the ACCC’s discretion, in making a decision on 
whether to approve a renewal or extension of an Approved Transitional Technical 
Assistance Agreement, the ACCC will have regard to the criteria set out in 
clauses 5.9 and 5.10.  
Transitional Supply Agreements  
5.12. 
At the option of the Approved Purchaser(s), Elanco must ensure the continued 
supply by Elanco to the Approved Purchaser(s), under an Approved Transitional 
Supply Agreement, of any goods or services that are required by the Approved 
Purchaser(s) in order for the Approved Purchaser to be established as a viable, 
effective, stand-alone, independent and long-term competitor in the Sheep Lice 
Market and/or Gastro Intestinal Worming Market.  
5.13. 
Elanco must ensure that any Approved Transitional Supply Agreement and any 
renewal or extension of an Approved Transitional Supply Agreement:  
(a) is for a reasonable transitional period, to be nominated by the Approved 
Purchaser and approved in writing by the ACCC; 
(b) provides for the supply or re-supply of the included goods and services at 
cost price; and 


6 
 
(c) 
is on such terms other than price which are no less favourable to the 
Approved Purchaser than arm's length terms.  
5.14. 
To avoid doubt, Elanco must seek prior written approval from the ACCC of any 
renewal or extension of an Approved Transitional Supply Agreement. Without 
limiting the ACCC’s discretion, in making a decision on whether to approve a 
renewal or extension of an Approved Transitional Supply Agreement, the ACCC 
will have regard to the criteria set out in clauses 5.12 and 5.13.  
6. 
Process for approving a proposed purchaser 
Potential purchasers 
6.1. 
Elanco must provide the ACCC and Approved Independent Auditor with: 
(a) the identity of any person who expresses an interest in acquiring a 
Divestiture Business;  
(b) the status of negotiations with each person; and  
(c) 
a copy of each person’s offer to acquire a Divestiture Business or 
Divestiture Businesses, where relevant; 
at the following times: 
(d) as soon as possible following the Commencement Date for those persons 
who express interest before the Commencement Date;  
(e) after the Commencement Date, within 10 Business Days of each person 
expressing the interest and/or providing an offer;  
regardless of whether the person subsequently withdraws or is declined. 
Provision of a notice for a Proposed Purchaser  
6.2. 
To seek ACCC approval for a Proposed Purchaser, Elanco or the Approved 
Divestiture Agent must provide the ACCC with a notice in the form prescribed in 
Schedule 2 to this Undertaking (Proposed Purchaser Notice), including a draft 
sale and purchase agreement, a draft transitional technical assistance agreement 
(where required by the Proposed Purchaser), and a draft transitional supply 
agreement (where required by the Proposed Purchaser). 
6.3. 
The Proposed Purchaser Notice(s) must be provided to the ACCC at least 
20 Business Days prior to the end of the Initial Sale Period.  
Approval of a Proposed Purchaser after the Commencement Date  
6.4. 
The ACCC shall have the discretion to approve or reject in writing the Proposed 
Purchaser identified in the Proposed Purchaser Notice, which includes 
consideration of:  
(a) the draft sale and purchase agreement attached to the Proposed Purchaser 
Notice;  
(b) any draft transitional technical assistance agreement attached to the 
Proposed Purchaser Notice, in accordance with the criteria in clauses 5.9 
and 5.10; and 


7 
 
(c) 
any draft transitional supply agreement attached to the Proposed Purchaser 
Notice, in accordance with the criteria in clauses 5.12 and 5.13. 
6.5. 
Without limiting the ACCC’s discretion, in making the decision pursuant to clause 
6.4, the factors to which the ACCC may have regard include whether the:  
(a) draft sale and purchase agreement is consistent with this Undertaking;  
(b) Proposed Purchaser will complete the transaction as contemplated by the 
draft sale and purchase agreement;  
(c) 
Proposed Purchaser is independent of Elanco;  
(d) Proposed Purchaser is of good financial standing;  
(e) Proposed Purchaser has an intention to maintain and operate the 
Divestiture Business as a going concern; 
(f) 
Proposed Purchaser is able to conduct the Divestiture Business effectively; 
(g) divestiture of the Divestiture Business to the Proposed Purchaser will 
address any competition concerns of the ACCC in the Sheep Lice Market 
and/or Gastro Intestinal Worming Market (as applicable), including in 
relation to the likely long-term viability and competitiveness of the Divestiture 
Business under the ownership of the Proposed Purchaser. 
6.6. 
The ACCC may revoke an Approved Purchaser’s status as the Approved 
Purchaser if the ACCC becomes aware that any information provided to it was 
incorrect, inaccurate or misleading. 
7. 
Divestiture Business Protection 
Protection of the Divestiture Business 
7.1. 
From the Control Date, Elanco must not sell or transfer its interest, or any assets 
comprising part of, or used in, a Divestiture Business (other than the sale of 
goods and services in the ordinary course of business) or make any Material 
Change, except in accordance with this Undertaking or (subject to the other terms 
of this Undertaking) as necessary to allow completion of the Proposed 
Acquisition.   
Elanco’s obligations in relation to the Divestiture Businesses prior to completion 
of divestiture 
7.2. 
Without limiting this clause 7, Elanco must, from the Control Date until completion 
of the divestiture of the Divestiture Businesses, take all steps available to it to:  
(a) ensure that the Divestiture Businesses are managed and operated in the 
ordinary course of business as a fully operational, competitive going concern 
and in such a way that preserves the economic viability, marketability, 
competitiveness and goodwill of the Divestiture Businesses at the Control 
Date; 
(b) continue to provide access to working capital and sources of credit for the 
Divestiture Businesses in a manner which is consistent with the financing of 
the Divestiture Businesses before the Control Date;  


8 
 
(c) 
continue to provide administrative and technical support for the Divestiture 
Businesses in a manner which is consistent with the operation of the 
Divestiture Businesses before the Control Date and in accordance with any 
plans established before the Control Date; 
(d) continue existing Agreements relating to the Divestiture Businesses with 
customers, suppliers and/or other third parties that are in place at the 
Control Date; 
(e) renew or replace upon expiry Material Contracts for the provision of goods 
or services to the Divestiture Businesses on commercial terms favourable to 
the Divestiture Business; 
(f) 
maintain the supply of those goods and services that are part of the 
Divestiture Businesses to existing customers in a manner consistent with the 
supply of those goods and services as at the Control Date; 
(g) maintain the standard of manufacture, distribution, promotion and sale of 
those products which form part of the Divestiture Businesses as at the 
Control Date; and 
(h) carry out promotion and marketing of the products which form part of the 
Divestiture Businesses in accordance with any plans established before the 
Control Date, or such other plans which the Independent Manager considers 
necessary to maintain the Divestiture Businesses as an ongoing competitive 
concern.  
Personnel of Elanco 
7.3. 
From the Control Date until completion of the divestiture of the Divestiture 
Businesses, Elanco must:  
(a) in consultation with the Approved Independent Manager, replace any 
(i) 
Transferred Personnel; or  
(ii) 
if the Transferred Personnel have not yet been identified, any 
personnel necessary for the operation of the Divestiture Businesses;  
who leave or will leave the Divestiture Businesses before divestiture; 
(b) not terminate or vary the terms of employment or engagement (or agree to 
do any of those things) of any of the  
(i) 
Transferred Personnel; or  
(ii) 
if the Transferred Personnel have not yet been identified, any 
personnel necessary for the operation of the Divestiture Businesses; 
and  
other than for cause (such as serious breach of a Transferred Personnel’s 
employment contract, including serious misconduct that might harm the 
reputation of any Divestiture Business or Elanco, or otherwise contravene 
the law or give rise to a legal liability); and 
(c) 
not directly or indirectly procure, promote or encourage the redeployment of 
personnel necessary for the operation of the Divestiture Businesses as at 
the Control Date to any other business operated by Elanco. 


9 
 
7.4. 
As soon as practicable after the Commencement Date, Elanco must direct its 
personnel, including directors, contractors, managers, officers, employees and 
agents not to do anything inconsistent with Elanco’s obligations under this 
Undertaking. 
Elanco’s ongoing obligations in relation to the Divestiture Business 
7.5. 
To the extent Elanco has obligations in relation to the provision of transitional 
technical assistance or continued supply pursuant to clauses 5.9 to 5.14 of this 
Undertaking in relation to the Divestiture Businesses, Elanco must not sell, 
assign, transfer, and/or licence directly or indirectly any of the assets necessary 
to fulfil such obligations without the prior written consent of the ACCC.  
Confidential Information 
7.6. 
Subject to clause 7.7, Elanco must not, at any time from the Control Date, use or 
disclose any confidential information about the Divestiture Businesses gained 
through:  
(a) ownership and/or management of the Divestiture Businesses; or 
(b) fulfilling any obligations pursuant to this Undertaking. 
7.7. 
Clause 7.6 does not apply to information that Elanco requires to:  
(a) comply with legal and regulatory obligations including obligations relating to 
taxation, accounting, financial reporting or stock exchange disclosure 
requirements; or 
(b) carry out its obligations pursuant to this Undertaking; 
provided such information is only used for that purpose and is only disclosed to 
those officers, employees, contractors and advisers of Elanco who need to know 
the information to carry out the permitted purpose. 
8. 
Independent Management of the Divestiture Business 
Obligation to appoint an Approved Independent Manager 
8.1. 
Elanco must appoint and maintain an Approved Independent Manager to manage 
the Divestiture Businesses, from the Control Date until the completion of the 
divestiture of the Divestiture Businesses in accordance with this Undertaking.  
Process for approving a Proposed Independent Manager 
8.2. 
At least 15 Business Days before the Control Date, Elanco must provide the 
ACCC with a notice for a Proposed Independent Manager in the form prescribed 
in Schedule 3 to this Undertaking (Proposed Independent Manager Notice), 
including a draft terms of appointment and a draft separation and management 
plan. 
8.3. 
If clauses 8.12, 8.13 or 8.14 apply, Elanco must provide the ACCC with a 
Proposed Independent Manager Notice within five Business Days after the 
relevant event occurs, otherwise clause 8.8 applies. 
8.4. 
The ACCC shall have the discretion to approve or reject in writing the Proposed 
Independent Manager identified in a Proposed Independent Manager Notice. 


10 
 
8.5. 
Without limiting the ACCC’s discretion, in deciding whether to approve a 
Proposed Independent Manager, the factors to which the ACCC may have regard 
include whether the:  
(a) person named in the Proposed Independent Manager Notice or identified by 
the ACCC has the qualifications and experience necessary to manage the 
Divestiture Businesses;  
(b) person named in the Proposed Independent Manager Notice or identified by 
the ACCC is sufficiently independent of Elanco;  
(c) 
draft terms of appointment and the draft separation and management plan 
are consistent with this Undertaking; and 
(d) draft terms of appointment and the draft separation and management plan 
are otherwise acceptable to the ACCC. 
Appointment of the Approved Independent Manager 
8.6. 
 After receiving a written notice from the ACCC of its approval of the Proposed 
Independent Manager, the draft terms of appointment and draft separation and 
management plan, Elanco must by the Control Date: 
(a) appoint the person approved by the ACCC as the Approved Independent 
Manager on the Approved Terms of Appointment; and 
(b) forward to the ACCC a copy of the executed Approved Terms of 
Appointment. 
Failure to appoint 
8.7. 
If: 
(a) the Approved Independent Manager has not been appointed by the Control 
Date; 
(b) the Approved Independent Manager has not been appointed within 15 
Business Days after the Approved Independent Manager resigns or 
otherwise ceases to act as the Approved Independent Manager pursuant to 
clause 8.12, 8.13 or 8.14; or 
(c) 
the ACCC has not received a Proposed Independent Manager Notice 
pursuant to clause 8.3; 
then clause 8.8 applies. 
8.8. 
If clause 8.7 applies, the ACCC at its discretion may: 
(a) identify and approve a person as the Approved Independent Manager, 
including approving the draft terms of appointment of the Approved 
Independent Manager and the draft separation and management plan; 
and/or 
(b) direct Elanco to appoint a person who the ACCC has deemed is an 
Approved Independent Manager.   


11 
 
Obligations and powers of the Approved Independent Manager 
8.9. 
Elanco must procure that any proposed terms of appointment for the Approved 
Independent Manager include obligations on the Approved Independent 
Manager to:  
(a) maintain his or her independence from Elanco, apart from appointment to 
the role of Approved Independent Manager, including not forming any 
relationship of the types described in paragraph 2(c) of Schedule 3 to this 
Undertaking with Elanco for the period of his or her appointment;  
(b) act in the best interests of the Divestiture Businesses at all times including 
ensuring that the Divestiture Businesses are managed and operated in the 
ordinary course of business as fully operational, competitive going concerns 
and in such a way that preserves the economic viability, marketability, 
competitiveness and goodwill of the Divestiture Businesses at the Control 
Date; 
(c) 
not use any confidential information gained through the management of the 
Divestiture Businesses other than for performing his or her functions as 
Approved Independent Manager; 
(d) make only those Material Changes to the Divestiture Businesses which the 
ACCC does not object to; 
(e) operate and manage the Divestiture Businesses to the maximum extent 
practicable, in a manner which is financially and operationally separate from 
Elanco; 
(f) 
co-operate with the requests of any Approved Divestiture Agent or Approved 
Independent Auditor appointed pursuant to this Undertaking. 
(g) provide the following reports directly to the ACCC: 
(i) 
a monthly written report regarding the implementation of and any 
suggested changes to the Approved Separation and Management 
Plan; and 
(ii) 
an immediate report of any issues that arise in relation to the 
implementation of the Approved Separation and Management Plan or 
Elanco’s compliance with this Undertaking; and 
(h) follow any direction given to him or her by the ACCC in relation to the 
performance of his or her functions as Approved Independent Manager 
pursuant to this Undertaking. 
8.10. 
Elanco must procure that any proposed terms of appointment for the Approved 
Independent Manager provide the Approved Independent Manager with the sole 
authority to:  
(a) manage and operate the Divestiture Businesses according to the Approved 
Separation and Management Plan until the completion of the divestiture of 
the Divestiture Businesses; 
(b) provide any information requested by Elanco pursuant to the protocol in the 
Approved Separation and Management Plan;  


12 
 
(c) 
decide whether or not to provide access and the manner of such access to 
competitively sensitive information relating to the Divestiture Businesses 
requested by Elanco which is not covered by the protocol in the Approved 
Separation and Management Plan; 
(d) renew or replace upon expiry Material Contracts and enter into new 
contracts for the provision of goods or services to the Divestiture Businesses 
on commercial terms favourable to the Divestiture Businesses; 
(e) engage, redeploy or make redundant personnel employed in the Divestiture 
Businesses as the Approved Independent Manager determines necessary; 
and 
(f) 
engage any external expertise, assistance or advice required by the 
Approved Independent Manager to perform his or her functions as the 
Approved Independent Manager.  
Elanco’s obligations in relation to the Approved Independent Manager 
8.11. 
Without limiting its obligations in this Undertaking, Elanco must: 
(a) comply with and enforce the Approved Terms of Appointment of the 
Approved Independent Manager;  
(b) maintain and fund the Approved Independent Manager to carry out his or 
her functions, including:  
(i) 
indemnifying the Approved Independent Manager for any expenses, 
loss, claim or damage arising directly or indirectly from the 
performance by the Approved Independent Manager of his or her 
functions as the Approved Independent Manager except where such 
expenses, loss, claim or damage arises out of the gross negligence, 
fraud, misconduct or breach of duty by the Approved Independent 
Manager;  
(ii) 
ensuring that the Approved Independent Manager is fully able to 
acquire and pay for sufficient and timely delivery of all goods and 
services (including from third parties) which the Approved 
Independent Manager considers are required by the Divestiture 
Businesses; and 
(iii) 
providing and paying for any external expertise, assistance or advice 
required by the Approved Independent Manager to perform his or 
her functions as the Approved Independent Manager; and 
(c) 
not interfere with the authority of, or otherwise hinder, the Approved 
Independent Manager’s ability to carry out his or her obligations as the 
Approved Independent Manager, including: 
(i) 
accepting (and directing its directors, contractors, managers, 
officers, employees and agents to accept) direction from the 
Approved Independent Manager as to the control, management, 
financing and operations of the Divestiture Businesses, and for the 
Divestiture Businesses to meet all legal, corporate, financial, 
accounting, taxation, audit and regulatory obligations;  


13 
 
(ii) 
providing access to the facilities, sites or operations of the 
Divestiture Businesses required by the Approved Independent 
Manager; 
(iii) 
providing to the Approved Independent Manager any information or 
documents that he or she considers necessary for managing and 
operating the Divestiture Businesses or for reporting to or otherwise 
advising the ACCC; and 
(iv) 
not requesting information or reports regarding the Divestiture 
Businesses from the personnel of the Divestiture Businesses except 
through the Approved Independent Manager; and 
(v) 
not appointing the Approved Independent Manager, or have any 
Agreements with the Approved Independent Manager, to utilise the 
Approved Independent Manager’s services for anything other than 
compliance with this Undertaking until at least 12 months after the 
Approved Independent Manager ceases to act in the role of the 
Approved Independent Manager. 
Resignation, revocation or termination of the Approved Independent Manager 
8.12. 
 Elanco must immediately notify the ACCC in the event that the Approved 
Independent Manager resigns or otherwise stops acting as the       
Approved Independent Manager before the completion of the divestiture of the 
Divestiture Businesses.  
8.13. 
The ACCC may revoke an Approved Independent Manager’s status as the 
Approved Independent Manager if the ACCC becomes aware that any 
information provided to it was incorrect, inaccurate or misleading.  
8.14. 
The ACCC may approve any proposal by, or alternatively may direct, Elanco to 
terminate the appointment of the Approved Independent Manager if in the 
ACCC's view the Approved Independent Manager acts inconsistently with the 
provisions of this Undertaking or the Approved Terms of Appointment.  
9. 
Independent Audit 
Obligation to appoint an Approved Independent Auditor 
9.1. 
Elanco must appoint and maintain an Approved Independent Auditor to audit and 
report upon Elanco’s compliance with this Undertaking. 
Process for approving a Proposed Independent Auditor 
9.2. 
At least 15 Business Days before the Control Date, Elanco must provide the 
ACCC with a notice for a Proposed Independent Auditor in the form prescribed in 
Schedule 3 to this Undertaking (Proposed Independent Auditor Notice), 
including draft terms of appointment and a draft audit plan.  
9.3. 
If clauses 9.16, 9.17 or 9.18 apply, Elanco must provide the ACCC with a 
Proposed Independent Auditor Notice within five Business Days after the 
relevant event occurs, otherwise clause 9.8 applies.  
9.4. 
The ACCC shall have the discretion to approve or reject in writing the Proposed 
Independent Auditor identified in the Proposed Independent Auditor Notice.  


14 
 
9.5. 
Without limiting the ACCC’s discretion, in deciding whether to approve a 
Proposed Independent Auditor, the factors to which the ACCC may have regard 
include whether the:  
(a) 
person named in the Proposed Independent Auditor Notice or identified 
by the ACCC has the qualifications and experience necessary to carry 
out the functions of the Approved Independent Auditor;  
(b) 
person named in the Proposed Independent Auditor Notice or identified 
by the ACCC is sufficiently independent of Elanco;  
(c) 
draft terms of appointment and the draft audit plan are consistent with 
this Undertaking; and 
(d) 
draft terms of appointment and the draft audit plan are otherwise 
acceptable to the ACCC. 
Appointment of the Approved Independent Auditor 
9.6. 
After receiving a written notice from the ACCC of its approval of a Proposed 
Independent Auditor, the draft terms of appointment and draft audit plan, Elanco 
must by the Control Date: 
(a) appoint the person approved by the ACCC as the Approved Independent 
Auditor on the Approved Terms of Appointment; and 
(b) forward to the ACCC a copy of the executed Approved Terms of 
Appointment. 
Failure to appoint 
9.7. 
If: 
(a) the Approved Independent Auditor has not been appointed by the Control 
Date;  
(b) the Approved Independent Auditor has not been appointed within 15 
Business Days after the Approved Independent Auditor resigns or otherwise 
ceases to act as the Approved Independent Auditor pursuant to clause 9.16, 
9.17, or 9.18; or  
(c) 
the ACCC has not received a Proposed Independent Auditor Notice 
pursuant to clause 9.3;  
then clause 9.8 applies. 
9.8. 
If clause 9.7 applies, the ACCC at its absolute discretion may: 
(a) identify and approve a person as the Approved Independent Auditor, 
including approving the draft terms of appointment and draft audit plan; 
and/or 
(b) direct Elanco to appoint a person who the ACCC has deemed is an 
Approved Independent Auditor. 
Obligations and powers of the Approved Independent Auditor 
9.9. 
Elanco must procure that any proposed terms of appointment for the Approved 
Independent Auditor include obligations on the Approved Independent Auditor to:  


15 
 
(a) maintain his or her independence from Elanco, apart from appointment to 
the role of Approved Independent Auditor, including not forming any 
relationship of the types described in paragraph 2(c) of Schedule 3 to this 
Undertaking with Elanco for the period of his or her appointment;  
(b) conduct compliance auditing according to the Approved Audit Plan; 
(c) 
where requested by the ACCC, assess the suitability of any Proposed 
Purchaser or potential purchaser of the Divestiture Businesses against the 
factors (as relevant) in clause 6.5; 
(d) provide the following reports directly to the ACCC: 
(i) 
a scheduled written Audit Report as described in clause 9.11;  
(ii) 
an immediate report of any issues that arise in relation to the 
performance of his or her functions as Approved Independent 
Auditor or in relation to compliance with this Undertaking by any 
person named in this Undertaking; and 
(iii) 
where requested by the ACCC, a report on the suitability of any 
Proposed Purchaser or potential purchaser of the Divestiture 
Businesses following an assessment under clause 9.9(c); and  
(e) follow any direction given to him or her by the ACCC in relation to the 
performance of his or her functions as Approved Independent Auditor under 
this Undertaking. 
9.10. 
Elanco must procure that any proposed terms of appointment for the Approved 
Independent Auditor provide the Approved Independent Auditor with the authority 
to:  
(a) access the facilities, sites or operations of the Divestiture Businesses and 
Elanco’s other businesses as required by the Approved Independent 
Auditor;  
(b) access any information or documents that the Approved Independent 
Auditor considers necessary for carrying out his or her functions as the 
Approved Independent Auditor or for reporting to or otherwise advising the 
ACCC; and 
(c) 
engage any external expertise, assistance or advice required by the 
Approved Independent Auditor to perform his or her functions as the 
Approved Independent Auditor.  
Compliance Audit  
9.11. 
The Approved Independent Auditor must conduct an audit and prepare a detailed 
report (Audit Report) that includes: 
(a) the Approved Independent Auditor’s procedures in conducting the audit, or 
any change to audit procedures and processes since the previous Audit 
Report; 
(b) a full audit of Elanco’s compliance with this Undertaking;  


16 
 
(c) 
identification of any areas of uncertainty or ambiguity in the Approved 
Independent Auditor’s interpretation of any obligations contained in this 
Undertaking; 
(d) all of the reasons for the conclusions reached in the Audit Report; 
(e) any qualifications made by the Approved Independent Auditor in forming his 
or her views;  
(f) 
any recommendations by the Approved Independent Auditor to improve: 
(i) 
the Approved Audit Plan; 
(ii) 
the integrity of the auditing process;  
(iii) 
Elanco’s processes or reporting systems in relation to compliance 
with this Undertaking; and 
(iv) 
Elanco’s compliance with this Undertaking; and 
(g) the implementation and outcome of any prior recommendations by the 
Approved Independent Auditor.  
9.12. 
The Approved Independent Auditor is to provide an Audit Report to the ACCC 
and Elanco at the following times:  
(a) within 10 Business Days after the Control Date, at which time the Audit 
Report is to include the results of the initial audit and any recommended 
changes to the Approved Audit Plan, including the Approved Independent 
Auditor’s proposed procedures and processes for conducting the audit 
(Establishment Audit);  
(b) every month from the date of the Establishment Audit until one month after 
the divestiture of the Divestiture Businesses is completed;  
(c) 
every three months after the date of provision of the last Audit Report 
pursuant to clause 9.12(b), until the ACCC confirms in writing to Elanco that 
it is satisfied that Elanco has fulfilled its obligations pursuant to this 
Undertaking; and 
(d) a final report due three months after the last report provided pursuant to 
clause 9.12(c). 
9.13. 
Elanco must implement any recommendations made by the Approved 
Independent Auditor in Audit Reports, and notify the ACCC of the implementation 
of the recommendations, within 10 Business Days after receiving the Audit 
Report or such other period as agreed in writing with the ACCC.  
9.14. 
Elanco must comply with any direction of the ACCC in relation to matters arising 
from the Audit Report within 10 Business Days after being so directed (or such 
other period as agreed in writing with the ACCC).  
Elanco’s obligations in relation to the Approved Independent Auditor 
9.15. 
Without limiting its obligations in this Undertaking, Elanco must: 
(a) comply with and enforce the Approved Terms of Appointment for the 
Approved Independent Auditor;  


17 
 
(b) maintain and fund the Approved Independent Auditor to carry out his or her 
functions including:  
(i) 
indemnifying the Approved Independent Auditor for any expenses, 
loss, claim or damage arising directly or indirectly from the 
performance by the Approved Independent Auditor of his or her 
functions as the Approved Independent Auditor except where such 
expenses, loss, claim or damage arises out of the gross negligence, 
fraud, misconduct or breach of duty by the Approved Independent 
Auditor;  
(ii) 
providing and paying for any external expertise, assistance or advice 
required by the Approved Independent Auditor to perform his or her 
functions as the Approved Independent Auditor; and 
(c) 
not interfere with, or otherwise hinder, the Approved Independent Auditor’s 
ability to carry out his or her functions as the Approved Independent Auditor, 
including: 
(i) 
directing Elanco personnel, including directors, contractors, 
managers, officers, employees and agents, to act in accordance with 
this clause 9;  
(ii) 
providing access to the facilities, sites or operations of the 
Divestiture Businesses and Elanco’s other businesses as required 
by the Approved Independent Auditor; 
(iii) 
providing to the Approved Independent Auditor any information or 
documents he or she considers necessary for carrying out his or her 
functions as the Approved Independent Auditor or for reporting to or 
otherwise advising the ACCC; 
(iv) 
not requesting any information relating to the compliance audit from 
the Approved Independent Auditor without such a request having 
been approved by the ACCC; and 
(v) 
not appointing the Approved Independent Auditor, or have any 
Agreements with the Approved Independent Auditor, to utilise the 
Approved Independent Auditor’s services for anything other than 
compliance with this Undertaking until at least 12 months after the 
Approved Independent Auditor ceases to act in the role of the 
Approved Independent Auditor. 
Resignation, revocation or termination of the Approved Independent Auditor  
9.16. 
Elanco must immediately notify the ACCC in the event that the Approved 
Independent Auditor resigns or otherwise stops acting as the Approved 
Independent Auditor.  
9.17. 
The ACCC may revoke an Approved Independent Auditor’s status as the 
Approved Independent Auditor if the ACCC becomes aware that any information 
provided to it was incorrect, inaccurate or misleading.  
9.18. 
The ACCC may approve any proposal by, or alternatively may direct, Elanco to 
terminate the appointment of the Approved Independent Auditor if in the ACCC's 
view the Approved Independent Auditor acts inconsistently with the provisions of 
this Undertaking and/or the Approved Terms of Appointment or the Approved 
Independent Auditor fails to perform their role to an adequate standard.  


18 
 
10. 
Failure to divest the Divestiture Businesses within the Initial 
Sale Period 
Divestiture of the Unsold Business 
10.1. 
In the event that the divestiture of a Divestiture Business to an Approved 
Purchaser is not completed by the end of the Initial Sale Period, the Divestiture 
Business becomes an unsold business (Unsold Business) and the provisions of 
this clause 10 apply. 
Obligation to appoint an Approved Divestiture Agent 
10.2. 
From the end of the Initial Sale Period, Elanco must appoint and maintain an 
Approved Divestiture Agent to effect the divestiture of the Unsold Business. 
Process for approving a Proposed Divestiture Agent 
10.3. 
At least 15 Business Days prior to the end of the Initial Sale Period, if the 
divestiture of a Divestiture Business has not been completed, Elanco must 
provide the ACCC with a notice for a Proposed Divestiture Agent in the form of 
Schedule 3 to this Undertaking (Proposed Divestiture Agent Notice) including 
draft terms of appointment, a draft business sale agreement, and draft marketing 
and sale plan. 
10.4. 
If clauses 10.14, 10.15 or 10.16 apply, Elanco must provide the ACCC with a 
Proposed Divestiture Agent Notice within five Business Days after the relevant 
event occurs, otherwise clause 10.9 applies. 
10.5. 
The ACCC shall have the discretion to approve or reject in writing the Proposed 
Divestiture Agent.  
10.6. 
Without limiting the ACCC’s discretion, in deciding whether to approve a 
Proposed Divestiture Agent, the factors to which the ACCC may have regard 
include whether the:  
(a) 
person named in Proposed Divestiture Agent Notice or identified by the 
ACCC has the qualifications and experience necessary to carry out the 
functions of the Approved Divestiture Agent;  
(b) 
person named in the Proposed Divestiture Agent Notice or identified by 
the ACCC is sufficiently independent of Elanco; 
(c) 
draft terms of appointment, draft business sale agreement and draft 
marketing and sale plan are consistent with this Undertaking; and 
(d) 
draft terms of appointment, draft business sale agreement and draft 
marketing and sale plan are otherwise acceptable to the ACCC. 
Appointment of the Approved Divestiture Agent 
10.7. 
After receiving written notice from the ACCC of its approval of the Proposed 
Divestiture Agent, the draft terms of appointment, draft business sale agreement 
and draft marketing and sale plan, Elanco must within two Business Days: 
(a) appoint the person approved by the ACCC as the Approved Divestiture 
Agent on the Approved Terms of Appointment; and 


19 
 
(b) forward to the ACCC a copy of the executed Approved Terms of 
Appointment. 
Failure to appoint 
10.8. 
If: 
(a) the Approved Divestiture Agent has not been appointed within 10 Business 
Days after a Divestiture Business becomes an Unsold Business;  
(b) the Approved Divestiture Agent has not been appointed within 15 Business 
Days after the Approved Divestiture Agent resigns or otherwise ceases to 
act pursuant to clauses 10.14, 10.15 or 10.16; or  
(c) 
the ACCC has not received a Proposed Divestiture Agent Notice pursuant to 
clause 10.4; 
then clause 10.9 applies. 
10.9. 
If clause 10.8 applies, the ACCC may, at its absolute discretion: 
(a) identify and approve a person as the Approved Divestiture Agent, including 
approving the draft terms of appointment of the Approved Divestiture Agent, 
draft business sale agreement and draft marketing and sale plan; and/or 
(b) direct Elanco to appoint a person who the ACCC has deemed is an 
Approved Divestiture Agent. 
Obligations and powers of the Approved Divestiture Agent 
10.10. Elanco must procure that any proposed terms of appointment for the Approved 
Divestiture Agent include obligations on the Approved Divestiture Agent to:  
(a) divest the Unsold Business only to an Approved Purchaser, at no minimum 
price;   
(b) maintain his or her independence from Elanco, apart from appointment to 
the role of Approved Divestiture Agent, including not form any relationship of 
the types described in paragraph 2(c) of Schedule 3 to this Undertaking with 
Elanco for the period of his or her appointment;  
(c) 
not use any confidential information gained through the divestiture of the 
Unsold Business other than for performing his or her functions as Approved 
Divestiture Agent; 
(d) follow the Approved Marketing and Sale Plan;  
(e) use his or her best endeavours to enter into a binding agreement for the 
divestiture of the Unsold Business as quickly as possible using the 
Approved Business Sale Agreement;  
(f) 
co-operate with the requests of any Approved Independent Manager or 
Approved Independent Auditor appointed pursuant to this Undertaking; 
(g) every 30 Business Days following appointment of the Approved Divestiture 
Agent, provide written reports directly to the ACCC which include: 


20 
 
(i) 
information regarding the implementation of the Approved Business 
Sale Agreement and the Approved Marketing and Sale Plan 
including any previous changes approved by the ACCC; 
(ii) 
information regarding any suggested changes to any Approved 
Marketing and Sale Plan including any previous changes approved 
by the ACCC; 
(iii) 
an account and explanation of all disbursements, fees and charges 
incurred by the Approved Divestiture Agent in undertaking his or her 
duties by month and to the date of the report; 
(iv) 
a schedule of agreed fees of the Approved Divestiture Agent 
(including the fees of any adviser appointed under clause 10.11(d)); 
(v) 
the efforts made to sell the Unsold Business; 
(vi) 
the identity of any advisers engaged; 
(vii) 
the identity of any persons expressing interest in the Unsold 
Business; and 
(viii) any other information required by the ACCC. 
(h) within 30 Business Days after the completion of the divestiture of the Unsold 
Business, provide a written report directly to the ACCC which includes a 
final accounting of: 
(i) 
any moneys derived from the divestiture of the Unsold Business; 
(ii) 
all disbursements, fees and charges incurred by the Approved 
Divestiture Agent in fulfilling his or her duties; and 
(iii) 
all agreed fees of the Approved Divestiture Agent (including the fees 
of any adviser appointed under clause 10.11(d); 
(i) 
immediately inform the ACCC of: 
(i) 
any issues that arise in relation to the implementation of the 
Approved Sale and Purchase Agreement and any Approved 
Marketing and Sale Plan; 
(ii) 
non-compliance with this Undertaking by any person named in this 
Undertaking;  
(iii) 
any offers for the Unsold Business; 
(j) 
accept any offer for the Unsold Business upon instruction from Elanco given 
in accordance with clause 10.13(d); and 
(k) 
follow any direction given to him or her by the ACCC in relation to the 
performance of his or her functions as Approved Divestiture Agent pursuant 
to this Undertaking. 
10.11. Elanco must procure that any proposed terms of appointment for the Approved 
Divestiture Agent contain an irrevocable grant of power of attorney conferring all 
necessary power and authority on the Approved Divestiture Agent to: 


21 
 
(a) negotiate with purchasers to divest the Unsold Business on terms 
considered by the Approved Divestiture Agent in his or her sole discretion to 
be consistent with this Undertaking and the Approved Marketing and Sale 
Plan; 
(b) execute any agreements with the Approved Purchaser required pursuant to 
clause 6.4; 
(c) 
upon instruction pursuant to clause 10.13(d), complete the divestiture of the 
Unsold Business to the Approved Purchaser in accordance with the 
Approved Business Sale Agreement; and 
(d) engage any external expertise, assistance or advice required by the 
Approved Divestiture Agent to perform his or her functions as the Approved 
Divestiture Agent. 
10.12. Any irrevocable power of attorney granted pursuant to clause 10.11 will end upon 
resignation or termination of the Approved Divestiture Agent in accordance with 
clauses 10.14, 10.15 and 10.16, or in the event that the Unsold Business is 
divested in accordance with this Undertaking. 
Elanco’s obligations in relation to the Approved Divestiture Agent 
10.13. Without limiting its obligations in this Undertaking, Elanco must from the end of 
the Initial Sale Period: 
(a) comply with and enforce the Approved Terms of Appointment for the 
Approved Divestiture Agent;  
(b) maintain and fund the Approved Divestiture Agent to carry out his or her 
functions; including:  
(i) 
indemnifying the Approved Divestiture Agent for any expenses, loss, 
claim or damage arising directly or indirectly from the performance 
by the Approved Divestiture Agent of his or her functions as the 
Approved Divestiture Agent except where such expenses, loss, 
claim or damage arises out of the gross negligence, fraud, 
misconduct or breach of duty by the Approved Divestiture Agent;  
(ii) 
providing and paying for any external expertise, assistance or advice 
required by the Approved Divestiture Agent to perform his or her 
functions as the Approved Divestiture Agent;  
(iii) 
paying such fees as are agreed between the Approved Divestiture 
Agent and Elanco (but not fees contingent on the price to be 
obtained for the Unsold Business); and 
(iv) 
if an agreement as to fees cannot be reached between the Approved 
Divestiture Agent and Elanco within 15 Business Days after the end 
of the Initial Sale Period, Elanco agrees to pay such fees as are 
directed by the ACCC; 
(c) 
not interfere with, or otherwise hinder, the Approved Divestiture Agent’s 
ability to carry out his or her functions as the Approved Divestiture Agent, 
including: 


22 
 
(i) 
directing its personnel, including directors, contractors, managers, 
officers, employees and agents, to act in accordance with this 
clause 10;  
(ii) 
providing access to the facilities, sites or operations of the Unsold 
Business as required by the Approved Divestiture Agent; and 
(iii) 
providing to the Approved Divestiture Agent any information, 
documents or other assistance he or she considers necessary for 
carrying out his or her functions as the Approved Divestiture Agent 
or for reporting to or otherwise advising the ACCC; 
(d) within three Business Days after receiving notice from the ACCC pursuant to 
clause 6.4, Elanco must instruct the Approved Divestiture Agent to complete 
the divestiture of the Unsold Business to the Approved Purchaser in 
accordance with the documents approved by the ACCC pursuant to clause 
6.4; and 
(e) other than in accordance with clause 10.13(d) of this Undertaking, not 
instruct the Approved Divestiture Agent to divest the Unsold Business.  
Resignation, revocation or termination of the Approved Divestiture Agent 
10.14. Elanco must immediately notify the ACCC in the event that an Approved 
Divestiture Agent resigns or otherwise stops acting as an Approved Divestiture 
Agent before the completion of the divestiture of the Unsold Business.  
10.15. The ACCC may revoke an Approved Divestiture Agent’s status as the Approved 
Divestiture Agent if the ACCC becomes aware that any information provided to it 
was incorrect, inaccurate or misleading.  
10.16. The ACCC may approve any proposal by, or alternatively may direct, Elanco to 
terminate an Approved Divestiture Agent if in the ACCC's view the Approved 
Divestiture Agent acts inconsistently with the provisions of this Undertaking or the 
Approved Terms of Appointment. 
 
11. 
Notification of key dates and ACCC requests for information
 
 
11.1. 
Elanco must notify the ACCC and each Undertaking Appointment in writing of:   
(a) the anticipated date of the Control Date, at least five Business Days before 
that date;  
(b) the anticipated date of the completion of the divestiture of a Divestiture 
Business or Unsold Business (as applicable), at least five Business Days 
before that date; 
(c) 
the occurrence of the Control Date, within one Business Day of that date; 
and 
(d) the occurrence of the completion of the divestiture of a Divestiture Business 
or Unsold Business (as applicable), within one Business Day of that date. 
11.2. 
The ACCC may direct Elanco in respect of its compliance with this Undertaking 
to, and Elanco must: 


23 
 
(a) furnish information to the ACCC in the time and in the form requested by the 
ACCC; 
(b) produce documents and materials to the ACCC within Elanco's custody, 
power or control in the time and in the form requested by the ACCC; and/or 
(c) 
attend the ACCC at a time and place appointed by the ACCC to answer any 
questions the ACCC (its Commissioners, its staff or its agents) may have. 
11.3. 
Any direction made by the ACCC under clause 11.2 will be notified to Elanco, in 
accordance with clause 18.2. 
11.4. 
In respect of Elanco's compliance with this Undertaking or an Undertaking 
Appointment’s compliance with its Approved Terms of Appointment, the ACCC 
may request any Undertaking Appointment to: 
(a) furnish information to the ACCC in the time and in the form requested by the 
ACCC; 
(b) produce documents and materials to the ACCC within the Undertaking 
Appointment's custody, power or control in the time and in the form 
requested by the ACCC; and/or  
(c) 
attend the ACCC at a time and place appointed by the ACCC to answer any 
questions the ACCC (its Commissioners, its staff or its agents) may have. 
11.5. 
Elanco will use its best endeavours to ensure that an Undertaking Appointment 
complies with any request from the ACCC in accordance with clause 11.4. 
11.6. 
Information furnished, documents and material produced or information given in 
response to any request or direction from the ACCC under this clause 11 may be 
used by the ACCC for any purpose consistent with the exercise of its statutory 
duties. 
11.7. 
The ACCC may in its discretion:  
(a) advise any Undertaking Appointment of any request made by it under this 
clause 11; and/or 
(b) provide copies to any Undertaking Appointment of any information 
furnished, documents and material produced or information given to it under 
this clause 11.  
11.8. 
Nothing in this clause 11 requires the provision of information or documents in 
respect of which Elanco has a claim of legal professional or other privilege. 
 
12. 
Disclosure of this Undertaking 
12.1. 
Elanco and the ACCC agree that Schedule 5 will remain confidential until after 
the completion of the divestiture of the Divestiture Businesses or Unsold 
Businesses.  
12.2. 
Elanco acknowledges that the ACCC may provide each Undertaking Appointment 
with a copy of this Undertaking which includes unredacted versions of Schedule 
5. 


24 
 
12.3. 
Elanco acknowledges that the ACCC may, subject to clause 12.1:  
(a) make this Undertaking publicly available;  
(b) publish this Undertaking on its Public Section 87B Undertakings Register 
and Public Mergers Register; and 
(c) 
from time to time publicly refer to this Undertaking.  
12.4. 
Nothing in clause 12.1 or the confidential parts of this Undertaking referred to in 
clause 12.1 prevents the ACCC from disclosing such information as is: 
(a) required by law; 
(b) permitted by section 155AAA of the Act; 
(c) 
necessary for the purpose of enforcement action under section 87B of the 
Act; or 
(d) necessary for the purpose of making such market inquiries as the ACCC 
thinks fit to assess the impact on competition arising in connection with this 
Undertaking. 
12.5. 
Nothing in clause 12.1 or the confidential parts of this Undertaking referred to in 
clause 12.1 prevents the ACCC from using the information contained in this 
Undertaking for any purpose consistent with its statutory functions and powers. 
 
13. 
Obligation to procure 
13.1. 
Where the performance of an obligation under this Undertaking requires a 
Related Body Corporate of Elanco to take or refrain from taking some action, 
Elanco will procure that Related Body Corporate to take or refrain from taking that 
action.   
 
14. 
No Derogation 
14.1. 
This Undertaking does not prevent the ACCC from taking enforcement action at 
any time whether during or after the period of this Undertaking in respect of any 
breach by Elanco of any term of this Undertaking. 
14.2. 
Nothing in this Undertaking is intended to restrict the right of the ACCC to take 
action under the Act for penalties or other remedies in the event that Elanco does 
not fully implement and/or perform its obligations under this Undertaking or in any 
other event where the ACCC decides to take action under the Act for penalties or 
other remedies. 
 
15. 
Change of Control  
15.1. 
In the event that a Change of Control is reasonably expected to occur, Elanco 
must:  
(a) notify the ACCC of this expectation as soon as practicable; and 


25 
 
(b) only implement a Change of Control to another person or entity if that 
person or entity has given a section 87B undertaking to the ACCC that 
requires it to comply with the same obligations as are imposed on Elanco 
pursuant to this Undertaking, or on terms that are otherwise acceptable to 
the ACCC, unless the ACCC has notified Elanco in writing that a section 
87B undertaking under this clause is not required. 
16. 
Costs 
16.1. 
Elanco must pay all of its own costs incurred in relation to this Undertaking. 
 
17. 
Jurisdiction 
17.1. 
Elanco irrevocably submits to the jurisdiction of the Federal Court of Australia in 
relation to this Undertaking. 
17.2. 
Unless and until notified in writing by Elanco to the ACCC of the appointment of 
another person as agent within Australia, Elanco appoints Elanco Australasia Pty 
Ltd, as its agent for the purposes of service of process in relation to this 
Undertaking. 
18. 
Notices 
Giving Notices 
18.1. 
Any notice or communication to the ACCC pursuant to this Undertaking must be 
sent to: 
Email address:  
mergers@accc.gov.au  
 
Attention: Executive General Manager 
 
Merger and Authorisation Review Division 
With a copy sent to: 
mergersru@accc.gov.au 
 
Attention: Director, Remedies Unit 
 
Coordination and Strategy Branch 
 
Merger and Authorisation Review Division 
18.2. 
Any notice or communication to Elanco pursuant to this Undertaking must be sent 
to: 
Name: Elanco Australasia Pty Ltd 
 
 
Address: Level 3, 7 Eden Park Drive, Macquarie Park, NSW, 2113 
 
Email Address:  
van_der_walt_gert_hendrik@elanco.com; and 
ng_pei_ling@elanco.com  
Fax number:   N/A 
Attention:   
Hendrik Van der Walt, Country Director, ANZ; and  


26 
 
Pei Ling Ng, Assistant General Counsel, APAC, Internal Business Unit, Legal    
With a copy sent to: 
Name: Gilbert + Tobin   
 
Address: Level 35, Tower Two, International Towers, Sydney, 200 Barangaroo 
Avenue, Barangaroo, NSW 2000  
 
 
Email Address: eavery@gtlaw.com.au  
Fax number: +61 2 9263 4111 
Attention:  Elizabeth Avery 
18.3. 
If sent by post, notices are taken to be received three Business Days after 
posting (or seven Business Days after posting if sent to or from a place outside 
Australia). 
18.4. 
If sent by email, notices are taken to be received at the time shown in the email 
as the time the email was sent.  
 
Change of contact details 
18.5. 
Elanco must notify the ACCC of a change to its contact details within three 
Business Days.   
18.6. 
Any notice or communication will be sent to the most recently advised contact 
details and subject to clauses 18.3 and 18.4, will be taken to be received.  
 
19. 
Defined terms and interpretation  
Definitions in the Dictionary 
19.1. 
 A term or expression starting with a capital letter: 
(a) which is defined in the Dictionary in Part 1 of Schedule 1 (Dictionary), has 
the meaning given to it in the Dictionary; or 
(b) which is defined in the Corporations Act, but is not defined in the Dictionary, 
has the meaning given to it in the Corporations Act. 
Interpretation 
19.2. 
Part 2 of Schedule 1 sets out rules of interpretation for this Undertaking. 





			

.-,/	
		
	/#,+-,"(*#++#!',(*/


#!',-*( -,"(*#++#!',(*/
#"%*/',#$+
&( -,"(*#++#!',(*/)*#',

,

.-,/	
			
	)-*+-',,(+,#('
( ,"/


#!',-*( #*,(*
#!',-*( #*,(*
'*#$'*%,
#"%(#
&( #*,(*)*#',
&( #*,(*)*#',

,
,






28 
 
Accepted by the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission pursuant 
to section 87B of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth) on: 
 
 
Date 
 
and signed on behalf of the Commission: 
 
 
 
Chair 
 
 
 
Date 
  
 
8 July 2020
8 July 2020


29 
 
Schedule 1 – Dictionary and interpretation  
1. 
Dictionary 
ACCC means the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission. 
Act means the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth). 
Agreements means any contract, arrangement or understanding, including any contract, 
arrangement or understanding to renew, amend, vary or extend any contract, 
arrangement or understanding.  
Approved Audit Plan means the plan approved by the ACCC in accordance with the 
terms of this Undertaking, by which the Approved Independent Auditor will audit and 
report upon compliance with this Undertaking. 
Approved Business Sale Agreement means the standard form contract for the 
divestiture of an Unsold Business which has been approved by the ACCC in accordance 
with the terms of this Undertaking.  
Approved Divestiture Agent means the person approved by the ACCC and appointed 
under clause 10 of this Undertaking. 
Approved Independent Auditor means the person approved by the ACCC and 
appointed under clause 9 of this Undertaking. 
Approved Independent Manager means the person approved by the ACCC and 
appointed under clause 8 of this Undertaking. 
Approved Marketing and Sale Plan means the plan approved by the ACCC in 
accordance with the terms of this Undertaking, by which the Approved Divestiture Agent 
will market and effect the divestiture of an Unsold Business. 
Approved Purchaser means the person approved by the ACCC under clause 6 of this 
Undertaking. 
Approved Sale and Purchase Agreement means, for each Divestiture Business, the 
contract approved by the ACCC in accordance with the terms of this Undertaking, by 
which Elanco will divest each Divestiture Business to one or more Approved Purchasers 
and the Approved Purchasers will acquire the Divestiture Business from Elanco. 
Approved Separation and Management Plan means the plan approved by the ACCC 
in accordance with the terms of this Undertaking, by which the Approved Independent 
Manager will: 
a) 
separate the Divestiture Businesses from any business to be retained by 
Elanco; and  
b) 
manage and operate the Divestiture Businesses independently of Elanco 
and any retained business. 
Approved Terms of Appointment means the terms of appointment for the Approved 
Independent Manager, Approved Independent Auditor or Approved Divestiture Agent, as 
applicable, as approved by the ACCC in accordance with the terms of this Undertaking. 


30 
 
Approved Transitional Supply Agreement means any agreement, for the supply of 
goods or services (other than Technical Assistance) by Elanco to an Approved 
Purchaser, approved by the ACCC in accordance with the terms of this Undertaking. 
Approved Transitional Technical Assistance Agreement means any agreement, for 
the supply of Technical Assistance by Elanco to an Approved Purchaser, approved by 
the ACCC in accordance with the terms of this Undertaking.  
APVMA means Australian Pesticides and Veterinary Medicines Authority. 
Associated Entity has the meaning given by section 50AAA of the Corporations Act. 
Audit Report has the meaning given to it in clause 9.11 of this Undertaking. 
Avenge Sheep Lice Business means the sheep lice and/or blowfly strike treatments 
sold under the Avenge and Avenge + Fly brands in Australia along with any wholesale 
supply agreements relating to those products and includes the assets listed in Table 1: 
Avenge Sheep Lice Business in Schedule 4. 
Bayer has the meaning given in clause 2.2 of this Undertaking. 
Business Day means a day other than a Saturday or Sunday on which banks are open 
for business generally in the Australian Capital Territory.  
Change of Control means: 
x 
the assignment or other transfer of the legal or beneficial ownership of some or 
all of the share capital of Elanco to any other person or entity that may impact 
compliance with this Undertaking in its entirety; or 
x 
the sale or transfer of any assets necessary, or which may be necessary, to 
enable Elanco to continue to comply with this Undertaking in its entirety. 
Commencement Date means the date described in clause 3.1 of this Undertaking. 
Companion Animal Business means the assets listed in Table 2: Companion Animal 
Business in Schedule 4. 
Control Date means the date on which the Proposed Acquisition is completed.  
Consents means any Government Consents or Third Party Consents. 
Corporations Act means the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth). 
Divestiture Business means each of the businesses described in Schedule 4 to this 
Undertaking. 
Elanco has the meaning given in clause 2.1 of this Undertaking. 
Entities Connected has the meaning given by section 64B of the Corporations Act. 
Establishment Audit has the meaning given to it in clause 9.12(a) of this Undertaking. 
Government Consents means any consents from any government agency required for 
the assignment, novation, sale, sub-licensing or transfer of any assets, licences, permits, 
approval or contracts required for the operation of the Divestiture Businesses. 
Holding Company has the meaning given by section 9 of the Corporations Act.  


31 
 
Initial Sale Period is defined in clause 1 of Confidential Schedule 5 to this Undertaking. 
Manufacturing Technology means all technology, trade secrets, know-how and 
proprietary information that is necessary to manufacture the products supplied by the 
relevant Divestiture Business, including processes, specifications, test methods, 
instructions, master formulas, validation reports, stability data, analytical methods, 
records of complaints and annual product reviews, owned by and in the possession or 
control of Elanco. 
Material Change means any change to the structure, attributes, extent or operations of 
the Divestiture Businesses or products or services sold by a Divestiture Business that 
may affect, or impact on, the competitiveness of the Divestiture Businesses. 
Material Contract means any Agreement that is necessary for the operation of the 
Divestiture Businesses.  
Proposed Acquisition is defined in clause 2 of this Undertaking. 
Proposed Divestiture Agent means a person named in a Proposed Divestiture Notice. 
Proposed Divestiture Agent Notice has the meaning given to it in clause 10.3 of this 
Undertaking. 
Proposed Independent Auditor means a person named in a Proposed Independent 
Auditor Notice. 
Proposed Independent Auditor Notice has the meaning given to it in clause 9.2 of this 
Undertaking. 
Proposed Independent Manager means a person named in a Proposed Independent 
Manager Notice. 
Proposed Independent Manager Notice has the meaning given to it in clause 8.2 of 
this Undertaking. 
Proposed Purchaser means a person named in a Proposed Purchaser Notice. 
Proposed Purchaser Notice has the meaning given to it in clause 6.2 of this 
Undertaking.  
Public Mergers Register means the ACCC’s public register of merger clearances, 
available at www.accc.gov.au.   
Public Section 87B Undertakings Register means the ACCC’s public register of 
section 87B undertakings, available at www.accc.gov.au.  
Related Bodies Corporate has the meaning given to it by section 50 of the Corporations 
Act 2001 (Cth). 
Related Entities has the meaning given to it by section 9 of the Corporations Act 2001 
(Cth). 
Related Parties has the meaning given to it by section 228 of the Corporations Act 2001 
(Cth). 
Retained Product(s) means any product(s) in Australia and worldwide other than those 
supplied by a Divestiture Business. 


32 
 
Scientific and Regulatory Materials means technological, scientific, chemical, 
biological, pharmacological, toxicological, regulatory and clinical trial material and 
information (including adverse drug experience information) relating to the Divestiture 
Businesses. 
Subsidiary has the meaning given by section 9 of the Corporations Act. 
Technical Assistance includes advising on technical knowledge documentation, 
supporting the Approved Purchaser on acquiring specific assets necessary for the 
ongoing conduct of the Divestiture Businesses, providing staff with suitable experience 
and skills to assist and/or advice on technical issues, assisting in training for the 
Approved Purchaser’s staff, and providing guidance on regulatory and legal aspects 
relating to the transfer of or application for licences.  
Third Party Consents means any Consent from any entity that is not a government 
agency required for the assignment, novation, sale, sub-licensing or transfer of any 
assets, licences, permits, approval or contracts required for the operation of the 
Divestiture Businesses. 
Transferred Personnel has the meaning given to it in clause 5.7 of this Undertaking. 
Undertaking is a reference to all provisions of this document, including its schedules and 
as varied from time to time under section 87B of the Act. 
Undertaking Appointment means the Approved Independent Manager, the Approved 
Independent Auditor or the Approved Divestiture Agent, as applicable. 
Unsold Business has the meaning given to it in clause 10.1 of this Undertaking. 
 
2. 
Interpretation 
2.1 
In the interpretation of this Undertaking, the following provisions apply unless the 
context otherwise requires: 
(a) a reference to this Undertaking includes all of the provisions of this document 
including its schedules; 
(b) headings are inserted for convenience only and do not affect the 
interpretation of this Undertaking;  
(c) if the day on which any act, matter or thing is to be done under this 
Undertaking is not a Business Day, the act, matter or thing must be done on 
the next Business Day;  
(d) a reference in this Undertaking to any law, legislation or legislative provision 
includes any statutory modification, amendment or re-enactment, and any 
subordinate legislation or regulations issued under that legislation or 
legislative provision;  
(e) a reference in this Undertaking to any company includes its Related Bodies 
Corporate; 
(f) a reference in this Undertaking to any agreement or document is to that 
agreement or document as amended, novated, supplemented or replaced; 
(g) a reference to a clause, part, schedule or attachment is a reference to a 
clause, part, schedule or attachment of or to this Undertaking; 


33 
 
(h) an expression importing a natural person includes any company, trust, 
partnership, joint venture, association, body corporate or governmental 
agency; 
(i) where a word or phrase is given a defined meaning, another part of speech 
or other grammatical form in respect of that word or phrase has a 
corresponding meaning; 
(j) a word which denotes the singular also denotes the plural, a word which 
denotes the plural also denotes the singular, and a reference to any gender 
also denotes the other genders; 
(k) a reference to the words 'such as', 'including', 'particularly' and similar 
expressions is to be construed without limitation; 
(l) a construction that would promote the purpose - or object - underlying the 
Undertaking (whether expressly stated or not) will be preferred to a 
construction that would not promote that purpose or object; 
(m) material not forming part of this Undertaking may be considered to: 
(i) confirm the meaning of a clause is the ordinary meaning conveyed by 
the text of the clause, taking into account its context in the Undertaking 
and the competition concerns intended to be addressed by the 
Undertaking and the clause in question; or 
(ii) determine the meaning of the clause when the ordinary meaning 
conveyed by the text of the clause, taking into account its context in the 
Undertaking and the purpose or object underlying the Undertaking, leads 
to a result that does not promote the purpose or object underlying the 
Undertaking; 
(n) in determining whether consideration should be given to any material in 
accordance with paragraph (m), or in considering any weight to be given to 
any such material, regard must be had, in addition to any other relevant 
matters, to the: 
(i) effect that reliance on the ordinary meaning conveyed by the text of the 
clause would, have (taking into account its context in the Undertaking 
and whether that meaning promotes the purpose or object of the 
Undertaking); and 
(ii) need to ensure that the result of the Undertaking is to completely 
address any ACCC competition concerns; 
(o) the ACCC may authorise the ACCC Mergers Review Committee, a member 
of the ACCC or a member of the ACCC staff, to exercise a decision making 
function under this Undertaking on its behalf and that authorisation may be 
subject to any conditions which the ACCC may impose; 
(p) in performing its obligations under this Undertaking, Elanco will do everything 
reasonably within its power to ensure that its performance of those 
obligations is done in a manner which is consistent with promoting the 
purpose and object of this Undertaking; 
(q) a reference to: 
(i) a thing (including, but not limited to, a chose in action or other right) 
includes a part of that thing; 


34 
 
(ii) a party includes its successors and permitted assigns; and 
(iii) a monetary amount is in Australian dollars. 
  


35 
 
Schedule 2 – Proposed Purchaser Notice Form 
Please note in relation to information given on or in relation to this form, giving false or 
misleading information is a serious offence.   
The completed form with requested documents attached may be provided to the ACCC 
using the following method: 
Email  
Subject line:  
Proposed Purchaser Notice – [insert name of undertaking] 
Address: 
mergers@accc.gov.au 
Attention: 
Executive General Manager - Merger and Authorisation Review Division 
 
With an email copy sent to: 
Address:  
mergersru@accc.gov.au 
Attention:  
Director, Remedies Unit, Merger Coordination and Strategy Branch, 
Merger and Authorisation Review Division 
1) In relation to the Proposed Purchaser, please provide the following information: 
(a) Name of the Proposed Purchaser: 
(b) Address: 
(c) Contact name: 
(d) Telephone number: 
(e) Other contact details: 
2) Please attach a submission containing the following information to this form: 
(a) a description of the business carried on by the Proposed Purchaser including 
the locations in which the Proposed Purchaser carries on its business. 
(b) details of the Proposed Purchaser’s experience in the relevant market/s. 
(c) the names of the [owner/s and the directors (delete any that do not apply)] of 
the Proposed Purchaser.  
(d) details of any of the following types of relationships between Elanco and the 
Proposed Purchaser or confirmation that no such relationship exists whether 
within Australia or outside of Australia: 
(i) Elanco and the Proposed Purchaser are Associated Entities;  
(ii) Elanco is an Entity Connected with the Proposed Purchaser; 
(iii) the Proposed Purchaser is an Entity Connected with Elanco; 
(iv) Elanco and the Proposed Purchaser are Related Entities; 
(v) Elanco and the Proposed Purchaser are Related Parties; 


36 
 
(vi) any Related Party, Related Entity or Entity Connected with Elanco is a 
Related Party, Related Entity or Entity Connected with the Proposed 
Purchaser; 
(vii) Elanco and the Proposed Purchaser have a contractual relationship or 
had one within the past three years, other than those attached to this 
form; 
(viii) the Proposed Purchaser is a supplier of Elanco or has been in the past 
three years; 
(ix) Elanco is a supplier of the Proposed Purchaser or has been in the past 
three years; and 
(x) any other relationship between Elanco and the Proposed Purchaser that 
allows one to affect the business decisions of the other. 
(e) a section addressing the following factors, including any information adverse 
to the Proposed Purchaser, in the power, possession or control of Elanco: 
(i) whether the draft sale and purchase agreement is consistent with this 
Undertaking;  
(ii) whether the Proposed Purchaser will complete the transaction as 
contemplated by the draft sale and purchase agreement;  
(iii) whether the Proposed Purchaser is of good financial standing;  
(iv) whether the Proposed Purchaser has an intention to maintain and 
operate the Divestiture Business as a going concern; 
(v) whether the Proposed Purchaser is able to conduct the Divestiture 
Business effectively;  
(vi) whether the divestiture of the Divestiture Business to the Proposed 
Purchaser will address any competition concerns of the ACCC, including 
any relationships (including but not limited to shareholding interests, 
other proprietary interests, contracts, arrangements or understandings) 
between the Proposed Purchaser and other entities in a relevant market, 
and the likely long-term viability and competitiveness of the Divestiture 
Business under the ownership of the Proposed Purchaser; and 
(vii) any other matters that may affect the Proposed Purchaser’s capacity or 
ability to acquire or operate the Divestiture Business, such as 
outstanding legal action or disputes. 
3) Please also attach to this form: 
(a) the finalised draft of the sale and purchase agreement for approval by the 
ACCC in accordance with this Undertaking.  
(b) the finalised draft of any transitional technical assistance agreement for 
approval by the ACCC in accordance with this Undertaking. 
(c) the finalised draft of any transitional supply agreement for approval by the 
ACCC in accordance with this Undertaking. 
(d) any documents required to support the information provided by Elanco 
pursuant to this form. 


37 
 
Schedule 3 – Undertaking Appointment  
 
This form sets out the information required by the ACCC in relation to proposed 
appointment of the following positions under the Undertaking: 
x 
Independent Manager; or 
x 
Independent Auditor; or 
x 
Divestiture Agent; 
(the Undertaking Appointments). 
This form is to be used for each of the above appointments. 
 
Please note in relation to information given pursuant to this form, giving false or 
misleading information is a serious offence.   
 
Method of Delivery to the ACCC 
The completed Undertaking Appointment form, along with the additional requested 
information is to be provided to the ACCC with the subject line (proposed [only include 
relevant Undertaking Appointment i.e. Independent Auditor/Divestiture 
Agent/Independent Manager] Form – [insert name of undertaking] to the below email 
addresses: 
1) mergers@accc.gov.au 
 
Attention: Executive General Manager 
 
Merger and Authorisation Review Division 
 
2) With a copy sent to: 
mergersru@accc.gov.au 
 
Attention: Director  
 
 Remedies Unit 
 
Coordination and Strategy Branch 
 
Merger and Authorisation Review Division 
Information Required 
The ACCC requires the following information in order to assess a proposed Independent 
Auditor, Divestiture Agent or Independent Manager (i.e. the relevant Undertaking 
Appointment). 
1) Proposed Undertaking Appointment Details: 
(a) the name of the Proposed Undertaking Appointment; and 
(b) the name of the proposed Undertaking Appointment’s employer and contact 
details including: 
x 
Address; 
x 
Contact name; 


38 
 
x 
Telephone number; 
x 
Other contact details. 
2) A submission containing the following information: 
(a) details of the [Undertaking Appointment]’s qualifications and experience 
relevant to his or her proposed role pursuant to the Undertaking 
(b) the names of the [owner/s and the directors (delete any that do not apply)] of 
[the Undertaking Appointment’s employer] 
(c) details of any of the following types of relationships between Elanco and [the 
Undertaking Appointment] or [the Undertaking Appointment’s employer] or 
confirmation that no such relationship exists whether within Australia or 
outside of Australia: 
(i) Elanco and [the Undertaking Appointment’s employer] are 
Associated Entities 
(ii) Elanco is an Entity Connected with [the Undertaking Appointment’s 
employer] 
(iii) [The Undertaking Appointment’s employer] is an Entity Connected 
with Elanco 
(iv) Elanco and [the Undertaking Appointment’s employer] are Related 
Entities 
(v) Elanco and [the Undertaking Appointment’s employer] are Related 
Parties 
(vi) any Related Party, Related Entity or Entity Connected with Elanco is 
a Related Party, Related Entity or Entity Connected with [the 
Undertaking Appointment] 
(vii) Elanco and [the Undertaking Appointment] or [the Undertaking 
Appointment’s employer] have a contractual relationship or had one 
within the past three years, other than those attached to this form 
(viii) [the Undertaking Appointment’s employer] is a supplier of Elanco or 
has been in the past three years 
(ix) Elanco is a supplier of the [the Undertaking Appointment’s employer] 
or has been in the past three years, and 
(x) any other relationship between Elanco and [the Undertaking 
Appointment] or [the Undertaking Appointment’s employer] that 
allows one to affect the business decisions of the other, and 
(d) details of any existing or past contractual relationships between the 
Undertaking Appointment or the Undertaking Appointment's employer and 
the ACCC within the past three years. 
3) A document outlining the terms of appointment for the proposed Undertaking 
Appointment. This should identify the basis on which fees will be paid, including 
disclosure of any proposed performance-based fees.   


39 
 
Specific Information required for Undertaking Appointments 
The ACCC requires the below information in relation to the relevant Undertaking 
Appointment.  
Proposed Independent Auditor 
1) A finalised draft audit plan for the Divestiture Business, drafted by the Proposed 
Independent Auditor and outlining (to the extent possible) the Proposed Independent 
Auditor’s plans in regard to the establishment audit and the Audit Report. 
Proposed Divestiture Agent 
1) The finalised draft business sale agreement drafted by the Proposed Divestiture 
Agent in consultation with Elanco. The draft business sale agreement is to provide for 
the divestiture of the Unsold Business. 
2) The Proposed Divestiture Agent’s draft marketing and sale plan for the Unsold 
Business. 
Proposed Independent Manager  
1) The finalised draft separation and management plan for the Divestiture Business 
detailing the measures and timing to be implemented by Elanco and the Approved 
Independent Manager in order to fulfil Elanco’s and the Approved Independent 
Manager’s obligations pursuant to this Undertaking. This plan is to be drafted by the 
Proposed Independent Manager in consultation with Elanco to achieve the objectives 
of the Undertaking including: 
(a) the intended mode of operation of the Divestiture Business until completion 
of its divestiture; 
 
(b) separation measures to ensure the Divestiture Business is operated in a 
manner which is financially and operationally separate from Elanco, including 
the;  
(i) separation of the books and records of the Divestiture Business from 
those of Elanco, to the extent possible without compromising the 
viability of the Divestiture Business;  
(ii) severance of the Divestiture Business’ participation in any private 
shared information technology networks, to the extent possible 
without compromising the viability of the Divestiture Business; 
(iii) implementation of specific electronic, information and physical 
security measures to maintain the confidentiality of any competitively 
sensitive information of the Divestiture Business, to the extent 
possible without compromising the viability of the Divestiture 
Business; and 
(iv) severance of arrangements to share personnel and plant between 
the Divestiture Business and any businesses to be retained by 
Elanco, to the extent possible without compromising the viability of 
the Divestiture Business; 
(c) details of contracts for the provision of goods or services to the Divestiture 
Business which will expire after the completion of the divestiture of the 
Divestiture Business to the Approved Purchaser and the actions which will 


40 
 
be taken to ensure they are replaced, renewed and/or renegotiated on 
commercial terms favourable to the Divestiture Business;  
(d) personnel planning to maintain appropriate personnel levels and ensure that 
the Divestiture Business has access to all personnel necessary to operate 
the Divestiture Business;  
(e) any Material Changes to the Divestiture Business required in order to fulfil 
Elanco’s and the Approved Independent Manager’s obligations pursuant to 
the Undertaking; 
(f) the cooperation required from the Independent Manager with Elanco in 
relation to the divestiture of the Divestiture Business, including: 
(i) the activities to be conducted by the Independent Manager that are 
necessary for the effective operation of the Divestiture Business, 
having regard to the nature of the Divestiture Business (including the 
extent to which the Divestiture Business already has a management 
structure in place prior to the proposed acquisition that will be 
retained during the hold separate period);  
(ii) the method by which due diligence information, site visits and 
personnel interviews by and to prospective purchasers of the 
Divestiture Business will be managed;  
(iii) the method by which the Independent Manager and Elanco will 
preserve the confidentiality of the Divestiture Business’ competitively 
sensitive information from Elanco and its advisers throughout this 
process; and 
(iv) a protocol whereby the Approved Independent Manager can provide 
any information requested by Elanco without disclosing the details of 
the Divestiture Business’ competitively sensitive information to 
Elanco. 
 


41 
 
Schedule 4 – Divestiture Businesses   
 
Table 1: Avenge Sheep Lice Business 
Avenge Sheep 
Lice Business 
The product Avenge + Fly (imidacloprid), as accompanied by the assets, 
licences, agreements and other tangible and intangible property listed in this 
Table 1: Avenge Sheep Lice Business. 
Intellectual 
property 
Trade marks  
The trade mark listed below will be transferred to the Approved Purchaser. 
Trade mark 
Trade mark number 
AVENGE 
1301523 
Patents  
The following patents will be transferred to the Approved Purchaser. 
Patent name 
Patent number 
Improved myiasis control 
2015230729 
Improved myiasis control 
2018101849 
Improved myiasis control 
2018101848 
Domain names 
The following domain names will be transferred to the Approved Purchaser. 
Domain name 
avenge.com.au 
All books, records and files relating to the prosecution and maintenance of 
the trade marks, patents and domain names referred to above. 
Regulatory 
approvals 
APVMA registration  
The marketing authorisation for the Avenge Sheep Lice Business registered 
with the APVMA (as listed below) will be transferred to the Approved 
Purchaser.  
Product name 
Registration number 
Avenge + Fly blowfly strike 
prevention and lousicide for 
sheep spray-on pour-on 
62598 
 


42 
 
Permits 
All permits, licences, consents, planning permissions, product registrations, 
certifications or authorisations issued by a government agency or regulatory 
authority and related documentation to the extent not listed above and only 
insofar as required to facilitate the operation of the Avenge Sheep Lice 
Business. 
Correspondence 
All reports filed with and submissions to, and all other written 
correspondence with, any regulatory authority owned by and in the 
possession or control of Elanco as at the date of divestiture which are 
primarily related to, or required to facilitate the operation of, the Avenge 
Sheep Lice Business. 
Data, books and 
records 
Scientific and Regulatory Materials 
Elanco will transfer to the Approved Purchaser any Scientific and Regulatory 
Materials solely related to the Avenge Sheep Lice Business.  
Elanco will license to the Approved Purchaser any Scientific and Regulatory 
Materials that are not transferred to the Approved Purchaser, but which are 
used in connection with the development, manufacturing, marketing, 
commercialisation, distribution and sale of the Avenge Sheep Lice Business. 
Manufacturing Technology 
Elanco will transfer to the Approved Purchaser any Manufacturing 
Technology that is solely related to the Avenge Sheep Lice Business.  
Elanco will license to the Approved Purchaser any Manufacturing 
Technology that is not transferred to the Approved Purchaser, but which is 
used in connection with the development, manufacturing, marketing, 
commercialisation, distribution and sale of the Avenge Sheep Lice Business. 
Customer records 
All records of customers (current and historical), price lists, catalogues and 
mailing lists which are necessary to operate the Avenge Sheep Lice 
Business. 
Business records 
All business records (including business, financial and legal records, books, 
documents, literature, files, information and materials) created by Bayer and 
necessary to operate the Avenge Sheep Lice Business.  
Inventory  
All inventory of the Avenge Sheep Lice Business that exists as of the date of 
divestiture and is not already sold to a third party.  
Relevant 
contractual rights 
At the option of the Approved Purchaser, Elanco will transfer, assign or 
novate to the Approved Purchaser any Material Contract that is necessary 
for the Avenge Sheep Lice Business (only insofar as it relates to the Avenge 
Sheep Lice Business). 
For the avoidance of doubt, insofar as a Material Contract also relates to a 
Retained Product, Elanco will, at the Approved Purchaser’s option, assign or 
otherwise make available to the Approved Purchaser all such rights under 


43 
 
the Material Contract as are related to the Avenge Sheep Lice Business, but 
concurrently may retain similar rights for the purposes of the Retained 
Product(s). 
Other 
All merchandising materials relating to the Avenge Sheep Lice Business 
including flags, signs and banners will be transferred to the Approved 
Purchaser. 
At the option of the Approved Purchaser, inventory of power applicators 
(power dosers) that are necessary for the Avenge Sheep Lice Business, that 
exist as at the date of divestiture and are not already sold to a third party.  
 
 


44 
 
Table 2: Companion Animal Business 
Companion Animal  
Business 
The rights to the following products:  
- 
Drontal Dog (praziquantel, pyrantel embonate and febantel)  
- 
Drontal Cat (praziquantel and pyrantel embonate)  
- 
Profender (praziquantel and emodepside) and  
- 
Droncit (praziquantel), 
in Australia, as accompanied by the assets, licences, agreements and other 
tangible and intangible property listed in this Table 2: Companion Animal 
Business. 
Intellectual 
property 
Trade marks  
The trade marks listed below will be transferred to the Approved Purchaser: 
Trade mark 
Trade mark number 
DRONCIT 
223010 
DRONCIT SELFTAKE 
359657 
DRONTAL 
456771 
DRONTAL ALLWORMER 
473724 
MANSONIL 
156524 
PROCOX 
1329561   
PROFENDER 
945048 
Patents  
The following patents will be transferred to the Approved Purchaser: 
Patent name 
Patent number 
Endoparasiticide 
2006222314 
Prevention of vertical endoparasite 
infections  
2005306070 
Solid pharmaceutical formulation with 
delayed release  
2009243759 
Endoparasiticidal agents  
2001240605 
Crystal modification of a cyclic 
depsipeptide having improved strength  
2002226415 
Tablets with improved acceptance and 
good storage stability  
2013361760 


45 
 
Endoparasiticidal compositions (Expired) 
685535 
Domain names 
The following domain names will be transferred to the Approved Purchaser. 
Domain 
drontal.com.au 
procox.com.au 
All books, records and files relating to the prosecution and maintenance of 
the trade marks, patents and domain names referred to above. 
Regulatory 
approvals 
APVMA registrations 
The marketing authorisations for the Companion Animal Business registered 
with the APVMA (as listed below) will be transferred to the Approved 
Purchaser.   
Product name (as shown with APVMA) 
Registration 
number 
(Bayer) Droncit Tapewormer for Dogs 
and Cats 
51272 
Drontal Allwormer Chewable for Medium 
Dogs 
59291 
BAY-O-PET Drontal Allwormer Chewable 
for Dogs 
59292 
Drontal Allwormer Chewables for Large 
Dogs 
59290 
BAY-O-PET Drontal Allwormer Chewable 
for Large Dogs 
59289 
BAY-O-PET Drontal Allwormer for 
Medium Dogs 
46213 
Drontal Allwormer for Medium Dogs 
35822 
BAY-O-PET Drontal Allwormer for Small 
Dogs and Puppies 
46214 
Drontal Allwormer for Small Dogs & 
Puppies 
35825 
Drontal Allwormer for Large Dogs 
35824 
Drontal Cat Allwormer 
46718 


46 
 
Drontal Large Cat Allwormer 
53751 
Profender Allwormer for Cats 2.5 to 5kg 
59154 
Exelpet Vet Series Spot-On All-Wormer 
for Cats 2.5-5kg 
80191 
Profender Allwormer for Large Cats 5 to 
8kg 
59155 
Drontal Worming Suspension for Puppies 
48642 
Paratak Tapewormer for Dogs & Cats 
45655 
Advantage Drontal Allwormer Chewable 
for Dogs 
81481 
Paratak Plus 35 Broad Spectrum Wormer 
for Large Dogs 
50026 
Paratak Plus Broad Spectrum Wormer 
for Dogs 
45656 
Paratak Plus 40 Broad Spectrum Wormer 
for Large Dogs 
58330 
Advantage Drontal for Medium Dogs 
Allwormer Tablet 
80431 
BAY-O-PET Drontal Allwormer for Large 
Dogs 
46219 
BAY-O-PET Drontal Allwormer Cat 
Tablets 
53243 
Advantage Drontal for Cats Allwormer 
Tablet 
80141 
Profender Allwormer for Small Cats and 
Kittens 0.5 to 2.5kg 
59153 
Advantage Profender Allwormer for Cats 
2.5 to 5kg Worms 
69033 
Exelpet Vet Series Spot-On All-Wormer 
for Cats 5-8kg 
80193 
Permits 
All permits, licences, consents, planning permissions, product registrations, 
certifications or authorisations issued by a government agency or regulatory 
authority and related documentation to the extent not listed above and only 
insofar as required to facilitate the operation of the Companion Animal 
Business in Australia.  


47 
 
Correspondence 
All reports filed with and submissions to, and all other written 
correspondence with, any regulatory authority owned by and in the 
possession or control of Elanco as at the date of divestiture which are 
primarily related to, or required to facilitate the operation of, the Companion 
Animal Business in Australia. 
Data, books and 
records 
Scientific and Regulatory Materials 
Elanco will transfer to the Approved Purchaser any Scientific and Regulatory 
Materials solely related to the Companion Animal Business in Australia.  
Elanco will license to the Approved Purchaser any Scientific and Regulatory 
Materials that are not transferred to the Approved Purchaser, but which are 
used in connection with the development, manufacturing, marketing, 
commercialisation, distribution and sale of the Companion Animal Business 
in Australia. 
Manufacturing Technology 
Elanco will transfer to the Approved Purchaser any Manufacturing 
Technology that is solely related to the Companion Animal Business in 
Australia.  
Elanco will license to the Approved Purchaser any Manufacturing 
Technology that is not transferred to the Approved Purchaser, but which is 
used in connection with the development, manufacturing, marketing, 
commercialisation, distribution and sale of the Companion Animal Business 
in Australia. 
Customer records 
All records of customers (current and historical), price lists, catalogues and 
mailing lists which are necessary to operate the Companion Animal 
Business in Australia. 
Business records 
All business records (including business, financial and legal records, books, 
documents, literature, files, information and materials) created by Bayer and 
necessary to operate the Companion Animal Business in Australia. 
Inventory  
All inventory of the Companion Animal Business that exists as of the date of 
divestiture and is not already sold to a third party (as it relates to Australia).  
Relevant 
contractual rights 
At the option of the Approved Purchaser, Elanco will transfer, assign or 
novate to the Approved Purchaser any Material Contract that is necessary 
for the Companion Animal Business in Australia (only insofar as it relates to 
the Companion Animal Business in Australia). 
For the avoidance of doubt, insofar as a Material Contract also relates to a 
Retained Product, Elanco will, at the Approved Purchaser’s option, assign or 
otherwise make available to the Approved Purchaser all such rights under 
the Material Contract as are related to the Companion Animal Business in 
Australia, but concurrently may retain similar rights for the purposes of the 
Retained Product(s). 


48 
 
Other 
All merchandising materials relating to the Companion Animal Business in 
Australia including flags, signs and banners will be transferred to the 
Approved Purchaser. 


49 
 
Confidential Schedule 5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
