 
 
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
tel: (02) 6243 1368
mergers@accc.gov.au
www.accc.gov.au
Our ref:  
IM-72199 
 
 
Contact officer:  
Gabrielle Byrne / Jacob Babic 
Contact phone:  
(02) 9102 4016 / (03) 9910 9405 
 
6 September 2023 
Dear Interested Party 
Re:  Request for submissions: Bega’s proposed acquisition of the businesses 
and certain assets of Betta Milk and Meander Valley Dairy from TasFoods  
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
Bega Cheese Limited’s (Bega) proposed acquisition of the businesses and certain assets 
of Betta Milk and Meander Valley Dairy (Betta Milk and Meander Valley) from TasFoods 
Limited (TasFoods) and its subsidiaries (the proposed acquisition). Further details are 
provided at Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact of the proposed acquisition on 
competition. In particular, we are seeking your views on: 
 
the impact on prices or terms of supply farmers receive for their raw milk in 
Tasmania, and 
 
the impact on wholesale prices, retail prices, and / or quality of milk-based 
beverages, fresh white milk and fresh milk processing services in Tasmania. 
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
Please provide your response by 20 September 2023 via email with the title: Submission 
re: Bega/Betta Milk and Meander Valley - attention Gabrielle Byrne / Jacob Babic. If you 
require more time to respond, please let us know. 
If you would like to arrange a time to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any 
questions about this letter, please contact Gabrielle Byrne on (02) 9102 4016 or Jacob 
Babic on (03) 9910 9405. 


 
2 
 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public 
Mergers Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC treats sensitive information it receives during a merger review as confidential, and will 
not publish your submission. We will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our 
advisors/consultants) unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information 
legislation or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition and 
Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, we will notify 
you in advance where possible so that you have an opportunity to be heard. Therefore please 
clearly indicate if any information you provide is confidential. Our Informal Merger Review Process 
Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
Suzie Copley 
General Manager  
Policy, Coordination & Remedies 
 
 


 
3 
 
Attachment A 
Proposed acquisition 
Bega proposes to acquire the Betta Milk and Meander Valley Dairy businesses and 
certain assets from TasFoods Limited and its subsidiary, Van Diemen’s Land Dairy 
Pty Ltd (VDLD). As part of the transaction: 
 
Bega will acquire the Betta Milk and Meander Valley Dairy brands, Betta Milk 
and Meander Valley Dairy plant and equipment (excluding the land and 
buildings) and the staff in both divisions; 
 
Bega will acquire a perpetual licence to use the Pyengana Dairy brand for 
milk and cream products (but not the cheese products) in Australia, and 
acquire the plant and equipment for these products; 
 
Bega will acquire certain distribution assets of the target brands and inventory 
from TasFoods and VDLD. 
 
VDLD will retain ownership of the land and building associated with Betta Milk 
at Burnie, and TasFoods will retain the lease associated with Meander Valley 
Dairy at Launceston; and 
 
VDLD will enter into a lease agreement for Bega to lease the Burnie site and 
TasFoods will enter a sublease for Bega to lease the Launceston site. 
Total consideration for the proposed acquisition is approximately $11 million. 
TasFoods will continue to produce cheese products under the Pyengana Dairy 
brand. 
Bega 
Bega is an ASX listed company, headquartered in the town of Bega, New South 
Wales. In FY 2022 it had total revenue of approximately $3 billion. Bega is an 
integrated dairy and food products company with production sites across Australia. In 
Tasmania Bega has a fresh milk processing plant in Hobart, which was acquired from 
Lion Dairy & Drinks in 2021. This processing plant produces white milk, milk-based 
beverages and packaged cream. 
Betta Milk and Meander Valley Dairy 
Betta Milk and the Meander Valley Dairy businesses are currently owned and 
operated by TasFoods, which is a publicly listed company, and VDLD. The Betta Milk 
and Meander Valley Dairy businesses produce, market and distribute a range of 
dairy products under the following brands: 
 
Meander Valley Dairy produces specialty packaged cream and butter, which 
is largely sold in Australia 
 
Betta Milk produces fresh white milk, milk-based beverages and packaged 
cream, which are all sold in Tasmania.  
 
TasFoods also sells premium milk products in Tasmania under the Pyengana brand. 


 
4 
 
 
Attachment B 
1. Please describe your business or organisation and explain your interest in the 
proposed acquisition, including any commercial relationship(s) with Bega or 
TasFoods and / or its subsidiaries.  
Farmers 
2. List the processor(s) to which you currently sell your raw milk. 
3. What is the annual volume of raw milk you supply? Please break down the 
proportions supplied to different processors or supplied for other uses. What is 
your calving pattern (i.e. seasonal, split or year-round)? 
4. Are there any other processor(s) to which you could sell your raw milk? If so, 
please list them. If you decide to exclude any particular processors in your region 
from this list, please provide reasons why.  
5. Have you switched between processors in the past? If so, please indicate how 
frequently.  
a. If you have not switched processors in the past, have you used any 
competitive tension between processors to get better prices or non-price 
terms for your raw milk? Please provide any examples. 
6. What impact do you think the proposed acquisition will have on your business 
and the raw milk price you can obtain?  
Dairy processors 
7. Who do you consider are currently your closest competitors in acquiring raw milk 
in Tasmania? If there is a particular processor(s) in Tasmania that you do not 
consider you compete strongly with, please provide detail as to why. 
8. Please comment on whether you think the proposed acquisition will have an 
effect on competition for the acquisition of raw milk. If yes, please explain how. If 
no, please explain why not. 
9. Please comment on whether you currently have the capacity and capabilities to 
provide fresh milk processing service to third parties. If not, please comment on 
how readily you could expand your operations to supply fresh milk processing 
services to third parties, including but not limited to the investment needed and 
time required. 
Wholesalers and retailers  
10. Please comment on whether Bega and TasFoods are close competitors in the 
supply of fresh milk processing services and / or in the supply of fresh processed 
milk? 
11. Which fresh milk processor(s) do you currently use and / or acquire processed 
fresh milk from? 
12. Are there other processor(s) you could use and / or acquire processed fresh milk 
from? If no, please explain why not. 


 
5 
 
13. Please comment on whether the proposed acquisition will impact the prices or 
terms on which you currently acquire processed fresh milk and / or use fresh milk 
processors. Have you used any competitive tension between fresh milk 
processors to get better prices or non-price terms for processed fresh milk? 
Please provide any examples. 
14. Please comment on whether the proposed acquisition will impact the retail prices 
and / or quality of processed fresh milk in Tasmania. 
15. Please comment on whether the proposed acquisition will impact the wholesale 
prices, retail prices and / or quality of milk-based beverages in Tasmania. 
Other information or competition issues 
16. Please provide any additional information or comments that you consider relevant to 
the ACCC’s consideration of the proposed acquisition. 
 
