Undertaking to the Australian
Competition and Consumer
Commission
Given under section 87B of the Competition and
Consumer Act 2010 (Cth) by Gallagher
Holdings Limited (New Zealand company
number, ,87732)


I)
1.1.
Person giving the Undertaking
This Undertaking is given to the Australian Competition and Consumer
Commission (ACCC) by Gallagher Holdings Limited (New Zealand company
number 1487732), a company incorporated in New Zealand, on behalf of itself
and its subsidiaries including Gallagher Group Limited (New Zealand company
number 194068), Gallagher Australia Pty Limited (ACN 005 550 845) and
Gallagher Fuel Systems Australia Pty Ltd (ACN 127 441 308), and on behalf of
the Gallagher Australia Finance Holding Partnership (together referred to as
Gallagher in this Undertaking).
Background
2)
The Parties
2.1
Gallagher Holdings Limited, through Gallagher Group Limited, is involved in the
design, manufacture, and marketing of a range of animal management, security
and fuel systems products, induding electric fencing energisers and accessories
and animal weigh scales, which are exported to various countries including
Australia. Gallagher Australia operates as a sales and distribution company for
the Gallagher group's animal management products in Australia.
Country Electronic Pty Ltd, trading as Thunderbird Agricultural Products (ACN
003 806 040)(Thunderbird), is a manufacturer and supplier of electric fencing
energisers and accessories, weigh scales, and other animal management
products in Australia.
2.2
2.3
Gallagher Holdings Limited has a 14.86% interest in Tru~Test, a company
incorporated in New Zealand which manufactures and sells, in Australia and
other countries, a range of agricultural equipment including electric fencing
energisers and accessories, weigh scale and other animal management products
in Australia.
The Proposed Acquisition
Gallagher, through a wholly-owned subsidiary incorporated in Australia, proposes
to acquire the assets of Thunderbird (Proposed Acquisition),
2.4
The ACCC's review
The ACCC commenced its review of the Proposed Acquisition on 25 October
2012. The AGCC conducted marketinquiries and considered information
provided by Gallagher, industry participants and others, The purpose of the
AGCC's inquiries was to assess whether or notthe Proposed Acquisition would
have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of substantially lessening
competition in any marketin contravention of section 50 of the Act.
The ACCC's competition concerns
The ACCC has concluded that, in the absence of this Undertaking, the Proposed
Acquisition would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of substantially
lessening competition in the marketforthe supply of electric fence energisers in
Australia.
2.5
2.6
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission
under section 87B of the Competition and Consumer Act 2070 by Gallagher
Group Limited
II,


The ACCC was concerned that the relevant marketforthe supply of electric
fence energisers is already highly concentrated and will become further
concentrated as a result of the Proposed Acquisition.
Further, in the absence of this Undertaking, following completion of the Proposed
Acquisition, Gallagher would have an interest of up to 14.86% in its only
remaining major competitor in the supply of electric fence energisers.
The ACCC was concerned that, in the absence of this Undertaking, Gallagher
would have an increased ability and incentive to unilateralIy raise prices and
reduce the quality of its service offering since Gallagher, through its shareholding
in Tru-Test, would be in a position to receive a part of the profit made by Tru-Test
on sales to any customer lost to Tru-Test by Gallagher,
The ACCC was also concerned that following the Proposed Acquisition, the
highly concentrated market structure, together with the common ownership
between Gallagher and Tru-Test in the absence of this Undertaking, would
increase the likelihood of coordination between Gallagher and Tru-Test with
respect to their product, price and service offerings in the market.
The Undertaking remedy
Gallagher offers this Undertaking to divest the shareholding held by Gallagher
Holdings Limited in Tru-Test in order to address the ACCC's competition
concerns relating to the Proposed Acquisition, as set out above. The
Undertaking aims to achieve this objective by:
(a) providing for Gallagher to divest its shareholding in Tru-Test within a set
timeframe;
2.7
2.8
2.9
2.10
2.1 I
(b) maintaining the independence ofTru-Test and Gallagher while Gallagher
remains a shareholder by ensuring that Gallagher does not exercise any
influence over Tru"Test, and vice versa; and
(c) providing forthe effective oversight of Gallagher's compliance with this
Undertaking
3)
Commencement
Commencement of this Undertaking
3.1
This Undertaking comes into effect when:
(a) this Undertaking is executed by Gallagher; and
(b) this Undertaking so executed is accepted by the ACCC
(the Commencement Date).
2
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission
under section 87B of the Competition and Consumer Act 2070 by Gallagher
Group Limited
I, "


4)
Withdrawal
Cessation of Ongoing Obligations
4.1.
This Undertaking is taken to be withdrawn on the date the ACCC consents in
writing to the withdrawal of this Undertaking in accordance with section 87B of the
Act.
Revocation
4.2.
The ACCC may, at anytime, revoke its acceptance of this Undertaking ifthe
ACCC becomes aware that any information provided to it was incorrect,
in accurate or misleading.
Waiver
4.3.
The ACCC may, at any time, expressly waive in writing any of the obligations
contained in this Undertaking or amend the date by which any such obligation is
to be satisfied
Completion
Clauses I, 2, 3, 4, 8, 9, 10, 11, 42, 13, 14, 15, and 16 survive completion of the
obligations in clauses 5, 6 and 7.
4.4.
5)
Divestiture
Divestiture of Shares in Tru-Test
5.1.
Gallagher must, in accordance with this Undertaking, divest, or cause the
divestiture of the Shares to one or more Approved Purchasers within the initial
Sale Period
5.2.
Prior to the Commencement Date the ACCC approved Tru-Test as an Approved
Purchaser of the Shares.
5.3.
In the eventthat Gallagherfails to divest some or all of the Shares to one or more
Approved Purchasers by the end of the Initial Sale Period, clause 8) applies.
Divestiture of the Shares to an Approved Purchaser
6)
Divestiture only to an Approved Purchaser
Within the Initial Sale Period, Gallagher must divest the Shares to one or more
6.1
Approved Purchasers.
Gallagher must not authorise the Approved Divestiture Agent to divest the
Shares to a purchaser other than an Approved Purchaser.
Provision of a notice for a Proposed Purchaser
6.2
3
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission
under section 87B of the Competition and Consumer Act 2070 by Gallagher
Group Limited
11


To seek approval for a Proposed Purchaser, Gallagher must provide the ACCC
with a Proposed Purchaser Notice in the form prescribed in Schedule 2 to this
Undertaking (Proposed Purchaser Notice).
The Proposed Purchaser Notice must be provided to the ACCC alleast
10 Business Days prior to the end of the Initial Sale Period.
Approval of a Proposed Purchaser
6.4. After receiving a Proposed Purchaser Notice, the ACCC must decide whether to:
(a) approve the person named in the Proposed Purchaser Notice as an
Approved Purchaser which indudes approving the draft sale and purchase
agreement attached to the Proposed Purchaser Notice:
(b) not approve the person named in the Proposed Purchaser Notice as an
Approved Purchaser.
Withoutlimiting the ACCC's discretion, in making the decision described in clause
6.4, the factors to which the ACCC may have regard include whether the:
(a) draft sale and purchase agreement is consistent with this Undertaking and
otherwise acceptable to the ACCC;
(b) Proposed Purchaser will complete the transaction as contemplated by the
draft sale and purchase agreement;
(c) Proposed Purchaser is independent of, and has no direct or indirectinterest
in, Galagher;
(d) Proposed Purchaser is of good financial standing; and
(e) divestiture of the Shares to the Proposed Purchaser will address any
competition concerns of the ACCC.
Within 5 Business Days after receiving a Proposed Purchaser Notice, the ACCC
must notify Gallagher in writing of its decisions made pursuant to clause 6.4.
The ACCC may extend the period within which it will provide the notice described
in clause 6.6 by notifying Gallagher in writing of the extension within 5 Business
Days after receiving the Proposed Purchaser Notice.
Any extension of time by the AGCC PUTSuantto clause 6.7 extends the Initial Sale
Period by the same length of time.
The ACCC may revoke an Approved Purchaser's status as the Approved
Purchaser ifthe ACCC becomes aware that any information provided to it was
incorrect, inaccurate or misleading.
Protection of the Shares
6.3
6.4
6.5
6.6,
6.7.
6.8.
6.9.
7)
Protection of the Shares
7.1.
From the Commencement Date, Gallagher must nottransferthe Shares or cause
the Shares to be transferred, exceptin accordance with this Undertaking.
4
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission
under section 87B of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 by Gallagher
Group Limited
I
I
I
I


Gallagher's obligations in relation to the Shares
From the Commencement Date until completion of the divestiture of the Shares in
accordance with this Undertaking, Gallagher must:
72.
(a) exceptto the extentrequired to facilitate the divestiture of the Shares in
accordance with this Undertaking, give all of Gallagher Holdings
Limited's voting rights attached to the Shares to the Chairman of Tru-
Test's board of directors by way of proxy, with such voting rights to be
exercised at the Chairman's sole discretion;
(b)
(c) riotseek representation on the board of directors ofTru-Test
Gallagher must not, during the term of this Undertaking, take steps to appoint(or
cause the appointment) to the board of directors of Gallagher, a person who is at
that time a director of Tru-Test, subject to Gallagher's obligation to accept
nominations for election as a director of Gallagher at a general meeting, and
Gallagher shareholders' right to appoint any person they wish as a director of
Gallagher by ordinary resolution.
Direction to personnel of Gallagher
As soon as practicable after the Commencement Date, Gallagher must directits
personnel, including directors, contractors, managers, officers, employees and
agents, not to do anything inconsistent with Gallagher's obligations under this
Undertaking .
except to the extent required to facilitate the divestiture of the Shares in
accordance with this Undertaking, not exercise any voting rights attached
to the Shares; and
7.3.
7.4.
Confidential Information
7.5.
Subject to clause 7.6, Gallagher must not, at any time from the Commencement
Date, use or disclose any confidential information about Tru-Test gained through:
(a) ownershipoftheShares;or
7.6.
(b) fulfillinganyobligationspursuanttothis Undertaking,
Clause 7.5 does not apply to information that Gallagher requires to:
(a) comply with legal and regulatory obligations including obligations relating to
taxation, accounting, financial reporting or stock eXchange disclosure
requirements; or
(b) carry out its obligations pursuant to this Undertaking;
provided such information is only used forthat purpose and is only disclosed to
those officers, employees, contractors and advisers of Gallagher who need to
know the information to carry outthe permitted purpose.
5
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission
under section 87B of the Coinpetilibn and Consumer Act 2070 by Gallagher
Group Limited


8)
Divestiture of the Unsold Shares
Failure to divest the Shares by the end of the Initial Sale Period
8.1.
In the eventthatthe divestiture of some or all of the Shares to an Approved
Purchaser is not completed by the end of the Initial Sale Period, those Shares
become unsold shares and the provisions of this clause 8 apply (Unsold
Shares)
Obligation to appoint an Approved Divestiture Agent
From the end of the Initial Sale Period, Gallagher must appoint and maintain an
Approved Divestiture Agent to effectthe divestiture of the Unsold Shares.
Without limiting its obligations in this Undertaking, Gallagher must from the end of
the Initial Sale Period:
8.2.
8.3.
(a) comply with and enforce the Approved Terms of Appointment forthe
Approved Divestiture Agent;
(b) maintain and fund the Approved Divestiture Agent to carry out his or her
functions, including:
(i) indemnifying the Approved Divestiture Agentforanyexpenses. loss,
claim or damage arising directly or indirectly from the performance
by the Approved Divestiture Agent of his or her functions as the
Approved Divestiture Agent except where such expenses, loss,
claim or damage arises out of the gross negligence, fraud,
misconduct or breach of duty by the Approved Divestiture Agent;
(11) providing and paying for any external expertise, assistance or advice
required by the Approved Divestiture Agent to perform his or her
functions as the Approved Divestiture Agent; and
(iii) paying such fees as are agreed between the Approved Divestiture
Agent and Gallagher(but notfees contingent on the price to be
obtained forthe Unsold Shares);
(Iv) if an agreement as to fees cannot be reached between the Approved
Divestiture Agent and Gallagher within 15 Days after the end of the
Initial Sale Period, Gallagher agrees to pay such fees as are directed
by the ACCC;
(c) notinterfere with, or otherwise hinder, the Approved Divestiture Agent's
ability to carry out his or her functions as the Approved Divestiture Agent,
including:
(1) directing its personnel, including directors, contractors, managers,
officers, employees and agents, to actin accordance with this
clause 8; and
(Ii)
providing to the Approved Divestiture Agent any information,
documents or other assistance requested by the Approved
Divestiture Agentthat he or she considers necessary for carrying out
6
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission
under section 87B of the Competition and Consumer Act 2070 by Gallagher
Group Limited


his or her functions as the Approved Divestiture Agent or for
reporting to or otherwise advising the ACCC;
(d) within three Business Days after receiving notice from the ACCC pursuantto
clause 6.6 that the ACCC has approved a Proposed Purchaser, Galagher
must instructthe Approved Divestiture Agent to complete the divestiture of
some or all of the Unsold Shares to that Approved Purchaser in accordance
with the documents approved by the AGCC pursuant to clause 6.6; and
(e) other than in accordance with clause 8.3(d) of this Undertaking, notinstruct
the Approved Divestiture Agent to divest the Unsold Shares.
Approval of the Approved Divestiture Agent
At least I5 Business Days prior to the end of the Initial Sale Period, ifthe
divestiture of allthe Shares to one or more Approved Purchasers has not been
completed, Gallagher must provide the AGCC with a notice for a Proposed
Divestiture Agent in the form of Schedule 3 to this Undertaking (Proposed
Divestiture Agent Notice).
After receiving a Proposed Divestiture Agent Notice, the ACCC must decide
whether to:
8.4.
8.5.
(a) approve the appointment of the person named in the Proposed Divestiture
Agent Notice as the Approved Divestiture Agent which includes approving
the:
(i)
terms of appointment attached to the Proposed Divestiture Agent
Notice;
(ii)
(iii) draft marketing and sale plan attached to the Proposed Divestiture
Agent Notice; or
(b) not approve the person named in the Proposed Divestiture Agent Notice as
the Approved Divestiture Agent.
If clause 8.5(b) applies, the ACCC may, alits absolute discretion:
(a) direct Gallagher to submit a Proposed Divestiture Agent Notice that:
(i) names a person identified by the AGCC as the Proposed Divestiture
Agent; and/or
draft share sale agreement attached to the Proposed Divestiture
Agent Notice; and
8.6
(ii)
includes attachments that:
(A)
relate to the person identified by the ACCC under clause 8.6(a)
(if applicable); and/or
address any issues identified by the ACCC in relation to the
terms of appointment, draft business sale agreement, and/or
draft marketing and sale plan; or
(B)
7
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission
under section 87B of the Competition and Consumer Act 2070 by Gallagher
Group Limited


(b) identify and approve a person as the Approved Divestiture Agenttogether
with the:
draft share sale agreement and/or
draft marketing and sale plan.
As soon as practicable, and within two Business Days after any direction by the
ACCC under clause 8.6(a), Gallagher must submit a Proposed Divestiture Agent
Notice in accordance with the direction.
( I)
8.7,
(ii)
terms of appointment;
(iii)
8.8.
Without limiting the ACCC's discretion, in making the decisions described in
clause 8.5 or 8.6, the factors to which the ACCC may have regard include
whether the:
(a) person named in the Proposed DivestitureAgent Noticeor identified by
the AGCC has the qualifications and experience necessary to carry out
the functions of the Approved Divestiture Agent;
(b) person named in the Proposed DivestitureAgent Notice or identified by
the AGCC is sufficiently independent of Gallagher;
(c) terms of appointment, draftshare saleagreementand draft marketing
and sale plan are consistent with this Undertaking; and
(d) terms of appointment, draftsharesale agreement and draft marketing
and sale plan are otherwise acceptable to the ACCC.
Within to Business Days after receiving a Proposed Divestiture Agent Notice, the
ACCC must notify Gallagher in writing of its decisions and any direction made
PUTSuantto clause 8.5 and/or 8.6.
8.9
8.10,
The AGCC may extend the period within which it will provide notice of the
decision or direction (if applicable) described in clause 8.9 by notifying Gallagher
in writing of the extension within 10 Business Days after receiving the Proposed
Divestiture Agent Notice.
8.11.
Any extension of time by the ACCC under clause 8.10 extends the Initial Sale
Period by the same length of time.
8.12.
Ifthe Approved Divestiture Agent has not been appointed:
(a) within 10 Business Days after the Shares become the Unsold Shares;
(b) within I7 Business Days after the Approved Divestiture Agentresigns or
otherwise ceases to act pursuant to clauses 8.18, 8.19 or 8.20; or
(c) ifthe ACCC has notreceived a Proposed Divestiture Agent Notice pursuant
to clause 8.21;
8.1 3.
then the provisions of clause 8.13 apply.
If clause 8.12 applies, the ACCC may, at its absolute discretion:
8
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission
under section 87B of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 by Gallagher
Group Limited
I


(a) identify and approve a person as the Approved Divestiture Agent;
(b) approve the terms of appointment of the Approved Divestiture Agent;
(c) approve the draft share sale agreement; and
(d) approve the draft marketing and sale plan.
Appointment of the Approved Divestiture Agent
8.14. After receiving notice from the ACCC of its decisions pursuant to clause 8.5,
8.6(b) or 8.43, Gallagher must within two Business Days:
(a) appointthe person approved by the ACCC as the Approved Divestiture
Agent on the Approved Terms of Appointment; and
(b) forward to the ACCC a copy of the executed Approved Terms of
Appointment within one Business Day of execution.
Obligations and powers of the Approved Divestiture Agent
8.15. Gallagher must procure that any proposed terms of appointment forthe Approved
Divestiture Agent include obligations on the Approved Divestiture Agentto:
(a)
maintain his or herindependence from Gallagher apart from appointment
to the role of Approved Divestiture Agent, including notform any
relationship of the types described in paragraph 2(c) of Schedule 3 to this
Undertaking with Gallagherforthe period of his or her appointment;
not use any confidential information gained through the divestiture of the
Unsold Shares other than for performing his or her functions as
Approved Divestiture Agent;
(b)
(c)
(d)
follow the Approved Marketing and Sale Plan;
divest the Unsold Shares only to one or more Approved Purchasers, with
no obligation imposed by Gallagher to achieve a divestiture at a
minimum price;
(e)
use his or her best endeavours to enter into a binding agreement for the
divestiture of the Unsold Shares as quickly as possible using the
Approved Share Sale Agreement;
every 30 Business Days following appointment of the Approved
Divestiture Agent, provide written reports directly to the ACCC which
include:
(f)
I.
information regarding the implementation of the Approved Share
Sale Agreement and the Approved Marketing and Sale Plan
including any previous changes approved by the AGCC;
information regarding any suggested changes to any Approved
Marketing and Sale Plan induding any previous changes
approved by the ACCC;
2.
9
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission
under section 87B of the Competition and Consumer Act20fO by Gallagher
Group Limited
.,/I^"
I


3. ariaccountandexplanationofalldisbursements, feesand
charges incurred by the Approved Divestiture Agentin
undertaking his or her duties by month and to the date of the
report;
4. aschedule of agreed fees of the Approved Divestiture Agent
(including the fees of any adviser appointed under clause
8.16(c);
5, the effortsmadetoselltheUnsold Shares;
6. the identity of anyadvisersengaged;
7. the identity of any persons expressing interest in the Unsold
Shares; and
8. anyotherinformationrequiredbytheACCC.
within 30 Business Days after the completion of the divestiture of the
Unsold Shares, provide a written report directly to the AGCC which
includes a final accounting of:
I, any moneys derived from the divestitureofthe Unsold Shares;
2. alldisbursements, feesandchargesincurred by the Approved
Divestiture Agent in fulfilling his or her duties; and
3. allagreedfees of the Approved DivestitureAgent(including the
fees of any adviser appointed under clause 8.16(c);
immediately inform the ACCC (and Gallagher) of
any issues that arise in relation to the implementation of any
Approved Share Sale Agreement and any Approved Marketing
and Sale Plan;
nori-compliance with this Undertaking by any person named in
this Undertaking;
any offers forthe Unsold Shares;
co accept any offer forthe Unsold Shares upon instruction from Gallagher
given in accordance with clause 8.3(d); and
co follow any direction given to him or her by the ACCC in relation to the
performance of his or her functions as Approved Divestiture Agent pursuant
to this Undertaking.
8.16. Gallagher must procure that any proposed terms of appointment forthe Approved
Divestiture Agent contain an irrevocable grant of power of attorney conferring all
necessary power and authority on the Approved Divestiture Agentto:
(a) negotiate with purchasers to divest the Unsold Shares on terms
considered by the Approved Divestiture Agentin his or her sole
discretion to be consistent with this Undertaking;
10
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission
under section 87B of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 by Gallagher
Group Limited
(9)
(h)
I.
2
3.
I


(b)
(c) engageanyexternalexpertise, assistance or advice required by the
Approved Divestiture Agent to perform his or her functions as the
Approved Divestiture Agent.
8.17. Any irrevocable power of attorney granted pursuantto clause 8.16 will end upon
resignation or termination of the Approved Divestiture Agent in accordance with
clauses 8.18, 8.19 and 8.20, or in the eventthatthe Unsold Shares are divested
in accordance with this Undertaking.
Resignation, revocation ortermination of the Approved Divestiture Agent
8.18. Gallagher must immediately notify the ACCC in the eventthat an Approved
Divestiture Agent resigns or otherwise stops acting as an Approved Divestiture
Agent before the completion of the divestiture of the Unsold Shares.
8.19. The AGCC may revoke an Approved Divestiture Agent's status as the Approved
Divestiture Agentifthe ACCC becomes aware that any information provided to it
was incorrect, inaccurate or misleading.
8.20. The ACCC may approve any proposal by, or alternatively may direct, Gallagher
to terminate an Approved Divestiture Agentifin the ACCC's viewthe Approved
Divestiture Agent acts inconsistently with the provisions of this Undertaking orthe
Approved Terms of Appointment.
upon instruction pursuantto clause 8.3(d), complete the divestiture of the
Unsold Shares to the Approved Purchaser in accordance with the
Approved Share Sale Agreement; and
8.21
If clause 8.18, 8.19 or 8.20 applies then Gallagher must provide the ACCC with a
Proposed Divestiture Agent Notice within five Business Days, otherwise clause
8.13 applies.
9)
9.1.
Jurisdiction
Gallagher Holdings Limited and Gallagher Group Limited submit to the jurisdiction
of the Federal Court of Australia in relation to this Undertaking.
Notwithstanding clause I 5.2, unless and until notified in writing by Gallagher
Holdings Limited to the ACCC of the appointment of another person as an agent
within Australia, Gallagher Holdings Limited irrevocably appoints Gallagher
Australia Pty Limited as its agentforthe purposes of any service of process in
relation to this Undertaking.
Reporting and provision of information
9.2.
to)
Reporting
10.1.
Gallagher must, within 10 Business Days of the Commencement Date and at
monthly intervals thereafter, but ending with the first reportthatis required under
this clause after the divestiture of the Shares pursuantto this Undertaking has
been completed, provide a written report to the AGCC which, forthe period since
the previous report(or in the case of the firstreport, since the Commencement
Date), details:
11
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission
under section 87B of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 by Gallagher
Group Limited


(a) whether its obligations under this Undertaking have been met at all
times;
(b) any actual or potential breaches of its obligations pursuantto this
Undertaking;
(c) the processes followed by Gallagherto ensure its compliance with this
Undertaking;
(d) the number of Shares held by Gallagherin Tru-Test;
(e) the expected date(s) for divestiture of the Shares;
co the identity of any expected purchaser, or any potential purchaser, of
the Shares; and
Information
(9) the processes followed by Gallagher when gathering information in
order to make its assessment pursuant to 10.1(a) and 10.1(b).
10.2.
Gallagher must notify the ACCC and, if clause 8 applies, the Approved
Divestiture Agent, in writing of the proposed date of each of the following events
alleastfive Business Days before each is proposed to occur:
(a) the ControlDate;and
(b) the completion of the divestitureoftheShares.
Gallagher must notify the ACCC in writing of the occurrence of each of the
following events within one Business Day after the date the event occurs:
10.3.
(a) the ControlDate; and
I0.4.
(b) the completion of the divestiture of any Shares.
The AGCC may direct Gallagher in respect of its compliance with this
Undertaking to, and Gallagher must:
(a) furnish information to the ACCC in the time and in the form requested by the
ACCC;
(b) produce documents and materials to the ACCC within Gallagher's custody,
power or control in the time and in the form requested by the ACCC; and/or
(c) attend the AGCC at a time and place appointed by the AGCC to answer any
questions the ACCC (its Commissioners, its staff or its agents) may have.
Any direction made by the ACCC under clause 10.4 will be notified to Gallagher
in accordance with clause 15.2.
I0.5.
I0.6.
in respect of Gallagher's compliance with this Undertaking or an Approved
Divestiture Agent's compliance with its Approved Terms of Appointment, the
ACCC may request any Approved Divestiture Agentto:
12
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission
under section 87B of the Competition and Consumer Act 2070 by Gallagher
Group Limited


(a) furnish information to the AGCC in the time and in the form requested by the
AGCC;
(b) produce documents and materials to the ACCC within the Approved
Divestiture Agent's custody, power or control in the time and in the form
requested by the ACCC; and/or
(c) attend the AGCC at a time and place appointed by the AGCC to answer any
questions the ACCC (its Commissioners, its staff or its agents) may have.
Gallagher will use its best endeavours to ensure that an Approved Divestiture
Agent complies with any request from the AGCC in accordance with clause 10.6.
Information furnished, documents and material produced or information given in
response to any request or direction from the ACCC under this clause to may be
used by the ACCC for any purpose consistent with the exercise of its statutory
duties.
10.7.
I0.8
10.9.
The AGCC may in its discretion to be exercised in good faith:
(a) advise the Approved Divestiture Agent of any request made by it under this
clause 10; and/or
(b) provide copies to the Approved Divestiture Agent of any information
furnished, documents and material produced or information given to it under
this clause 10.
10.10, Nothing in this clause to requires the provision of information or documents in
respect of which Gallagher has a claim of legal professional or other privilege.
II)
11.1,
Disclosure of this Undertaking
GallagheT and the AGCC agree that Schedule 4 will remain confidential at all
times.
11.2.
Gallagher acknowledges that the ACCC may provide each Approved Divestiture
Agent with a copy of this Undertaking which includes an unredacted version of
confidential Schedule 4.
11.3.
Gallagher acknowledges that the ACCC may, subject to clause 11.1:
(a) make this Undertaking publicly available; and
(b) publish this Undertaking on its Public Section 87B Undertakings Register;
and
II. 4.
(c) from time to time publicly refer to this Undertaking.
Nothing in clause 11.1 orthe confidential parts of this Undertaking referred to in
clause 11.1 prevents the ACCC from disclosing such information as is:
(a) required by law;
(by permitted by s 155AAA of the Act;
13
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission
under section 87B of the Coinpetilibn and Consumer Act 2010 by Gallagher
Group Limited
I


(c) necessary forthe purpose of enforcement action under section 87B of the
Act; or
(d) necessary forthe purpose of making such marketinquiries as the ACCC
thinks fit to assess the impact on competition arising in connection with this
Undertaking.
Nothing in clause 11.1 or the confidential parts of this Undertaking referred to in
clause 11.1 prevents the ACCC from using the information contained in this
Undertaking for any purpose consistent with its statutory functions and powers.
4 1.5.
12)
12.1.
Obligation to procure
Where the performance of an obligation under this Undertaking requires a
Related Body Corporate of Gallagher to take or refrain from taking some action,
Gallagher will procure that Related Body Corporate to take or refrain from taking
that action, as the case may be.
13)
13.1
NO Derogation
This Undertaking does not preventthe ACCC from taking enforcement action at
any time whether during or after the period of this Undertaking in respect of any
breach by Gallagher of any term of this Undertaking
Nothing in this Undertaking is intended to restrictthe right of the ACCC to take
action under the Act for penalties or other remedies in the eventthat Gallagher
does notfully implement and/or perform its obligations under this Undertaking or
in any other event where the AGCC decides to take action under the Actfor
penalties or other remedies.
13.2.
14)
14.1
Costs
Gallagher must pay all of its own costs incurred in relation to this Undertaking.
15
Giving Notices
Notices
15.1
Any notice or communication to the ACCC pursuant to this Undertaking must be
sent to:
Email address
With a copy sentto:
mer ers accc, ov. au
Attention: Executive General Manager
Mergers and Adjudication Group
14
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission
under section 87B of the Coinpetitibn and Consumer Act 2010 by Gallagher
Group Limited
mer ersucu
Director, Undertaking Compliance Unit
Coordination and Strategy Branch
Mergers and Adjudication Group
accc. ov, au
I


I5.2
Any notice or communication to Gallagher pursuantto this Undertaking must be
sent to:
Name:
Gallagher Group Limited
181 Kahikatea Drive, MeIville, Hamilton 3206, New Zealand
EmailAddress: steve. tucker@gallagher. co.
Faxnumber: +6478389899
Address:
Attention:
With a copy sentto:
Name:
Truman HDyle Lawyers
Leveli1, 68 Pitt Street, Sydney NSW 2000
EmailAddress: kedghill@trumanhoyle. comau
Faxnumber: +61 292269899
Address:
Sieve Tucker
Kathryn Edghill
15.3. If sent by post, notices are taken to be received three Business Days after
posting (or seven Business Days after posting if sent to or from a place outside
Australia).
,5.4. If sent by email, notices are taken to be received at the time shown in the email
as the time the email was sent.
Change of contact details
15.5. Gallagher or the AGCC must notify the other party of a change to its contact
details within three Business Days.
15.6. Any notice or communication will be sent to the most recently advised contact
details and subject to clause 15.3 and 15.4, will be taken to be received,
Attention:
I6)
Definitions in the Dictionary
16.4. A term or expression starting with a capital letter:
(a) which is defined in the Dictionary in Part I of Schedule I (Dictionary), has
the meaning given to it in the Dictionary; or
(b) which is defined in the Corporations Act, butts not defined in the Dictionary,
has the meaning given to it in the Corporations Act.
Interpretation
Defined terms and interpretation
15
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission
under section 87B of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 by Gallagher
Group Limited
I'


I6.2.
Part 2 of Schedule I sets outrules of interpretation forthis Undertaking
16
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission
under section 87B of the Competition and Consumer Act 2070 by Gallagher
Group Limited


Executed as an Undertaking
Executed by Gallagher Holdings Limited by:
Signature of director
Name of director(print)
11^^,,
,
Date I^-/2-/3
Accepted by the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission pursuant to section 87B of the
Competition and Consumer Act20fOon:
^/
<.
And signed on behalf of the Commission:
,
Signature of a director
Chairman
10/1, I
Name of director(print)
'14 LA
Date
11ft 12, .,/
13 - 12--- ~ 12
Date
I^
12. . I
Date
17
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission
under section 87B of the Competition and Consumer Act 2070 by Gallagher
Group Limited


Schedule I
I. Dictionary
ACCC means the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission.
Act means the Competition and Consumer Act 2070 (Cth).
Agreements means any contract, arrangement or understanding, including any contract,
arrangement or understanding to renew, amend, vary or extend any contract,
arrangement or understanding,
Approved Divestiture Agent means the person appointed under clause 8.4 of this
Undertaking.
Approved Marketing and Sale Plan means the plan approved by the ACCC in
accordance with the terms of this Undertaking, as amended from time to time by ACCC
direction given under clause 8.13(d) of this Undertaking, by which the Approved
Divestiture Agent will market and effectthe divestiture of the Unsold Shares
Approved Purchaser means Tru-Test, the Confidential Approved Purchaser identified in
clause 2 of Confidential Schedule 4 to this Undertaking, or any other person approved by
the ACCC under this Undertaking as a purchaser of Shares.
Approved Share Sale Agreement means a contractforthe divestiture of some or all of
the Unsold Shares which has been approved by the AGCC in accordance with the terms
of this Undertaking.
Approved Terms of Appointment means the terms of appointment forthe Approved
Divestiture Agent as approved by the AGCC in accordance with the terms of this
Undertaking.
Associated Entity has the meaning given by section 50AAA of the Corporations Act.
Business Day means a day other than a Saturday or Sunday on which banks are open
for business generally in the Australian Capital Territory.
Commencement Date means the date described in clause 3.1 of this Undertaking.
Control Date means the date on which the Proposed Acquisition is completed.
Corporations Act means the CorporationsAct 2007 (Cth).
Entities Connected has the meaning given by section 64B of the Corporations Act.
Gallagher has the meaning given to it in clause 1.1 of this Undertaking.
Initial Sale Period is defined in clause I of Confidential Schedule 4 to this Undertaking.
Proposed Acquisition is defined in clause 2.4 of this Undertaking.
Proposed Divestiture Agent means a person named in a Proposed Divestiture Notice
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission
under section 87B of the Competition and Consumer Act 2070 by Gallagher
Group Limited


Proposed Divestiture Agent Notice means a completed notice in the form of Schedule
3 to this Undertaking provided to the AGCC with allrequired attachments in relation to
the Proposed Divestiture Agent.
Proposed Purchaser means a person named in a Proposed Purchaser Notice.
Proposed Purchaser Notice means a completed notice in the form of Schedule 2 to this
Undertaking provided to the ACCC with allrequired attachments in relation to the
Proposed Purchaser.
Public Section 87B Undertakings Register means the ACCC's public register of
section 87B undertakings, available at WWW. accc
Related Bodies Corporate has the meaning given to it by section 50 of the Corporations
Act,
Related Entities has the meaning given to it by section 9 of the Corporations Act
Related Parties has the meaning given to it by section 228 of the Corporations Act,
Shares means all of the shares in Tru-Test held by Gallagher, which as at the date of
this Undertaking is 5,425,322 shares.
Subsidiary has the meaning given by section 4A of the Act.
Tru-Test means Tru-Test Corporation Limited (New Zealand company number '04/08 ).
Undertaking is a reference to all provisions of this document, including its schedules and
as varied from time to time under section 87B of the Act.
Unsold Shares has the meaning given to it in clause 8.1 of this Undertaking,
ov. au.
2.
2.1
Interpretation
In the interpretation of this Undertaking, the following provisions apply unless the
context otherwise requires:
(a) a reference to this Undertaking includes all of the provisions of this document
including its schedules;
(b) headings are inserted for convenience only and do not affectthe
interpretation of this Undertaking;
(c) ifthe day on which any act, matter or thing is to be done under this
Undertaking is not a Business Day, the act, matter orthing must be done on
the next Business Day;
(d) a reference in this Undertaking to any law, legislation or legislative provision
includes any statutory modification, amendment orre-enactment, and any
subordinate legislation or regulations issued under that legislation or
legislative provision;
(e) a reference in this Undertaking to any company includes its Related Bodies
Corporate;
2
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission
under section 87B of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 by Gallagher
Group Limited
I
I


a reference in this Undertaking to any agreement or document is to that
agreement or document as amended, novated, supplemented or replaced;
(9) a reference to a clause, part, schedule or attachment is a reference to a
clause, part. schedule or attachment of or to this Undertaking;
(h) an expression importing a natural person includes any company, trust,
partnership, joint venture, association, body corporate or governmental
agency;
(i) where a word or phrase is given a defined meaning, another part of speech
or other grammatical form in respect of that word or phrase has a
corresponding meaning;
in a word which denotes the singular also denotes the plural, a word which
denotes the plural also denotes the singular, and a reference to any gender
also denotes the other genders;
(k) a reference to the words 'such as','including','particularly' and similar
expressions is to be construed without limitation;
(1) a construction that would promote the purpose - or object - underlying the
Undertaking (whether expressly stated or not) will be preferred to a
construction that would not promote that purpose or object;
(in) material not forming part of this Undertaking may be considered to:
(i) confirm the meaning of a clause is the ordinary meaning conveyed by
the text of the clause, taking into accountits context in the Undertaking
and the competition concerns intended to be addressed by the
Undertaking and the clause in question; or
determine the meaning of the clause when the ordinary meaning
conveyed by the text of the clause, taking into accountits contextin the
Undertaking and the purpose or object underlying the Undertaking, leads
to a resultthat does not promote the purpose or object underlying the
Undertaking;
(n) in determining whether consideration should be given to any material in
accordance with paragraph (in), or in considering any weightto be given to
any such material, regard must be had. in addition to any other relevant
matters, to the:
effectthatreliance on the ordinary meaning conveyed by the text of the
clause would, have (taking into account its context in the Undertaking
and whether that meaning promotes the purpose or object of the
Undertaking); and
(ii) need to ensure that the result of the Undertaking is to completely
address any ACCC competition concerns;
(0) the ACCC mayauthorise the Mergers Review Committee, a member of the
ACCC or a member of the ACCC staff, to exercise a decision making
function under this Undertaking on its behalf and that authorisation may be
subject to any conditions which the ACCC may impose;
3
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission
under section 87B of the Coinpetilibn and Consumer Act 2010 by Gallagher
Group Limited


(p) in performing its obligations under this Undertaking, Gallagher will do
everything reasonably within its power to ensure that its performance of
those obligations is done in a manner which is consistent with promoting the
purpose and object of this Undertaking;
(q) a reference to:
(i) a thing (including, but notlimited to, a chose in action or other right
includes a part of that thing;
(Ii) a party includes its successors and permitted assigns; and
(iii) a monetary amountis in Australian dollars.
4
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission
under section 87B of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 by Gallagher
Group Limited


Schedule 2- Proposed Purchaser Notice Form
Please note in relation to information given on or in relation to this form, giving false or
misleading information is a serious offence,
The completed form with requested documents attached may be provided to the ACCC
using the following method:
Email
Subject line:
Address:
Attention:
With an email copy sentto:
Address:
Proposed Purchaser Notice - Gallagher Undertaking
mer ers
Attention:
Strategy Branch
I) In relation to the Proposed Purchaser, please provide the following information:
(a) Name of the Proposed Purchaser:
(by Address:
(c) Contact name:
(d) Telephone number:
Executive General Manager- Mergers and Adjudication Group
accc. ov. au
mer ersucu
Director, Undertaking Compliance Unit Merger Coordination and
accc. ov. au
2) Please attach a submission containing the following information to this form:
(a) a description of the business carried on by the Proposed Purchaser including
the locations in which the Proposed Purchaser carries on its business
(b) the names of the owner/s and the directors (as applicable) of the Proposed
Purchaser.
(e) Other contact details:
(c) details of any of the following types of relationships between Gallagher and
the Proposed Purchaser or confirmation that no such relationship exists
whether within Australia or outside of Australia:
(1) Gallagher and the Proposed Purchaser are Associated Entities;
(ii) Gallagheris an Entity Connected with the Proposed Purchaser;
(ill) the Proposed Purchaser is an Entity Connected with Gallagher;
(iv) Gallagher and the Proposed Purchaser are Related Entities;
(v) Galagher and the Proposed Purchaser are Related Parties;
5
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission
under section 878 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2070 by Gallagher
Group Limited
11
I


(vi) any Related Party, Related Entity or Entity Connected with Gallagher is
a Related Party, Related Entity or Entity Connected with the Proposed
Purchaser;
(vii) Gallagher and the Proposed Purchaser have a contractual relationship
or had one within the pastthree years, other than those attached to this
form;
viii) the Proposed Purchaser is a supplier of Gallagher or has been in the
pastthree years;
(ix) Gallagheris a supplier of the Proposed Purchaser or has been in the
pastthree years; and
(x) any other relationship between Gallagher and the Proposed Purchaser
that allows one to affectthe business decisions of the other.
3) Please also attach to this form
(a) the finalised draft of the sale and purchase agreement for approval by the
ACCC in accordance with this Undertaking.
(b) any documents required to support the information provided by Gallagher
pursuantto this form.
6
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission
under section 87B of the Competition and Consumer Act2070 by Gallagher
Group Limited


Schedule 3 - Proposed Divestiture Agent Notice
This form sets outthe information required by the ACCC in relation to proposed
appointment of the Divestiture Agent under the Undertaking:
Please note in relation to information given on in relation to this form, giving false or
misleading information is a serious offence.
Method of Delivery to the ACCC
The completed form, along with the additional requested information is to be provided to
the ACCC with the subjectline (proposed Divestiture Agent Form- Gallagher
Undertaking to the below email addresses:
I)
mer ers accc. ov. au
2) With a copysentto:
Attention: Executive General Manager
Mergers and Adjudication Group
Attention: Director
Undertaking Compliance Unit
Coordination and Strategy Branch
Mergers and Adjudication Group
Information Required
I) The ACCC requires the following information in order to assess a proposed
Divestiture Agent:
(a) the name of the Proposed Divestiture Agent; and
(b) the name of the proposed Divestiture Agent's employer and contact details
including:
mer ersucu accc. ovau
.
2) A submission containing the following information:
(a) details of the Proposed Divestiture Agent's qualifications and experience
relevant to his or her proposed role pursuant to the Undertaking.
Address;
.
Contact name;
.
Telephone number;
.
Other contact details.
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission
under section 87B of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 by Gallagher
Group Limited
7
I


(b) the names of the ownerIs and the directors (as applicable) of the Proposed
Divestiture Agent's employer.
(c) details of any of the following types of relationships between Gallagher and
the Proposed Divestiture Agent or the Proposed Divestiture Agent's
employer or confirmation that no such relationship exists whether within
Australia or outside of Australia:
co Gallagher and the Proposed Divestiture Agent's employer are
Associated Entities.
(ii) Gallagheris an Entity Connected with the Proposed Divestiture
Agent's employer
(iii) The Proposed Divestiture Agent's employer is an Entity Connected
with Gallagher
(iv) Gallagher and the Proposed Divestiture Agent's employer are
Related Entities,
(v) Gallagher and the Proposed Divestiture Agent's employer are
Related Parties
(vi) any Related Party, Related Entity or Entity Connected with Gallagher
is a Related Party, Related Entity or Entity Connected with the
Proposed Divestiture Agent.
(vii) Gallagher and the Proposed Divestiture Agent or the Proposed
Divestiture Agent's employer have a contractual relationship or had
one within the pastthree years, other than those attached to this
form.
(viii) the Proposed Divestiture Agent's employer is a supplier of Gallagher
or has been in the pastthree years,
(ix) Gallagheris a supplier of the Proposed Divestiture Agent's employer
or has been in the pastthree years,
(x) any other relationship between Gallagher and the Proposed
Divestiture Agent or the Proposed Divestiture Agent's employer that
allows one to affectthe business decisions of the other
3) A document outlining the terms of appointment of the Proposed Divestiture Agent.
Specific Information required for Appointments of Proposed Divestiture Agent
The AGCC requires the below information in relation to the relevant appointment of the
Proposed Divestiture Agent:
I) The finalised draft share sale agreement drafted by the Proposed Divestiture Agent
in consultation with Gallagher. The draft share sale agreement is to provide forthe
divestiture of the Unsold Shares; and
2) The Proposed Divestiture Agent's draft marketing and sale plan forthe Unsold
Shares,
8
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission
under section 878 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 by Gallagher
Group Limited
I


Confidential Schedule 4
9
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission
under section 87B of the Compelitibn and Consumer Act 2070 by Gallagher
Group Limited
