Page 1 of 12 
 
Public Competition Assessment 
14 July 2014 
Gallagher Group – proposed acquisition of Country 
Electronics Pty Ltd (trading as Thunderbird) 
Introduction 
1. On 19 December 2013, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission 
(ACCC) announced its decision not to oppose the proposed acquisition of Country 
Electronics Pty Ltd by Gallagher Group (proposed acquisition), subject to section 
87B undertakings accepted by the ACCC on 19 December 2013. The ACCC 
decided that the proposed acquisition, in conjunction with the undertakings, would 
be unlikely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in either the 
national market for the wholesale supply of animal management electric fence 
energisers or the national market for the wholesale supply of animal management 
weigh scales in Australia in contravention of section 50 of the Competition and 
Consumer Act 2010 (the Act). 
2. The ACCC made its decision on the basis of the information provided by the 
merger parties and information arising from its market inquiries. This Public 
Competition Assessment outlines the basis on which the ACCC has reached its 
decision on the proposed acquisition, subject to confidentiality considerations. 
Public Competition Assessment 
3. To provide an enhanced level of transparency and procedural fairness in its 
decision making process, the ACCC issues a Public Competition Assessment for 
all transaction proposals where: 
 
a merger is opposed; 
 
a merger is subject to enforceable undertakings; 
 
the merger parties seek such disclosure; or 
 
a merger is not opposed but raises important issues that the ACCC 
considers should be made public. 
4. This Public Competition Assessment has been issued because Gallagher Group’s 
proposed acquisition of Country Electronics Pty Ltd is subject to a court 
enforceable undertaking. 


 
Page 2 of 12 
5. By issuing Public Competition Assessments, the ACCC aims to provide the public 
with a better understanding of the ACCC's analysis of various markets and the 
associated merger and competition issues. It also alerts the public to 
circumstances where the ACCC’s assessment of the competition conditions in 
particular markets is changing, or likely to change. 
6. Each Public Competition Assessment is specific to the particular transaction under 
review by the ACCC. While some transaction proposals may involve the same or 
related markets, it should not be assumed that the analysis and decision outlined 
in one Public Competition Assessment will be conclusive of the ACCC’s view in 
respect of other transaction proposals, as each matter will be considered on its 
own merits. 
7. Public Competition Assessments outline the ACCC’s principal reasons for forming 
views on a proposed acquisition at the time the decision was made. As such Public 
Competition Assessments may not definitively identify and explain all issues that 
the ACCC considers arise from a proposed acquisition. Further, the ACCC’s 
decisions generally involve consideration of both non-confidential and confidential 
information provided by the merger parties and market participants. In order to 
maintain the confidentiality of particular information, Public Competition 
Assessments do not contain any confidential information or its sources. 
The parties 
The acquirer: Gallagher Group 
8. The Gallagher Group is a privately owned New Zealand company which designs, 
manufactures, and markets a range of animal management, security and fuel 
systems products in New Zealand. These products are exported to various 
countries including Australia. 
9. Gallagher Australia operates as a sales and distribution company for the Gallagher 
Group’s animal management products in Australia. Gallagher’s animal 
management products are manufactured by the Gallagher Group in New Zealand, 
and include electric fencing energisers and accessories, weigh scales, electronic 
identification readers, electric cattle prodders, animal handling equipment and farm 
gate fittings.  
10. For the purposes of this Public Competition Assessment, the acquirer will be 
referred to as “Gallagher”. 
The target: Country Electronics Pty Ltd 
11. Country Electronics is a privately owned manufacturer and supplier of electric 
fencing energisers and accessories, weigh scales, and other animal management 
products in Australia.  
12. Country Electronics commenced operations in 1983 and sells its products under 
the trading name of Thunderbird. 
13. Country Electronics’ headquarters and manufacturing premises are located in 
Mudgee, New South Wales. It has three warehouses, located in New South Wales, 
Queensland and Victoria.  


 
Page 3 of 12 
14. For the purposes of this Public Competition Assessment, the target, Country 
Electronics, will be referred to as “Thunderbird”. 
Other industry participants 
Tru-Test 
15. Tru-Test Corporation Limited (Tru-Test) is a New Zealand based manufacturer of 
electric fence, weigh scale and animal management products. It exports these 
products to a number of continents including Australia, North America and Europe, 
and is a major supplier of these products in New Zealand. 
16. In Australia, Tru-Test supplies a number of premium electric fence products under 
its three premium brands, which are Stafix, Speedrite and PEL. Tru-Test has also 
recently commenced supplying electric fence energisers in Australia under its 
budget brand, Patriot. Tru-Test also supplies weigh scale indicators and 
accessories.  
17. At the time of the ACCC’s decision, the Gallagher Group owned 11.86 per cent of 
the issued shares in Tru-Test. 
Daken 
18. Daken is an Australian company which supplies a range of agricultural products in 
Australia including electric fence energisers and associated products. It also 
manufactures and supplies tractor implements and hay making equipment. Daken 
is a wholly owned subsidiary of Clark Equipment Pty Ltd, a privately owned 
Australian company.  
Pakton 
19. Pakton is an Australian Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) of electronics for 
electric fence products for animal management and security. Pakton supplies 
these products to other third party wholesale suppliers in Australia including Daken 
and JVA, as well as to overseas wholesalers. 
JVA  
20. JVA is an Australian supplier of electric fencing products. Its electric fence 
energiser products are manufactured by Pakton and distributed by a small number 
of rural resellers located in Queensland and Western Australia, as well as online.1 
Rural resellers 
21. Most electric fencing products and animal weigh scale products are sold to end 
users through rural and agricultural retail stores (rural resellers). Market inquiries 
suggest that this is because most end-users seek advice about the features of the 
products before making a purchase.  
22. Most rural resellers in Australia are part of, or members of, a larger corporate or 
cooperative entity, franchise or buying group. Examples of rural reseller brands in 
                                                 
1 http://www.jva-fence.com.au/contact.php  


 
Page 4 of 12 
Australia include Landmark, Elders, Ruralco/CRT and Australian Independent 
Rural Retailers (AIRR). There are also some resellers who offer an online store 
where end-users can purchase products directly, however, the ACCC understands 
that sales volumes through this distribution method are currently small. 
23. Market inquiries indicated that the reseller channel is integral for the successful 
distribution of these products. The manufacturers compete to have their products 
stocked by the resellers by offering volume-based rebates on wholesale product 
purchases along with non-price offers, such as support with merchandising and 
after-sales service and advice.  
The proposed transaction 
24. Gallagher proposed to acquire the assets, including the manufacturing plant, 
equipment and inventory, of Thunderbird.  
Areas of overlap 
25. The ACCC considers that the following areas of overlap exist between the parties 
to the proposed acquisition: 
i. 
Electric fence products, namely electric fence energisers and accessories, 
which together control livestock by delivering an electric pulse through 
insulated fence wires. Electric fencing has the following basic components: 
 
A wire or filament that carries an electric charge along the fence-line.  
 
An energiser, which can be powered by either solar, battery or mains (or 
sometimes more than one of these options), pushes power through the 
fence in a series of pulses.  
 
A ground system, usually a series of metal rods sunk into the ground and 
connected to the energiser via a ground wire, waits dormant until the 
fence is touched by an animal that is also in contact with the ground. The 
ground system attracts the charge through the animal which completes 
the circuit and returns the current to the energiser.  
 
Other parts, including posts, tape, insulators, reels and accessories. 
ii. 
Animal weigh scale systems, which comprise an electronic weigh indicator 
which powers and interprets the weigh signal from load bars, and displays and 
stores the weight of an animal.  
26. For the purposes of this Public Competition Assessment, animal management 
electric fencing products will be referred to as ‘energisers’, as these are the critical 
component of the electric fencing products sold by the merger parties and are 
commonly purchased separately from other types of electric fencing products. 
Animal weigh scale systems will be referred to as ‘animal weigh scales’.  


 
Page 5 of 12 
Review timeline 
27. The following table outlines the timeline of key events in this matter. 
Date 
Event 
25-Oct-2012 
 
 
15-Nov-2012 
 
13-Dec-2012 
 
 
 
20-Dec-2012 
 
 
31-Jan-2013 
 
 
 
15-Feb-2013 
 
04-Mar-2013 
 
 
11-Mar-2013 
 
 
21-Mar-2013 
 
 
27-Mar-2013 
 
 
13-Dec-2013 
 
19-Dec-2013 
 
ACCC commenced review under the Merger Review Process 
Guidelines. 
 
Closing date for submissions from interested parties. 
 
ACCC requested further information from the merger parties. ACCC 
timeline suspended. Former proposed decision date of 20 December 
2012 delayed pending receipt of information from the parties. 
 
ACCC received further information from the merger parties. ACCC 
timeline recommenced. 
 
ACCC published a Statement of Issues outlining preliminary 
competition concerns. 
 
 
Closing date for submissions relating to Statement of Issues. 
 
Former proposed decision date of 15 March 2013 delayed to allow 
provision of information requested from Gallagher. 
 
ACCC received further information from Gallagher. ACCC timeline 
recommenced. 
 
Former proposed decision date of 21 March 2013 delayed to allow 
Gallagher to make further submissions. 
 
Timeline suspended at Gallagher's request to allow it to make 
further submissions. 
 
ACCC received further information from Gallagher. 
 
ACCC announced it would not oppose the proposed acquisition, 
subject to a section 87B undertaking accepted by ACCC. 
 
Market inquiries 
28. The ACCC conducted extensive market inquiries in relation to the proposed 
acquisition with a range of industry participants, including competitors, potential 
competitors, customers (the major rural reseller chains, rural buying groups, 
independent rural resellers and online retailers), agricultural industry bodies and 
other interested parties.  
Statement of Issues 
29. The ACCC published its Statement of Issues on 31 January 2013 identifying a 
number of competition issues. The ACCC stated its preliminary view that the 
proposed acquisition would be likely to raise competition concerns in the supply of 


 
Page 6 of 12 
energisers in Australia, and that the proposed acquisition may raise competition 
concerns in the supply of animal weigh systems in Australia.   
30. In the Statement of Issues, the ACCC expressed preliminary concerns that the 
proposed acquisition would be likely to give rise to one or both of the following 
theories of harm to competition, particularly relating to the supply of energisers.  
 
Unilateral effects – post-acquisition the merged firm would have an increased 
ability and incentive to unilaterally raise prices and reduce the quality of its 
service offering. Gallagher could internalise substitution between its products 
and Thunderbird’s products, and through its shareholding in Tru-Test, receive a 
share of profits from sales won by Tru-Test from the merged Gallagher-
Thunderbird.  
 
Coordinated effects - post-acquisition, the highly concentrated market 
structure, together with the common ownership between Gallagher and Tru-
Test, would increase the likelihood of coordination between Gallagher and Tru-
Test with respect to their product, price and service offerings. In particular, the 
ACCC was concerned that the likely effect of the proposed acquisition would 
be an increase in prices for the various products supplied by Gallagher and 
Tru-Test.  
31. The Statement of Issues is available on the ACCC website (www.accc.gov.au) at 
the mergers register. 
Future with and without the proposed acquisition 
32. Section 50 of the Act prohibits mergers or acquisitions that would have the effect or 
be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. In 
assessing a proposed acquisition pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC 
considers the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future competitive 
environment post-acquisition if the acquisition proceeds (the “with” position), to the 
likely future competitive environment if the acquisition does not proceed (the 
“without” position), to determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in any relevant market. 
33. In the absence of the proposed acquisition, the ACCC considered that the likely 
future competitive environment would be the status quo, that is, Thunderbird would 
continue to operate as an independent competitor in the wholesale supply of 
energisers and animal weigh scales in Australia.  
Market definition 
34. The ACCC considered that the following two markets were most relevant to the 
assessment of the competitive impact of the proposed acquisition: 
 the national market for the wholesale supply of energisers; and 
 the national market for the wholesale supply of animal weigh scales.  


 
Page 7 of 12 
Product dimension 
Energisers 
35. Electric fences are typically used on rural properties in order to contain and 
manage livestock. The two main types of fencing on farms are electric fencing and 
conventional permanent wire fencing (conventional fencing), or a combination of 
both.   
36. The ACCC considered that there was unlikely to be a sufficient level of 
substitutability between conventional fencing and electric fencing to constitute a 
single market for the purposes of this merger review. In reaching this view, the 
ACCC took into account the following information from market inquiries: 
 While conventional fencing requires less maintenance and lower ongoing costs 
than electric fencing, setting up conventional fencing costs significantly more 
than electric fencing because it requires more wire and posts to make fences 
durable.  
 In contrast to conventional fencing, electric fencing is easier and quicker to 
construct and more versatile in use and effective for containing most types of 
farm animals. For instance, an electric fence can be moved around a farm 
according to a farmer’s preferences for containing animals, such as to have 
them graze in a particular paddock at a given time.  
37. Market inquiries also revealed a degree of product differentiation between the 
energisers supplied by the merger parties and their competitors. Market 
participants informed the ACCC that the energiser market is segmented into two 
groups – the premium brands are Gallagher, and Tru-Test’s Stafix, Speedrite and 
PEL brands. The budget brands are Thunderbird, Daken and Patriot. Patriot is the 
budget brand supplied by Tru-Test. Market inquiries indicated that the budget 
brands are particularly suited to the needs of the growing hobby/lifestyle farm 
customer segment.  
38. The ACCC considered that for the vast majority of energiser products the 
functionality of premium and budget energisers was substantially similar. 
Information provided to the ACCC also indicated a significant degree of 
substitution between the budget and premium brands by end-users. Therefore, the 
ACCC considered that the supply of energisers comprises a single product market, 
which includes premium and budget brands of energisers.  
Animal weigh scales 
39. Animal weigh scales are used by farmers, stockyards, abattoirs and other 
agricultural businesses to measure, record and analyse an animal’s weight.  
40. While all animal weigh scales perform the same principal function of weighing 
animals, the levels of ancillary functionality vary significantly between various 
models of weigh scales in the market. Basic models have the sole functionality of 
weighing animals, while sophisticated animal weighing systems which have 
integrated software that can store and analyse a range of statistical data about 
livestock.  


 
Page 8 of 12 
41. In the Statement of Issues, the ACCC noted that it considered that industrial and 
animal weigh scales were functionally similar and invited comments from market 
participants regarding whether industrial weigh scales were substitutable for animal 
weigh scales. Market inquires with industrial weigh scale manufacturers in the 
period following the Statement of Issues indicated that industrial weigh scale 
manufacturers were able to manufacture and supply basic animal weigh scales at 
a competitive price, however, they were not able to manufacture high-end animal 
weigh scales that have electronic identification capabilities (similar to some of the 
products of the merger parties) without significant time, investment, and research 
and development.  
42. On the basis of its market inquiries, the ACCC formed the view that supply-side 
substitution from industrial weigh scale manufacturers is only likely for basic animal 
weigh scales, and therefore considered it appropriate to analyse the likely effect of 
the proposed acquisition in a market for animal weigh scales only. However, in its 
competition analysis, the ACCC took the constraint on the merged entity from 
industrial weigh scale manufacturers in relation to basic animal weigh scales into 
consideration. 
Geographic dimension 
43. The ACCC considered that the appropriate geographic dimension of both the 
market for the wholesale supply of energisers and of the market for the wholesale 
supply of animal weigh scales is national, because energisers and animal weigh 
scales are durable products which can be and are efficiently transported over long 
distances. During its review, the ACCC found that the energisers and animal weigh 
scales of all suppliers in the market are distributed throughout Australia. In 
addition, the ACCC understands that the vast majority of energisers and animal 
weigh scales supplied in Australia are manufactured at offshore manufacturing 
plants in accordance with regulatory requirements such that they can be sold in 
Australia.  
Competition analysis 
Energisers 
Wholesale supply of energisers – supply channel  
44. The ACCC’s market inquiries indicated that the rural resellers provide an important 
avenue for suppliers of energisers to reach a large number of end-users.  
45. The matters taken into account by rural resellers when negotiating the wholesale 
supply of energisers were an important factor in the ACCC’s competition analysis, 
as explained below. 
46. The wholesale suppliers of energisers utilise the rural reseller channel in different 
ways. Some supply energisers directly to independent rural retail stores. Other 
suppliers market and distribute their energisers more centrally through the 
corporate/cooperative entities to which independent rural resellers belong, or 
through buying groups. Market inquiries indicated that where corporate/cooperative 
entities or buying groups choose to support a given energiser brand, this tends to 
enhance the energiser supplier’s promotional activity and provides for wider 
distribution of its energisers through the reseller’s network of stores.  


 
Page 9 of 12 
47. As noted above, electric fence energisers are manufactured and supplied in a 
range of technical specifications. Market inquiries indicated that the rural resellers 
typically seek to stock products supplied by more than one supplier and negotiate 
with a number of independent suppliers to purchase products which allow the 
resellers to offer a mix of basic and premium energisers. The resellers and 
wholesale suppliers negotiate on the basis of product range, wholesale prices and 
rebates.  
Competition among existing suppliers 
48. The ACCC found that the proposed acquisition would increase concentration in the 
market for the wholesale supply of energisers, which was already concentrated.2 
Gallagher and Tru-Test already held the vast majority of market share based on 
sales of energisers. Thunderbird was the next largest competitor in terms of market 
share, followed by smaller suppliers Daken and JVA, who, at the time of the 
ACCC’s investigation, had a combined share of less than 5 per cent of the market.  
49. Gallagher and Tru-Test are the two most significant suppliers of energisers in 
Australia. Market participants stated that the Gallagher and Tru-Test brands are 
highly regarded by market participants for their reliable energisers and after-sales 
service. Market inquiries indicated that Gallagher and Tru-Test are the closest 
competitors of each other.  
50. Market inquiries indicated Thunderbird to be a successful competitor in the market, 
having won market share from Gallagher and Tru-Test and developed products 
across a range of specifications. While Daken’s market share was considerably 
smaller than Thunderbird’s, its brand was recognised, particularly as it supplies a 
range of other products in the agricultural retail sector. The ACCC found that 
Daken’s energiser products were stocked by a number of rural resellers.  
51. As noted above, rural resellers typically seek to offer their customers a range of 
energisers comprising a mix of basic and premium products. In this regard, market 
inquiries indicated that Gallagher and Tru-Test’s brands were highly recognisable 
and at least one of these was likely to be selected by resellers to form the premium 
part of their product range offering. Meanwhile, Thunderbird’s products were often 
adopted by resellers to fulfil their preferences to offer a lower-priced ‘budget’ 
energiser to their customers. That said, market inquiries revealed that all existing 
suppliers manufacture and supply ‘budget’ energisers and that Gallagher’s 
premium products competed with all of these. 
52. While other wholesale suppliers in the market, such as Daken and JVA, had a 
small market share in aggregate, market inquiries indicated that these suppliers’ 
products were viable alternatives for rural resellers and end-users. In this regard, 
the ACCC found that these and other manufacturers of energiser products do not 
face capacity constraints on their ability to expand their wholesale output. Market 
inquiries also indicated that there was scope for resellers to substitute Thunderbird 
with another supplier of budget energisers if post-acquisition, Gallagher sought to 
raise wholesale prices or reduce rebates offered to resellers, or reduce product 
development and service offerings. In addition, market inquiries revealed that the 
market share of any supplier can change considerably based on a reseller’s 
selection of suppliers of a mix of premium and budget energisers. 
                                                 
2 The ACCC was unable to obtain publicly available sources of information regarding market 
shares to include in this Public Competition Assessment. 


 
Page 10 of 12 
Likelihood of competitive constraint from new entrants  
53. The ACCC assessed the likelihood of new entry in the market for the wholesale 
supply of energisers and whether any such entry would act as a sufficient 
constraint to alleviate the ACCC’s competition concerns in relation to the proposed 
acquisition.  
54. The ACCC’s market inquiries indicated that barriers to the expansion of 
manufacturing output for energisers were unlikely to be substantial due to the 
availability of third party electronic manufacturers (such as Pakton). However, 
market inquiries indicated that rural resellers had limited shelf space for selling 
energisers. For this reason, the resellers typically negotiate with a small number of 
suppliers of energisers whose brands are recognised by customers. These factors 
appeared to have the potential to limit the opportunities for new suppliers to enter 
the market, or for small existing suppliers to expand their presence on a large 
scale, unless a reseller altered its mix of suppliers as noted in paragraph 52. 
Imports 
55. Gallagher and Tru-Test import their products from New Zealand. Market inquiries 
showed that Gallagher and Tru-Test have been successful in Australia because 
they have both established domestic distribution networks, brand recognition and 
representatives based in Australia to provide after-sales support, advice and 
training to rural resellers and end users.  
56. Other than the products imported by Gallagher and Tru-Test, energisers are not 
currently imported in significant volumes, either directly by end users or by rural 
resellers. Market participants indicated that prices would have to increase 
substantially before independent imports of energisers would be considered to be 
viable substitutes for the energisers supplied by the merger parties’ and Tru-Test. 
As such, the ACCC did not consider that independent imports would be likely to 
provide an effective constraint on the merged firm.  
Conclusions 
57. After taking the above factors into account, the ACCC was concerned that post-
acquisition, Gallagher would own a full and partial shareholding in its two closest 
competitors for the wholesale supply of energisers – Thunderbird and Tru-Test. 
The ACCC considered that while there was potential for resellers to support the 
growth of other existing suppliers such as Daken, their ability to leverage 
competition between suppliers was limited in circumstances where three of these 
were not competing independently of each other.  
58. The ACCC was concerned that in these circumstances, Gallagher would have an 
increased ability and incentive to unilateralIy raise prices, reduce product 
development and decrease the quality of its service offerings. 
59. The ACCC was also concerned that the removal of an independent competitor 
from the market (Thunderbird), together with Gallagher’s shareholding in Tru-Test, 
would increase the likelihood of coordination between Gallagher and Tru-Test with 
respect to their product, price and service offerings in the market. 


 
Page 11 of 12 
Animal Weigh Scales 
60. Market inquiries indicated that Gallagher and Tru-Test are the key suppliers of 
animal weigh scales in Australia. Thunderbird had a small presence in this market 
and the ACCC found that this was unlikely to increase in the foreseeable future. 
There are no other suppliers of animal weigh scales in Australia.  
61. As described in paragraph 40, animal weigh scales range from basic models which 
have the sole functionality of weighing animals, to sophisticated animal 
management systems, where weighing is one of a number of functions provided by 
the equipment. Sophisticated animal weighing systems are compatible with a 
larger category of products such as electronic identification readers (EID) and 
animal handling products. While these products can be purchased and used 
separately, collectively they add value for the end user for electronically tagged 
cattle.3  
62. The ACCC found that while Thunderbird was capable of supplying a complete 
animal weighing system, including weigh scales with EID-compatible indicators, 
EID and animal handling products, these were significantly less advanced than 
those which were supplied by Gallagher and Tru-Test and that demand for 
premium weighing systems from end-users was increasing significantly.  
63. The ACCC also considered that industrial weigh scales manufacturers were likely 
to competitively constrain the merged firm and Tru-Test in relation to the basic 
range of weigh scales.  
64. On the basis of the above, the ACCC considered that Thunderbird did not appear 
likely to exert a strong competitive constraint in the market at the time of the 
proposed acquisition and would be unlikely to do so in the foreseeable future. 
Therefore, the ACCC concluded that the proposed acquisition would not be likely 
to substantially lessen competition in the market for the supply of animal weigh 
scales. 
Undertakings 
65. As noted in paragraph 17, Gallagher owned 11.86 per cent of shares in Tru-Test. 
Like Gallagher, Tru-Test is a wholesale supplier of energisers and animal weigh 
scales in Australia. The ACCC’s merger review found that Tru-Test was 
Gallagher’s closest competitor in both the relevant markets. The ACCC considered 
that the merged entity’s 11.86 per cent interest in Tru-Test, together with the 
proposed acquisition, would significantly weaken the degree of competitive 
constraint on Gallagher post acquisition. The ACCC was particularly concerned 
that this shareholding may allow the merged entity to unilaterally raise prices in the 
relevant markets since the merged entity would be able to recoup part of any lost 
profit from any customer lost to Tru-Test through the earnings the merged entity 
would receive as a shareholder.  
                                                 
3 The ACCC understands that electronic tagging of cattle became mandatory in Australia in 
1999 as part of the National Livestock Identification System (NLIS). The NLIS is livestock 
identification and tracking system which uses devices to identify and track livestock and keeps 
a central electronic database of an animal’s residency and animals it has interacted with for the 
purpose of improving food safety and access to export markets, and assists with disease 
management. 


 
Page 12 of 12 
66. The ACCC was also concerned that the proposed acquisition, absent the 
undertaking, may result in the merged entity having the ability to influence or gain 
insight into the operations of Tru-Test, such as by using the shareholding to obtain 
board representation. Given the importance of the constraint from competitors, 
particularly Tru-Test, to the ACCC’s competition assessment, such a shareholding 
raised concerns. 
67. The ACCC was also concerned that the proposed acquisition may increase 
likelihood of coordination between Tru-Test and Gallagher with respect to their 
product, price and service offerings in the market. In relation to this theory of harm, 
a key factor considered by the ACCC was that the common ownership between 
the two companies may align their interests and remove their incentives to 
compete vigorously with each other, in the absence of strong competition from 
other competitors in the market, including Thunderbird.  
68. In response to these concerns, Gallagher offered and the ACCC accepted a court 
enforceable undertaking pursuant to section 87B of the Act (the Undertaking). The 
Undertaking requires Gallagher to: 
i. 
divest the 11.86 per cent interest in Tru-Test (either to Tru-Test or otherwise to 
another purchaser approved by the ACCC) within a defined timeframe; 
ii. 
maintain the independence of Tru-Test and Gallagher while Gallagher remains 
a shareholder by ensuring that Gallagher does not exercise any influence over 
Tru-Test, and vice versa; and  
iii. 
providing for the effective oversight of Gallagher’s compliance with this 
undertaking. 
69. The ACCC considered that if the s87B undertaking were accepted, Gallagher 
would no longer hold an ownership interest in one of its key competitors, and 
resellers would have the ability to negotiate wholesale purchases of energisers 
with at least as many independent suppliers as before the acquisition.  
70. Therefore, taking into account the factors outlined above in the section titled 
Competition Analysis, the ACCC considered that with the undertaking, competition 
in the energiser market in the future would not be substantially lessened compared 
to competition in the future without the proposed acquisition. 
71. Accordingly, the ACCC accepted the Undertaking and approved Tru-Test as the 
proposed purchaser of Gallagher’s 11.86 per cent shareholding. The ACCC 
granted this approval on the basis that the transfer would meet the objectives of 
the Undertaking and not raise any competition concerns. 
Conclusion 
72. On the basis of the above, including taking into account the proposed 
undertakings, the ACCC formed the view that the proposed acquisition of 
Thunderbird by Gallagher Group would not be likely to result in a substantial 
lessening of competition in either the national market for the wholesale supply of 
energisers or the national market for the wholesale supply of animal weigh scales 
in contravention of section 50 of the Act. 
