 
Page 1 of 16 
 
Statement of Issues 
13 October 2016 
 Link Administration Holdings Limited – possible 
acquisition of Pillar 
Purpose 
1. 
Link Administration Holdings Limited (Link) is potentially acquiring the 
Superannuation Administration Corporation (trading as Pillar) (Pillar), which is 
currently owned by the New South Wales Government (the possible 
acquisition). Link and Pillar both provide superannuation administration 
services (SAS).  
2. 
This Statement of Issues: 
 
gives the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission’s (ACCC’s) 
preliminary views on competition issues arising from the possible 
acquisition 
 
identifies areas of further inquiry 
 
gives all interested parties an opportunity to comment 
 
invites interested parties to submit information to assist us in our 
assessment of the issues. 
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views 
3. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering acquisitions is in section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the Act). Section 50 prohibits 
acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of 
substantially lessening competition in any market. 
4. 
The ACCC divides its preliminary views into three categories, 'issues of concern', 
'issues that may raise concerns' and ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’. For this 
acquisition there is one ‘issue of concern’ and one ‘issue that is unlikely to raise 
concerns’. 


Link – possible acquisition of Pillar 
 
Page 2 of 16 
Issue of concern 
 
The possible acquisition will result in the removal of a SAS provider. In 
particular, it will remove the only SAS provider with the demonstrated 
capacity to supply SAS to larger superannuation funds (funds) in 
competition with Link. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the possible 
acquisition is likely to substantially lessen competition in a national 
market for the supply of SAS. 
Issue that is unlikely to raise concerns 
 
The possible acquisition is unlikely to have the effect of substantially 
lessening competition in related product markets, specifically those 
related to the IT platforms and software used in the provision of SAS. 
Making a submission 
5. 
The ACCC is seeking submissions from interested parties, particularly on the 
following key issues: 
 
the impact of the possible acquisition on competition for the supply of 
SAS 
 
the extent to which an alternative acquirer of Pillar could establish itself 
as an effective competitor to Link 
 
the extent of competitive constraint from:  
a. funds that currently outsource their SAS switching to insourcing 
b. funds that currently self-administer, supplying (or starting to 
supply) SAS to other funds.  
 
the likelihood that an alternative supplier would be able to commence 
supply of SAS in a sufficiently timely manner and on a sufficient scale to 
constrain Link following the possible acquisition, taking into account any 
barriers to commencing supply and expanding 
 
the likelihood that the increased market concentration would reduce 
competition in related product markets, including for IT platforms and 
software.  
6. 
Detailed discussion of these and other issues, along with specific questions, is 
contained in this Statement of Issues.  
7. 
Interested parties should provide submissions by no later than 5pm on 
28 October 2016. Responses may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the 
title: Submission re: Link - attention Fiona Sam/Karina Geddes. If you would like 
to discuss the matter with ACCC officers over the telephone or in person, or 
have any questions about this Statement of Issues, please contact Fiona Sam 
on (03) 9658 6450 or Karina Geddes on (03) 9658 6442.  
8. 
The ACCC anticipates making a final decision on 15 December 2016, however 
this timeline can change. To keep abreast of possible changes in relation to 


Link – possible acquisition of Pillar 
 
Page 3 of 16 
timing and to find relevant documents, interested parties should visit the Mergers 
Register on the ACCC's website at www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
Confidentiality of submissions 
9. 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the possible acquisition. We 
will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) 
unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation 
or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the Act. Where 
the ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, the ACCC will notify 
you in advance where possible so that you may have an opportunity to be heard. 
Therefore, if the information provided to the ACCC is of a confidential nature, 
please indicate as such. Our Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines 
contain more information on confidentiality. 
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’ 
10. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about an 
acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing attention to 
particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well as identifying 
the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
11. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the parties to the transaction and other interested parties with the basis for 
making further submissions should they consider it necessary. 
Timeline 
Date 
Event 
17 August 2016 
ACCC commenced review of the possible acquisition 
13 October 2016 
ACCC publication of Statement of Issues 
28 October 2016 
Deadline for submissions from interested parties in 
response to this Statement of Issues 
15 December 2016 
Anticipated date for ACCC final decision  
 
The parties 
12. 
Link is an ASX-listed company with operations in superannuation administration, 
shareholder management and analytics, and share registry. Link provides SAS 
through its businesses, Link Super and Australian Administration Services 
(AAS), using its own proprietary platform, the aaspire platform. According to 
Link, it is the largest provider of SAS in Australia, administering approximately 
10 million superannuation member accounts. 
13. 
Pillar is a state-owned corporation that provides SAS mainly to Government 
funds, pension funds and defined benefit schemes, but does have experience 
providing SAS to non-Government funds. Pillar administers more than 1.1 million 


Link – possible acquisition of Pillar 
 
Page 4 of 16 
superannuation member accounts with assets totalling more than $100 billion. Its 
clients include: 
 
First State Super 
 
State Super 
 
Public Sector Superannuation accumulation plan (PSSap) 
 
Aon. 
14. 
Pillar does not have its own proprietary IT administration platform and is 
currently licensed to use Financial Synergy’s (Acurity) platform. 
Industry background  
15. 
Superannuation funds require a range of administration services to operate on a 
day-to-day basis. These services can be performed in-house by the fund itself, 
by a third party such as Link or Pillar, or by adopting a hybrid model whereby the 
fund is partly administered in-house and partly by a third party. 
16. 
Superannuation administration services include: 
 
management and distribution of benefit payments to members 
 
data and document management 
 
member communication – production and issuing of member and 
employer statements 
 
management of employer contributions and processing of contributions 
into funds 
 
administering member investment choice 
 
customer contact services 
 
insurance and claims management 
 
online member and employer services  
 
financial and accounting services  
 
risk and compliance framework.  
 
17. 
Customers of these services are typically trustees of funds, including public 
sector, industry, retail and corporate funds. 
18. 
There has been increasing consolidation of SAS providers which has resulted 
from market exit and Link acquiring other SAS providers. Citistreet and IBM for 
example have exited the industry. Link has made a number of acquisitions, 
including: 
 
Australian Administration Services (AAS) in September 2006 


Link – possible acquisition of Pillar 
 
Page 5 of 16 
 
Primary Superannuation Services Pty Limited (PSS) in 2008 
 
Australian Superannuation Group (TASG) in 2008 
 
PSI Superannuation Management in June 2012 
 
FuturePlus Financial Services Pty Ltd in December 2012 
 
administration assets of Russell Investments in February 2013 
 
Superpartners Pty Ltd1 in August 2014, which more than doubled Link’s 
member accounts. 
19. 
The ACCC has estimated that Link administers approximately 80 per cent of 
outsourced member accounts.2  
Future with and without the acquisition 
20. 
Section 50 of the Act prohibits mergers or acquisitions that would have the effect 
or be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
In assessing a proposed acquisition pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC 
considers the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future competitive 
environment post-acquisition if the acquisition proceeds (the “with” position) to 
the likely future competitive environment if the acquisition does not proceed (the 
“without” position) to determine whether a proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in any relevant market. 
21. 
The NSW Government has announced that it intends to privatise Pillar and the 
NSW Parliament has passed legislation to enable its sale, with a competitive 
sale process having commenced. The ACCC therefore considers that in the 
future without the possible acquisition it is likely that an alternative purchaser 
would acquire Pillar. If Pillar is not sold, the ACCC considers that the current 
competitive environment would likely remain. 
22. 
The ACCC understands that in recent years, Pillar has lost some customer 
accounts and has been implementing a large IT transformation. The NSW 
Government considers that private sector ownership will put Pillar in a stronger 
position to pursue growth opportunities and improve the business’ long-term 
financial viability.3  
23. 
An important issue for the ACCC’s review is the extent to which an alternative 
owner of Pillar, other than Link, will likely be able to improve the position of Pillar 
in the future, and make Pillar an even stronger competitor in the market.  
 
                                                 
 
1  
Superpartners was a SAS provider established by a group of five industry funds. It was acquired by 
Link Group in December 2014. Superpartners’ shareholders were AustralianSuper, Cbus, HESTA, 
HOSTPLUS, and MTAA Super. 
2  
ACCC estimate based on publicly available data. 
3  
Superannuation Administration Corporation (Pillar) (Authorised Transaction) Bill 2016, 3 May 2016, 
Second Reading. 


Link – possible acquisition of Pillar 
 
Page 6 of 16 
The ACCC invites comments on what the competitive environment in the future 
without the possible acquisition would look like relative to an acquisition by Link, in 
particular: 
 
Pillar’s current (pre-privatisation) competitive position in the market 
 
Pillar’s likely competitive position should: 1) Link acquire Pillar; 2) an alternative 
purchaser acquire Pillar; and 3) the NSW Government retains ownership of Pillar  
 
whether an acquirer will need to invest in Pillar to increase its competitiveness and 
if so the type and level of investment that would be required (including cost, time 
and staffing)  
 
the likelihood of that investment being made. 
Market definition 
24. 
The key area of overlap between Link and Pillar is in the supply of SAS. The 
ACCC’s preliminary view is that the markets relevant for assessing the 
competition effects of the possible acquisition are national markets for: 
 
the supply of SAS by a third party (although the ACCC considers that 
there could be narrower markets for components of SAS, for example, 
risk and compliance) 
 
the supply of IT platforms and software used in the provision of SAS. 
25. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that SAS supplied in-house should not be 
included as part of the market for the supply of SAS. Based on market feedback 
to date the ACCC considers that from a customer substitution perspective, it is 
unlikely that funds which currently outsource their SAS could easily switch to 
insourcing, particularly for core components of their SAS such as registry and 
processing services. Further, the ACCC considers that, from a supplier 
perspective, self-administered funds (or the owners of self-administered funds) 
are unlikely to commence supplying SAS to third party funds in a way that would 
significantly constrain Link. These issues are explored further in the competition 
assessment below. The questions under paragraphs 66 and 71 also relate to 
market definition. 
Issue of concern: reduction in competition in the supply of 
SAS  
26. 
Based on its inquiries to date, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the possible 
acquisition is likely to substantially lessen competition by removing Pillar as a 
key competitor to Link in the supply of SAS. This is in circumstances where: 
 
funds are reluctant to acquire SAS from an SAS provider without a 
demonstrated capacity to supply a fund of a similar size and type 
 
Pillar is the only other SAS provider with the demonstrated capacity to 
supply SAS to larger funds 


Link – possible acquisition of Pillar 
 
Page 7 of 16 
 
although Mercer (and possibly other SAS providers) may have the 
capacity to supply SAS to larger funds, to date none has supplied SAS to 
larger funds and so lack a demonstrated track record that they can do so 
 
smaller SAS providers without sufficient scale may face difficulties being 
price competitive with Link, which benefits from a significant scale 
advantage, and may also not have the capacity to serve Link or Pillar’s 
larger customers 
 
there are significant barriers to entry and expansion for supplying SAS, 
and funds that are currently outsourcing SAS have a limited ability and 
incentive to bypass an SAS provider through insourcing SAS. 
27. 
Currently Link is by far the largest SAS provider. The possible acquisition would 
remove one of the few, and from the perspective of some customers, the only 
competitor to Link. This may result in lower service levels or higher prices, which 
will ultimately be passed on to fund members. The possible acquisition would 
also remove the opportunity for someone else to operate Pillar to compete with 
Link.  
SAS providers  
28. 
Market participants have generally identified three major SAS providers – Link, 
Pillar and Mercer.  
29. 
Link is by far the largest SAS provider. As noted above, the ACCC has estimated 
that Link services the vast majority (approximately 80 per cent4) of outsourced 
member accounts and currently benefits from having considerable scale. 
30. 
Pillar has experienced uncertainty about its future ownership for a number of 
years but is perceived by a number of market participants to be an alternative 
and competitor to Link (and could be a greater source of competition to Link if it 
were under different ownership). Pillar is undergoing a significant IT 
transformation.  
31. 
Market feedback has suggested that Mercer is an alternative for some market 
participants. Although Mercer’s total member base is similar to Pillar, market 
participants have noted that Mercer mainly provides SAS to corporate funds and, 
unlike Link and Pillar, does not currently provide SAS to larger funds. Some 
market participants have indicated that Mercer may have the potential to service 
larger funds in future. 
32. 
Smaller SAS providers, including, for example, OneVue, Independent Fund 
Administrators & Advisors, Recreo and Superannuation Benefits Administration 
are not generally considered by market participants to be a viable alternative, 
particularly for larger-sized funds (those with several hundred thousand or more 
members). This is due to their absence of scale (affecting their ability to be cost 
competitive) and a track record of servicing larger funds.  
33. 
The risk of switching to a smaller SAS provider was considered by some market 
participants to be too high and not an option they would consider, particularly 
given the need to satisfy APRA requirements in relation to the use of outsourced 
                                                 
 
4  
ACCC estimate based on publicly available data. 


Link – possible acquisition of Pillar 
 
Page 8 of 16 
services.5 It is unclear whether these smaller SAS providers would have the 
capacity and capability to simultaneously service more than one of the larger 
funds currently administered by Link or Pillar.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the competitive constraint 
imposed by existing alternative SAS providers. In particular, market participants may 
wish to comment in as much detail as possible on the following: 
 
whether there would be any viable alternative SAS providers to Link if the possible 
acquisition proceeded  
 
the extent to which Mercer would competitively constrain Link if the possible 
acquisition proceeded 
 
whether the alternative SAS providers available to a fund vary according to the 
size and type of fund 
 
the extent to which other SAS providers have actively competed with Link and/or 
Pillar for SAS contracts, including components of SAS (see the list of SAS 
components in paragraph 15 above). For example: whether other SAS providers 
have competed in the same tender process and whether other SAS providers’ 
offers have been used to negotiate better terms with Link or Pillar. 
Removal of Pillar as a competitor 
34. 
Based on market enquiries to date the ACCC’s preliminary view is that Pillar is a 
key competitor to Link, and could be an even stronger competitor to Link under 
new ownership.  
35. 
In circumstances where trustees of funds owe fiduciary duties to the fund’s 
members and need to satisfy APRA’s outsourcing standard, it is critical that the 
selected SAS provider will be able to provide SAS without significant disruption. 
Any disruption to the operation of the fund would significantly impact on the 
fund’s members, and ultimately, the reputation of the fund. With First State 
Super as a customer, Pillar has a track record of supplying SAS to a larger fund 
and supplying SAS for defined benefit schemes. Other than Link no other entity 
has the experience in servicing larger funds.  
36. 
The ACCC understands that Pillar has experienced uncertainty about its future 
ownership for a number of years, and this has impacted on market participants’ 
views about its continued viability. It appears that the uncertainty regarding its 
ownership status, has contributed to its poor performance in recent years. 
However, a number of market participants consider Pillar to be a strong 
competitor to Link, and, in some cases, the only viable alternative. Further, 
market participants noted that they would be more likely to consider Pillar as an 
alternative following the completion of Pillar’s IT transformation program. Based 
on market feedback, the ACCC considers that, after privatisation and once its IT 
transformation has been completed, Pillar is likely to be a greater source of 
competition to Link.  
                                                 
 
5  
When a trustee outsources a ‘material business activity’, such as its administration activities, the 
trustee is required to comply with the APRA outsourcing standard, SPS 231, which requires the 
trustee of a superannuation fund to demonstrate to APRA that it has appropriately assessed the 
outsourcing of its administration services. 


Link – possible acquisition of Pillar 
 
Page 9 of 16 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on whether the possible 
acquisition would remove a key source of competition to Link. In particular, market 
participants may wish to comment on the following: 
 
the extent to which Link and Pillar have competed in the past 
 
whether Pillar’s track record of servicing larger funds is an important differentiator 
from other SAS providers 
 
whether Pillar’s status as a state-owned corporation has advantaged and/or 
disadvantaged it in the past 
 
the impact of the uncertainty regarding Pillar’s ownership on its past 
competitiveness, and the extent to which this may change in the future  
 
the impact of Pillar’s IT transformation program on its future competitiveness  
 
whether the possible acquisition by Link would remove a key competitive constraint 
on Link. 
Barriers to entry 
37. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that new entrants and existing smaller SAS 
providers face a number of significant barriers to entry and expansion.  
High upfront and ongoing costs  
38. 
The ACCC understands that there are high upfront and ongoing costs 
associated with providing SAS. The main upfront cost identified is in relation to 
IT systems. The ACCC understands that a SAS provider needs to either have its 
own proprietary IT record keeping platform (such as Link does), or have access 
to one through a third party licensing arrangement (like Pillar does) to be able to 
provide SAS.  
39. 
Market inquiries indicate that considerable capital is required to develop and 
maintain an appropriate platform. These costs are highly likely to be sunk, in that 
they cannot be recovered if the company later exits.  
40. 
It is less capital intensive to licence a platform from a third party provider, but 
there are still considerable ongoing costs with this approach. Even if 
development and maintenance costs are initially borne by a third party platform 
provider, the ACCC understands that they are reflected in license fees. 
41. 
In this context, the ACCC understands that: 
 
Link has invested more than $300 million in in its proprietary platforms 
over the past 10 years6 
 
 
                                                 
 
6  
Link Group FY2016 Results Presentation, 24 August 2016, p. 41.  


Link – possible acquisition of Pillar 
 
Page 10 of 16 
 
the NSW Government has invested nearly $20 million since 2014 into an 
ongoing business transformation process to update Pillar's IT systems.7 
42. 
The ACCC also understands that there are significant ongoing costs of keeping 
the platform up to date and compliant with regulatory requirements and changes. 
Further, even if the SAS provider licenses a platform from a third party these 
costs are generally passed on to the SAS provider or fund. Market participants 
have cited the complex regulatory environment for superannuation as a 
significant deterrent to new entry.  
Customer reluctance to switch and the importance of a track record  
43. 
A strong reputation and a track record in the provision of SAS are critical to 
being able to win contracts. As a consequence it is difficult for a new SAS 
provider to commence operations or for a small provider to expand. 
44. 
In this respect, market inquiries indicate that funds are generally reluctant to 
switch SAS providers. The ACCC understands that SAS providers have a high 
client retention rate, with Link’s client retention rates being over 95 per cent in 
Fund Administration in FY2014 and 2015.8  
45. 
Market participants identified the following issues with switching SAS providers: 
 
there are significant risks and administrative disruption involved in 
transitioning member data onto a new platform so a great deal of 
transition planning is required. It is critical to a trustee that the selected 
SAS provider will be able to provide SAS without significant disruption 
 
transitioning onto a new platform can take up to two years 
 
there are considerable costs associated with switching 
 
a superannuation trustee owes fiduciary duties to its fund’s members and 
needs to be satisfied that switching SAS providers is in its members’ best 
interests. 
46. 
Market inquiries indicate that trustees are very risk averse and the cost of SAS is 
only one of the factors that a trustee takes into account when considering 
options for SAS. When a trustee outsources a ‘material business activity’, such 
as SAS, the trustee is required to comply with APRA outsourcing standard 
SPS 231.9  
47. 
SPS 231 requires the trustee to demonstrate that the fund has made an 
appropriate assessment, including by proving that it has undertaken a due 
diligence review of the service provider, taken into account the changes to the 
risk profile of the business activity that arise from outsourcing the activity, 
established a way for monitoring performance on a continuing basis, and 
                                                 
 
7  
Superannuation Administration Corporation (Pillar) (Authorised Transaction) Bill 2016, 3 May 2016, 
Second Reading. 
8  
Link Group Prospectus 2015, p. 16. 
9  
APRA, Superannuation Prudential Standard SPS 231, November 2012, para 21, accessible at 
http://www.apra.gov.au/Super/PrudentialFramework/Documents/Final-SPS-231-Outsourcing-
November-2012.pdf.  


Link – possible acquisition of Pillar 
 
Page 11 of 16 
developed a contingency plan.10 SAS providers are not regulated by APRA and 
it is up to the trustee to monitor and supervise the outsourced provider.11 
48. 
In light of the above, a trustee needs to be satisfied that the SAS provider has a 
demonstrated capability to service similar types of funds – both in terms of the 
complexity of the superannuation offering (for example defined benefit 
transactions) and volume of accounts.  
49. 
For the reasons above, the ACCC considers that incumbent providers of SAS 
face the greatest degree of competitive constraint from other established and 
significant SAS providers, rather than potential new entrants, smaller SAS 
providers, or the threat of funds insourcing SAS.  
Economies of scale  
50. 
Market inquiries indicate that the provision of SAS is a low margin/high volume 
business where scale is critical to be competitive. With approximately 10 million 
member accounts, Link benefits from a significant scale advantage relative to 
other SAS providers. The second and third largest SAS providers (Pillar and 
Mercer) have approximately 1 million member accounts each. 
51. 
Link’s scale advantage provides it with a greater ability to defray its costs, such 
as the cost of upgrading IT platforms in response to regulatory changes, across 
its large member account base and continually invest in technology. 
52. 
Given the importance of scale economies, market participants have raised 
concerns that the possible acquisition removes an opportunity for someone else 
to establish themselves (through Pillar) as an effective competitor.  
53. 
The ACCC considers that: 
 
the possible acquisition would remove the only large SAS provider who 
could compete for larger funds currently administered by Link 
 
SAS providers face significant difficulties achieving the requisite scale to 
compete effectively with Link 
54. 
The ACCC notes that although Mercer also manages approximately 1 million 
member accounts, this is spread across a larger number of smaller funds. 
55. 
The ACCC is still investigating the level at which a SAS provider is able to 
achieve an efficient scale to effectively compete with Link.  
Limited history of substantial or sustained entry  
56. 
Market feedback indicates there has been limited history of substantial and 
sustained new entry in recent years. A number of market participants referred to 
the exit of SAS providers Superpartners, Citistreet and IBM as a deterrent to new 
                                                 
 
10  APRA, Superannuation Prudential Standard SPS 231, November 2012, para 21, accessible at 
http://www.apra.gov.au/Super/PrudentialFramework/Documents/Final-SPS-231-Outsourcing-
November-2012.pdf.  
11  APRA, Superannuation Prudential Standard SPS 231, November 2012, para 21, accessible at 
http://www.apra.gov.au/Super/PrudentialFramework/Documents/Final-SPS-231-Outsourcing-
November-2012.pdf.  


Link – possible acquisition of Pillar 
 
Page 12 of 16 
entry, as these examples demonstrate that successful entry is unlikely to be 
successful and the entrant risks losing significant sunk costs.  
Likelihood of new entry  
57. 
The ACCC’s inquiries suggest that new entry of a sufficient scale and in a timely 
manner is unlikely due to the barriers to entry and expansion identified above. 
58. 
Market participants have noted the unique regulatory requirements of the 
Australian superannuation and taxation systems means that overseas SAS 
providers would need to adapt their technology solutions significantly to satisfy 
Australian requirements. Several market participants did not consider new entry 
from overseas SAS providers to be very likely for this reason and noted previous 
examples of unsuccessful entry by IBM and Citistreet. 
59. 
Some market participants consider evolving technology and increased 
digitisation of services could create opportunities for new entry in the future. 
They consider that if there is new entry, the most likely or best placed entrant 
would be a technology company with the capital to invest in new and innovative 
IT solutions. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the barriers to entry and 
expansion. In particular, market participants may wish to comment on the following: 
 
the upfront and ongoing costs of providing SAS, including the cost of establishing, 
or obtaining a licence to use, a platform and ongoing operating costs 
 
the features/characteristics that a new entrant would need to successfully 
compete, including scale, IT capability and range of services 
 
the switching process, including the cost and time it would take to prepare for and 
then transition to a new platform and any examples of the degree of 
platform/software customisation that is required  
 
the extent to which funds have switched SAS providers in the past (please provide 
examples of such switching) 
 
whether the possible acquisition would remove the opportunity for a third party 
(e.g. an existing SAS provider or new entrant) to establish themselves as an 
effective competitor 
 
the level at which an SAS provider would be sufficiently scaled to effectively 
compete with Link, whether it is by number of member accounts or funds under 
management 
 
whether the regulatory environment in Australia is a significant deterrent to 
overseas SAS providers entering, and if so, specify the types of complexities in the 
Australian regulatory environment and whether that is a deterrent  
 
the likelihood of a fund acquiring SAS from a technology company with a new and 
innovative IT solution, and, in particular, which SAS. 


Link – possible acquisition of Pillar 
 
Page 13 of 16 
Insourcing  
 
60. 
As discussed above, the ACCC’s preliminary view is the potential for a fund to 
insource is not likely to significantly constrain (or would only provide a very 
limited constraint on) the prices and service quality offered by Link post-
acquisition. 
61. 
The ACCC understands that the ability and willingness to insource SAS may 
also be linked to the type of fund being operated. Self-administration appears 
more prevalent for retail funds that can utilise the systems and resources of their 
related banking and wealth management entities.  
62. 
For funds that currently out-source, there are high barriers to insourcing SAS, 
including the initial core data transition cost as well as the need for technological 
upgrades and investment in a fund’s own systems in order to maintain regulatory 
compliance, and the hiring and training of staff. The market feedback suggests 
that a price rise of between 5-10 per cent is unlikely to result in funds switching 
to a self-administered model. 
63. 
The ACCC understands that in the past ten years there have been some 
examples of funds which have moved from an outsourced model to an insourced 
model. However, it appears that these examples of switching generally involved 
the merging of one fund with another fund, for example an outsourced fund 
merging with a self-administered fund and becoming part of that fund’s insourced 
system. A commonly cited exception to this is Sunsuper, which moved from an 
outsourced model to an insourced model through the acquisition of its SAS 
provider that was exiting the market.  
Insourcing of customer facing components 
64. 
The ACCC understands that there is some willingness for some funds to 
unbundle their SAS and manage certain components of SAS in-house. This 
preparedness to move some SAS components in-house appears to be largely 
focused around ‘customer facing’ components, with funds continuing to be reliant 
on a SAS provider (and a SAS provider’s underlying IT platform) for core 
administration services such as record keeping and transaction processing. 
Customer facing components include services such as the website.  
65. 
Insourcing customer facing components of SAS enables funds to benefit from 
many of those economies of scale offered by a SAS provider, but still retain 
control of their customer engagement (enabling a fund to better differentiate its 
service offering from other funds). 
66. 
The ACCC considers that the threat of insourcing may provide a slightly more 
significant competitive constraint on Link in respect of customer facing 
components of SAS, compared to core administration services such as record 
keeping and transaction processing.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the constraint imposed on 
SAS providers by the threat of a fund insourcing some or all of its SAS. In particular, 
market participants may wish to comment on the following: 
 
the extent to which insourcing is considered a viable alternative to outsourcing 
having regard to the size of the fund, the number of member accounts, the 
complexity of the scheme (e.g. whether it covers defined benefits), the range of its 


Link – possible acquisition of Pillar 
 
Page 14 of 16 
product and investment offerings, and its capacity to comply with legal 
requirements  
 
the time, resource and cost implications (if possible please provide cost estimates) 
associated with moving from outsourcing to insourcing 
 
examples of funds switching to insourcing their core processing services (as 
opposed to customer facing functions) 
 
examples of funds successfully using the threat of insourcing (partial or full) to 
obtain better terms from their existing SAS provider  
 
the cost differential between insourcing and outsourcing, and whether this varies 
according to the size and type of fund 
 
whether a fund has raised the possibility of insourcing in negotiations with an SAS 
provider 
 
whether it is appropriate to consider the competitive effects of the possible 
acquisition on the supply of all SAS or sub-sets of SAS 
 
the extent to which funds are able and willing to unbundle components of SAS and 
the difficulties associated with doing so 
 
whether the possible acquisition would impact on the ability of funds to unbundle 
SAS. 
Likelihood of self-administered funds expanding to provide SAS to other 
superannuation funds  
67. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that it is unlikely that a self-administered fund 
would provide administration services to other funds, or that the threat it would 
be able to do so would impose an effective competitive constraint on Link. 
68. 
Market participants identified a number of issues including that:  
 
the provision of SAS by a fund to other funds may conflict with its 
obligations to act in its own members’ best interests 
 
funds actively compete for members and are unlikely to use SAS 
provided by a competing fund  
 
there may be limited incentive for funds that self-administer to share what 
is perceived as a competitive advantage/point of difference with other 
funds 
 
insourced funds are not generally set up to provide third party services 
and may need to significantly alter their business model and systems to 
do this. 
69. 
However, the ACCC has received mixed feedback regarding the likelihood of 
self-administered funds commencing supply of SAS to third parties. 
70. 
Some other market participants considered that while the provision of SAS to 
third parties is not common at the moment, it could become more so in the 


Link – possible acquisition of Pillar 
 
Page 15 of 16 
future. The ACCC understands there are some self-administered funds which 
are considering providing services to third parties. However, this may be a 
precursor to merging with other funds rather than a shift toward providing third 
party SAS.  
71. 
The ACCC is continuing to assess the likelihood of self-administered funds 
providing SAS to other funds and the extent to which this would competitively 
constrain Link.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the likely constraint imposed 
on SAS providers by self-administered funds supplying SAS to third parties. In 
particular, market participants may wish to comment on the following: 
 
whether a self-administered fund would commence supplying SAS to third parties, 
and whether this is influenced by the size and type of the third party fund 
 
the time, resource and cost implications (if possible please provide cost estimates) 
associated for a self-administered fund if it wanted to commence supplying SAS to 
third parties 
 
the extent to which acquiring SAS from a competing fund is considered a viable 
alternative to a SAS provider. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view 
72. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the possible acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition by removing Pillar as a key competitor to Link in 
the supply of SAS, in circumstances where Link may face limited competitive 
constraint and barriers to entry and expansion are high.  
73. 
The ACCC is continuing to investigate the potential constraints on Link following 
the possible acquisition, including the ability and willingness of funds to insource, 
the likelihood that a self-administered fund would provide administration services 
to other funds and the likelihood of new entry and expansion. The ACCC’s 
preliminary view however is that these options would be unlikely to significantly 
constrain (or would only provide a very limited constraint on) the prices and 
service quality offered by Link. 
Issue that is unlikely to raise concerns: reduced 
competition in related product markets  
74. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the possible acquisition is not likely to 
substantially lessen competition by reducing innovation in related product 
markets, specifically those related to the IT platforms and software used in the 
provision of SAS.  
75. 
Link uses its own proprietary platform (the aaspire platform) and so its customers 
are not considered part of the contestable market by other IT platform providers. 
In comparison, Pillar currently uses Financial Synergy’s Acurity platform, while 
Mercer utilises Bravura Solution’s Sonata platform. Some insourced funds 
license their platform and software directly from an IT provider. 
76. 
The possible acquisition would remove Pillar from the contestable market as 
Pillar’s customers would be integrated into Link’s aaspire platform. However, 


Link – possible acquisition of Pillar 
 
Page 16 of 16 
based on information currently available to the ACCC, the ACCC considers that 
the reduction of the size of the contestable market arising from the possible 
acquisition is unlikely to be sufficiently significant to impact on the commerciality 
of investment and innovation by IT platform and software providers thereby 
reducing the competitive constraint that they may impose on Link. The ACCC 
understands that, if the possible acquisition did reduce the constraint provided by 
competing platform and software providers, it could in turn provide Link with an 
ability and incentive to reduce investment in its own platform. 
77. 
Although the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the possible acquisition is unlikely 
to raise concerns in related product markets, the ACCC will continue to assess 
the potential for competition concerns to arise. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants in relation to related product 
markets. In particular, market participants may wish to comment on the extent to which 
the possible acquisition would: 
 
reduce the contestable market for the supply of IT platforms/software, including the 
extent to which IT platform and software providers currently provide services to 
retail funds  
 
impact on the ability of IT platform and software providers to compete 
 
reduce the level of investment and innovation undertaken by IT platform and 
software providers. 
ACCC's future steps 
78. 
As noted above, the ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on 
each of the issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue 
that may be relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. Submissions are 
to be received by the ACCC no later than 28 October 2016 and should be 
emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au. 
79. 
The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
80. 
The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 15 December 2016. 
However the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose 
of explaining the ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's 
public announcement to explain its final view. 
 
 
