 
Page 1 of 9 
 
Public Competition Assessment 
5 September 2025 
Brookfield Renewable Holdings SAS – proposed acquisition 
of Neoen SA  
 
The ACCC’s decision 
1. 
On 31 October 2024, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission 
announced its decision not to oppose the proposed acquisition of Neoen SA 
(Neoen) (the proposed acquisition) by a consortium led by Brookfield Renewable 
Holdings SAS (Brookfield BidCo) after accepting a section 87B undertaking from 
Brookfield Renewable Group Australia Pty Ltd and Bernabeu Master UK Holdings 
Limited, as it was known at the time of the acquisition (the Undertaking).1  
2. 
The Undertaking requires the divestment of Neoen’s existing Victorian renewable 
electricity generation and storage assets and Neoen’s development projects in 
Victoria. 
3. 
The ACCC was concerned that absent the Undertaking, the proposed acquisition 
was likely to substantially lessen competition in contravention of section 50 of 
the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the Act). Section 50 prohibits 
acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of 
substantially lessening competition in any market. The ACCC considers that the 
Undertaking sufficiently addresses the competition concerns such that the 
proposed acquisition is unlikely to contravene section 50 of the Act.  
4. 
Brookfield BidCo was established by Brookfield Renewable Power and Transition 
(Brookfield Renewable), a business unit of Brookfield, a global asset 
management company.  Brookfield Renewable owns interests in X-Elio and 
TransAlta, which own renewable generation assets and gas fired power stations 
in Australia. 
5. 
Brookfield Infrastructure, another business unit of Brookfield, has an interest in 
AusNet which owns and operates electricity networks in Victoria.  
6. 
Neoen, a French company, owns and operates renewable generation assets in 
16 countries globally, including in Victoria as well as other parts of Australia.  
 
1 All information on the merger parties’ and other relevant parties’ activities and interests in this 
Public Competition Assessment is as at the date of the ACCC decision (31 October 2024). 


 
Page 2 of 9 
7. 
The ACCC considered the competitive effects of the proposed acquisition in the 
markets for: 
• 
wholesale electricity generation and supply in Victoria 
• 
wholesale electricity generation and supply in the National Electricity 
Market (NEM) 
• 
electricity generation and supply markets in Western Australia 
• 
the supply of Frequency Control Ancillary Services (FCAS) in Victoria and/or 
a broader group of National Electricity Market regions, particularly Very Fast 
FCAS (VF FCAS) 
• 
the supply of new renewable generation in Victoria 
• 
the supply of new firming capacity and new electricity storage services in 
Victoria.  
8. 
AusNet (in which Brookfield Infrastructure has a 45.4% interest) is the monopoly 
owner and operator of the electricity transmission network in Victoria.  
9. 
Neoen has three operating renewable electricity assets and six development 
projects in Victoria.  
10. The ACCC considered that, post-acquisition, Brookfield, through its interest in 
AusNet, would have the ability and incentive to foreclose the rivals of Neoen by: 
• 
delaying, and/or increasing the costs of, connecting new generation and/or 
storage assets to AusNet’s transmission network, and/or  
• 
influencing AusNet to operate its transmission network to benefit 
Brookfield owned generation and storage assets. 
11. Such a foreclosure strategy would risk substantially lessening competition in the 
supply of wholesale electricity in Victoria and, in particular, in the supply of 
renewable generation.   
12. The ACCC considered that the divestiture of Neoen’s operating assets and 
development projects in Victoria pursuant to the Undertaking will address its 
competition concerns with the proposed acquisition. This is because the 
acquisition of Neoen’s Victorian development projects and its operating assets 
by a purchaser approved by the ACCC will: 
• 
reduce the incentive for Brookfield to influence AusNet in a way that would 
discriminate against and foreclose Neoen’s rivals, and   
• 
ensure that competing generators are able to fairly compete with Brookfield 
in the future. 
13. Please note that this and other public competition assessments are subject to 
the following qualifications: 
• 
The ACCC considers each transaction on a case-by-case basis and so the 
analysis and decision outlined in one assessment will not necessarily 
reflect the ACCC’s view of another transaction. 


 
Page 3 of 9 
• 
As assessments are relatively brief and do not refer to confidential 
information, assessments do not necessarily set out all of the issues and 
information considered by the ACCC.  
The parties and the transaction  
The acquirer: Brookfield 
14. Brookfield is a global asset management company with over US$900 billion 
assets under management (at the time of the ACCC’s assessment).  
15. It is organised into six business units: Renewable Power and Transition 
(Brookfield Renewable), Infrastructure (Brookfield Infrastructure), Private Equity, 
Real Estate, and Credit and Insurance Solutions. Post-completion, Brookfield’s 
interest in Neoen will be majority controlled by Brookfield Renewable. 
Brookfield Renewable 
16. Brookfield Renewable has a 13.04% interest in TransAlta, a company that 
develops and operates generation assets in the US, Canada and Australia. 
TransAlta currently holds interests in four generation assets in Western 
Australia. 
17. Brookfield Renewable also directly develops a small number of renewable 
energy projects and owns X-Elio, a global renewable energy developer, based in 
Spain. At the time of the ACCC’s assessment, X-Elio had a further 12 projects in 
its development pipeline in Australia. Of these, three are in Victoria and are due 
to be in operation from late 2026 to 2027. 
Brookfield Infrastructure 
18. Brookfield Infrastructure has a 45.4% interest in AusNet. AusNet is the monopoly 
owner and operator of the Victorian electricity transmission network, and one of 
the five electricity distribution networks in Victoria. It also has two batteries in 
operation in Victoria, with another two in varying stages of development.  
19. AusNet has a development and future networks business which provides 
services to support the development and management of electricity 
infrastructure and installations. This business provides contestable transmission 
network connections and augmentation. 
The target: Neoen 
20. Neoen is a French public company. It specialises in the development, 
construction, financing, operation, and management of renewable energy 
projects. It operates in 16 countries including: Australia, Canada, Finland, France, 
Germany, Ireland, Mexico and Zambia.  
21. At the time of the ACCC’s assessment, Neoen had approximately 8.0GW of 
assets in operation or under construction. 


 
Page 4 of 9 
22. In Australia, Neoen had ~1.8GW of operating generation (wind and solar) and 
storage assets. It also had a development pipeline of projects amounting to ~10 
GW. In Victoria, Neoen had ~2.1GW of pipeline projects and ~500MW of 
operating assets in Victoria. 
The transaction  
23. On 29 May 2024, Brookfield entered into exclusive negotiations to acquire 
53.32% of the issued shares in Neoen SA from several independent sellers (the 
Block Acquisition). Following completion of the Block Acquisition, Brookfield 
proposes to launch a mandatory simplified tender offer for the remaining 
securities issued by Neoen (together with the Block Acquisition, this is the 
proposed acquisition). Following completion of the proposed acquisition, the 
Brookfield consortium would have 100% of the issued shares in Neoen SA. 
Market inquiries 
24. The ACCC conducted market inquiries with a range of industry participants, 
including competitors, potential competitors, customers, input suppliers, industry 
bodies and other interested parties. Submissions were sought in relation to the 
potential competition issues arising from the proposed acquisition.  
25. The ACCC also conducted market consultation on the proposed divestment. The 
ACCC obtained confidential information and documents from the merger parties 
and interested parties. 
Industry background 
26. AusNet owns and operates the monopoly electricity transmission network in 
Victoria. It also owns and operates one of the five electricity distribution 
networks in Victoria. While AusNet is the monopoly owner of the shared 
transmission network owner in Victoria, unlike other states in the National 
Electricity Market (NEM), it is not also the transmission planner. Currently, the 
Australian Energy Market Operator (AEMO) is the transmission planner for 
Victoria, responsible for planning and directing augmentation of the 
transmission network. 
27. In its operation and maintenance of the Victorian transmission network, AusNet 
is principally required to:  
(a) manage, maintain and operate the network to enable continuous transfer of 
electricity to each connection point, to minimise the number of interruptions 
and to restore supply promptly 
(b) connect and disconnect generating units, grid-scale batteries or loads from 
or to the transmission network, at AEMO’s direction or on AusNet’s own 
initiative 
(c) operate the Victorian transmission network in accordance with instructions 
given by AEMO and provide shared network capability services as required 
under its Network Services Agreement with AEMO 


 
Page 5 of 9 
(d) comply with the bushfire mitigation and other safety obligations under the 
Electricity Safety Act 1998 (Vic) 
(e) comply with the obligations imposed under its electricity transmission 
licence (issued by the Essential Services Commission of Victoria). 
28. In Victoria, the functions of the transmission provider in relation to new 
connections are divided between AEMO and AusNet, so that:  
(a) AEMO is responsible for assessing and negotiating the technical and 
system strength requirements for the applicant’s proposed connection  
(b) AusNet is responsible for negotiating the physical connection and 
augmentation works for the connection (except to the extent that some 
connection works are carried out contestably by a third-party provider) and 
then for constructing or upgrading the connection assets and operating 
and maintaining those assets (again, except to the extent some work is 
carried out by a third-party provider). 
29. Some connection services are contestable, e.g. if the works will have a capital 
cost of more than $10 million and are separable from the shared transmission 
network. In practice, every connection application will involve a non-contestable 
component, as electrical ‘cut in’ works to the shared network are always 
necessary. 
VicGrid 
30. In 2023, the Victorian government introduced a new regulatory framework for the 
planning and development of transmission infrastructure in Victoria to achieve 
net-zero emissions targets. 
31. This involved the creation of a new entity, VicGrid, that will take on some of 
AEMO’s roles in Victoria. We understand that some of AEMO’s role in 
connections in Victoria is likely to move to VicGrid. At the time of our review, 
VicGrid had not yet taken on the connections role in Victoria. 
AER’s Transmission Ring-fencing Guideline 
32. The Australian Energy Regulator (AER), under the National Electricity Rules, 
publishes a Transmission Ring-fencing Guideline. This Guideline seeks to 
prevent transmission providers from using their position as monopoly providers 
of prescribed transmission services to distort outcomes in contestable markets. 
The Guideline seeks to prevent:  
(a) cross-subsidisation, that is, using revenues from prescribed transmission 
services to subsidise the transmission provider’s activities in contestable 
markets 
(b) discrimination, where the transmission provider uses its monopoly position 
in regulated markets (or information obtained in those markets) to favour 
itself or to discriminate against a competitor in contestable markets. 
33. Prescribed transmission services are shared services provided via the 
transmission network that are paid for by all end users. At the time of our review, 


 
Page 6 of 9 
the Guideline did not cover negotiated transmission services or connection 
services which are paid for by individual connecting parties. 
Competition analysis  
34. The ACCC considered whether the proposed acquisition would be likely to result 
in a substantial lessening of competition in any relevant market via: 
(a) 
horizontal unilateral effects, or 
(b) 
vertical effects. 
Market definition 
35. Market definition is a tool that helps identify and assess the competitive 
constraints that the merged entity would face. Determining the relevant 
market(s) requires us to judge whether, for example, two products are 
sufficiently close substitutes as a matter of fact and commercial common sense 
to fall within the same market.  
36. We define markets in the way that we consider best isolates the key competition 
issues that arise from a merger. In many cases, this may not require us to 
precisely define the boundaries of a market. What matters is that we consider all 
relevant competitive constraints, and the extent of those constraints. For that 
reason, we also consider products and services that fall outside of the market, 
but which could still impose some degree of competitive constraint on the 
merged entity.  
37. The ACCC considered the likely competitive effects of the Proposed Acquisition 
on markets for: 
• 
wholesale electricity generation and supply in Victoria 
• 
wholesale electricity generation and supply in the National Electricity 
Market (NEM) 
• 
electricity generation and supply in Western Australia 
• 
the supply of Frequency Control Ancillary Services (FCAS) in Victoria and/or 
a broader group of National Electricity Market regions, particularly Very Fast 
FCAS (VF FCAS) 
• 
the supply of new renewable generation in Victoria, and  
• 
the supply of new firming capacity and new electricity storage services in 
Victoria.  
38. However, the ACCC considered it was not necessary to precisely define the 
scope of the relevant markets. 
Horizontal effects 
39. Through Brookfield’s interests in X-Elio, AusNet and TransAlta, Brookfield and 
Neoen overlap in the generation of electricity in the NEM. The ACCC therefore 
considered whether, post-acquisition, Brookfield may have a substantially 


 
Page 7 of 9 
greater ability to profitably increase the prices it charges to supply electricity into 
the NEM. 
40. The ACCC’s inquiries confirmed the strong competition that Brookfield would 
face from other electricity generators, and so the ACCC concluded it would be 
unlikely that the merged entity would have a substantially greater ability to 
influence prices than absent the proposed acquisition.  
41. As such, the ACCC considers that the proposed acquisition would not be likely to 
result in a substantial lessening of competition due to the overlap in the parties’ 
generation activities in the NEM.  
Vertical effects 
42. The ACCC’s competition concerns centred around the vertical links between 
AusNet (the Victorian transmission network operator) and Neoen that would 
arise from the proposed acquisition.  
43. A merger may substantially lessen competition if it increases the merged entity’s 
ability and/or incentive to prevent or hinder competition in downstream markets 
by refusing to deal with its downstream competitors, raising the prices it charges 
them, or decreasing the quality of service provided.  
44. The ACCC considered whether, post-acquisition, Brookfield would have the 
ability and incentive to leverage its partial ownership of AusNet and influence 
AusNet to hinder, delay, or otherwise frustrate Neoen’s rivals. 
45. If the proposed acquisition gives Brookfield the ability and incentive to foreclose 
its rivals in either:  
• 
wholesale electricity generation and supply in the NEM, or  
• 
the supply of FCAS or VF FCAS, 
then electricity consumers (or taxpayers) could be harmed through higher prices 
and/or lower quality.  
46. If, post-acquisition, Brookfield has the ability and incentive to leverage its 
ownership in AusNet to foreclose its rivals in the supply of new renewable 
generation or in the supply of new firming and storage services in Victoria, then 
the result could be less, or more expensive, renewable or firming generation or 
storage services in Victoria.  
Ability to foreclose 
47. The ACCC considered that, post-acquisition, Brookfield, through its interest in 
AusNet, would have the ability to influence AusNet to foreclose its rivals by 
delaying, or increasing the costs of, connecting new generation and/or storage 
assets to AusNet’s transmission network. The ACCC was also concerned that 
Brookfield would have the ability to cause AusNet to operate its transmission 
network to benefit Neoen-owned generation and storage assets. 
48. Market participants were of the view that this is something AusNet would be 
able to do and, in their views, owners of rival or new generators and storage 
assets or customers would find it hard to detect such conduct.  


 
Page 8 of 9 
49. Brookfield submitted that, post-acquisition, it would not be able to engage in 
discriminatory conduct because it would be subject to a robust regulatory 
regime, including the AER’s Transmission Ring-Fencing Guideline.  
50. The ACCC considered the extent to which the existing regulatory regime could 
be relied upon to prevent such conduct. The ACCC decided that discriminatory 
conduct can be hard to identify, and rectify, particularly in a timeframe that 
would prevent a substantial lessening of competition. While regulation assists in 
limiting obvious discrimination, some discrimination would be difficult to detect 
and prevent.  
Incentive to foreclose 
51. The ACCC considered that, post-acquisition, Brookfield, through AusNet, would 
have an incentive to delay, or increase the costs of, connecting participants who 
seek to use alternative suppliers of contestable transmission services.  
52. The ACCC considered that the proposed acquisition would increase Brookfield’s 
incentives to engage in such conduct. This is because delaying connections or 
increasing the prices AusNet charges to Neoen’s competitors would make 
Neoen a relatively more attractive option for tenders, as it will be able to offer 
quicker delivery and/or lower costs than its competitors.2 
53. The ACCC was also concerned that Brookfield would be able to influence AusNet 
to operate its transmission network to benefit Neoen’s generation and storage 
assets. 
54. Any attempt to foreclose or strategically reduce the quality or reliability of its 
rivals’ connections could inflict modest risks to Brookfield’s regulated revenue 
from AusNet. However, the benefits of any such actions for Brookfield’s non-
regulated assets could well be significant. 
Effect of foreclosure 
55. The partial, or total, foreclosure of Neoen’s competitors in the supply of new 
renewable generation or new firming generation and storage services in Victoria 
would significantly impact competition, enabling Neoen to profitably increase its 
tender prices. This could lead to higher prices for government and private 
acquirers of storage and renewable energy services in Victoria. 
56. The operation of AusNet’s transmission network to benefit Neoen’s generation 
and storage assets could lead to higher prices for, or lower supply of, electricity, 
FCAS and/or VF FCAS to the ultimate detriment of electricity consumers in 
Victoria and potentially other National Electricity Market regions. 
Undertaking 
57. To address the ACCC’s competition concerns, Brookfield offered an undertaking 
pursuant to section 87B of the Act. 
58. Pursuant to the Undertaking, Brookfield is required to divest the following assets 
to an ACCC-approved purchaser: 
 
2  
We consider that these price/quality levels may still be beyond a competitive level.  


 
Page 9 of 9 
(a) Neoen’s Victorian operating assets, consisting of 3 assets totalling 625MW 
of installed wind, solar and BESS capacity, and 
(b) Neoen’s Victorian development pipeline, consisting of 6 projects totalling 
2.8GW of wind and battery energy storage system capacity.   
59. The ACCC considers that a divestiture as provided for by the Undertaking will 
sufficiently address the competition concerns that have been identified with the 
proposed acquisition, as set out above.  
60. A copy of the Undertaking is available on the ACCC public informal merger 
reviews register and section 87B undertakings register. 
Conclusion 
61. The ACCC considers that the Undertaking addresses the competition concerns 
such that, with the Undertaking, the proposed acquisition would not have the 
effect, nor be likely to have the effect, of substantially lessening competition in 
any market. 
