 
 
1 
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
tel: (02) 6243 1368 
mergers@accc.gov.au
www.accc.gov.au
Our ref: IM-72054  
Contact officer: Braeden Smith 
Contact phone: 02 6243 4936 
 
 
14 December 2022 
 
Dear Interested Party 
Request for submissions: Spicers’ proposed acquisition of Domain Paper 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
the proposed acquisition of Domain Paper (Australia) Pty Ltd (Domain) by Spicers Limited 
(Spicers) (the proposed acquisition). 
Spicers and Domain overlap in the wholesale supply of commercial printing paper, 
pressure sensitive adhesive material, packaging papers and boards, and sign and display 
consumables. Further details regarding the acquisition are at Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact on competition. In particular, we are 
seeking your views on: 
• 
how closely Spicers and Domain compete with each other, and for which products 
and services 
• 
which other businesses compete with, or provide similar services and products to, 
Spicers and Domain 
• 
the likely impact of the proposed acquisition on prices of paper, packaging, pressure 
sensitive adhesive materials and sign products. 
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
Please provide your response by no later than 5pm on 23 December 2022. Responses 
may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: Submission re: Spicers Domain 
Paper - attention Braeden Smith. If you would like to arrange a time to discuss the matter 


 
2 
with ACCC officers, or have any questions about this letter, please contact Braeden Smith 
on (02) 6243 4936. 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public 
Mergers Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We will not 
disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by 
law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or during court proceedings) or 
in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010.  Where the 
ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, the ACCC will notify you in advance 
where possible so that you may have an opportunity to be heard.  Therefore, if the 
information provided to the ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our 
Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
Suzie Copley 
General Manager 
Policy, Co-ordination and Remedies Branch


 
 
3 
Attachment A 
 
Spicers 
Spicers Limited is a wholesale supplier of a range of paper, packaging, pressure 
sensitive adhesive material and sign and display products in Australia and New 
Zealand. 
Spicers is part of the wider Kokusai Pulp & Paper Co Ltd (KPP) group. KPP is a 
Japanese multinational company that operates as a trading house. KPP operations 
include the importing/exporting of paper board, pulp and other paper related products 
which KPP acquires from paper mills. 
Spicers operates warehouse facilities, in Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Townsville, 
Adelaide, Perth, Hobart and Darwin.   
Domain Paper 
Domain Paper is an independently owned wholesaler of pressure sensitive adhesive 
materials, paper and packaging products, and sign and display consumable 
products. 
Domain Paper operates from a single leased warehouse in Melbourne with 
approximately 8 employees 
 
 
 


 
4 
Attachment B 
1. Please provide a brief description of your business or organisation 
2. Please outline your interest in the proposed acquisition, including any commercial 
relationship/s with either of Spicers and/or Domain. 
The questions below have been separated into categories, however, you can answer 
any question from any category. 
Questions for all market participants 
3. How closely do Spicers and Domain compete to provide various paper, board, 
pressure sensitive adhesives and signage materials? When answering, please 
take into consideration factors such as: 
a. price 
b. quality 
c. the type of product, and any additional services, and  
d. the geographic area over which you can acquire products 
4. Please identify and describe other suppliers of commercial printing paper, 
pressure sensitive adhesive products, packaging paper and board, and signage 
materials including the extent to which they compete with Spicers and/or Domain. 
How strong is the competition that these alternative businesses provide? Are they 
able to supply all the products that you require? 
5. To what extent are you able to acquire commercial printing paper, packaging 
paper and board, pressure sensitive adhesive products or signage materials 
directly from paper mills or suppliers overseas? If you have attempted to do this 
in the past, please provide details of your experience. 
6. Please describe your organisation’s wholesale purchase/supply of commercial 
printing paper, packaging paper and board, pressure sensitive adhesives and 
signage materials. Please include information about the specific types of products 
you use/supply, how you source/produce these, how they are utilised by 
customers, volumes/value of your purchases/supply and any particular 
requirements you have (such as same day delivery etc.). 
7. Please explain the barriers to entry and/or expansion into the supply of 
commercial printing paper, packaging paper and board, pressure sensitive 
adhesives and signage materials. In your response, please have regard to: 
a. costs and time required to start supplying the products 
b. scale required to be competitive 
c. the need for exclusive/long-term customer contracts or the extent of brand 
loyalty 


 
5 
d. market growth/decline, and examples of recent market entry and exit, and 
e. whether the proposed acquisition would impact the likelihood of new 
entry.  
8. Do you have any concerns about the impact the proposed acquisition will have 
on competition? Please explain your answer. 
Other information or competition issues 
9. Please provide any additional information or comments, or identify other 
competition issues, that you consider relevant to the ACCC’s consideration of the 
proposed acquisition under section 50 of the Act.  
 
