 
1 September 2006 
 
 
Statement of Issues - Australian Pipeline Trust 
proposed acquisition of GasNet 
 
 
1. 
Outlined below is the Statement of Issues released by the Australian 
Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) in relation to the proposed 
acquisition of GasNet by Australian Pipeline Trust (proposed acquisition).  
2. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well 
as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
3. 
In line with the ACCC’s Merger Review Process Guidelines (available on the 
ACCC’s website at www.accc.gov.au) the ACCC has established a secondary 
timeline for further consideration of the issues. The ACCC anticipates 
completing further market inquiries by 10am on Monday, 11 September 2006, 
and anticipates making a final decision in mid to late September. However, the 
anticipated timeline can change in line with the Merger Review Process 
Guidelines. To keep abreast of possible changes in relation to timing and to find 
relevant documents, market participants should visit the ACCC’s website which 
contains the Mergers Register. To find the Mergers Register follow the link to 
“Public Registers” and then the link to “Mergers Register”. 
4. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties 
(including customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to 
ascertain and consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also 
intended to provide the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis 
for making further submissions should they consider it necessary. 
 
Parties 
 
Australian Pipeline Trust 
 
5. 
Australian Pipeline Trust (APT) owns, or has an interest in, over 8000 km of 
gas transmission pipelines in Australia. APT has a significant presence in NSW, 
QLD, NT and WA. APT transports close to 25% of Australia’s natural gas 
consumption through a network of pipelines which comprise a mix of mature, 
established pipelines and more recent greenfields pipelines. APT pipelines 
 
1


include the Moomba to Sydney Pipeline (MSP), its laterals and the Vic/NSW 
gas interconnect. 
6. 
The proposed acquisition is to occur through Australian Pipeline Ltd (APL), the 
responsible entity for APT. 
 
GasNet 
 
7. 
GasNet Australia (Operations) Pty Ltd (GasNet) owns and maintains 1,930 km 
of high pressure gas transmission pipeline networks, which serve a total 
consumption base of approximately 1.4 million residential consumers and 
approximately 43,000 industrial and commercial users throughout Victoria. 
8. 
GasNet’s operations are shown in blue in the diagram below.  
 
 
Source: www.gasnet.com.au 
 
 
AGL 
 
9. 
The Australian Gas Light Company (AGL) is a publicly listed company with a 
market capitalisation of approximately $8 billion. The business of AGL 
encompasses operations and assets in the following areas of the energy industry: 
• gas distribution networks; 
• gas wholesale supply; 
• gas and electricity retail supply; 
 
2


• electricity generation; and 
• electricity distribution networks 
 
10. 
AGL holds a 30% stake in APT as well as 50% of the shares in APL.  
 
The Transaction 
 
11. 
On 22 August 2006 APT announced to the ASX an offer to acquire 100% of the 
issued shares of GasNet.  
12. 
The competition effect of the proposed transaction is likely to depend on the 
outcome of the proposed Alinta-AGL joint merger proposals.  On 29 August 
2006, AGL released its Scheme Booklet to the ASX recommending that 
shareholders vote in favour of the proposal to merge its infrastructure business 
with Alinta Ltd and subsequently demerge the AGL energy business. On the 
same day Alinta Ltd (Alinta) released its Scheme Booklet recommending that 
its shareholders vote in favour of a merger of Alinta’s and AGL’s infrastructure 
and asset management businesses and the separation of AGL’s energy business.  
The proposed schemes, if approved, will lead to AGL divesting its interest in 
APT and APL. 
 
Timeline 
 
13. 
Details regarding the ACCC’s requests for information and its indicative 
timelines are available on the ACCC’s website. To find these details, follow the 
link to ‘Mergers’ and then the link to ‘Mergers Public Register.’  
14. 
The ACCC assessment so far has proceeded as follows.  
 
19-Jun-2006 
ACCC commences review under Merger Review Process Guidelines
 
 
28-Jun-2006 
ACCC requests further information from APT. ACCC timeline 
suspended 
14-Jul-2006 
ACCC receives further information from APT. ACCC timeline 
recommenced 
04-Aug-2006 
Closing date for submissions from interested parties 
16-Aug-2006 
Proposed announcement of ACCC findings delayed to allow for 
provision of further information by APT. ACCC timeline suspended. 
22-Aug-2006 
Babcock & Brown withdraws from the process.  APT announces 
intention to acquire 100% of GasNet.  
1-Sep-2006 
ACCC published a Statement of Issues outlining preliminary 
competition concerns 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3


 
Regulatory Environment 
 
15. 
Under the market carriage capacity management system operating in Victoria, 
users pay tariffs to both the system owner, GasNet, and the independent system 
operator, Victorian Energy Networks Corporation (VENCorp).  Approximately 
85 per cent of the combined tariff is paid to GasNet.   The ACCC is the 
regulator responsible for approving these tariffs. 
16. 
VENCorp is the Victorian statutory authority established under the Gas Industry 
Act 2001 (Vic) responsible for operating Victoria’s gas transmission network 
and wholesale gas spot market.  VENCorp is the independent system operator 
(but not the owner) of the gas Principal Transmission System (PTS) in Victoria. 
17. 
VENCorp’s access arrangement for 2003–07 (AA) was approved by the ACCC 
on 13 November 2002.  VENCorp’s AA sets out the required reference services 
– the services VENCorp is required to provide in order to fulfil its statutory 
obligations under the Gas Industry Act and the Market System and Operational 
Rules (MSO Rules) – in relation to the PTS. The MSO Rules govern the 
operation of the PTS and wholesale gas market in Victoria and form part of 
VENCorp’s AA.     
18. 
GasNet is the owner of the PTS.  GasNet’s current access arrangement approved 
by the ACCC is for the period 2003-07.  Revisions to that arrangement, 
commencing on 1 January 2005, were approved on 15 December 2004.  It sets 
out GasNet’s required reference service – being the availability of the PTS for 
use by gas participants. 
 
Competition Issues 
 
19. 
The ACCC has determined that if AGL divests its interest in APT, there are 
unlikely to be any competition concerns.  The ACCC notes that if Alinta 
acquires the APT interest by way of the scheme of arrangements, it has given 
undertakings to the ACCC to hold the APT interest separate and subsequently 
divest the APT interest.  
20. 
However, the ACCC has identified issues that may raise competition concerns if 
the proposed Alinta and AGL merger proposal schemes do not go ahead and 
AGL retains its 30% interest in APT.   
21. 
The proposed acquisition will mean that in addition to the key NSW pipeline 
(the MSP) being owned by APT, it will also own the key Victorian pipeline 
system. AGL, the most significant gas retailer in NSW and a significant gas and 
electricity retailer in Victoria and NSW, will hold a significant interest in APT 
and its responsible entity. 
22. 
Competition issues arise due to the significant increase in vertical integration.  
The ACCC has identified the Victorian wholesale and retail natural gas markets 
as the relevant markets for assessing the competition issues.  
 
4


23. 
In general, the ACCC has significant competition concerns where owners of 
upstream bottleneck facilities, such as gas transmission pipelines, also have 
direct or indirect interests in competitive downstream operations that depend 
upon the upstream facilities.  
24. 
Despite the regulatory environment, the owners of the upstream facilities often 
maintain significant discretion over the operation, maintenance, pricing and 
expansion of the facilities that they control, so that they could (if vertically 
integrated) potentially favour downstream related entities to the detriment of 
downstream competition and the competitive process.      
25. 
Market inquiries have revealed that currently GasNet acts independently and 
treats retailers fairly, and is supportive of expansion efforts.  After the 
acquisition, GasNet may have the incentive and ability to anti-competitively 
discriminate in favour of the AGL retailing interests.   
26. 
Market inquiries have suggested that since each of the key retailers’ interests are 
clustered in particular areas, and since each retailer tends to organise supplies of 
gas from certain locations, anti-competitive discrimination by GasNet is 
possible if GasNet is owned by an organisation that is itself linked to a retailer.  
Market inquiries have also suggested that a discriminatory approach to 
recovering costs is possible in the Victorian gas regulatory environment and that 
discrimination could occur by giving discounts on tariffs.   
27. 
The regulatory environment is clearly an important factor in assessing the 
ability to anti-competitively discriminate in favour of certain retail operations 
and harm the downstream competitive process.  The competition concerns may, 
to some extent, be offset by VENCorp’s role in the Victorian gas market and the 
fact that GasNet operates on a market carriage basis (as opposed to a contract 
carriage approach).  
28. 
The degree of influence that AGL may exert over APT and the incentives that 
APT will have after the acquisition are critical issues in the ACCC’s assessment 
of the competition issues.   
 
ACCC’s Future Steps 
 
29. 
The ACCC will finalise its decision on this matter after it considers the further 
market responses invited by this Statement of Issues.   
30. 
The ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on each of the 
issues that have been raised in this Statement of Issues and any other issues 
market participants consider are relevant to the ACCC’s assessment of this 
matter.  
31. 
Submissions are to be received by the ACCC by no later than 10am on 11 
September 2006.  Relevant contact details and updates on the timeline are 
available on the ACCC’s website (www.accc.gov.au) by following the link to 
‘Mergers’ and then the link to ‘Mergers Public Register.’  The ACCC will 
consider the submissions received from the market (including submissions from 
 
5


the acquirer) in light of the concerns that it has identified and, in conjunction 
with all other information available, will make a final decision as to the 
appropriate course of action to take to resolve any competition concerns that 
have been identified.  
32. 
It is expected that a final decision will be made in mid to late September. 
However, the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Merger Review 
Process Guidelines.  A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose of 
explaining the ACCC’s decision will be published on the ACCC website 
following the ACCC’s public announcement.  
 
 
6
