 
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
tel: (02) 6243 1368 
mergers@accc.gov.au
www.accc.gov.au
Our ref:  
IM-72195 
 
 
Contact officer:  
Lynette Lymbers 
 
Contact phone: 
(02) 9230 9132 
6 July 2023 
Dear Interested Party 
Request for submissions: Viva Energy’s proposed acquisition of OTR Group 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
the proposed acquisition of ‘On The Run’ Group (OTR Group) by Viva Energy Retail Pty Ltd 
(Viva Energy) (the proposed acquisition). 
Viva Energy (with its related bodies corporate) is a fuel refiner, importer, wholesaler, 
distributor and retailer, operating a nationwide fuel supply chain with retail sites in each 
Australian state and territory, including Coles Express branded convenience sites. Viva 
Energy is the exclusive supplier of Shell-branded fuels and lubricants in Australia. 
OTR Group is a fuel and convenience retailer operating predominantly in South Australia 
with some locations in other states and territories across Australia, including the Northern 
Territory under the Puma brand. OTR Group also supplies wholesale fuels and distribution 
services to small commercial customers and independent retail fuel sites through its Reliable 
Petroleum, Mogas Regional and Ausfuel businesses.  
As part of the proposed acquisition, Viva Energy has offered to divest 23 of its 32 retail fuel 
and convenience sites in Adelaide (proposed divestiture). 
Further details are provided at Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact on competition. In particular, we are 
seeking your views on: 
• 
whether the proposed acquisition will lead to higher retail fuel prices 
• 
whether the proposed acquisition will lead to higher retail convenience/grocery prices 
• 
how closely Viva Energy and OTR Group compete, both locally and across their 
chains, at both the retail and wholesale level 
• 
how strongly other fuel retailers and wholesalers will compete with Viva Energy after 
the acquisition 


• 
whether the proposed acquisition is likely to impact Viva Energy’s incentives to supply 
its wholesale customers who are rivals of OTR Group at the retail level 
• 
Viva Energy’s proposed divestiture. 
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
Please note the ACCC has not yet formed a view as to the nature and extent of any 
competition concerns with respect to the proposed acquisition, or whether they are capable 
of being addressed by Viva Energy’s divestiture proposal. The market consultation process 
should not be taken as an indication that the ACCC will accept the divestiture proposal or 
any remedy from Viva Energy. Please provide your response by 20 July 2023.  
Responses can be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: Submission re: Viva 
Energy OTR Group - attention Lynette Lymbers. If you require more time to respond, please 
let us know. 
If you would like to arrange a time to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any 
questions about this letter, please contact Lynette Lymbers on (02) 9230 9132. 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public Mergers 
Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC treats sensitive information it receives during a merger review as confidential, 
and will not publish your submission. We will not disclose submissions to third parties (except 
our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of 
information legislation or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the 
Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, we will notify you in advance where possible so that you have an opportunity to 
be heard. Therefore please clearly indicate if any information you provide is confidential. Our 
Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
Daniel McCracken-Hewson  
General Manager  
Merger Investigations 
 
 


 
Attachment A 
Viva Energy 
Viva Energy Group Limited is a fuel refiner, importer, wholesaler, distributor, and 
marketer. Its operations include: 
• 
a refinery in Geelong; 
• 
a national import, storage and distribution network. It is active as a primary 
wholesale fuel supplier and commercial fuel supplier in every Australian state 
and territory; and 
• 
1,306 service stations across Australia under the Shell / Coles Express (Viva 
Energy completed the acquisition of Coles Express on 1 May 2023), Liberty 
and Westside brands.   
Viva Energy holds a 50% interest in the Liberty retail business and has the option to 
acquire the remaining 50% interest in 2025, subject to ACCC approval. 
OTR Group 
OTR Group comprises entities that operate fuel, convenience and tobacco retail 
businesses, and fuel and tobacco wholesale businesses. 
Viva Energy proposes to acquire: 
• 
the retail fuel and convenience business operated by OTR Group, which 
includes 115 service stations sites in Adelaide, 13 sites in Darwin, and 6 sites 
in Perth. OTR Group sets the retail price of fuel at all its sites (except one site 
where it sets the retail price of petrol but not diesel); 
• 
Smokemart and Giftbox, tobacco and gift retailers which operate nationally, 
and duty free tobacco supplier DF Wholesalers; and 
• 
the wholesale fuel distribution business operated by Reliable Petroleum and 
Mogas Regional, which supply small commercial customers and independent 
retail sites from depots in South Australia and Victoria. 
• 
The Ausfuel Group business, which OTR Group acquired from Chevron in 
March 2023. The Ausfuel Group operates a wholesale and retail fuel business 
in the Northern Territory and north-east Western Australia, including 15 Puma-
branded sites in the Northern Territory, and 2 Puma-branded sites in Western 
Australia. 
Proposed Divestiture 
To pre-emptively address potential competition concerns that the ACCC may raise with 
the proposed acquisition, Viva Energy is proposing to divest 23 of its 32 retail fuel and 
convenience sites in Adelaide, as listed in Table 1.
Table 1: List of retail sites Viva Energy proposes to divest 
 
Location 
Address 
Coles Express Blackwood  
371 Shepherds Hill Rd, Blackwood SA 5051 
Coles Express Darlington 
1477-1479 Main South Rd, Darlington SA 
5047 
Coles Express Edwardstown 
1112 South Rd, Edwardstown SA 5039 
Coles Express Findon 
245 Findon Rd & Grange Rd, Findon SA 
5023 


Coles Express Gawler 
12 Murray St, Gawler SA 5118 
Coles Express Hallett Cove 
2 Ramrod Ave, Hallett Cove SA 5158 
Coles Express Hawthorn 
150 Belair Rd, Hawthorn SA 5062 
Coles Express Hectorville 
150 Montacute Rd, Hectorville SA 5073 
Coles Express Islington 
392 Churchill Rd, Kilburn SA 5084 
Coles Express Klemzig 
44 O.G. Rd, Klemzig SA 5087 
Coles Express Modbury North 
432 Montague Rd (Cnr Deborah Rd), 
Modbury North SA 5092 
Coles Express Noarlunga 
Beach Rd (Cnr Hannah Rd), Noarlunga 
Centre SA 5168 
Coles Express Parafield Gardens 
443 Salisbury Highway, Parafield Gardens 
SA 5107 
Coles Express Park Holme 
606-610 Marion Rd, Park Holme SA 5043 
Coles Express Queenstown 
77 Port Rd, Queenstown SA 5014 
Coles Express Reynella 
89 Main South Rd, Reynella SA 5161 
Coles Express Rose Park 
150 Fullarton Rd (Cnr Alexandra Ave), Rose 
Park SA 5067 
Coles Express Salisbury East 
1461 Main North Rd, Salisbury East SA 5109 
Coles Express Smithfield East 
Lot 182 Main North Rd, Blakeview SA 5114 
Coles Express Thebarton 
53-57 Port Rd, Thebarton SA 5031 
Coles Express West Terrace  
111 West Tce, Adelaide SA 5000 
Coles Express Windsor Gardens 
526 North East Rd (Cnr Sudholz Crt), 
Windsor Gardens SA 5087 
Coles Express Woodville 
827-837 Port Rd, Woodville SA 5011 
 
Viva Energy intends to retain 9 Shell / Coles Express sites in Adelaide, listed in Table 
2. 
 
Table 2: List of retail sites Viva Energy proposes to retain 
 
Location 
Site address 
Coles Express Elizabeth Park 
110 Yorktown Rd, Elizabeth Park SA 5113 
Coles Express Fairview Park 
323 Hancock Road, Fairview Park SA 5126 
Coles Express Mansfield Park 
452 Grand Junction Rd, Mansfield Park SA 
5012 
Coles Express West Lakes 
113 West Lakes Boulevard, West Lakes SA 
5021 
Coles Express Hope Valley 
1230 Grand Junction Rd & Valley Rd, Hope 
Valley SA 5090 
Coles Express Valley View Wright 
Road 
267 Wright Rd, Valley View SA 5093 
Coles Express Golden Grove 
Lot 203 The Grove Way & Atlantis Dr, Golden 
Grove SA 5125 
Coles Express McLaren Vale 
207 Main Rd, McLaren Vale SA 5171 
Shell Regency Park (unmanned) 
64 Pedders Crescent, Regency Park SA 
5010 
 
 
 


Attachment B 
1. If you are involved in the fuel industry, please describe your business or 
organisation and explain your interest in the proposed acquisition, including any 
commercial relationship(s) with Viva Energy and/or OTR Group. 
2. If you are not involved in the fuel industry, please explain your interest in the 
proposed acquisition. If you are writing as an individual, please indicate the suburb 
or region in which you reside and/or generally purchase fuel. 
Competition between fuel retailers 
3. Please address the closeness of competition between Viva Energy (including 
Coles Express sites) and OTR Group sites (including Puma in the Northern 
Territory) for the retail supply of fuel. Relevant factors may include geographic 
areas of supply, product ranges, non-fuel offerings, and their response to each 
other’s pricing. Please provide specific examples where possible. 
4. Fuel prices in large Australian cities tend to be cyclical. A typical price cycle 
involves a sharp increase in retail petrol prices over a relatively small number of 
days (the price increase phase), followed by a gradual decline in price over a longer 
period, up to a few weeks or more (the price decrease phase). Please comment 
on how competition between metropolitan fuel retailers in the price increase and 
decrease phases might change as a result of the proposed acquisition. For 
example, do you expect any changes in fuel retailers’ pricing behaviour over a price 
cycle in Adelaide or Darwin as a result of the proposed acquisition? 
5. Please provide any comments regarding the likely effect of the proposed 
acquisition on competition in particular local geographic areas. In doing so, please 
make reference to the extent of competition Viva Energy (including Coles Express 
sites) is likely to face from other retail service station sites post-acquisition within 
each local geographical area in which you consider there may be an issue. For 
example, do you expect Viva Energy to be able to increase fuel prices in a local 
geographical area as a result of the proposed acquisition? Please provide specific 
examples where possible.  
Competition between fuel wholesalers 
6. Please identify and describe the types of wholesale fuel you procure and/or supply 
in Australia and identify your current suppliers and /or types of wholesale 
customers. 
7. Please describe the competitiveness of the wholesale supply of fuel in South 
Australia. Relevant factors may include the number of wholesalers, the ease of 
switching between wholesalers, and the ease of changing retail branding. 
8. Please discuss whether the proposed acquisition would have any impact on 
competition in the wholesale supply of fuel in Australia. In your answer you may 
wish to address: 
a. whether the proposed acquisition is likely to enable Viva Energy to increase its 
wholesale prices or offer less favourable wholesale supply terms  to customers.  
b. the extent to which there is competition between Viva Energy and OTR Group 
(including Reliable Petroleum, Mogas Regional and Ausfuel) for the wholesale 
supply of fuel in any geographic areas. 


c. the likelihood of new entry or expansion into wholesale fuel distribution in 
response to a combined Viva Energy/OTR Group attempting to increase 
wholesale prices. In your response, please consider the likely costs and 
timeframe for market entry or expansion. 
Competition for convenience groceries and quick service restaurants  
9. 
Please describe the extent of competition between Viva Energy and OTR Group 
for the retail supply of convenience grocery offerings.  
10. Please provide any comments regarding the likely effect of the proposed 
acquisition on competition for the retail supply of convenience grocery offerings in 
particular local geographic areas. In doing so, please make reference to the extent 
of competition Viva Energy (including Coles Express sites) is likely to face from 
other retail service station sites and convivence and grocery providers within each 
local geographic area in which you consider there may be an issue. 
Questions about the proposed divestiture 
11. Please explain why Viva Energy’s proposed divestiture would or would not fully 
address any concerns you have in relation to the proposed acquisition. 
12. Please provide any comments on whether the sites that Viva Energy is proposing 
to divest are likely to attract a suitable purchaser. 
Other questions 
13. Please provide any additional information or comments, or identify other competition 
issues, that you consider relevant to the ACCC’s consideration of the proposed 
acquisition under section 50 of the Act. 
 
 
