 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Undertaking to the Australian 
Competition and Consumer 
Commission 
 
 
 
Given under section 87B of the Competition and 
Consumer Act 2010 (Cth) by Viva Energy Group 
Limited ACN 626 661 032 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
Contents 
1. 
Person giving the Undertaking ................................................................................... 1 
2. 
Background .................................................................................................................... 1 
3. 
Commencement of this Undertaking ......................................................................... 3 
4. 
Cessation of Ongoing Obligations ............................................................................ 4 
5. 
Divestiture of the Divestiture Business .................................................................... 4 
6. 
Process for approving a proposed purchaser ......................................................... 7 
7. 
Divestiture Business Protection ................................................................................ 8 
8. 
Independent Management of the Divestiture Business ....................................... 11 
9. 
Independent Audit ...................................................................................................... 15 
10. Failure to divest the Divestiture Business within Initial Sale Period ................. 19 
11. Notification of key dates and ACCC requests for information ........................... 24 
12. Disclosure of this Undertaking ................................................................................. 25 
13. Obligation to procure ................................................................................................. 26 
14. No Derogation .............................................................................................................. 26 
15. Change of Control ....................................................................................................... 26 
16. Costs ............................................................................................................................. 26 
17. Resolving Inconsistencies ........................................................................................ 26 
18. Notices .......................................................................................................................... 26 
19. Defined terms and interpretation ............................................................................. 27 
Schedule 1 – Dictionary and interpretation ..................................................................... 29 
Schedule 2 – Proposed Purchaser Notice Form ............................................................ 34 
Schedule 3 – Proposed Undertaking Appointment Form ............................................. 37 
Schedule 4 – Divestiture Business ................................................................................... 41 
Confidential Schedule 5 ...................................................................................................... 43 
Schedule 6 – Approved Purchaser ................................................................................... 44 
Confidential Schedule 7 ...................................................................................................... 45 
Schedule 8 – Relevant Personnel ..................................................................................... 46 


1 
 
 
 
 
1. 
Person giving the Undertaking 
1.1. 
This Undertaking is given to the Australian Competition and Consumer 
Commission (ACCC) by Viva Energy Group Limited ACN 626 661 032 on behalf 
of itself and its related bodies corporate (Viva Energy). 
2. 
Background 
The parties to the Proposed Acquisition 
2.1. 
Viva Energy is an energy company which, through its wholly-owned subsidiaries, 
conducts downstream fuel refining, importing, distribution and marketing in 
Australia and operates a nationwide fuel supply chain consisting of the Geelong 
refinery and an import, storage and distribution network. Through its subsidiaries, 
Viva Energy is the exclusive supplier of Shell-branded fuels and lubricants in 
Australia. It is also active as a primary wholesale fuel supplier and commercial fuel 
supplier (i.e., to commercial customers) in every Australian state and territory. As 
of 1 September 2023, Viva Energy's retail fuel network from which it supplies fuel 
products consists of 1307 sites across Australia, including 706 Shell/Coles Express 
co-branded sites at which Viva Energy controls the retail price of fuel, of which 44 
are located in South Australia, with the balance being dealer sites at which Viva 
Energy does not control the retail price. 
2.2. 
On the Run Pty Ltd (ACN 638 356 466) (OTR) and its related bodies is a privately 
owned operator of 153 retail fuel and convenience sites in South Australia, of 
which 115 are located in metropolitan Adelaide. OTR currently has an exclusive 
fuel supply contract with BP for all of its sites in South Australia. Sites supplied by 
BP have associated branding on the forecourt with "OTR" convenience stores on 
all sites except for S24 Kensington Gardens, S24 Tanunda, S24 Welland and Largs 
Bay OPT. 
The Proposed Acquisition 
2.3. 
On 5 April 2023, Viva Energy entered into a share sale deed with, among others, 
Viva Energy Australia Pty Ltd (ACN 004 610 459), Viva Energy Group Ltd (ACN 
626 661 032), Yasser Shahin, Khalil Shahin and Samer Shahin (Share Sale Deed) 
under which Viva Energy agreed to:  
(a) acquire the entities which constitute: 
(i) 
the retail fuel and convenience business consisting of 184 retail fuel 
and convenience sites operated by OTR under the brand name 
"OTR". From these 184 retail fuel and convenience sites, On the Run 
operates "OTR" branded convenience stores and certain franchised 
restaurants (including Hungry Jack's, Oporto and Guzman Y Gomez 
restaurants);  
(ii) 
a franchise business comprised of eight "Krispy Kreme" branded 
sites, two "Hungry Jack's" branded restaurants, two "Happy Wash" 
branded car wash sites, two "Guzman Y Gomez" branded 
restaurants, seven "Subway" branded restaurants and one 
supermarket (operated by OTR and its subsidiaries);  
(iii) 
the duty-free tobacco sales business operated by DF Wholesalers Pty 
Ltd (ACN 604 041 241); and 


2 
 
 
 
 
(iv) 
the wholesale fuel distribution business operated by Reliable 
Petroleum Pty Ltd (ACN 602 197 375) and Mogas Regional Pty Ltd 
(ACN 111 402 110); and 
(b) procure the entry into a business sale agreement under which a subsidiary of 
Viva Energy would agree to:  
(i) 
acquire certain assets of SEPL Pty Ltd (ACN 008 150 543) as trustee 
for the SFT Trust (ABN 75 492 874 033) (SFT Trust) which relate to 
the retail and wholesale tobacco, gift and e-cigarette business 
operated under the "Smokemart", "Giftbox" and "Vape Square" 
banners (SMGB Business); and 
(ii) 
acquire all of the issued share capital of Vape Square Online Pty Ltd 
(ACN 636 609 526), which operates the online "Vape Square" 
business (being one arm of the SMGB Business) 
(Proposed Acquisition). 
The ACCC’s review 
2.4. 
On 6 July 2023, the ACCC commenced its public review of the Proposed 
Acquisition.   
2.5. 
At the time it sought informal merger clearance from the ACCC, Viva Energy 
offered to divest 23 retail fuel and convenience sites in Adelaide, South Australia 
to pre-emptively address potential competition concerns that the ACCC may 
raise with the Proposed Acquisition (Initial Divestiture Offer).  
2.6. 
The ACCC undertook market inquiries and considered information provided by 
Viva Energy, Peregrine, industry participants and others. The purpose of the 
ACCC’s inquiries was to assess: 
(a) whether the Proposed Acquisition would have the effect, or be likely to have 
the effect, of substantially lessening competition in any market in Australia in 
contravention of section 50 of the Act; and 
(b) whether the Initial Divestiture Offer would address the ACCC’s potential 
competition concerns.  
2.7. 
Following feedback from market participants and in response to further concerns 
from the ACCC, Viva Energy increased the number of sites to be divested to 25 
retail fuel and convenience sites in South Australia (Divestiture Business). 
The ACCC’s competition concerns 
2.8. 
The ACCC has concluded that, in the absence of the Undertaking, the Proposed 
Acquisition would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of substantially 
lessening competition in the supply of retail fuel in South Australia and in a number 
of local areas in South Australia. 
2.9. 
The ACCC found that Viva Energy and OTR are competitors for the supply of retail 
fuel in South Australia. OTR has the largest network of retail fuel sites in South 
Australia, with Viva Energy also having a significant number of retail fuel sites in 
South Australia. The ACCC considered that the Proposed Acquisition would 
remove OTR as a competitor to Viva Energy for the supply of retail fuel South 
Australia. Additionally, the Proposed Acquisition would provide Viva Energy with a 


3 
 
 
 
 
substantial market share in the supply of retail fuel in South Australia well above 
remaining competitors through the addition of the significant OTR network to Viva 
Energy’s existing network of fuel sites in South Australia.  
2.10. 
The ACCC was also concerned that Viva Energy having a significant market 
presence in the retail supply of fuel in South Australia, in combination with Viva 
Energy also having a significant presence in the wholesale supply of fuel in South 
Australia, may have the effect of reducing competition for the supply of wholesale 
fuel in South Australia.  
2.11. 
In additional to state wide supply concerns, the ACCC also found that Viva Energy 
and OTR are close competitors in several local areas within South Australia. The 
ACCC was concerned that the Proposed Acquisition would remove a competitor in 
a number of local areas in South Australia and that there would be few remaining 
competitors to effectively constrain Viva Energy from increasing prices (or 
implementing equivalent reduction in non-price aspects of its retail offerings) in 
these local areas.  
2.12. 
Overall, the ACCC was concerned that, in the absence of the Undertaking, the 
Proposed Acquisition would substantially reduce competition in the supply of retail 
fuel in South Australia and the supply of retail fuel in a number of local areas in 
South Australia where Viva Energy and OTR sites overlap. 
The Undertaking remedy 
2.13. 
Viva Energy does not consider that the Proposed Acquisition would have the effect, 
or be likely to have the effect, of substantially lessening competition in any relevant 
market. However, to address the ACCC's competition concerns, Viva Energy has 
offered this Undertaking pursuant to section 87B of the Act. The objective of this 
Undertaking is to address the ACCC's competition concerns which would otherwise 
arise as a consequence of the Proposed Acquisition. This Undertaking aims to 
achieve this objective by placing obligations on Viva Energy to:  
(a) ensure that the Divestiture Business is sold to an Approved Purchaser that 
will result in the creation or strengthening of a viable, effective, stand-alone, 
independent and long term competitor for the supply of retail fuel in South 
Australia and in a number of local areas in South Australia;  
(b) ensure the purchaser of the Divestiture Business has all the necessary 
associated assets and rights to compete effectively with Viva Energy in the 
supply of retail fuel in South Australia and in a number of local areas in South 
Australia; 
(c) 
maintain the economic viability, marketability, competitiveness and goodwill 
of the Divestiture Business prior to divestiture; and 
(d) provide for the effective oversight of Viva Energy's compliance with this 
Undertaking. 
3. 
Commencement of this Undertaking 
3.1. 
This Undertaking comes into effect when: 
(a) 
this Undertaking is executed by Viva Energy; and 
(b) 
this Undertaking so executed is accepted by the ACCC 


4 
 
 
 
 
(the Commencement Date). 
4. 
Cessation of Ongoing Obligations 
Revocation 
4.1. 
The ACCC may, at any time, revoke its acceptance of this Undertaking if the ACCC 
becomes aware that any information provided to it was incorrect, inaccurate or 
misleading. Such a revocation must be express and in writing.  
Waiver 
4.2. 
The ACCC may, at any time, waive any of the obligations contained in this 
Undertaking. Such a waiver must be express and in writing.  
Extension 
4.3. 
The ACCC may, at any time, extend the date by which any of the obligations in this 
Undertaking is to be satisfied. Such an extension must be express and in writing.  
Survival 
4.4. 
Unless and until this Undertaking is withdrawn in accordance with section 87B(2) 
of the Act, clauses 1, 2, 3, 4, 9, 11, 12, 13, 14, 16, 17 and 18 survive completion of 
the obligations in clauses 5, 6, 7, 10 and Schedule 4, Confidential Schedule 5, 
Schedule 6, Confidential Schedule 7 and Schedule 8. 
5. 
Divestiture of the Divestiture Business 
Divestiture  
5.1. 
Viva Energy must, in accordance with this Undertaking, divest, or cause the 
divestiture of, the Divestiture Business only to an Approved Purchaser.  
5.2. 
In the event that clause 10 applies, Viva Energy must not authorise the Approved 
Divestiture Agent to divest the Unsold Business to a purchaser other than the 
Approved Purchaser. 
5.3. 
Viva Energy must divest, or cause the divestiture of, all of the Divestiture Business 
by: 
(a) the sale, assignment, transfer and/or licence of all of the assets in Schedule 
4 to the Approved Purchaser, pursuant to the Approved Sale and Purchase 
Agreement and within the Initial Sale Period, otherwise clause 10 applies; 
(b) the transfer or grant to the Approved Purchaser of all Consents pursuant to 
clauses 5.4 to 5.5; 
(c) 
the transfer of any Transferred Personnel required pursuant to clauses 5.7 to 
5.8; 
(d) compliance with any Approved Transitional Technical Assistance Agreement 
required pursuant to clauses 5.9 to 5.11; and 
(e) compliance with any Approved Transitional Supply Agreement required 
pursuant to clauses 5.12 to 5.14. 


5 
 
 
 
 
Consents 
5.4. 
Viva Energy must:  
(a) obtain or assist the Approved Purchaser to obtain as expeditiously as 
possible, all Consents as required before completion of the divestiture of each 
Divestiture Site; 
(b) comply with all requirements necessary to obtain any Consents, including by 
promptly providing all information necessary for the Consents to be given; 
(c) 
act in good faith in its negotiations with the Approved Purchaser in relation to 
obtaining any Consents; 
(d) promptly pay the costs and expenses of any third party reasonably incurred 
in providing the Consents; and 
(e) enter an agreement with the Approved Purchaser and approved by the 
ACCC, or vary any existing Approved Transitional Supply Agreement as 
required by the Approved Purchaser, in relation to any goods or services that 
are required for the operation of each Divestiture Site which may be affected 
by any failure to gain a Consent. 
5.5. 
If, seven Business Days before completion of the divestiture of each Divestiture 
Site, the Approved Purchaser does not or is otherwise unable to obtain one or more 
Consents, then Viva Energy must: 
(a) immediately provide to the ACCC and the Approved Purchaser in writing 
details of the: 
(i) 
Consents that have not been obtained; 
(ii) 
reasons why the Consents have not been obtained; and 
(iii) 
information or material required to obtain the Consents. 
(b) continue to do everything in its power to satisfy clause 5.4 as soon as possible 
after the completion of the divestiture of each Divestiture Site (and until such 
time as clause 5.4 is satisfied).  
5.6. 
Even if Viva Energy has complied with clause 5.4 and 5.5, Viva Energy will be in 
breach of this Undertaking if Viva Energy is unable to effect the divestiture of a 
Divestiture Site by reason that one or more Consents are not obtained.  
Transferred Personnel  
5.7. 
At the option of the Approved Purchaser, Viva Energy must transfer to the 
Approved Purchaser: 
(a) all employees; and 
(b) all service providers under a contract for service; 
who are, in the view of the Approved Purchaser, required for the Approved Purchaser 
to maintain, operate or conduct effectively the Divestiture Business and who consent 
to the transfer of their employment or contract for service to the Approved Purchaser 
(Transferred Personnel). 


6 
 
 
 
 
5.8. 
When fulfilling its obligations under clause 5.7, Viva Energy must:  
(a) encourage all Transferred Personnel to remain with the Divestiture Business, 
including offering incentives based on industry practice;  
(b) not directly or indirectly discourage any Transferred Personnel from any 
obligations to provide services to the Divestiture Business; 
(c) 
effective on the date of the divestiture of each Divestiture Site, release the 
relevant Transferred Personnel for that site from any obligations to provide 
services to Viva Energy;  
(d) effective on the date of the divestiture of each Divestiture Site, release the 
relevant Transferred Personnel for that site from any non-compete or similar 
restraint of trade obligation, to the extent that such an obligation would 
otherwise prevent the person from performing his or her contemplated role in 
relation to the Divestiture Business or Unsold Business; and 
(e) not procure, promote or encourage the transfer of any of the Transferred 
Personnel from the Approved Purchaser to Viva Energy for a period of 12 
months after the completion of the divestiture of each Divestiture Site. 
Technical Assistance 
5.9. 
At the option of the Approved Purchaser, Viva Energy must supply to the Approved 
Purchaser, under an Approved Transitional Technical Assistance Agreement, any 
Technical Assistance that is required by the Approved Purchaser in order to 
operate the Divestiture Business. 
5.10. 
Viva Energy must ensure that any Approved Transitional Technical Assistance 
Agreement, and any renewal or extension of an Approved Transitional Technical 
Assistance Agreement, provides for the supply of Technical Assistance:  
(a) on a transitional basis for a period that is nominated by the Approved 
Purchaser and approved in writing by the ACCC; and 
(b) at cost price and otherwise on arm's length terms. 
5.11. 
To avoid doubt, Viva Energy must seek prior written approval from the ACCC of 
any renewal or extension of an Approved Transitional Technical Assistance 
Agreement. Without limiting the ACCC’s discretion in making a decision on whether 
to approve a renewal or extension of an Approved Transitional Technical 
Assistance Agreement, the ACCC will have regard to the criteria set out in clauses 
5.9 and 5.10. 
Transitional Supply Agreements  
5.12. 
At the option of the Approved Purchaser, Viva Energy must ensure the continued 
supply by Viva Energy to the Approved Purchaser, under an Approved Transitional 
Supply Agreement, of any goods or services that Viva Energy can reasonably 
supply and that are required by the Approved Purchaser in order for the Approved 
Purchaser to be established as a viable, effective, stand-alone, independent and 
long-term competitor in the supply of retail fuel in South Australia and in a number 
of local areas in South Australia.  
5.13. 
Viva Energy must ensure that any Approved Transitional Supply Agreement and 
any renewal or extension of an Approved Transitional Supply Agreement:  


7 
 
 
 
 
(a) is for a reasonable transitional period, to be nominated by the Approved 
Purchaser and approved in writing by the ACCC;  
(b) provides for the supply of the included goods and services at cost price or as 
otherwise approved in writing by the ACCC; and 
(c) 
is on such terms other than price which are no less favourable to the 
Approved Purchaser than arm's length terms.  
5.14. 
To avoid doubt, Viva Energy must seek prior written approval from the ACCC of 
any renewal or extension of an Approved Transitional Supply Agreement. Without 
limiting the ACCC’s discretion in making a decision on whether to approve a 
renewal or extension of an Approved Transitional Supply Agreement, the ACCC 
will have regard to the criteria set out in clauses 5.12 and 5.13. 
6. 
Process for approving a proposed purchaser 
Potential purchasers 
6.1. 
Viva Energy must provide the ACCC and Approved Independent Auditor with: 
(a) the identity of any person who expresses an interest in acquiring the 
Divestiture Business;  
(b) the status of negotiations with each person; and  
(c) 
a copy of each person’s offer to acquire the Divestiture Business, where 
relevant; 
at the following times: 
(d) as soon as possible following the Commencement Date for those persons 
who express interest before the Commencement Date;  
(e) after the Commencement Date, within 10 Business Days of each person 
expressing the interest and/or providing an offer;  
regardless of whether the person subsequently withdraws or is declined. 
Provision of a notice for a Proposed Purchaser  
6.2. 
To seek ACCC approval for a Proposed Purchaser, Viva Energy or the Approved 
Divestiture Agent must provide the ACCC with a notice in the form prescribed in 
Schedule 2 to this Undertaking (Proposed Purchaser Notice), including a draft 
sale and purchase agreement, a draft transitional technical assistance agreement 
(where required by the Proposed Purchaser), and a draft transitional supply 
agreement (where required by the Proposed Purchaser). 
6.3. 
The Proposed Purchaser Notice must be provided to the ACCC at least 20 
Business Days prior to the end of the Initial Sale Period.  
Purchaser approved at the time the Undertaking was accepted 
6.4. 
At the time this Undertaking was accepted, the ACCC also considered information 
of the type required in a Proposed Purchaser Notice and approved the Proposed 
Purchaser identified in Schedule 6 as the Approved Purchaser of the Divestiture 
Business, subject to clause 6.8. 


8 
 
 
 
 
6.5. 
ACCC approval of the Proposed Purchaser identified in Schedule 6 as the 
Approved Purchaser of the Divestiture Business included approval of the draft 
Business Sale Agreement in the form of the attached Confidential Schedule 7 as 
the Approved Sale and Purchase Agreement. 
Approval of a Proposed Purchaser after the Commencement Date 
6.6. 
The ACCC may, in its discretion, approve or reject in writing the Proposed 
Purchaser identified in the Proposed Purchaser Notice. In exercising this 
discretion, the ACCC will consider, without limitation: 
(a) the draft sale and purchase agreement attached to the Proposed Purchaser 
Notice;  
(b) any draft transitional technical assistance agreement attached to the 
Proposed Purchaser Notice, in accordance with the criteria in clauses 5.9 and 
5.10; and 
(c) 
any draft transitional supply agreement attached to the Proposed Purchaser 
Notice, in accordance with the criteria in clauses 5.12 and 5.13. 
6.7. 
Without limiting the ACCC's discretion, in making the decision described in clause 
6.6, the factors to which the ACCC may have regard include whether the: 
(a) draft sale and purchase agreement is consistent with this Undertaking and 
otherwise acceptable to the ACCC; 
(b) Proposed Purchaser will complete the transaction as contemplated by the 
draft sale and purchase agreement; 
(c) 
Proposed Purchaser is independent of, and has no direct or indirect interest 
in, Viva Energy; 
(d) Proposed Purchaser is of good financial standing; 
(e) Proposed Purchaser has an intention to maintain and operate the Divestiture 
Business as a going concern; 
(f) 
Proposed Purchaser is able to conduct the Divestiture Business effectively; 
and 
(g) divestiture of the Divestiture Business to the Proposed Purchaser will address 
any competition concerns of the ACCC, including in relation to the likely long-
term viability and competitiveness of the Divestiture Business under the 
ownership of the Proposed Purchaser. 
6.8. 
The ACCC may revoke the Approved Purchaser's status as an Approved 
Purchaser if the ACCC becomes aware that any material information provided to it 
by Viva Energy was incorrect, inaccurate or misleading. 
7. 
Divestiture Business Protection 
Protection of the Divestiture Business 
7.1. 
From the Control Date, Viva Energy must not sell or transfer its interest, or any 
assets or resources comprising part of, or used in, the Divestiture Business (other 
than the sale of goods and services in the ordinary course of business) or make 


9 
 
 
 
 
any Material Change except in accordance with this Undertaking or (subject to 
other terms of this Undertaking) as necessary to allow completion of the Proposed 
Acquisition. 
7.2. 
Notwithstanding clause 7.1 above, Viva Energy may temporarily cease trading 
activities being carried on each subject site for a reasonable duration (but in any 
event no longer than five Business Days) in order to effect signage changes and 
debranding required in order to comply with its obligations to Coles, Shell, Chevron 
or an Approved Purchaser. 
Viva Energy's obligations in relation to the Divestiture Business prior to completion 
of divestiture 
7.3. 
Without limiting this clause 7, Viva Energy must, from the Control Date until 
completion of the divestiture of each Divestiture Site, take all steps available to it 
to:  
(a) ensure that each Divestiture Site is managed and operated in the ordinary 
course of business as a fully operational, competitive going concern and in 
such a way that preserves the economic viability, marketability, 
competitiveness and goodwill of each Divestiture Site at the Control Date; 
(b) continue to provide access to working capital and sources of credit for each 
Divestiture Site in a manner which is consistent with the financing of each 
Divestiture Site before the Control Date;  
(c) 
continue to provide administrative and technical support for each Divestiture 
Site in a manner which is consistent with the operation of each Divestiture 
Site before the Control Date and in accordance with any plans established 
before the Control Date; 
(d) continue existing Agreements relating to the Divestiture Business with 
customers, suppliers and / or other third parties that are in place at the Control 
Date; 
(e) renew or replace upon expiry Material Contracts for the provision of goods or 
services to each Divestiture Site on commercial terms favourable to the 
Divestiture Business; 
(f) 
maintain the supply of those goods and services that are part of each 
Divestiture Site to existing customers in a manner consistent with the supply 
of those goods and services as at the Control Date; 
(g) maintain the standard of manufacture, distribution, promotion and sale of 
those products which form part of each Divestiture Site as at the Control Date;  
(h) promote and market the products that form part of each Divestiture Site in 
accordance with any plans established before the Control Date; and 
(i) 
carry out such other actions or plans that the Approved Independent Manager 
considers to be necessary or convenient to maintain each Divestiture Site as 
an effectively competitive going concern. 
Personnel of Viva Energy 
7.4. 
From the Control Date until completion of the divestiture of the Divestiture 
Business, Viva Energy must:  


10 
 
 
 
 
(a) in consultation with the Approved Independent Manager, replace any 
(i) 
Transferred Personnel; or  
(ii) 
if the Transferred Personnel have not yet been identified, any 
personnel necessary for the operation of the Divestiture Business;  
who leave or will leave the Divestiture Business before divestiture; 
(b) not terminate or vary the terms of employment or engagement (or agree to 
do any of those things) of any of the  
(i) 
Transferred Personnel; or  
(ii) 
if the Transferred Personnel have not yet been identified, any 
personnel necessary for the operation of the Divestiture Business; 
and  
(c) 
not directly or indirectly procure, promote or encourage the redeployment of 
personnel necessary for the operation of the Divestiture Business as at the 
Control Date to any other business operated by Viva Energy.   
7.5. 
As soon as practicable after the Commencement Date, Viva Energy must direct all 
Relevant Personnel not to do anything inconsistent with Viva Energy's obligations 
under this Undertaking. 
Ongoing obligations in relation to the Divestiture Business 
7.6. 
To the extent Viva Energy has obligations in relation to the provision of transitional 
technical assistance or continued supply pursuant to clauses 5.9 to 5.14 of this 
Undertaking in relation to the Divestiture Business, Viva Energy must not sell, 
assign, transfer, and/or licence directly or indirectly any of the assets necessary to 
fulfil such obligations without the prior written consent of the ACCC. 
Confidential Information 
7.7. 
Subject to clause 7.8, Viva Energy must not, at any time from the Commencement 
Date, use or disclose any confidential information about the Divestiture Business 
gained through:  
(a) ownership and/or management of the Divestiture Business; or 
(b) fulfilling any obligations pursuant to this Undertaking. 
7.8. 
Clause 7.7 does not apply to information that Viva Energy requires to:  
(a) comply with legal and regulatory obligations including obligations relating to 
taxation, accounting, financial reporting or stock exchange disclosure 
requirements; or 
(b) carry out its obligations pursuant to this Undertaking; 
provided such information is only used for that purpose and is only disclosed to 
those officers, employees, contractors and advisers of Viva Energy who need to 
know the information to carry out the permitted purpose. 


11 
 
 
 
 
8. 
Independent Management of the Divestiture Business 
Obligation to appoint an Approved Independent Manager 
8.1. 
Viva Energy must appoint and maintain an Approved Independent Manager to 
manage the Divestiture Business, from the Control Date until the completion of the 
divestiture of the Divestiture Business in accordance with this Undertaking.  
Process for approving a Proposed Independent Manager 
8.2. 
At least 15 Business Days before the Control Date, Viva Energy must provide the 
ACCC with a notice for a Proposed Independent Manager in the form prescribed 
in Schedule 3 to this Undertaking (Proposed Independent Manager Notice), 
including a draft terms of appointment and a draft separation and management 
plan.  
8.3. 
If clauses 8.12, 8.13 or 8.14 apply, Viva Energy must provide the ACCC with a 
Proposed Independent Manager Notice within five Business Days after the relevant 
event occurs. 
8.4. 
The ACCC shall have the discretion to approve or reject in writing the Proposed 
Independent Manager identified in the Proposed Independent Manager Notice. 
8.5. 
Without limiting the ACCC’s discretion, in deciding whether to approve a Proposed 
Independent Manager, the factors to which the ACCC may have regard include 
whether the:  
(a) person named in the Proposed Independent Manager Notice or identified by 
the ACCC has the qualifications and experience necessary to manage the 
Divestiture Business;  
(b) person named in the Proposed Independent Manager Notice or identified by 
the ACCC is sufficiently independent of Viva Energy;  
(c) 
draft terms of appointment and the draft separation and management plan are 
consistent with this Undertaking; and 
(d) draft terms of appointment and the draft separation and management plan are 
otherwise acceptable to the ACCC. 
Appointment of the Approved Independent Manager 
8.6. 
 After receiving a written notice from the ACCC of its approval of the Proposed 
Independent Manager, the draft terms of appointment and draft separation and 
management plan, Viva Energy must by the Control Date: 
(a) appoint the person approved by the ACCC as the Approved Independent 
Manager on the Approved Terms of Appointment; and 
(b) forward to the ACCC a copy of the executed Approved Terms of Appointment. 
Failure to appoint 
8.7. 
If: 
(a) the Approved Independent Manager has not been appointed by the Control 
Date; 


12 
 
 
 
 
(b) the Approved Independent Manager has not been appointed within 15 
Business Days after the Approved Independent Manager resigns or otherwise 
ceases to act as the Approved Independent Manager pursuant to clause 8.12, 
8.13 or 8.14; or 
(c) 
the ACCC has not received a Proposed Independent Manager Notice 
pursuant to clause 8.2 or 8.3; 
then clause 8.8 applies. 
8.8. 
If clause 8.7 applies, the ACCC may, in its discretion: 
(a) identify and approve a person as the Approved Independent Manager, 
including approving the draft terms of appointment of the Approved 
Independent Manager and the draft separation and management plan; and/or 
(b) direct Viva Energy to appoint a person who the ACCC has deemed is an 
Approved Independent Manager.   
Obligations and powers of the Approved Independent Manager 
8.9. 
Viva Energy must procure that any proposed terms of appointment for the 
Approved Independent Manager include obligations on the Approved Independent 
Manager to:  
(a) maintain his or her independence from Viva Energy, apart from appointment 
to the role of Approved Independent Manager, including not forming any 
relationship of the types described in paragraph 2.2(c) of Schedule 3 to this 
Undertaking with Viva Energy for the period of his or her appointment;  
(b) act in the best interests of the Divestiture Business at all times including 
ensuring that the Divestiture Business is managed and operated in the 
ordinary course of business as a fully operational, competitive going concern 
and in such a way that preserves the economic viability, marketability, 
competitiveness and goodwill of the Divestiture Business at the Control Date; 
(c) 
not use any confidential information gained through the management of the 
Divestiture Business other than for performing his or her functions as 
Approved Independent Manager; 
(d) make only those Material Changes to the Divestiture Business which the 
ACCC does not object to; 
(e) operate and manage the Divestiture Business to the maximum extent 
practicable, in a manner which is financially and operationally separate from 
Viva Energy; 
(f) 
co-operate with the requests of any Approved Divestiture Agent or Approved 
Independent Auditor appointed pursuant to this Undertaking; 
(g) provide the following reports directly to the ACCC: 
(i) 
a monthly written report regarding the implementation of and any 
suggested changes to the Approved Separation and Management Plan; 
and 


13 
 
 
 
 
(ii) 
an immediate report of any issues that arise in relation to the 
implementation of the Approved Separation and Management Plan or 
Viva Energy’s compliance with this Undertaking; and 
(h) follow any direction given to him or her by the ACCC in relation to the 
performance of his or her functions as Approved Independent Manager 
pursuant to this Undertaking. 
8.10. 
Viva Energy must procure that any proposed terms of appointment for the 
Approved Independent Manager provide the Approved Independent Manager with 
the sole authority to:  
(a) manage and operate the Divestiture Business according to the Approved 
Separation and Management Plan until the completion of the divestiture of the 
Divestiture Business; 
(b) provide any information requested by Viva Energy pursuant to the protocol in 
the Approved Separation and Management Plan;  
(c) 
decide whether or not to provide access and the manner of such access to 
competitively sensitive information relating to the Divestiture Business 
requested by Viva Energy which is not covered by the protocol in the 
Approved Separation and Management Plan; 
(d) renew or replace upon expiry Material Contracts and enter into new contracts 
for the provision of goods or services to the Divestiture Business on 
commercial terms favourable to the Divestiture Business; 
(e) engage, redeploy or make redundant personnel employed in the Divestiture 
Business as the Approved Independent Manager determines necessary; and 
(f) 
engage any external expertise, assistance or advice required by the Approved 
Independent Manager to perform his or her functions as the Approved 
Independent Manager.  
Viva Energy’s obligations in relation to the Approved Independent Manager 
8.11. 
Without limiting its obligations in this Undertaking, Viva Energy must: 
(a) comply with and enforce the Approved Terms of Appointment of the Approved 
Independent Manager;  
(b) maintain and fund the Approved Independent Manager to carry out his or her 
functions, including:  
(i) 
indemnifying the Approved Independent Manager for any expenses, 
loss, claim or damage arising directly or indirectly from the 
performance by the Approved Independent Manager of his or her 
functions as the Approved Independent Manager except where such 
expenses, loss, claim or damage arises out of the gross negligence, 
fraud, misconduct or breach of duty by the Approved Independent 
Manager;  


14 
 
 
 
 
(ii) 
ensuring that the Approved Independent Manager is fully able to 
acquire and pay for sufficient and timely delivery of all goods and 
services (including from third parties) which the Approved 
Independent Manager considers are required by the Divestiture 
Business; and 
(iii) 
providing and paying for any external expertise, assistance or advice 
required by the Approved Independent Manager to perform his or her 
functions as the Approved Independent Manager; and 
(c) 
not interfere with the authority of, or otherwise hinder, the Approved 
Independent Manager’s ability to carry out his or her obligations as the 
Approved Independent Manager, including: 
(i) 
accepting (and directing its directors, contractors, managers, officers, 
employees and agents to accept) direction from the Approved 
Independent Manager as to the control, management, financing and 
operations of the Divestiture Business, and for the Divestiture 
Business to meet all legal, corporate, financial, accounting, taxation, 
audit and regulatory obligations;  
(ii) 
providing access to the facilities, sites or operations of the Divestiture 
Business required by the Approved Independent Manager; 
(iii) 
providing to the Approved Independent Manager any information or 
documents that they consider necessary for managing and operating 
the Divestiture Business or for reporting to or otherwise advising the 
ACCC; 
(iv) 
not requesting information or reports regarding the Divestiture 
Business from the personnel of the Divestiture Business except 
through the Approved Independent Manager; and 
(v) 
not appointing the Approved Independent Manager, or have any 
Agreements with the Approved Independent Manager, to utilise the 
Approved Independent Manager’s services for anything other than 
compliance with this Undertaking until at least 12 months after the 
Approved Independent Manager ceases to act in the role of the 
Approved Independent Manager. 
Resignation, revocation or termination of the Approved Independent Manager 
8.12. 
Viva Energy must immediately notify the ACCC in the event that the Approved 
Independent 
Manager 
resigns 
or 
otherwise 
stops 
acting 
as 
the       
Approved Independent Manager before the completion of the divestiture of the 
Divestiture Business.  
8.13. 
The ACCC may revoke an Approved Independent Manager’s status as the 
Approved Independent Manager if the ACCC becomes aware that any information 
provided to it was incorrect, inaccurate or misleading.  
8.14. 
The ACCC may approve any proposal by, or alternatively may direct Viva Energy 
to terminate the appointment of the Approved Independent Manager if in the 
ACCC's view the Approved Independent Manager acts inconsistently with the 
provisions of this Undertaking or the Approved Terms of Appointment.  
 


15 
 
 
 
 
9. 
Independent Audit  
Obligation to appoint an Approved Independent Auditor 
9.1. 
Viva Energy must appoint and maintain an Approved Independent Auditor to audit 
and report upon Viva Energy’s compliance with this Undertaking. 
Process for approving a Proposed Independent Auditor 
9.2. 
At least 15 Business Days before the Control Date, Viva Energy must provide the 
ACCC with a notice for a Proposed Independent Auditor in the form prescribed in 
Schedule 3 to this Undertaking (Proposed Independent Auditor Notice), 
including draft terms of appointment and a draft audit plan.  
9.3. 
The Approved Independent Auditor is to be appointed for a term of two years.  
9.4. 
Within 15 Business Days of the end of the Approved Independent Auditor’s term, 
Viva Energy must provide the ACCC with a new Proposed Independent Auditor 
Notice. A person who is, or who has been, the Independent Auditor is eligible for 
reappointment as the Independent Auditor.  
9.5. 
If clauses 9.18, 9.19 or 9.20 apply, Viva Energy must provide the ACCC with a 
Proposed Independent Auditor Notice within five Business Days after the relevant 
event occurs.  
9.6. 
The ACCC shall have the discretion to approve or reject in writing the Proposed 
Independent Auditor identified in the Proposed Independent Auditor Notice.  
9.7. 
Without limiting the ACCC’s discretion, in deciding whether to approve a Proposed 
Independent Auditor, the factors to which the ACCC may have regard include 
whether the:  
(a) 
person named in the Proposed Independent Auditor Notice or identified 
by the ACCC has the qualifications and experience necessary to carry out 
the functions of the Approved Independent Auditor;  
(b) 
person named in the Proposed Independent Auditor Notice or identified 
by the ACCC is sufficiently independent of Viva Energy;  
(c) 
draft terms of appointment and the draft audit plan are consistent with this 
Undertaking; and 
(d) 
draft terms of appointment and the draft audit plan are otherwise 
acceptable to the ACCC. 
Appointment of the Approved Independent Auditor 
9.8. 
After receiving a written notice from the ACCC of its approval of a Proposed 
Independent Auditor, the draft terms of appointment and draft audit plan, Viva 
Energy must by the Control Date: 
(a) appoint the person approved by the ACCC as the Approved Independent 
Auditor on the Approved Terms of Appointment; and 
(b) forward to the ACCC a copy of the executed Approved Terms of Appointment. 
 


16 
 
 
 
 
Failure to appoint 
9.9. 
If: 
(a) the Approved Independent Auditor has not been appointed by the Control 
Date;  
(b) the Approved Independent Auditor has not been appointed within 15 Business 
Days after the Approved Independent Auditor resigns or otherwise ceases to 
act as the Approved Independent Auditor pursuant to clause 9.18, 9.19, or 
9.20; or  
(c) 
the ACCC has not received a Proposed Independent Auditor Notice pursuant 
to clause 9.2 and 9.4;  
then clause 9.10 applies. 
9.10. 
If clause 9.9 applies, the ACCC at its absolute discretion may: 
(a) identify and approve a person as the Approved Independent Auditor, including 
approving the draft terms of appointment and draft audit plan; and/or 
(b) direct Viva Energy to appoint a person who the ACCC has deemed is an 
Approved Independent Auditor. 
Obligations and powers of the Approved Independent Auditor 
9.11. 
Viva Energy must procure that any proposed terms of appointment for the 
Approved Independent Auditor include obligations on the Approved Independent 
Auditor to:  
(a) maintain his or her independence from Viva Energy, apart from appointment 
to the role of Approved Independent Auditor, including not forming any 
relationship of the types described in paragraph 2.2(c) of Schedule 3 to this 
Undertaking with Viva Energy for the period of his or her appointment;  
(b) conduct compliance auditing according to the Approved Audit Plan; 
(c) 
where requested by the ACCC, assess the suitability of any Proposed 
Purchaser or potential purchaser of the Divestiture Business against the 
factors (as relevant) in clause 6.7; 
(d) provide the following reports directly to the ACCC: 
(i) 
a scheduled written Audit Report as described in clause 9.13;  
(ii) 
an immediate report of any issues that arise in relation to the 
performance of his or her functions as Approved Independent Auditor 
or in relation to compliance with this Undertaking by any person 
named in this Undertaking; and 
(iii) 
where requested by the ACCC, a report on the suitability of any 
Proposed Purchaser or potential purchaser of the Divestiture 
Business following an assessment under clause 9.11(c); and  


17 
 
 
 
 
(e) follow any direction given to him or her by the ACCC in relation to the 
performance of his or her functions as Approved Independent Auditor under 
this Undertaking. 
9.12. 
Viva Energy must procure that any proposed terms of appointment for the 
Approved Independent Auditor provide the Approved Independent Auditor with the 
authority to:  
(a) access the facilities, sites or operations of the Divestiture Business and Viva 
Energy's other businesses as required by the Approved Independent Auditor;  
(b) access any information or documents that the Approved Independent Auditor 
considers necessary for carrying out his or her functions as the Approved 
Independent Auditor or for reporting to or otherwise advising the ACCC; and 
(c) 
engage any external expertise, assistance or advice required by the Approved 
Independent Auditor to perform his or her functions as the Approved 
Independent Auditor.  
Compliance Audit  
9.13. 
The Approved Independent Auditor must conduct an audit and prepare a detailed 
report (Audit Report) that includes: 
(a) the Approved Independent Auditor’s procedures in conducting the audit, or 
any change to audit procedures and processes since the previous Audit 
Report; 
(b) a full audit of Viva Energy's compliance with this Undertaking;  
(c) 
identification of any areas of uncertainty or ambiguity in the Approved 
Independent Auditor’s interpretation of any obligations contained in this 
Undertaking; 
(d) all of the reasons for the conclusions reached in the Audit Report; 
(e) any qualifications made by the Approved Independent Auditor in forming his 
or her views;  
(f) 
any recommendations by the Approved Independent Auditor to improve: 
(i) 
the Approved Audit Plan; 
(ii) 
the integrity of the auditing process;  
(iii) 
Viva Energy's processes or reporting systems in relation to 
compliance with this Undertaking; and 
(iv) 
Viva Energy's compliance with this Undertaking; and 
(g) the implementation and outcome of any prior recommendations by the 
Approved Independent Auditor.  
9.14. 
The Approved Independent Auditor is to provide an Audit Report to the ACCC and 
Viva Energy at the following times:  


18 
 
 
 
 
(a) within 20 Business Days after the Control Date, at which time the Audit Report 
is to include the results of the initial audit and any recommended changes to 
the Approved Audit Plan, including the Approved Independent Auditor’s 
proposed procedures and processes for conducting the audit (Establishment 
Audit);  
(b) every month from the date of the Establishment Audit until one month after 
the divestiture of the Divestiture Business is completed; and 
(c) 
every three months after the date of provision of the last Audit Report pursuant 
to clause 9.14(b), until the ACCC confirms in writing to Viva Energy that it is 
satisfied that Viva Energy has fulfilled its obligations pursuant to this 
Undertaking. 
9.15. 
Viva Energy must implement any recommendations made by the Approved 
Independent Auditor in Audit Reports, and notify the ACCC of the implementation 
of the recommendations, within 10 Business Days after receiving the Audit Report 
or such other period as agreed in writing with the ACCC.  
9.16. 
Viva Energy must comply with any direction of the ACCC in relation to matters 
arising from the Audit Report within 10 Business Days after being so directed (or 
such other period as agreed in writing with the ACCC).  
Viva Energy's obligations in relation to the Approved Independent Auditor 
9.17. 
Without limiting its obligations in this Undertaking, Viva Energy must: 
(a) comply with and enforce the Approved Terms of Appointment for the 
Approved Independent Auditor;  
(b) maintain and fund the Approved Independent Auditor to carry out his or her 
functions including:  
(i) 
indemnifying the Approved Independent Auditor for any expenses, 
loss, claim or damage arising directly or indirectly from the 
performance by the Approved Independent Auditor of his or her 
functions as the Approved Independent Auditor except where such 
expenses, loss, claim or damage arises out of the gross negligence, 
fraud, misconduct or breach of duty by the Approved Independent 
Auditor; and 
(ii) 
providing and paying for any external expertise, assistance or advice 
required by the Approved Independent Auditor to perform his or her 
functions as the Approved Independent Auditor; and 
(c) 
not interfere with, or otherwise hinder, the Approved Independent Auditor’s 
ability to carry out his or her functions as the Approved Independent Auditor, 
including: 
(i) 
directing Viva Energy personnel, including directors, contractors, 
managers, officers, employees and agents, to act in accordance with 
this clause 9;  
(ii) 
providing access to the facilities, sites or operations of the Divestiture 
Business and Viva Energy's other businesses as required by the 
Approved Independent Auditor; 


19 
 
 
 
 
(iii) 
providing to the Approved Independent Auditor any information or 
documents that they consider necessary for carrying out his or her 
functions as the Approved Independent Auditor or for reporting to or 
otherwise advising the ACCC; 
(iv) 
not requesting any information relating to the compliance audit from 
the Approved Independent Auditor without such a request having 
been approved by the ACCC; and 
(v) 
not appointing the Approved Independent Auditor, or have any 
Agreements with the Approved Independent Auditor, to utilise the 
Approved Independent Auditor’s services for anything other than 
compliance with this Undertaking until at least 12 months after the 
Approved Independent Auditor ceases to act in the role of the 
Approved Independent Auditor. 
Resignation, revocation or termination of the Approved Independent Auditor  
9.18. 
Viva Energy must immediately notify the ACCC in the event that the Approved 
Independent Auditor resigns or otherwise stops acting as the Approved 
Independent Auditor.  
9.19. 
The ACCC may revoke an Approved Independent Auditor’s status as the Approved 
Independent Auditor if the ACCC becomes aware that any information provided to 
it in connection with the appointment of the Approved Independent Auditor was 
incorrect, inaccurate or misleading.  
9.20. 
The ACCC may approve, pursuant to clause 9.6, any proposal by, or alternatively 
may direct, Viva Energy to terminate the appointment of the Approved 
Independent Auditor if in the ACCC's view the Approved Independent Auditor acts 
inconsistently with the provisions of this Undertaking and/or the Approved Terms 
of Appointment or the Approved Independent Auditor fails to perform their role to 
an adequate standard. 
10. 
Failure to divest the Divestiture Business within Initial Sale 
Period 
Divestiture of the Unsold Business 
10.1. 
In the event that the divestiture of the Divestiture Business to an Approved 
Purchaser is not completed by the end of the Initial Sale Period, the Divestiture 
Business becomes an unsold business (Unsold Business), and the provisions of 
this clause 10 apply.  
Obligation to appoint an Approved Divestiture Agent 
10.2. 
From the end of the Initial Sale Period, Viva Energy must appoint and maintain an 
Approved Divestiture Agent to effect the divestiture of the Unsold Business. 
Process for approving a Proposed Divestiture Agent 
10.3. 
At least 15 Business Days prior to the end of the Initial Sale Period, if the divestiture 
of the Divestiture Business has not been completed, Viva Energy must provide the 
ACCC with a notice for a Proposed Divestiture Agent in the form of Schedule 3 to 
this Undertaking (Proposed Divestiture Agent Notice) including draft terms of 
appointment, a draft business sale agreement, and draft marketing and sale plan. 


20 
 
 
 
 
10.4. 
If clauses 10.14, 10.15, or 10.16 apply, Viva Energy must provide the ACCC with 
a Proposed Divestiture Agent Notice within five Business Days after the relevant 
event occurs. 
10.5. 
The ACCC shall have the discretion to approve or reject in writing the Proposed 
Divestiture Agent.  
10.6. 
Without limiting the ACCC’s discretion, in deciding whether to approve a Proposed 
Divestiture Agent, the factors to which the ACCC may have regard include whether 
the:  
(a) person named in Proposed Divestiture Agent Notice or identified by the ACCC 
has the qualifications and experience necessary to carry out the functions of 
the Approved Divestiture Agent;  
(b) person named in the Proposed Divestiture Agent Notice or identified by the 
ACCC is sufficiently independent of Viva Energy; 
(c) draft terms of appointment, draft business sale agreement and draft marketing 
and sale plan are consistent with this Undertaking; and 
(d) draft terms of appointment, draft business sale agreement and draft marketing 
and sale plan are otherwise acceptable to the ACCC. 
Appointment of the Approved Divestiture Agent 
10.7. 
After receiving written notice from the ACCC of its approval of the Proposed 
Divestiture Agent, the draft terms of appointment, draft business sale agreement 
and draft marketing and sale plan, Viva Energy must within two Business Days: 
(a) appoint the person approved by the ACCC as the Approved Divestiture Agent 
on the Approved Terms of Appointment; and 
(b) forward to the ACCC a copy of the executed Approved Terms of Appointment. 
Failure to appoint 
10.8. 
If: 
(a) the Approved Divestiture Agent has not been appointed within 10 Business 
Days after the Divestiture Business becomes an Unsold Business;  
(b) the Approved Divestiture Agent has not been appointed within 15 Business 
Days after the Approved Divestiture Agent resigns or otherwise ceases to act 
pursuant to clauses 10.14, 10.15 or 10.16; or  
(c) 
the ACCC has not received a Proposed Divestiture Agent Notice pursuant to 
clause 10.3 and 10.4; 
then clause 10.9 applies. 
10.9. 
If clause 10.8 applies, the ACCC may, at its absolute discretion:  
(a) identify and approve a person as the Approved Divestiture Agent, including 
approving the draft terms of appointment of the Approved Divestiture Agent, 
draft business sale agreement and draft marketing and sale plan; and/or 


21 
 
 
 
 
(b) direct Viva Energy to appoint a person who the ACCC has deemed is an 
Approved Divestiture Agent. 
 
Obligations and powers of the Approved Divestiture Agent 
10.10. Viva Energy must procure that any proposed terms of appointment for the 
Approved Divestiture Agent include obligations on the Approved Divestiture Agent 
to:  
(a) divest the Unsold Business only to an Approved Purchaser, at no minimum 
price;   
(b) maintain his or her independence from Viva Energy, apart from appointment 
to the role of Approved Divestiture Agent, including not form any relationship 
of the types described in paragraph 2.2(c) of Schedule 3 to this Undertaking 
with Viva Energy for the period of his or her appointment;  
(c) 
not use any confidential information gained through the divestiture of the 
Unsold Business other than for performing his or her functions as Approved 
Divestiture Agent; 
(d) follow the Approved Marketing and Sale Plan;  
(e) use his or her best endeavours to enter into a binding agreement for the 
divestiture of the Unsold Business as quickly as possible using the Approved 
Business Sale Agreement;  
(f) 
cooperate with the requests of any Approved Independent Manager or 
Approved Independent Auditor appointed pursuant to this Undertaking; 
(g) every 30 Business Days following appointment of the Approved Divestiture 
Agent, provide written reports directly to the ACCC which include: 
(i) 
information regarding the implementation of the Approved Business 
Sale Agreement and the Approved Marketing and Sale Plan including 
any previous changes approved by the ACCC; 
(ii) 
information regarding any suggested changes to any Approved 
Marketing and Sale Plan including any previous changes approved by 
the ACCC; 
(iii) an account and explanation of all disbursements, fees and charges 
incurred by the Approved Divestiture Agent in undertaking his or her 
duties by month and to the date of the report; 
(iv) a schedule of agreed fees of the Approved Divestiture Agent (including 
the fees of any adviser appointed under clause 10.11(d)); 
(v) 
the efforts made to sell the Unsold Business; 
(vi) the identity of any advisers engaged; 
(vii) the identity of any persons expressing interest in the Unsold Business; 
and 


22 
 
 
 
 
(viii) any other information required by the ACCC;  
(h) within 30 Business Days after the completion of the divestiture of the Unsold 
Business, provide a written report directly to the ACCC which includes a final 
accounting of: 
(i) 
any moneys derived from the divestiture of the Unsold Business; 
(ii) 
all disbursements, fees and charges incurred by the Approved 
Divestiture Agent in fulfilling his or her duties; and 
(iii) all agreed fees of the Approved Divestiture Agent (including the fees of 
any adviser appointed under clause 10.11(d)); 
(i) 
immediately inform the ACCC of: 
(i) 
any issues that arise in relation to the implementation of the Approved 
Business Sale Agreement and any Approved Marketing and Sale Plan; 
(ii) 
non-compliance with this Undertaking by any person named in this 
Undertaking; and 
(iii) any offers for the Unsold Business; 
(j) 
accept any offer for the Unsold Business upon instruction from Viva Energy 
given in accordance with clause 10.13(d); and 
(k) 
follow any direction given to him or her by the ACCC in relation to the 
performance of his or her functions as Approved Divestiture Agent pursuant 
to this Undertaking. 
10.11.  Viva Energy must procure that any proposed terms of appointment for the 
Approved Divestiture Agent contain an irrevocable grant of power of attorney 
conferring all necessary power and authority on the Approved Divestiture Agent to: 
(a) negotiate with purchasers to divest the Unsold Business on terms considered 
by the Approved Divestiture Agent in his or her sole discretion to be consistent 
with this Undertaking and the Approved Marketing and Sale Plan; 
(b) execute any agreements with the Approved Purchaser required pursuant to 
clause 6.6; 
(c) 
upon instruction pursuant to clause 10.13(d), complete the divestiture of the 
Unsold Business to the Approved Purchaser in accordance with the Approved 
Business Sale Agreement; and 
(d) engage any external expertise, assistance or advice required by the Approved 
Divestiture Agent to perform his or her functions as the Approved Divestiture 
Agent. 
10.12. Any irrevocable power of attorney granted pursuant to clause 10.11 will end upon 
resignation or termination of the Approved Divestiture Agent in accordance with 
clauses 10.14, 10.15, or 10.16, or in the event that the Unsold Business is divested 
in accordance with this Undertaking. 
Viva Energy's obligations in relation to the Approved Divestiture Agent 


23 
 
 
 
 
10.13. Without limiting its obligations in this Undertaking, Viva Energy must from the end 
of the Initial Sale Period: 
(a) comply with and enforce the Approved Terms of Appointment for the 
Approved Divestiture Agent;  
(b) maintain and fund the Approved Divestiture Agent to carry out his or her 
functions; including:  
(i) 
indemnifying the Approved Divestiture Agent for any expenses, loss, 
claim or damage arising directly or indirectly from the performance by 
the Approved Divestiture Agent of his or her functions as the Approved 
Divestiture Agent except where such expenses, loss, claim or damage 
arises out of the gross negligence, fraud, misconduct or breach of duty 
by the Approved Divestiture Agent;  
(ii) 
providing and paying for any external expertise, assistance or advice 
required by the Approved Divestiture Agent to perform his or her 
functions as the Approved Divestiture Agent;  
(iii) paying such fees as are agreed between the Approved Divestiture 
Agent and Viva Energy (but not fees contingent on the price to be 
obtained for the Unsold Business); and 
(iv) if an agreement as to fees cannot be reached between the Approved 
Divestiture Agent and Viva Energy within 15 Business Days after the 
end of the Initial Sale Period, Viva Energy agrees to pay such fees as 
are directed by the ACCC; 
(c) 
not interfere with, or otherwise hinder, the Approved Divestiture Agent’s ability 
to carry out his or her functions as the Approved Divestiture Agent, including: 
(i) 
directing all Relevant Personnel, to act in accordance with this 
clause 10;  
(ii) 
providing access to the facilities, sites or operations of the Unsold 
Business as required by the Approved Divestiture Agent; and 
(iii) providing to the Approved Divestiture Agent any information, documents 
or other assistance that they consider necessary for carrying out his or 
her functions as the Approved Divestiture Agent or for reporting to or 
otherwise advising the ACCC; 
(d) within three Business Days after receiving notice from the ACCC pursuant to 
clause 6.6, Viva Energy must instruct the Approved Divestiture Agent to 
complete the divestiture of the Unsold Business to the Approved Purchaser 
in accordance with the documents approved by the ACCC pursuant to clause 
6.6; and 
(e) other than in accordance with clause 10.13(d) of this Undertaking, not instruct 
the Approved Divestiture Agent to divest the Unsold Business. 
Resignation, revocation or termination of the Approved Divestiture Agent 
10.14. Viva Energy must immediately notify the ACCC in the event that an Approved 
Divestiture Agent resigns or otherwise stops acting as an Approved Divestiture 
Agent before the completion of the divestiture of the Unsold Business.  


24 
 
 
 
 
10.15. The ACCC may revoke an Approved Divestiture Agent’s status as the Approved 
Divestiture Agent if the ACCC becomes aware that any information provided to it 
was incorrect, inaccurate or misleading.  
10.16. The ACCC may approve any proposal by, or alternatively may direct, Viva Energy 
to terminate an Approved Divestiture Agent if in the ACCC's view the Approved 
Divestiture Agent acts inconsistently with the provisions of this Undertaking or the 
Approved Terms of Appointment. 
11. 
Notification of key dates and ACCC requests for information 
11.1. 
Viva Energy must notify the ACCC and each Undertaking Appointment in writing 
of:   
(a) the anticipated date of the Control Date, at least five Business Days before 
that date;  
(b) the anticipated date of the completion of the divestiture of the Divestiture 
Business or Unsold Business (as applicable), at least five Business Days 
before that date; 
(c) 
the occurrence of the Control Date, within one Business Day of that date; and 
(d) the occurrence of the completion of the divestiture of the Divestiture Business 
or Unsold Business (as applicable), within one Business Day of that date. 
11.2. 
The ACCC may direct Viva Energy in respect of its compliance with this 
Undertaking to, and Viva Energy must: 
(a) furnish information to the ACCC in the time and in the form requested by the 
ACCC; 
(b) produce documents and materials to the ACCC within Viva Energy's custody, 
power or control in the time and in the form requested by the ACCC; and/or 
(c) 
attend the ACCC at a time and place appointed by the ACCC to answer any 
questions the ACCC (its Commissioners, its staff or its agents) may have. 
11.3. 
Any direction made by the ACCC under clause 11.2 will be notified to Viva Energy, 
in accordance with clause 18.2. 
11.4. 
In respect of Viva Energy's compliance with this Undertaking or an Undertaking 
Appointment’s compliance with its Approved Terms of Appointment, the ACCC 
may request any Undertaking Appointment to: 
(a) furnish information to the ACCC in the time and in the form requested by the 
ACCC; 
(b) produce documents and materials to the ACCC within the Undertaking 
Appointment's custody, power or control in the time and in the form requested 
by the ACCC; and/or  
(c) 
attend the ACCC at a time and place appointed by the ACCC to answer any 
questions the ACCC (its Commissioners, its staff or its agents) may have. 


25 
 
 
 
 
11.5. 
Viva Energy will use its best endeavours to ensure that an Undertaking 
Appointment complies with any request from the ACCC in accordance with clause 
11.4. 
11.6. 
Information furnished, documents and material produced or information given in 
response to any request or direction from the ACCC under this clause 11 may be 
used by the ACCC for any purpose consistent with the exercise of its statutory 
duties. 
11.7. 
The ACCC may in its discretion:  
(a) advise any Undertaking Appointment of any request made by it under this 
clause 11; and/or 
(b) provide copies to any Undertaking Appointment of any information furnished, 
documents and material produced or information given to it under this clause 
11.  
11.8. 
Nothing in this clause 11 requires the provision of information or documents in 
respect of which Viva Energy has a claim of legal professional or other privilege. 
12. 
Disclosure of this Undertaking 
12.1. 
Viva Energy and the ACCC agree that Confidential Schedule 5 will remain 
confidential until after the completion of the divestiture of the Divestiture Business 
or Unsold Business.  
12.2. 
Viva Energy acknowledges that the ACCC may provide each Undertaking 
Appointment with a copy of this Undertaking which includes unredacted versions 
of Confidential Schedule 5 and Confidential Schedule 7. 
12.3. 
Viva Energy acknowledges that the ACCC may, subject to clause 12.1:  
(a) make this Undertaking publicly available;  
(b) publish this Undertaking on its Public Section 87B Undertakings Register and 
Public Mergers Register; and 
(c) 
from time to time publicly refer to this Undertaking.  
12.4. 
Nothing in clause 12.1 or the confidential parts of this Undertaking referred to in 
clause 12.1 prevents the ACCC from disclosing such information as is: 
(a) required by law; 
(b) permitted by section 155AAA of the Act; 
(c) 
necessary for the purpose of enforcement action under section 87B of the Act; 
or 
(d) necessary for the purpose of making such market inquiries as the ACCC 
thinks fit to assess the impact on competition arising in connection with this 
Undertaking. 
12.5. 
Nothing in clause 12.1 or the confidential parts of this Undertaking referred to in 
clause 12.1 prevents the ACCC from using the information contained in this 
Undertaking for any purpose consistent with its statutory functions and powers. 


26 
 
 
 
 
13. 
Obligation to procure 
13.1. 
Where the performance of an obligation under this Undertaking requires a Related 
Body Corporate of Viva Energy to take or refrain from taking some action, Viva 
Energy will procure that Related Body Corporate to take or refrain from taking that 
action.   
14. 
No Derogation 
14.1. 
This Undertaking does not prevent the ACCC from taking enforcement action at 
any time whether during or after the period of this Undertaking in respect of any 
breach by Viva Energy of any term of this Undertaking. 
14.2. 
Nothing in this Undertaking is intended to restrict the right of the ACCC to take 
action under the Act for penalties or other remedies in the event that Viva Energy 
does not fully implement and/or perform its obligations under this Undertaking or 
in any other event where the ACCC decides to take action under the Act for 
penalties or other remedies. 
15. 
Change of Control  
15.1. 
In the event that a Change of Control is reasonably expected to occur, Viva Energy 
must:  
(a) notify the ACCC of this expectation as soon as practicable; and 
(b) only implement a Change of Control to another person or entity if that person 
or entity has given a section 87B undertaking to the ACCC that requires it to 
comply with the same obligations as are imposed on Viva Energy pursuant to 
this Undertaking, or on terms that are otherwise acceptable to the ACCC, 
unless the ACCC has notified Viva Energy in writing that a section 87B 
undertaking under this clause is not required. 
16. 
Costs 
16.1. 
Viva Energy must pay all of its own costs incurred in relation to this Undertaking. 
17. 
Resolving Inconsistencies 
17.1. 
To the extent there are inconsistencies between this Undertaking and the 
Approved Sale and Purchase Agreement as regards to Viva Energy’s obligations 
pursuant to this Undertaking, this Undertaking prevails. 
18. 
Notices 
Giving Notices 
18.1. 
Any notice or communication to the ACCC pursuant to this Undertaking must be 
sent to: 
Email address:  
mergers@accc.gov.au  
 
Attention: Executive General Manager 
 
Merger, Exemptions & Digital Division 
With a copy sent to: 
mergersru@accc.gov.au 


27 
 
 
 
 
 
Attention: Director, Remedies Unit 
 
Policy, Coordination & Remedies Branch 
 
Merger, Exemptions & Digital Division 
18.2. 
Any notice or communication to Viva Energy pursuant to this Undertaking must be 
sent to:  
Name: Legal Department, Viva Energy 
 
Address: Level 16/720 Bourke Street, Docklands VIC 3008 
 
 
Email Address: stuart.nicol@vivaenergy.com.au  
Attention: Stuart Nicol, Head of Legal and Internal Audit 
With a copy sent to: 
Name:  Clifford Chance  
Address: Level 24, Brookfield Place, 10 Carrington Street, NSW 2000 
 
Email Address: Mark.Grime@cliffordchance.com; 
Elizabeth.Richmond@cliffordchance.com 
Attention: Mark Grime / Elizabeth Richmond 
18.3. 
If sent by post, notices are taken to be received three Business Days after posting 
(or seven Business Days after posting if sent to or from a place outside Australia). 
18.4. 
If sent by email, notices are taken to be received at the time shown in the email as 
the time the email was sent. 
 
 
Change of contact details 
18.5. 
Viva Energy must notify the ACCC of a change to its contact details within three 
Business Days.   
18.6. 
Any notice or communication will be sent to the most recently advised contact 
details and subject to clauses 18.3 and 18.4, will be taken to be received.  
19. 
Defined terms and interpretation  
Definitions in the Dictionary 
19.1. 
 A term or expression starting with a capital letter: 
(a) which is defined in the Dictionary in Part 1 of Schedule 1 (Dictionary), has the 
meaning given to it in the Dictionary; or 
(b) which is defined in the Corporations Act, but is not defined in the Dictionary, 
has the meaning given to it in the Corporations Act. 
Interpretation 
19.2. 
Part 2 of Schedule 1 (Interpretation) sets out rules of interpretation for this 
Undertaking. 


29 
 
 
 
 
Schedule 1 – Dictionary and interpretation  
1. 
Dictionary 
ACCC means the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission. 
Act means the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth). 
Agreements means any contract, arrangement or understanding, including any contract, 
arrangement or understanding to renew, amend, vary or extend any contract, arrangement 
or understanding.  
Approved Audit Plan means the plan approved by the ACCC in accordance with the 
terms of this Undertaking, by which the Approved Independent Auditor will audit and report 
upon compliance with this Undertaking. 
Approved Business Sale Agreement means the standard form contract for the 
divestiture of the Unsold Business which has been approved by the ACCC in accordance 
with the terms of this Undertaking.  
Approved Divestiture Agent means the person approved by the ACCC and appointed 
under clause 10 of this Undertaking. 
Approved Independent Auditor means the person approved by the ACCC and appointed 
under clause 9 of this Undertaking. 
Approved Independent Manager means the person approved by the ACCC and 
appointed under clause 8 of this Undertaking. 
Approved Marketing and Sale Plan means the plan approved by the ACCC in 
accordance with the terms of this Undertaking, by which the Approved Divestiture Agent 
will market and effect the divestiture of the Unsold Business. 
Approved Purchaser means the person approved by the ACCC under clause 6 of this 
Undertaking. 
Approved Sale and Purchase Agreement means the contract approved by the ACCC in 
accordance with the terms of this Undertaking, by which the Viva Energy will divest the 
Divestiture Business to the Approved Purchaser and Approved Purchaser will acquire the 
Divestiture Business from Viva Energy. 
Approved Separation and Management Plan means the plan approved by the ACCC in 
accordance with the terms of this Undertaking, by which the Approved Independent 
Manager will: 
(a) 
separate the Divestiture Business from any business to be retained by Viva 
Energy; and  
 
(b) 
manage and operate the Divestiture Business independently of Viva Energy and 
any retained business. 
Approved Transitional Supply Agreement means any agreement, for the supply of 
goods or services (other than Technical Assistance) by Viva Energy to the Approved 
Purchaser, approved by the ACCC in accordance with the terms of this Undertaking. 


30 
 
 
 
 
Approved Transitional Technical Assistance Agreement means any agreement, for 
the supply of Technical Assistance by Viva Energy to the Approved Purchaser, approved 
by the ACCC in accordance with the terms of this Undertaking.  
Approved Terms of Appointment means the terms of appointment for the Approved 
Independent Manager, Approved Independent Auditor or Approved Divestiture Agent, as 
applicable, as approved by the ACCC in accordance with the terms of this Undertaking. 
Associated Entity has the meaning given by section 50AAA of the Corporations Act. 
Audit Report has the meaning given to it in clause 9.13 of this Undertaking. 
Business Day means a day other than a Saturday or Sunday on which banks are open 
for business generally in the Australian Capital Territory.  
Change of Control means: 
(a) 
the assignment or other transfer of the legal or beneficial ownership of some or 
all of the share capital of Viva Energy to any other person or entity that may 
impact compliance with this Undertaking in its entirety; or 
 
(b) 
the sale or transfer of any assets necessary, or which may be necessary, to 
enable Viva Energy to continue to comply with this Undertaking in its entirety. 
Coles means Coles Group Limited ACN 004 089 936 of 800 Toorak Road, Hawthorn East 
VIC 3123. 
Commencement Date means the date described in clause 3.1 of this Undertaking. 
Control Date means the date on which the Proposed Acquisition is completed.  
Consents means any Government Consents or Third Party Consents. 
Corporations Act means the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth). 
Divestiture Business has the meaning given to it in clause 2.7 and means the items 
described in Schedule 4 to this Undertaking. 
Divestiture Site means each individual site listed in Schedule 4 to this Undertaking.  
Entities Connected has the meaning given by section 64B of the Corporations Act. 
Establishment Audit has the meaning given to it in clause 9.14(a) of this Undertaking. 
Government Consents means any consents from any government agency required for 
the assignment, novation, sale, sub-licensing or transfer of any assets, licences, permits, 
approval or contracts required for the operation of the Divestiture Business. 
Holding Company has the meaning given by section 9 of the Corporations Act.  
Initial Sale Period is defined in Confidential Schedule 5 to this Undertaking. 
Material Change means any change to the structure, attributes, extent or operations of 
the Divestiture Business or product or service sold by a Divestiture Business that may 
affect, or impact on, the competitiveness of the Divestiture Business. 


31 
 
 
 
 
Material Contract means any Agreement that is elected by the Proposed Purchaser as 
being reasonably necessary for the operation of the Divestiture Business. 
Proposed Acquisition is defined in clause 2 of this Undertaking. 
Proposed Divestiture Agent means a person named in a Proposed Divestiture Notice. 
Proposed Divestiture Agent Notice has the meaning given to it in clause 10.3 of this 
Undertaking. 
Proposed Independent Auditor means a person named in a Proposed Independent 
Auditor Notice. 
Proposed Independent Auditor Notice has the meaning given to it in clause 9.2 of this 
Undertaking. 
Proposed Independent Manager means a person named in a Proposed Independent 
Manager Notice. 
Proposed Independent Manager Notice has the meaning given to it in clause 8.2 of this 
Undertaking. 
Proposed Purchaser means a person named in a Proposed Purchaser Notice. 
Proposed Purchaser Notice has the meaning given to it in clause 6.2 of this Undertaking.  
Proposed Undertaking Appointment means a Proposed Independent Manager, 
Proposed Independent Auditor or Proposed Divestiture Agent.  
Public Mergers Register means the ACCC’s public register of merger clearances, 
available at www.accc.gov.au.   
Public Section 87B Undertakings Register means the ACCC’s public register of section 
87B undertakings, available at www.accc.gov.au.  
Related Bodies Corporate has the meaning given to it by section 50 of the Corporations 
Act. 
Related Entities has the meaning given to it by section 9 of the Corporations Act. 
Related Parties has the meaning given to it by section 228 of the Corporations Act. 
Relevant Personnel means any director, contractor, manager, officer, employee or agent 
of Viva Energy who is involved in, or has the ability to influence decision making in respect 
of, the retail fuel business and/or operations at the respective sites that form part of the 
Divestiture Business, including persons occupying the positions (or occupying a position 
within a team) identified in Schedule 8. 
Shell means Shell Brand International AG, a company incorporated in Switzerland 
(registered number CH-110.324.462) and having its registered office at Baarermatte, CH 
6340 Baar, Switzerland. 
Subsidiary has the meaning given by section 9 of the Corporations Act. 
Technical Assistance includes advising on technical knowledge documentation, 
supporting the Approved Purchaser on acquiring specific assets necessary for the ongoing 
conduct of the Divestiture Business, providing staff with suitable experience and skills to 


32 
 
 
 
 
assist and/or advice on technical issues, assisting in training for the Approved Purchaser’s 
staff, and providing guidance on regulatory and legal aspects relating to the transfer of or 
application for licences.  
Third Party Consents means any Consent from any entity that is not a government 
agency required for the assignment, novation, sale, sub-licensing or transfer of any assets, 
leases, licences, permits, approval or contracts required for the operation of the Divestiture 
Business. 
Transferred Personnel has the meaning given to it in clause 5.7 of this Undertaking. 
Undertaking is a reference to all provisions of this document, including its schedules and 
as varied from time to time under section 87B of the Act. 
Undertaking Appointment means the Approved Independent Manager, the Approved 
Independent Auditor or Approved Divestiture Agent, as applicable. 
Undertaking Signatories has the meaning given to it in clause 1.1 of this Undertaking. 
Unsold Business has the meaning given to it in clause 10.1 of this Undertaking. 
 
2. 
Interpretation 
2.1 
In the interpretation of this Undertaking, the following provisions apply unless the 
context otherwise requires: 
(a) a reference to this Undertaking includes all of the provisions of this document 
including its schedules; 
(b) headings are inserted for convenience only and do not affect the interpretation 
of this Undertaking;  
(c) if the day on which any act, matter or thing is to be done under this Undertaking 
is not a Business Day, the act, matter or thing must be done on the next 
Business Day;  
(d) a reference in this Undertaking to any law, legislation or legislative provision 
includes any statutory modification, amendment or re-enactment, and any 
subordinate legislation or regulations issued under that legislation or 
legislative provision;  
(e) a reference in this Undertaking to any company includes its Related Bodies 
Corporate; 
(f) a reference in this Undertaking to any agreement or document is to that 
agreement or document as amended, novated, supplemented or replaced; 
(g) a reference to a clause, part, schedule or attachment is a reference to a 
clause, part, schedule or attachment of or to this Undertaking; 
(h) an expression importing a natural person includes any company, trust, 
partnership, joint venture, association, body corporate or governmental 
agency; 
(i) where a word or phrase is given a defined meaning, another part of speech or 
other grammatical form in respect of that word or phrase has a corresponding 
meaning; 


33 
 
 
 
 
(j) a word which denotes the singular also denotes the plural, a word which 
denotes the plural also denotes the singular. 
(k) a reference to the words 'such as', 'including', 'particularly' and similar 
expressions is to be construed without limitation; 
(l) a construction that would promote the purpose - or object - underlying the 
Undertaking (whether expressly stated or not) will be preferred to a 
construction that would not promote that purpose or object; 
(m) material not forming part of this Undertaking may be considered to: 
(i) confirm the meaning of a clause is the ordinary meaning conveyed by the 
text of the clause, taking into account its context in the Undertaking and 
the competition concerns intended to be addressed by the Undertaking 
and the clause in question; or 
(ii) determine the meaning of the clause when the ordinary meaning 
conveyed by the text of the clause, taking into account its context in the 
Undertaking and the purpose or object underlying the Undertaking, leads 
to a result that does not promote the purpose or object underlying the 
Undertaking; 
(n) in determining whether consideration should be given to any material in 
accordance with paragraph (m), or in considering any weight to be given to 
any such material, regard must be had, in addition to any other relevant 
matters, to the: 
(i) effect that reliance on the ordinary meaning conveyed by the text of the 
clause would, have (taking into account its context in the Undertaking and 
whether that meaning promotes the purpose or object of the Undertaking); 
and 
(ii) need to ensure that the result of the Undertaking is to completely address 
any ACCC competition concerns; 
(o) the ACCC may authorise the ACCC Mergers Review Committee, a member 
of the ACCC or a member of the ACCC staff, to exercise a decision making 
function under this Undertaking on its behalf and that authorisation may be 
subject to any conditions which the ACCC may impose; 
(p) in performing its obligations under this Undertaking, Viva Energy will do 
everything reasonably within its power to ensure that its performance of those 
obligations is done in a manner which is consistent with promoting the purpose 
and object of this Undertaking; 
(q) a reference to: 
(i) a thing (including, but not limited to, a chose in action or other right) 
includes a part of that thing; 
(ii) a party includes its successors and permitted assigns; and 
(iii) a monetary amount is in Australian dollars. 
 
 


34 
 
 
 
 
Schedule 2 – Proposed Purchaser Notice Form 
 
This form sets out the information required by the ACCC in relation to a Proposed 
Purchaser. 
 
Please note that it is an offence under s137.1 of the Criminal Code Act 1995 (Cth) to give 
information to a Commonwealth entity knowing that the information is false or misleading 
or omits any matter or thing without which the information is misleading. 
 
1. 
Method of Delivery to the ACCC 
The completed form with requested documents attached should be provided to the ACCC 
using the following method: 
Email  
Subject line:  
Proposed Purchaser Notice – Re: Undertaking given by Viva Energy 
Group Limited ACN 626 661 032 
 
 
 
Address: 
mergers@accc.gov.au 
Attention: 
Executive General Manager – Merger, Exemptions & Digital Division  
 
With an email copy sent to: 
Address:  
mergersru@accc.gov.au 
Attention:  
Director, Remedies Unit - Policy, Coordination & Remedies Branch, 
Merger, Exemptions & Digital Division  
2. 
Information Required 
The ACCC requires the following information in order to assess a Proposed Purchaser. 
2.1 
Proposed Purchaser details: 
(a) Name of the Proposed Purchaser; 
(b) Address; 
(c) 
Contact name; 
(d) Telephone number; and 
(e) Other contact details. 
2.2 
A submission containing the following information: 
(a) a description of the business carried on by the Proposed Purchaser including 
the locations in which the Proposed Purchaser carries on its business; 
(b) details of the Proposed Purchaser’s experience in the relevant market(s); 
(c) 
the names of the owner(s) and the director(s) of the Proposed Purchaser;  


35 
 
 
 
 
(d) details of any of the following types of relationships between Viva Energy and 
the Proposed Purchaser or confirmation that no such relationship exists 
whether within Australia or outside of Australia: 
(i) 
Viva Energy and the Proposed Purchaser are Associated Entities;  
(ii) 
Viva Energy is an Entity Connected with the Proposed Purchaser; 
(iii) 
the Proposed Purchaser is an Entity Connected with Viva Energy; 
(iv) 
Viva Energy and the Proposed Purchaser are Related Entities; 
(v) 
Viva Energy and the Proposed Purchaser are Related Parties; 
(vi) 
any Related Party, Related Entity or Entity Connected with Viva 
Energy is a Related Party, Related Entity or Entity Connected with the 
Proposed Purchaser; 
(vii) 
Viva Energy and the Proposed Purchaser have a contractual 
relationship or had one within the past three years, other than those 
attached to this form; 
(viii) the Proposed Purchaser is a supplier of Viva Energy or has been in 
the past three years; 
(ix) 
Viva Energy is a supplier of the Proposed Purchaser or has been in 
the past three years; and 
(x) 
any other relationship between Viva Energy and the Proposed 
Purchaser that allows one to affect the business decisions of the 
other; and 
(e) a section addressing the following factors, including any information adverse 
to the Proposed Purchaser, in the power, possession or control of Viva 
Energy: 
(i) 
whether the draft sale and purchase agreement is consistent with this 
Undertaking;  
(ii) 
whether the Proposed Purchaser will complete the transaction as 
contemplated by the draft sale and purchase agreement;  
(iii) 
whether the Proposed Purchaser is of good financial standing;  
(iv) 
whether the Proposed Purchaser has an intention to maintain and 
operate the Divestiture Business as a going concern; 
(v) 
whether the Proposed Purchaser is able to conduct the Divestiture 
Business effectively;  
(vi) 
whether the divestiture of the Divestiture Business to the Proposed 
Purchaser will address any competition concerns of the ACCC, 
including any relationships (including but not limited to shareholding 
interests, other proprietary interests, contracts, arrangements or 
understandings) between the Proposed Purchaser and other entities 
in a relevant market, and the likely long-term viability and 


36 
 
 
 
 
competitiveness of the Divestiture Business under the ownership of 
the Proposed Purchaser; and 
(vii) 
any other matters that may affect the Proposed Purchaser’s capacity 
or ability to acquire or operate the Divestiture Business, such as 
outstanding legal action or disputes. 
2.3 
Please also attach to this form: 
(a) the finalised draft of the sale and purchase agreement for approval by the 
ACCC in accordance with this Undertaking; 
(b) the finalised draft of any transitional technical assistance agreement for 
approval by the ACCC in accordance with this Undertaking; 
(c) 
the finalised draft of any transitional supply agreement for approval by the 
ACCC in accordance with this Undertaking; and 
(d) any documents required to support the information provided by Viva Energy 
pursuant to this form. 


37 
 
 
 
 
Schedule 3 – Proposed Undertaking Appointment Form 
 
This form sets out the information required by the ACCC in relation to proposed 
appointment of the following positions under the Undertaking:  
 
• 
Proposed Independent Manager; 
• 
Proposed Independent Auditor; or 
• 
Proposed Divestiture Agent. 
 
(the Undertaking Appointment) 
 
This form is to be used for each of the above Undertaking appointments. 
 
 
Please note that it is an offence under s137.1 of the Criminal Code Act 1995 (Cth) to give 
information to a Commonwealth entity knowing that the information is false or misleading 
or omits any matter or thing without which the information is misleading. 
 
1. 
Method of Delivery to the ACCC 
The completed form with requested documents attached may be provided to the ACCC 
using the following method: 
Email  
Subject line:  
Proposed 
[only 
include 
relevant 
Undertaking 
Appointment 
i.e. 
Independent Manager / Independent Auditor / Divestiture Agent] Notice – 
[insert name of undertaking] 
Address: 
mergers@accc.gov.au 
Attention: 
Executive General Manager – Mergers, Exemptions & Digital Division 
 
With an email copy sent to: 
Address:  
mergersru@accc.gov.au 
Attention:  
Director, Remedies Unit - Policy, Coordination & Remedies Branch, 
Mergers, Exemptions & Digital Division 
2. 
Information Required 
The ACCC requires the following information in order to assess a proposed Independent 
Manager, Independent Auditor or Divestiture Agent (i.e. the relevant Undertaking 
Appointment). 
2.1 
Proposed Undertaking Appointment details: 
(a) the name of the Proposed Undertaking Appointment; and 
(b) the name of the proposed Undertaking Appointment’s employer and contact 
details including: 
(i) 
address; 
(ii) 
contact name; 


38 
 
 
 
 
(iii) 
telephone number; and 
(iv) 
other contact details. 
2.2 
A submission containing the following information: 
(a) details of the Undertaking Appointment’s qualifications and experience 
relevant to his or her proposed role pursuant to the Undertaking; 
(b) the names of the owner(s) and the director(s) of the Undertaking 
Appointment’s employer; and 
(c) 
details of any of the following types of relationships between Viva Energy and 
the Undertaking Appointment or the Undertaking Appointment’s employer or 
confirmation that no such relationship exists whether within Australia or 
outside of Australia: 
(i) 
Viva Energy and the Undertaking Appointment’s employer are 
Associated Entities; 
(ii) 
Viva Energy is an Entity Connected with the Undertaking 
Appointment’s employer; 
(iii) 
The Undertaking Appointment’s employer is an Entity Connected with 
Viva Energy; 
(iv) 
Viva Energy and the Undertaking Appointment’s employer are 
Related Entities; 
(v) 
Viva Energy and the Undertaking Appointment’s employer are 
Related Parties; 
(vi) 
any Related Party, Related Entity or Entity Connected with Viva 
Energy is a Related Party, Related Entity or Entity Connected with the 
Undertaking Appointment; 
(vii) 
Viva Energy and the Undertaking Appointment or the Undertaking 
Appointment’s employer have a contractual relationship or had one 
within the past three years, other than those attached to this form; 
(viii) the Undertaking Appointment’s employer is a supplier of Viva Energy 
or has been in the past three years; 
(ix) 
Viva Energy is a supplier of the Undertaking Appointment’s employer 
or has been in the past three years;  
(x) 
any other relationship between Viva Energy and the Undertaking 
Appointment or the Undertaking Appointment’s employer that allows 
one to affect the business decisions of the other; and 
(xi) 
Details of any existing or past contractual relationships between the 
Undertaking Appointment or the Undertaking Appointment’s employer 
and the ACCC within the past three years. 
2.3 
A document outlining the terms of appointment for the proposed Undertaking 
Appointment. This should identify the basis on which fees will be paid, including 
disclosure of any proposed performance based fees.  


39 
 
 
 
 
3. 
Specific Information required for Proposed Undertaking 
Appointments 
The ACCC requires the below information in relation to the relevant Undertaking 
Appointment.  
Proposed Independent Auditor 
3.1 
A finalised draft audit plan for the Divestiture Business, in an editable format, drafted 
by the Proposed Independent Auditor and outlining (to the extent possible) the 
Proposed Independent Auditor’s plans regarding the Establishment Audit and the 
Audit Report. 
Proposed Divestiture Agent 
3.2 
The finalised draft business sale agreement drafted by the Proposed Divestiture 
Agent in consultation with Viva Energy, in an editable format. The draft business 
sale agreement is to provide for the divestiture of the Unsold Business. 
3.3 
The Proposed Divestiture Agent’s draft marketing and sale plan for the Unsold 
Business, in an editable format. 
Proposed Independent Manager  
3.4 
The finalised draft separation and management plan for the Divestiture Business, in 
an editable format, detailing the measures and timing to be implemented by Viva 
Energy and the Approved Independent Manager in order to fulfil Viva Energy's and 
the Approved Independent Manager’s obligations pursuant to this Undertaking. This 
plan is to be drafted by the Proposed Independent Manager in consultation with Viva 
Energy to achieve the objectives of the Undertaking including: 
(a) the intended mode of operation of the Divestiture Business until completion 
of its divestiture; 
 
(b) separation measures to ensure the Divestiture Business is operated in a 
manner which is financially and operationally separate from Viva Energy, 
including the;  
(i) 
separation of the books and records of the Divestiture Business from 
those of Viva Energy;  
(ii) 
severance of the Divestiture Business’s participation in any private 
shared information technology networks, to the extent possible 
without compromising the viability of the Divestiture Business; 
(iii) 
implementation of specific electronic, information and physical 
security measures to maintain the confidentiality of any competitively 
sensitive information of the Divestiture Business; and 
(iv) 
severance of arrangements to share personnel and plant between the 
Divestiture Business and any businesses to be retained by Viva 
Energy, to the extent possible without compromising the viability of 
the Divestiture Business; 


40 
 
 
 
 
(c) 
details of contracts for the provision of goods or services to the Divestiture 
Business which will expire after the completion of the divestiture of the 
Divestiture Business to the Approved Purchaser and the actions which will be 
taken to ensure they are replaced, renewed and/or renegotiated on 
commercial terms favourable to the Divestiture Business;  
(d) personnel planning to maintain appropriate personnel levels and ensure that 
the Divestiture Business has access to all personnel necessary to operate the 
Divestiture Business;  
(e) any Material Changes to the Divestiture Business required in order to fulfil 
Viva Energy's and the Approved Independent Manager’s obligations pursuant 
to the Undertaking; and 
(f) 
the cooperation required from the Approved Independent Manager with Viva 
Energy in relation to the divestiture of the Divestiture Business, including: 
(i) 
the activities to be conducted by the Approved Independent Manager 
that are necessary for the effective operation of the Divestiture 
Business, having regard to the nature of the Divestiture Business 
(including the extent to which the Divestiture Business already has a 
management structure in place prior to the proposed acquisition that 
will be retained during the hold separate period);   
(ii) 
the method by which due diligence information, site visits and 
personnel interviews by and to prospective purchasers of the 
Divestiture Business will be managed;  
(iii) 
the method by which the Approved Independent Manager and Viva 
Energy will preserve the confidentiality of the Divestiture Business’s 
competitively sensitive information from Viva Energy and its advisers 
throughout this process; and 
(iv) 
a protocol whereby the Approved Independent Manager can provide 
any information requested by Viva Energy without disclosing the 
details of the Divestiture Business’s competitively sensitive 
information to Viva Energy. 
 


42 
 
 
 
 
 
2. Wet and dry stock 
 
Viva Energy will transfer all fuel and convenience shop stock (except gift cards, 
newsagency products, telecommunications products, and Coles/Coles Express/Shell 
branded products) for each Divestiture Site, that is located at a Divestiture Site as at 
completion. 
 
3. Plant and equipment 
 
Viva Energy will transfer all plant and equipment (including the interest in any fuel 
equipment owned by Viva Energy at the nominated sites) in working condition to allow the 
relevant business to operate from completion. 
 
4. Employees 
At the option of the Approved Purchaser, Viva Energy must transfer to the Approved 
Purchaser: 
(a) 
all employees; and 
(b) 
all service providers under a contract for service; 
who are, in the view of the Approved Purchaser, required for the Approved Purchaser 
to maintain, operate or conduct effectively the Divestiture Business and who consent 
to the transfer of their employment or contract for service to the Approved Purchaser. 
5. All cash in tills or otherwise on premises but excluding cash in third party-owned 
ATMs  
 
All cash on site will be transferred, expect for cash in third-party owned ATMs.  
 
6. Licenses and permits 
 
All business authorisations (to the extent transferrable) held by Viva Energy that relate 
exclusively to the nominated sites, including but not limited to tobacco, food, environmental 
and dangerous goods storage licences/permits. 
 
7. All other assets and personnel reasonably necessary to operate such business 
 
Deliverable records related to the property and business connected to each Divestiture 
Site as agreed between Viva Energy and the Proposed Purchaser.  
 


43 
 
 
 
 
Confidential Schedule 5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


44 
 
 
 
 
Schedule 6 – Approved Purchaser 
 
The Approved Purchaser of the Divestiture Business at the date of this Undertaking is 
Chevron Australia Downstream Fuels Pty Limited (ACN 009 644 151) and Chevron 
Australia Downstream Stores Pty Ltd (ACN 116 713 476).  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


45 
 
 
 
 
Confidential Schedule 7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


46 
 
 
 
 
Schedule 8 – Relevant Personnel 
 
For the purposes of clauses 7.5 and 10.13(c) of this Undertaking, "Relevant Personnel" 
includes any employee holding the following positions at Viva Energy: 
(a) 
Executive Leadership Team (Group CEO and Executive General Managers); 
(b) 
Retail Leadership Team; 
(c) 
Retail GM Strategy and Business Development and the following direct reports: 
(i) 
Head of Supply Chain; 
(ii) 
Business & Strategy Performance Manager; 
(iii) 
Procurement Manager; and 
(iv) 
Project Managers; 
(d) 
Retail GM Network Development and the following direct reports: 
(i) 
National Network Manager; 
(ii) 
Retail Program Manager; 
(iii) 
Head of Retail Design & Development; and 
(iv) 
Head of Property Management; 
(e) 
Retail State Manager Region 4 (WA/SA/NT) and the following direct reports: 
(i) 
Regional Operations Manager; 
(ii) 
Retail Area Manager A1 (responsible for a portion of South Australia);  
(iii) 
Retail Area Manager A2 (responsible for a portion of South Australia); 
and 
(iv) 
Cluster Manager (responsible for a portion of South Australia); 
(f) 
Retail Digital & Transformation Lead; 
(g) 
Retail Head of Central Operations and the following direct reports: 
(i) 
National Facilities Manager; and 
(ii) 
Operations Project Lead; 
(h) 
Retail Head of Safety; 
(i) 
Retail Head of Security & Loss Prevention; 
(j) 
Retail Mobility Business Transformation Manager; 
(k) 
Retail Finance Manager – Consumer, Retail Finance Manager – Fuel, Retail 
Finance Manager – Commercial; 
(l) 
Retail Business Intelligence & Pricing Manager; and 
(m) Retail People & Culture Leads. 
 
 
