 
 
 
Public Competition Assessment 
07 May 2024 
Viva Energy - proposed acquisition of OTR Group  
The ACCC’s decision 
1. On 14 December 2023, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission announced 
its decision not to oppose the proposed acquisition by Viva Energy Retail Pty Ltd (Viva 
Energy) of OTR 330 Pty Ltd, OTR 328 Pty Ltd, Reliable Petroleum Pty Ltd, Peregrine Energy 
Pty Ltd and DF Wholesalers Pty Ltd (OTR Group) (the proposed acquisition) after 
accepting a court-enforceable undertaking from Viva Energy (the Viva Energy 
Undertaking). The vendors of the OTR Group include SEPL Pty Ltd, Peregrine (KS) Holdings 
Pty Ltd, Peregrine (SS) Holdings Pty Ltd Peregrine (YS) Holdings Pty Ltd and their related 
bodies corporate and their controlled entities (Peregrine). 
2. The Viva Energy Undertaking requires Viva Energy to divest 25 retail fuel and convenience 
sites in South Australia (24 in Adelaide and one in Ceduna) to an ACCC approved 
purchaser. Viva Energy proposed Chevron Australia Downstream Fuels Pty Limited and 
Chevron Australia Downstream Stores Pty Ltd (Chevron) as the up-front purchaser of 
these divestiture assets and the ACCC approved Chevron at the same time as making a 
decision on the proposed acquisition.  
3. The ACCC considers that the proposed acquisition, in the absence of the Viva Energy 
Undertaking, would be likely to substantially lessen competition in contravention of section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the Act). Section 50 prohibits acquisitions 
that would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of substantially lessening 
competition in any market. The ACCC considers that the Viva Energy Undertaking 
sufficiently addresses the competition concerns such that the proposed acquisition is 
unlikely to contravene section 50 of the Act. 
4. The ACCC’s review focused on both local and regional areas in South Australia and the 
Northern Territory, which is where Viva Energy and OTR Group overlap most significantly. 
In these areas, the ACCC considered the competitive effects of the proposed acquisition 
in the following markets: 
 
local markets (typically up to a 5km radius in metropolitan areas and 10km in radius 
regional areas) for the retail supply of fuel in areas of overlap 
 
state-wide market for the wholesale supply of fuel  
 
local markets for the retail supply of convenience goods.  


 
 
 
1 
 
5. The ACCC also considered metropolitan-wide effects in the retail supply of fuel, 
particularly impacts on the petrol price cycle. 
6. In the absence of the Viva Energy Undertaking, the ACCC considers that the proposed 
acquisition would raise competition concerns in 25 local areas in South Australia where 
the parties compete closely and where there are few remaining competitors to constrain 
Viva Energy from profitably increasing prices or decreasing service quality. 
7. However, the ACCC considers that the divestiture as contemplated by the Viva Energy 
Undertaking will address its competition concerns by maintaining competition in the 
relevant local markets, and facilitating the entry of a viable, effective, standalone, 
independent, and long-term competitor in South Australia via the divestiture to Chevron.  
8. Subsequent to the ACCC’s decision, on 6 February the ACCC was advised that an 
additional four retail fuel and convenience sites had been purchased by the OTR Group in 
Newcastle, and that Viva Energy proposed to acquire these four sites as part of the 
proposed acquisition. However, Viva Energy did not initially seek informal clearance for its 
acquisition of these additional sites and, consequently, they were not included in the 
ACCC’s assessment of the proposed acquisition or its decision of 14 December 2023.  
9. Peregrine completed its acquisition of three of these sites: OTR Newcastle West, OTR 
Hamilton South and OTR Hamilton Tudor Street (together the Central Newcastle Sites) on 
17 December 2023. An additional acquisition of a site in Boolaroo was completed on  
16 October 2023.   
10. On 27 March 2024, the ACCC accepted a court-enforceable undertaking from Peregrine to 
exclude from the proposed acquisition and divest two fuel sites in Newcastle West and 
Hamilton South to a purchaser approved by the ACCC (the Peregrine Undertaking). 
11. The ACCC was concerned that, in the absence of the Peregrine Undertaking, the proposed 
acquisition would have the effect, or would be likely to have the effect, of substantially 
lessening competition in the supply of retail fuel in relevant areas in Newcastle.  However, 
the ACCC considers that the divestiture as contemplated by the Peregrine Undertaking will 
address its competition concerns by maintaining competition in the relevant local markets 
and facilitating the entry of a viable, effective, standalone, independent, and long-term 
competitor in the relevant areas in Newcastle. 
12. This Public Competition Assessment outlines reasons for the decision by the ACCC not to 
oppose the proposed acquisition, taking into account Viva Energy Undertaking and the 
Peregrine Undertaking. Please note that this and other public competition assessments 
are subject to the following qualifications: 
 
The ACCC considers each transaction on a case-by-case basis and so the analysis and 
decision outlined in one assessment will not necessarily reflect the ACCC’s view of 
another transaction. 
 
The ACCC made its decision on the basis of information provided by the merger parties 
and from market inquiries, including confidential information.  
The parties  
The acquirer: Viva Energy 
13. Viva Energy’s ultimate holding company is Viva Energy Group Limited. Viva Energy Group 
Limited, through its wholly owned subsidiaries, is a fuel refiner, importer, wholesaler, 
distributor, and retailer with: 


 
 
 
2 
 
 
a refinery at Geelong 
 
a national import, storage and distribution network. It is active as a primary wholesale 
fuel supplier and commercial fuel supplier in every Australian state and territory  
 
1,307 retail service stations nationally including Coles Express convenience sites. 
14. Viva Energy Australia Pty Ltd (Viva Energy’s holding company) also: 
 
holds a 50% interest in LOC Global Pty Ltd, the Liberty retail fuel business, with an 
option to acquire the remaining 50% interest at the end of 2024, subject to ACCC 
approval  
 
owns Liberty Oil Holdings Pty Ltd, the Liberty wholesale fuel business (which mainly 
supplies fuel to distributors, independent service stations, commercial customers and 
rural customers) 
 
owns Westside Petroleum Pty Ltd, which operates a retail network of fuel station sites. 
The target: OTR Group 
15. OTR Group comprises entities that operate the following businesses: 
 
retail fuel/convenience business which includes 115 service station sites in Adelaide, 
38 sites in regional South Australia, 15 sites in the Northern Territory, 8 sites in Western 
Australia, 11 sites in Victoria and 2 sites in New South Wales. With one exception, OTR 
Group sets the retail price of fuel at all of its sites 
 
Reliable Petroleum and Mogas Regional (secondary fuel wholesalers) which supply 
small commercial customers and independent retail sites in South Australia and 
Victoria 
 
AusFuel Group (secondary fuel wholesaler and retailer) which OTR Group acquired 
from Chevron in March 2023. The Ausfuel Group operates a wholesale and retail fuel 
business in the Northern Territory and north-east Western Australia, and includes the 
Directhaul business 
 
Smokemart and Giftbox (national tobacco and gift retailers) and DF Wholesalers (duty 
free tobacco supplier). 
The proposed acquisition 
16. Viva Energy is proposing to acquire OTR Group by way of share acquisition (for OTR 
Group’s fuel businesses) and asset acquisition (for OTR Group’s tobacco and gift 
businesses).  
17. The proposed acquisition is subject to the receipt of regulatory approvals from the ACCC, 
as well as Foreign Investment Review Board approval.  
Market inquiries 
18. The ACCC conducted market inquiries with a range of industry participants, including 
competitors, potential competitors, customers, input suppliers, industry bodies and other 
interested parties. Submissions were sought in relation to the potential competition issues 
arising from the proposed acquisition. The ACCC also conducted market consultation on 
the Viva Energy Undertaking. The ACCC also obtained confidential information and 
documents from the merger parties and interested parties. 


 
 
 
3 
 
Industry background 
19. Australia’s fuel industry consists of three broad levels – refining and importing of 
wholesale fuel (primary wholesale), resale and distribution of wholesale fuel (secondary 
wholesale) and retail supply. 
20. Fuel sold in Australia is either refined from crude oil at refineries based in Australia or 
imported as a finished product from overseas refineries. 
21. There are currently two refineries operating in Australia: 
 
Viva Energy’s Geelong refinery (Victoria) 
 
Ampol’s Lytton refinery (Queensland). 
22. Remaining refined fuel is imported by wholesalers including Viva Energy, Ampol, BP, 
Chevron, Mobil, Glencore, United, IOR and Park Petroleum.  
Primary wholesalers 
23. The refiners and many of the importers of fuel are primary wholesalers. In South Australia, 
there are 5 primary wholesalers with import terminal facilities: Ampol (in Adelaide), BP (in 
Adelaide) ExxonMobil (in Adelaide), Viva Energy (in Adelaide and Port Lincoln) and IOR (at 
Port Bonython, for diesel only).   
24. In Darwin, primary wholesalers store fuel at the Vopak Darwin Industry Fuel Terminal. 
Currently Viva Energy, Chevron, BP, Ampol and United store product at this terminal on a 
commingled basis. Capacity entitlement is allocated based on throughput on a rolling 
basis. Other primary wholesalers are able to store product at the Vopak Terminal by 
entering into storage arrangements with Vopak. 
Secondary wholesalers 
25. Secondary wholesalers are wholesalers who source fuel from primary wholesalers for 
resupply/distribution to customers.  
26. Secondary wholesalers who operate in South Australia and/or the Northern Territory 
include OTR Group’s Reliable Petroleum, Mogas Regional and Ausfuel Group, Viva Energy’s 
Liberty Oil Holdings Pty Ltd, Perrys, Hunts Fuel, Adelaide Fuel, K & S Fuels, Eyre Fuels, 
Tasco Petroleum, North Coast Petrolum, Metro Petroleum, Premiair Fuels and Recharge. 
Retailers  
27. At the retail level, service stations supply fuel to retail customers. Service stations can be: 
 
sites owned and operated by primary wholesalers, where the primary wholesalers set 
the retail prices 
 
primary wholesaler branded but independently owned and operated sites, where 
typically the independent operator sets the retail prices 
 
independently owned and/or operated sites which range from large independent 
chains to single-site operations. 
28. At the retail level, there are a number of retailers in South Australia and/or the Northern 
Territory in addition to Viva and OTR Group (some of which are vertically integrated with 
wholesale businesses), including Ampol, EG Group, BP, United, X Convenience, Perrys, 
AM/PM, Costco, FuelXpress and Liberty.  


 
 
 
4 
 
Areas of overlap 
29. Viva Energy and OTR Group both operate nationally, however primarily overlap in South 
Australia and the Northern Territory in: 
 
Wholesale fuel supply: As described above, Viva Energy is both a primary and 
secondary wholesaler nationally, and OTR Group is a secondary wholesaler, 
predominantly in South Australia and the Northern Territory. 
 
Retail fuel supply: As describe above, both Viva Energy and OTR Group have retail 
networks across Australia, with the most significant overlap being in South Australia 
and the Northern Territory. 
 
Retail supply of convenience groceries.  
30. The acquisition of the Central Newcastle Sites by Peregrine on 17 December 2023 resulted 
in an overlap in the retail fuel supply networks of Viva Energy and OTR Group in certain 
Newcastle areas.  
31. The ACCC assessed the likely competitive effects of the proposed acquisition on these 
markets from a number of perspectives but considered that it was not necessary to 
precisely define the scope of the relevant markets. 
Competition analysis 
32. The proposed acquisition combines the largest retail fuel network in South Australia with 
a national, vertically integrated primary wholesaler and retailer of fuel.  
33. The ACCC considered competition effects in the: 
 
retail supply of fuel in South Australia, the Northern Territory and Newcastle, including:  
o horizontal coordinated effects in fuel retailing in metropolitan Adelaide  
o horizontal unilateral effects in local areas where Viva Energy and OTR Group 
overlap 
o whether the proposed acquisition would enhance Viva Energy’s ability and 
incentive to vertically foreclose rival retailers to whom Viva Energy supplies fuel. 
 
retail supply of convenience groceries and tobacco.  
 
wholesale supply of fuel in South Australia, specifically: 
o whether upstream primary wholesalers may be unable to find sufficient alternative 
downstream buyers because Viva Energy will be the wholesale supplier of fuel to 
OTR Group’s retail network  
o whether the proposed acquisition would enhance Viva Energy’s ability and 
incentive to vertically foreclose rival secondary wholesalers 
o horizontal unilateral effects in the wholesale supply of fuel to independent 
retailers and commercial customers particularly in regional areas of South 
Australia. 
 
 


 
 
 
5 
 
 
Competition analysis - retail fuel supply  
Horizontal coordinated effects  
34. The ACCC considered whether the proposed acquisition may have the effect of resulting 
in or increasing coordination among fuel retailers in metropolitan Adelaide, manifesting as 
changes in price cycles that on balance harmed consumers. The ACCC analysed fuel 
pricing data from the South Australia Fuel Pricing Scheme to determine average fuel prices 
of major retailers in Adelaide. This analysis showed that both Viva Energy and OTR Group 
generally price above the average in Adelaide. 
35. The ACCC considered whether the proposed acquisition would increase the ability of Viva 
Energy to increase prices in the price increase phase, leading to shorter price cycles and 
limiting the duration of the price decrease phase. However, the ACCC considered that the 
proposed upfront divestiture of 231 Viva sites in Adelaide would address any likely 
lessening of competition as a result of coordination. As such, the ACCC’s focussed on 
possible unilateral effects in local areas. 
Local areas of overlap 
36. Viva Energy and OTR Group overlap in the supply of retail fuel across Australia. However, 
the most significant areas of local overlap are in South Australia and the Northern Territory, 
and as such, the ACCC’s review focused on those areas. Following the acquisition of the 
Central Newcastle Sites by Peregrine on 17 December 2023, the ACCC also reviewed the 
local overlap in this area.   
37. Market participants expressed concern that the proposed acquisition would remove OTR 
Group as a source of competitive constraint on Viva Energy, increase concentration and 
give Viva Energy the ability to profitably increase retail prices and/or reduce service levels 
in local areas of overlap, including in areas where OTR Group have sites under 
development. 
South Australia 
38. The ACCC considers that Viva Energy and OTR Group are close competitors for the supply 
of retail fuel in several local areas in South Australia. In some local areas, the proposed 
acquisition would have removed competition between the parties’ sites and left few 
remaining competitors to effectively constrain Viva Energy from increasing prices (or 
implementing equivalent reductions in non-price aspects of its retail offerings).  
39. The starting point for the ACCC’s local area analysis of metropolitan sites was considering: 
 
the concentration of sites up to 5km radius around each Viva Energy site 
 
volumes of fuel sold (by the merger parties and by competitors)  
 
local features such as traffic flows, geography, site accessibility, site offerings, 
characteristics of remaining competitive sites, and other indicators. 
40. Accordingly, the boundaries of each relevant local area varied in each case. 
41. The ACCC applied a similar methodology to OTR Group sites under development.  
 
 
1 Viva Energy initially offered to divest 23 of its 32 retail sites in Adelaide. However, the number of sites to be divested 
increased to 25 in response to concerns raised by the ACCC following consultation with market participants. 
 


 
 
 
6 
 
42. For each site, the ACCC considered the number of remaining competitors and the 
combined market share by sites and by volumes of fuel sold, and a range of other factors 
affecting competition. For most of the divestiture sites, there would be less than 3 
remaining local retailers and the combined market share of Viva Energy and OTR Group 
would be high, typically above 50%.  
43. With the Viva Energy Undertaking, the proposed acquisition results in an increase to the 
existing OTR Group network in Adelaide of 8 sites (representing approximately 3% by share 
of OTR Group’s pre-merger site number). In those 8 overlapping locations, there will remain 
several competitors, including United, X Convenience, AM/PM, EG, Costco and Ampol. 
44. For regional areas, the ACCC considered a 10km radius around each Viva Energy owned 
and operated site as a starting point and considered similar features to those identified 
above for metropolitan sites. As many of the sites in regional South Australia were situated 
on truck routes from Melbourne to Perth and Sydney to Perth, in some instances the ACCC 
considered the supply of ULP91 and diesel separately. 
45. The ACCC identified Ceduna as an area of concern in which, without the Viva Energy 
Undertaking, the proposed acquisition would have resulted in Viva Energy operating 3 of 
only 5 sites that supply ULP91 and which account for over 70% of ULP91 volumes sold. In 
addition, Ceduna is particularly remote and services surrounding towns including Streaky 
Bay (which is a 1 hour 10-minute drive away).  
46. The ACCC also identified concerns that Viva Energy gaining a significant market presence 
in both the retail and primary wholesale supply of fuel in South Australia could result in 
other upstream primary wholesalers being unable to find sufficient alternative 
downstream buyers, reducing competition in wholesale supply, which would in turn affect 
rival retailers.  However, the ACCC considers there are a number of factors that would likely 
mitigate any foreclosing effect on upstream primary wholesaling rivals. These factors are 
outlined further in paragraph 57.  
47. The ACCC has concluded that, in the absence of the Viva Energy Undertaking, the proposed 
acquisition would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of substantially lessening 
competition in the supply of retail fuel in 25 local areas in South Australia.  
Northern Territory 
48. The ACCC considered the proposed acquisition’s potential competition effects on the 
retail supply of fuel in local areas in the Northern Territory where Viva Energy and OTR 
Group both have a retail presence. The ACCC applied a similar methodology to its analysis 
of local areas in Darwin as it did in its analysis of local areas in South Australia, including 
considering fuel volumes supplied by the parties and by competitors.  However, the ACCC 
did have regard to the differences in pricing patterns in each state in undertaking its 
analysis. 
49. Overall, the ACCC considers the proposed acquisition is not likely to substantially lessen 
competition for the supply of retail fuel in local areas in the Northern Territory nor in Darwin 
more generally as: 
 
the Darwin CBD and Palmerston regions experience strong price competition from 
discounters such as FuelXpress and United 
 
in local areas in Darwin, there will remain several competitors to constrain Viva 
Energy’s ability to profitably raise prices or lower service levels, including FuelXpress, 
IOR, United, EG, BP and Ampol 
 
in regional local areas of overlap, there are also a sufficient number of remaining 
competitors. 


 
 
 
7 
 
Central Newcastle  
50. With respect to the Central Newcastle Sites, the ACCC applied a similar methodology to 
its analysis as in the sections above. In the absence of the Peregrine Undertaking the 
proposed acquisition would have resulted in Viva Energy obtaining 3 additional sites (in 
addition to its existing sites) within a 5km radius, providing it with an overall market share 
(by sites) of 30% per cent within a 3km radius, and 42% within a 5km radius. With the 
Peregrine Undertaking, the proposed acquisition only results in Viva Energy obtaining 1 
additional site within this area. 
Foreclosure of rival retailers in South Australia 
51. The ACCC considered whether the proposed acquisition would enhance Viva Energy’s 
ability and incentive to foreclose downstream independently owned retailers in South 
Australia that compete with Viva Energy in the retail supply of fuel, but who also source or 
might source fuel from Viva Energy.  
52. The ACCC considers there are several constraints which limit Viva Energy’s ability to 
engage in foreclosure strategies against independent retailers: 
 
wholesale supply agreements with independent retailers usually have terms of 5 years, 
and customers are able to, and do regularly, switch suppliers at the end of their terms  
 
in South Australia, there are a range of competing primary wholesalers (such as Ampol, 
BP, Mobil and IOR) and secondary wholesalers (such as Hunts Fuels and Perrys) who 
will continue to compete to supply fuel to independent retailers, so independent 
retailers will have available switching options. 
Competition Analysis – convenience retailing  
53. The ACCC considered whether the proposed acquisition would be likely to substantially 
lessen competition in the retail supply of convenience grocery offerings (including 
tobacco) through the loss of rivalry between Viva Energy’s and OTR Group’s forecourt 
convenience and quick service restaurant offerings. 
54. The ACCC notes that convenience offerings may to varying degrees include supermarkets, 
independent grocers, fast food and takeaway food outlets, cafes, bakeries, tobacconists, 
and other fuel retailing operations.  
55. Accordingly, the ACCC does not consider that the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in convenience retailing. 
Competition analysis – wholesale fuel supply    
Vertical effects through the foreclosure of primary wholesalers in South Australia 
56. The ACCC considered whether Viva Energy, as a primarily wholesaler and after becoming 
the wholesale supplier of fuel to OTR Group’s retail network, this would result in the 
foreclosure of upstream primary wholesalers on the basis that such wholesalers may be 
unable to find sufficient alternative downstream buyers.  
57. The ACCC concluded that post-acquisition, the following factors would likely mitigate any 
foreclosing effect on upstream primary wholesaling rivals: 
 
a range of wholesale customers would remain. This includes retailers, commercial 
customers, government customers, secondary wholesalers and other primary 


 
 
 
8 
 
wholesalers whose volumes will be contestable as their existing supply arrangements 
are either non-exclusive or come up for renewal periodically, and for whom primary 
wholesalers in Adelaide will be able to compete to supply  
 
moreover, Viva Energy would itself likely need to negotiate with other primary 
wholesalers to arrange wholesale supply on behalf of OTR Group post-2025 
 
primary wholesalers have an incentive to compete for volumes to maintain both brand 
presence and the viability of their import and distribution infrastructure, and this will 
continue post-acquisition 
 
wholesale customers including secondary wholesalers, commercial customers, and 
retailers often have the ability to switch suppliers with minimal switching costs as: 
o secondary wholesale customers acquire some of their fuel from primary 
wholesalers ex-gate at the terminal on a non-exclusive basis 
o commercial customers often acquire fuel from multiple sources 
o retailers seeking to switch at the end of a contract (typically 5 years in duration) 
can receive assistance from the incoming wholesale supplier in the form of 
payments to cover rebranding/onboarding expenses or financing (with 
repayments over time) to cover costs associated with returning/refinancing 
equipment.  
58. As such, the ACCC’s view is that the proposed acquisition is not likely to substantially 
lessen competition for the primary wholesale supply of fuel in South Australia. 
Foreclosure of secondary wholesalers in South Australia 
59. The ACCC considered whether combining Viva Energy’s wholesale fuel business and OTR 
Group’s secondary wholesale fuel business could enhance Viva Energy’s ability and 
incentive to vertically foreclose competing secondary wholesalers in South Australia. To 
the extent this occurred, it would lessen competition in markets for the retail supply of fuel 
to secondary wholesale customers in South Australia.  
60. The ACCC considers there are several constraints that limit Viva Energy’s ability and 
incentive to engage in foreclosure strategies against secondary wholesalers in South 
Australia as: 
 
there are a number of wholesale fuel sources in South Australia which provide 
switching options to secondary wholesalers including: 
o primary wholesalers such as Ampol, BP and Mobil, which operate import terminals 
at Port Adelaide. These primary wholesalers supply to customers in metropolitan 
and regional locations (via overland freight)2 
o IOR, which owns and operates a diesel terminal at Port Bonython  
 
commercial customers can switch with minimal costs. 
 
 
2 The ACCC understands that transporting fuel via overland freight can incur additional freight costs which may 
make this a less viable option for some regional locations. 


 
 
 
9 
 
61. Consequently, the ACCC does not consider that the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in the markets for the retail supply of fuel to secondary 
wholesale customers in South Australia. 
Horizontal effects in the wholesale supply of fuel to independent retailers and 
commercial customers particularly in regional areas of South Australia and the 
Northern Territory 
62. Viva Energy and OTR Group are rivals in the wholesale supply of fuel to independent 
retailers and commercial customers in South Australia and the Northern Territory. The 
ACCC considered whether, by acquiring OTR Group’s secondary wholesale businesses, the 
proposed acquisition would remove the competitive constraint that Viva Energy and OTR 
Group currently exert on one another and whether this would have the effect, or be likely 
to have the effect, of substantially lessening competition in the wholesale supply of fuel to 
independent retailers and commercial customers in these areas.  
Independent retailers 
63. The ACCC’s market inquiries indicated that, post-acquisition, there will remain a number 
of rival primary and secondary wholesalers who will have the ability and incentive to 
compete to supply to independent retailers, so independent retailers will have switching 
options available to them.  
Commercial customers 
64. The ACCC did not receive feedback from commercial customers of fuel on this issue. 
However, the ACCC understands that: 
 
post-acquisition, there will remain a number of competitively effective primary and 
secondary wholesale alternatives for commercial customers. 
 
commercial customers tend to source fuel on a non-exclusive basis, meaning that 
supply contracts are frequently contestable. Switching costs appear to be minimal for 
these customers and are generally limited to the return of any fuelling equipment. 
 
there are limited overlaps between the parties in the supply of wholesale fuel to 
commercial customers.   
 
the increment to Viva Energy’s share of wholesale supplies to commercial customers 
by volume (relative to state-wide wholesale fuel supply volumes) post-acquisition is 
minimal.  
65. Overall, the ACCC’s view is that the proposed acquisition is not likely to substantially lessen 
competition for the supply of wholesale fuel to independent retailers or commercial 
customers. 
Viva Energy Undertaking 
66. In order to address the ACCC’s competition concerns outlined above, Viva Energy offered 
the Viva Energy Undertaking pursuant to section 87B of the Act.  
67. Pursuant to the Viva Energy Undertaking, Viva Energy is required to divest 25 retail fuel and 
convenience sites in South Australia (24 in Adelaide and one in Ceduna).  
68. Viva Energy initially offered to divest 23 of its 32 retail sites in Adelaide. However, the 
number of sites to be divested increased to 25 in response to concerns raised by the ACCC 
following consultation with market participants. 


 
 
 
10 
 
69. Viva Energy proposed Chevron as the up-front purchaser of the 25 retail fuel and 
convenience sites in South Australia. The ACCC approved Chevron as the purchaser after 
giving consideration to a number of factors, including Chevron’s previous and current 
experience in the Australian fuel industry (and its global presence as a fuel producer, 
importer, wholesaler and retailer), its financial capability, and its plans to maintain and 
operate the 25 retail fuel and convenience sites.  
70. The ACCC considers that a divestiture as contemplated by the Viva Energy Undertaking 
will sufficiently address its competition concerns with the proposed acquisition. This is 
due to the ACCC’s view that the acquisition of 25 retail sites in South Australia by an ACCC 
approved purchaser will: 
 
replace the competition in the retail supply of fuel that would have been lost as a result 
of the proposed acquisition and ensure choice for consumers,  
 
enable Chevron to expand its retail presence in South Australia at a scale sufficient to 
act as a constraint on Viva Energy in the retail supply of fuel in South Australia, creating 
a viable, effective, independent retail competitor, and 
 
create a new potential wholesale customer as wholesalers will be able to compete to 
supply Chevron’s future retail fuel requirements in South Australia. 
71. A copy of the Viva Energy Undertaking is available on the ACCC mergers register and 
undertakings register. 
72. In exchange for the 25 retail fuel and convenience sites, Viva Energy is acquiring 13 Caltex 
/ Puma branded sites from Chevron in Western Australia, Queensland and New South 
Wales (the swap sites).  
73. The swap sites are located in the following areas:  
 
Western Australia: Caltex Yanchep, Caltex Harvey, Puma Sawyers Valley, Caltex 
Balcatta, Caltex Guildford  
 
Queensland: Caltex Monto, Puma Zilzie, Caltex Maryborough, Caltex Banana, Caltex 
Calliope, Caltex Mt Larcom, Caltex The Gap  
 
New South Wales: Caltex Marsden Park 
74. As part of its assessment, for each site the ACCC considered the number of remaining 
competitors, combined market shares and a range of other factors affecting local market 
competition. 
75. The ACCC is satisfied that Viva Energy’s acquisition of the swap sites from Chevron is not 
likely to substantially lessen competition in the retail supply of fuel in the swap site 
locations because:  
 
There was no overlap or the swap sites resulted in only an incremental increase in Viva 
Energy's existing market shares  
 
in the three local areas where the swap sites overlap with Viva Energy/OTR Group 
owned and operated sites (Marsden Park (NSW), Guildford (WA) and Balcatta (WA)), 
the ACCC considers there are several effective competitors to constrain Viva Energy 
in each of these areas.  
Peregrine Undertaking 
76. In order to address the ACCC’s competition concerns outlined above with respect to the 
Central Newcastle Sites, Peregrine offered the Peregrine Undertaking pursuant to s 87B of 


 
 
 
11 
 
the Act, under which Peregrine will exclude from the Proposed Acquisition and divest fuel 
sites in Newcastle West and Hamilton South to a purchaser approved by the ACCC. 
77. The ACCC considers that a divestiture as contemplated by the Peregrine Undertaking will 
sufficiently address its competition concerns with the proposed acquisition, as it will 
ensure that the Newcastle West and Hamilton South fuel sites are sold to an Approved 
Purchaser that will result in the creation or strengthening of a viable, effective, stand-alone, 
independent and long term competitor for the supply of retail fuel in the relevant local 
areas in Newcastle. 
78. In addition, the Peregrine Undertaking also places obligations on Peregrine to: 
 
ensure the purchaser of the Newcastle West and Hamilton South fuel sites has all the 
necessary associated assets and rights to compete effectively with Peregrine – and 
following the Control Date, Viva Energy – in the relevant local areas in Newcastle; 
 
maintain the economic viability, marketability, competitiveness and goodwill of the 
Divestiture Business prior to divestiture; and 
 
provide for the effective oversight of Peregrine’s compliance with this undertaking. 
79. A copy of the Peregrine Undertaking is available on the ACCC mergers register and 
undertakings register. 
Conclusion 
80. Based on the above analysis, the ACCC considers that the proposed acquisition of OTR 
Group by Viva Energy, in the absence of the Viva Energy Undertaking and the Peregrine 
Undertaking, was likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in the 
supply of retail fuel in 25 local areas in South Australia and in relevant areas in Newcastle. 
81. However, the ACCC considers that the Viva Energy Undertaking and the Peregrine 
Undertaking address the competition concerns raised such that the proposed acquisition 
would not be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in any market. 
