 
Page 1 of 18 
 
Public Competition Assessment 
11 October 2018 
Sydney Transport Partners Consortium (including 
Transurban) - proposed acquisition of a majority interest in 
WestConnex  
 
The ACCC’s decision 
1. 
On 30 August 2018 the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission 
(ACCC) announced its decision not to oppose the proposed acquisition of a 
majority interest in the WestConnex toll road project by Sydney Transport 
Partners (STP) (a consortium led by Transurban) (the proposed acquisition) 
subject to section 87B undertakings. 
2. 
The ACCC considered that the proposed acquisition, in conjunction with the 
undertakings, would not contravene section 50 of the Competition and 
Consumer Act 2010 (the Act).  
3. 
Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to have 
the effect, of substantially lessening competition in any market. 
4. 
The ACCC focussed on the impact the proposed acquisition would have on the 
level of competition for future toll road concessions in New South Wales (NSW). 
In particular, the ACCC considered whether the proposed acquisition would 
lessen competition by strengthening Transurban’s incumbency advantages and 
preventing an alternative acquirer from establishing a significant toll road 
presence and therefore competing more vigorously for future toll road 
concessions. 
5. 
The ACCC also assessed road-on-road competition issues, and whether 
Transurban’s existing toll road interests might compete with the WestConnex 
roads. 
6. 
Please note that this and other public competition assessments are subject to 
the following qualifications: 
 
The ACCC considers each transaction on a case-by-case basis and so the 
analysis and decision outlined in one assessment will not necessarily reflect 
the ACCC’s view of another transaction, even where that other transaction 
may involve the same or a related market. 


 
Page 2 of 18 
 
As assessments are brief and do not refer to confidential information 
provided by the parties or other market participants, assessments do not set 
out all of the issues and information considered by the ACCC, nor all of the 
analysis and reasons of the ACCC.  
The parties and the transaction 
The acquirer: Sydney Transport Partners 
7. 
STP comprises Transurban, AustralianSuper Pty Ltd, Canada Pension Plan 
Investment Board (CPPIB) and Tawreed Investments Limited as interest 
holders. 
Transurban 
8. 
In this public competition assessment, a reference to Transurban is a reference 
to Transurban Group, or an entity controlled by Transurban Group. 
9. 
In NSW, Transurban holds the concessions for the following toll roads: 
 
the M2 Motorway 
 
the Lane Cove City Tunnel 
 
the Cross City Tunnel. 
10. Transurban also holds a 50 per cent or greater share in the following NSW toll 
roads: 
 
the NorthConnex Motorway1 
 
the M5 Motorway 
 
the M7 Motorway 
 
the M1 Motorway (Eastern Distributor). 
11. In addition to its toll road assets, Transurban has interests in providers of 
electronic tolling and tag issuing services under a number of brands. In NSW, 
Transurban has an interest in the E-way, Roam and Transurban Linkt brands. 
12. Transurban holds interests in 15 of 19 toll road concessions in Australia, and 
seven of nine such concessions in NSW.  
Other consortium members  
13. Other STP consortium members also have direct or indirect minority interests in 
a number of toll road assets in NSW or elsewhere in Australia. CPPIB has 
indirect, minority interests in the M7 and NorthConnex motorways, and Tawreed 
and AustralianSuper both have a minority interest in Transurban Queensland.  
                                                 
1 The NorthConnex Motorway is currently under construction with completion expected in late 2019. 


 
Page 3 of 18 
The target: WestConnex 
14. WestConnex is a partially completed motorway development in Sydney (see 
Figure 1 – WestConnex toll roads). The Sydney Motorway Corporation (SMC) 
currently holds, through a trust structure, the three concessions to build, operate 
and toll the motorways. SMC’s shares are held by the NSW Government. 
15. WestConnex will comprise approximately 33 kilometres of interconnected 
motorways and road upgrades, which will improve and extend the M4 motorway 
from Parramatta to Sydney Airport and duplicate the M5 East corridor. It is being 
completed in three stages, each of which has (or will have) a tolling concession. 
These concessions will run until 2060. 
 
Stage 1 involves the concession rights in respect of the WestConnex M4. 
 
Stage 2 involves the concession rights in respect of the WestConnex M5, 
including the New M5 motorway, the M5 East and the M5 West. 
 
Stage 3 involves the concession rights in respect of the WestConnex M4 – 
M5 Link, the Rozelle Interchange and Iron Cove Link (see figure 1 below). 
Figure 1 – WestConnex toll roads 
 
 


 
Page 4 of 18 
The transaction 
16. In May 2017, the NSW Government commenced a competitive tender process to 
sell a 51 per cent interest in the three WestConnex concessions. On 31 August 
2018, following the completion of the ACCC’s review of the proposed acquisition, 
the NSW Government announced STP as the successful bidder for the 
WestConnex concessions.  
Review timeline 
17. The following table outlines the timeline of key events for the ACCC in this 
matter. 
Date 
Event 
26 February 2018 
ACCC commenced review under the Merger Process Guidelines. 
6 April 2018 
Former proposed decision date of 26 April 2018 delayed to allow 
provision of information from the Sydney Transport Partners 
Consortium. 
20 April 2018 
ACCC received further information from the Sydney Transport 
Partners Consortium. 
17 May 2018 
ACCC published a statement of issues outlining preliminary 
competition concerns. 
19 July 2018 
Former decision date of 19 July 2018 delayed to allow more time to 
consider the competition issues and obtain further information from 
the parties and market participants.  
9 August 2018 
Draft section 87B undertaking proffered by Transurban. ACCC 
commenced market inquiries. 
21 August 2018 
Former proposed decision date of 6 September 2018 brought forward 
to 30 August 2018 to take into account the NSW Government’s 
timetable for the sale of WestConnex. 
30 August 2018 
ACCC announced it would not oppose the proposed acquisition, 
subject to a section 87B undertaking accepted by the ACCC.  
18. The ACCC engaged extensively with Transurban and the NSW Government 
prior to 26 February 2018, but only commenced the public review once it had 
obtained the necessary information and consent from the parties.  
19. The total elapsed time from start to finish was just over six months. The total 
period, net of time taken by the parties to submit information or documents, was 
97 business days.  
Market inquiries 
20. The ACCC conducted market inquiries with a range of industry participants, 
including competitors, potential competitors, customers, input suppliers, industry 
bodies, other regulatory agencies and other interested parties. Submissions 
were sought in relation to the substantive competition issues and the proposed 
undertaking.  


 
Page 5 of 18 
Statement of issues 
21. On 17 May 2018, the ACCC published a statement of issues outlining its 
preliminary view that the proposed acquisition may reduce competition due to 
the following: 
 
An alternative acquirer of WestConnex would result in two major toll 
operators in Sydney that would likely compete strongly for future toll road 
concessions. 
 
The proposed acquisition would strengthen the incumbency advantages that 
Transurban currently holds for acquiring toll road concessions in NSW. 
 
The proposed acquisition may prevent an opportunity to establish road-on-
road competition between toll roads in the Sydney region, which may result 
in lower tolls and/or increases in service levels.  
Industry background 
Toll roads in Australia 
22. Toll road concessions are typically long-term contractual arrangements between 
a toll road operator and the relevant state government under which the operator 
constructs, operates and/or maintains a toll road in return for the right to collect 
toll revenue from motorists using the toll road. Concession deeds differ from road 
to road. For example, there might be a different pricing structure depending on 
the size and nature of the toll road or different prescriptions as to the level of 
administrative fees that can be levied on motorists. Generally, toll road 
concessions set the maximum price that the toll road operator can charge 
motorists for using the toll road. 
23. Toll road concessions have in the past generally been awarded following a 
competitive bidding process. However, toll road concessions can also be 
awarded in response to an unsolicited proposal, otherwise known as a market-
led proposal. An unsolicited proposal is a proposal from a private entity to a state 
government in relation to an infrastructure project for which the government has 
not requested proposals. In relation to toll roads, an unsolicited proposal can be 
for either a toll road that has been identified as a potential project by the relevant 
state government, or a proposal for a toll road that has not previously been 
identified by the government. A number of state governments have published 
guidelines for making unsolicited proposals.2 
24. Transurban has been awarded the following five toll road concessions or toll 
road upgrade projects after submitting unsolicited proposals to the relevant state 
governments: 
 
NorthConnex (NSW) (March 2014): awarded to Transurban in exchange for 
an extension of the M7 and Lane Cove Tunnel concessions and an increase 
to the heavy vehicle multiplier on these toll roads 
                                                 
2 For example, Unsolicited Proposals, Guide for Submission and Assessment, NSW Government, August 2017; 
Market-led Proposals Guideline, Victorian Government, November 2017; Market-led Proposal Guidelines, 
Queensland Treasury, July 2017.  


 
Page 6 of 18 
 
CityLink upgrades (Vic) (August 2015): awarded to Transurban in exchange 
for an extension of the CityLink concession 
 
Logan Enhancement Project (Qld) (November 2016): awarded to 
Transurban in exchange for an increase to the heavy vehicle multiplier on 
the Logan and Gateway Motorways 
 
Inner City Bypass Upgrade (Qld) (March 2017): awarded to Transurban in 
exchange for an increase to the heavy vehicle multiplier on the Go Between 
Bridge, the Clem Jones Tunnel and Legacy Way 
 
West Gate Tunnel (Vic) (December 2017): awarded to Transurban in 
exchange for an extension of the CityLink concession.  
Traffic data and modelling 
25. Traffic modelling and forecasting are key inputs into bids for toll road 
concessions as they enable estimates of toll revenue over the concession period 
to be made. The level of confidence in traffic forecasts is critical and has tangible 
impacts, most importantly on the required rate of return for equity contributors. 
26. There is an inherent degree of uncertainty when forecasting traffic flows and 
revenues for toll road concessions. Forecasts rely on demand assumptions 
about growth to accurately predict traffic flows and revenues. Traffic models are 
calibrated and validated using existing road-use data, including traffic count data 
and trip/travel pattern data.   
Traffic count data 
27. Traffic count data is data that measures the number and type of vehicles that 
pass by a certain point. It is used for the following purposes in traffic modelling:  
 
Calculation of annualisation factors – strategic models (i.e. models designed 
to forecast traffic demand on future toll roads) generally model an average 
work day. Annualisation factors are used to convert the average workday 
forecast into an annual traffic forecast.  
 
Validation – comparing actual traffic counts at points across the road 
network with model forecasts of traffic counts at the same locations.  
28. Traffic count data in the Sydney area can be obtained from the following 
sources:  
 
Induction loop and traffic survey data collected by RMS3 on public roads (at 
approximately 1,700 locations)  
 
Induction loop data collected by toll road owners (located on the toll roads 
and on some entry/exit ramps)  
 
Gantry data collected by toll road owners (there are approximately 30 
gantries on NSW toll roads in which Transurban has an interest)  
                                                 
3 Roads and Maritime Services, a NSW Government agency that manages the operations and programs of NSW’s 
roads and waterways. 


 
Page 7 of 18 
 
Non-RMS traffic surveys conducted on public roads using various forms of 
technology (e.g. cameras, counting tubes across roads).  
29. Gantry data is collected by equipment mounted on gantries located on toll roads. 
This equipment detects electronic tags (e-tags), classifies vehicles and 
photographs vehicles. The photographs are used to match a vehicle to an 
account or licence plate number where no e-tag is detected. The equipment 
mounted on gantries collects the following information relevant to traffic 
modelling:  
 
Passages (i.e. the number of vehicles that pass under the gantry)  
 
Vehicle class (i.e. light or heavy vehicle)  
 
Passage date and time  
 
E-tag ID and status  
 
Front and rear photos of vehicles.  
30. Gantry data is collected for the primary purpose of billing customers for their use 
of toll roads. As such, the data is very accurate.  
31. Induction loop data is captured by electromagnetic loops embedded in roads. 
Induction loops collect the following data:  
 
Passages (i.e. the number of vehicles that pass over the loop)  
 
Passage date and time  
 
High-level vehicle type data.   
32. Induction loop data is collected primarily for government planning purposes. Due 
to the less sophisticated nature of electromagnetic loops, the traffic count data 
collected by induction loops is not as accurate as gantry data.  
33. Further, induction loops are embedded in roads and are easily damaged, 
resulting in no data being recorded. Because of the large number of induction 
loops, and because they are used primarily for government planning (as 
opposed to billing customers), loops are not maintained to the same standard as 
gantries.  
34. Although induction loop data is available at more locations, it is less accurate 
and less reliable than gantry data. 
Trip/travel pattern data 
35. Trip or travel pattern data (referred to here as “trip data”) is data that describes 
trips taken by vehicles through a network.  
36. Trip data could be used for the following purposes in traffic modelling:  
 
Calculating travel times and speeds  


 
Page 8 of 18 
 
Identifying travel patterns of vehicles on toll roads  
 
Creating entry-exit matrices for toll roads by time of day, day of week and 
vehicle type 
 
Understanding user behaviour data, including willingness-to-pay, value-of-
time, toll elasticity parameters, frequency of usage, impact of service 
changes or toll pricing changes (including discounts or rewards) and 
monthly expenditure on tolls. 
37. Understanding travel times and user behaviour, in particular willingness-to-pay 
and value-of-time, is vital for traffic modelling as it allows modellers to create 
accurate origin/destination matrices which are used to determine which vehicles 
will travel on which roads, including the new road being modelled. 
38. Trip/travel pattern data can be obtained from public sources or can be readily 
acquired, including from the following sources:  
 
TomTom/Google/mobile phone travel time data  
 
Sydney Household Travel Survey  
 
ABS Journey to Work data  
 
Revealed and stated preference surveys. 
Electronic tolling 
39. All toll roads in Australia employ Electronic Tolling Collection (ETC) technology 
to capture the information of vehicles that travel on the roads. Motorists must use 
an e-tag or a pass (e.g. where a video image is taken of the motorist’s licence 
plate and an invoice sent post-transaction) when driving on toll roads. These e-
tags and passes allow a toll road’s ETC infrastructure to capture a vehicle’s 
journey on the toll road. A vehicle’s trip data captured by tolling gantries on the 
toll roads is passed to “back-end” trip processing systems which validate trips 
and convert this to a toll charge. 
Market definition 
40. The ACCC’s starting point for delineating relevant markets to assess the 
competitive effects of the proposed acquisition involves identifying the products 
actually or potentially supplied by the parties to the acquisition. The ACCC then 
focuses on areas of activity where competitive harm could occur as a result of 
the proposed acquisition. 
41. The ACCC’s assessment focussed on the impact of the proposed acquisition on:  
 
competition for future concessions to construct and/or operate toll roads in 
NSW or nationally 
 
competition for the supply of road services to motorists for various 
origin/destination combinations in the Sydney region. 


 
Page 9 of 18 
42. Both of these markets are discussed in detail below.  
43. In addition to these two markets, the ACCC also considered the likely impact of 
the proposed acquisition on the: 
 
supply of electronic tolling services to motorists 
 
acquisition of specialised engineering services for toll roads.  
44. As there was no e-tag business included in the sale of WestConnex, 
Transurban’s presence in electronic tolling through its e-tag businesses was not 
directly relevant to the ACCC’s competition assessment. The ACCC therefore 
considered that the proposed acquisition was unlikely to have any material 
impact on competition for the supply of electronic tolling services to motorists in 
NSW.  
45. The ACCC considered that it was likely that the supply of specialised 
engineering services for toll roads forms part of a broader national market for 
infrastructure construction services. Given this broader market, in which there 
are a number of significant acquirers in addition to Transurban, the ACCC 
concluded that the proposed acquisition was unlikely to substantially lessen 
competition in relation to the acquisition of specialised engineering services for 
toll roads.  
Market for toll road concessions 
46. In its previous assessment of acquisitions of toll road assets, the ACCC applied 
a national bidding market for toll road construction, ownership and/or operation.4 
This market definition should be viewed in the context of those specific 
acquisitions at the time. The identification of a market in any given case is 
generally purposive and directed to the problem or issue at hand.5  
47. In this review, the ACCC considered that the market for toll road concessions 
includes concessions that are acquired following a competitive bidding process 
as well as concessions that may be obtained through unsolicited proposals. The 
ACCC also considered that the geographic dimension of the market was likely to 
be state-based. The reasons for this approach are discussed in detail below. 
Unsolicited proposals are part of the market for toll road concessions 
48. The ACCC previously considered toll road acquisitions in the context of a bidding 
market for toll road concessions. At the time of these previous decisions, the 
impact of the acquisitions of toll road concessions on the ability of the acquirer to 
be successful with unsolicited proposals in the future was not raised as a 
significant issue. However, market participants raised concerns that the 
proposed acquisition would give Transurban an increased ability to offer to 
develop and operate new toll roads through unsolicited proposals to the NSW 
Government.  
                                                 
4 See for example, Transurban Consortium: Proposed acquisition of the assets of the Queensland Motorways Group 
(ACCC Mergers Register reference #53791), 4 April 2014; Transurban consortium – proposed acquisition of 
BrisConnections including the AirportLinkM7 toll road in Brisbane (ACCC, Mergers Register reference #58422), 26 
November 2015.   
5 See Australian Competition and Consumer Commission v Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Limited [2015] 
FCAFC 103 at [136]; Flight Centre Limited v Australian Competition and Consumer Commission [2015] FCAFC 
104 at [118].   


 
Page 10 of 18 
49. The ACCC considered that unsolicited proposals are not isolated from 
competitive bidding processes for toll road concessions. Unsolicited proposals 
and bidding processes are both mechanisms for obtaining toll road concessions 
and when assessing an unsolicited proposal, it is open to the government to 
decide whether to proceed with the proposal or to conduct a competitive bidding 
process instead.6 Therefore, the ACCC concluded that all methods of obtaining 
toll road concessions, however sought or granted, form part of the relevant 
market. 
Geographic dimension 
50. The ACCC has previously considered a national market in respect of toll road 
concessions. The ACCC understands that toll road developers and operators 
(both actual and potential) are effectively able to compete for toll road 
concessions from any location in Australia (or internationally), as there is 
generally no requirement for toll road operators to have any established 
infrastructure or other associated assets in the relevant state where the toll road 
is to be developed. These factors point towards the market being national as 
was defined in previous merger investigations in this industry.  
51. However, the identification of the relevant market needs to be directed to the 
problem or issue at hand. In the present case, the key competition concerns 
relate to NSW, in particular:  
 
Incumbency advantages in NSW, arising from NSW traffic models and NSW 
traffic data 
 
Incumbency advantages in NSW when submitting unsolicited proposal by 
leveraging an existing toll road asset in NSW.  
52. For these reasons, the ACCC considered the most relevant geographic 
dimension to be state-based for the purpose of assessing the proposed 
acquisition, while noting the possibility for the market to have a national 
dimension. 
Market for the supply of road services to motorists 
53. The ACCC analysed the likely effect of the proposed acquisition on the supply of 
road services to road users, in particular focussing on whether the Transurban 
and WestConnex toll roads were likely to be substitutable for some road users. 
Areas of overlap between WestConnex and other toll roads 
54. The ACCC had not previously considered competition between toll road 
operators as part of a review of toll road concession acquisitions as no two toll 
roads appeared to be sufficiently substitutable for motorists. However, the close 
proximity of some of the existing Transurban-controlled roads and WestConnex 
led the ACCC to examine the impact of the acquisition on competition between 
toll roads.   
                                                 
6 See for example, Unsolicited Proposals, Guide for Submission and Assessment, NSW Government, August 2017, 
page 3. 


 
Page 11 of 18 
55. The ACCC considered whether there were certain origin/destination 
combinations where WestConnex was likely to be a substitute for other toll roads 
for motorists. The ACCC considered that these origins and destinations are likely 
to be certain geographic areas (e.g. Sydney CBD, Hills District, etc.) rather than 
exact entry and exit points of toll roads.  
56. Examples of relevant origin/destination combinations are provided in the 
competition analysis section below.  
Public roads  
57. The ACCC recognised that un-tolled public roads could sometimes be a 
substitute for toll roads, depending on the circumstances of each 
origin/destination route in question and the time of travel.  
58. However, the ACCC considered that un-tolled alternate routes are generally 
unlikely to provide a close substitute for toll roads. The ACCC’s analysis 
indicated that the proportion of motorists that would readily substitute between 
public roads and toll roads in the Sydney region is typically very small. This is 
likely because toll prices appear to be set well below the level that would lead a 
large number of motorists to switch to using a public road instead given the 
travel time benefits of using the toll road.  
Future with and without the acquisition  
59. Section 50 of the Act prohibits mergers or acquisitions that would have the effect 
or be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
In assessing a proposed acquisition pursuant to section 50, the ACCC considers 
the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future state of competition if 
the acquisition proceeds (the “with” position) to the likely future state of 
competition if the acquisition does not proceed (the “without” position) to 
determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to substantially lessen 
competition in any relevant market. 
60. The ACCC’s analysis was conducted on the assumption that if the proposed 
acquisition by Transurban did not proceed, the WestConnex concessions would 
be acquired by an alternative bidder. This would result in another entity holding 
three significant toll road concessions in NSW. The competition implications of 
this are discussed below.  
Competition for future toll road concessions 
61. As was noted above, a key competition issue considered by the ACCC was the 
impact the proposed acquisition would have on the level of competition for future 
toll road concessions in NSW. In particular, the ACCC focused on whether the 
proposed acquisition would lessen competition by:  
 
strengthening Transurban’s incumbency advantages to such an extent that 
other parties would be reluctant to compete for future toll road concessions, 
and/or  


 
Page 12 of 18 
 
preventing a rival bidder from gaining similar incumbency advantages (given 
the significant size of WestConnex) and therefore competing more 
vigorously for future toll road concessions.  
62. The ACCC examined four sources of such incumbency advantages: 
 
exclusive access to data from existing NSW toll roads 
 
traffic modelling capability and expertise, due to ownership of existing NSW 
and other toll roads 
 
lower costs of finance based on the perception of financiers (debt providers 
and equity partners) that Transurban has significant exclusive data and 
superior traffic modelling capability 
 
strong position to negotiate unsolicited proposals with the NSW 
Government.  
63. The ACCC also recognised that the NSW Government has significant 
countervailing power which may limit any lessening of competition for future toll 
road concessions.  
Traffic data 
64. Transurban’s exclusive data includes traffic count data from toll gantries on its 
NSW toll roads, which is not available to competitors for toll road concessions. 
This data is used by Transurban for calibrating and validating its Sydney traffic 
model. The ACCC considered that this was likely to give Transurban a 
competitive advantage when bidding for toll NSW road concessions due to: 
 
Transurban having greater confidence in its forecasts because of its ability 
to use this data to validate and calibrate its models 
 
the perception of financiers that Transurban has access to exclusive data 
that makes its forecasts more reliable, which leads to lower finance costs for 
Transurban compared to its rivals. 
65. During the WestConnex bid process, rival bidders obtained access to induction 
loop count data for Transurban’s toll roads, but not gantry count data. Loop 
count data is less accurate and reliable than gantry count data. 
66. Some market participants claimed that Transurban could use additional data 
from toll gantries as part of the traffic modelling process to calculate trip patterns. 
For example, in theory, the specific details and times of individual trips, and the 
time taken to travel, can be calculated from gantry data. However, the ACCC 
found that Transurban does not currently use gantry data for this process.  
Further, there are other substitutable sources of data (e.g. TomTom data) for 
travel time information.   
67. The ACCC concluded that the only exclusive data that gives Transurban a 
competitive advantage is traffic count data from Transurban’s toll gantries. This 
data enables Transurban to calibrate and validate its Sydney traffic model with 
greater confidence, which gives Transurban and financiers more confidence in 
the model’s revenue forecasts compared to the estimates from other potential 


 
Page 13 of 18 
bidders, which ultimately allows Transurban to access finance on more 
favourable terms than its competitors. 
68. The additional exclusive data that Transurban has access to, such as individual 
trip data, is unlikely to provide Transurban with any competitive advantage, is not 
currently used by Transurban for traffic modelling, and there are alternative 
sources of this data available.  
69. As discussed below in the Undertaking section, the section 87B undertaking 
accepted by the ACCC ensures that Transurban’s exclusive traffic count data 
from the toll gantries on its toll roads will be published. This will give others 
access to Transurban’s gantry data and enable potential bidders for future NSW 
toll road concessions to calibrate and validate their traffic models to the same 
level of confidence as Transurban.  
Traffic Modelling 
70. In relation to traffic modelling, the ACCC noted that Transurban commits 
significant resources to its own in-house traffic modelling capabilities, including 
employing traffic modelling experts on a full time basis. Some market 
participants considered that this gives Transurban a significant advantage over 
its competitors when bidding for toll road concessions. Unlike competing bidders 
for future toll road concessions, Transurban has an operating model of Sydney 
traffic that has been used and refined over time. It appears that Transurban and 
its financial backers have greater confidence in the traffic forecasts predicted 
compared to other bidders, which impacted Transurban’s costs of finance. 
71. Rival bidders for projects like WestConnex do not always have in-house 
modelling capabilities and rely on third parties for their traffic modelling and 
forecasting, which can be more time consuming than doing modelling in-house. 
However, overseas companies with experience in constructing and operating toll 
roads, such as Cintra, do have their own in-house modelling teams.  
72. Although industry participants perceive Transurban’s modelling capabilities to be 
significantly superior to the modelling of its competitors, the ACCC found that 
Transurban’s modelling expertise and models could be matched by competitors 
because: 
 
there is a large pool of global traffic modelling experts that Transurban’s 
competitors could employ to conduct modelling, and 
 
the models used by rival bidders for WestConnex were similar to 
Transurban’s in terms of methodology and data inputs.  
73. Therefore, the ACCC considered that modelling capabilities were not likely to be 
a significant barrier to bidding for future toll road concessions.   
74. The ACCC considers, however, that if rival bidders do not have sufficient time to 
develop models and do not have access to reliable data, Transurban’s modelling 
capabilities are likely to provide it with a competitive advantage when compiling 
bids for future toll road concessions. 


 
Page 14 of 18 
75. The ACCC considers that the NSW Government could and should allow enough 
time for rival bidders to engage traffic modelling expertise and build a reliable 
traffic model when running tender processes for future toll road concessions.  
 
Financiers’ perceptions  
76. The ACCC found that financiers, including debt providers and equity partners, 
perceive that Transurban has significant exclusive data and superior traffic 
modelling capability, leading to lower costs of finance for Transurban.   
77. The section 87B undertaking to publish the exclusive data (discussed further 
below) which Transurban uses in its modelling will assist in addressing these 
perceptions. In relation to perceptions about Transurban’s superior traffic 
modelling capability, the ACCC considers that this is largely driven by 
Transurban’s history of successful investments in toll roads (and the experiences 
of some other toll road concession holders around Australia who have failed to 
accurately forecast traffic causing financial difficulties).  
78. While these perceptions do give Transurban an advantage, it is an advantage 
that arises from a history of making investments which are perceived as sound 
by the industry, not market power from its existing assets. Competition policy is 
concerned about the exercise of market power rather than a business being 
successful on its merits.     
Leveraging existing toll roads to make successful unsolicited proposals 
79. The ACCC considered whether the proposed acquisition would further 
strengthen Transurban’s ability to leverage its existing toll road assets to submit 
successful unsolicited proposals to the NSW Government.  
80. The ACCC’s primary concern was whether the proposed acquisition would 
cement Transurban as the only party likely to make successful unsolicited 
proposals for new toll road concessions in NSW. If an alternative bidder acquired 
WestConnex, then there would be two major toll road companies in NSW who 
could potentially compete via unsolicited proposals.  
81. The outcome of unsolicited proposals is ultimately at the discretion of the State 
Government. Transurban is the only entity to have an unsolicited proposal 
accepted in Australia for the construction of a new toll road since the 
construction of the Sydney Harbour Tunnel was completed in 1992. Recent 
examples include NorthConnex in NSW (2014) and West Gate Tunnel in Victoria 
(2017). However, the ACCC is aware of the NSW Government rejecting multiple 
unsolicited proposals from Transurban and other toll road operators.  
82. The ACCC considered that whoever was successful in acquiring WestConnex 
would likely gain some advantage in acquiring certain future toll road 
concessions in NSW, in particular those that connect to WestConnex. The 
ACCC is also of the view that Transurban and the NSW Government would be 
less likely to consider extending existing concessions as part of future unsolicited 
proposals as the concession end dates for all Transurban-controlled toll roads in 


 
Page 15 of 18 
NSW are so far into the future (earliest end date is December 2035)7 that the 
revenue from these assets at the end of these concessions is very uncertain. 
NSW Government countervailing power and improvements governments can 
make to encourage more competition for toll roads in future 
83. The ACCC considers that, as the sole vendor of toll road concessions in NSW, 
the NSW Government has significant power when deciding whether and how to 
enter into transactions for toll road concessions, and how to incentivise 
competition for concessions. 
84. There are several ways in which the NSW Government can exercise its 
countervailing power to level the playing field for a given toll road concession 
and facilitate a competitive market for toll road concessions. The sale of 
WestConnex itself demonstrates some of the ways in which the Government can 
encourage competitive bids for toll road concessions. WestConnex was sold as 
a partially completed project, which lessened some of the risks faced by bidders, 
thereby encouraging competitive bids. In addition, the NSW Government 
provided access to the SMC traffic model and some exclusive traffic data, 
prohibited bidders from securing debt finance on an exclusive basis and 
prohibited the leveraging of existing toll road assets as part of any bid.  
85. However, further improvements to sales processes and policy settings would 
further level the playing field in future.  
86. The ACCC considers that other parties are able to build models and obtain 
modelling expertise that are comparable to those of Transurban, but only if the 
State Government allows enough time in its process. The ACCC therefore 
considers that the NSW Government should ensure that bidders have sufficient 
time to construct, calibrate and validate their models when formulating toll road 
concession bid processes. Otherwise the NSW Government risks not having a 
genuinely competitive bid process. 
87. The ACCC found that competitive bid processes for new toll roads are more 
likely to lead to positive outcomes for taxpayers and motorists compared to new 
toll roads awarded through the unsolicited proposal process.  
88. The guidelines published by the NSW Government for unsolicited proposals, 
which are subject to change at the State’s discretion, place significant weight on 
the “uniqueness” of an unsolicited proposal. The ACCC considers that this 
criterion allows discretion in its interpretation.  
89. The ACCC considers that it is not appropriate for competition law to deal with 
issues that a government can readily resolve. The ACCC therefore considers 
that unsolicited proposals should only be accepted by governments in truly 
unique circumstances that benefits taxpayers, such as where a toll road operator 
proposes to upgrade their existing toll road, and that the uniqueness criterion 
should be applied restrictively to ensure the best outcome for taxpayers. 
                                                 
7 Excluding the M5 Motorway concession, which after it ends in December 2016 will transfer to the WestConnex 
concession. 


 
Page 16 of 18 
90. Other measures that the NSW Government and other state governments could 
implement include: 
 
where possible, ensuring that gantry count data (and any other relevant data 
held by toll road operators) is shared with rival bidders for future toll road 
concessions  
 
including data sharing obligations in future toll road concessions and, where 
possible, amending existing concessions 
 
while concessions remain as currently drafted, seeking consent for data 
sharing early in the bid process, and not imposing strict requirements on 
rival bidders in order to access that data. 
Conclusions on competition for toll roads 
91. The ACCC considered that, with the undertaking data commitments (discussed 
below) competition would be sufficient for future toll roads, such that the 
proposed acquisition will not substantially lessen competition.  
92. While Transurban does have incumbency advantages due to ownership of other 
roads, the undertaking assists in addressing these advantages. The ACCC did 
not consider that (after taking into account the section 87B undertaking data 
commitments) any decrease in competition for future toll roads was sufficient to 
cause a substantial lessening of competition in breach of section 50 of the Act. 
Furthermore, the NSW Government has countervailing power and can make 
changes to further improve competition for toll roads in future.  
Undertakings 
93. The section 87B undertakings given by Transurban require it to publish traffic 
data that will assist all bidders to compete for future toll road concessions and 
allow them to calibrate and validate their traffic models to a similar level of 
confidence as Transurban. 
94. As discussed above, bidders with existing toll road concessions have 
incumbency advantages in acquiring further ones. If a rival consortium acquired 
WestConnex, there would have been only two players with these advantages in 
Sydney. However, with the undertakings, all potential bidders will be able to 
calibrate and validate their models to the same level of confidence as 
Transurban for new toll road concessions in NSW.  
95. The undertakings accepted by the ACCC require Transurban to: 
 
publish 15-minute-interval traffic count gantry data for all NSW toll roads in 
which Transurban has an interest, except the M5 West Motorway 
 
publish a more aggregated traffic dataset for the M5 West Motorway, if 
Transurban is unable to publish the more detailed gantry data for that toll 
road 
 
publish historical traffic data dating back 10 years (from the Control Date as 
defined in the undertaking) for each Transurban NSW toll road 


 
Page 17 of 18 
 
publish an interim update to data in the event the NSW Government 
announces a future NSW toll road concession sale process and the data is 
not due to be updated within six weeks 
 
correct any identified errors in the published data 
 
appoint an auditor, who would be required to conduct comprehensive audits 
of Transurban’s compliance with the undertaking. 
96. The undertaking does not require Transurban to publish data that it obtains 
through its toll road concessions but does not use in its traffic modelling and 
forecasts, such as individual trip data that shows the duration and length of trips 
on toll roads. Reliable individual trip data is available from other sources, such as 
TomTom and Google. However there are review mechanisms in the undertaking 
to ensure that the undertaking remains effective in achieving its objectives. 
97. The ACCC also accepted undertakings from the other STP consortium members 
to support Transurban’s undertaking. The undertakings from them require those 
consortium members to give their consent to allow Transurban to publish 
WestConnex and other relevant traffic data pursuant to Transurban’s 
undertaking. 
Road-on-road competition  
98. The ACCC also analysed the potential impact of the proposed acquisition on 
competition to supply toll road services to drivers. The ACCC focussed on 
whether there was the potential for competition between some of Transurban’s 
existing toll roads and WestConnex that could potentially lead to lower tolls or 
higher levels of service if they had separate ownership.  
99. Competition between toll roads could result in tolls below the cap or improved 
services (e.g. reliability, user experience, payment mechanism, incident 
response, customer service). Although toll road concession deeds generally 
specify maximum charges that can be levied on motorists, they do not prevent 
price competition below the cap.  
100. The ACCC considered that, in order for WestConnex and another toll road to be 
treated as substitutable, it would be relevant to consider whether or not a 
proportion of motorists making certain trips (i.e. certain origin/destination 
combinations) would choose one toll road in response to a price drop or increase 
in the service quality (e.g. levels of traffic congestion management, how safe or 
clean the road is) over another toll road. 
101. The ACCC analysed: 
 
whether each category of road users (e.g. motorcyclists, passenger 
vehicles, taxis, vans and trucks) might be willing to substitute between the 
two networks; and8 
                                                 
8 For example, trucks are prohibited from or may be too large to use some public roads, and tolls represent a small 
proportion of the total cost of operating the vehicle. Therefore, trucks are likely to use the quickest route 
irrespective of the price of tolls and un-tolled public roads are unlikely to be a substitute. 


 
Page 18 of 18 
 
how the time of day can influence the route choices made by road users and 
the potential for substitution.9 
102. The ACCC identified two main routes that had the potential to be substitutes for 
some road users given their proximity to each other: 
 
Transurban’s Lane Cove Tunnel/M2/M7 and the WestConnex M4 
 
Transurban’s Eastern Distributor and the WestConnex M4-M5 Link. 
103. Based on information from market participants, including traffic modelling results, 
the ACCC concluded that the proposed acquisition was unlikely to substantially 
lessen competition for the following reasons:  
 
there is unlikely to be a significant degree of substitutability of Transurban 
and WestConnex toll roads for any categories of road users and therefore 
the contestable market is likely to be very small 
 
given the number of contestable road users is small relative to the total 
number of road users of these segments, it was unlikely that any potential 
harm arising from the loss of potential road-on-road competition would be 
substantial 
 
Transurban was unlikely to have the ability to target those road users for 
whom Transurban and WestConnex toll roads are substitutes (i.e. they 
would not be able to price discriminate to a significant extent) 
 
the toll caps are well below the profit maximising tolls that would be used if 
there were no caps. Therefore, even if competition might lead to a small 
reduction in tolls at certain times or for certain trips if a hypothetical situation 
where tolls were un-capped (and the toll companies could set tolls at 
whatever level they wanted), the caps mean that no reduction in tolls is 
likely. 
Conclusion 
104. Based on the above analysis, the ACCC concluded that the proposed acquisition 
of WestConnex by STP, in conjunction with the data publication undertakings, 
would not be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in 
any market. 
                                                 
9 For example, some motorists use toll roads in the morning for their trip to work due to the greater time certainty 
associated with travelling on a tolled road, but do not use the toll road for the return trip home.  
