 
1 
 
 
 
Statement of Issues 
 
17 May 2018 
Sydney Transport Partners – proposed acquisition of a 
majority interest in WestConnex  
Purpose 
1. 
Sydney Transport Partners (STP), a consortium in which Transurban Group 
(Transurban) has a majority interest, proposes to acquire a majority interest in the 
WestConnex toll road project in Sydney (the proposed acquisition). 
2. 
This Statement of Issues: 
 
gives the preliminary views of the Australian Competition and Consumer 
Commission (ACCC) on competition issues arising from the proposed acquisition;  
 
identifies areas of further inquiry; 
 
provides all interested parties with an opportunity to comment; and 
 
invites interested parties to submit comments and information to assist our 
assessment of the issues. 
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views 
3. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in 
section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions 
that would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of substantially lessening 
competition in any market. 
4. 
The ACCC divides its preliminary views into three categories, 'issues of concern', 'issues 
that may raise concerns' and ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’.  For this matter, there 
are two ‘issues that may raise concerns’ and two ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’. 


 
2 
 
Issues that may raise concerns 
Competition for toll road concessions  
5. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition may substantially lessen 
competition for concessions to construct, own and/or operate toll roads in NSW or 
nationally.  
6. 
Incumbent toll road operators have significant advantages in bidding for subsequent 
concessions. Advantages arise due to control of detailed traffic data and the ability to 
leverage existing concessions when seeking new concessions.   
7. 
Transurban (or a Transurban-controlled entity) holds 15 of 19 toll road concessions in 
Australia and seven of nine concessions in NSW. Transurban’s resulting incumbency 
advantages are evidenced, for example, by the fact that Transurban is the only entity 
that has been granted a toll road concession in Australia on the basis of unsolicited 
proposals to a state government since 1987.1  
8. 
If the acquisition does not proceed, the ACCC considers that an alternative bidder will 
likely acquire WestConnex. Given the significant size of WestConnex (which comprises 
three separate tolling concessions and 33km of motorway), this will mean there will be 
two major toll operators in Sydney (Transurban and the alternative acquirer of 
WestConnex). These two operators will likely compete strongly for future toll roads. On 
the other hand, if the proposed acquisition proceeds, it will both strengthen the 
incumbency advantages that Transurban currently holds for acquiring toll road 
concessions and prevent the establishment of a large rival toll road operator. 
9. 
In considering these issues, the ACCC understands that the NSW Government is able 
to constrain Transurban to some extent. The ACCC is continuing to consider whether 
the NSW Government is sufficiently likely to exercise any such ability, such that 
competition concerns are not likely to arise.   
Competition between toll roads  
10. The ACCC is also concerned that the proposed acquisition may substantially lessen 
competition in the markets for the supply of road services to motorists on various 
origin/destination combinations in the Sydney region.  
11. The sale of WestConnex may present an opportunity to establish competition between 
toll roads in the Sydney region. The ACCC considers that WestConnex and some of the 
existing Transurban-controlled toll roads may be substitutable for motorists on certain 
origin/destination combinations. If an alternative bidder were to acquire WestConnex, it 
would likely impose competitive constraint on existing Transurban-controlled toll roads, 
and vice versa. Tolls may be lowered due to this competition, and/or service levels 
(such as in relation to congestion management) increased.  
Issues unlikely to raise concerns 
12. At this stage, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition would be 
unlikely to substantially lessen competition in the market for the supply of electronic 
tolling services to motorists in NSW. Currently Transurban and NSW Roads and 
Maritime Services (RMS) both have a significant e-tag customer base in NSW. While 
                                               
1 A joint venture between Transfield and Kumagai Gumi was granted the Sydney Harbour Tunnel concession in 1987 following 
an unsolicited proposal to the NSW Government in 1986.  


 
3 
 
the proposed acquisition may increase Transurban’s e-tag customer base, as some new 
users of toll roads may purchase a Transurban e-tag in order to travel on WestConnex, 
the ACCC’s preliminary view is that this increase is unlikely to be material. 
13. It is also the ACCC’s preliminary view that the proposed acquisition would be unlikely to 
substantially lessen competition in the market for the supply of specialised engineering 
services for toll roads. It appears that these services form part of a broader national 
market for infrastructure construction services, in which there are a number of other 
significant acquirers of these services.  
Making a submission 
14. The ACCC is seeking submissions from interested parties, particularly on the following 
key issues: 
 
the nature and size of incumbency advantages and how they manifest, for example, 
in an enhanced ability to acquire further concessions to construct, own and/or 
operate toll roads;  
 
whether the proposed acquisition would further strengthen Transurban’s 
incumbency advantages in obtaining more toll road concessions in NSW or 
nationally; 
 
the impact on competition of a non-Transurban entity acquiring WestConnex;  
 
the extent to which the NSW Government would have the ability and incentive to 
constrain Transurban post-acquisition; and 
 
the extent to which WestConnex may be a substitute for the existing Transurban-
controlled toll roads for motorists on some origin/destination combinations, and the 
extent to which the operators of these roads may compete if WestConnex were 
acquired by an alternative bidder. 
15. Detailed discussion of these and other issues, along with specific questions, is 
contained in this Statement of Issues.  
16. Interested parties should provide submissions by no later than 5pm on 31 May 2018. 
Responses may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: “Submission re: 
STP/WestConnex - attention Tim Byrne/Daniel McCracken-Hewson’. If you would like to 
discuss the matter with ACCC officers over the telephone or in person, or have any 
questions about this Statement of Issues, please contact Tim Byrne on (03) 9658 6440 
or Daniel McCracken Hewson on (03) 9290 1482.  
17. The ACCC anticipates making a final decision by 19 July 2018, however, this timeline 
can change. To stay up to date with changes to the timeline and to find relevant 
documents, interested parties should visit the Mergers Register on the ACCC's website 
at www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
Confidentiality of submissions 
18. The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We will not 
disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled 
by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or during court 
proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition and Consumer Act 


 
4 
 
2010.  Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, the ACCC will 
notify you in advance where possible so that you may have an opportunity to be heard.  
Therefore, if the information provided to the ACCC is of a confidential nature, please 
indicate as such. Our Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more 
information on confidentiality. 
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’ 
19. A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a proposed 
acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing attention to particular 
issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well as identifying the lines of 
further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
20. A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and consider 
the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide the parties to 
the proposed acquisition and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 
Timeline 
 
Date 
Event 
26 February 2018 
ACCC commenced review under the Merger Process 
Guidelines. 
19 March 2018 
Closing date for submissions from interested parties. 
6 April 2018 
Former proposed decision date of 26 April delayed to allow 
provision of requested information from the Sydney Transport 
Partners Consortium.  
20 April 2018 
ACCC received further information from the Sydney Transport 
Partners Consortium. 
17 May 2018 
Release of Statement of Issues. 
31 May 2018 
Closing date for submissions relating to Statement of Issues. 
19 July 2018 
Proposed date for announcement of ACCC’s decision. 
 
The parties 
Sydney Transport Partners  
21. STP comprises Transurban as the majority interest holder, and AustralianSuper Pty Ltd, 
Canada Pension Plan Investment Board (CCPIB) and Tawreed Investments Limited as 
minority interest holders.  


 
5 
 
Transurban  
22. Transurban is listed on the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX), and is Australia’s 
largest toll road operator. Transurban’s operations include the development, ownership, 
management and operation of toll roads in Australia and the United States. Transurban 
(or a Transurban-controlled entity) holds 15 of 19 toll road concessions in Australia and 
seven of nine concessions in NSW.2  
23. In NSW, Transurban holds a majority interest in the following toll roads:   
 
the M2 Motorway; 
 
the Lane Cove City Tunnel;  
 
the Cross City Tunnel; and 
 
the M1 Motorway (Eastern Distributor).  
24. It also holds a 50 per cent share in the following NSW toll roads:   
 
the NorthConnex Motorway;  
 
the M5 Motorway; and 
 
the M7 Motorway.  
25. In addition to its toll road assets, Transurban has interests in electronic tolling service 
providers that provide electronic tolling and tag issuing services under a number of 
brands. In NSW, Transurban has an interest in the E-way, Roam and Transurban Linkt 
brands.  
26. Transurban also has agreements to provide tolling services to the Sydney Airport 
Corporation Limited, Interlink and WSO Co Pty Limited. 
Other consortium members  
27. Other STP consortium members also have direct or indirect minority interests in a 
number of toll road assets in NSW or elsewhere in Australia. AustralianSuper has 
minority interests in Transurban and Transurban Queensland. CCPIB has indirect, 
minority interests in the M7 and NorthConnex motorways, and Tawreed has a minority 
interest in Transurban Queensland.  
WestConnex   
28. WestConnex is a partially completed motorway development in Sydney. The Sydney 
Motorway Corporation (SMC) currently holds, through a trust structure, the three 
concessions to build, operate and toll the motorways. SMC’s shares are held by the 
NSW Government. 
29. WestConnex comprises approximately 33 kilometres of interconnected motorways and 
road upgrades, which will improve and extend the M4 motorway from Parramatta to 
Sydney Airport and duplicate the M5 East corridor. It is being completed in three 
                                               
2 The two non-Transurban controlled concessions are for the Sydney Harbour Tunnel (held by Kumagai Gumi, Tenix Group and 
Transfield Services) and the Sydney Harbour Bridge (held by the NSW Government).  


 
6 
 
separate stages, each of which has (or will have) a tolling concession. These 
concessions will run until 2060.  
 
Stage 1 involves the concession rights in respect of the WestConnex M4.  
 
Stage 2 involves the concession rights in respect of WestConnex M5, including the 
New M5 motorway, the M5 East and the M5 West.  
 
Stage 3 involves the concession rights in respect of the WestConnex M4 – M5 Link, 
the Rozelle Interchange and Iron Cove Link (see Map 1 below).  
Map 1 – WestConnex toll roads 
 
The proposed transaction 
30. The NSW Government is conducting a competitive tender process for WestConnex. The 
winning bidder will acquire a 51 per cent interest in the three WestConnex concessions.    
Industry background 
Toll roads in Australia 
31. Toll road concessions are typically long-term contractual arrangements between a toll 
road operator and the relevant state government under which the operator constructs, 
operates and/or maintains a toll road in return for the right to collect toll revenue from 
motorists using the toll road to which the concession relates. The concession deeds 
differ from road to road. For example, there might be a different pricing structure 
depending on the size and nature of the toll road or different prescriptions as to the level 


 
7 
 
of administrative fees that can be levied on motorists. Generally, toll road concessions 
set the maximum price that the toll road operator can charge motorists for using the toll 
road.  
32. Toll road concessions have in the past generally been awarded following a competitive 
bid process. However, toll road concessions can also be awarded in response to an 
unsolicited proposal. An unsolicited proposal is a proposal from a private entity to a 
state government in relation to an infrastructure project for which the government has 
not requested proposals. In relation to toll roads, an unsolicited proposal can be for 
either a toll road that has been identified as a potential project by the relevant state 
government, or a proposal for a toll road that has not previously been identified by the 
government. A number of state governments have published guidelines for making 
unsolicited proposals.3 
33. Transurban has been awarded the following five toll road concessions or toll road 
upgrade projects after submitting unsolicited proposals to the relevant state 
governments:  
 
NorthConnex (NSW) (March 2014): awarded to Transurban in exchange for an 
extension of the M7/Lane Cove Tunnel concessions and an increase to the heavy 
vehicle multiplier on these toll roads;  
 
CityLink upgrades (VIC) (August 2015): awarded to Transurban in exchange for an 
extension of the CityLink concession: 
 
Logan Enhancement Project (Qld) (November 2016): awarded to Transurban in 
exchange for an increase to the heavy vehicle multiplier on the Logan and Gateway 
Motorways;  
 
Inner City Bypass Upgrade (Qld) (March 2017): awarded to Transurban in exchange 
for an increase to the heavy vehicle multiplier on the Go Between Bridge, the Clem 
Jones Tunnel and Legacy Way; and  
 
West Gate Tunnel (VIC) (December 2017): awarded to Transurban in exchange for 
an extension of the CityLink concession.  
Electronic tolling  
34. All toll roads in Australia employ Electronic Tolling Collection (ETC) technology to 
capture the information of vehicles that travel on the roads. Motorists must use an 
electronic tag (e-tag) or a pass (e.g. where a video image is taken of the motorist’s 
licence plate and an invoice sent post-transaction) when driving on toll roads. These e-
tags and passes allow a toll road’s ETC infrastructure to capture a vehicle’s travel on the 
toll road. A vehicle’s trip data captured by tolling gantries on the toll roads will be passed 
to “back-end” trip processing systems which will validate trips and convert this to a toll 
charge. 
35. In the next step, the toll charge information will be passed to the issuer of the e-tag or 
pass for collection of payment. E-tag issuing entities may or may not be linked to a 
particular toll road. E-tag issuing entities have accounts with motorists, issue motorists 
with e-tags or passes, and bill and collect payments from motorists for their use of toll 
                                               
3 For example, Unsolicited Proposals, Guide for Submission and Assessment, NSW Government, August 2017; Market-led 
Proposals Guideline, Victorian Government, November 2017; Market-Led Proposal Guidelines, July 2017, Queensland 
Treasury. 


 
8 
 
roads. Systems set up to manage e-tags and customer accounts are commonly referred 
to as C3 infrastructure. This infrastructure is separate from ETC systems.  
36. In summary, when a motorist travels on a toll road with an e-tag or pass, the ETC 
infrastructure captures the trip and calculates the toll, and the motorist is then billed by 
the issuing entity using its C3 infrastructure.  
Interoperability and roaming fees 
37. All existing owners and operators of toll roads in Australia are signatories to the 
Memorandum of Understanding – Electronic Toll Collection (MOU) in respect of ETC 
systems. Provision exists for new concession holders to become a party to the MOU. 
The principal object of the MOU is to ensure that each toll road operator employs an 
ETC that is interoperable with the ETC systems operated by each other party to the 
MOU, thus to enable all e-tags to be used on all toll roads. A number of concession 
deeds also explicitly require interoperability.  
38. The MOU requires toll road operators to enter into bilateral “roaming agreements” with 
each other tag issuer, which govern the provision of interoperability between the 
contracting parties.  
39. The MOU and roaming agreements provide a general right for parties to recover the 
“reasonable costs” of providing interoperability. This is done through the imposition of a 
roaming fee.  
40. Roaming fees are levied by e-tag issuers when their e-tags are used for travel on a non-
aligned toll road (i.e. a road where the concession is not held by the e-tag issuer or the 
issuer’s affiliated entity). The purpose of the roaming fee is to reimburse the costs 
incurred by an e-tag issuer in providing interoperability, including costs for the collection 
and remission of relevant toll revenues. Roaming fees charged by e-tag issuers are 
borne by toll road operators and, under provisions of the relevant concessions deeds, 
cannot be passed on to motorists. That means motorists travelling on toll roads are 
charged the same rates, regardless of whether they use an e-tag issued by the toll road 
operator or an e-tag from another issuer. 
41. The MOU does not specify the actual level of roaming fees. Rather, this roaming fee is 
determined by bilateral negotiation between the relevant parties.  
42. As a general rule, the more e-tag customer accounts an entity holds, the more roaming 
fees it is likely to receive, and on the other hand, the more toll roads an entity controls, 
the more roaming fees it is likely to pay.  
Previous ACCC decisions 
Transurban’s proposed acquisition of BrisConnections  
43. On 26 November 2015, the ACCC decided not to oppose Transurban’s proposed 
acquisition of BrisConnections. The ACCC considered the acquisition in the markets for 
the supply of electronic tolling services to motorists, the supply of tolling services to 
holders of toll road concessions, and the bidding market for the award of concessions 
for toll road construction and operation. The ACCC concluded that the proposed 
acquisition was unlikely to substantially lessen competition in any relevant market.  


 
9 
 
Transurban’s proposed acquisition of the Queensland Motorway Group  
44. On 4 April 2014, the ACCC decided not to oppose Transurban’s proposed acquisition of 
the Queensland Motorway Group. The ACCC considered the acquisition in the market 
for the supply of tolling services to holders of toll road concessions and in the national 
bidding market for the award of concessions for toll road construction, ownership and/or 
operation. The ACCC found that the proposed acquisition was unlikely to substantially 
lessen competition in either of these markets.  
Transurban’s proposed acquisition of Connector Motorways Group 
45. On 20 April 2010, the ACCC decided not to oppose Transurban’s proposed acquisition 
of Connector Motorways Group. The ACCC considered the proposed acquisition in the 
context of the markets for the provision of electronic tolling services to motorists in New 
South Wales, the provision of tolling services to toll roads in New South Wales, and toll 
road construction and ownership in Australia. The ACCC found that the proposed 
acquisition was unlikely to substantially lessen competition in any of these markets.  
Transurban’s proposed acquisition of Sydney Roads Group 
46. On 8 March 2007, the ACCC decided not to oppose Transurban’s proposed acquisition 
of Sydney Roads Group. The ACCC considered the potential impact of the proposed 
acquisition on the market for toll road construction and ownership, and the market for 
provision of tolling services to motorists. The ACCC found that the proposed acquisition 
was unlikely to substantially lessen competition in either of these markets.   
Future with and without the acquisition  
47. Section 50 of the Act prohibits mergers or acquisitions that would have the effect or be 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. In assessing 
a proposed acquisition pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC considers the 
effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future state of competition post-
acquisition if the acquisition proceeds (the “with” position) to the likely future state of 
competition if the acquisition does not proceed (the “without” position) to determine 
whether the proposed acquisition is likely to substantially lessen competition in any 
relevant market. 
48. If the proposed acquisition by STP does not proceed, the ACCC considers it likely the 
WestConnex concessions would be acquired by an alternative bidder. This would result 
in another entity holding three significant toll road concessions in NSW. The competition 
implications of this are discussed below.  
Market definition 
49. The ACCC’s starting point for delineating relevant markets, to assess the competitive 
effects of the proposed acquisition, involves identifying the products and geographic 
regions actually or potentially supplied by the parties to the transaction. The ACCC then 
focuses on areas of activity where competitive harm could occur as a result of the 
proposed acquisition.  
50. The ACCC is considering the impact of the proposed acquisition on competition for: 
 
concessions to construct, own and/or operate toll roads in NSW or nationally;  


 
10 
 
 
the supply of road services to motorists for various origin/destination combinations in 
the Sydney region; 
 
the supply of electronic tolling services to motorists in NSW or nationally; and  
 
the supply of specialised engineering services for toll roads.  
51. The relevant markets for analysing these issues are discussed below. 
Market for toll road concessions 
52. In its previous assessment of acquisitions of toll road assets, the ACCC applied a 
national bidding market for toll road construction, ownership and/or operation.4 This 
market definition should be viewed in the context of those specific acquisitions at the 
time. As noted by the Courts, the identification of a market in any given case is generally 
purposive and directed to the problem or issue at hand.5 In the present case, the 
ACCC’s preliminary view is that the market for toll road concessions includes 
concessions that are acquired following a competitive bidding process as well as 
concessions that may be obtained through unsolicited proposals. The ACCC is also 
considering whether the geographic dimension of the market is likely to be national or 
state-based. 
Whether unsolicited proposals are part of the market for toll road concessions 
53. The ACCC previously considered toll road acquisitions in a bidding market for toll road 
concessions. At the time of these previous decisions, the impact of unsolicited proposals 
on competition for future toll road projects was not raised as a significant issue. 
However, during this review, market participants have raised concerns that the 
proposed acquisition would give Transurban an increased ability to offer to develop and 
operate new toll roads through unsolicited proposals to the NSW government.  
54. The ACCC is considering whether an unsolicited proposal is a separate and distinct 
unilateral approach to the state government that does not involve a market or 
competition. At this stage, the ACCC considers that unsolicited proposals are not 
isolated from competitive bidding processes for toll road concessions. Unsolicited 
proposals and bidding processes are both mechanisms for obtaining toll road 
concessions and when assessing an unsolicited proposal, it is open to the government 
to decide whether to proceed with the proposal or to conduct a competitive bidding 
process instead.6 The possibility of the government conducting a competitive bidding 
process necessarily places a degree of constraint on unsolicited proposals. Therefore, 
the ACCC’s preliminary view is that all methods of obtaining toll road concessions, 
however sought or granted, form part of the market. 
Geographic dimension  
55. The ACCC is considering whether the geographic dimension of the market is national or 
state-based.  
                                               
4 See for example, Transurban Consortium: Proposed acquisition of the assets of the Queensland Motorways Group (ACCC 
Mergers Register reference #53791), 4 April 2014; Transurban consortium – proposed acquisition of BrisConnections 
including the AirportLinkM7 toll road in Brisbane (ACCC, Mergers Register reference #58422), 26 November 2015.    
5 Australian Competition and Consumer Commission v Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Limited [2015] FCAFC 103 at 
[136]; Flight Centre Limited v Australian Competition and Consumer Commission [2015] FCAFC 104 at [118]. 
6 See for example, Unsolicited Proposals, Guide for Submission and Assessment, NSW Government, August 2017, page 3.  


 
11 
 
56. The ACCC has previously considered a national market. The ACCC understands that 
toll road developers and operators (both actual and potential) are effectively able to 
compete for toll road concessions from any location in Australia (or internationally), as 
there is generally no requirement for toll road operators to have any established 
infrastructure or other associated assets in the relevant state where the toll road is to be 
developed. These factors point towards the market being national.  
57. However, as stated above, the identification of the relevant market needs to be directed 
to the problem or issue at hand. In the present case, given the key competition concerns 
relating to the acquisition of toll road concessions appear to be state-specific, it is 
possible that the relevant market is state-based. As discussed in detail below, the ACCC 
is concerned that the proposed acquisition will prevent the establishment of a new, 
strong rival incumbent toll road operator in NSW. Further, market participants have 
raised concerns that the proposed acquisition would increase Transurban’s ability to 
have unsolicited proposals accepted by the NSW Government by leveraging its toll road 
assets in NSW. Market participants have also raised concerns that the proposed 
acquisition would increase Transurban’s holding of NSW-specific traffic data, and that 
this would increase Transurban’s ability to accurately model traffic flows for future toll 
road opportunities in NSW, thereby increasing Transurban’s advantage in competing for 
future toll road concessions in NSW.  
58. The ACCC considers that Transurban’s increased incumbency advantages from the 
proposed acquisition (relating to unsolicited proposals or traffic data) relate primarily to 
NSW. However, Transurban (or a Transurban-controlled entity) holds 15 of the 19 toll 
road concessions Australia-wide, and the proposed acquisition could increase 
Transurban’s competitive advantages in acquiring toll road concessions across 
Australia.   
59. For these reasons, the ACCC is still considering whether the relevant geographic 
dimension is state-based or national.  
Market for the supply of road services to motorists  
Whether there exist markets in which WestConnex and other toll roads may compete  
60. The ACCC has not previously considered competition between toll road operators as 
part of a review of toll road concession acquisitions. This was because no two toll roads 
previously considered by the ACCC appeared to be sufficiently substitutable for 
motorists.  
61. In the present case, market participants have stated that the sale of WestConnex 
presents an opportunity to establish competition between toll road operators in the 
Sydney region, and that the proposed acquisition may foreclose competition between 
WestConnex and the existing Transurban-controlled roads. However, the ACCC is also 
considering whether each toll road is a separate market for providing toll road services 
to motorists meaning that WestConnex will not compete with existing Transurban-
controlled toll roads in the Sydney region.  
62. At this stage, the ACCC considers that there may be markets for the supply of road 
services in the Sydney region in which WestConnex and some of the existing 
Transurban-controlled roads compete.  
63. A key element in considering whether there are such markets is whether WestConnex 
may be a substitute for other toll roads for motorists on some origin/destination 
combinations. The ACCC considers that these origins and destinations are likely to be 


 
12 
 
certain geographic areas (e.g. Sydney CBD, Hills District, etc.) rather than exact entry 
and exit points of toll roads.  The ACCC considers that in order for WestConnex and 
another toll road to be treated as substitutable, it will be relevant to consider whether or 
not a proportion of motorists in the relevant origin/destination combinations would 
choose a toll road in response to a price increase or a drop in service quality (e.g. levels 
of traffic congestion management, how safe or clean the road is) at another toll road. 
64. Examples of relevant origin/destination combinations are provided in the competition 
analysis section below. 
Whether public roads are part of the markets  
65. The ACCC is considering whether un-tolled alternate routes provide logistical choices 
and impose constraints on toll roads. Market inquiries indicate that in the Sydney region, 
public roads do not provide a material or sufficient constraint on toll roads as they are 
more congested, move traffic materially slower, and provide less predictable travel 
times. In addition, much heavy freight is prevented from using parts of the public 
network by regulation. 
66. In the present case, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that generally public roads are 
unlikely to be substitutable for WestConnex or the existing Transurban-controlled roads. 
However, this will depend on the circumstances of each origin/destination route in 
question, and the ACCC is still considering the constraint imposed on different routes by 
public roads. Also, the ACCC’s preliminary view does not preclude a scenario where a 
route comprising both a toll road and a public road may be a substitute for another toll 
road for a particular origin/destination combination and therefore they may belong to the 
same market. 
Market for supply of electronic tolling services to motorists  
67. The product dimension of the market for the supply of electronic tolling services 
provided by e-tag issuers is e-tags issued to motorists and the management of 
motorists’ accounts. The ACCC considers that the geographic dimension of the market 
is state-based. While the interoperability arrangements between toll road operators 
means that an e-tag issued in one state may be used on a toll road in another state, the 
ACCC understands motorists in a state rarely purchase an e-tag from another state in 
order to travel on toll roads in their home state. 
Market for the supply of specialised services for toll roads.   
68. Some market participants have stated that Transurban is the near-monopoly acquirer of 
certain specialised engineering services for toll roads (e.g. road tunnel operation and 
maintenance services), and that the proposed acquisition would increase Transurban’s 
position as an acquirer of these services. 
69. The ACCC is considering whether toll road operators participate in a segment of the 
broader market for the acquisition of infrastructure construction services, and whether 
this market is national or state-based. At this stage, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that 
the supply of specialised engineering services for toll roads forms part of a broader 
national market for infrastructure construction services.  


 
13 
 
Issues that may raise concerns: impact on competition for toll 
road concessions  
Overview of competition concerns 
70. The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition may substantially lessen 
competition for concessions to construct, own and/or operate toll roads in NSW or 
nationally. 
71. Given the scale and geographic positioning of WestConnex, the proposed acquisition 
would significantly increase Transurban’s holding of toll road concession assets in NSW 
(and nationally). The proposed acquisition would also prevent the establishment of a 
new, strong rival incumbent toll road operator that would otherwise gain some 
incumbency advantages of the kind held by Transurban and be well-placed to compete 
strongly for future toll road concessions.  
72. Transurban leverages advantages from its existing toll road assets to acquire further toll 
road concessions, either through competitive tender processes or by unsolicited 
proposals to state governments. Market participants have raised concerns that the 
proposed acquisition would further strengthen Transurban’s incumbency advantages to 
such an extent that its competitors would effectively be foreclosed from competing for 
future toll road concessions in NSW, regardless of whether concessions were granted 
following a competitive tender process or an unsolicited proposal.  
73. The ACCC is continuing to assess the extent to which the proposed acquisition would 
increase Transurban’s incumbency advantages in acquiring toll road concessions. In 
particular, the ACCC is considering the extent to which the proposed acquisition would 
strengthen Transurban’s: 
 
ability to offer unsolicited proposals that are accepted by the NSW Government;  
 
access to traffic data that is crucial for bidding for future toll roads; and 
 
potential ability to set high roaming charges. 
74. These issues are discussed in turn below.  
Unsolicited proposals 
Unsolicited proposals for toll road concessions  
75. The NSW Government’s Unsolicited proposals: Guide for submission and assessment 
(the NSW Guide) sets out the criteria a private entity must meet when submitting an 
unsolicited proposal in NSW. A key criterion is the “uniqueness” of the proposal. In 
effect, a proposal will be deemed to be unique when, on the whole, it is not capable of 
being delivered by other suppliers.  
76. While the NSW Guide does not limit what can be considered “unique”, the ACCC 
understands that Transurban is the only entity since 1987 that has been awarded a toll 
road concession following an unsolicited proposal in NSW and elsewhere in Australia,7 
and that its successful proposals have involved leveraging its existing toll roads assets 
                                               
7 A joint venture between Transfield and Kumagai Gumi was granted the Sydney Harbour Tunnel concession in 1987 following 
an unsolicited proposal to the NSW Government in 1986. 


 
14 
 
as a “unique” feature.8 In particular, the ACCC understands that Transurban can offer 
“unique” proposals to the NSW Government that are partly financed by:  
 
the extension of the term of an existing concession over an existing toll road;  
 
an increase in tolls or toll multipliers on existing concessions; and/or  
 
an agreement to waive contractual remedies or rights to redress under existing 
concession deeds.  
77. Market participants have submitted that such proposals may be attractive to the 
government because they result in much lower upfront costs incurred by the 
government.  
Impact of the proposed acquisition on unsolicited proposals  
78. At the moment, Transurban appears to be the only entity that has a realistic chance of 
submitting “unique” unsolicited proposals to the NSW Government that leverage existing 
toll roads. Following the proposed acquisition, Transurban would have more toll road 
assets to leverage for unsolicited proposals for future toll roads.  
79. In addition, the ACCC understands that unsolicited proposals are more likely to be 
accepted if the proposal has a physical connection with an existing toll road of the entity 
making the proposal.  Some market participants have stated that WestConnex connects 
with some of the potential future toll roads that the NSW Government is considering and 
the proposed acquisition would therefore increase Transurban’s ability to secure 
concessions for those toll roads through unsolicited proposals.  
80. Some market participants have also stated that the proposed acquisition would increase 
Transurban’s access to traffic data that are needed to evaluate potential new toll road 
opportunities and therefore increase its ability to submit unsolicited proposals for new 
toll road concessions. 
81. On the other hand, if the proposed acquisition did not proceed and another bidder 
acquired the WestConnex concessions, there would be another entity holding significant 
toll road concession assets in NSW. In this scenario, there would be another entity in 
addition to Transurban that could leverage existing toll roads to submit unsolicited 
proposals to the NSW Government. This entity would be able to submit “unique” 
unsolicited proposals in competition with Transurban. In addition, the entity would be 
more likely to submit unsolicited proposals for road designs that are beneficial to the 
NSW Government but are not in Transurban’s interests (e.g. because they would 
reduce traffic flows on Transurban’s existing toll roads). 
Government’s powers and incentives to constrain Transurban 
82. The ACCC considers that as a sole vendor of toll road concessions in NSW, the NSW 
Government is likely to have significant power when entering into transactions for toll 
road concessions. In addition, the NSW Government has the ability to place restrictions 
around the conduct of toll road operators.  
83. The NSW Government sets the criteria for assessing unsolicited proposals and has 
control over the assessment of unsolicited proposals for toll road concessions (including 
                                               
8 In Victoria, the criterion is also referred to as “uniqueness”. See the Victorian State Government’s Market-led Proposals 
Guideline (November 2017), pages 11 and 14. In Queensland, the criterion is referred to as “justification for direct 
negotiation”. See the Queensland Government’s Market-Led Proposal Guidelines (July 2017), page 5.  


 
15 
 
deciding whether to accept or decline the unsolicited proposal, and whether to conduct a 
competitive tender process instead of accepting a proposal). The NSW Guide states 
that “the Government will generally only consider proposals where both the proposal 
and its proponent have unique attributes such that others could not deliver a similar 
proposal with the same value-for-money outcome”.9 The NSW Guide also states that 
“where the Government assesses a proposal as not meeting the criteria, including 
uniqueness, the Government reserves its usual right to go to market”.10  
84. The ACCC is further considering the extent of the NSW Government’s powers to 
constrain Transurban. Critically, the ACCC is also considering the extent to which the 
NSW Government is likely to use its powers to constrain Transurban, taking into 
account the incentives it faces.   
Traffic data  
85. In modelling the value of future toll road concessions, data about current traffic on 
existing roads is required for forecasting traffic demand for future roads. Therefore, 
traffic data is a key input for any potential acquirer when seeking to obtain a toll road 
concession.  
86. Market participants have stated that Transurban already has a significant incumbency 
advantage in relation to traffic data. They are concerned that this incumbency 
advantage would be further strengthened if Transurban were to acquire WestConnex, 
and that the proposed acquisition would prevent the establishment of a rival incumbent 
toll road operator that generates significant traffic data. 
87. Transurban (or a Transurban-controlled entity) currently holds seven of the nine toll road 
concessions in NSW. This gives Transurban a large amount of precise data about traffic 
flows on existing toll roads, which can be used to forecast traffic demand for a future 
road. In addition, Transurban has a large e-tag customer base through its E-Way, 
Roam, and Transurban Linkt e-tag brands, which gives Transurban a large amount of 
information about individual toll road users. Market participants have stated that in 
forecasting traffic demand for future toll roads, this information about individual users 
can be combined with traffic flow data Transurban holds, to allow Transurban to analyse 
toll road users’ travel patterns with reference to their demographics and places of 
residence or business.  
88. Market participants are concerned that the proposed acquisition would increase the two 
sets of traffic data that Transurban holds. Post-acquisition, Transurban would have more 
toll roads to generate traffic flow data. Also, post-acquisition, Transurban’s e-tags would 
be generating data over a significantly expanded road network and give Transurban 
enhanced ability to analyse toll road users’ travel patterns.  
89. The ACCC understands that Transurban’s competitors for toll road concessions in NSW 
have access to certain traffic data provided by the NSW Government or RMS, as well as 
certain aggregate traffic data made publicly available by Transurban. The ACCC 
considers it is likely that post-acquisition, other potential acquirers of future toll road 
concessions would continue to receive these types of traffic data for their evaluation of 
future concessions. 
90. However, market participants have stated that they currently do not, and for future toll 
road concessions would not be able to, have access to more granular level data about 
                                               
9 Unsolicited Proposals, Guide for Submission and Assessment, NSW Government, August 2017, p. 3.  
10 Ibid.  


 
16 
 
traffic flows on Transurban-controlled toll roads (e.g. data about entry and exit locations 
and time for each trip), which would enable them to produce more accurate traffic 
forecasts. Market participants have also stated that they currently do not, and for future 
toll road concessions would not, have access to the data about individual e-tag users 
held by Transurban’s e-tag business. As such, it is likely that for all future toll road 
concession opportunities in NSW, Transurban would hold significantly more detailed 
and accurate traffic data than its competitors.  
91. The ACCC is assessing the importance of various types of traffic data in evaluating toll 
road concessions, and the extent to which the proposed acquisition would increase 
Transurban’s advantage in competing for future toll road concessions through its 
increased holding of traffic data.  
92. The ACCC is also considering the extent to which the NSW Government is likely to 
constrain Transurban post-acquisition in relation to its use of traffic data. In particular, 
the ACCC is considering whether the NSW Government has both the ability and 
incentive to reduce Transurban’s incumbency advantages by requiring it to make more 
of its traffic data available to other potential acquirers of future toll roads, through 
amendments to existing concession deeds or through legislation.  
Roaming fees  
93. Market participants have raised concerns about the effect of the proposed acquisition on 
roaming charges and the potential impact of higher roaming charges on competition for 
future toll road concessions. 
94. Market participants have noted that Transurban currently controls a large number of toll 
road concessions in NSW and has a significant e-tag customer base. Market 
participants are concerned that this may give Transurban incentives to set higher 
roaming fees, and also give it bargaining power in negotiating roaming fees. 
Competitors for toll road concessions must factor in roaming fee costs when evaluating 
future concessions. In addition, the potential for Transurban to increase roaming fees is 
a risk that must be priced into evaluations. As a result, market participants have stated 
that they are in a disadvantageous position when competing with Transurban for toll 
road concessions.  
95. Market participants have raised the concern that the proposed acquisition would 
increase Transurban’s bargaining power and its ability to raise roaming fees and 
therefore further disadvantage other bidders in competition for future toll road 
concessions.  
96. The ACCC is considering the extent to which, as mandated by the MOU entered into 
between all toll road operators in Australia, roaming fees are a form of cost recovery for 
operators to ensure interoperability between Australian toll roads. The ACCC is also 
considering whether Transurban has the incentive or ability to derive profit from these 
fees, and the materiality of roaming fees in the overall development and operation of a 
new toll road.   
97. The ACCC understands that as a general rule, the more e-tag customer accounts an 
entity holds, the more roaming fees it is likely to receive, and the more toll roads an 
entity controls, the more roaming fees it is likely to pay. In NSW, Transurban may 
receive significant amounts of roaming fees due to its large e-tag customer base. On the 
other hand, RMS also has a significant e-tag customer base in NSW, and therefore 
Transurban as a holder of a large number of toll road concessions is likely to be a payer 
of significant amounts of roaming fees. This is likely to continue to be the case post-


 
17 
 
acquisition. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that this may limit Transurban’s ability and 
incentive to charge higher roaming fees post-acquisition. However, the ACCC is further 
investigating this issue.  
98. The ACCC is also further considering whether the NSW Government, through toll road 
concession deeds or through legislation, has the incentive to limit increases to roaming 
fees. 
Invitation for comments 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the above issues. In particular, 
market participants may wish to comment on the following: 
a. the extent to which the proposed acquisition would increase Transurban’s ability to obtain 
toll road concessions in NSW or nationally in competitive tender processes, and how it 
would do so; 
b. the impact of a non-Transurban entity acquiring WestConnex on competition to construct, 
own and/or operate toll roads in NSW or nationally 
c. the extent to which the proposed acquisition would increase Transurban’s ability to submit 
successful unsolicited proposals to the NSW Government, and how it would do so;  
d. whether entities that do not hold toll road concessions in NSW could submit successful 
unsolicited proposals for toll road concessions in NSW; 
e. whether having two major toll road operators in Sydney would result in competing 
unsolicited proposals being submitted to the NSW Government (potentially with designs 
that are contrary to the interests of the other operator);   
f. the ability and incentive for the NSW Government to constrain Transurban’s incumbency 
advantages in relation to winning toll road concessions via competitive tender processes 
or unsolicited proposals;  
g. the importance of various types of traffic data in evaluating toll road concession 
opportunities; 
h. whether Transurban’s holding of traffic data provides it with an advantage in competing 
for toll road concessions, and the extent to which the proposed acquisition would increase 
such an advantage; 
i. the ability and incentive for the NSW Government to compel Transurban to provide more 
detailed traffic data to other potential acquirers of toll road concessions; 
j. whether roaming fees represent a material cost in the overall development and operation 
of a toll road; 
k. whether the proposed acquisition will increase Transurban’s ability or incentive to 
increase roaming fees; and 
l. whether the NSW Government has the ability and incentive to limit increases in roaming 
fees.  


 
18 
 
Issues that may raise concerns: impact on potential 
competition between toll roads in the Sydney region  
99. 
As discussed above, the ACCC considers that WestConnex and some of the existing 
Transurban-controlled toll roads may be substitutable with each other, and therefore 
may competitively constrain each other.  
100. Toll road concession deeds generally specify maximum charges that can be levied on 
motorists, but do not prevent price competition below the cap. If it is established that 
WestConnex and an existing Transurban-controlled toll road are substitutable, the 
proposed acquisition could foreclose competition on price and service levels (e.g. level 
of traffic congestion) between the operators of these toll roads.  
101. The ACCC is considering whether it is commercially realistic for a toll road operator to 
charge motorists tolls that are lower than the maximum amount permitted to be 
charged under the relevant concession deed, and therefore whether there would be 
price competition between toll roads if WestConnex were awarded to an alternative 
bidder. The ACCC understands that there are a number of international examples 
where motorists have received discounts as a result of competition between toll road 
operators. 
102. As per Map 2 below, WestConnex will provide east-west and north-south routes in the 
Sydney region, and may potentially be substitutable for the Transurban-controlled M2, 
M7, Eastern Distributor and Cross City Tunnel toll roads.  
Map 2 – WestConnex and Transurban-controlled roads (Sydney region) 
 
103. The ACCC is further assessing the extent to which WestConnex may be substitutable 
for the existing Transurban-controlled roads for a number of origin/destination 
combinations, including those listed in Table 1 below.  


 
19 
 
Table 1 – Origin/destination combinations  
Origin 
Destination  
Sydney CBD 
Parramatta CBD / 
Blacktown 
Sydney CBD 
Sydney Airport 
Sydney CBD 
Badgery’s Creek Airport 
Sydney CBD / Sydney 
Airport 
Central NSW 
Hills District / 
Macquarie Park 
Hume Highway  
Badgery’s Creek 
Airport / Western 
Sydney 
Sydney Airport 
Hills District / 
Macquarie Park 
Sydney Airport 
St Mary’s intermodal 
terminal (IMT) 
Sydney CBD 
Moorebank IMT / Minto 
IMT 
North Sydney / Macquarie 
Park  
Western Sydney IMT 
Sydney CBD 
Bankstown IMT / 
Botany IMT 
Sydney CBD 
Bankstown IMT / 
Botany IMT 
Parramatta CBD / 
Blacktown 
 
104. The ACCC notes that some market feedback has indicated that while WestConnex 
may give some motorists hypothetical alternative journeys via more than one toll road, 
it will not materially affect traffic flows on Transurban’s existing toll roads in Sydney.  
105. The ACCC is also considering the extent to which providing high quality service 
maximises traffic flows and therefore whether toll road operators are incentivised to 
provide high quality service even in the absence of competition.  


 
20 
 
Invitation for comments 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the above issues. In particular, 
market participants may wish to comment on the following: 
a. the extent to which WestConnex may be a substitute for any of the M1, M2, M5, M7, 
Lane Cove City Tunnel, Cross City Tunnel or NorthConnex motorways for motorists on 
some origin/destination combinations; and 
b. if WestConnex were awarded to an alternative bidder, the extent to which this alternative 
bidder would compete with Transurban for contestable motorists.    
Issues unlikely to raise concerns  
Supply of electronic tolling services to motorists  
106. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that it is unlikely that the proposed acquisition would 
substantially lessen competition in the market for the supply of electronic tolling 
services to motorists in NSW.  
107. The ACCC understands that currently Transurban and RMS both have a significant e-
tag customer base. The ACCC also understands that RMS’ e-tag business will not be 
sold as part of the bidding for WestConnex.  
108. While the proposed acquisition may increase Transurban’s e-tag customer base as 
some new users of toll roads may purchase a Transurban e-tag in order to travel on 
WestConnex, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that this increase is unlikely to be 
material, as the ACCC understands that motorists’ holding of e-tag accounts in Sydney 
is close to saturated. Therefore, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed 
acquisition is unlikely to have a significant competition impact on the market for the 
supply of electronic tolling services to motorists in NSW. 
Supply of specialised services for toll roads  
109. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that it is unlikely that the proposed acquisition will 
substantially lessen competition in the supply of specialised engineering services for 
toll roads. This is because, as mentioned above, it appears that these services form 
part of a broader national market for infrastructure construction services, in which there 
are a number of significant acquirers in addition to Transurban. 
Invitation for comments 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the above issues. In particular, 
market participants may wish to comment on the following: 
a. the extent to which the proposed acquisition may increase Transurban’s e-tag customer 
base and impact on competition for the supply of electronic tolling services to motorists 
in NSW; and 
b. whether specialised engineering services for toll roads form part of the broader market 
for infrastructure services or are a separate market. 


 
21 
 
ACCC's future steps 
As noted above, the ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on each of the 
issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that may be relevant to 
the ACCC's assessment of this matter. Submissions are to be received by the ACCC no 
later than 31 May 2018 and should be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au. In the subject line 
of the email, please include the following words “Submission re: STP-WestConnex - 
attention Tim Byrne/Daniel McCracken-Hewson”. 
The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions invited by this 
Statement of Issues. 
The ACCC intends to announce its final view by 19 July 2018. However, the anticipated 
timeline may change in line with the Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines. A Public 
Competition Assessment for the purpose of explaining the ACCC's final view may be 
published following the ACCC's public announcement to explain its final view. 
 
 
