 
1 
 
 
Public Competition Assessment 
27 August 2014 
Healthscope Limited – proposed acquisition of the 
Brunswick Private Hospital 
Introduction 
1. 
On 12 June 2014, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) 
announced its decision to oppose the proposed acquisition by Healthscope Limited 
(Healthscope) of the Brunswick Private Hospital owned by Healthe Care Pty Ltd 
(Healthe) (proposed acquisition). 
2. 
The ACCC decided that the proposed acquisition would be likely to have the effect 
of substantially lessening competition in a market in contravention of section 50 of 
the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the Act). 
3. 
The ACCC made its decision on the basis of the information provided by the parties 
to the acquisition (the parties) and information arising from its market inquiries. 
This Public Competition Assessment outlines (subject to confidentiality 
considerations) the basis on which the ACCC has reached its decision on the 
proposed acquisition. 
Public Competition Assessment 
4. 
To provide an enhanced level of transparency in its decision making process, the 
ACCC issues a Public Competition Assessment for all transactions reviewed by the 
ACCC where: 
 
an acquisition is opposed; 
 
an acquisition is subject to enforceable undertakings; 
 
the parties to the acquisition seek such disclosure; or 
 
an acquisition is not opposed but raises important issues that the ACCC 
considers should be made public. 
5. 
This Public Competition Assessment has been issued because the proposed 
acquisition was opposed by the ACCC. 
6. 
By issuing Public Competition Assessments, the ACCC aims to provide the public 
with a better understanding of the ACCC's analysis of various markets and the 


 
2 
 
associated merger and competition issues. Public Competition Assessments can 
also alert the public to circumstances where the ACCC’s assessment of the 
competition conditions in particular markets is changing, or likely to change. 
7. 
Each Public Competition Assessment is specific to the particular transaction under 
review by the ACCC. While some transaction proposals may involve the same or 
related markets, it should not be assumed that the analysis and decision outlined in 
one Public Competition Assessment will be conclusive of the ACCC’s view in 
respect of other transaction proposals, as each matter will be considered on a case-
by-case basis. 
8. 
Public Competition Assessments outline the ACCC’s principal reasons for forming 
views on a proposed acquisition at the time the decision was made. As such Public 
Competition Assessments may not definitively identify and explain all issues that 
the ACCC considers arise from a proposed acquisition. Further, the ACCC’s 
decisions generally involve consideration of both non-confidential and confidential 
information provided by the parties and market participants. In order to maintain 
confidentiality, Public Competition Assessments do not contain any confidential 
information nor identify its sources. 
The parties 
The acquirer: Healthscope Limited 
9. 
Healthscope was formed in 1985 and provides private hospital, medical centre and 
pathology services across Australia. It has a portfolio of 44 private hospitals 
nationwide which includes three hospitals operated on behalf of the Adelaide 
Community Healthcare Alliance.  
10. Healthscope was listed on the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX) in 1994. In 
October 2010, Healthscope Limited was acquired by a consortium comprising funds 
advised and managed by private equity firms The Carlyle Group and TPG, and was 
subsequently de-listed from the ASX.  
11. Healthscope operates several hospitals in the Melbourne area including: 
 
John Fawkner Private Hospital in Coburg, a 147 bed major surgical, medical 
and emergency hospital; 
 
Melbourne Private Hospital in Parkville, a 124 bed hospital offering various 
general medical and surgical services; 
 
Northpark Private Hospital in Bundoora, a 153 bed hospital providing surgical, 
medical, mental health, maternity and nursery services; 
 
Cotham Private Hospital in Kew, a 60 bed hospital providing surgical, general 
medical and rehabilitation services; 
 
Dorset Rehabilitation Centre in Pascoe Vale (Dorset), a 30 bed rehabilitation 
facility; 
 
North Eastern Rehabilitation Centre (NERC) in Ivanhoe, a 46 bed rehabilitation 
facility; and 


 
3 
 
 
The Victorian Rehabilitation Centre in Glen Waverley, a 143 bed rehabilitation 
facility providing an extensive range of inpatient and outpatient services 
including an acquired brain injury unit.   
The target: Brunswick Private Hospital 
12. 
Brunswick Private Hospital (Brunswick Private) is a 128 bed hospital located in 
Brunswick, a suburb in northern Melbourne. Brunswick Private offers rehabilitation 
services and general medical services. Currently, 98 beds are allocated to 
rehabilitation services and 30 beds are allocated to general medical services.  
13. 
Brunswick Private’s general medical service offering provides accommodation and 
services for patients being treated by doctors and specialists in the following 
areas: 
 
General practice 
 
Cardiology 
 
Psychiatry  
 
Respiratory 
 
Rheumatology 
14. 
The rehabilitation services offered at Brunswick Private consist of both inpatient 
and outpatient facilities and include treatment from rehabilitation physicians and 
specialist rehabilitation nurses, as well as allied health professionals (e.g. 
physiotherapists, occupational therapists and speech pathologists).  
The seller: Healthe Care Pty Ltd 
15. 
Healthe was formed in 2005 and it employs approximately 4,000 people across a 
portfolio of 14 hospitals in Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria and 
Tasmania.  Healthe was acquired by Archer Capital, an Australian private equity 
firm, in June 2011. 
16. 
In Melbourne, Healthe operates the Brunswick Private Hospital, La Trobe Private 
Hospital, the Valley Private Hospital, and South Eastern Private Hospital.1 
Other industry participants  
17. 
The following private hospital groups also provide private general medical, 
surgical and/or rehabilitation services in Melbourne: 
 
Epworth HealthCare 
 
Cabrini Health 
 
St Vincent’s Private Hospital 
 
Ramsay Health Care 
                                                 
1 On 2 June 2014, Healthe Care announced that it will close the La Trobe Private Hospital on 
29 August 2014. 


 
4 
 
Epworth HealthCare 
18. 
Epworth HealthCare is a major private not-for-profit hospital group in Victoria. Its 
hospital network covers all major surgical specialities.  In Melbourne Epworth 
has hospitals in the following locations:  
 
Richmond;  
 
East Melbourne; 
 
Hawthorn; 
 
Camberwell;  
 
Box Hill; and 
 
Brighton.  
19. Epworth offers rehabilitation services from its Richmond, Hawthorn, Camberwell 
and Brighton hospitals. Epworth’s Richmond and Camberwell hospitals also have 
rehabilitation beds dedicated to treating patients with acquired brain injuries.  
St Vincent’s Private 
20. St Vincent’s Private has three hospital campuses in Melbourne: 
 
Fitzroy – a surgical hospital with approximately 100 beds co-located with St 
Vincent’s Public Hospital;  
 
St Vincent’s Private East Melbourne (formerly the Mercy Hospital) – a hospital 
with approximately 100 general medical beds and 17 rehabilitation beds; and 
 
St Vincent’s Private Kew – a surgical hospital with 75 general medical beds. 
Ramsay Health Care 
21. Ramsay Health Care is the largest private hospital group in Australia. Ramsay 
operates a number of hospitals in Melbourne including: 
 
Donvale Rehabilitation Centre; 
 
Warringal Private Hospital (in Heidelberg); and 
 
The Avenue Private Hospital (in Windsor).  
Cabrini Health 
22. Cabrini Health operates acute and rehabilitation hospitals and aged care and 
palliative care facilities in the southern suburbs of Melbourne. Its hospital facilities 
include:  
 
Cabrini Hospital Malvern; 
 
Cabrini Hospital Brighton; and 


 
5 
 
 
Cabrini Rehabilitation Service Elsternwick.  
The proposed acquisition 
23. Healthscope proposed to acquire the Brunswick Private Hospital from Healthe. The 
proposed acquisition was interdependent with the sale by Healthscope of the 
Brisbane Waters Private Hospital to Healthe. The ACCC conducted a separate 
public review of Healthe’s proposed acquisition of Brisbane Waters Private Hospital 
and on 16 April 2014 announced it would not oppose that proposed acquisition.  
Review timeline 
24. The following table outlines the timeline of key events in this matter. 
22 January 2014 
ACCC commenced review under the Merger Process Guidelines. 
7 February 2014 
Closing date for submissions from interested parties. 
18 February 2014 
ACCC requested further information from the merger parties. 
28 February 2014 
ACCC received further information from the merger parties. ACCC 
amended former provisional date for announcement of findings (6 
March 2014). 
3 March 2014 
ACCC received further information from the merger parties.  
12 March 2014 
ACCC amended former provisional date for announcement of findings 
(13 March) following its review of additional information received from 
the merger parties on 3 March. 
27 March 2014 
ACCC published a Statement of Issues outlining preliminary 
competition concerns. 
10 April 2014 
Closing date for submissions relating to Statement of Issues. 
17 April 2014 
ACCC requested further information from the merger parties. 
5 May 2014 
ACCC received further information from the merger parties. Acquirer 
requested more time to provide further additional information. ACCC 
amended proposed date for announcement of final decision. 
21st May 2014 
Acquirer requested a delay of the former proposed decision date (22 
May) to allow for provision of further information.  
3 June 2014 
ACCC received further information from the acquirer. ACCC amended 
proposed decision date. 
12 June 2014 
ACCC announced it would oppose the proposed acquisition. 


 
6 
 
Market inquiries 
25. The ACCC conducted market inquiries with a range of industry participants and 
interested parties, including private hospitals, public hospitals, private health 
insurance funds, medical specialists and health professionals, including 
rehabilitation assessors and discharge planners.    
Statement of Issues  
26. The ACCC published a Statement of Issues on 27 March 2014. In the Statement of 
Issues the ACCC expressed the preliminary view that the proposed acquisition was 
likely to raise competition concerns in the market for the supply of private 
rehabilitation services to patients in the northern suburbs of Melbourne. In 
particular, the ACCC expressed concern that the proposed acquisition would result 
in the following effects in the market for the supply of private rehabilitation services 
to patients in the northern suburbs of Melbourne: 
 
the removal of a vigorous and effective competitor; 
 
the removal of Healthscope’s closest and only competitor; 
 
reduced incentives for Healthscope to invest in staff, specialists, facilities and 
rehabilitation programs;  
 
reduced incentives for Healthscope to admit ‘slow-stream’ rehabilitation 
patients. 
27. The ACCC also expressed the preliminary view that the proposed acquisition was 
unlikely to raise competition concerns in three other related markets: 
 
the supply of private hospital services (encompassing general medical and 
surgical services) to patients in the inner and northern suburbs of Melbourne;  
 
the supply of private hospital services (encompassing general medical and 
surgical services) to health funds. The ACCC considered that there are 
national, state-based and local elements to competition in this market; 
 
the supply of private rehabilitation services to health funds. As with private 
hospital services, the ACCC considered that there are national, state-based 
and local elements to competition in this market. 
Areas of overlap 
28. 
At the time of the review, Healthscope and Brunswick Private overlapped in the 
provision of private general medical services and private rehabilitation services 
in the northern suburbs of Melbourne. In the absence of the proposed 
acquisition, the ACCC considered that there was potential for Healthe to expand 
Brunswick Private and begin providing surgical services at that hospital.  In that 
event, Healthscope and Brunswick Private would also overlap in the provision of 
private surgical services.  


 
7 
 
Future with and without the proposed acquisition  
29. 
In assessing a proposed acquisition pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC 
considers the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future competitive 
environment if the acquisition proceeds (the “with” position) to the likely future 
competitive environment if the acquisition does not proceed (the “without” 
position) to determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to substantially 
lessen competition in any relevant market. 
30. 
The ACCC’s view was that absent the proposed acquisition (the “without” 
position), Healthe was likely to continue to operate Brunswick Private as an 
independent competitor in the relevant markets.  
Industry background 
Competition to attract doctors and patients  
31. 
Private hospitals provide a range of services to patients, with much of the 
demand for services generated by doctors on behalf of their patients. Hospitals 
therefore endeavour to provide an environment in which doctors are willing to 
refer or treat their patients. Accordingly, competition between hospitals to attract 
doctors and referrals by doctors is often viewed as a proxy for competition to 
attract patients. 
32. 
The activities that hospital owners engage in to attract doctors and referrals of 
patients often involve investment in facilities, equipment, medical professionals 
(including specialist doctors, nurses and allied health professionals) and support 
staff. In addition, hospital owners and managers make the necessary resources 
available to provide for and respond to the input of medical professionals 
regarding programs offered for the clinical care of patients. 
33. 
Competition between private hospitals for doctors is particularly prevalent with 
regards to specialists, such as surgeons, who are responsible for referring 
patients to, or treating patients in, private hospitals for various medical 
treatments.  
Private health insurance funds 
34. 
Most patients who attend private health facilities pay for the services they 
receive via private health insurance. Changes to private health insurance 
premiums are regulated by the federal government.  
35. 
Payments from private health funds (health funds) make up the vast majority of 
revenue earned by private hospitals. Most private hospitals and health funds 
have agreements known as Hospital Purchaser Provider Agreements (HPPAs). 
Private hospitals have equivalent agreements with the Repatriation Commission 
which are administered by the Commonwealth Department of Veterans’ Affairs. 
36. 
An HPPA is an agreement under which a health fund agrees with a private 
hospital operator that, if and when a member of the health fund presents for 
treatment at the private hospital, the hospital operator will provide services to the 
member to a specified standard and for a specified fee, and the operator can bill 
the health fund for the service (rather than billing the member).  
37. 
HPPAs help to minimise ‘gap’ or ‘out of pocket’ payments for a fund’s members.  
If a patient attends a private hospital which has an HPPA with the patient’s 
health fund, the patient will ordinarily not be required to make any payments for 


 
8 
 
their hospital accommodation (except for any excess or co-payment that the 
patient is liable to pay under their health insurance plan).  If a patient has private 
health insurance but is treated at a hospital that does not have an HPPA with the 
patient’s fund, the fund is required by legislation to pay at least ‘second tier’ 
benefits, provided that the hospital is appropriately registered.2  Lower minimum 
default benefits are payable if the hospital is not registered for second tier 
benefits. The patient may then, at the discretion of the private hospital, be 
required to pay the difference between the benefit paid by their fund and the 
hospital’s charges. 
38. 
An HPPA generally covers all the services provided by a hospital operator which 
the health fund has agreed to fund. HPPAs between a hospital operator and 
health fund are most commonly made on an ‘all-in’ or ‘all-out’ basis (i.e. either all 
of Healthscope’s hospitals are included in an HPPA with the health fund or none 
are). Therefore hospital operators with hospitals in multiple states tend to 
negotiate HPPAs with health funds on a national basis.  
39. 
The rates and other terms agreed in an HPPA are the result of negotiations 
between a hospital operator and a health fund, and therefore reflect the balance 
of bargaining power between the two parties. 
40. 
Most acute medical procedures (such as surgery) are charged as a fixed amount 
per procedure (known as a ‘case payment’) which is generally calculated with 
regard to the cost of the procedure and the average length of hospital stay 
associated with that procedure. Rehabilitation services (and psychiatric care 
services) are typically charged on a ‘per diem’ (daily) basis as the duration of 
care required is highly variable.  However, in some cases the case payment 
charged by a hospital to a health fund for an acute procedure will include a 
component for a period of rehabilitation which the patient may also require 
following the acute procedure.   
Rehabilitation hospitals  
41. 
Patients are typically referred to a rehabilitation hospital after receiving treatment 
at an acute surgical, general medical or emergency hospital department. 
Rehabilitation hospitals source patients either from upstream hospitals which are 
part of the same private or public network of hospitals, or via referrals from other 
hospital groups. Before a patient can be discharged from the originating hospital 
and referred for admission to a rehabilitation hospital, they will undergo an 
assessment to determine if they are suitable for admission into the rehabilitation 
hospital’s programs. These assessments are undertaken by a rehabilitation 
assessor.   
42. 
A rehabilitation assessor is connected to, and employed by, a particular 
rehabilitation hospital. A rehabilitation hospital commonly has a number of 
assessors depending on the number of rehabilitation beds at the hospital and the 
extent to which it needs to seek referrals from third party hospitals. An assessor 
is generally assigned a selection of referring hospitals that they will visit.   
43. 
The fundamental role of a rehabilitation assessor is to assess patients in order to 
determine a patient’s rehabilitation treatment needs, how long the patient is likely 
to need to stay in hospital, and whether they are suited to the rehabilitation 
hospital’s programs.  
                                                 
2 Private Hospitals are registered to provide and charge for hospital services by the 
Commonwealth Department of Health. 


 
9 
 
44. 
Additionally, rehabilitation assessors from private hospitals act as a promotional 
representative for their employing hospital, establishing relationships with the 
discharge planners of the hospitals they visit and endeavouring to attract 
referrals of patients.  
45. 
Market inquiries indicated that public hospitals also employ rehabilitation 
assessors; however their role is generally limited to assessing the condition and 
suitability of a patient for referral into the public rehabilitation hospital, rather than 
promoting the public hospital or attempting to attract patients from other 
hospitals.  
Promotion by the rehabilitation assessor 
46. 
The aspects of a rehabilitation facility that rehabilitation assessors promote to 
patients and referring hospital staff include: 
 location (relative to the patient’s home or family); 
 the ‘tailored’ nature of the hospital’s rehabilitation programs;  
 access to complementary facilities and medical staff which may be needed 
such as GPs and specialists including cardiologists, x-rays, pathology and 
dieticians; 
 the quality of the allied health team and the therapy provided; 
 whether the hospital is a modern facility with single rooms, ensuite 
bathrooms, outdoor areas, a gymnasium, hydrotherapy pool and other 
facilities where patients can work to regain physical function; 
 whether the hospital can admit patients on the same day as they are 
assessed (this is particularly attractive to the referring hospitals). 
47. 
As patients with third-party funding such as private health insurance are not 
usually required to pay for their rehabilitation treatment, competition between 
rehabilitation hospitals to attract patients and referrals from doctors is primarily 
not on the basis of price.  
Deciding where a patient is referred 
48. 
Market inquiries with a range of doctors, discharge planning staff and 
rehabilitation assessors indicated that the process for discharging a patient and 
referring them to a rehabilitation hospital can vary depending on the type of 
rehabilitation required by the patient, their place of residence (or that of their 
family/carer), and whether they have private health insurance (or some other 
source of third party funding). 
49. 
The medical staff at the discharging/referring hospital will first consider whether 
the patient has any specific needs that require specialised rehabilitation. This 
could include a serious acquired brain injury, amputation or severe spinal injury. 
If the patient does require specialised rehabilitation, they may have very limited 
options for rehabilitation (e.g. few private rehabilitation hospitals in Melbourne 
have acquired brain injury units). If the patient does not require specialised 
rehabilitation they will have more options available to them.  


 
10 
 
50. 
The majority of patients receiving rehabilitation at private hospitals require 
relatively straight-forward rehabilitation for post-acute procedures (particularly 
orthopaedic) or reconditioning after a period of hospitalisation. 
51. 
In the cases of planned surgery requiring subsequent rehabilitation, a patient’s 
choice of rehabilitation hospital can be arranged before they undergo their initial 
acute surgical procedure. These patients often have a number of days to talk to 
various rehabilitation assessors and decide where they will receive rehabilitation.  
52. 
Most industry participants considered that the patient’s preference of 
rehabilitation facility is always taken into consideration. A number of industry 
participants submitted that the patient has the ultimate decision as to where they 
go (within the range of hospitals with available beds and appropriate 
facilities/programs for that patient).  
53. 
Submissions from market participants were mixed in relation to the influence of 
the treating doctor as to which rehabilitation facility a patient is referred to. Some 
industry participants considered that doctors were highly influential with their 
recommendations while others considered that in many cases the doctors played 
no role in choosing a rehabilitation facility. 
54. 
A number of market participants considered that previous experiences or 
recommendations from friends or family who had previously received 
rehabilitation also influence a patient’s choice of rehabilitation facility. 
55. 
The vast majority of market participants considered that the location of a 
rehabilitation facility, relative to the patient’s place of residence (or that of their 
family) is a major determinant of the rehabilitation facility they are referred to.   
Market definition 
56. The ACCC assessed the impact of the proposed acquisition in the context of the 
following markets: 
i. 
The supply of private hospital services (encompassing general medical and 
surgical services) to patients in the inner and northern suburbs of Melbourne;  
ii. 
The supply of private hospital services (encompassing general medical and 
surgical services) to health funds.  As discussed below, the ACCC considers 
that there are national, state-based and local elements to competition in this 
market; 
iii. 
The supply of private rehabilitation services to patients in northern 
Melbourne; and 
iv. 
The supply of private rehabilitation services to health funds. As with private 
hospital services, the ACCC considers that there are national, state-based 
and local elements to competition in this market. 
57. 
Markets involving the supply of private hospital services to patients are generally 
local in their geographic scope (at least in metropolitan areas) as patients do not 
typically travel long distances to access private hospital services (except 


 
11 
 
perhaps for highly specialised services).3 The geographic dimensions of these 
markets are discussed further below. 
58. 
The ACCC considered that the health fund markets are likely to be broader in 
their geographic scope. Industry participants submitted that because HPPAs 
between private hospitals and health funds are predominately negotiated on a 
national basis (for private hospital operators with a multi-state presence), 
competition between hospital groups on a national and state/territory level is 
most relevant to the competitive dynamic for determining HPPA rate increases. 
However, some industry participants considered that local competition between 
private hospital operators is also a significant influence on HPPA rates. This is 
because, if a private hospital operator has a particularly strong position in a local 
area, a health fund that wishes to provide services to members in that area may 
have no choice other than to deal with that hospital operator.  The ACCC 
considered that national, state and local dimensions were relevant to the 
analysis of competition for the supply of private hospital services to health funds 
by Healthscope, the second largest private hospital operator in Australia.  
59. 
The above markets are the same as those outlined in the Statement of Issues, 
except for the geographic scope of market (iii), the market for the supply of 
private rehabilitation services to patients in the northern suburbs of Melbourne. 
This is discussed below. 
60. 
Markets (i), (ii), and (iv), were identified in the Statement of Issues as markets 
where the proposed acquisition was unlikely to raise concerns. Market inquiries 
following the Statement of Issues did not reveal any further information to 
change the ACCC’s views in relation to these markets and as such these are not 
considered further here.  
61. 
This Public Competition Assessment therefore focuses on the supply of private 
rehabilitation services to patients in the northern suburbs of Melbourne. 
Market for the supply of private rehabilitation services 
Product dimension of the market 
62. 
The ACCC considered the proposed acquisition in the context of a rehabilitation 
market with a product dimension that includes services provided to: 
 inpatients and outpatients with a range of rehabilitation requirements; 
 patients that are funded by a number of different third party sources. These 
are outlined at paragraph 67.  
63. 
The ACCC considered that the product dimension of the relevant rehabilitation 
market excluded services provided by: 
 public hospitals; and 
 private hospitals without dedicated rehabilitation offerings.  
                                                 
3 ‘Highly specialised’ hospital rehabilitation services include treatment of patients with acquired 
brain injuries and spinal injuries. 


 
12 
 
Rehabilitation services provided in hospitals 
64. 
Rehabilitation services provided in hospitals are ‘specialist’ services, which 
require a referral from a doctor. These are provided by a multi-disciplinary team 
of medical practitioners, allied health professionals and nurses. As such, they 
differ from services provided outside of a hospital setting, such as physiotherapy 
or speech therapy which patients can arrange without a medical referral.  
65. 
Rehabilitation services in hospitals can be offered as:  
 inpatient services: e.g. a 10-15 day stay in order to recover from a hip 
replacement surgery or an illness; or  
 outpatient services e.g. a patient may attend the hospital to see a variety of 
specialists to assist in the recovery from an injury or surgery.  
66. 
Rehabilitation facilities such as Brunswick Private, Dorset and NERC all provide 
both inpatient and outpatient services. The facilities necessary to provide 
inpatient and outpatient services are essentially the same, except for the 
overnight accommodation aspect of the service, which outpatients do not 
require.  
‘Chargeable’ patients 
67. 
Industry participants noted that private hospitals primarily treat patients who 
have their medical treatment funded by a third-party. These patients are referred 
to as ‘chargeable’ patients. The source of funding for these patients includes: 
 private health insurance funds; 
 the Repatriation Commission (through the Department of Veterans’ Affairs); 
 the Transport Accident Commission (for transport accident victims); and 
 the Workcover Authority (for people injured in the workplace).  
68. 
Industry participants indicated that private rehabilitation hospitals generally 
service any ‘chargeable’ patients, irrespective of their source of funding, 
provided they are equipped to meet an individual patient’s rehabilitation 
requirements, and the patient’s funding is sufficient to cover their anticipated 
period of rehabilitation. However, industry participants noted that some hospitals 
actively pursue referrals of patients with particular funding, such as TAC patients 
whose admissions are funded at higher rates and for longer periods of time than 
private health insurance typically provides. 
69. 
Industry participants also indicated that private hospitals had regard to the 
limitations of a patient’s funding before accepting the referral of a patient for 
rehabilitation. This particularly applies to patients whose third party funding 
source is private health insurance. For example, a number of market participants 
noted that most private health insurance policies have limits on the number of 
days of rehabilitation the fund will cover, commonly around four to five weeks. 
Further, the daily rate that a private hospital receives from the health fund for 
providing rehabilitation services to an inpatient is ‘stepped-down’ to a lower rate 
after around 14 days of treatment. As such, a number of industry participants 
submitted that private hospitals seek referrals of patients likely to require no 


 
13 
 
more than four weeks of rehabilitation and often aim to discharge patients within 
14 days before their funding rate is ‘stepped-down’.  
Public hospitals 
70. 
The ACCC notes there is overlap between rehabilitation services provided by 
private hospitals and those provided by the public system.  A number of public 
hospitals in Melbourne, such as the Royal Melbourne Hospital and the Austin 
Hospital, have rehabilitation facilities providing both inpatient and outpatient 
services which can be accessed by patients with private health insurance. 
However, data provided by industry participants indicated that only a small 
percentage of ‘chargeable’ patients receive rehabilitation treatment at public 
hospitals.   
71. 
The ACCC also had regard to data and information provided by a number of 
industry participants which illustrated that, on average, privately insured patients 
in public hospitals require significantly longer periods of rehabilitation than 
patients in private rehabilitation hospitals. This is linked to the fact that private 
hospitals target patients whose anticipated length of stay will be covered by their 
source of funding. Market inquiries indicated that patients whose rehabilitation 
requirements may exceed their available health insurance funding, such as 
patients who require more than four weeks of rehabilitation, will have difficulty in 
being accepted into a private rehabilitation hospital. As a result these patients 
often have to obtain rehabilitation services in a public hospital.  
72. 
The ACCC found that public hospitals have a financial incentive to admit 
chargeable patients and do take steps to encourage these patients to be 
admitted as such, particularly the TAC, Repatriation Commission and Workcover 
patients. For example, some public hospitals waive out-of-pocket costs for 
patients who agree to use their private health insurance in the public 
rehabilitation facility.  
73. 
However, public rehabilitation facilities typically face capacity constraints and 
there are often waiting lists for patients. As a result, market inquiries indicated 
that the primary consideration for discharge coordinators in acute public 
hospitals is to discharge eligible patients to private rehabilitation hospitals where 
possible. This enables public rehabilitation beds to be made available for non-
chargeable patients, or for privately insured patients whose period of 
rehabilitation exceeds their funding. Discharge coordinators value the fact that 
private rehabilitation hospitals are often able to move patients out of the acute 
ward more quickly than the public facilities.  Market inquiries indicated that where 
a public acute hospital was able to discharge a patient to a private rehabilitation 
hospital it would tend to do so, rather than seek to retain that patient in the public 
system. 
74. 
Industry participants also indicated that public hospitals are limited in their ability 
to reserve single rather than shared rooms for private patients, and can only do 
so subject to the medical needs of other patients. 
75. 
Market inquiries also indicated that public rehabilitation hospitals do not actively 
seek to admit patients from private acute hospitals, or from other public acute 
hospitals outside their geographic catchment area. Funding constraints also 
prevent the public hospitals from employing rehabilitation assessors to market 
their services in the way that private hospitals do. Accordingly, most privately 
insured patients are admitted to public rehabilitation facilities after having 
received acute care in the same hospital. 


 
14 
 
76. 
Having regard to the above factors, the ACCC considered that a significant 
proportion of patients with private health insurance who receive rehabilitation 
treatment in public hospitals are not contestable patients whom private hospitals 
seek to admit.  Further, the ACCC considered that capacity and funding 
constraints limit the ability of public hospitals to compete for the contestable 
patients whom the private hospitals seek to admit.  
77. 
The ACCC therefore considered that public hospitals are unlikely to provide a 
significant competitive constraint on private hospitals for the provision of 
rehabilitation services and should not be included in the relevant market. In any 
event, the ACCC’s decision did not turn on the exclusion or inclusion of public 
hospitals in the market, because even if they were included in the market, they 
would provide a weaker competitive constraint for privately funded rehabilitation 
patients than other private hospitals. 
Potential for supply-side substitution from acute private hospitals 
78. 
The ACCC found there was insufficient supply side substitutability between 
private general medical or surgical hospital services and rehabilitation services 
to include private hospitals which do not currently provide rehabilitation services 
in the relevant market.  
79. 
Industry participants submitted that a rehabilitation unit requires not only beds, 
but also facilities such as a gymnasium and a pool for hydrotherapy. 
Rehabilitation services also require significantly different medical staff compared 
to other medical services, so the conversion of general medical beds to 
rehabilitation beds requires the recruitment of a range of new staff including 
rehabilitation specialists and allied health professionals.  
80. 
The ACCC also observed that for a private hospital not currently providing 
rehabilitation services to commence doing so would require the development of 
approved rehabilitation programs and negotiation with health funds for the 
inclusion of rehabilitation services into the hospital’s HPPAs (contracts with 
health funds).  
81. 
Information from industry participants indicated that the provision of acute 
surgical services and general medical services at private hospitals is generally 
considered to be a high-cost, but also high-revenue, activity relative to providing 
rehabilitation services. If a hospital has a profitable general medical and/or 
surgical service operating at close to capacity, it is unlikely that the hospital 
would have sufficient incentive to convert its beds to provide rehabilitation 
services, even in the event of a reduction in rehabilitation quality or capacity in 
the relevant local market. 
82. 
Therefore, the ACCC considered there was insufficient supply-side 
substitutability to broaden the scope of the private rehabilitation market to 
include general medical or surgical private hospital beds. 
Geographic scope of the market  
83. 
The ACCC defined the geographic scope of the market having regard to a 
number of factors: 
 The ‘catchment area’ of the target hospital, Brunswick Private, which was 
based on the places of residence of patients attending the Brunswick Private, 
and mostly consisted of suburbs in northern Melbourne; 


 
15 
 
 The potential for competitive constraint by rehabilitation hospitals which were 
located near a boundary of the Brunswick Private’s catchment area; 
 Information provided by industry participants which explained the process for 
determining which rehabilitation hospital a patient is referred to and which 
hospitals were considered to compete with Brunswick Private and 
Healthscope’s Dorset and NERC hospitals; 
 Information and documents which revealed that the Brunswick Private and 
Healthscope’s Dorset and NERC hospitals were close competitors for the 
supply of rehabilitation services to patients in northern Melbourne. 
84. 
The ACCC considered this information to assess the extent to which the 
potential for patient switching would be likely to deter the hospitals in the 
northern suburbs from providing a lower quality rehabilitation service. While 
there is no specific data which goes directly to this issue, the ACCC considered 
a range of materials to form a view about the actual and potential constraint from 
other hospitals on the merger parties. These included: 
 market inquiries indicated the importance of location in a patient’s choice of 
rehabilitation hospital; 
 data on admission patterns for patients in the northern suburbs (based on 
current quality levels), provided an indication of the preferences of patients 
whose substitution possibilities are most relevant to the degree of competitive 
constraint on hospitals in the northern suburbs; and 
 information from the merger parties about the hospitals they consider to be 
competitors of their rehabilitation hospitals in the northern suburbs.  
85. 
Data and information from industry participants and the merger parties indicated 
that geographic proximity of a rehabilitation hospital to a patient’s home or the 
home of their family or other carer is a key determinant of competition.4 
86. 
Inpatients receiving rehabilitation services could spend a number of weeks or 
even months in hospital and as such, being a convenient distance from family is 
important. Similarly, a patient receiving ongoing rehabilitation as an outpatient 
would prefer to attend a rehabilitation facility close to their home to minimise 
travel time for the ongoing visits.  
87. 
Market inquiries showed that while some patients from the northern suburbs of 
Melbourne would attend an acute private hospital to the east or south of the CBD 
(e.g. Richmond or East Melbourne) for elective surgical procedures, many of 
these patients would still generally be referred to a rehabilitation facility on the 
northern side of the CBD for the reasons outlined above. Nevertheless, market 
inquiries revealed information which suggested that the Epworth Richmond and 
St Vincent’s would likely provide some constraint on the hospitals of the merger 
parties in the northern suburbs and therefore should be considered as 
substitutes to Healthscope in the event of a reduction in service quality post-
acquisition. 
                                                 
4 Subject to that rehabilitation hospital being able to offer a suitable rehabilitation program 
which meets the patient’s requirements. 


 
16 
 
Conclusion on the geographic dimension 
88. 
The ACCC concluded that the relevant market for the supply of rehabilitation 
services to patients from the northern suburbs of Melbourne comprised private 
rehabilitation hospitals located in the northern suburbs of Melbourne (Brunswick 
Private, Healthscope’s Dorset and NERC hospitals) and Epworth Richmond and 
St Vincent’s in East Melbourne.  
89. 
The ACCC considered that the analysis of the proposed acquisition did not 
critically hinge on the precise geographic boundaries of the market. The ACCC 
considered that rehabilitation hospitals located further away from Brunswick 
Private were likely to be weaker competitive constraints than those closer to 
Brunswick Private and broadening the scope of the geographic market would not 
necessarily alter the ACCC’s view of the likely effects of the proposed 
acquisition.  
90. 
Figure 1 illustrates the locations of rehabilitation hospitals in northern Melbourne.  
Figure 1. Map of northern Melbourne rehabilitation hospitals  
 


 
17 
 
Map legend 
 
Company 
Locations and rehabilitation bed numbers 
Healthe Care 
 
Brunswick Private (Brunswick) – 98 beds 
 
 
Healthscope  
 
Dorset (Pascoe Vale) – 30 beds 
 
North Eastern Rehab (Ivanhoe) – 46 beds 
 
Cotham Private (Kew) (outside of relevant market) 
 
 
Epworth Healthcare 
 
Epworth Richmond (Richmond) – 61 beds 
 
Epworth Hawthorn (Hawthorn) (outside of relevant market) 
St Vincent’s 
 
St Vincent’s Private (East Melbourne) – 17 beds 
Competition between hospitals as a network  
91. 
The ACCC also considered the extent to which hospitals compete as ‘networks’ 
and therefore whether private hospitals are competitively constrained by a 
regional network of hospitals, rather than by one or two local branches of a 
hospital network. In particular, the ACCC considered whether post-acquisition, 
the merged entity’s rehabilitation hospitals in the northern suburbs of Melbourne 
would be constrained by the Epworth network of hospitals (with rehabilitation 
service offerings in Richmond, Hawthorn, Camberwell and Brighton) as distinct 
from facing competition only from one or two of the Epworth’s hospitals.   
92. 
The ACCC considered that a hospital network may have an incentive to attempt 
to refer post-acute or emergency patients to the hospital network’s own 
rehabilitation beds, in order to maximise bed utilisation in the rehabilitation 
hospital network. In order to form a view on whether hospitals in Melbourne are 
competing against each other as ‘networks’, the ACCC considered a number of 
factors including: 
 market share data in relation to hospital catchment areas which indicated that 
a hospital’s market shares appear to be closely correlated to its distance from 
the residential addresses of patients admitted to the hospital. 
 the insignificant market shares of hospitals in the southern and eastern 
suburbs of Melbourne for admissions of patients from the northern suburbs of 
Melbourne, irrespective of whether they were part of a larger network of 
hospitals; 
 the relative proportions of within-network versus outside-of-network transfers 
of patients from acute or emergency hospitals to rehabilitation hospitals; and 
 further qualitative information provided by industry participants. 
93. 
Having regard to the above factors, the ACCC concluded that it was unlikely that 
Healthscope’s rehabilitation service offering in the northern suburbs of 
Melbourne would be competitively constrained by the networks of hospitals 
operated in the Melbourne area by Epworth Health, St Vincent’s Private or 
Ramsay Health Care. 


 
18 
 
Competition Assessment  
94. 
As discussed at paragraphs 31-32, to a large extent, private rehabilitation 
hospitals compete for patient referrals through investments in facilities to attract 
doctors and improve services for patients.  
95. 
The ACCC was concerned that the proposed acquisition would result in the 
removal of Healthscope's closest competitor in the market for the supply of 
private rehabilitation services to patients in northern Melbourne. The ACCC 
considered the proposed acquisition was likely to substantially lessen 
competition by reducing the incentives for Healthscope to continue to invest in 
staff, specialists, facilities and programs for the supply of rehabilitation services 
to patients in its northern Melbourne hospitals.  
Competitive significance of Brunswick Private 
96. 
A number of industry participants identified Brunswick Private as a vigorous and 
effective competitor for the supply of private rehabilitation services in northern 
Melbourne, having regard to the substantial investments in Brunswick Private 
made by Healthe to expand the size and quality of the rehabilitation offering to 
attract more patient referrals from private acute hospitals.  
97. 
The ACCC noted that Brunswick Private’s lack of large nearby ‘feeder’ hospitals 
owned by the same hospital group (in contrast to Healthscope’s Dorset which 
has the John Fawkner Hospital as a feeder hospital) means that it cannot rely on 
‘internal’ referrals within its own group.  Healthe’s La Trobe Private acute 
hospital at Bundoora was too small to provide a significant number of referrals to 
Brunswick Private.  This has incentivised Brunswick Private to be highly active in 
seeking patient referrals from third party hospitals. Market inquiries indicated that 
Brunswick Private has been very successful in attracting patients and growing 
the number of patient referrals. Industry participants also identified the 
management of Brunswick Private as being closely engaged with its medical 
staff and providing an attractive work environment for medical professionals.  
98. 
The ACCC considered that in the future absent the proposed acquisition, 
Healthe would continue to have an incentive to invest in improved services to 
attract patients to Brunswick Private and persist in being highly active in seeking 
patient referrals from third party hospitals. 
99. 
The ACCC considered that regardless of the precise market definition adopted, 
Brunswick Private is the closest competitor of Healthscope in the relevant 
market, because: 
 as explained in the market definition section above, most patients choose a 
rehabilitation hospital close to their home (or in some cases the home of a 
relative or friend with whom they will stay after the discharge from 
rehabilitation); 
 Brunswick Private is the geographically closest private rehabilitation hospital 
to each of Dorset and NERC; 
 internal documents and submissions from industry participants indicated that 
Brunswick Private is Dorset’s closest competitor and one of NERC’s closest 
competitors. 


 
19 
 
100. Information provided by industry participants indicated that the expansion of 
Brunswick Private had a significant impact on referrals to Healthscope’s 
rehabilitation hospitals in northern Melbourne. 
Insufficient competitive constraint from other hospitals 
101. The ACCC considered that the other rehabilitation hospitals in the market would 
be unlikely to provide a sufficient constraint on Healthscope post-acquisition to 
prevent a substantial lessening of competition.  
102. St Vincent’s Private and the Epworth in Richmond would have a substantially 
smaller number of rehabilitation beds than Healthscope post-acquisition. The 
ACCC considered that given the locations of Epworth Richmond and St 
Vincent’s Private (as well as other private hospitals outside the defined 
boundaries of the market), and as there are no private rehabilitation hospitals 
located to the north of Dorset, Healthscope would likely have a significant 
‘captive’ market of patients in the northern suburbs post-acquisition such that a 
small but significant decrease in quality may not cause enough local patients to 
switch to other rehabilitation hospitals.   
103. While Epworth HealthCare is a large and highly regarded private hospital group 
with a large number of rehabilitation beds in the southern and eastern suburbs of 
Melbourne, the ACCC considered that the Epworth in Richmond would provide 
only a limited competitive constraint on Healthscope for the supply of 
rehabilitation services to patients in the northern suburbs of Melbourne. The 
ACCC formed this view on the basis of market share data, internal documents 
from private hospitals and submissions from a range of industry participants. The 
ACCC found that the Epworth Richmond serviced a relatively small share of 
patients from Brunswick Private’s catchment area and its location was identified 
as a primary factor for its lower market share.  
104. The ACCC noted that St Vincent’s is a major health provider in inner Melbourne, 
however its rehabilitation capacity is very small, and likely to only compete for a 
limited number of northern Melbourne patients and generally only where those 
patients had attended a St Vincent’s acute hospital.  It was considered unlikely it 
would compete actively for rehabilitation patients from other acute hospitals 
(including public hospitals such as the Royal Melbourne and The Austin).  
Reduced incentive to accept slow-stream patients? 
105. The Statement of Issues raised concerns that: 
 Brunswick Private had focussed on providing services to slow-stream 
patients, in contrast to other private rehabilitation hospitals in the area which 
accept mainly fast-stream patients (as slow-stream patients tend to be less 
profitable) and had developed a rehabilitation model that was particularly 
suited to these patients; and 
 had the proposed acquisition proceeded, Healthscope may have had less 
incentive to accept slow-stream rehabilitation patients and adjusted its 
rehabilitation model accordingly. 
106. Further market inquiries following the Statement of Issues indicated that while 
some market participants might have had a perception that Brunswick Private 
focused on slow-stream patients, the empirical evidence on length of stay and 
frequency / intensity of treatment was not supportive of this theory. Further 


 
20 
 
market inquiries also indicated that the terms ‘slow stream’ and ‘fast stream’, 
whilst being common industry terminology, were imprecisely defined and subject 
to a significant degree of ambiguity. However, a number of industry participants 
identified Brunswick Private’s combined general medical and rehabilitation 
offering as a reason as to why it was considered to have a particularly high 
quality rehabilitation offering to geriatric patients who commonly require more 
extensive periods of rehabilitation.  
Barriers to entry 
107. The ACCC considered that there was unlikely to be any significant entry or 
expansion of capacity in the market within the next three years. 
Barriers to entry and expansion  
108. Industry participants generally identified long lead times involved with 
expansions or greenfield entry, including seeking board and council approval for 
a development and then constructing and outfitting a new facility. Industry 
participants submitted that the process for planning, developing and building a 
new private health facility would commonly take a minimum of three years and 
often take up to five years.  
109. However, industry participants submitted that barriers to commence providing 
rehabilitation services are generally lower than barriers for the provision of some 
other medical services such as acute surgical procedures as the costs 
associated with establishing a facility for rehabilitation services are lower, and 
attracting and retaining qualified and quality rehabilitation staff is not as difficult 
as attracting surgeons to a new private facility. 
110. Industry participants also identified that the need to renegotiate HPPAs 
(contracts) with health funds can present a barrier to a hospital group opening a 
new rehabilitation facility, as health funds generally will not automatically extend 
their contracts with the hospital group to cover new facilities.  Rather, hospital 
groups typically need to demonstrate to the health funds that the new facility will 
cater for otherwise unmet needs in that area. 
111. The ACCC conducted market inquiries with hospital groups throughout the 
greater Melbourne area and did not identify any plans for new entry or expansion 
into the relevant market that would be likely to constrain the merged firm post-
acquisition. The ACCC took into account Epworth Health Care’s plans to expand 
its Richmond hospital, which would increase the number of rehabilitation beds. 
The ACCC concluded that the threat of new entry or expansion into the market 
would not be likely to constrain the merged firm in the foreseeable future.  
Conclusion 
112. The ACCC considered that the proposed acquisition would result in Healthscope 
acquiring its closest and most significant competitor for the provision of 
rehabilitation services in northern Melbourne.  
113. Brunswick Private is a vigorous and effective competitor to Healthscope’s 
rehabilitation hospitals in northern Melbourne. Healthe Care has invested 
substantially in the capacity, facilities and services offered at Brunswick Private. 
This has resulted in increased referrals of patients to Brunswick Private and had 
a significant impact on referrals to Healthscope’s rehabilitation hospitals in 
northern Melbourne.  The ACCC considered that, in the absence of the proposed 


 
21 
 
acquisition, Brunswick Private is likely to continue to place competitive pressure 
on Healthscope to upgrade its rehabilitation hospitals in northern Melbourne. 
114. The ACCC considered that Healthscope would be unlikely to allow a 
deterioration of quality standards at its northern Melbourne rehabilitation 
hospitals to the point where it would damage the Healthscope brand.  The ACCC 
also considered that the influence of doctors, governance procedures and 
regulatory standards were likely to create a ‘floor’ below which quality standards 
would not drop.   
115. However, the ACCC considered that the proposed acquisition would be likely to 
substantially reduce the incentives for Healthscope to invest in staff, specialists, 
facilities and rehabilitation programs for the provision of services to patients in 
northern Melbourne, when compared to a future where it was competing directly 
with Brunswick Private to attract patients.   
116. The ACCC considered that Healthscope may face some competition post-
acquisition from other hospital groups, such as Epworth and to a lesser extent St 
Vincent’s Private. However, given the importance that patients place on 
geographic location, the ACCC considered that the presence of these 
competitors would not provide a sufficient ongoing incentive for Healthscope to 
invest in and improve the services offered to patients and doctors at its northern 
suburbs hospitals post-acquisition.   
117. The ACCC therefore concluded that the proposed acquisition would be likely to 
result in a substantial lessening of competition in the market for the supply of 
private rehabilitation services to patients in the northern suburbs of Melbourne, in 
contravention of section 50 of the Act. 
