Page 1 of 14 
 
Statement of Issues 
27 March 2014 
Healthscope Limited – proposed acquisition of the 
Brunswick Private Hospital 
Introduction 
1. 
Outlined below is the Statement of Issues released by the Australian 
Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) on the proposed acquisition of 
the Brunswick Private Hospital by Healthscope Limited from Healthe Care Pty 
Ltd (proposed acquisition). 
2. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well 
as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
3. 
In line with the ACCC’s Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines (at 
www.accc.gov.au/processguidelines) the ACCC has established a secondary 
timeline for further consideration of the issues. The ACCC anticipates completing 
further market inquiries by 10 April 2014 and anticipates making a final decision 
on 8 May 2014. However, the anticipated timeline can change in line with the 
Merger Review Process Guidelines. To keep abreast of possible changes in 
relation to timing and to find relevant documents, market participants should visit 
the Mergers Register on the ACCC's website at 
www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
4. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 
Background 
5. 
Healthscope Limited (Healthscope) proposes to acquire the Brunswick Private 
Hospital from Healthe Care Pty Ltd (Healthe). 
6. 
After making some preliminary targeted inquiries the ACCC decided to 
commence a public review on 22 January 2014. 


Healthscope Limited - proposed acquisition of Brunswick Private Hospital 
 
Page 2 of 14 
The parties 
Healthscope Limited 
7. 
Healthscope was formed in 1985 and provides private hospital, medical centre 
and pathology services across Australia. It has a portfolio of 44 private hospitals 
nationwide which includes three hospitals operated on behalf of the Adelaide 
Community Healthcare Alliance.  
8. 
Healthscope was listed on the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX) in 1994. In 
October 2010, Healthscope Limited was acquired by a consortium comprising 
funds advised and managed by private equity firms The Carlyle Group and TPG, 
and was subsequently de-listed from the ASX.  
9. 
Healthscope operates several hospitals in the Melbourne area including: 
 John Fawkner Private Hospital in Coburg, a 147 bed major surgical, 
medical and emergency hospital; 
 Melbourne Private Hospital in Parkville, a 124 bed hospital offering various 
general medical and surgical services; 
 Northpark Private Hospital in Bundoora, a 153 bed hospital providing 
surgical, medical, mental health, maternity and nursery services; 
 Cotham Private Hospital in Kew, a 60 bed hospital providing surgical, 
general medical and rehabilitation services; 
 Dorset Rehabilitation Centre in Pascoe Vale, a 30 bed rehabilitation facility; 
 North Eastern Rehabilitation Centre in Ivanhoe, a 46 bed rehabilitation 
facility; and 
 The Victorian Rehabilitation Centre in Glen Waverley, a 143 bed 
rehabilitation facility providing an extensive range of inpatient and 
outpatient services including an acquired brain injury unit.   
Healthe Care Pty Ltd 
10. 
Healthe was formed in 2005 and it employs approximately 4,000 people across a 
portfolio of 14 hospitals in Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria and 
Tasmania.  
11. 
In Melbourne, Healthe operates the Brunswick Private Hospital, La Trobe Private 
Hospital, the Valley Private Hospital, and South Eastern Private Hospital. 
Brunswick Private 
12. 
Brunswick Private Hospital (Brunswick Private) is a 128 bed hospital located in 
Brunswick, a suburb in northern Melbourne. Brunswick Private offers 
rehabilitation services and general medical services. Currently, 98 beds are 
allocated to rehabilitation services and 30 beds are allocated to general medical 
services.  


Healthscope Limited - proposed acquisition of Brunswick Private Hospital 
 
Page 3 of 14 
13. 
Brunswick Private’s general medical service offering  provides accommodation 
and services for patients being treated by doctors and specialists in the following 
areas: 
 
General practice 
 
Cardiology 
 
Psychiatry  
 
Respiratory 
 
Rheumatology 
14. 
The rehabilitation services offered at Brunswick Private consist of both inpatient 
and outpatient facilities and include treatment from rehabilitation physicians and 
specialist rehabilitation nurses, as well as allied health professionals. The 
specialist staff include: 
 
Occupational therapists 
 
Social workers 
 
Speech therapists 
 
Physiotherapists  
 
Exercise physiologists  
 
Allied Health assistants 
 
Stomal therapist 
 
Diabetes educator 
 
Psychologists 
 
Podiatrists 
 
Dieticians  
Other industry participants 
15. 
The following private hospital groups also provide private general medical, 
surgical and/or rehabilitation services in Melbourne: 
 
Epworth 
 
Cabrini Health 
 
St Vincent’s Private Hospital 
 
Ramsay Health 
Market inquiries 
16. 
On 22 January 2014 the ACCC commenced market inquiries regarding the 
proposed acquisition. A range of interested parties provided responses, including 
private hospitals, medical specialists, rehabilitation professionals and private 
health insurance funds.   
Future with and without the acquisition 
17. 
Section 50 of the Act prohibits mergers or acquisitions that would have the effect 
or be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
In assessing a proposed acquisition pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC 


Healthscope Limited - proposed acquisition of Brunswick Private Hospital 
 
Page 4 of 14 
considers the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future competitive 
environment post-acquisition if the acquisition proceeds (the “with” position) to 
the likely future competitive environment if the acquisition does not proceed (the 
“without” position) to determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in any relevant market. 
18. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that absent the proposed acquisition, Healthe is 
likely to continue to operate Brunswick Private as an independent competitor in 
the relevant markets. The ACCC is continuing to assess the information 
available to it regarding the likely future competitive environment without the 
proposed acquisition. 
Industry Background 
Competition to attract doctors and patients  
19. 
Private hospitals provide a range of services to patients, with much of the 
demand for services generated by doctors on behalf of their patients. Hospitals 
therefore endeavour to provide an environment in which doctors are willing to 
refer or treat their patients. Accordingly, competition between hospitals to attract 
doctors is often viewed as a proxy for competition to attract patients. 
20. 
The activities that hospital owners engage in to attract doctors (and hence 
encourage referrals of patients) often involves investment in facilities, equipment, 
medical professionals (including doctors, nurses and allied health professionals) 
and support staff. In addition, hospital owners and managers may provide for 
and respond to the input of medical professionals with regard to programs 
offered for the clinical care of patients by making the necessary resources 
available. 
Private health insurance funds 
21. 
The vast majority of patients attending private health facilities finance the 
medical services they receive by means of health insurance through a private 
health insurance fund (health fund). Private health insurance premiums are 
regulated by the federal government.  
22. 
Payments from health funds make up the vast majority of most private hospitals’ 
revenue.  Most private hospitals and health funds have agreements known as 
Hospital Purchaser Provider Agreements (HPPAs).  Private hospitals have 
equivalent agreements with the Repatriation Commission on behalf of the 
Commonwealth Department of Veterans’ Affairs. 
23. 
A HPPA is an agreement under which a health fund agrees with a private 
hospital operator that, if and when a member of the health fund presents for 
treatment at the private hospital, the hospital’s operator will provide services to 
the member to a specified standard and for a specified fee, and the operator can 
bill the health fund for the service (rather than billing the member).  
24. 
HPPAs help to minimise ‘gap’ or ‘out of pocket’ payments for a fund’s members.  
If a patient attends a private hospital which has an HPPA with the patient’s 
health fund, the patient will ordinarily not be required to make any payments for 
their hospital accommodation (except for any excess or co-payment that the 
patient is liable to pay under their health insurance plan).  If a patient has private 
health insurance but is treated at a hospital that does not have an HPPA with the 
patient’s fund, the fund is required by legislation to pay at least ‘second tier’ 
benefits, provided that the hospital is appropriately registered.  Lower minimum 


Healthscope Limited - proposed acquisition of Brunswick Private Hospital 
 
Page 5 of 14 
default benefits are payable if the hospital is not registered for second tier 
benefits. The patient may then, at the discretion of the private hospital, be 
required to pay the difference between the benefit paid by their fund and the 
hospital’s charges. 
25. 
An HPPA generally covers all the services provided by a hospital operator which 
the health fund has agreed to fund. HPPAs between a hospital operator and 
health fund are most commonly made on an ‘all-in’ or ‘all-out’ basis (i.e. either all 
of Healthscope’s hospitals are included in a HPPA with the health fund or none 
are). Therefore hospital operators with hospitals in multiple states tend to 
negotiate HPPAs with health funds on a national basis.  
26. 
The rates and other terms agreed in an HPPA are the result of negotiations 
between a hospital operator and a health fund, and therefore reflect the balance 
of bargaining power between the two parties. 
27. 
Most acute medical procedures (such as surgery) are charged as a fixed amount 
per procedure (known as a ‘case payment’) which is generally calculated with 
regard to the cost of the procedure and the average length of hospital stay 
associated with that procedure. Rehabilitation services (and psychiatric care 
services) are typically charged on a ‘per diem’ (daily) basis as the duration of 
care required is highly variable.  However, in some cases the case payment 
charged by a hospital to a health fund for an acute procedure will include a 
component for a period of rehabilitation which the patient is expected to require 
following the acute procedure.   
Areas of overlap and market definition 
28. 
Healthscope and Brunswick Private currently overlap in the provision of private 
general medical services and private rehabilitation services in the northern 
suburbs of Melbourne. In the absence of the proposed acquisition, the ACCC 
considers that there is potential for Healthe to expand Brunswick Private and 
begin providing surgical services at that hospital.  In that event, Healthscope and 
Brunswick Private would also overlap in the provision of private surgical 
services.  
29. 
Consistent with the approach taken in previous matters, the ACCC considers 
that there are separate markets for the supply of these relevant categories of 
private hospital services to each of: 
 
patients; and 
 
health funds. 
30. 
Patient markets are generally local in their geographic scope (at least in 
metropolitan areas) as patients do not typically travel long distances to access 
private hospital services (except perhaps for highly specialised services). The 
geographic dimensions of the relevant markets for the supply of private hospital 
services to patients are discussed further below. 
31. 
The relevant health fund markets are likely to be broader in their geographic 
scope. Industry participants submitted that because HPPAs between private 
hospitals and health funds are predominately negotiated on a national basis (for 
private hospital operators with a multi-state presence), competition between 
hospital groups on a national and state/territory level is most relevant to the 
competitive dynamic for determining HPPA rate increases. However, some 


Healthscope Limited - proposed acquisition of Brunswick Private Hospital 
 
Page 6 of 14 
industry participants considered that local competition between private hospital 
operators is also a significant influence on HPPA rates. This is because, if a 
private hospital operator has a particularly strong position in a local area, a 
health fund that wishes to provide services to members in that area may have no 
choice other than to deal with that hospital operator.  The ACCC considers that 
national, state and local dimensions are likely to be relevant to the analysis of 
competition for the supply of private hospital services to health funds by 
Healthscope, the second largest private hospital operator in Australia.  
Supply of general medical and surgical services  
Product dimension  
32. 
The term ‘general medical services’ covers all non-surgery, non-maternity, non-
rehabilitation and non-psychiatric medical services. It includes treatment for 
pneumonia, asthma, diabetes, mild cardiac problems and gastroenterology, as 
well as pathology services and pharmacy. General medical services are low 
acuity and as such, do not require the facilities or equipment required to deal 
with high acuity cases, such as operating theatres, intensive care units, coronary 
care units and high staff-to-patient ratios.  
33. 
The ACCC has not previously considered day surgeries and public health care 
facilities to provide a significant competitive constraint to private hospitals, and 
market inquiries indicated that industry participants do not consider public 
hospitals or day care facilities to be significant competitive constraints.  
34. 
Industry participants commonly submitted that public hospitals were not close 
substitutes for private hospitals, with a relatively small percentage of people with 
private health insurance seeking health services from a public hospital. Industry 
participants also identified waiting times at public hospitals and different 
perceived quality of care as being other factors which differentiated public and 
private hospitals. Industry participants also did not consider the public hospital 
system to have a material influence on the rates negotiated between a health 
fund and a private hospital operator. 
35. 
Given the potential overlap between Brunswick Private and Healthscope in the 
future without the proposed acquisition, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that it is 
also relevant to consider the effects of the proposed acquisition on the supply of 
private surgical services. 
Preliminary view on product dimension – services to patients 
36. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that, for the purpose of analysing the proposed 
acquisition, it is not necessary to precisely define whether the relevant product 
dimension encompasses the supply of both private general medical and private 
surgical services to patients, or whether these should be considered as separate 
product dimensions. 
37. 
Therefore, for the purposes of this Statement of Issues, the ACCC’s competition 
analysis proceeds on the basis of a combined product dimension, that is, a 
market for the supply of private hospital services to patients (encompassing the 
supply of private general medical services and private surgical services to 
patients). 


Healthscope Limited - proposed acquisition of Brunswick Private Hospital 
 
Page 7 of 14 
Geographic dimension (supply to patients) 
38. 
The ACCC has previously considered the geographic scope of competition for 
the supply of private hospital services to patients to be local in metropolitan 
areas1. In considering the Epworth’s proposed acquisition of Cliveden Hill Private 
Hospital (December 2005) the ACCC defined a local market for the supply of 
general overnight private hospital services in ‘inner Melbourne’ (which included 
St Vincent’s hospitals in Fitzroy, John Fawkner Private in Coburg and Cabrini in 
Malvern). 
39. 
Market inquiries in this matter indicated that while convenience of location was 
an important factor for patients seeking private hospital services, a significant 
number of patients may be willing to cross the Melbourne CBD in order to seek 
consultation or treatment from a general medical or surgical practitioner on the 
basis of the expertise and reputation of the medical practitioner or the private 
health facility they practice from.   
40. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that it is appropriate to consider the proposed 
acquisition in the context of the supply of general medical and surgical services 
to patients in the inner and northern suburbs of Melbourne. This geographic area 
includes private hospitals to the north of the Melbourne CBD, to the east as far 
as Heidelberg and Bundoora and the inner suburbs to the east and south of the 
CBD including Richmond.  
Private rehabilitation services to patients 
Product dimension 
41. 
The relevant area of overlap between the parties is the provision of specialist 
rehabilitation services. Specialist rehabilitation services are provided by a multi-
disciplinary team of medical practitioners, allied health professionals (e.g. 
physiotherapists) and nurses. These services can be offered as:  
 
inpatient services: e.g. a 10-15 day stay in order to recover from a hip 
replacement surgery; or  
 
outpatient services e.g. a patient may attend the hospital for a 3-4 hour 
period on a certain day to see a variety of specialists to assist in the 
recovery from an injury or surgery.  
42. 
Rehabilitation facilities such as Brunswick Private, Dorset Rehabilitation Centre 
and North Eastern Rehabilitation Centre all provide both inpatient and outpatient 
services. The ACCC understands that the staff and facilities necessary to 
provide inpatient and outpatient services are essentially the same, except for the 
overnight accommodation aspect of the service, which outpatients do not 
require.  
43. 
Inpatient services can also be categorised as:  
 
fast-stream: a short stay of e.g. 10-15 days for post-operative or post-
trauma recovery; and  
                                                 
1 Healthscope Limited proposed acquisition of 14 hospitals from Ramsay Health Care (28 September 2005) and 
Epworth proposed acquisition of Cliveden Hill Hospital (13 December 2005). 


Healthscope Limited - proposed acquisition of Brunswick Private Hospital 
 
Page 8 of 14 
 
slow-stream: a stay that may last as long as 3-6 months, for example, to 
recover from a serious car accident, or an elderly person who may take 
longer to recover from a hip replacement due to failing health or a pre-
existing condition).   
44. 
The ACCC understands that providing rehabilitation services to slow-stream 
inpatients does not require different staff or facilities from those required for fast-
stream patients (although single bed rooms are generally considered preferable). 
The ACCC understands that the private rehabilitation hospitals in northern 
Melbourne each accept a mix of slow-stream and fast-stream patients.  
However, market inquiries have indicated that Brunswick Private recently has 
competed by admitting greater numbers of slow-stream patients than 
Healthscope’s rehabilitation facilities.   
45. 
There appears to be some overlap between private rehabilitation services and 
those provided by the public system.  For example, the ACCC understands that 
the Royal Melbourne Hospital’s Royal Park rehabilitation facility provides both 
inpatient and outpatient services which can be accessed by patients with private 
health insurance.  The ACCC understands that a significant proportion of 
patients with private health insurance receive rehabilitation services from public 
providers, and that these may particularly be elderly patients and those with 
more complex rehabilitation needs.  In addition, there are both public and private 
providers of community rehabilitation services, such as St Vincent’s Community 
Rehabilitation Centre in Northcote. 
46. 
However, the ACCC considers that most patients with private health insurance 
who require specialist rehabilitation services would seek to be treated by a 
private rehabilitation provider.  Issues with funding and capacity constraints are 
likely to limit the degree of competition provided by the public sector.   
47. 
Accordingly, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the product dimension of the 
relevant market is the supply of private rehabilitation services to patients, 
including inpatient and outpatient and slow-stream and fast-stream services.   
However, the ACCC will further explore the issues raised above in relation to 
product market definition before reaching its final decision. 
Geographic dimension 
48. 
The ACCC has previously defined local markets for the supply of private 
rehabilitation services in southern and eastern Melbourne2. 
49. 
Market inquiries with doctors and private hospitals indicated that the location 
where a patient or a patient’s family resides is a key factor in choosing a 
rehabilitation facility. Industry participants noted that the patients receiving 
inpatient rehabilitation services could spend a number of weeks or even months 
being admitted at a rehabilitation facility so being a convenient distance from 
family was important. Similarly for ongoing outpatient rehabilitation, patients 
would prefer to attend a rehabilitation facility close to their home in order to 
minimise travel time for the ongoing visits to the rehabilitation facility. Industry 
participants further noted that it was not uncommon for patients from the 
northern suburbs of Melbourne to have a surgical procedure undertaken at a 
private hospital to the east or south of the CBD (e.g. Richmond or East 
Melbourne). However, these patients would still generally be referred to a 
rehabilitation facility on the northern side of the CBD for the reasons outlined 
above.  
                                                 
2 Epworth proposed acquisition of Cedar Court Private Hospital, September 2006. 


Healthscope Limited - proposed acquisition of Brunswick Private Hospital 
 
Page 9 of 14 
50. 
On this basis, most industry participants considered that rehabilitation facilities 
south and east of the Melbourne CBD, such as Epworth in Richmond, Cabrini in 
Elsternwick and Ramsay’s rehabilitation facility in Donvale, are unlikely to be 
considered close substitutes to Brunswick Private.  In forming a preliminary view 
on the appropriate geographic scope of competition for the supply of private 
rehabilitation services, the ACCC has examined data on the residential location 
of patients attending various rehabilitation hospitals. These data are consistent 
with patients from the northern suburbs exhibiting a preference for treatment in 
rehabilitation hospitals in this region.  
51. 
On the basis of the above information, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that it is 
appropriate to consider the proposed acquisition in the context of the supply of 
private rehabilitation services to patients in the northern suburbs of Melbourne. 
This geographic area includes private hospitals to the north of the Melbourne 
CBD, but does not include hospitals to the east or south of the Melbourne CBD 
such as Richmond.  However, the ACCC will further consider the proportion of 
patients travelling outside northern Melbourne to access private rehabilitation 
services and the reasons for this. 
Conclusion 
52. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the following markets are likely to be 
relevant in assessing the proposed acquisition: 
a. 
The supply of private hospital services (encompassing general medical 
and surgical services) to patients in the inner and northern suburbs of 
Melbourne  
b. 
The supply of private hospital services (encompassing general medical 
and surgical services) to health funds.  As discussed above, the ACCC 
considers that there are national, state-based and local elements to 
competition in this market 
b. 
The supply of private rehabilitation services to patients in the northern 
suburbs of Melbourne  
c. 
The supply of private rehabilitation services to health funds.  As with 
private hospital services, the ACCC considers that there are national, 
state-based and local elements to competition in this market 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its proposed definition of the 
relevant markets, including whether: 
 
it is relevant to consider competition for the supply of general medical services 
together with the supply of general surgical services 
 
competitive conditions in relation to the supply of inpatient rehabilitation 
services are different from competitive conditions in relation to the supply of 
outpatient services 
 
public rehabilitation services, and community rehabilitation services (such as St 
Vincent’s Community Rehabilitation Centre in Northcote) provide a significant 
degree of competitive constraint on private rehabilitation providers 


Healthscope Limited - proposed acquisition of Brunswick Private Hospital 
 
Page 10 of 14 
 
in the event of a deterioration in the private rehabilitation services offered at 
hospitals in Melbourne’s north, patients would be likely to travel to hospitals 
outside the northern region, such as St Vincent’s Private and Epworth’s 
Richmond and Freemasons (East Melbourne) rehabilitation hospitals  
Statement of issues 
53. 
For the purposes of this Statement of Issues, the issues in this matter are 
divided into two categories, 'issues of concern' and 'issues unlikely to raise 
concerns'. 
Issues of concern 
Market for the supply of private rehabilitation services to patients in 
northern Melbourne  
54. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition is likely to result in a 
substantial lessening of competition in the market for the supply of private 
rehabilitation services to patients in northern Melbourne. Currently there are 
three private hospitals providing rehabilitation services to patients in northern 
Melbourne: 
 
Brunswick Private (owned by Healthe Care);  
 
Dorset Rehabilitation Centre (owned by Healthscope); and 
 
North Eastern Rehabilitation Centre (owned by Healthscope).  
55. 
The proposed acquisition would result in the removal of Healthscope’s closest 
and only competitor in this market. The ACCC is therefore concerned that 
proposed acquisition is likely to reduce competition, for example by substantially 
reducing the incentives for Healthscope to invest in staff, specialists, facilities 
and rehabilitation programs for the supply of rehabilitation services to patients in 
northern Melbourne.  
56. 
Some industry participants identified Brunswick Private as a vigorous and 
effective competitor for the supply of private rehabilitation services in northern 
Melbourne, noting the substantial investments in Brunswick Private by its current 
owner Healthe Care, to expand the size and quality of the rehabilitation offering 
to attract more patient referrals from private hospitals. The ACCC notes that 
some of this investment may have been necessary to bring the hospital into line 
with the standard of other hospitals in the Healthe Care group, after Healthe 
Care acquired Brunswick Private in 2009. 
57. 
Market inquiries also suggested that Brunswick Private has focussed on 
providing services to slow-stream patients (in contrast to other private 
rehabilitation hospitals in the area which accept mainly fast-stream patients) and 
has developed a rehabilitation model that is particularly suited to these patients.    
The ACCC understands that slow-stream patients can be less attractive to 
private rehabilitation hospitals because they require longer periods of 
rehabilitation and the per diem payments that private hospitals receive from 
health funds generally reduce over the length of the patient’s stay.  The ACCC’s 
investigation has also indicated that Healthscope may have responded to 
competition from Brunswick Private by competing more vigorously for slow-
stream patients.   


Healthscope Limited - proposed acquisition of Brunswick Private Hospital 
 
Page 11 of 14 
58. 
If the proposed acquisition proceeds, Healthscope may have less incentive to 
accept slow-stream rehabilitation patients and may adjust its rehabilitation model 
accordingly.  
59. 
The ACCC notes that the geographic boundaries of the defined market do not 
include the rehabilitation facilities at St Vincent’s in East Melbourne or Epworth 
Richmond. However the ACCC considers that, even if these hospitals were to be 
included in the market, each has a substantially smaller number of rehabilitation 
beds and may not constrain Healthscope given the approximately 174 
rehabilitation beds (in total) Healthscope would have in northern Melbourne post-
acquisition.    
60. 
The ACCC also considers that as Healthscope has a number of private hospitals 
offering acute surgical procedures in the northern suburbs of Melbourne (John 
Fawkner Private, Melbourne Private Hospital and Northpark Private Hospital), in 
the absence of the proposed acquisition, Healthscope would have a greater 
incentive to expand its other private rehabilitation facilities in northern Melbourne 
in order to facilitate the transfer of patients out of its acute hospitals.  
61. 
The ACCC is therefore concerned that the proposed acquisition is likely to result 
in reduced competition in the supply of private rehabilitation services to patients 
in northern Melbourne, particularly slow-stream patients, and that this may lead 
to reduced quality of the rehabilitation services offered.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary findings 
regarding the likely competitive effects of the proposed acquisition on the supply of 
rehabilitation services to patients in northern Melbourne, including: 
 
whether and how Brunswick Private’s private rehabilitation offering is different 
from that offered by Healthscope in its northern Melbourne hospitals, in 
particular whether Brunswick Private offers a model that is more beneficial to 
slow-stream patients 
 
whether and how the rehabilitation services provided at Brunswick Private 
would be likely to change if the proposed acquisition proceeds 
 
whether, in the absence of the proposed acquisition, Healthscope would be 
likely to expand its rehabilitation offering in northern Melbourne. 
Barriers to Entry  
62. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that there are barriers to entry in supplying 
private rehabilitation services in northern Melbourne which may prevent entry in 
the foreseeable future. 
63. 
Industry participants submitted that barriers to commence providing rehabilitation 
services are generally lower relative to barriers relating to the supply of some 
other services such as high-acuity surgical procedures, as the costs associated 
with establishing a facility for rehabilitation services are lower and attracting and 
retaining qualified and quality rehabilitation staff is not as difficult as attracting 
surgeons to a new private facility. 
64. 
However, industry participants noted the long lead times associated with 
expansions or greenfield entry generally, including seeking board and council 
approval for a development and then constructing and outfitting the new facility. 
Industry participants submitted that the process for planning, developing and 


Healthscope Limited - proposed acquisition of Brunswick Private Hospital 
 
Page 12 of 14 
commence operating a new private health facility would commonly take a 
minimum of three years and often take up to five years.  
65. 
The ACCC understands that many rehabilitation specialists work on a part-time 
basis at several different rehabilitation hospitals.  This may make it relatively 
easy for a new rehabilitation facility to attract specialists.  On the other hand, 
market inquiries also suggested that it is more difficult to attract rehabilitation 
specialists to hospitals in the northern suburbs of Melbourne than to the eastern 
and southern suburbs. 
66. 
Industry participants also submitted that obtaining a new HPPA from health 
funds (which would be required on a greenfield development) could be 
particularly challenging in relation to private rehabilitation services which some 
health funds have been reluctant to include in HPPAs. Industry participants 
identified some major national health funds which had refused requests for 
HPPAs in relation to rehabilitation services in recent years.  
67. 
Industry participants identified some brownfields expansions plans by private 
hospital operators in other areas of Melbourne which included the addition of 
rehabilitation beds. However, the ACCC was not informed of any current 
proposals for a private hospital provider to commence providing rehabilitation 
services in northern Melbourne.  
68. 
On the basis of the above information, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that 
barriers to entry for the supply of private rehabilitation services in northern 
Melbourne are such that Healthscope is unlikely to be competitively constrained 
by the threat of entry in the foreseeable future following the proposed acquisition.  
The ACCC invites comments from industry participants on the nature and extent of 
barriers to entry in the supply of private rehabilitation services to patients in the 
northern suburbs of Melbourne, including: 
 
How difficult it would be to secure suitable land in Melbourne’s north for a new 
rehabilitation hospital 
 
The likely cost of building a new rehabilitation facility  
 
How difficult it would be to attract rehabilitation specialists and other necessary 
staff  
 
How difficult it would be to attract a sufficient number of patient referrals  
 
The willingness of health funds to vary their HPPAs to include a new private 
rehabilitation hospital in Melbourne’s north 
 
Any other barriers to entry or expansion and the extent to which these barriers 
would prevent timely entry or expansion in relation to the supply of the relevant 
services following the proposed acquisition. 
Issues unlikely to raise concerns 
Market for the supply of private rehabilitation services to health funds 
69. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to result 
in a substantial lessening of competition in the market for the supply of private 
rehabilitation services to health funds. Notwithstanding the concern that the 


Healthscope Limited - proposed acquisition of Brunswick Private Hospital 
 
Page 13 of 14 
proposed acquisition may provide Healthscope with a substantial increase in 
market power in relation to the supply of private rehabilitation services to patients 
in northern Melbourne, the ACCC considers it unlikely that this would result in 
Healthscope having a substantially stronger bargaining position in its negotiation 
of HPPAs with health funds.  
70. 
On a national scale, the addition of Brunswick Private Hospital would result in a 
relatively incremental increase in Healthscope’s hospital portfolio to 45 hospitals 
from 44 hospitals.  
71. 
On a local basis, the proposed acquisition may result in a loss of options for 
private health fund members in northern Melbourne who are in need of 
rehabilitation services, however the ACCC’s preliminary view is that Healthscope 
is unlikely to be able to leverage its position in the northern Melbourne private 
rehabilitation market to negotiate higher HPPA rates with health funds. 
72. 
A number of industry participants submitted that it has become increasingly 
difficult to negotiate rate increases for the supply of rehabilitation services in 
HPPAs with health funds and that rate increases for rehabilitation services were 
commonly substantially lower than for acute surgical procedures. A number of 
industry participants also provided examples of a major health fund being 
unwilling to enter into a HPPA with a rehabilitation facility at all. 
73. 
Many industry participants who made submissions to the ACCC, including a 
number of large health funds, considered that Healthscope was unlikely to obtain 
higher HPPA rates from health funds as a result of the proposed acquisition. 
74. 
On the basis of the above information, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the 
proposed acquisition is unlikely to result in a substantial lessening of competition 
for the supply of private rehabilitation services to health funds.   
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the ACCC’s preliminary 
findings regarding the likely effects of the proposed acquisition on the supply of 
rehabilitation services to health funds. 
Market(s) for the supply of private hospital (general medical and surgical) 
services to patients  
75. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to result 
in a substantial lessening of competition in markets for the supply of private 
general medical services to patients in northern and inner Melbourne. 
76. 
Although Healthscope’s John Fawkner Private Hospital is located in close 
proximity to Brunswick Private, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the relevant 
geographic scope of the market is likely to include the Warringal Private Hospital 
in Heidelberg, the Epworth Freemasons and Epworth in Richmond and St 
Vincent’s in Fitzroy, East Melbourne and Kew. 
77. 
The ACCC considers that post-acquisition Healthscope would likely be 
constrained by the remaining private hospitals in the relevant market. Industry 
participants in particular identified Epworth and St Vincent’s as large and highly 
regarded providers of general medical services. 
78. 
Due to the presence of the Epworth and St Vincent’s (which are also large and 
highly regarded providers of private surgical services), the ACCC’s preliminary 
view is that the loss of Brunswick Private as a potential entrant into the supply of 
private surgical services would not amount to a substantial lessening of 
competition.  


Healthscope Limited - proposed acquisition of Brunswick Private Hospital 
 
Page 14 of 14 
79. 
Industry participants did not raise concerns regarding the supply of general 
medical or surgical services in relation to the proposed acquisition.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the ACCC’s preliminary 
views regarding the likely competitive effects of the proposed acquisition on the supply 
of general medical and surgical services to patients.  
Market(s) for the supply of private hospital (general medical and surgical) 
services to health funds  
80. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to result 
in a substantial lessening of competition for the supply of general medical and 
surgical services to health funds. 
81. 
As noted above, the addition of Brunswick Private Hospital would result in a 
relatively incremental increase in Healthscope’s hospital portfolio to 45 hospitals 
from 44 hospitals. 
82. 
While local competition between hospitals is also relevant, the ACCC considers 
that the competition provided by alternative private hospitals in the relevant 
market is likely to constrain Healthscope such that it is unlikely to be able to 
negotiate higher rates in its HPPAs with health funds as a result of the proposed 
acquisition. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the ACCC’s preliminary 
views regarding the likely competitive effects of the proposed acquisition on the supply 
of general medical and surgical services to health funds.  
ACCC's future steps 
83. 
The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers market responses 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
84. 
The ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on each of the 
issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issues that may be 
relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. 
85. 
Submissions are to be received by the ACCC no later than 10 April 2014. The 
ACCC will consider the submissions received from the market and the merger 
parties in light of the issues identified above and will, in conjunction with 
information and submissions already provided by the parties, come to a final 
view in light of the issues raised above. 
86. 
The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 8 May 2014. However 
the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Merger Review Process 
Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose of explaining the 
ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's public announcement. 
