Page 1 of 15 
 
Statement of Issues 
10 July 2014 
 Coles Supermarkets Australia Pty Ltd - proposed 
acquisition of four Progressive Supa IGA stores in 
Western Australia (including two liquor licences) 
Introduction 
1. 
Outlined below is the Statement of Issues released by the Australian 
Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) on the proposed acquisition of 
four Progressive Supa IGA stores in Western Australia (including two liquor 
licences) by Coles Supermarkets Australia Pty Ltd (Coles) from Progressive 
Trading Pty Ltd (Progressive). 
2. 
In particular, Coles proposes to acquire from Progressive: 
a. a Progressive Supa IGA supermarket located at Busselton, including a 
liquor licence (Busselton store) 
b. a Progressive Supa IGA supermarket located at Halls Head, including a 
liquor licence (Halls Head store) 
c. a Progressive Supa IGA supermarket located at Bunbury Forum 
(Bunbury Forum store) 
d. a Progressive Supa IGA located at Dianella (Dianella store). 
3. 
These four separate but related proposed acquisitions will be considered within 
this Statement of Issues. Together the target supermarkets are referred to as the 
target stores and the acquisitions as the proposed acquisition. 
4. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well 
as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
5. 
In line with the ACCC’s Merger Review Process Guidelines (at 
www.accc.gov.au/processguidelines) the ACCC has established a secondary 
timeline for further consideration of the issues. The ACCC anticipates completing 
further market inquiries by 24 July 2014 and anticipates making a final decision 
on 14 August 2014. However, the anticipated timeline can change in line with the 
Merger Review Process Guidelines. To keep abreast of possible changes in 
relation to timing and to find relevant documents, market participants should visit 
the Mergers Register on the ACCC's website at 
www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 


Coles Supermarkets Australia Pty Ltd - proposed acquisition of four 
Progressive Supa IGA stores in Western Australia (including two liquor 
licences) 
 
Page 2 of 15 
6. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 
Background 
7. 
On 14 April 2014, the ACCC commenced a public review of the proposed 
acquisition. 
The parties 
The Acquirer: Coles Supermarkets Australia Pty Ltd 
8. 
Coles is owned by Wesfarmers Limited, an Australian listed public company with 
diverse business operations in the retail, resources, insurance, chemicals, 
energy fertilisers and industrial sectors. 
9. 
Coles is a leading food, liquor and convenience retailer, with a presence in every 
Australian state and territory. Coles currently has a total of 756 supermarkets 
across Australia (85 of which are in Western Australia) and 810 liquor stores 
across Australia (102 of which are in Western Australia). 
The Vendors 
Progressive Trading Pty Ltd 
10. 
Progressive is an IGA Banner Group consisting of eight stores in Western 
Australia, four of which are subject to the proposed acquisition. Progressive is 
45.4% owned by Metcash Trading Ltd (Metcash), 27.3% owned by BMS Retail 
Group Pty Ltd, and 27.3% owned by Mr Dominic Oliveri (Chief Operating Officer 
of Progressive). 
11. 
Coles proposes to acquire the four Western Australian Supa IGA supermarkets 
identified at [2] above, which are currently operated by Progressive. 
Metcash Trading Limited 
12. 
Metcash is an ASX-listed marketing, wholesaling and distribution company that 
services independent supermarket, liquor and hardware retailers. Metcash is a 
wholesaler to independent supermarkets under the IGA brand (including Supa 
IGA), and to liquor retailers under various national brands, including 
Cellarbrations, IGA Liquor (formerly IGA Plus Liquor), and Bottle-O. Metcash 
provides marketing support and other services to these supermarkets and liquor 
retailers. In some cases it also owns an interest in the retailer. 
Other industry participants 
13. 
Woolworths Limited (Woolworths) is Australia’s largest grocery retailer. It 
operates over 800 supermarkets across Australia. It also owns liquor retailers 
Beer Wine Spirits (BWS) and Dan Murphy’s. 
14. 
Foodworks is the trading brand for Australian United Retailers Limited (AURL), 
an independent retail supermarket group. AURL has approximately 650 
supermarkets, food and convenience stores across Australia, with 400 of these 


Coles Supermarkets Australia Pty Ltd - proposed acquisition of four 
Progressive Supa IGA stores in Western Australia (including two liquor 
licences) 
 
Page 3 of 15 
operating under the “Foodworks” brand. In Western Australia, AURL operates 
both “Foodworks” and “Farmer Jacks” branded supermarkets, with Farmer Jacks 
being larger format stores, with a focus on fresh produce, meat and deli. 
15. 
ALDI Australia is a privately-owned global supermarket operator that entered 
Australia in 2001. It has over 300 stores across New South Wales, the Australian 
Capital Territory, Queensland and Victoria. In February 2013, ALDI announced 
plans to expand its operations into South Australia and Western Australia. 
Recent media releases from ALDI have suggested that it plans to open around 
70 stores in Western Australia, but there is no indicative timeframe as to the date 
of any store openings. 
16. 
ALDI can be characterised as a limited assortment discounter. Limited 
assortment discounters emphasise private label products, do not provide the 
same depth of range as full-line supermarkets (such as Woolworths and Coles) 
and are generally smaller stores. 
The transaction 
17. 
Coles entered into an agreement with Metcash and Progressive in relation to the 
proposed acquisition. After the acquisition, the target stores would be converted 
to Coles-branded supermarkets. 
Market inquiries 
18. 
On 14 April 2014 the ACCC commenced market inquiries regarding the 
proposed acquisition. A range of interested parties provided responses.  
The future with and without the proposed acquisition 
19. 
Section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the Act) prohibits 
mergers or acquisitions that would have the effect or be likely to have the effect 
of substantially lessening competition in a market. In assessing a proposed 
acquisition pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC considers the effects of 
the acquisition by comparing the likely future competitive environment post-
acquisition if the acquisition proceeds (the “with” position) to the likely future 
competitive environment if the acquisition does not proceed (the “without” 
position) to determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to substantially 
lessen competition in any relevant market. 
20. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view based on its market inquiries to date is that, 
without the proposed acquisition, Progressive is likely to continue trading in the 
target stores. Alternatively, the target stores may be acquired by an alternative 
independent supermarket operator. On this view, the target stores would 
continue to operate as independent supermarkets in the local markets absent 
the proposed acquisition. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its proposed future with and 
without the proposed acquisition. In particular market participants may wish to 
comment on: 


Coles Supermarkets Australia Pty Ltd - proposed acquisition of four 
Progressive Supa IGA stores in Western Australia (including two liquor 
licences) 
 
Page 4 of 15 
(i) 
The extent to which the target stores are likely to be viable as independent 
supermarkets, either under current ownership or under the ownership of an alternative 
independent buyer. 
(ii) 
Whether there are, or could be, other potential acquirers of one or more of the 
target stores and the likely timeframes for any such acquisition. 
 
Areas of overlap 
21. 
The ACCC considers that the key areas of competitive overlap between the 
parties to the proposed acquisition are: 
 
supermarket retailing 
 
takeaway liquor retailing 
 
wholesale acquisition of products sold in supermarkets 
 
wholesale acquisition of takeaway liquor products. 
Market definition 
Local markets for supermarket and takeaway liquor retailing 
22. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the relevant local retail markets for 
assessing the competition effects of the merger are as follows: 
a. local markets for supermarket and takeaway liquor retailing in the area 
surrounding the Busselton store 
b. local markets for supermarket and takeaway liquor retailing in the area 
surrounding the Halls Head store 
c. a local market for supermarket retailing in the area surrounding the 
Bunbury Forum store 
d. a local market for supermarket retailing in the area surrounding the 
Dianella store. 
Local retail supermarkets markets: geographic dimension 
23. 
Consistent with past reviews of supermarket acquisitions in urban areas, as a 
starting point the ACCC has considered the impact of the proposed acquisition in 
the local markets by assessing overlap and competitors within 3-5km of the 
target stores. 
Local retail supermarkets market: product dimension 
24. 
Consistent with its findings in previous matters, the ACCC’s preliminary view is 
that the product dimension of the relevant market is the retail supermarket 
market. 
25. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that specialist retailers are not sufficiently close 
substitutes to supermarkets to be included in the relevant market. 


Coles Supermarkets Australia Pty Ltd - proposed acquisition of four 
Progressive Supa IGA stores in Western Australia (including two liquor 
licences) 
 
Page 5 of 15 
26. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that not all supermarkets are equally close 
substitutes for each other. The ACCC considers that the closest constraint on a 
supermarket at the target site would be likely to come from other full-line 
supermarkets in the local area, rather than from limited assortment discounters 
and convenience oriented supermarkets. The ACCC will comment on the relative 
constraint imposed by these different types of supermarkets in the competition 
analysis below. 
State-wide markets 
27. 
The ACCC also considered the following state-wide (Western Australia)  markets 
to be relevant to assessing the proposed acquisition: 
a. state-wide markets for supermarket and takeaway liquor retailing 
b. a state-wide market for the wholesale acquisition by supermarket 
retailers and wholesalers of products sold in supermarkets 
c. a state-wide market for the wholesale acquisition by takeaway liquor 
retailers and wholesalers of takeaway liquor products. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its proposed definition of the 
relevant markets. 
Statement of issues 
28. 
For the purposes of this Statement of Issues, the issues in this matter are 
divided into two categories, 'issues that may raise concerns' and 'issues unlikely 
to pose concerns'. 
Issues that may raise concerns – local markets for supermarket 
retailing 
29. 
Paragraphs [30] to [36] discuss the ACCC’s approach to assessing the 
competitive effects of the proposed acquisition in each local supermarket market. 
Particular features of each local market are discussed from [37]. 
30. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition would replace the 
differentiated offer of Progressive Supa IGA stores with the offer of Coles, which 
is already present in each local market. The four Progressive Supa IGA stores 
have a differentiated promotion, product range and service offering which 
represents a competitive response to rival supermarket chains and provides 
additional choice to consumers. In addition, the proposed acquisition would 
remove the only independent full-line supermarket in the Busselton and Bunbury 
local markets. Given the markets are characterised by high barriers to entry, new 
entry at a sufficient scale to replace the lost competitive tension is unlikely.  
Removal of Progressive Supa IGA as a competitor to Coles 
31. 
Supa IGA supermarkets are generally classed as ‘full-line’ supermarkets, which 
aim to fulfil the needs of customers doing their ‘weekly shop’ in addition to the 
needs of those doing a ‘top-up shop’. The ACCC’s market inquiries indicate that 
Supa IGAs have a product range as broad as Woolworths and Coles. Some 
market participants have submitted that Supa IGAs have the ability to tailor their 


Coles Supermarkets Australia Pty Ltd - proposed acquisition of four 
Progressive Supa IGA stores in Western Australia (including two liquor 
licences) 
 
Page 6 of 15 
range to the local market better than either Coles or Woolworths (discussed 
further at [42] below). The proposed acquisition will remove the unique product 
offerings of the target stores. 
32. 
The ACCC understands that Supa IGA supermarkets have a broader range of 
promotions than IGA supermarkets, and they compete with Coles and 
Woolworths on the basis of these specials (as part of their differentiated offer). 
The proposed acquisition would remove the Supa IGA promotional cycle from 
each local market except for the Dianella local market. 
33. 
The ACCC is continuing to consider the extent to which the target stores’ product 
range and promotions have a real and meaningful effect on local competition. 
The ACCC is also considering whether there is potential for an alternative buyer 
to acquire one or more of the target stores and compete with Coles and 
Woolworths in the local markets. 
34. 
The ACCC is also considering the competitive constraint that will remain on 
Coles in each local market after the proposed acquisition. In this respect, the 
ACCC considers smaller supermarkets (such as smaller format IGAs) are less 
likely to constrain Coles, compared to larger supermarkets. Smaller 
supermarkets are generally focused on convenience-based offerings with a 
smaller product range. Consumers are likely to purchase from these smaller 
supermarkets for ‘top-up shops’, rather than for their weekly shop. 
35. 
Some market participants have raised concern that the proposed acquisition 
would reduce choice available to consumers in each local market. Where a 
target store has an offer differentiated from its local competitors, it provides 
choice to consumers. The proposed acquisition would replace any such 
differentiated offer with the offer of Coles, which is already available in each local 
market. 
Barriers to entry 
36. 
The ACCC’s market inquiries suggest that there are high barriers to entry in local 
supermarket markets. In particular, some market participants have identified the 
following factors as barriers to entry in the local markets surrounding each of the 
target stores: 
a. there are already several supermarkets in the local market 
b. there are no other sites available or coming up for development in the 
next few years that are suitable for a full service supermarket 
c. there are high capital costs for developing a new full service 
supermarket, as well as high strategic risks associated with entering an 
established area well-served by existing supermarkets. 
Busselton market for supermarket retailing 
37. 
Busselton is a regional hub approximately 220km south of Perth and forms part 
of the Cape region of South West Western Australia. 
38. 
The Busselton store operated by Progressive is located in a relatively new 
shopping centre (opened December 2003) at 30 Kent Street, in central 
Busselton. It sells a full range of supermarket products, including fresh produce, 
with a bakery, delicatessen, meat and seafood counter. Progressive also has a 
pending liquor licence at the Busselton store location, discussed below at [62-
65]. 


Coles Supermarkets Australia Pty Ltd - proposed acquisition of four 
Progressive Supa IGA stores in Western Australia (including two liquor 
licences) 
 
Page 7 of 15 
39. 
The following table shows the supermarkets in Busselton. 
Table 1: Supermarkets in Busselton 
Supermarket 
Selling floor area (m2) 
Busselton Progressive Supa IGA 
3068 
Coles Busselton 
2124 
Woolworths Busselton 
1900 
Woolworths Busselton (Kent St) 
3220 
Supermarkets smaller than 1000m2 
 
IGA Busselton 
506 
IGA Geographe 
550 
 
40. 
The location of these supermarkets is shown in the following map. 
Map 1: Busselton 
 
41. 
Following the proposed acquisition of the Busselton store, Coles would own two 
out of four supermarkets with a selling floor area of over 1000m2 within a 3km 
radius and within a 5km radius. Woolworths would be the only competing 
operator of such supermarkets. The proposed acquisition would remove the only 
Supa IGA from Busselton. 
42. 
Market participants have submitted that the Busselton store is the only large 
supermarket that sources from local producers. The ACCC understands from its 


Coles Supermarkets Australia Pty Ltd - proposed acquisition of four 
Progressive Supa IGA stores in Western Australia (including two liquor 
licences) 
 
Page 8 of 15 
market inquiries that the Busselton store stocks a variety of local products from 
regional areas, such as milk and cheese products, which are not available in 
Coles or Woolworths (although some of these products may be available from 
other stores in the area). This market feedback suggests the Busselton store has 
a differentiated offer from Coles and Woolworths, at least to some extent. 
Halls Head market for supermarket retailing 
43. 
Halls Head is a coastal suburb of Mandurah, immediately west of Mandurah’s 
central business district. Mandurah is a city approximately 75km south of Perth. 
44. 
The Halls Head store operated by Progressive is located at the Centro Shopping 
Centre at 14 Guava Way, Halls Head. It sells a full range of supermarket 
products, including fresh produce, with a bakery, delicatessen, meat and 
seafood counter. Progressive also has a liquor store attached to the Halls Head 
store, discussed below at [66-68]. 
45. 
The following table shows the supermarkets in Halls Head. 
Table 2: Supermarkets in Halls Head 
Supermarket 
Selling floor area (m2) 
Halls Head Progressive Supa IGA 
2770 
Coles Mandurah Forum 
2319 
Coles Erskine 
2189 
Woolworths Mandurah Forum 
2909 
Woolworths Mandurah Central 
1750 
Woolworths Miami Plaza 
2175 
Foodworks Halls Head 
1500 
IGA Seascapes 
1000 
Supermarkets smaller than 1000m2 
 
IGA Halls Head (Old Bridge) 
460 
IGA Mandurah 
800 
IGA Miami 
500 
 
46. 
The location of these supermarkets is shown in the map below. 


Coles Supermarkets Australia Pty Ltd - proposed acquisition of four 
Progressive Supa IGA stores in Western Australia (including two liquor 
licences) 
 
Page 9 of 15 
Map 2: Halls Head 
 
47. 
Following the proposed acquisition of the Halls Head store, Coles would own two 
out of five supermarkets with a selling floor area of at least 1000m2 within 3km 
radius, and two out of eight such supermarkets within approximately 5km radius 
(including Woolworths Miami Plaza). The proposed acquisition would remove the 
only Supa IGA from Halls Head. 
48. 
While the proposed acquisition would remove the Supa IGA promotional cycle 
and Progressive Supa IGA product range from the Halls Head local market, 
Foodworks Halls Head would remain as a full-line independent supermarket. The 
ACCC understands that Foodworks differentiates itself from Coles and 
Woolworths by focussing on fresh produce, meat, and deli products. However, 
this Foodworks is smaller than the target Supa IGA. 
Bunbury market for supermarket retailing 
49. 
The city of Bunbury is a regional city about 190km south of Perth. 
50. 
The Bunbury store operated by Progressive is located at the Bunbury Forum 
shopping centre on Sandridge Road, Bunbury. It sells a full range of 
supermarket products, including fresh produce, with a bakery, delicatessen, 
meat and seafood counter. It has no liquor licence. 


Coles Supermarkets Australia Pty Ltd - proposed acquisition of four 
Progressive Supa IGA stores in Western Australia (including two liquor 
licences) 
 
Page 10 of 15 
51. 
The following table shows the supermarkets in Bunbury. 
Table 3: Supermarkets in Bunbury 
Supermarket 
Selling floor area (m2) 
Bunbury Progressive Supa IGA 
2146 
Coles Bunbury Centrepoint 
2738 
Coles South Bunbury 
1949 
Woolworths Bunbury Forum 
2785 
Woolworths Bunbury Plaza 
1493 
Woolworths South Bunbury 
1740 
Supermarkets smaller than 1000m2 
 
IGA Bunbury 
700 
 
52. 
The location of these supermarkets are shown in the map below. The map also 
shows the Bunbury Fresh Food Market (2000m2 selling floor area). 
Map 3: Bunbury 
 
53. 
Following the proposed acquisition of the Bunbury store, Coles would own three 
out of five supermarkets with a selling floor area of more than 1000m2 within a 
3km radius, and three out of six such supermarkets within a 5km radius. The 
proposed acquisition would remove the only Supa IGA from Bunbury, which may 
leave Woolworths as the only competing operator of such supermarkets. 


Coles Supermarkets Australia Pty Ltd - proposed acquisition of four 
Progressive Supa IGA stores in Western Australia (including two liquor 
licences) 
 
Page 11 of 15 
54. 
While the Bunbury Fresh Food Market has a strong focus on fresh produce, the 
ACCC understands that it may not have all the features of a full-line 
supermarket. Supermarkets offer customers the ability to purchase grocery and 
household items across multiple product categories and departments, and in this 
regard, they can be distinguished from fresh food market retailers such as 
Bunbury Fresh Food Market. The ACCC is continuing to consider the 
competitive constraint provided by Bunbury Fresh Food Market. 
Dianella market for supermarket retailing 
55. 
Dianella is a suburb of Perth, within the local government area of the city of 
Stirling. 
56. 
The Dianella store operated by Progressive is located in the Centro shopping 
centre, 366 Grand Promenade, Dianella. It is a full-line supermarket, including 
fresh produce, bakery, delicatessen, meat and seafood counter. It has no liquor 
licence. 
57. 
The following table shows the supermarkets in Dianella which have a selling 
floor area of more than 1000m2. There are also 11 IGAs with a selling floor area 
of less than 1000m2 which are not shown in the table or map below. 
Table 4: Supermarkets in Dianella 
Supermarket 
Selling floor area (m2) 
Dianella Progressive Supa IGA 
3042 
Coles Balcatta 
2369 
Coles Flinders Square 
2048 
Coles Inglewood 
1935 
Coles Maylands 
1838 
Coles Mirrabooka 
3076 
Coles Morley 
2269 
Coles Noranda Square 
1965 
Coles North Perth 
1893 
Woolworths Dianella 
2585 
Woolworths Dog Swamp 
2334 
Woolworths Mirrabooka 
3190 
Woolworths Morely 
2656 
Woolworths Mount Hawthorn 
2081 
Woolworths Noranda 
2963 
Farmer Jacks Morley 
2000 
IGA Inglewood Fresh 
1120 
Supa IGA Mirrabooka 
1200 
 


Coles Supermarkets Australia Pty Ltd - proposed acquisition of four 
Progressive Supa IGA stores in Western Australia (including two liquor 
licences) 
 
Page 12 of 15 
58. 
The locations of these supermarkets are shown in the map below. 
Map 4: Dianella 
 
59. 
Following the proposed acquisition of the Dianella store, Coles would own five 
out of ten supermarkets (including Coles Noranda Square) with more than 
1000m2 selling floor area within a 3km radius, and nine out of 18 such 
supermarkets within a 5km radius. The proposed acquisition would reduce the 
number of Supa IGAs from two to one within 5km of the target store (the closest 
other Supa IGA is more than 3km from the target store). 
60. 
The ACCC is considering the extent of any competitive constraint that may be 
provided by Supa IGA Mirrabooka and the new Farmer Jacks in Morley, in 
addition to the constraint that would be provided by the Woolworths 
supermarkets in the area. 
61. 
The ACCC understands from its market inquiries that the Dianella Supa IGA has 
a dedicated section offering international foods, in particular a wide variety of 
imported European and continental foods. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the effect of the proposed 
acquisition on competition in each of the local supermarket markets. In particular 
market participants may wish to comment on: 
(i) 
The extent to which the target stores contribute a retail offering that is 
differentiated from Coles, Woolworths and other independent supermarkets in 
the local markets. 


Coles Supermarkets Australia Pty Ltd - proposed acquisition of four 
Progressive Supa IGA stores in Western Australia (including two liquor 
licences) 
 
Page 13 of 15 
(ii) 
The extent to which customers value the price, promotions, service and product 
offering of the target stores, and make decisions about where to shop on the 
basis of those attributes. 
(iii) 
Details about the product range of the target stores, including the extent of its 
product range and whether it offers products that are not otherwise available in 
the local market. 
(iv) 
The likelihood of new entry of an independent full-line supermarket in the local 
markets should the proposed acquisition proceed. 
(v) 
The extent to which Coles is constrained in each local market by remaining 
independent retailers such as the Foodworks in Halls Head, the Bunbury Fresh 
Food Market in Bunbury, the Supa IGA in Mirrabooka (Dianella market) and 
Farmer Jacks in Dianella. 
Issues unlikely to pose concerns 
Busselton market for takeaway packaged liquor retailing 
62. 
Progressive has received conditional approval for a liquor licence in the 
Busselton store. It is proposed that the acquisition would include the pending 
liquor licence. Coles would operate the liquor licence under its Liquorland 
banner. 
63. 
Coles does not currently operate any liquor outlets in the Busselton area, nor are 
there any liquor aisles within the Coles supermarkets in this area. Therefore the 
ACCC’s view is that Coles’ acquisition of the pending licence would represent 
new entry in the local liquor market. 
64. 
Woolworths has two BWS outlets within a 5km radius of the target, and there are 
three independent bottleshops in the same area. 
65. 
As the proposed acquisition of this pending liquor licence by Coles represents 
new entry into the liquor retail market in Busselton, the ACCC’s preliminary view 
is that the transaction is unlikely to result in any substantial lessening of 
competition in the Busselton market for takeaway packaged liquor retailing. 
Halls Head market for takeaway packaged liquor retailing 
66. 
Progressive has a liquor store within the Halls Head store. It is proposed that 
Coles will also acquire this liquor store and operate it as a Liquorland. The 
ACCC understands Coles already operates two Liquorland stores in nearby 
Mandurah (between 3km and 5km from the target site), but does not currently 
operate any liquor licences within 3km from the target site. 
67. 
There are several competing liquor stores within 5km of the target site, including 
four Woolworths stores (two BWS stores and two Dan Murphy’s) and five 
independent stores operating under various banner groups (Cellarbrations, 
Bottlemart, Cape Cellars, Liquorstax and Liquor Barons). 
68. 
Following the acquisition, Coles will own three of 11 major liquor stores within 
5km of the target site. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the Woolworths-
owned liquor stores and the independent stores operating under banner groups 
will provide sufficient competitive constraint on the proposed Liquorland at the 
target site. 


Coles Supermarkets Australia Pty Ltd - proposed acquisition of four 
Progressive Supa IGA stores in Western Australia (including two liquor 
licences) 
 
Page 14 of 15 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the effect of the proposed 
acquisition on competition in the local takeaway packaged liquor markets. 
State-wide markets 
69. 
The ACCC’s market inquiries to date suggest that the volumes of groceries sold 
through the four target stores are such that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to 
have a material impact on the state-wide retail or wholesale markets with respect 
to supermarkets and/or liquor. 
70. 
In particular, Progressive will continue to operate stores in a number of suburbs 
in Western Australia (Armadale, Belmont, Innaloo, and Spearwood). There 
would also be 54 remaining Supa IGAs in Western Australia. 
71. 
As such, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is: 
a. not likely to affect competition in the state-wide supermarket retail 
market because it does not result in a reduction in the number of retail 
chains competing with Coles at a state-wide level 
b. not likely to have a significant impact on the buying power and 
economies of scale available to other supermarkets having regard to 
the magnitude of the change in purchasing volumes. 
72. 
Further, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the addition of two Coles-owned 
liquor stores in Western Australia is: 
a. not likely to substantially lessen competition in the state-wide retail 
market for takeaway packaged liquor, given that the proposed 
acquisition will not remove any existing liquor store or chain of stores 
either directly or indirectly 
b. not likely to substantially lessen competition in any wholesale 
acquisition market, as the proposed acquisition will only increase Coles’ 
buying power by a relatively small amount. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the effect of the proposed 
acquisition on competition in the state-wide (Western Australia) markets for: 
(i) 
supermarket and takeaway liquor retailing 
(ii) 
wholesale acquisition by supermarket retailers and wholesalers of products sold 
in supermarkets 
(iii) 
wholesale acquisition by takeaway liquor retailers of takeaway liquor products. 
ACCC's future steps 
73. 
The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers market responses 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
74. 
The ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on each of the 
issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that may be 
relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. 


Coles Supermarkets Australia Pty Ltd - proposed acquisition of four 
Progressive Supa IGA stores in Western Australia (including two liquor 
licences) 
 
Page 15 of 15 
75. 
Submissions are to be received by the ACCC no later than 24 July 2014. The 
ACCC will consider the submissions received from the market and the merger 
parties in light of the issues identified above and will, in conjunction with 
information and submissions already provided by the parties, come to a final 
view in light of the issues raised above. 
76. 
The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 14 August 2014. 
However the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Merger Review 
Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose of 
explaining the ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's public 
announcement. 
