 
 
 
 
24 July 2008 
 
Statement of Issues — Parmalat SpA and Murray 
Goulburn Co-operative Co Ltd - proposed acquisition 
of Australian Co-operative Foods Limited (Dairy 
Farmers) 
1. Outlined below is the Statement of Issues released by the Australian Competition 
and Consumer Commission (ACCC) in relation to the proposed acquisition of 
Australian Co-operative Foods Limited (Dairy Farmers) by a consortium 
comprising Murray Goulburn Co-operative Co Ltd and Parmalat SpA (proposed 
acquisition).  
2. A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well as 
identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
3. In line with the ACCC’s Merger Review Process Guidelines (available on the 
ACCC’s website at www.accc.gov.au) the ACCC has established a secondary 
timeline for further consideration of the issues. The ACCC anticipates completing 
further market inquiries by 7 August2008 and anticipates making a final decision 
on 21 August 2008. However, the anticipated timeline can change in line with the 
Merger Review Process Guidelines. To keep abreast of possible changes in 
relation to timing and to find relevant documents, market participants should visit 
the Mergers Register on the ACCC's website at www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
4. A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 
Background 
5. On 19 May 2008 Murray Goulburn Co-operative Co Ltd and Parmalat SpA 
provided their submission seeking informal clearance from the ACCC. 


Parmalat SpA and Murray Goulburn Co-operative Co Ltd - proposed  
acquisition of Australian Co-operative Foods Limited (Dairy Farmers) 
The parties 
Parmalat Australia Ltd 
6. Parmalat Australia Ltd (formerly Pauls Limited) is a wholly owned subsidiary of 
the Italian based global dairy company, Parmalat SpA (Parmalat). Parmalat is a 
processor and distributor of fresh milk and dairy products for Australian retail.  
7. Parmalat primarily produces fresh milk and other fresh dairy products. Its 
production and distribution of fresh milk and cream is concentrated largely in 
Queensland and Victoria. Its other long life and fresh dairy products and 
beverages are manufactured primarily for domestic markets and some export 
supply. 
8. In addition to production of private label dairy products, Parmalat produces under 
the following major brands: 
Product  
Brands 
Fresh White Milk 
Pauls Full Cream, Pauls Trim, Pauls Trim healthplus + FIBRE, 
Pauls Smarter White Milk, Pauls Slim, Pauls Froth Top, REV, 
REV Healthplus + FIBRE, Skinny Milk, PhysiCAL, Pure 
Organic, Pure Bio Dynamic, Zymil, Farmhouse Extra Creamy 
Fresh Flavoured 
Milk 
Breaka, Ice Break, Rush, Pauls Iced Coffee, Pauls Shake, Pauls 
Malt & Honey, Pauls All Natural 
Yoghurt 
Pauls Natural Yoghurt, Pauls Fruit Yoghurt, Vaalia 
Creams 
Pauls Pure Cream, Pauls Thickened Cream, Pauls Light 
Thickened Cream, Pauls Extra Light Thickened Cream, Pauls 
Double Thick Cream, Pauls Sour Light Cream, Pauls Sour Extra 
Light Cream 
Other 
Soy Life (soy milk and yoghurt), Pauls Buttermilk, Pauls Goat 
Milk, Pauls Custard, various fruit juices 
 
Murray Goulburn Co-operative Co Ltd 
9. Murray Goulburn Co-operative Co Limited (Murray Goulburn) is a wholly 
Australian owned company by around 2,500 supplier-shareholders. Murray 
Goulburn produces a range of products both for domestic consumption and export. 
Murray Goulburn has a raw milk intake of approximately 3.3 billion litres 
acquired from its farmer shareholders and other producers.  
10. Murray Goulburn produces around 84,000t of butter products, 124,000t of cheese, 
260,000t of milk powders and 130,000t of UHT products annually. Murray 
Goulburn exports to more than 100 countries and its international business 
 
2


Parmalat SpA and Murray Goulburn Co-operative Co Ltd - proposed  
acquisition of Australian Co-operative Foods Limited (Dairy Farmers) 
accounts for 48% of Australian dairy exports by value and 9% of world dairy 
trade. It has eight manufacturing sites located in Victoria and one in Tasmania. 
11. In addition to production of private label dairy products, Murray Goulburn 
produces under the following major retail brands: 
 
Product  
Brands  
Fresh White Milk  
Kiewa  
UHT White Milk  
Devondale Full Cream Milk, Devondale Skim Milk, Devondale 
Semi-Skim Milk, Devondale Point One, Devondale Smart Milk, 
Devondale Smart Plus, Devondale Reduce, Liddels Lactose Free 
Milk (full cream, low fat, skim)  
Flavoured UHT Milk  
Liddels Lactose Free Chocolate Milk  
Cheese  
Devondale Moo Zoo, Devondale Organic Tasty, Devondale 
Mild, Devondale Colby, Devondale Tasty, Devondale Light'N 
Tasty, Devondale Vintage, Devondale Sandwich Slices, 
Devondale Seven, Cobram Vintage Cheddar  
Butter & Spreads  
Devondale Butter, Devondale Dairy Soft, Devondale Extra Soft, 
Devondale Light, Devondale Light with Calcium  
Yoghurt  
Liddels Yoghurt  
Creams  
Devondale Thickened Cream, Devondale Long Life Thickened 
Cream, Devondale Sour Light, Liddels Lactose Free Thickened 
Light Cream  
Other  
Devondale Skim Milk Powder  
 
12. Murray Goulburn also produces a wide range of products for food services which 
are packaged in bulk, including: 
 
Product  
Brands  
Fresh White Milk  
Devondale Pasteurised Milk  
UHT White Milk  
Devondale Full Cream Milk, Devondale Skim Milk, Devondale 
Point One, Devondale Smart Milk, Devondale Smart Plus  
Cheese  
Cream Cheese, Mozzarella, Easy Melt Pizza Block, Pizza Block, 
Sandwich Slices, Seven, Tasty Cheese slices, Tasty Cheese 
Sauce, Liquid Cheddar, Cobram Tasty, Cobram Vintage, 
International Selection Brie, International Selection Blue, 
International Selection Fetta, Devondale Light & Tasty, 
Mozzshred, Shredded Tasty, Cubes Tasty, Cheddar Mild, 
Cheddar Tasty, Goday Cheddar, Cheddar vintage, Colby, 
Natural Slices  
 
3


Parmalat SpA and Murray Goulburn Co-operative Co Ltd - proposed  
acquisition of Australian Co-operative Foods Limited (Dairy Farmers) 
Butter & Spreads  
Devondale Butter, Devondale Dairy Soft, Devondale Extra Soft, 
Devondale Light, Devondale Light with Calcium  
Other  
Devondale Skim Milk Powder, Devondale Instant Skim Milk 
Powder, Devondale Dairy Bake, Devondale Full Cream Milk 
Powder, Devondale Instant Full Cream Milk Powder, Devondale 
Coffee Creamer  
 
13. Murray Goulburn also produces a range of ingredients for manufacturing under 
the Murray Goulburn Ingredients brand including various skim milk powders, full 
milk powders, buttermilk powder, milk protein concentrate, milk fat products 
(anhydrous milk fat, salted butter, unsalted butter, frozen cream, prepared edible 
fat, lactic butter), cheese products (cheddar, gouda, mozzarella/pizza cheese, 
colby, goshred, hard cheese, cream cheese, swiss cheese), whey products, casein 
and caseinates. 
Australian Co-operative Foods Limited (Dairy Farmers) 
14. Dairy Farmers is a milk processing co-operative business owned by 2,000 
Australian farmers.  Its principal activities are the collection, processing, 
manufacturing, packaging, distribution and marketing of milk and dairy products.  
Dairy Farmers retail brands include: 
Product  
Brands  
Fresh White Milk  
Dairy Farmers Whole Milk, Dairy Farmers Lite White, Dairy 
Farmers Skim Milk, Dairy Farmers Take Care, Dairy Farmers 
Crema (cafes only), Farmers Best, Shape 
UHT White Milk  
Dairy Farmers UHT 
Flavoured UHT Milk  
Oak, Moove, Dare, Just Natural, Jacaranda 
Cheese  
Coon Tasty, Coon Swiss, Coon Pasta, Coon Pizza, Coon Light & 
Tasty, Coon Mild, Cracker Barrel, Vintage Light, Cracker Barrel 
Extra Sharp, Cracker Barrel Farmhouse Style, Mil Lel Parmesan, 
Mil Lel Extra Aged Parmesan, Mil Lel Romano, Mil Lel 
Mozzarella, Mil Lel Chilli Pecorino, Dairy Farmers Cottage 
Cheese. 
Butter & Spreads  
Dairy Farmers Butter 
 
Yoghurt  
Dairy Farmers Thick & Creamy, Dairy Farmers Traditional, 
Dairy Farmers European, SKI, Bornhoffen, Dairy Farmers Kids 
Selection. 
Creams  
Dairy Farmers Thickened Cream. Dairy Farmers Pure Cream, 
Dairy Farmers Sour Cream. 
Dairy Desserts 
Dairy Farmers Custard, Dairy Farmers Kids Selection (custard) 
 
 
 
4


Parmalat SpA and Murray Goulburn Co-operative Co Ltd - proposed  
acquisition of Australian Co-operative Foods Limited (Dairy Farmers) 
15. Dairy Farmers currently manufactures and supplies whole fresh white milk, 
modified fresh white milk, UHT white milk, fresh flavoured milk, soy milk, 
buttermilk, yoghurt, dairy desserts, custard, cream, sour cream, cheese and milk 
powders. 
16. Under a 2004 restructure, Dairy Farmers was established as a separate co-
operative from Dairy Farmers Milk Co-operative Limited (Supply Co-operative). 
19.99% of Dairy Farmers is held by the supply cooperative, with the balance 
owned by members of Dairy Farmers.  
Transaction structure 
17. Parmalat and Murray Goulburn have formed a consortium with a view to 
acquiring Dairy Farmers. The structure of the transaction has not yet been finally 
determined but key aspects of the structure currently proposed are outlined below: 
• Parmalat will merge with the fresh dairy business of Dairy Farmers (comprising 
the white milk, impulse and dairy foods businesses of Dairy Farmers) to create 
a fresh dairy focussed company (Fresh Dairy Co); 
• Murray Goulburn will acquire the non-fresh dairy businesses of Dairy Farmers, 
(comprising the dairy cheese and ingredients businesses of Dairy Farmers); and 
• Parmalat will ultimately hold 51% of Fresh Dairy Co, giving Parmalat 
operational control of the fresh dairy business, and Murray Goulburn will hold 
49% of Fresh Dairy Co. 
Other industry participants 
18. The industry is characterised by a mix of large, diversified dairy processors, 
product specific manufacturers and customers of varying size and complexity. 
19. Other diversified dairy processors include National Foods Limited and Fonterra 
Cooperative Group Limited. Processors in this category have a range of products 
across most, if not all, dairy categories. 
20. Some processors tend to be more export focussed including Warrnambool Cheese 
and Butter Factory Company Limited, Tatura and Fonterra. This category of 
processors operate mostly from Victoria and focus on export dairy products such 
as cheese, milk powders, milk proteins and whey. 
21. Specific product manufacturers are largely those in the fresh dairy category, and 
include the Tamar Valley and Jalna yoghurt producers. 
22. Customers of dairy processors include retailers who on-sell dairy products and 
input consumers who use the products as an input for further consumer products.  
Retailers include the major grocers of Coles and Woolworths, independent grocers 
and suppliers of grocery items, and members of the route trade including service 
stations and convenience stores.  Input consumers include the food service 
industry such as restaurants, take away stores and consumer foods manufacturers. 
 
5


Parmalat SpA and Murray Goulburn Co-operative Co Ltd - proposed  
acquisition of Australian Co-operative Foods Limited (Dairy Farmers) 
Areas of overlap and market definition 
23. From its inquiries, the ACCC understands that the primary areas of substantial 
overlap between Dairy Farmers, Parmalat and Murray Goulburn to be: 
• 
the acquisition of raw milk in south east Queensland and northern New 
South Wales; 
• 
the manufacture and wholesale supply of fresh white milk in Queensland; 
• 
the manufacture and wholesale supply of flavoured milk in Queensland; 
• 
the manufacture and supply of dairy deserts such as yoghurt nationally; 
• 
the manufacture and supply of cheese nationally; 
• 
the manufacture and wholesale supply of custards nationally, and; 
• 
the manufacture and wholesale supply of UHT white milk nationally. 
Market inquiries 
24. On 19 May 2008 the ACCC commenced market inquiries regarding the proposed 
acquisition. Interested party responses were received from a range of industry 
participants, including participants in the route trade, food service industry and 
other suppliers of processed dairy products. 
Statement of issues 
25. For the purposes of this Statement of Issues, the issues in this matter are divided 
into three categories, 'issues of concern', 'issues that may raise concerns' and 
'issues unlikely to pose concerns'. 
Issues of concern 
Competition in the supply of flavoured milk in Queensland 
 
26. The ACCC has formed the preliminary view that the proposed acquisition will be 
likely to substantially lessen competition in the market for the manufacture and 
wholesale supply of flavoured milks in Queensland.  
27. From its inquiries the ACCC understands that both Parmalat and Dairy Farmers 
are significant suppliers of flavoured milk in Queensland.  Market inquiries 
indicate that Parmalat has approximately a two-thirds market share in Queensland 
with its Breaka and Ice Break brands.  Dairy Farmers has approximately one 
quarter of the Queensland market with its Moove, Oak and Dare brands.  Post 
acquisition the merged entity may have approximately 85-90% of the sale of 
flavoured milk in Queensland. 
 
6


Parmalat SpA and Murray Goulburn Co-operative Co Ltd - proposed  
acquisition of Australian Co-operative Foods Limited (Dairy Farmers) 
28. The ACCC invites further information and comments as to the strength of 
competitive constraints operating on the merged entity for the manufacture of 
flavoured milk post-acquisition.  The possible constraints identified by the ACCC 
are discussed below, and include the threat of entry and expansion, competition 
from suppliers of impulse beverages, countervailing and bargaining power from 
retailers.  
Threat of new entry and expansion 
29. Inquiries have indicated that manufacturers of non-incumbent brands have 
experienced significant difficulties in expanding their operations beyond their 
‘home’ states/territories, with brand loyalty a key impediment to expansion. For 
example, some market participants have noted difficulties faced by National 
Foods in gaining market share for its flavoured milk brands in Queensland whilst 
being a significant competitor in New South Wales.  
30. Brand strength may also make it difficult for suppliers with a fresh milk 
manufacturing presence in Queensland to expand into flavoured milks. 
31. The ACCC is concerned that the threat of new entry or expansion, in a timely 
manner and with sufficient scale to defeat an increase in price of flavoured milk 
by the merged entity, is low.  The ACCC invites market participants to provide 
comment on, and preferably provide specific examples of, the competitiveness of 
other actual or potential Australian suppliers of flavoured milks, particularly with 
regard to entry into and expansion in the Queensland market.   
32. The ACCC seeks information which supports or challenges the view that the level 
of brand loyalty in the flavoured milk markets prevents new entry or expansion.   
The ACCC also seeks information and data (including market shares) regarding 
product launches and any failures in the flavoured milk market in recent years, 
particularly where these involve a launch beyond a firm’s traditional ‘home’ state 
or territory. 
33. The ACCC also seeks information supporting or contradicting the view that the 
level of brand loyalty in the flavoured milk markets prevents or hinders new entry 
or expansion. 
Impulse beverages 
34. Some market participants have indicated that flavoured milks participate within a 
more general impulse beverages market.  Impulse beverages include soft drinks, 
sports drinks, energy drinks and breakfast drinks.  In support of this argument it 
has been suggested that: 
• 
on the demand side, flavoured milk provides an impulse beverage for 
immediate consumption, and that a price increase would lead to a switching 
to other impulse beverages; and 
• 
the target demographic for soft drinks and flavoured milks are similar, such 
that flavoured milk producers encourage route trade placement of products 
in close proximity to soft drinks. 
 
7


Parmalat SpA and Murray Goulburn Co-operative Co Ltd - proposed  
acquisition of Australian Co-operative Foods Limited (Dairy Farmers) 
35. The ACCC notes the entry of Coca-Cola Amatil (CCA) into the flavoured milk 
market in Western Australia with the Goulburn Valley flavoured milk product in 
September 2007.  That CCA developed its own flavoured milk product rather than 
compete using its Powerade (sports drink) or Coca-Cola (soft drink) may be a 
strong indication that the products of other impulse beverage manufacturers are 
not close substitutes for flavoured milks. 
36. The ACCC also notes significant supply side differences between flavoured milks 
and other impulse beverages.  There are significantly different input and 
processing requirements, requirements for refrigerated transportation and 
distribution, and in the case of fresh flavoured milks, the limited shelf life also 
limits transportation distances. 
37. The ACCC is of the preliminary view that other impulse beverages offer a weak 
constraint, at best, for flavoured milks.  The ACCC will consider further 
submissions on the extent to which, if any, impulse beverages constrain flavoured 
milk pricing.  In particular, the ACCC is seeking data or information quantifying 
the likely decrease in flavoured milk volume sales and increase in other impulse 
beverage volume that would be expected in response to a specific price increase 
for flavoured milk.  
38. The ACCC is further seeking comments on the extent to which Murray Goulburn 
and Parmalat could profitably increase prices of flavoured milk in Queensland 
above competitive levels after acquiring Dairy Farmers. To what extent would 
price increases be unprofitable due to the loss of significant volumes of sales to 
other impulse beverages? 
Bargaining and countervailing power 
39. The ACCC notes that, unlike fresh white milk products, up to 70% of flavoured 
milk products are sold through the route trade.  The ACCC also notes that there is 
not the prevalence of private label flavoured milk as there is of fresh white milk. 
40. The ACCC is therefore of the view that the bargaining power that may be enjoyed 
by supermarket chains and others through the volume of sales and the prevalence 
of private label products may not be as effective to resist a price rise above 
competitive levels post-acquisition in the Queensland flavoured milk market. 
41. The ACCC also notes that countervailing power – or the threat to self supply, 
bypass or sponsor new entry – does not appear strong in the Queensland flavoured 
milk market. 
UHT flavoured milk 
42. The ACCC notes that UHT flavoured milk and its different supply side attributes 
make it more transportable, for example by removing the need for chilled 
refrigeration.  Estimates provided during inquiries indicate that UHT flavoured 
milks constitute approximately 6% of overall flavoured milk sales.  The ACCC 
therefore is of the view that the analysis is unlikely to change with or without the 
inclusion of UHT milks. 
 
8


Parmalat SpA and Murray Goulburn Co-operative Co Ltd - proposed  
acquisition of Australian Co-operative Foods Limited (Dairy Farmers) 
Issues that may raise concerns 
Supply of fresh white milk in south east Queensland 
43. Inquiries have indicated that the merged entity will be the largest supplier of fresh 
white milk in south east Queensland post acquisition. The ACCC considers the 
proposed acquisition may raise concerns for competition for the supply of fresh 
milk in Queensland. Competition concerns will arise if the merged entity is able to 
use its post acquisition market position to sustain an increase in the price of fresh 
white milk in south east Queensland. 
44. The ACCC has considered wholesale supply of fresh white milk markets in a 
number of previous circumstances, including Fonterra Co-operative Limited - 
proposed acquisition of National Foods Ltd, 2005; Australian Co-operative Foods 
Limited – proposed acquisition of Perfection Dairies Pty Ltd and its subsidiaries, 
2008. 
45. Given an average transport cost of 2.2cpl for fresh white milk, and its limited shelf 
life, the ACCC considers the relevant economic market for the purposes of this 
competition assessment is likely to be the wholesale supply of fresh white milk in 
south east Queensland. 
46. Post acquisition, the merged entity will have in excess of 50% market share in 
south east Queensland.  Some post-acquisition competition will remain with 
National Foods at approximately 25-35% market share and Fonterra and others 
making up the remainder of the market. 
47. Inquiries indicate that private label fresh white milk sales in south east 
Queensland account for approximately 30% of the fresh white milk market. 
48. The ACCC seeks more information in relation to this issue, including any 
information that goes to: 
a. the extent to which National Foods and / or Fonterra would be able to provide 
a competitive alternative in the event of a small but significant non-transitory 
price rise by the merged entity; 
b. the extent to which each of the following factors affects the ability for 
National Foods and / or Fonterra to provide a competitive alternative: 
i. 
the role of branding in Fresh White Milk; 
ii. 
being a supplier of Fresh White Milk private labels; and 
iii. 
any other relevant factors, 
c. whether the proposed acquisition would affect the ability of incumbents or 
new entrants to obtain a private label contract, and 
 
9


Parmalat SpA and Murray Goulburn Co-operative Co Ltd - proposed  
acquisition of Australian Co-operative Foods Limited (Dairy Farmers) 
d. the extent of barriers to entry and whether the proposed acquisition will 
increase the barriers to entry to the south east Queensland fresh white milk 
market.   
National supply of UHT white milk 
49. Inquiries have suggested that Murray Goulburn is the largest domestic supplier of 
UHT white milk in Australia. Information provided to the ACCC suggests that 
Murray Goulburn’s nearest competitors are National Foods, Dairy Farmers and 
Parmalat with a combined market share of around 20% of domestic sales of 
branded UHT white milk. 
50. The ACCC is therefore concerned that with such significant market share a further 
increase arising from the proposed acquisition may raise concerns for the national 
supply of UHT white milk. 
51. The ACCC invites market participants to provide comment on the competitiveness 
of the national UHT supply market both with and without the proposed 
acquisition. The ACCC particularly seeks responses to: 
i. 
Whether there any other competitors in the national UHT supply market 
who have spare capacity and would be able to constrain the merged entity in 
the event prices are raised above competitive levels. 
 
ii. 
By how much would the merged entity have to increase the price of its 
branded UHT white milk in order to prompt fresh white milk processors - 
who do not also produce UHT white milk at certain plants - to expand into 
producing UHT white milk at these processing plants.   
 
iii. 
By how much would the merged entity have to increase the price of its 
branded UHT white milk before consumers turned to fresh white milk or 
other possible substitutes. 
 
iv. 
Whether the potential for imports of UHT white milk would be likely to 
constrain the merged entity from raising prices above competitive levels. 
 
v. 
The significance of private label sales as a proportion of total sales of UHT 
white milk, including the level of bargaining or countervailing power the 
large supermarket chains (such as Woolworths and Coles) have in relation 
to the prices of these private label products. 
Issues unlikely to pose concerns 
Acquisition of raw milk in south-east Queensland and northern NSW 
 
52. The ACCC considers the proposed acquisition is unlikely to raise concerns for 
competition for the acquisition of raw milk in south-east Queensland and northern 
NSW.  
53. The ACCC has considered raw milk acquisition markets in a number of previous 
circumstances, including a series of merger reviews and applications for 
 
10


Parmalat SpA and Murray Goulburn Co-operative Co Ltd - proposed  
acquisition of Australian Co-operative Foods Limited (Dairy Farmers) 
authorisation in the dairy industry. For the purposes of this matter, the ACCC has 
explored the acquisition costs of raw milk, and in particular the transport costs to 
acquire raw milk. The ACCC considers that transport costs associated with 
acquiring raw milk from other regions are likely to limit the market 
geographically. Therefore, the ACCC has delineated a market for the acquisition 
of raw milk in south-east Queensland and northern NSW. 
54. Inquiries have indicated that Dairy Farmers and Parmalat are the two largest 
acquirers of raw milk in the relevant market with a combined share of 
approximately 60-70%. Their nearest competitors are Norco/Fonterra and 
National Foods with approximately 10-20% each. 
55. However, the ACCC understands that these competitors have available spare 
capacity, and compete strongly with Parmalat for the acquisition of raw milk. The 
ACCC considers that there are no significant barriers preventing farmers from 
switching between processors. Based on these factors, the ACCC considers that 
competition for the acquisition of raw milk provided by Norco/Fonterra and 
National Foods is likely to mitigate potential competition concerns.  
56. The ACCC is therefore of the view that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to 
raise concerns in relation to the acquisition of raw milk in south-east Queensland 
and northern NSW, but will accept further submissions from industry participants 
and will further consider this product area if it considers that such an assessment is 
warranted. 
National supply of cheese 
 
57. The ACCC considers that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to raise concerns in 
relation to the manufacture and national supply of cheese. 
58. The ACCC understands that cheese is both an export and import product for 
Australia, and that most cheese suppliers in Australia also compete on 
international markets for cheese supply. There is no significant difference between 
the cheese that is exported and that sold on the Australian domestic market such 
that should the merged entity attempt to increase price post acquisition export 
cheese may be redirected to the Australian market and may serve to restrict a price 
rise to some extent. 
59. The ACCC also notes that there will be significant excess capacity with those 
cheese producers who will remain as competitors to the merged entity post 
acquisition.   
60. The ACCC is therefore of the view that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to 
raise concerns in relation to the manufacture and national supply of cheese, but 
will accept further submissions from industry participants and will further 
consider this product area if it considers that such an assessment is warranted. 
National supply of custard 
61. Inquiries have indicated that Parmalat and Dairy Farmers are the two most 
significant manufacturers of custard and will hold most of the post-acquisition 
 
11


Parmalat SpA and Murray Goulburn Co-operative Co Ltd - proposed  
acquisition of Australian Co-operative Foods Limited (Dairy Farmers) 
market share. Despite market share figures, the ACCC considers that an effective 
competitive constraint on the merged entity will be held by the threat of new 
entry, given that barriers to entry appear low. The ACCC also notes information 
from market inquiries that end consumers may have some countervailing power 
due to their ability to make their own custard. 
62. The ACCC is therefore of the view that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to 
raise concerns in relation to the national market for the supply of custard but invite 
further submissions from industry participants and will further consider this 
product area if it considers that such an assessment is warranted. 
Other markets 
63. The merger parties also overlap in varying degrees in other markets outside of 
those discussed above, including: regional markets for the acquisition of raw milk, 
state markets for the supply of fresh and flavoured milks, fresh dairy products 
(dairy desserts and yoghurts) and non-fresh dairy.  On the basis of limited 
aggregation, existence of remaining strong competitors and/or the strong 
bargaining position of customers, the ACCC does not believe that competition 
concerns are likely to arise in those markets.   
64. The ACCC will accept further submissions on these areas from industry 
participants, and will further consider these areas if it believes such an assessment 
is warranted. 
ACCC's future steps 
65. The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers market responses 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
66. The ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on each of the issues 
identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that may be relevant 
to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. 
67. Submissions are to be received by the ACCC no later than 7 August 2008. The 
ACCC will consider the submissions received from the market and the merger 
parties in light of the issues identified above and will, in conjunction with 
information and submissions already provided by the parties, come to a final view 
as to the appropriate course of action to take to resolve any competition concerns 
that remain. 
68. The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 21 August 2008. 
However the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Merger Review 
Process Guidelines. A public Competition Assessment for the purpose of 
explaining the ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's public 
announcement. 
 
12
