 
 
 
Land of the Wurundjeri people of the Kulin Nation
Level 17, 2 Lonsdale Street
Melbourne Vic 3000
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
Tel 03 9290 1800
www.accc.gov.au
Our ref: 
IM-72818 
 
11 February 2025 
Dear Interested Party 
Re: ACCC seeking your views: Cement Australia, Holcim and Heidelberg Materials 
Australia’s acquisition of BGC’s cementitious assets 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on the 
proposed acquisition by Cement Australia (Queensland) Pty Ltd  (a wholly owned subsidiary 
of Cement Australia Holdings Pty Ltd (Cement Australia)), Holcim (Australia) Pty Ltd 
(Holcim) and Heidelberg Materials Australia Pty Ltd (HMA) (together ‘the Acquiring Parties’) 
of BGC Australia Pty Ltd’s (BGC Group) cement, quarry, ready-mix concrete (RMX), asphalt, 
transport and materials technology centre assets (BGC Cementitious) (the Proposed 
Acquisition). 
Cement Australia, Holcim, HMA and BGC Cementitious are suppliers of various construction 
materials including cement, aggregates, concrete and asphalt. 
Cement Australia has proposed to offer a court enforceable undertaking to address potential 
competition issues. The proposed undertaking would involve the divestiture of the BGC 
Wangara RMX plant (in greater Perth) to an ACCC-approved buyer following completion of 
the Proposed Acquisition. 
Further details can be found in Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact on competition of the Proposed 
Acquisition. In particular, we are seeking your views on:  
• 
how closely BGC, Holcim and HMA compete with each other in the supply of 
aggregates and RMX in Western Australia 
• 
the impact of the Proposed Acquisition (including overlaps and vertical relationships) 
on the price and/or service quality for aggregates, cement, RMX and asphalt 
• 
Cement Australia’s proposed divestiture, and 
• 
whether customers would have sufficient alternative suppliers for aggregates, 
cement, RMX and asphalt post Proposed Acquisition. 
Further issues you may wish to address are set out at Attachment B. 
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 


 
 
 
2 
 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market.  
Please provide your response by 5pm on 25 February 2025 via email to 
mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: Submission re: Cement Australia - BGC. If you require 
more time to respond, please let us know. 
If you would like to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any questions about this 
letter, please contact mergers@accc.gov.au.   
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public Mergers 
Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We will not 
disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by 
law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or during court proceedings) or in 
accordance with s155AAA of the CCA. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where possible so that you may have an 
opportunity to be heard. Therefore, if the information provided to the ACCC is of a 
confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines 
contain more information on confidentiality. 
 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
Morag Bond 
General Manager  
Merger Investigations 


 
 
 
3 
 
Attachment A 
The proposed acquisition 
Cement Australia, Holcim and HMA propose to acquire BGC Cementitious from BGC Group. 
BGC Cementitious comprises BGC Cement, BGC Concrete, BGC Quarries, BGC Asphalt, BGC 
Transport and the company’s Materials Technology Centre. The proposed acquisition does 
not include other assets or businesses of BGC Group such as windows, engineered 
suspended flooring, brick, masonry or pre-cast materials. 
Cement Australia 
Cement Australia is a privately held 50:50 joint venture between Holcim and HMA. Cement 
Australia supplies cementitious products and services, including bulk and packaged cement, 
fly ash and slag products. 
Cement Australia has operations in New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia, 
ACT, Western Australia and Tasmania. Cement Australia does not have any cement or slag 
cement production facilities in Western Australia.1 
The operations of Cement Australia are governed by an existing Framework Agreement 
which establishes ring-fencing as between Cement Australia, Holcim and HMA, putting in 
place restrictions to prevent Holcim and HMA from accessing information about the sale of 
cementitious products by Cement Australia to each other party to the joint venture or to 
other customers.  
Holcim 
Holcim is a Swiss multinational company that manufactures and supplies various building 
materials across Australia, including aggregates, concrete and pre-cast pipes. In Western 
Australia, Holcim owns and operates a number of RMX plants and quarries (hard rock and 
sand). 
HMA 
HMA is a German multinational company that manufactures and supplies various building 
materials across Australia, including aggregates, concrete and asphalt. In Western Australia, 
HMA owns and operates a number of RMX plants and quarries (hard rock and sand). 
BGC Cementitious 
BGC Cementitious is a division of the BGC Group which supplies cementitious products in 
Western Australia including: 
• 
cement and slag through BGC Cement 
• 
aggregate (hard rock and manufactured sand) through BGC Quarries, which operates 
a hard rock quarry at the Lakes 
• 
RMX through BGC Concrete, and 
• 
asphalt through BGC Asphalt. 
 
1  
The ACCC understands that Cement Australia acquires and resupplies cement to Holcim and HMA in WA, and Cement 
Australia does not resupply cement that it acquires to third parties in WA. 


 
 
 
4 
 
BGC Transport owns and operates a number of vehicles, operating out of different hubs 
used in the BGC Cementitious business. BGC’s Materials Technology Centre is a testing 
laboratory for cement, concrete, asphalt and related products located in Hazelmere.   
Transaction structure 
The BGC Cementitious assets are proposed to be allocated between the Acquiring Parties as 
follows:  
• 
BCG Cement will be acquired and operated by Cement Australia.  
• 
BGC Quarries and BGC Asphalt will be acquired and operated by a new 50:50 joint 
venture between Holcim and HMA, which will operate as a production joint venture in 
respect of aggregates.  
• 
Eight of BGC Concrete’s RMX sites in greater Perth will be divided between Holcim 
and HMA. Holcim will acquire the RMX sites at Quinns Rocks, Canning Vale, 
Hazelmere and Mandurah (4 in total). HMA will acquire the RMX sites at Armadale, 
Kwinana, Bassendean and Moora (4 in total).  
Cement Australia proposes to divest the remaining BGC RMX site (see below). 
Potential section 87B Undertaking 
Cement Australia has proposed to offer a court-enforceable undertaking pursuant to section 
87B of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth).  
Cement Australia proposes to divest the BGC Wangara RMX plant (located at 329 Gnangara 
Road, Wangara WA 6065) to an ACCC-approved buyer following completion of the Proposed 
Acquisition. Both Holcim and HMA operate sites in close proximity to the BGC Wangara 
RMX plant.  
As part of its review, the ACCC is seeking preliminary views on whether the divestiture of the 
BGC Wangara RMX plant is, in principle, capable of addressing any competition concerns 
raised by the Proposed Acquisition.  
The ACCC has not yet decided whether this type of undertaking, or any undertaking at all, 
would be capable of addressing any competition concerns arising from the proposed 
acquisition. The ACCC may consult on the specific terms of a proposed undertaking as its 
review progresses.  
 


 
 
 
5 
 
Attachment B 
1. Please provide a brief description of your business or organisation. 
2. Please outline the reasons for your interest in the proposed acquisition, including any 
commercial relationship(s) with Cement Australia, Holcim, HMA and/or BGC. This will 
help us better understand your views. 
Areas of overlap & vertical relationships 
The ACCC understands that Holcim, HMA and BGC overlap in the supply of aggregates and 
RMX in Western Australia, and that none of Cement Australia, Holcim or HMA supply cement 
or asphalt in Western Australia (except for the cement that Cement Australia acquires and 
resupplies to Holcim and HMA). 
The ACCC notes that  aggregates are a key input into RMX production and asphalt 
production.  
In answering the questions below, please consider RMX and asphalt, their key inputs and any 
other products which Cement Australia, Holcim, HMA and BGC compete to supply. 
3. How closely do Cement Australia, Holcim, HMA and BGC compete to provide goods and 
services in Western Australia, taking into account factors such as: 
a)  price, including specials, discounts and promotions 
b)  quality and range of goods, service quality 
c)  customer type 
d)  geographic location, and 
e)  reputation. 
4. Identify and describe the main competitors of Cement Australia, Holcim, HMA and BGC 
in the supply of aggregates, cement, RMX and asphalt. Describe whether the state of 
competition differs within the greater Perth area and/or between the greater Perth area, 
Western Australia and Australia and if so, how.  
5. To what extent are the products or inputs for the products supplied by Cement Australia, 
Holcim, HMA and BGC imported into Western Australia (either domestically or 
internationally)? Please identify the parties who currently import these products and their 
estimated production capacity , if known. Are there any barriers which may prevent 
imports expanding? For example, price differences, product range, quality, shipping 
costs, supply risks and lead times. 
6. Describe barriers a business may face in commencing or increasing supply of 
aggregates, cement, RMX and/or asphalt in Western Australia. (For example investment 
costs, regulatory barriers or existing long term contracts.)  
7. Identify and provide details of any aggregate, cement, RMX or asphalt products you 
acquire from Cement Australia, Holcim, HMA and/or BGC or that you supply in Western 
Australia.  


 
 
 
6 
 
8. Describe the extent to which products including aggregates, cement, RMX and asphalt 
supplied by Cement Australia, Holcim, HMA and/or BGC in Western Australia are 
alternatives for each other and whether there are other alternatives to these products. In 
your response, consider:  
a)  price 
b)  quality 
c)  product range 
d)  geographic location of relevant plants and transit time.  
9. Describe the geographic area over which aggregates, cement, RMX and/or asphalt are 
generally sourced in Western Australia. Can customers source these products from 
further away in response to a price increase? In your response, please describe the 
transport costs and other relevant factors which influence the suitable transit time. 
10. Describe how frequently customers typically switch suppliers for aggregates, cement, 
RMX and/or asphalt, and the factors which influence the decision to switch. 
11. Describe how the prices of aggregate, cement, RMX and asphalt are determined, and 
provide details of the factors that influence the prices such as volumes purchased and 
international import prices of the products and/or their inputs.  
Other information or competition issues 
12. Outline any concerns you may have about the proposed acquisition, including any impact 
on price, service quality, or choice of suppliers. 
13. Provide any additional information or comments that you consider relevant to the 
ACCC’s consideration of the proposed acquisition. 
Proposed section 87B undertaking 
14. Please explain whether Cement Australia’s proposed divestiture would or would not fully 
address any competition concerns you have in relation to the Proposed Acquisition.  
