 
 
 
Land of the Wurundjeri people of the Kulin Nation
Level 17, 2 Lonsdale Street
Melbourne Vic 3000
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
Tel 03 9290 1800
www.accc.gov.au
Our ref: IM-72818 
 
30 May 2025 
Dear Interested Party 
Re: ACCC seeking your views: Cement Australia, Holcim, Heidelberg Materials 
Australia and Adbri’s acquisition of BGC’s cementitious assets 
In February 2025, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) 
commenced its informal review of Cement Australia (Queensland) Pty Ltd (a wholly owned 
subsidiary of Cement Australia Holdings Pty Ltd (Cement Australia)), Holcim (Australia) Pty 
Ltd (Holcim) and Heidelberg Materials Australia Pty Ltd’s (HMA) proposal to acquire BGC 
Cementitious (the Initial Proposed Acquisition).  
In response to preliminary competition concerns raised by the ACCC, Cement Australia, 
Holcim, and HMA put forward a restructured proposed transaction with BGC’s support, that 
incorporates Adbri Pty Ltd (Adbri) as a party. Under the restructured transaction: 
• 
Adbri will acquire certain BGC Cementitious assets, including BGC Quarries, BGC 
Asphalt, six of BGC Concrete’s ready-mix concrete (RMX) sites, two mobile concrete 
plants and the transport assets associated with those assets and the company’s 
Materials Technology Centre (excluding cement-related assets),  
• 
Cement Australia, Holcim and HMA will acquire the remaining assets (being the cement 
plant and the transport assets associated with cement plant, and three RMX sites) (the 
Amended Proposed Acquisition).  
Further details about the parties and the Amended Proposed Acquisition can be found in 
Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigation is now focused on the impact on competition of the Amended 
Proposed Acquisition. In particular, we are seeking your views on:  
• 
the extent to which having two suppliers of cement with vertical relationships to RMX 
suppliers in Greater Perth will impact competition and in particular the supply of RMX 
• 
how closely Holcim, HMA and BGC currently compete in the supply of RMX in greater 
Perth, with a focus on BGC’s RMX plants at Bassendean, Canning Vale and Kwinana, 
and 
• 
whether Adbri’s acquisition of BGC Quarries, BGC Asphalt or the transport operations 
(which will service the BGC Quarries and Asphalt business units, as well as the RMX 
sites acquired by Adbri) raises competition concerns, particularly in the supply of asphalt 
or RMX.   


 
 
 
2 
 
Further issues you may wish to address are set out at Attachment C. 
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the Amended Proposed Acquisition is 
in section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions 
that are likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market.  
Please provide your response by 5pm AEST on 13 June 2025 via email to 
mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: Submission re: Cement Australia – Adbri - BGC. If you 
require more time to respond, please let us know. 
If you would like to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any questions about this 
letter, please contact mergers@accc.gov.au.   
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public Mergers 
Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the Amended Proposed Acquisition. We 
will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) unless 
compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or during court 
proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the CCA. Where the ACCC is required to 
disclose confidential information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where possible so that 
you may have an opportunity to be heard. Therefore, if the information provided to the ACCC 
is of a confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our Informal Merger Review Process 
Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
Morag Bond 
General Manager  
Merger Investigations 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
3 
 
Attachment A – Overview of parties, the Initial Proposed Acquisition and 
Amended Proposed Acquisition 
Cement Australia 
Cement Australia is a privately held 50:50 joint venture between Holcim and HMA. Cement 
Australia supplies cementitious products and services, including bulk and packaged cement, 
fly ash and slag products.  
Cement Australia has operations in NSW, Victoria, Queensland, SA, ACT, WA and 
Tasmania. Cement Australia does not have any cement or slag production facilities in WA.1  
The operations of Cement Australia are governed by a Framework Agreement which 
establishes ring-fencing between Cement Australia, Holcim and HMA, placing restrictions on 
Holcim and HMA from accessing information about the sale of cementitious products by 
Cement Australia to each other party to the joint venture or to other customers.  
Holcim 
Holcim is a Swiss multinational company that manufactures and supplies various building 
materials across Australia, including aggregates, concrete and pre-cast pipes. In Western 
Australia, Holcim owns and operates several RMX plants and quarries (hard rock and sand). 
HMA 
HMA is a German multinational company that manufactures and supplies various building 
materials across Australia, including aggregates, concrete and asphalt. In Western Australia, 
HMA owns and operates a number of RMX plants and quarries (hard rock and sand). 
Adbri  
Adbri is an Australian company owned by CRH ANZ Pty Ltd and the Barro Group. Adbri 
manufactures, imports and supplies various building materials across Australia, including 
clinker, cement, quicklime, aggregates, RMX, concrete masonry products and 
supplementary cementitious materials such as fly ash and slag.  
In WA, Adbri produces and supplies cement, slag and lime through its subsidiary, Cockburn 
Cement Limited. Adbri has two cement mills, located in Munster and Kwinana. However, 
Adbri’s cement production sites are currently being consolidated into a single upgraded site 
at Kwinana. This will result in an increase in Adbri’s total cement production capacity, from 
1.1 to 1.5 million tonnes per annum.2 Adbri does not currently hold any assets or operate in 
markets for the supply of aggregates, RMX or asphalt in WA. 
BGC Cementitious 
BGC Cementitious is a division of the BGC Group which supplies cementitious products in 
WA including: 
• 
cement and slag through BGC Cement 
• 
aggregate (hard rock and manufactured sand) through BGC Quarries, which 
operates a hard rock quarry at The Lakes 
 
1The ACCC understands that Cement Australia acquires and resupplies cement to Holcim and HMA in WA, and Cement 
Australia does not resupply cement that it acquires to third parties in WA. 
2 Refer to the Adbri ASX announcement: https://www.asx.com.au/asxpdf/20201217/pdf/44r1p415srn4l2.pdf 


 
 
 
4 
 
• 
RMX through BGC Concrete, and 
• 
asphalt through BGC Asphalt. 
BGC Transport owns and operates a number of vehicles, operating out of different hubs 
used in the BGC Cementitious business. BGC’s Materials Technology Centre is a testing 
laboratory for cement, concrete, asphalt and related products located in Hazelmere.  
The Initial Proposed Acquisition 
As a part of the Initial Proposed Acquisition, Cement Australia, Holcim and HMA were to 
acquire the BGC Cementitious assets as follows: 
• 
BGC Cement was to be acquired and operated by Cement Australia.  
• 
BGC Quarries and BGC Asphalt were to be acquired and operated by a new 50:50 
joint venture between Holcim and HMA, which would operate as a production joint 
venture in respect of aggregates.  
• 
Eight of BGC Concrete’s RMX sites in greater Perth were to be divided between 
Holcim and HMA. Holcim would acquire the RMX sites at Quinns Rocks, Canning 
Vale, Hazelmere and Mandurah. HMA would acquire the RMX sites at Armadale, 
Kwinana, Bassendean and Moora.   
Under the Initial Proposed Acquisition, Cement Australia had proposed to offer a court-
enforceable undertaking pursuant to section 87B of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 
(Cth) by which Cement Australia had proposed to divest the BGC Wangara RMX plant 
(located at 329 Gnangara Road, Wangara WA 6065) to an ACCC-approved buyer following 
completion.  
The ACCC commenced inquiries on the Initial Proposed Acquisition and received market 
feedback on the Initial Proposed Acquisition from a range of market participants at various 
levels of the relevant supply chains, including aggregates, cement, RMX and asphalt.  
Following market inquiries, the ACCC informed the merger parties  that it had preliminary, 
but significant competition concerns with the transaction.  
In particular, the ACCC advised that it had significant competition concerns in respect of: 
• 
the supply of hard rock aggregates in Greater Perth 
• 
the supply of RMX in Greater Perth. 
The ACCC also advised that it was continuing to investigate the competitive effects in the 
supply of cement in Greater Perth. 
Overview of the Amended Proposed Acquisition 
Following the ACCC advising the parties of its competition concerns with the Initial Proposed 
Acquisition, Cement Australia, Holcim, HMA and BGC put forward the Amended Proposed 
Acquisition.   
Under the Amended Proposed Acquisition, Cement Australia, Holcim, HMA and Adbri 
propose to acquire BGC Cementitious from BGC Group, with the assets to be split as 
follows:  
1. Adbri to acquire: 
o BGC Quarries and BGC Asphalt. 


 
 
 
5 
 
o Six of BGC Concrete’s RMX sites in greater Perth, specifically, plants at 
Hazelmere, Armadale, Quinns Rock, Wangara, Mandurah and Moora and two 
mobile concrete plants currently located at Hazelmere and Rottnest Island.  
o Transport operations which service the BGC Quarries and Asphalt business 
units and the six RMX sites outlined above.   
o BGC Materials Technology Centre, excluding cement-related assets.  
2. Cement Australia to acquire: 
o BGC Cement, including the transport assets associated with BGC Cement 
and the cement assets associated with the BGC Materials Technology 
Centre.  
o BGC Concrete’s RMX site at Kwinana, which Cement Australia will lease to 
Holcim.    
3. HMA to acquire: 
o BGC Concrete’s RMX site at Bassendean.  
4. Holcim to acquire: 
o BGC Concrete’s RMX site at Canning Vale. 
A map of the BGC fixed plant RMX locations in Greater Perth being acquired by Holcim, 
HMA and Adbri can be found at Attachment C. 
The ACCC’s investigation is now focused on the impact on competition of the Amended 
Proposed Acquisition. In particular, we are seeking your views on the following: 
• 
the extent to which having two suppliers of cement with vertical relationships to RMX 
suppliers in Greater Perth will impact competition, in particular downstream rival RMX 
suppliers 
• 
how closely Holcim, HMA and BGC currently compete in the supply of RMX in greater 
Perth, with a focus on BGC’s RMX plants at Bassendean, Canning Vale and Kwinana, 
and 
• 
whether Adbri’s acquisition of BGC Quarries, BGC Asphalt or the transport operations 
(which will service the BGC Quarries and Asphalt business units, as well as the RMX 
sites acquired by Adbri) raises competition concerns, particularly in the supply of asphalt 
or RMX.   
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
6 
 
Attachment B – Questions for market participants 
If you have not already done so in an earlier submission: 
1. Provide a brief description of your business or organisation. 
2. Outline the reasons for your interest in the Amended Proposed Acquisition, including any 
commercial relationship(s) with Cement Australia, Holcim, HMA, Adbri and/or BGC. This 
will help us better understand your views. 
Areas of overlap & vertical relationships 
The ACCC understands that in Western Australia, Holcim, HMA and BGC overlap in the 
supply of aggregates and RMX, and BGC and Adbri overlap in the supply of cement.  
Cement Australia, Holcim and HMA do not currently supply cement or asphalt in Western 
Australia (except for the cement that Cement Australia acquires and resupplies to Holcim 
and HMA), and Adbri does not currently supply aggregates, asphalt or RMX in Western 
Australia. 
The ACCC notes that: 
• cement is a key input into the production of RMX, and 
• aggregates are a key input into the production of RMX and asphalt.  
If relevant, please provide any documents and/or data to evidence your submissions. 
Cement 
3. How closely do Adbri and BGC currently compete to provide cement in greater Perth, 
taking into account factors such as: 
a)  price, including specials, discounts and promotions 
b)  quality and range of goods, service quality 
c)  customer type 
d)  geographic location, and 
e)  reputation. 
4. If the Amended Proposed Acquisition were to proceed, explain whether you consider 
Cement Australia and/or Adbri would each have the ability and/or incentive to reduce 
supply of, or increase prices of, cement to third-party RMX suppliers. Please explain the 
basis for your view, including: 
a)  your current experience in obtaining cement from Adbri compared to BGC, noting that 
BGC is currently engaged in the supply of RMX and Adbri is not 
b)  your experience in dealing with suppliers of cement that are vertically integrated (or 
have other forms of vertical relationships with RMX suppliers in other markets, if any, 
and 
c)  any documents and data which support your view. 


 
 
 
7 
 
5. Describe the extent to which products such as fly ash and slag are alternatives for 
cement supplied by Adbri and BGC in Western Australia. In your response, consider:  
a)  price 
b)  quality 
c)  product range, and 
d)  geographic location of relevant plants and transit time.  
RMX 
6. In relation to RMX plants, please provide the following information: 
a)  How closely do HMA and/or Holcim currently compete with each other? 
b)  How closely will HMA and/or Holcim’s RMX plants in or near Bassendean, Canning 
Vale and Kwinana compete with BGC’s RMX plants at Bassendean, Canning Vale 
and Kwinana, taking into account factors such as: 
i) price, including specials, discounts and promotions 
ii) quality and range of goods, service quality 
iii) customer type 
iv) geographic location, and 
v) reputation. 
c)  List and describe the main competitors of BGC’s RMX plants at each of Bassendean, 
Canning Vale and Kwinana.  
7. For RMX customers, what options do you consider alternatives to BGC’s RMX plants at 
each of Bassendean, Canning Vale and Kwinana? Please explain which alternatives 
may be more or less viable as a result of delivery time or distance, or any other factors 
including those listed at question 7. 
8. In relation to the RMX plants to be acquired by Adbri (i.e. Hazelmere, Armadale, Quinns 
Rock, Wangara, Mandurah and Moora and two mobile concrete plants currently located 
at Hazelmere and Rottnest Island) as a part of the Amended Proposed Acquisition, 
explain whether you consider Adbri would have a sufficient RMX network to be able to 
produce and deliver RMX across greater Perth, and compete with existing RMX 
suppliers including Holcim and HMA. 
Aggregates & asphalt 
9. As a part of the Amended Proposed Acquisition, Adbri will also acquire: 
a)  BGC Quarries  
b)  BGC Asphalt, and 
c)  Transport operations which service the BGC Quarries and Asphalt business units and 
the six RMX sites outlined above.   


 
 
 
8 
 
Explain whether you have any comments or concerns arising out of Adbri’s acquisition of 
these assets. 
Other information or competition issues 
10. Provide any additional information or comments that you consider relevant to the 
ACCC’s consideration of the Amended Proposed Acquisition. 
 
 


 
 
 
9 
 
Attachment C – Map of RMX sites in Greater Perth 
 
Notes: 
• 
Legend denotes the owner or long-term lessee of the RMX plant post-acquisition 
• 
Plant location information has been supplied by merger parties or obtained from 
publicly available sources 
• 
Map does not include mobile batching plants 
• 
BGC Moora (approx. 170km north of Perth by road) is not depicted, but is proposed 
to be acquired by Adbri 
 
Inset A – Far north 
Inset B – Central north 
Inset C – Central east 
Inset C – Central south 
Inset D – Far south 


 
 
 
10 
 
Inset A – Far north 
 
 


 
 
 
11 
 
Inset B – Central north 
 
MCM 


 
 
 
12 
 
Inset C – Central east 
 
MCM 


 
 
 
13 
 
Inset D – Central south 
 
 


 
 
 
14 
 
Inset E – Far south 
 
 
