 
1 
 
 
Public Competition Assessment 
13 January 2015 
Expedia, Inc – proposed acquisition of Wotif.com Holdings 
Limited 
Introduction 
1. 
On 2 October 2014, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission 
(ACCC) announced its decision not to oppose the proposed acquisition by 
Expedia, Inc. (Expedia) of Wotif.com Holdings (Wotif) (proposed acquisition). 
2. 
The ACCC decided that the proposed acquisition was unlikely to have the effect 
of substantially lessening competition in a market in contravention of section 50 
of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the Act). 
3. 
The ACCC made its decision on the basis of the information provided by the 
parties to the acquisition (the parties) and information arising from its market 
inquiries. This Public Competition Assessment outlines (subject to confidentiality 
considerations) the basis on which the ACCC has reached its decision. 
Public Competition Assessments 
4. 
To provide an enhanced level of transparency in its decision making process, the 
ACCC issues a Public Competition Assessment where: 
 
an acquisition is opposed; 
 
an acquisition is subject to enforceable undertakings; 
 
the parties to the acquisition seek such disclosure; or 
 
an acquisition is not opposed but raises important issues that the ACCC 
considers should be made public. 
5. 
This Public Competition Assessment has been issued because the proposed 
acquisition was not opposed by the ACCC but raises some important issues that 
the ACCC considers should be made public. 
6. 
By issuing Public Competition Assessments, the ACCC aims to provide the 
public with a better understanding of the ACCC's analysis of various markets and 
the associated competition issues. Public Competition Assessments can also 
alert the public to circumstances where the ACCC’s assessment of the 
competition conditions in particular markets is changing, or is likely to change. 


 
2 
 
7. 
Each Public Competition Assessment is specific to the particular transaction 
under review by the ACCC. While some transaction proposals may involve the 
same or related markets, it should not be assumed that the analysis outlined in 
one Public Competition Assessment will be conclusive of the ACCC’s view in 
respect of other transaction proposals, as each matter will be considered on a 
case-by-case basis. 
8. 
Public Competition Assessments outline the ACCC’s principal reasons for 
forming views on a proposed acquisition. As such, Public Competition 
Assessments may not definitively identify and explain all issues that the ACCC 
considers arise from a proposed acquisition. Further, the ACCC’s decisions 
generally involve consideration of confidential information provided by the parties 
and market participants. In order to maintain confidentiality, Public Competition 
Assessments do not contain any confidential information nor identify its sources. 
The parties 
The acquirer: Expedia 
9. 
Expedia is a global online travel agency (OTA) that offers consumers the ability 
to book accommodation, flights, vacation packages, car rentals, cruises and 
other travel services. Retail travel products can be booked through Expedia both 
online and via telephone. Expedia is also a relatively small supplier of corporate 
travel management services through its Egencia business. 
10. 
Expedia’s online platforms provide an information service enabling consumers to 
compare the prices and attributes of accommodation offered by a large number 
of accommodation providers in Australia and abroad. 
11. 
Expedia’s portfolio of brands include: 
 
Expedia.com – a full service OTA with localised sites in 31 countries 
 
Hotels.com – an accommodation specialist with sites in more than 60 
countries 
 
Hotwire.com – a travel discount company with sites in 12 countries 
throughout North America, Europe and Asia 
 
Egencia – a corporate travel management company 
 
Venere.com – an online accommodation reservation specialist in Europe; 
and 
 
a majority shareholding in trivago – an online accommodation metasearch 
company with sites in 45 countries. 
The target: Wotif 
12. 
Wotif is an ASX-listed and Australian-based OTA that is predominantly active in 
relation to the supply of online accommodation booking services. These services 
represent approximately 87 per cent of its revenue.1 Wotif is also active in the 
provision of booking services for flights, travel packages and other travel 
products.  
13. 
Wotif’s main brands include Wotif.com, lastminute.com.au, travel.com.au, Asia 
Web Direct, LateStays.com, Go Do and Arnold Travel Technology. 
                                                 
1 Wotif.com Holdings Limited 2014 Annual Report, page 18. 


 
3 
 
Other industry participants  
The Priceline Group 
14. 
The Priceline Group provides online accommodation, flights and related travel 
services through a number of brands globally. It has invested heavily in 
marketing and has a strong presence in Australia. Its major OTA brands include 
Booking.com, the most visited OTA website in Australia,2 and Agoda. The 
Priceline Group also owns Kayak, a travel metasearch website and mobile 
application. 
Orbitz Worldwide 
15. 
Orbitz Worldwide is a global OTA with an Australian presence in online 
accommodation bookings through its HotelClub.com brand. 
Webjet 
16. 
Webjet is an Australian-based OTA that has historically focused on flight sales, 
but has expanded its accommodation business with the acquisition of Zuji in 
2013. Zuji is an OTA which offers flights, accommodation, packages and car 
hire. 
Hooroo 
17. 
Hooroo is part of the Qantas Group and offers online accommodation bookings 
through the Qantas, Jetstar and Hooroo websites. 
Flight Centre 
18. 
Flight Centre is primarily a ‘bricks and mortar’ travel agent with retail outlets 
across Australia, offering accommodation bookings (as well as other travel 
related services) to consumers in-store and over the phone. Flight Centre also 
offers online accommodation bookings through its OTA business Quickbeds. 
Helloworld 
19. 
Helloworld (formerly Jetset Travelworld/Stella Travel) is another bricks and 
mortar travel agent chain, which has also launched an online booking arm. In 
2013, Helloworld announced an alliance with Orbitz Worldwide, giving it access 
to Orbitz Worldwide’s global technology platform to power its new OTA, 
helloworld.com.au. 
STA Travel 
20. 
STA Travel is a global travel agency brand owned by Zurich-based Diethelm 
Keller Ltd. In Australia it started life on university campuses as ‘Student Travel 
Australia’. It provides accommodation booking services through both its bricks 
and mortar stores and online. 
                                                 
2 http://www.traveltrends.biz/ttn555-global-sites-grow-fastest-as-locals-struggle-to-stay-with-the-pace-
2014-hitwise-hottest-100-reveals/   


 
4 
 
Metasearch websites 
21. 
Metasearch sites aggregate online listings of travel products from a range of 
OTAs and other sites and provide reviews and price comparisons for those 
products. A customer is usually redirected to an OTA or hotel website after 
clicking on a link to book the product.  
22. 
Metasearch sites which focus on accommodation listings and are popular in 
Australia include: 
 
TripAdvisor, a Nasdaq-listed company which is one of the largest 
accommodation metasearch websites globally and within Australia 
 
trivago, which is majority owned by Expedia, and  
 
HotelsCombined. 
23. 
Metasearch websites are discussed in further detail from paragraph 39. 
Other 
24. 
There are a range of companies which provide online distribution/booking 
services primarily for non-hotel accommodation in Australia and overseas, 
including AirBnB, Stayz and Hostelworld. 
The proposed acquisition 
25. 
Expedia proposed to acquire 100 per cent of the issued shares in Wotif by way 
of a scheme of arrangement.  
Review timeline 
26. 
The following table outlines the timeline of key events in this matter. 
16 July 2014 
ACCC commenced review under the Merger Process Guidelines. 
6 August 2014 
Closing date for submissions from interested parties. 
15 August 2014 
ACCC requested further information from Expedia. 
18 August 2014 
ACCC requested further information from Wotif. 
4 September 2014 
ACCC published a Statement of Issues outlining preliminary 
competition concerns. 
17 September 2014 
Closing date for submissions relating to Statement of Issues. 
2 October 2014 
ACCC announced it would not oppose the proposed acquisition. 
Market inquiries 
27. 
The ACCC conducted market inquiries with a range of industry participants and 
interested parties, including hotel operators, other accommodation providers, 
airlines and competing OTAs. The ACCC also liaised with the New Zealand 


 
5 
 
Commerce Commission which was conducting a merger review of the 
acquisition in New Zealand at the same time as the ACCC’s review.   
Statement of Issues  
28. 
The ACCC published a Statement of Issues on 4 September 2014. In the 
Statement of Issues the ACCC expressed the preliminary view that the proposed 
acquisition may raise competition concerns in the market for the online 
distribution/booking of Australian accommodation. In particular, the ACCC 
expressed concern that the proposed acquisition may result in the following 
effects:  
 
an increase in the commission rates charged by Expedia to Australian 
accommodation providers; 
 
a reduction in the amount of promotional opportunities offered by OTAs to 
Australian accommodation providers.   
29. 
The ACCC also expressed the preliminary view that the proposed acquisition 
was unlikely to raise competition concerns in the following related markets: 
 
the consumer side of the two-sided market for the online 
distribution/booking of Australian accommodation;3  
 
the market for online distribution/booking of air travel (which is also a two-
sided market); 
 
markets for the distribution/booking of other travel products, including 
holiday packages, car hire and cruises (which are also two-sided markets). 
Areas of overlap 
30. 
The activities of Expedia and Wotif overlap in the areas of online booking 
services for accommodation, flights, holiday packages, car hire, cruises and 
other travel products.  Of these different products, the primary area of overlap 
that the ACCC focused on was online booking services for Australian 
accommodation. 
Future with and without the proposed acquisition  
31. 
In assessing a proposed acquisition pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC 
considers the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future competitive 
environment if the acquisition proceeds (the “with” position) to the likely future 
competitive environment if the acquisition does not proceed (the “without” 
position) to determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to substantially 
lessen competition in any relevant market. 
32. 
The ACCC’s view is that absent the proposed acquisition (the “without” position), 
Wotif is likely to continue to operate as an independent competitor in the relevant 
markets.  
Industry background 
33. 
There are a number of media platforms through which accommodation is 
distributed both online and offline, with the primary ones being: 
                                                 
3 A two-sided market is defined at paragraph 40. 


 
6 
 
 
Online travel agencies – OTAs sell one or multiple travel tourism 
products direct to consumers, allowing consumers to search, compare and 
book accommodation via their websites (e.g. Expedia.com, Wotif.com). 
 
Directly via accommodation providers – many accommodation 
providers have their own websites where consumers can book rooms 
directly. Consumers may also book directly with the provider by phone, 
email or as a “walk-in”. 
 
Bricks and mortar travel agencies – many travel agents have a physical 
retail presence that involves consumers meeting directly with the travel 
agent. Some bricks and mortar agencies also have an online presence.  
 
Corporate travel booking services – companies such as Corporate 
Travel Management and Carlson Wagonlit supply accommodation to 
organisations. 
 
Destination websites – some local tourism organisations operate 
websites which offer accommodation bookings, for example Tourism 
Noosa. 
34. 
There has been significant growth in online travel bookings in recent years and 
this trend is expected to continue, with increases in the usage of mobile devices 
and tablets for bookings driving this growth. 
35. 
OTAs generally operate by two models: 
 
Merchant model – the OTA acts as a wholesaler, selling inventory at a 
rate comprising the hotel’s net rate and the OTA’s commission fee. Hotels 
are paid by the OTA after the consumer has concluded their stay. OTAs 
that use the merchant model include Expedia and Orbitz. 
 
Retail model – the consumer books through an OTA and pays the hotel 
directly. The hotel will then pay the OTA a commission on the booking. 
This model is also referred to as the published model. Expedia and Orbitz 
also operate this model in addition to Booking.com. 
36. 
Wotif operates a model similar to the merchant model except that the consumer 
pays Wotif an additional booking fee of $5.50 at the time of booking. 
37. 
OTAs generally charge a base commission rate to accommodation providers, 
and then charge a higher commission rate to those accommodation providers 
that wish to appear on the front page of the OTA’s unrefined/unfiltered search 
results. An exception to this is Wotif, which lists accommodation providers 
alphabetically by star rating. Consumers are able to refine/filter results on OTA 
sites by price, customer reviews, specific locations or features of the room and/or 
hotel. 
38. 
OTAs attract consumers to their websites by advertising through both online 
(e.g. Google AdWords), and offline media (e.g. TV and print media) in addition to 
providing an attractive and functional website with a broad range of 
accommodation inventory. The ACCC understands that the primary form of 
competition between OTAs centres on attracting consumers to their websites, 
which is in part dependent on OTAs being able to offer a broad range of 
accommodation inventory.  
Metasearch websites 
39. 
Metasearch sites such as TripAdvisor allow consumers to compare a range of 
accommodation options (based on ratings, price, availability, location etc.) and 


 
7 
 
then provide booking options for each hotel (unless the hotel has chosen not to 
make bookings available). TripAdvisor’s TripConnect function allows OTAs (and 
the hotel itself) to bid against each other to appear in the booking options for a 
particular hotel. The value of the bids determines the ranking of each booking 
option, and the OTA or hotel is charged if a consumer clicks on their link. 
40. 
TripAdvisor also offers accommodation providers a ‘Business Listings’ product.  
This is a subscription service (rather than a cost-per-click product) which allows 
the accommodation provider to display its direct contact details (including a link 
to its own website) on the TripAdvisor page for its property. An accommodation 
provider can also post special offers on its TripAdvisor page. However, the 
display of the Business Listings contact and special offer information is smaller 
and less prominent than the booking buttons provided by the TripConnect 
function. 
Market definition 
41. 
The ACCC assessed the impact of the proposed acquisition in the context of the 
following online markets for the distribution/booking of: 
i. 
Australian accommodation. This is a two-sided market where there are 
two groups of customers: 
 
accommodation providers who wish to attract consumers to their 
properties; and 
 
consumers who wish to book accommodation. 
ii. 
air travel (which is also a two-sided market); and 
iii. 
other travel products, including packages, car hire and cruises (which are 
also two-sided markets). 
42. 
The relevant markets identified above are consistent with those outlined in the 
Statement of Issues. The consumer side of market (i), and the markets 
comprising (ii) and (iii) were identified in the Statement of Issues as markets 
where the proposed acquisition was unlikely to raise concerns. Market inquiries 
following the Statement of Issues did not reveal any further information to 
change the ACCC’s views in relation to these markets and as such these are not 
considered further. This Public Competition Assessment therefore only analyses 
competition impacts in the market for the online distribution/booking of Australian 
accommodation, focussing on the impact on Australian accommodation 
providers. 
Market for online distribution/booking of Australian 
accommodation 
Product dimension of the market 
43. 
The market for the online distribution/booking of Australian accommodation is a 
two-sided market where positive network effects exist.4 The importance of an 
OTA to an accommodation provider is directly related to the volume of traffic that 
an OTA generates through its access to consumer ‘eyeballs’. Therefore, most 
                                                 
4 That is, an increase in the number of accommodation providers listing on OTAs increases the value of 
the OTA to consumers who want to book accommodation, therefore attracting more consumers to the 
OTA, and vice versa. 


 
8 
 
fees tend to be levied on accommodation providers rather than consumers 
because their demand is likely to be less elastic than that of consumers, who are 
readily able to switch between OTAs and access similar accommodation. It is the 
eyeballs that OTAs generate through their large investment in advertising and 
promotion (a sunk cost incurred by OTAs) that are of value to accommodation 
providers, therefore the ACCC’s analysis has focussed on this side of the 
market.     
Accommodation versus other travel products 
44. 
The ACCC analysed whether the distribution of travel products, including hotels, 
flights, car rental, cruises, etc. comprise separate distribution markets for each 
travel product or a single market for the distribution of travel products. 
45. 
From the consumer perspective, different travel products such as hotel rooms 
and flights are mainly complements rather than substitutes. Industry participants 
indicated that a large proportion of consumers purchase travel products on a 
standalone basis through OTAs, although there has been an increase in the 
number of consumers purchasing travel products as a package (e.g. flight and 
hotel packages), particularly by consumers travelling overseas. On the supplier 
side, accommodation providers need to access distribution services which attract 
consumers to book accommodation and are unlikely to have the ability to readily 
commence supplying other travel products (e.g. flights or cruises) even if given 
an incentive to do so.  
46. 
Many OTAs offer booking services for travel products other than 
accommodation, such as airline flights and leisure cruises. Further, some 
providers offering booking services for other travel products have recently 
started offering booking services for accommodation. However, given the costs 
associated with establishing a sufficient pool of accommodation inventory5 and 
attracting a sufficient consumer audience,6 the ACCC considered that switching 
from offering online distribution/booking of other travel products to 
accommodation is not likely to be sufficiently quick and free of investment for 
accommodation listings to be considered a supply-side substitute for other travel 
product listings. 
47. 
On balance, the ACCC considered it appropriate to define a product market for 
distribution/booking of Australian accommodation, taking into account the 
primary overlap between the merger parties, the complementary nature of other 
travel products from a consumer perspective and the inability of most 
accommodation providers to readily switch between supplying different travel 
products. Providers of booking services for other travel products are considered 
potential entrants into this market. 
Online distribution versus bricks and mortar stores 
48. 
As identified in the Statement of Issues, there is a range of ways in which 
accommodation providers distribute and consumers book accommodation. The 
                                                 
5 As an alternative to contracting directly with accommodation providers, some OTAs acquire inventory 
from other OTAs (e.g. from Expedia through its Expedia Affiliate Network). However, this reduces the 
margin available to the re-selling OTA and may also impact its ability to compete by offering innovative 
offers to consumers. 
6 The ACCC notes that airlines and their affiliates (e.g. Hooroo) may be well placed to sell accommodation 
by selling it in conjunction with flights. On the other hand, not all accommodation bookings are associated 
with flights and many consumers who have booked flights are still likely to search separately for their 
accommodation to ensure they obtain the best deal. 


 
9 
 
key consideration for an accommodation provider is typically to ensure as wide a 
distribution of their accommodation inventory as possible to minimise the number 
of empty rooms. 
49. 
The ACCC defined a market for the distribution/booking of Australian 
accommodation through the online channel only, as accommodation providers 
are unlikely to switch enough inventory from online channels to bricks and mortar 
travel agents to make a small but significant increase in online distribution costs 
(e.g. an increase in commission rates charged by OTAs) unprofitable. Online 
channels capture unique consumer eyeballs that are not captured through the 
bricks and mortar channel as, for a significant proportion of consumers, bricks 
and mortar travel agents are not a close substitute for OTAs. These consumers 
have a preference for comparing a wide range of accommodation providers, 
accessing reviews from fellow travellers to inform their decision and favour the 
convenience of booking online without the need to visit a store or speak to a 
customer service person.  
50. 
The ACCC also found that OTAs were not a close substitute for a significant 
proportion of consumers that frequent bricks and mortar travel agents. These 
consumers often have a preference for drawing on the advice and expertise 
offered by sales agents and favour the ability to book personalised holiday 
packages, particularly when travelling overseas.  
51. 
Accordingly, the ACCC considered it appropriate to consider the competitive 
effects of the proposed acquisition with reference to a market for 
distribution/booking of accommodation that is limited to online channels, taking 
into account bricks and mortar agents only to the extent that they offer online 
booking services (for example, as Flight Centre does through 
Quickbeds.com.au). 
Other online booking channels 
52. 
The ACCC considered that the market for online distribution/booking of 
Australian accommodation includes distribution and booking through a range of 
channels including OTAs, directly through accommodation providers’ own 
websites (e.g. Hilton.com) and destination websites (e.g. surfersparadise.com).  
53. 
Most hotels offer consumers the option of booking accommodation through the 
hotel’s own website. In many instances, a link to a hotel’s website is provided in 
the search results on a metasearch site.  
54. 
Market inquiries indicated that hotels also implement strategies to funnel 
consumers to their direct channel and avoid paying commission fees to OTAs. 
For example, hotels can reduce the volume of inventory made available to OTAs 
and make this volume available to be booked directly through their own website 
instead.  
55. 
Therefore, the ACCC considered that Expedia and Wotif compete not only with 
other OTAs, but with other forms of online distribution including the 
accommodation providers’ own websites and destination websites. The 
proportion of bookings made through each channel varies between 
accommodation providers, with OTAs generating one third to over half of the 
bookings received by an accommodation provider. The extent to which these 
channels constrain OTAs is discussed further in the competition assessment. 
56. 
The ACCC also considered the role of metasearch sites. The ACCC found that 
metasearch sites increasingly compete with OTAs for consumer eyeballs. 
Metasearch websites do not currently provide a booking function in their own 


 
10 
 
right, but connect consumers to an OTA or other site to complete a booking. 
Accordingly, the ACCC did not consider metasearch sites to be in the same 
market as OTAs. However, as discussed further below, the ACCC considered 
metasearch sites to be important to the competitive dynamic in the market for 
online distribution/booking of Australian accommodation as they provide an 
expanding avenue for accommodation providers to bypass OTAs and transact 
directly with consumers. 
Geographic scope of the market  
57. 
The ACCC defined the geographic scope of the market to be the 
distribution/booking of Australian accommodation, encompassing bookings 
made by Australian residents and inbound bookings from overseas residents. 
Competition Assessment  
58. 
The ACCC’s preliminary concerns outlined in the Statement of Issues were that 
the proposed acquisition may have the potential to substantially lessen 
competition in the market for online distribution/booking of Australian 
accommodation and may result in an increase in commission rates charged by 
OTAs to accommodation providers. 
Competitive significance of Wotif 
59. 
A significant number of industry participants, particularly smaller accommodation 
providers, identified Wotif as a vigorous and effective competitor for the 
distribution/booking of Australian accommodation, having regard to the volume 
of bookings generated by Wotif (for some accommodation providers more than 
half of all bookings received via OTAs are from Wotif) and its lower rates of 
commission compared to the other two major OTAs in Australia, Expedia and 
Booking.com.  
60. 
Other OTAs, including Orbitz Worldwide, Webjet, Quickbeds, Hooroo and 
Helloworld have significantly smaller shares of bookings than the top three and 
were not generally identified by accommodation providers as a significant source 
of bookings.  
61. 
Wotif’s competitive strength appears to be based primarily on: 
 
its brand awareness: Wotif was the first major accommodation OTA in 
Australia and continues to enjoy strong brand recognition in Australia; 
 
its wide range of inventory: Wotif has more Australian hotels listed than 
any other OTA. 
62. 
Industry participants noted that the base commission charged by Expedia and 
Booking.com in Australia is less than they charge in other parts of the world, and 
considered that it was the presence of Wotif that constrained Expedia and 
Booking.com from increasing commissions. Some industry participants raised 
concerns that the acquisition of Wotif would result in Expedia increasing 
commission rates to accommodation providers.  
63. 
Although Wotif is one of the three major competitors in the market and an 
important source of bookings for many accommodation providers, the ACCC’s 
inquiries indicate that it has lost its position as the leading OTA in the Australian 
market. Some market participants questioned its ability to remain competitive 


 
11 
 
with Expedia, Booking.com, newer OTAs and new business models in the future 
without the acquisition. 
64. 
Wotif has experienced a decline in its market share of Australian accommodation 
bookings since 2011, a period that has seen Booking.com experience significant 
growth. This decline is attributed to the lack of ongoing investment in Wotif’s 
online platform, its booking fee levied to consumers (which puts it at a 
competitive disadvantage to its competitors who do not charge a booking fee) 
and its failure to match the advertising spend of its key competitors, especially 
for key search terms on Google AdWords.  
65. 
Booking.com has experienced very strong growth in Australia, particularly over 
the past two years. Booking.com is now, by most measures, the largest OTA in 
Australia and has increased its hotel inventory to a level that gives it comparable 
(although still lower) coverage to Wotif. The ACCC understands that 
Booking.com is continuing to sign more accommodation providers in regional 
areas, which has traditionally been Wotif’s competitive strength.   
66. 
The ACCC understands that Booking.com has leveraged its recognition among 
Australian consumers who travel overseas to build its profile for domestic 
accommodation bookings by Australian consumers. The ACCC notes that other 
major overseas OTAs may be in a similar position to expand their presence in 
the Australian market as Booking.com did, particularly if there were a price 
incentive post-acquisition. 
67. 
As a result of Wotif’s declining market share, many industry participants 
considered that without the acquisition Wotif would need to remove its booking 
fee, invest in modernising its booking platform and increase its advertising spend 
to counteract the continued expansion of Booking.com. Although Wotif remains a 
profitable business, its performance in terms of accommodation bookings has 
declined in recent years. For example, The Wotif Group’s number of room nights 
booked in Australia and New Zealand decreased by 9.4% in 2013-147, which 
Wotif considers is due to it being out-spent on advertising by its competitors.  
68. 
The ACCC notes that Wotif has previously increased its commission rate to 
accommodation providers from 10% to 11% in 2013 and to 12% in 2014. Many 
industry participants considered that, given the investment Wotif would need to 
make to arrest its declining performance, it was likely that Wotif would further 
increase its commission rates to accommodation providers at some point in the 
near future without the acquisition. 
69. 
The ACCC notes that some industry participants raised concerns that the growth 
of Booking.com and the declining performance of Wotif would result in 
Booking.com becoming the dominant player in the market in the foreseeable 
future. These industry participants considered that the proposed acquisition may 
create a stronger competitor to Booking.com compared to the current market 
structure.  
Dynamic nature of online accommodation booking industry 
70. 
As noted in the Statement of Issues, there has been a substantial shift from 
bricks and mortar travel agents to online sales channels for the distribution and 
sale of accommodation. 
                                                 
7 Wotif, FY14 Results – Presentation Materials, http://www.wotifgroup.com/wp-
content/uploads/2014/08/ASX294-12Aug14-Presentation-Materials.pdf 


 
12 
 
71. 
Market inquiries also confirmed that within the online market itself, the methods 
by which accommodation booking options are offered to consumers have 
diversified. Evolution in the market is illustrated by the emergence of new OTAs, 
metasearch/aggregator websites (such as TripAdvisor and Google Hotel Finder), 
new business models such as AirBnB (an online distribution/booking platform 
which facilitates the letting of private accommodation, including individual rooms 
in private houses), and web applications which respond to consumers’ 
increasing use of mobile devices to make bookings.  
72. 
Metasearch websites such as TripAdvisor originally provided the opportunity for 
travellers to read and review travel-related content. However, they have since 
introduced features such as price comparisons for accommodation and links to 
book directly with an accommodation provider that have seen the functionality 
much more closely resemble that of an OTA. Such websites capture consumers’ 
preferences for combining independent and comprehensive information about 
accommodation options and easy booking processes. As detailed below, these 
websites provide a substantial platform for OTAs and hotels to promote their 
offerings and are likely to play an increasingly important role in the distribution of 
accommodation.  
73. 
Industry participants also considered that metasearch websites and OTAs are 
continually testing and introducing new services and products in order to attract 
consumers and accommodation owners to their websites. Recent examples 
include TripAdvisor’s Instant Bookings (a mobile application which allows the 
consumer to complete a booking without leaving the TripAdvisor platform)8 and 
Business Listings products, Google Hotel Finder (a map-based metasearch 
product), and TripAdvisor’s FlipKey, a website which specialises in the 
distribution of apartment/home rentals incorporating TripAdvisor reviews. 
74. 
There has also been substantial change within the OTA industry. Until recently in 
Australia, Wotif, and to a lesser extent Expedia, were market leaders in terms of 
accommodation booked through OTAs. As outlined at paragraphs 63-65, this 
has changed rapidly with the entry and expansion of Priceline Group through its 
Booking.com and Agoda websites.  
75. 
In addition, in recent years a number of ‘channel managers’ have developed 
systems to facilitate connections between their booking systems and consumer-
focused websites such as OTAs and TripAdvisor. Channel manager systems, 
such as that offered by SiteMinder, allow accommodation providers to manage 
the distribution of their inventory across a range of distribution channels, 
including integration with the systems of leading OTAs and aggregator sites.9 
76. 
These developments indicate that there have been many innovative commercial 
responses to consumer demand for better online booking facilities, including, for 
example: 
 
combining the ability to personally research travel options and easily make 
a booking; and 
 
the ability to make bookings on a mobile or last-minute basis while the 
consumer is travelling.  
                                                 
8 The actual transaction service is still provided by an OTA, but the OTA’s role is much less prominent 
compared to a standard booking than originates with TripAdvisor. 
9 For example, Site Minder’s Channel Manager product allows a hotel to list all available rooms on a 
range of booking sites at the one time and the number of available rooms is automatically reduced across 
all those sites when a booking is made from any site. 


 
13 
 
77. 
The ACCC considered that the pace and breadth of the introduction of new 
methods for the online distribution of accommodation and the fact that new 
products continue to be developed, strongly suggests that it is a dynamically 
competitive market. The ACCC’s market inquiries did not reveal any information 
to suggest that the proposed acquisition would be likely to impede the degree of 
dynamic change in the market.  
Competition from other online distribution channels 
78. 
The ACCC considers that developments such as those outlined above have 
expanded the range of options for hotels to distribute their accommodation 
inventory, either through booking intermediaries (such as OTAs) or their own 
websites.  
79. 
On the flip-side of this two sided market, the dynamic nature of competition has 
also manifested in the emergence of a large range of options by which 
consumers can and do book accommodation online. Market inquiries indicated 
that consumers research their options through several websites before ultimately 
making a booking. The majority of consumers commence their accommodation 
research with a Google search of generic terms largely based on a location (for 
example “Melbourne hotels”), then browse metasearch websites such as 
TripAdvisor, HotelsCombined and Google Hotel Finder, which display a range of 
booking options offered by multiple OTAs and accommodation providers.  
Role of Metasearch websites 
80. 
The ACCC found that metasearch websites, particularly TripAdvisor and Google 
Hotel Finder, assist hotels to bypass OTAs and provide a meaningful platform for 
new entry or expansion by OTAs. For example, independent accommodation 
providers, through the subscription-based TripAdvisor Business Listings service, 
can list their property on TripAdvisor, provide contact information (including a link 
to the provider’s website) and offer specials (e.g. free breakfast) to consumers. 
An accommodation provider with a TripAdvisor Business Listing also has the 
option to participate in the TripConnect service. The TripConnect service allows 
independent accommodation providers to compete against OTAs for placement 
on the price comparison booking panel on TripAdvisor’s website, a function 
introduced in 2013. Prior to this, only OTAs and large hotel franchises were able 
to bid for placement in the booking panel on TripAdvisor’s website.    
81. 
The ACCC considers that new developments by metasearch sites are increasing 
the ability of accommodation providers to reduce their reliance on the major 
OTAs, as well as obtain a greater proportion of bookings directly through their 
own websites. 
82. 
The growth in the popularity of metasearch websites has caused a shift of 
consumers from OTAs to these websites as their first point in searching for 
accommodation. This appears to have two effects: 
i. 
it provides a platform for the entry and expansion of lesser known OTAs by 
making it possible for them to obtain bookings (via a metasearch site); and 
ii. 
hotels are more able to reduce their reliance on particular OTAs to access 
a potential customer base, whether through smaller OTAs or the ability to 
promote direct bookings.   


 
14 
 
83. 
Market inquiries indicate that metasearch websites, in particular TripAdvisor and 
Google Hotel Finder, pose a significant competitive threat to OTAs because 
these websites:  
 
display a larger number of hotels than any one OTA, have the ability to 
display the best available price for rooms to consumers, and increasingly 
have similar booking functionality to an OTA; and 
 
increasingly facilitate direct transactions between hotels and consumers 
with the introduction of new features (such as TripAdvisor’s instant booking 
function).  
84. 
The ACCC considers that ongoing growth in the popularity of metasearch 
websites will likely erode any temporary market power currently enjoyed by 
particular OTAs. 
Direct bookings 
85. 
As noted in the Statement of Issues, accommodation providers can engage in 
strategies to increase the volume of consumers booking directly through their 
websites in order to minimise or avoid paying commissions to OTAs. These 
strategies include the following: 
 
taking positive steps to attract more consumers to their own websites, e.g. 
by offering discounts, other bonuses or loyalty schemes; and 
 
withholding their inventory from OTAs, i.e. making only a limited number or 
type of rooms available via OTAs as opposed to their own websites. 
86. 
Market inquiries indicated that the extent to which these strategies are effective 
can be influenced by factors including: 
 
the price and volume parity requirements that most OTAs include in their 
contractual arrangements with accommodation providers; 
 
difficulties faced by accommodation providers in attracting consumers to 
their own websites, due to the complexity and expense of promoting them 
(see further below).  This is more likely to be an issue for smaller 
accommodation providers without a strong brand name; and 
 
the risk of lost sales (and therefore empty rooms) if accommodation 
providers miscalculate the number of rooms to withhold from OTAs. 
87. 
Notwithstanding these issues, the ACCC’s post-SOI market inquiries indicated 
that hotels do exercise a flexible approach in their dealings with OTAs. For 
instance: 
 
Many accommodation providers regularly offer accommodation promotions 
and sales by offering inventory which is differentiated from the rooms sold 
through OTAs; and 
 
There is evidence that accommodation providers of various sizes in 
overseas markets are increasingly using products such as TripAdvisor’s 
Instant Bookings and Business Listings, on the basis that they are a cost-
effective means of generating bookings relative to commissions paid to 
OTAs. 


 
15 
 
Barriers to entry and expansion 
88. 
The ACCC’s review indicated that a new OTA would be able to access a 
sufficient volume of hotel inventory to enter the market as accommodation 
providers generally have an incentive to distribute their inventory across a wide 
range of platforms to access as many potential consumers as possible. This is 
facilitated by channel manager applications (such as SiteMinder’s) which allow a 
hotel to list a particular room on multiple OTAs at the same time. However, as 
noted above, a new OTA would face significant costs in engaging a sufficient 
number of staff to approach, enter contracts and maintain relationships with 
those accommodation providers. 
89. 
The ACCC’s review also indicated that a new OTA would incur significant sunk 
costs through advertising to attract a sufficient number of eyeballs to compete 
successfully in the market. While there are a number of smaller, independently-
owned OTAs in the market, some market participants suggested that the sunk 
costs involved with advertising, particularly on Google and metasearch websites 
presents a barrier to new OTAs achieving a sufficient scale to constrain the 
incumbents such as Expedia and Booking.com.  
90. 
The ACCC considered that if the industry were to remain in its current form, 
there may be significant barriers to a new entrant or existing player in the market 
expanding to an equivalent size to Wotif, Expedia or Booking.com. 
91. 
However, the ACCC considered that despite the barriers to entry, recent 
changes in the market suggest that there are significant global players who have 
the ability and incentive to overcome those barriers.10 The ACCC considered that 
competition would continue to be dynamic in the future, and this would result in 
the ongoing development of differentiated products and business models. 
Companies in adjacent markets (e.g. TripAdvisor and Google) are likely to place 
significant competitive constraint on incumbent OTAs by developing new 
products which allow either those companies or other new entrants to compete 
more vigorously with the incumbent OTAs.   
Likelihood of increased commission rates 
92. 
The key theory of harm raised in the Statement of Issues related to the potential 
for Expedia to raise commission rates to accommodation providers post-
acquisition.   
93. 
Industry participants submitted to the ACCC that in the absence of the proposed 
acquisition, Wotif would need to remove the $5.50 booking fee it currently 
charges consumers to maintain a competitive position in the market. The ACCC 
considers that if this were to occur, it is likely that Wotif would attempt to 
increase commissions to accommodation providers in order to compensate for 
removing the consumer booking fee, bringing its pricing model into line with that 
adopted by other OTAs. Therefore, the ACCC considers that a change in Wotif’s 
pricing structure is likely with or without the acquisition.    
94. 
The ACCC also acknowledges that the removal of an independent Wotif could 
lead to Expedia and Booking.com increasing commission rates above their 
current levels.   
                                                 
10 For example, Amazon is reported to be entering the OTA market (this was not known at the time of the 
ACCC’s decision): http://www.economist.com/blogs/gulliver/2014/11/online-travel-
firms?fsrc=scn/tw/te/bl/enteramazon.  


 
16 
 
95. 
However, the ACCC considered that the dynamic nature of the market provides 
opportunities for accommodation providers to reduce their reliance on OTAs for 
the distribution of inventory and will continue to do so in the future, restricting the 
ability of OTAs to increase commissions beyond what was likely to occur absent 
the acquisition. The ACCC therefore considered that to the extent that Expedia 
and Booking.com raise commission rates post-acquisition, any such increase 
would be likely to: 
 
cause a significant proportion of accommodation providers to reduce the 
proportion of inventory they sell through OTAs, for example by 
withholding inventory from OTAs and investing more into promoting 
direct bookings through metasearch options; 
 
encourage at least some entry or expansion by other OTAs;  
 
be increasingly constrained directly by metasearch websites such as 
TripAdvisor; and 
 
accelerate the development of new products and business models which 
may further reduce accommodation providers’ reliance on OTAs.   
Conclusion 
96. 
Based on the above analysis, the ACCC concluded that the proposed acquisition 
was unlikely to substantially lessen competition in the market for the online 
distribution/booking of Australian accommodation. 
