Page 1 of 26 
 
 
Statement of Issues 
13 June 2019 
 Nutrien Ltd – proposed acquisition of Ruralco Holdings 
Limited 
Purpose  
1. 
Nutrien Ltd (Nutrien) proposes to acquire Ruralco Holdings Limited (Ruralco). 
Nutrien currently operates in Australia via its wholly-owned subsidiary Landmark 
Operations Limited (Landmark) under the Landmark brand.  
2. 
This Statement of Issues: 
 
gives the preliminary views of the Australian Competition and Consumer 
Commission (ACCC) on competition issues arising from the proposed 
acquisition 
 
identifies areas of further inquiry, and 
 
invites interested parties to submit comments and information to assist our 
assessment of the issues. 
3. 
Statements of Issues give preliminary views and do not refer to confidential 
information provided by the parties or other market participants, therefore they 
may not be a full articulation of the ACCC’s preliminary position. 
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views  
4. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is 
in section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits 
acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of 
substantially lessening competition in any market. 
5. 
The ACCC divides its preliminary views in this Statement of Issues into two 
categories, 'issues that may raise concerns' and ‘issues unlikely to raise 
concerns’. 


Nutrien Ltd – proposed acquisition of Ruralco Holdings Limited 
 
Page 2 of 26 
Issues that may raise concerns 
6. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition may substantially lessen 
competition in the supply of rural merchandise by: 
 
combining two of the three largest retail chains with a national presence 
(national retail chains),  
 
removing one of few competitors to Landmark in certain local areas where 
the parties’ stores overlap, 
 
increasing concentration at the wholesale level and reducing the number of 
supply options for independent retailers, and 
 
increasing the ability and incentive of Landmark to discriminate against 
independent stores it supplies in areas where they compete with 
Landmark’s corporate stores. 
Issues unlikely to raise concerns 
7. 
At this stage, the ACCC does not consider it likely that the proposed acquisition 
will raise significant competition issues in respect of vertical integration between 
product manufacturing and distribution in the supply of rural merchandise.  
8. 
The ACCC also does not consider that the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in the supply of wool broking, livestock agency, 
live export services, real estate agency, agricultural insurance broking or water 
broking services.  
Making a submission  
9. 
The ACCC is seeking submissions from interested parties, particularly on the 
following key issues: 
 
the importance of national retailers in driving competition in the supply of 
rural merchandise, for example in terms of price, product range, service or 
other aspects (such as innovation or finance offerings),  
 
the factors that influence farmers/producers in their choice of local rural 
merchandise retailer, such as location, price, product service and brand, 
and  
 
whether the remaining options for wholesale supply of rural merchandise to 
independent retailers (including direct from manufacturer, if applicable), will 
be sufficient to constrain Landmark post-acquisition. 
10. 
Interested parties should provide submissions by no later than 5pm on 27 June 
2019. Responses may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: 
Submission re: Landmark Ruralco. If you would like to discuss the matter with 
ACCC officers over the telephone or in person, or have any questions about this 
Statement of Issues, please contact Matthew Thomas on 03 9658 6490 or Tanya 
Jarvis on 03 9910 9440.  


Nutrien Ltd – proposed acquisition of Ruralco Holdings Limited 
 
Page 3 of 26 
11. 
The ACCC anticipates making a final decision on 15 August 2019, however, this 
timeline can change. To keep abreast of possible changes in relation to timing 
and to find relevant documents, interested parties should visit the Mergers 
Register on the ACCC's website at www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
Confidentiality of submissions 
12. 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We 
will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) 
unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation 
or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition 
and Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where possible so that you may 
have an opportunity to be heard. Therefore, if the information provided to the 
ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’  
13. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well 
as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
14. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 
Timeline  
 
Date 
Event 
22 March 2019 
ACCC commenced informal review of the proposed 
acquisition  
13 June 2019 
ACCC publication of Statement of Issues 
27 June 2019 
Deadline for submissions from interested parties in 
response to this Statement of Issues 
15 August 2019 
Anticipated date for ACCC final decision  
 
The parties  
Nutrien 
15. 
Nutrien is a company incorporated in Canada, and was formed by the merger of 
Agrium Inc. and Potash Corporation of Saskatchewan Inc. It is a global supplier 


Nutrien Ltd – proposed acquisition of Ruralco Holdings Limited 
 
Page 4 of 26 
of crop nutrients, inputs and services, and sells over 27 million tonnes of potash, 
nitrogen and phosphate annually to agricultural, industrial and feed customers 
worldwide. In 2018, Nutrien’s sales were approximately US$19.6 billion. 
Landmark    
16. 
Nutrien currently operates in Australia via its wholly-owned subsidiary Landmark, 
under the Landmark brand. The Landmark brand has existed in Australia for 
more than 150 years.  
17. 
Landmark operates in the following areas: 
 
Rural merchandise. Landmark wholesales and retails farming supplies 
and merchandise in Australia including fertiliser, agricultural chemicals, 
seed, animal health products and fencing equipment. It also offers 
agronomy services through some of its retail stores. Landmark operates 
225 rural merchandise branch stores and through its wholesale business 
also supplies approximately an additional 77 independent rural 
merchandise retailers, both branded members and unbranded.  
 
Wool broking. Landmark is a national wool broker, offering wool broking 
services throughout Australia with the exception of Tasmania. It provides a 
range of wool broking services including auctions, online sales through the 
Wooltrade platform, contracts with forward pricing through the Mercari 
platform, private buying and direct to mill arrangements.  
 
Livestock agency and live export. Landmark has agents who provide 
livestock agency services to farmers in Australia and it is also a livestock 
exporter to international markets.  
 
Other services. Landmark also provides real estate agency and 
agricultural insurance broking to farmers from its retail stores. It also has 
one water broker operating in the Goulburn Valley region.  
Ruralco  
18. 
Ruralco is an Australian ASX listed company (ASX: RHL) with a reported annual 
revenue of over $1 billion. Ruralco was formed in 2006 when Combined Rural 
Traders (CRT) and Roberts Limited merged. Ruralco has been operating in 
Australia (through predecessor organisations) for over 150 years and employs 
approximately 2,000 staff.  
19. 
Ruralco operates in the following areas: 
 
Rural supplies and merchandise. Ruralco sells farming supplies and 
merchandise in Australia including fertiliser, agricultural chemicals, seed, 
animal health products and fencing equipment through its retail stores. It 
also provides agronomy services through its 106 retail stores.1 Ruralco is 
also a wholesaler through its CRT wholesale business, currently supplying 
                                                 
 
1 Ruralco currently has 73 wholly-owned retail stores plus a further 33 retail stores that it owns in joint 
venture arrangements with third parties. 


Nutrien Ltd – proposed acquisition of Ruralco Holdings Limited 
 
Page 5 of 26 
246 rural merchandise retailers. These retailers may be either CRT or 
Town & Country (T&C) members.  
 
Wool broking. Ruralco provides wool broking services throughout 
Australia.  
 
Livestock agency and live export. Ruralco provides livestock agency 
services, including providing advice on buying and selling livestock. Ruralco 
also has a live export business, operated by the joint venture Frontier 
International, involving short-haul live export of feeder and slaughter cattle 
to South-East Asia. 
 
Other services. Ruralco also provides real estate agency, agricultural 
insurance broking, financial services and water broking services to farmers.  
The proposed transaction 
20. 
On 27 February 2019, Nutrien and Ruralco entered into a Scheme 
Implementation Deed which provides for the acquisition by Nutrien (or a wholly-
owned subsidiary of Nutrien) of 100% of the issued shares in Ruralco for cash 
consideration of $469 million pursuant to a scheme of arrangement under the 
Corporations Act 2001 (Cth) (the proposed acquisition).  
Areas of overlap  
21. 
The proposed acquisition would combine two of only three large national chain 
retailers of rural merchandise in Australia, with both Landmark and Ruralco 
engaging in retailing and wholesaling rural merchandise, and also offering a 
range of services including wool broking, livestock agency, live export, and other 
services. Post-acquisition, Landmark would be the largest national chain retailer 
and wholesaler of rural merchandise in Australia. 
22. 
Landmark and Ruralco, along with Elders, jointly own the online livestock sales 
platform AuctionsPlus.  
Rural merchandise  
Industry background  
23. 
Rural merchandise is an umbrella term for the various agricultural products 
purchased by farmers for use in operating a farm. Rural merchandise is sold to 
farmers through many retail outlets throughout Australia.  
24. 
The types of rural merchandise products typically sold by wholesalers and 
retailers include:  
 
fertilisers  
 
agricultural chemicals, including insecticides, herbicides and fungicides  
 
seed, including for broad-acre crops, pasture and/or vegetables  


Nutrien Ltd – proposed acquisition of Ruralco Holdings Limited 
 
Page 6 of 26 
 
fencing equipment, such as wire, mesh, posts and gates  
 
animal health, management and handling equipment, including fodder, 
vaccines, hormones and accessories  
 
other miscellaneous merchandise, which varies depending on the nature of 
the retail outlet and the customer base in the area, and  
 
agronomic advice, either on a standalone basis or in conjunction with the 
supply of farm inputs such as fertilisers and crop protection. While farmers 
can seek independent advice through a consultant, this is likely to come at 
greater cost.  
Other industry participants 
25. 
Elders is an Australian ASX listed company with a large network of 217 branches 
across Australia supplying rural merchandise and related services (agronomy 
services, livestock agency, wool broking, real estate agency, agricultural 
insurance, financial and water broking services). Elders employs 2,000 staff 
across Australia, China and Indonesia. In the year ended 30 September 2018, 
Elders’ sales were $1.61 billion. Elders is only a retailer of rural merchandise and 
is not a wholesaler, that is it only supplies rural merchandise to its own retail 
stores and does not supply independent retailers. 
26. 
There are a number of mid-sized rural merchandise retail chains, including: 
 
AGnVET, a retail chain with 60 stores in Queensland, NSW and Victoria, 
 
E.E. Muir & Sons, a retail chain with 32 stores in all states and the 
Northern Territory, and 
 
Delta Ag, a retail chain with 28 stores in NSW. 
27. 
There are also a large number of independent small retail chains and individual 
stores. 
28. 
There are three major national buying groups for independent retailers: AgLink, 
AIRR and NRI. Members of these buying groups may be individual retailers or a 
chain of retail stores. 
Wholesale 
29. 
Manufacturers of rural merchandise will generally supply retailers through three 
main avenues: 
 
Conventional wholesalers – Landmark and Ruralco (through CRT) sell or 
facilitate the supply of rural merchandise on a wholesale basis to non-
corporate ‘member’ stores. 
 
Buying groups – Retail stores may affiliate themselves with buying 
groups to collectively engage with manufacturers and negotiate better 
terms and access. The major buying groups are AIRR, NRI and AgLink.  


Nutrien Ltd – proposed acquisition of Ruralco Holdings Limited 
 
Page 7 of 26 
 
Direct to retailer – Some retailers deal directly with manufacturers without 
the assistance of a wholesaler or buying group, either for all or a portion of 
the rural merchandise products they acquire.  
30. 
The ACCC understands that typically wholesalers and buying groups negotiate 
prices with manufacturers on behalf of retailers, and that retailers then liaise 
directly with manufacturers for purchases and delivery. However, a retailer may 
purchase products directly from a wholesaler when it requires volumes that are 
too small to buy directly from the manufacturer. 
31. 
Some rural merchandise suppliers (e.g. 4Farmers and David Grays) operate on 
an agency model where a farmer in a particular region acts as an agent or dealer 
for the supplier’s rural merchandise products. There are also online brokerage 
platforms (like Farmsave), which allow farmers to compare prices across a 
number of resellers. 
Retail 
32. 
Retailers generally supply a range of rural merchandise, including those 
products set out earlier in this paper. Some retail outlets may focus on particular 
product lines depending on their location and the types of agriculture undertaken 
in that area (e.g. broad acre, pastoral, horticulture). 
33. 
Categories of retail stores include: 
 
Corporate stores – those owned and operated by a retail chain, such as 
Landmark, Ruralco or Elders.  
 
Independent stores – independently owned stores which may or may not 
be affiliated with a wholesaler (such as CRT) or buying group (such as 
AIRR). 
34. 
Rural merchandise is also sold by online stores, but market feedback to date 
suggests that it is not a popular option with most famers.  
Farmers/producers 
35. 
Rural merchandise is then sold by the retailer to the farmer. Farmers will either 
come into the store to acquire products and advice on the spot, or place orders 
over the phone or by email for delivery. Farmers who manage large farms may 
issue tenders to wholesalers and manufacturers for the supply of their rural 
merchandise needs. 


Nutrien Ltd – proposed acquisition of Ruralco Holdings Limited 
 
Page 8 of 26 
 
Table 1 – Retail chains and wholesalers – number of stores (national) 
 
Retail chains 
Landmark 
225 
Ruralco 
106 
Merged entity 
331 
Elders 
217 
AGnVet 
60 
E.E. Muir 
32 
Norco Rural 
30 
Delta Ag 
28 
Murray Goulburn Trading 
25 
North West Ag 
14 
Cotton Growers Services 
12 
Western AG 
7 
Further retail stores grouped by wholesaler/buying 
group 
Ruralco/CRT member stores  
246 
Landmark member stores 
77 
Merged entity 
323 
AIRR 
197 
NRI 
100 
David Grays AgLink 
40 
 
36. 
Table 1 has been compiled from publicly available information and the figures 
provided are estimates only. Table 1 should not be considered an exhaustive list 
of the total number of rural merchandise retailers in Australia.  
 
Market definition  
37. 
The ACCC’s starting point for defining relevant markets to assess the 
competitive effects of the proposed acquisition involves identifying the products 
and geographic regions actually or potentially supplied by the parties to the 
transaction. The ACCC then focuses on areas of activity where competitive harm 
could occur as a result of the proposed acquisition.  
Functional  
38. 
The ACCC considers that retailing and wholesaling of rural merchandise may be 
separate functional markets because:  
 
Although some players are vertically integrated there are also a number of 
independent retailers and wholesale-only suppliers. 
 
While some retailers purchase some rural merchandise products directly 
from manufacturers, the ACCC’s review indicates that many retailers need 
a wholesaler for at least some types of products. Further, purchasing 


Nutrien Ltd – proposed acquisition of Ruralco Holdings Limited 
 
Page 9 of 26 
directly from manufacturers without the assistance of a wholesaler or 
buying group may result in higher prices being paid by independent 
retailers.  
Product 
39. 
Multi-category rural merchandise retailers offer a suite of goods and services 
targeted and relevant for agriculture. The ACCC understands that customers 
value multi-category rural merchandise retailers because they reduce the travel 
and search costs.  
40. 
However, customers may also use rural merchandise retailers when they only 
wish to acquire a single product – for example a farmer may telephone a rural 
merchandise store to place an order for bulk fertiliser. 
41. 
In some local areas, speciality stores (such as a general hardware store) may be 
a substitute for multi-category rural merchandise stores – at least for some 
goods. Market inquiries have indicated that there is significant value for some 
farmers in having access to the range of goods and services they need under 
one roof. The ACCC is seeking further information about the proportion of 
purchases which involve single versus multiple product categories, and the 
proportion of customers who buy products across more than one category. While 
speciality stores may provide a competitive constraint within narrower product 
categories, they may not be a close substitute for the broader offering of rural 
merchandise retailers. 
42. 
The product element of the market is therefore likely to be the supply of a range 
of rural merchandise to consumers, including related services such as 
agronomic advice and delivery of goods (where applicable). However, the ACCC 
recognises that rural merchandise retailers also face some constraint from 
specialised retailers which only sell one category of product. 
Geographic – retail supply 
43. 
On the demand side, most farmers shop at rural merchandise stores located in 
their local areas.  
44. 
On the supply side, the ACCC understands that chains such as Landmark and 
Ruralco alter their prices between regions in response to the competition they 
face in each of those regions, and stock decisions often reflect the types of 
farming undertaken in that geographic region. Market feedback has also 
indicated that good relationships with local farmers, something which can be 
achieved by large chains and smaller independent stores alike, is one of the key 
ingredients to success in rural merchandise retailing.  
45. 
Nevertheless, Landmark and Ruralco are both large-scale, multi-category chain 
retailers which operate nationally with sophisticated integrated operations. The 
ACCC considers that this contributes to their effectiveness as a competitor in 
every local area where they operate.  In our competitive assessment, it is 
important to take into account how the acquisition might affect the competitive 
process at both the national and local levels.  
46. 
Competitors in local areas tend to be a mix of national chains and independent 
retailers (which may or may not be wholesale customers of national chain 
operators). The ACCC understands that retail chains regularly open or acquire 


Nutrien Ltd – proposed acquisition of Ruralco Holdings Limited 
 
Page 10 of 26 
new stores, but not without significant investment in establishing a retail store in 
the new locality.  
47. 
The ACCC’s review indicates that distances travelled by customers to buy rural 
merchandise vary from region to region. In most areas, the majority of customers 
have said they would travel around 50km for rural merchandise in their local 
area. However, customers may also travel further where they have a good 
relationship with a particular retailer or require a retailer who specialises in a 
particular line of products. In remote areas, particularly Western Australia and 
the Northern Territory, farms are often located much further than 50km from the 
nearest rural merchandise store. In these areas, a significant proportion of sales 
are likely to occur over the phone (i.e. without the customer visiting a store). For 
example, in the case of Broome and Alice Springs, the ACCC has heard that 
customers may order rural merchandise from retailers located in Perth or 
Adelaide respectively, and take advantage of discounted freight rates on trucks 
travelling on the return leg of delivery routes. Nevertheless, the customer may 
value the relationship with their local retailer and the advice they provide about 
local conditions. 
Geographic – Wholesale supply 
48. 
The ACCC is considering either national or state/regional-based markets for the 
wholesale supply of rural merchandise to retailers.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary views about 
the definition of the relevant market(s). In particular, market participants may wish to 
comment on the following: 
 
Do consumers of rural merchandise value being able to buy a range of different 
products (e.g. fertiliser, pesticides and fencing) from the one retailer? Or do you 
primarily visit rural merchandise stores in order to buy a single type of product? For 
retailers, how strong is the competition you face from speciality retailers (e.g. 
stores that only supply irrigation products, fencing or fertilisers), compared to 
general rural merchandise retailers?  
 
In your experience, how far do consumers typically travel to purchase rural 
merchandise (or, if they make purchases over the phone, within what distance 
from their property do they make those purchases)? Please identify the particular 
geographic areas you are familiar with and any specific factors that may affect 
geographic market definition in that area. 
 
To what extent is retail pricing for rural merchandise localised? For example, if you 
visit multiple Landmark corporate stores, do you find that prices vary significantly 
for the same product? If you are a retailer, how widely do you monitor the activities 
of competitors (e.g. do you only monitor competitors in your town, or across a 
wider geographic area (please specify)?  
 
Is the level of competition between rural merchandise wholesalers/buying groups 
similar across the country, or are there differences between the states and 
territories? For example, is a wholesaler/buying group more competitive in a 
particular state/territory if it has a warehouse located there? 
 
For retailers, if you operate stores in more than one region, do you consider using 
different wholesalers in each region?  Why or why not? 


Nutrien Ltd – proposed acquisition of Ruralco Holdings Limited 
 
Page 11 of 26 
Issues that may raise concern: retail supply of rural merchandise  
49. 
The ACCC is considering the following issues which may raise concern in the 
supply of rural merchandise: 
 
the potential impact of the proposed acquisition due to the combination of 
two of the three largest national retail chains,  
 
the potential increased concentration at a wholesale level and reduction of  
the number of supply options for independent retailers, and 
 
the potential for Landmark to increase prices and decrease service levels 
in certain local areas where the parties’ stores overlap and few competitors 
will remain. 
National effects  
50. 
As indicated above in the section Geographic – retail supply, the ACCC 
considers it important to have regard to how the proposed acquisition might 
affect the competitive process at the national level (by virtue of a combined 
Landmark/Ruralco’s national size and geographic breadth) as well as at the local 
level.  
51. 
The parties are both large national retailers and wholesalers, and a combined 
Landmark/Ruralco would supply around 650 rural merchandise stores nationally 
(including both corporate and member stores), which the ACCC understands is 
approximately 45% of all rural merchandise stores nationally.  
52. 
The proposed acquisition would also reduce the number of such chains from 
three to two. Elders, the other large national chain, has around two thirds the 
number of corporate (branch) stores that Landmark/Ruralco would have. There 
are also a number of smaller retail chains, the largest of which has less than a 
third of the number of stores that Elders has. The ACCC is considering a number 
of potential impacts from this consolidation at the national level. 
53. 
First, the ACCC is considering the extent to which the major retailers currently 
compete with each other at the national level, and the impact of the loss of 
competition from Ruralco at this level.  
54. 
The ACCC understands that, compared to certain other retail industries where 
national chains exist (e.g. supermarkets and hardware), typical measures of 
retail competition such as pricing, service levels, product range and promotional 
activities are more local in this industry. Nevertheless, nearly all retail chains 
coordinate their activities at the national level to some extent. For example, they 
may: 
 
issue guidance to stores about preferred product lines (which may take into 
account rebates payable to head office), or 
 
set target prices for their stores which influence the prices those stores 
charge (even if they do not determine them). 
55. 
The ACCC is still considering the effect of corporate ownership on the pricing 
and range decisions of corporate stores. 


Nutrien Ltd – proposed acquisition of Ruralco Holdings Limited 
 
Page 12 of 26 
56. 
Other aspects of competition that occur at the national level and may be affected 
by a reduction in the number of major national chains from three to two may 
include: 
 
developing or bringing to market innovations that may benefit farmers. For 
example, the ACCC understands that Landmark is currently investing in 
new regional capacity for blending and storage of fertiliser products that 
will enable it to produce more customised fertiliser products for farmers,2 
 
competition to develop and distribute private label products, and 
 
competition to deliver competitive finance terms to customers (such as 
longer deferred payment terms, lower interest rates on loans or higher 
interest rates on pre-payments). 
57. 
The ACCC is still considering how significant these aspects of competition are in 
this industry. 
58. 
Second, the ACCC is considering whether the proposed acquisition would 
provide Landmark with significantly greater bargaining power with its suppliers, 
compared to its competitors, and the impact this may have on competition 
between rural merchandise retailers. In addition to their significant share of retail 
stores, Landmark and Ruralco also negotiate terms on behalf of the independent 
retailers they supply. 
59. 
Market participants have expressed concerns that the proposed acquisition may 
significantly alter the balance of bargaining power between Landmark and 
manufacturers/suppliers of rural merchandise products, who may not be able to 
bypass Landmark post-acquisition given the significant proportion of domestic 
supply it represents through its retail networks. 
60. 
The ACCC notes that having scale is not necessarily anti-competitive and it can 
in fact enable a retail chain to achieve efficiencies which may, depending on the 
level of competition in the downstream market, be passed on to consumers in 
the form of lower prices.  
61. 
The ACCC understands that the concern of some market participants is that 
Landmark will have significant buyer power when acquiring wholesale goods 
which could give rise to a number of effects including: 
 
The ability to demand discounts on goods or services due to Landmark’s 
size and status as a ‘must have’ distribution channel 
 
Relatedly, the ability for Landmark to use the savings from lower input 
prices on some goods and services to compete on price for other products 
or in other geographic locations 
 
The ability to provide for certain goods or services to be exclusively 
supplied to Landmark 
                                                 
 
2 
https://www.farmonline.com.au/story/6042879/new-name-planned-for-new-landmark-afterruralco-
merger/ 


Nutrien Ltd – proposed acquisition of Ruralco Holdings Limited 
 
Page 13 of 26 
 
The ability to demand that goods or services be supplied to Landmark on 
terms equal to or better than any competitor (for example, via ‘most 
favoured nation clauses’), and/or 
 
The ability to pass discounts through to end customers on a selective basis, 
with a focus on acquiring or retaining larger and more profitable customers. 
62. 
Many of the factors listed above may be pro-competitive, particularly where 
lower prices or better service are passed on to the end consumers. However the 
ACCC is conscious that if Landmark is able to obtain supply on preferable terms, 
including in the ways outlined above, there are circumstances where this may 
lead to a reduction in competition and ultimately increased prices or a reduction 
in other benefits of competition for customers. In particular, the proposed 
acquisition will remove the second largest national retailer/wholesaler, who may 
have been best placed to obtain comparable deals from suppliers. This may 
have the effect of lessening competition at the national level and/or in local 
markets. The ACCC is continuing to consider the potential for a significant 
increase in scale to lead to a substantial lessening of competition. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to the 
issues identified above. In particular, market participants may wish to comment on the 
following: 
 
To what extent does the offering of a national rural merchandise chain such as 
Landmark or Ruralco vary from store to store? Do you prefer to acquire products 
from a national chain such as Landmark or Ruralco (rather than an independent 
store)? Why or why not? 
 
Any advantages that may be negotiated by larger scale retailers when purchasing 
rural merchandise (such as reduced prices, access to exclusive products, 
marketing support, transport or distribution benefits, finance terms, staff training, or 
any other advantages). 
 
Any advantages that may flow from being a large scale buyer, in terms of using the 
savings from exclusive discounts to compete on price across a broader product 
range or geographic location.  
 
How important are the finance terms offered when deciding where to purchase 
rural merchandise from?  Is there a difference in the finance terms offered by the 
national chains and the independents?  Please provide your reasoning and 
examples if possible. 
 
Is there anything that a national chain is able to provide to customers that an 
independent store cannot?  (e.g. greater product range, better distribution or 
delivery options, exclusive brands, better advice, better promotions, ability to 
service more than one geographic area, access to better technology)? Please 
explain why this is important. 
 
Is brand or price more important to you in choosing farm inputs such as fertiliser or 
agricultural chemicals?   
 
 


Nutrien Ltd – proposed acquisition of Ruralco Holdings Limited 
 
Page 14 of 26 
Local markets  
63. 
The ACCC understands that there are approximately 74 local markets where 
Landmark and Ruralco’s corporate stores overlap, based on a radius of 50km 
around each Ruralco corporate store.3 These are listed in Attachment A. In the 
majority of these areas there appear to be a number of competitors. However, 
there are certain areas where it appears there will be significant concentration 
post-acquisition.  
64. 
The ACCC is concerned that by removing a close local competitor, the proposed 
acquisition may lead to higher prices or lower service levels in the supply of rural 
merchandise in that local area. Whether this is likely to be the case will depend 
on, among other factors: 
 
the closeness of competition between neighbouring Landmark and Ruralco 
stores,  
 
the presence and proximity of other competing retailers in the local area, 
and 
 
the height of barriers to entry by new rural merchandise stores, or 
expansion by existing stores (e.g. a specialist retailer expanding into 
general rural merchandise). 
65. 
The ACCC has identified the following preliminary list of local areas where 
Landmark corporate stores overlap with Ruralco corporate stores and the 
number of remaining competitors is limited:  
 
Broome, WA 
 
Alice Springs, NT 
 
Katherine, NT 
 
Darwin, NT 
 
Cooma, NSW 
 
Hughenden, QLD, and 
 
Rockhampton, QLD. 
66. 
In these areas, the ACCC considers that the removal of Ruralco could potentially 
result in a substantial lessening of competition. This would be because few (and 
in the case of Broome and Alice Springs, only one) multi-category rural 
merchandise store would remain post-acquisition.   
67. 
In some of these local markets, there are specialist retailers (for example, 
retailers who specialise in supplying irrigation products, horticulture products or 
stock feed). While specialist retailers may impose a degree of constraint on 
                                                 
 
3 The 50km radius is used as a starting point only. The actual geographic boundaries of each local market 
will vary based on local factors. 


Nutrien Ltd – proposed acquisition of Ruralco Holdings Limited 
 
Page 15 of 26 
Landmark post-acquisition, they are not likely to impose as strong a constraint 
on Landmark as Ruralco currently does, given they supply a narrower range of 
products.  
68. 
The ACCC is also analysing local markets where there is currently either: 
 
a Landmark corporate store and a CRT member store, or 
 
a Ruralco corporate store and a Landmark member store. 
69. 
The ACCC understands that independent member stores supplied by the parties 
are generally responsible for their own decisions in relation to pricing, products 
and service levels. Nevertheless, the ACCC considers that a wholesaler has a 
degree of influence over the business of an independent store that it supplies, for 
example in relation to its product range. Post-acquisition, a Landmark-supplied 
independent store may not compete as strongly with a Landmark corporate store 
as, for example, an AIRR-supplied independent. Alternatively, a Landmark 
corporate store may have less of an incentive to compete strongly in a local area 
where it also earns revenue via the wholesale purchases of a member store 
located there. 
70. 
The ACCC has identified the following preliminary list of local areas where a 
Landmark corporate store overlaps with a CRT store, or a Ruralco corporate 
store overlaps with a Landmark member store, and the number of remaining 
competitors is limited: 
 
Maryborough and surrounding area, including Hervey Bay (QLD) 
 
Broughton and surrounding area, including Charters Towers (QLD) 
 
Charleville and surrounding area, including Roma (QLD), and 
 
Kangaroo Island (SA). 
71. 
The ACCC understands that, compared to some other retail industries, obtaining 
a suitable site for a new rural merchandise store is not likely to be especially 
difficult. Nevertheless, market feedback to date has suggested that barriers to 
establishing a rural merchandise store are not insignificant and could include: 
 
high capital costs in securing premises and inventory 
 
engaging a suitably qualified agronomist to provide advice to customers  
 
successfully developing relationships within the local community, and  
 
establishing competitive supply terms with manufacturers. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to 
local markets. In particular, market participants may wish to comment on the following: 
 
Your views on potential competition effects in any of the local markets identified 
above or in Attachment A, or any other local areas of overlap that you are aware 


Nutrien Ltd – proposed acquisition of Ruralco Holdings Limited 
 
Page 16 of 26 
of, including: 
o How closely do Landmark and Ruralco (including their member stores) 
compete in this area (for example, do they price match each other)? 
o How strong are other rural merchandise retailers in this local area, in terms 
of the competitiveness of their pricing, product range, service offering or 
other aspects? 
o Are there any specialist stores (e.g. irrigation supplies, fertiliser or fencing) 
that compete particularly strongly with Landmark/Ruralco in this area? 
o How far afield do farmers/producers in this area look to acquire rural 
merchandise (including placing orders over the phone)? 
 
To what extent do member stores (such as those belonging to CRT) compete with 
their wholesaler’s corporate stores in a local market? 
 
Wholesale supply of rural merchandise (horizontal and vertical effects) 
72. 
The ACCC is considering the impact of the proposed acquisition on the 
wholesale supply of rural merchandise, and whether the proposed acquisition 
may substantially lessen competition by removing a significant competitor to 
Landmark in the supply of rural merchandise to independent retailers, leading to 
increased prices or decreased service levels in rural merchandise wholesaling. 
73. 
The ACCC understands that the proposed acquisition would reduce the number 
of major wholesale suppliers (including buying groups) from 5 to 4. Should the 
acquisition proceed, the ACCC understands that Landmark would be the 
wholesaler to approximately a third of independent stores nationally. 
74. 
Ruralco (through CRT) is a major rural merchandise wholesaler to independents 
and the CRT brand has strong recognition. By contrast, Landmark has 
historically focussed more on its retail business. Market feedback and other 
information available to the ACCC has not indicated that Landmark and CRT are 
especially close competitors at the wholesale level.  
75. 
The ACCC is also considering potential vertical issues from the proposed 
acquisition. Some market participants have suggested that, following the 
proposed acquisition, Landmark may have less of an incentive to provide 
wholesale supply of rural merchandise on competitive terms to member stores. 
In particular, some owners of CRT member stores have expressed concern that 
because they are located in local areas where there is also a Landmark 
corporate store, Landmark may have the incentive to increase prices or 
otherwise discriminate against them in favour of its corporate stores. The same 
concern could apply to Landmark member stores in areas where there is 
currently a Ruralco corporate store. 
76. 
Whether it would be profitable for Landmark to engage in such a strategy post-
acquisition would depend on factors such as: 
 
the closeness of competition between the Landmark corporate store and 
the independent store in the relevant area (i.e. whether Landmark could 


Nutrien Ltd – proposed acquisition of Ruralco Holdings Limited 
 
Page 17 of 26 
expect to gain any customers lost by the CRT member store, or whether 
they would be more likely to switch to a different competitor), and 
 
the ease with which independent retailers can switch wholesalers (i.e. 
whether there are factors such as brand recognition that may impede 
switching) and the suitability of other wholesale options. 
77. 
The major competing wholesalers/buying groups post-acquisition would be 
AIRR, NRI and AgLink. Market inquiries indicate that at least two of these would 
provide a suitable alternative to Landmark’s and Ruralco’s wholesale businesses 
for most independent retailers. AIRR is already a major wholesaler with a 
significant market share. However, there appear to be some differences between 
wholesalers’ business models, which may affect the suitability of some 
wholesalers for certain retailers. For example, AgLink appears to primarily supply 
smaller retail chains rather than standalone stores, and the ACCC understands 
that NRI does not purchase products on behalf of its members, who need to 
maintain direct accounts with each supplier.  
78. 
The ACCC is also considering the height of barriers to entry for new rural 
merchandise wholesalers or buying groups. The ACCC is aware that AIRR was 
founded in 2006 and is now a significant wholesaler.  
79. 
The ACCC also understands that it may not be essential for wholesalers/buying 
groups to have a distribution network as it is common in the industry for 
manufacturers/suppliers to deliver direct to stores.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to 
rural merchandise wholesaling. In particular, market participants may wish to comment 
on the following: 
 
If you are currently a wholesale customer of Landmark or Ruralco, which 
wholesaler is your next best option and why? Are AIRR, NRI and AgLink all good 
alternatives to Landmark/Ruralco? Why or why not? 
 
For retailers, what is important to you in selecting a wholesaler?  For example, do 
you look at price, buying power, brand of the wholesaler, brand of products they 
can supply to you, their distribution capabilities, member benefits or other 
services?  Are there any factors that limit your choice of wholesaler?     
 
How readily can independent stores switch wholesalers/buying groups, or reduce 
reliance on their existing wholesaler by purchasing more products elsewhere? 
 
To what extent is purchasing rural merchandise direct from 
manufacturers/suppliers an option, if an independent retailer is dissatisfied with the 
wholesale/buying group options available? 
Issue unlikely to raise concern: Integration of product manufacturing and 
distribution  
80. 
The ACCC understands that Landmark and Ruralco supply private label, or 
branded generic, products including agricultural chemicals, seeds and animal 
health products. Landmark’s parent company Nutrien is also a major global 
fertiliser producer. 


Nutrien Ltd – proposed acquisition of Ruralco Holdings Limited 
 
Page 18 of 26 
81. 
A number of concerns have been raised about the vertical integration between 
Nutrien and a significantly larger Landmark retail business post-acquisition, 
primarily in relation to the supply of agricultural chemicals and seeds. There is a 
concern that the merged entity may replace products currently acquired from 
Australian agricultural chemical and seed manufacturers with 
Nutrien/Landmark’s products.  
82. 
Some market participants have raised concerns that the loss of such volumes 
may cause smaller manufacturers to exit Australia. This could adversely affect 
other wholesalers/buying groups, and farmers, who would have fewer supply 
options remaining.  
83. 
The ACCC notes that Nutrien is a very large international company and that this 
relationship may give Landmark significant competitive advantages. However, 
this relationship is an existing feature of the market. Landmark may also seek to 
increase sales of its private label products at the expense of third party 
proprietary products, but it is not clear that the proposed acquisition significantly 
increases its ability to do so. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed 
acquisition is not likely to significantly increase Nutrien’s ability to distribute its 
products in Australia at the expense of competing manufacturers.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary views 
about vertical integration between product manufacturing and distribution.  
Wool broking  
84. 
Based upon its inquiries to date, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the 
proposed acquisition is unlikely to substantially lessen competition in the supply 
of wool broking services. 
Industry background  
85. 
The Australian wool industry involves several different channels in the sale and 
movement of wool from the wool grower to the end consumer. A grower may sell 
wool through an auction (physically or online), direct to a private buyer (domestic 
or international), to a wool buying business or other intermediaries, or by forward 
contract. A large majority of these sales are facilitated by a wool broker. 
86. 
Physical auctions account for around 85% to 95% of sales, the large majority of 
which are conducted in three wool selling centres located in Sydney, Fremantle 
and Melbourne. These centres are regulated by the Australian Wool Exchange 
(AWEX) and owned by Australian Wool Handlers (AWH). 
87. 
A wool broker acts as an agent representing the wool grower, either at auction 
(most commonly) or in a private sale. Wool broking services may include on-farm 
advice, appraising wool, storage of wool pending sale, marketing wool and 
quoting an expected sale price for a producer’s clip. Wool brokers may also offer 
“shearing advances”, an advance of money from broker to grower pending sale. 
Post-sale wool handling services include preparing wool for export and delivery 
of wool to domestic and international buyers. 
88. 
Generally, wool brokers charge for their services in one of two ways: larger 
brokers use a combined commission system and flat warehouse fee structure, 
whereas smaller brokers tend to charge a flat rate per bale/kilogram. 


Nutrien Ltd – proposed acquisition of Ruralco Holdings Limited 
 
Page 19 of 26 
89. 
Landmark uses AWH for the handling and storage of wool. Landmark has a 50% 
interest in AWH, with DP World Australia also holding a 50% interest. AWH 
handles over 54% of the national clip.4 
90. 
Ruralco primarily organises its own handling and storage of wool. 
Market definition  
Product dimension 
91. 
Market participants indicate a strong preference for using the services of a wool 
broker, regardless of sale method. Accordingly the ACCC considers that selling 
wool directly is generally not a sufficiently close substitute for using the services 
of a wool broker. 
Geographic dimension 
92. 
The ACCC understands that the wool industry has three administrative regions: 
 
Western wool growing region (wool grown primarily in Western Australia 
and sold in Fremantle)  
 
Southern wool growing region (wool grown primarily in Victoria, South 
Australia, Tasmania and parts of New South Wales and sold in Melbourne) 
 
Northern wool growing region (wool grown primarily in Queensland and 
parts of New South Wales and sold in Sydney) 
93. 
The geographic scope of wool markets is influenced by the distance to one of 
the three national wool auction centres in Melbourne (Brooklyn), Sydney 
(Yennora) and Fremantle (Bibra Lake).  
94. 
Some wool brokers are present across an entire wool growing region, whereas 
some have smaller local presences. Wool growers have indicated that local 
relationships are important when choosing a wool broker.  
Areas of overlap  
95. 
Landmark and Ruralco overlap in the provision of wool broking services in the 
Western and Southern regions. The parties have very limited wool broking 
operations in the Northern region. 
Issue unlikely to raise concern – wool broking 
96. 
The ACCC understands that, based on 2018 data, the six largest wool brokers in 
the Western region are:  
 
Landmark (~23% market share) 
 
Ruralco (~23% market share) 
 
Elders (~18% market share) 
 
Dyson Jones (~14% market share) 
                                                 
 
4 https://www.awh.com.au/wool-services/wool-services. 


Nutrien Ltd – proposed acquisition of Ruralco Holdings Limited 
 
Page 20 of 26 
 
West Coast Wool (~12% market share) 
 
Wool Agency (~9% market share) 
97. 
Together, these six wool brokers hold approximately 98% market share of wool 
sold by auction. There were very low volumes sold by other wool brokers at 
auction in WA in 2018. 
98. 
The six largest wool brokers in the Southern region are: 
 
Elders (~24% market share) 
 
Landmark (~19% market share) 
 
Ruralco (~12% market share) 
 
Quality Wool (~12% market share) 
 
Australian Wool Network (~11% market share) 
 
Fox & Lillie Rural (~10% market share) 
99. 
Together, these six wool brokers hold approximately 88% market share of wool 
sold by auction. The remaining 12% market share is held by 13 wool brokers. 
These small brokers individually hold no more than 2% market share. 
100. Notwithstanding the parties’ high market shares, particularly in the Western 
region, the ACCC considers that other wool brokers are likely to continue to 
place competitive pressure on combined Landmark-Ruralco wool broking 
operations in the Western and Southern regions. Wool producers generally 
indicated that there were a number of wool brokers available to them in their 
region. 
101. Market inquiries indicate that the six wool brokers listed for each of the Western 
and Southern regions above provide comparable levels of service at comparable 
rates. 
102. Market participants also indicate that the smaller wool brokers (those with 2% 
market share or less) are generally able to compete effectively with larger ones. 
Market inquiries indicate that small wool broking operations are viable without 
owning their own storage facilities, logistics infrastructure or invoicing systems. 
Smaller wool brokers are able to provide the essential services of a wool broker 
such as quoting an expected price, marketing and selling wool at auction, whilst 
paying to use the back end infrastructure of larger wool brokers or specialist 
wool handlers such as AWH. These smaller wool brokers pass on the storage 
and handling costs to the producer. 
103. Some wool producers indicate a preference for larger brokers who have 
established relationships with primarily international buyers. However, producers 
generally consider that there are large brokers other than the parties, or that 
smaller brokers were a suitable alternative in their area. 
 
 


Nutrien Ltd – proposed acquisition of Ruralco Holdings Limited 
 
Page 21 of 26 
Likelihood of entry or expansion  
104. The ACCC considers that barriers to initial entry for wool brokers may not be 
especially high. Market inquiries to date indicate that: 
 
Personal relationships are an important factor for wool producers in 
choosing their broker. Producers will often follow a wool broker to a 
different company.  
 
Large capital outlays in storage facilities and logistics networks are not 
necessary to initially enter the market as these services are available from 
third parties. 
 
Although large capital outlays are not necessary to enter the wool broking 
market, barriers are higher for wool brokers seeking to expand into offering 
wool storage and handling as part of their services.  
105. Market feedback indicates that there are generally low barriers for wool 
producers to switch between wool brokers as wool brokers are engaged on a 
seasonal basis as wool is prepared to be sold.  
Vertical integration 
106. As discussed above, Landmark has a 50% interest in AWH, which undertakes all 
of Landmark’s wool handling and storage. Ruralco primarily organises its own 
handling and storage of wool.  
107. The ACCC has considered the vertical integration of wool broking and handling 
services in a combined Landmark-Ruralco business, given Landmark currently 
holds a 50% interest in AWH (the other 50% is owned by DP World Australia). In 
particular, the ACCC has considered the ability of the post-merger entity to 
foreclose competing wool brokers by preventing access to the wool handling 
services of AWH at a competitive price. 
108. Market inquiries have indicated that AWH provides wool handling and logistics 
services for competitor wool brokers. Some of the larger wool brokers currently 
have their own wool handling capabilities including wool storage sheds for their 
own use. 
109. Market participants have not raised concerns in relation to the ownership of 
AWH. Market participants have indicated that if AWH wool handling prices were 
to be raised, other wool brokers would be able to expand into providing their 
wool handling services to wool brokers. 
110. The ACCC considers it unlikely that the proposed acquisition will increase 
Landmark’s ability or incentive to foreclose competitors, for example by raising 
the price of access of AWH wool handling services. 
111. The ACCC has also considered competition in relation to post-sale charges paid 
to wool brokers. Market participants have indicated that post-sale charge rates 
are comparable amongst Landmark, Ruralco and their competitors.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary views about 
wool broking competition.  


Nutrien Ltd – proposed acquisition of Ruralco Holdings Limited 
 
Page 22 of 26 
ACCC’s preliminary views 
112. In summary, the ACCC does not consider that the proposed acquisition is likely 
to lead to a substantial lessening of competition in the provision of wool broking 
services in any geographic area. 
Livestock agency and live export  
113. Based upon its inquiries to date, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the 
proposed acquisition is unlikely to substantially lessen competition in the 
provision of livestock agency services or live export. 
Industry background  
114. The parties provide livestock agency services across Australia, with the parties’ 
agents often being based at a local rural merchandise branch.  
115. The primary role of a livestock agent is to arrange the sale of livestock, 
commonly at saleyard auctions, through private (paddock) sales or “over the 
hooks” sales (where the producer organises for livestock delivery direct to meat 
processors and an agent may be involved in the negotiations of terms of sale). 
Livestock agents typically charge producers a commission for their services 
ranging from 2.5% to 5% of the sale price. 
116. Market inquiries suggest that a close working relationship with farmers and 
having expert knowledge of local conditions is an important aspect of being a 
livestock agent. 
117. A farmer’s choice of sale method may be determined by proximity to saleyards 
or abattoirs, stock type and size and other factors. For example smaller-scale 
farmers with fewer head of livestock are more likely to sell through a saleyard as 
they can sell in small lot sizes. 
118. Buyers of livestock are usually meat processors, livestock exporters and other 
livestock producers. 
119. Live exporters are in the business of purchasing livestock for export to overseas 
markets. Live exporters may purchase livestock direct from producers or via a 
livestock agent representing the vendor. Landmark is a live exporter through its 
Landmark International business. Ruralco is also a live exporter through a joint 
venture called Frontier International. The parties’ live export operations overlap 
in the live export of cattle only.  
Market definition  
120. Producers have multiple sales methods available including saleyard auctions, 
paddock to paddock (private sales), online sales via AuctionsPlus or direct to 
processor via “over the hooks” sales. These sales methods can be undertaken 
without the services of a livestock agent, however market inquiries have 
indicated a preference to undertake sales with the assistance of a livestock 
agent. Market inquiries also indicate that preferences for particular sale methods 
may vary by region. Some larger-scale livestock producers have indicated they 
are able to directly negotiate sales to processors without the use of livestock 
agents.  


Nutrien Ltd – proposed acquisition of Ruralco Holdings Limited 
 
Page 23 of 26 
121. In the case of sales through Auctions Plus and for some private sales, the ACCC 
understands that buyers will generally require an objective assessment of the 
livestock prior to sale. Whilst assessors can offer their services independent of a 
livestock agent, producers typically engage the services of an assessor through 
their livestock agent.  
122. The ACCC considers that the appropriate geographic dimension of the livestock 
agency market is likely to be regional. The distances that livestock travel from 
producer to purchaser vary depending on multiple factors including remoteness 
of the producing region and fluctuations in livestock conditions across different 
regions. 
123. Livestock producers have indicated their choice of agent is typically made based 
on their relationships with the individual agents servicing their region. The 
distances that livestock agents cover vary from region to region, ranging up to 
600km and 1,000km in the most remote parts of Australia.  
124. The geographic dimension of the live export market for cattle is also likely to be 
regional. The ACCC understands that live exporters primarily source cattle 
through paddock sales, aggregating purchases in yards located close to ports for 
a pre-shipment quarantine period.  
Issue unlikely to raise concern – livestock agency 
Competition from other livestock agents 
125. Landmark, Ruralco, Elders and Ray White Rural and Livestock provide livestock 
agency services across all states and territories. In addition, there are large 
livestock agencies that have a significant presence at the state or regional level 
including Forbes Livestock & Agency Co (NSW), Delta Agribusiness (NSW), HF 
Richardson (Victoria), S&C Livestock (WA) and Westcoast Livestock (WA).  
126. The ACCC understands that Landmark’s share of livestock sales post-
acquisition would be modest.  
127. Market inquiries indicate that there are suitable alternatives in the provision of 
livestock agency services to the parties in each region where they overlap. 
128. Market inquiries indicate that in certain remote areas, including Broome and 
Alice Springs, the choice of livestock agents with a local presence would be 
limited after the proposed acquisition. However, market feedback indicates that 
livestock agents will travel to service clients in remote areas where they don’t 
have a permanent presence if there is sufficient demand (for example, a 
livestock agent servicing northern Queensland also services cattle producers 
across the Northern Territory and agents located close to Perth have clients in 
the Broome region).  
129. Some livestock producers indicate a preference for using larger agent 
companies which have established relationships with buyers. However, 
producers generally consider that smaller or independent agents are a suitable 
alternative. Further, it is not necessary for an agent to have an established 
logistics business as producers typically use the logistics networks of third 
parties. Agents may assist producers in organising logistics via a third party. 
130. The ACCC also considers that the threat of entry or expansion may impose 
some competitive constraint on Landmark post-acquisition as the largest barrier 


Nutrien Ltd – proposed acquisition of Ruralco Holdings Limited 
 
Page 24 of 26 
to entry for livestock agents is establishing relationships with livestock producers. 
The ACCC understands agents may switch from one company to another or to 
commence their own operations with minimal outlay of capital. Producers tend to 
follow their livestock agent and are willing to use the services of independent 
livestock agents or smaller livestock agent companies.  
131. In some areas, saleyards are privately owned by one or a combination of 
livestock agency businesses, such as Landmark or Ruralco. The ACCC 
understands that these saleyards generally do not allow access to livestock 
agents not affiliated with the businesses that own the saleyards. However, this 
appears to be an existing feature of the market. In most regions, there are 
saleyards owned by councils or independent third party operators, which are 
accessible to all agents by payment of a fee.  
132. Some market participants have also raised concerns about consolidation in the 
ownership of Auctions Plus. The ACCC does not consider that the removal of 
Ruralco as a third shareholder and increase in Landmark’s shareholding raises 
significant competition issues. 
Issue unlikely to raise concern – live export 
133. The ACCC notes that there is a large number of competitors in live export, 
including Australian Rural Exports, Livestock Shipping Services, North Australian 
Cattle Company, International Livestock Export, South East Asian Livestock 
Services and Halleen Australasian Livestock Traders. These major competitors 
to the parties account for around three quarters of live export volumes in cattle 
(based on 2017 figures).  The ACCC understands that the parties’ combined live 
export volumes for cattle were modest and that the parties do not overlap in the 
live export of sheep.  
134. The ACCC considers that there is likely to be sufficient constraint from remaining 
competitors in the live export market.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary views about 
livestock agent and live export competition.  
Other services  
135. Landmark and Ruralco overlap in the supply of a number of other services, 
namely, real estate agency, insurance broking, and water broking. 
Issues unlikely to raise concerns 
136. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to 
substantially lessen competition in the supply of insurance broking, real estate 
agency or water broking services.  
137. In relation to water broking and trading services, the ACCC understands that 
there is extremely limited overlap between the parties, because Landmark only 
has a single water broker who operates in the Goulburn Valley, Victoria.  
138. In relation to the supply of real estate agency and insurance broking services, 
Landmark will have a modest market share post-acquisition and there appears to 


Nutrien Ltd – proposed acquisition of Ruralco Holdings Limited 
 
Page 25 of 26 
be a range of remaining competitors including large national agents/brokers and 
independent agents or brokers to constrain Landmark post-acquisition.  
ACCC's future steps 
139. As noted above, the ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on 
each of the issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue 
that may be relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. Submissions are 
to be received by the ACCC no later than 27 June 2019 and should be emailed 
to mergers@accc.gov.au. 
140. The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
141. The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 15 August 2019. 
However the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose 
of explaining the ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's 
public announcement to explain its final view. 


Attachment A – Areas where there is a Landmark corporate store 
within 50kms of a Ruralco corporate store 
Page 26 of 26 
Alexandra 
Alice Springs 
Ayr 
Balaklava 
Barham 
Bathurst 
Bellevue 
Bibra Lake 
Bomaderry 
Boort 
Broome 
Bundaberg 
Childers 
Clare 
Cobram 
Coleambally 
Cooma 
Coorow 
Corrigin 
Crystal Brook 
Culcairn 
Dalwallinu 
Darwin 
Deniliquin 
Dimboola 
East Bendigo 
Echuca 
Emerald 
Esperance 
Forbes 
Fraser Coast 
Geraldton 
Gnowangerup 
Griffith 
Hillston 
Home Hill 
Horsham 
Hughenden 
Humpty Doo 
Hume 
Hyden 
Kaniva 
Katanning 
Katherine 
Kilmore 
Kimba 
Kondinin 
Lake Grace 
Loxton 
Mallala 
Mansfield 
Maryborough 
Meningie 
Merredin 
Mildura 
Moe 
Moora 
Mt Barker 
Murray Bridge 
Nhill 
Northam 
Oakwood 
Ooralea 
Parkes 
Peak Hill 
Port Pirie 
Quairading 
Renmark 
Robertson 
Rockhampton 
Shellharbour 
Shoalhaven 
Strathalbyn 
Swan Hill 
Toogoolawah 
Traralgon 
Virginia 
Wakefield 
Wongan Hills 
York 
