 
Page 1 of 16 
 
Public Competition Assessment 
4 October 2019 
Landmark - proposed acquisition of Ruralco  
 
The ACCC’s decision 
1. 
On 22 August 2019, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission 
announced its decision not to oppose the proposed acquisition by Nutrien Ltd 
(Nutrien) of Ruralco Ltd (Ruralco) (the proposed acquisition) after accepting a 
section 87B undertaking from Nutrien to divest its stores in Alice Springs, 
Broome and Hughenden. In Australia, Nutrien operates under the Landmark 
brand.   
2. 
The ACCC considered that the proposed acquisition, taking into account the 
undertaking, would be unlikely to contravene section 50 of the Competition and 
Consumer Act 2010 (the Act).  
3. 
Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to have 
the effect, of substantially lessening competition in any market. 
4. 
Landmark and Ruralco both supply a range of agriculture-related products and 
services. The ACCC considered the competitive effects of the proposed 
acquisition in markets for the supply of:  
 
rural merchandise 
 
wool broking services 
 
livestock agency 
 
insurance broking services 
 
real estate agency, and 
 
water broking services. 
5. 
This Public Competition Assessment outlines the reasons for the ACCC’s 
decision not to oppose, taking into account the undertaking, the proposed 
acquisition. 


 
Page 2 of 16 
6. 
This assessment, like other public competition assessments, is subject to the 
following qualifications: 
 
The ACCC considers each transaction on a case-by-case basis and so the 
analysis and decision outlined in one assessment will not necessarily 
reflect the ACCC’s view of another transaction, even where that other 
transaction may involve the same or a related market. 
 
As assessments are intended to be concise and do not refer to confidential 
information provided by the parties or other market participants, they do 
not necessarily set out all of the issues and information considered by the 
ACCC, nor all of the analysis and reasons of the ACCC.  
The parties 
The acquirer: Nutrien 
7. 
Nutrien (through its Landmark brand in Australia) supplies rural merchandise 
through its 225 corporate stores across the country as well as supplying 
independent (member and non-member) stores on a wholesale basis.  
8. 
Landmark also provides wool broking, livestock agency and export services, real 
estate agency and agricultural insurance broking services. Landmark has 
operated in Australia (through predecessor organisations) for more than 150 
years. 
The target: Ruralco 
9. 
Ruralco is a publicly listed company in Australia, formed in 2006 when Combined 
Rural Traders (CRT) and Roberts Limited merged. Ruralco has been operating 
(through predecessor organisations) for more than 150 years.  
10. Ruralco provides a very similar range of services to Landmark. It supplies rural 
merchandise through its 106 corporate stores nationally (operating under a 
number of brands including Roberts and Rodwells) and also supplies member 
stores (independent retailers who have signed a membership agreement) via its 
wholesale arm, CRT. These members may be branded as either CRT or Town & 
Country.  
11. Ruralco also offers water broking services. 
The transaction  
12. On 27 February 2019, Nutrien announced its intention to acquire all issued 
shares of Ruralco by scheme of arrangement.  The transaction involves Nutrien 
(or an Australian wholly-owned subsidiary of Nutrien) acquiring 100 per cent of 
the shares in Ruralco, at a total value of approximately $469 million. The scheme 
became effective on 13 September 2019. 


 
Page 3 of 16 
Review timeline 
13. The following table outlines the timeline of key events for the ACCC in this 
matter. 
Date 
Event 
22/3/2019 
 
 
13/06/2019 
 
 
29/07/2019 
 
 
07/08/2019 
 
 
 
22/08/2019 
ACCC commenced review under the Informal Merger Review 
Process Guidelines. 
 
ACCC published a Statement of Issues outlining preliminary 
competition concerns. 
 
ACCC commenced market consultation on proposed s87B 
undertaking. 
 
Former provisional date for announcement of decision (15th August) 
delayed to allow the ACCC further time to consider feedback received 
and the proposed s87B undertaking. 
 
The ACCC announced it would not oppose the proposed acquisition, 
subject to a section 87B undertaking accepted by the ACCC.  
 
 
Market inquiries 
14. The ACCC conducted market inquiries with a range of industry participants, 
including competitors, customers including farmers, input suppliers, industry 
bodies and other interested parties. Submissions were sought in relation to the 
substantive competition issues and the proposed undertaking. 
Statement of Issues  
15. On 13 June 2019, the ACCC published a Statement of Issues identifying 
preliminary concerns that the proposed acquisition may reduce competition in 
the supply of rural merchandise by: 
 
combining two of the three largest retail chains with a national presence 
(national retail chains),  
 
removing one of few competitors to Landmark in certain local areas 
where the parties’ stores overlap,  
 
increasing concentration at the wholesale level and reducing the number 
of supply options for independent retailers, and  
 
increasing the ability and incentive of Landmark to discriminate against 
independent stores it supplies in areas where they compete with 
Landmark’s corporate stores.  


 
Page 4 of 16 
Industry background 
Other industry participants 
Retail 
16. There are a number of other suppliers of rural merchandise at the retail level 
including: 
 
Elders, an Australian ASX listed company with a large chain of 217 
branches across Australia supplying rural merchandise and related 
services (agronomy, livestock agency, wool broking, real estate agency, 
agricultural insurance, financial and water broking services),  
 
mid-sized chains including, but not limited, to AGnVET, E. E. Muir & 
Sons, Delta Ag, Murray Goulburn Trading, Pursehouse Rural, Lindsay 
Rural, North West Ag, McGregor Gourlay, Cotton Grower Services and 
Western Ag,  
 
a large number of independent retailers (that is, small business operators 
who own one or a small number of stores). These stores are often 
affiliated with a wholesaler or buying group such as CRT or AIRR. The 
ACCC estimated that over 55 percent of rural merchandise stores are 
independent retailers.  
17. Retailers generally supply a range of rural merchandise. Some retail outlets may 
focus on particular product lines depending on their location and the types of 
agriculture undertaken in that area (e.g. broad acre, pastoral, horticulture). 
18. There are also specialist retailers, which focus on particular categories of 
products (e.g. irrigation equipment or stock feed). Specialist retailers may 
provide an alternative to general rural merchandise retailers for certain products, 
depending on factors including whether expert knowledge is required, price and 
availability of product. 
19. Rural merchandise is also sold by online stores, but market feedback suggested 
that it is not a popular option for most famers.  
Wholesale 
20. There are five main wholesalers/buying groups who supply independent retailers 
(Landmark, Ruralco, AgLink, AIRR and NRI). Members of these 
wholesalers/buying groups may be individual retailers or a chain of retail stores. 
21. AgLink is a member organisation for a group of 15 shareholders, who are 
independent rural merchandise retailers with around 200 locations nationally.  
AgLink was founded in 1986.  
22. AIRR is an unlisted public company that operates as a member based buying 
group, marketing group and wholesaler of rural merchandise. It was established 
in 2006 to assist independent retailers to access benefits available from scaled 
collective buying and marketing. AIRR supplies rural merchandise to: 170 AIRR 
members (at 240 locations); 100 Tuckers Pet and Produce (Tuckers) members 


 
Page 5 of 16 
(at 160 locations); and approximately 1,500 independent retailers who are not 
members of either AIRR or Tuckers.  
23. NRI is a rural distributor group that has established partnerships with major 
supply companies. It has approximately 103 members.  NRI does not purchase 
or pay for products and its members need to maintain individual accounts with 
each supplier. NRI helps retailers to set up these accounts so that retailers can 
have access to NRI’s supply terms.  
24. Manufacturers/importers of rural merchandise also sell directly to independent 
retailers, particularly for high-volume products.  
Farmers/producers  
25. Rural merchandise is then sold by the retailer to the farmer. Farmers will typically 
either come into a store to acquire products and advice on the spot, or place 
orders over the phone or by email for delivery. Farmers who manage large farms 
may issue tenders to retailers or manufacturers for the supply of their rural 
merchandise needs. 
Market definition 
Product dimension – rural merchandise 
26. The ACCC considered that the relevant market was likely to comprise the supply 
of a range of rural merchandise products. The precise products supplied vary 
somewhat from region to region (according to the requirements of local farmers), 
but typically include fertiliser, agricultural chemicals, seed, fencing, animal health 
products, stock feed and other miscellaneous merchandise. Some rural 
merchandise stores also offer agronomic advice. 
27. Many farmers value the convenience of purchasing products from multiple 
categories from a single supplier, therefore purchasing from a specialist retailer 
is not a good substitute for a general rural merchandise retailer in many 
instances. However, in some instances farmers may choose speciality retailers 
over general rural merchandise retailers, particularly for very specialised 
products such as irrigation equipment or for high value purchases. There is also 
some ability for specialist retailers to expand into the supply of general rural 
merchandise, but it may take some time and investment to establish the required 
distribution arrangements and product knowledge.  
Functional dimension – rural merchandise 
28. The ACCC considered it was appropriate to separately analyse the effect of the 
proposed acquisition in relation to retailing of rural merchandise and wholesaling 
of rural merchandise. While Landmark and Ruralco are vertically integrated, 
many industry participants are not and only operate as either wholesalers or 
retailers.  
29. The ACCC also considered up-stream markets, for the acquisition of rural 
merchandise products from manufacturers/importers.  


 
Page 6 of 16 
Geographic dimension – rural merchandise  
30. The ACCC considers that in retail markets involving chains such as Landmark 
and Ruralco, competition may occur at more than one geographic level, for 
example national and local. While all retailers compete to attract customers from 
other similar retailers in the same local area, retail chains typically also compete 
through elements of their retail offers that may be determined across a broader 
area. They make such broader decisions by reference to the broader offer of 
other chains and the aggregate constraint imposed by independent retailers.  
31. However, the ACCC found that, unlike other retail industries such as 
supermarkets, competition in the supply of rural merchandise is substantially 
local. This is driven by demand side factors, in particular the variances in 
customer requirements in different parts of the country, and the importance of 
service and customer relationships.  
32. Although most farmers shop at rural merchandise stores located in their local 
areas, the typical distance travelled varies significantly between regions. In most 
areas, the majority of customers said they would travel around 50km for rural 
merchandise. However, customers may also travel further where they have a 
good relationship with a particular retailer or require a retailer who specialises in 
a particular line of products. In remote areas, farms are often located much 
further than 50km from the nearest rural merchandise store. In these areas, a 
significant proportion of sales are likely to occur over the phone (i.e. without the 
customer visiting a store). However, in some cases farmers may travel hundreds 
of kilometres to visit a retail store (often combining such trips with other errands).   
33. Alternatively, customers may order rural merchandise from retailers located in 
their closest major city, and take advantage of discounted freight rates on trucks 
travelling on the return leg of delivery routes. On the other hand, many 
customers stated that they value the relationship with their local retailer and the 
advice they provide about local conditions.  
34. In relation to wholesale supply, the ACCC found that the market for the 
wholesale supply of rural merchandise to independent retailers was likely to be 
national, as most of the major wholesalers have national operations.  
Other markets 
35. The ACCC also considered the likely effects of the proposed acquisition on 
separate markets for the supply of: 
 
wool broking services 
 
livestock agency 
 
insurance broking services 
 
real estate agency, and 
 
water broking services. 


 
Page 7 of 16 
Rural merchandise – national competition effects  
36. The ACCC determined that the proposed acquisition was not likely to 
substantially lessen competition at the national level. 
Limited national competition 
37. Landmark and Ruralco are both large-scale, multi-category chain retailers which 
operate nationally with sophisticated integrated operations. Aspects of their 
strategy are set at the national level, and their national scale contributes to their 
effectiveness as a competitor in every local area where they operate. 
38. However, competition on national initiatives is not a strong feature of this 
industry. Unlike supermarket retailing, competition is primarily determined by 
local factors. Landmark and Ruralco set their retail prices and product ranges 
locally in response to local competitive conditions, including competition from 
independent retailers. The strength of retailers (whether part of a chain or not) 
varies significantly from local area to local area.  Relationships are more 
important than branding to most customers. This means that a national presence 
is not as great an advantage as in some other retail industries, and there is 
opportunity for independent retailers to compete with large chains. 
39. The ACCC estimated that over 55 per cent of retail stores in Australia are 
independently owned, the majority as a small business operation.1 Market 
inquiries confirmed that many of the independent stores, and particularly the 
smaller chains, compete aggressively. 
40. The ACCC did not find that large chains such as Landmark and Ruralco have 
access to strong economies of scale, particularly in distributing products to 
stores, which give them significant competitive advantages over smaller retailers. 
Market feedback indicated that a substantial proportion of products are delivered 
direct from the manufacturer’s facilities to individual stores or to the end 
customer/farmer. Accordingly economies of scale in distribution are not as 
significant as in some other retail industries. Further, wholesalers such as AIRR 
provide smaller retailers with access to some of these scale benefits. 
41. The ACCC considered whether removing one of only three large national retail 
chains would reduce competition by eliminating one of few large buyers of rural 
merchandise that is able to obtain lower prices. If this were the case, the 
proposed acquisition may eliminate a particularly effective competitor and reduce 
the competitive pressure on Landmark and Elders to pass through cost savings 
to end consumers. However, when the ACCC investigated the procurement cost 
advantages enjoyed by the large retail chains, it did not find that these 
advantages were substantial.  
Buyer power 
42. A key issue in the ACCC’s review was whether the proposed acquisition would 
significantly increase the merged firm’s market power in the acquisition of rural 
merchandise products. If this were the case, then the proposed acquisition may 
substantially lessen competition in the acquisition of particular rural merchandise 
products resulting in lower prices to the manufacturers/importers of those 
products.  
                                                 
1 This excludes large and medium sized chains such as Landmark, Ruralco, Elders, Delta Ag, Murray Goulburn 
Trading, and other chains who predominantly self-supply and do not buy through a wholesaler. 


 
Page 8 of 16 
43. A combined Landmark/Ruralco would be a very large buyer of some products, 
and this may give it additional bargaining power with manufacturers/importers.  
However, the ACCC found that any such impacts on manufacturer/importers 
would not amount to a substantial lessening of competition. 
44. First, a large proportion (by volume) of products sold by rural merchandise stores 
are imported products or products that, if not imported, are globally traded 
commodity type products. For these products, a combined Landmark/Ruralco 
will still be a very small proportion of global demand.  
45. Second, some products sold by rural merchandise retailers are also sold by 
other stores including hardware stores, vet supply stores and building supply 
stores. For those products, the manufacturer/importers are likely to have 
sufficient remaining routes to markets.  
46. However, there are some products which are either manufactured in Australia or 
imported by Australian companies, for which the rural merchandise supply 
chains are the main supply channel. A small number of these suppliers reported 
that a combined Landmark/Ruralco would constitute a large proportion of their 
sales. However, on balance, the ACCC considered that these effects would not 
amount to a substantial lessening of competition. 
Barriers to entry 
47. Barriers to entry on a small scale for new rural merchandise retailers do not 
appear to be especially high. It is not uncommon for managers of stores owned 
by large chains to leave and establish their own business independently.  
48. There are also a number of mid-sized retail chains who have the potential to 
expand and further constrain Landmark.  
Competition analysis – local retail markets 
49. The ACCC analysed the local areas where:  
 
a Landmark corporate store overlaps with a Ruralco corporate store, and  
 
a corporate store of one party overlaps with a member store of the other 
party. 
50. The ACCC engaged with market participants in many local areas, including 
farmers, rural merchandise retailers and specialist retailers.  
51. The factors we took into account in our assessment of the local overlap areas 
included: 
 
the number of competing general rural merchandise retailers that would 
remain in each area 
 
the extent of competition from retailers located further afield. For 
example, delivery of rural merchandise from outside of local areas 
provides some competitive constraint, particularly in remote areas. 
However, it will not always be a suitable alternative, particularly when 
products are required urgently 


 
Page 9 of 16 
 
the presence of speciality retailers, who may provide some competition, 
and 
 
that barriers for the new entry of rural merchandise retail stores did not 
appear to be especially high. 
52. The ACCC considered that the removal of Ruralco as a competitor was likely to 
lead to a substantial lessening of competition in Broome, Alice Springs and 
Hughenden:  
 
In Broome, the acquisition would reduce the number of rural merchandise 
retailers from two to one (although a number of water and irrigation 
equipment specialist retailers would remain).  The region is very remote, 
with the next closest rural merchandise retailer located in Derby, 
approximately 200km away.  
 
In Alice Springs, which is also a remote region, the acquisition would 
reduce the number of rural merchandise retailers from three to two 
(although a number of specialist retailers providing water infrastructure 
products and stock feed would remain).   
 
In Hughenden, located nearly 400km west of Townsville, the proposed 
acquisition would reduce the number of rural merchandise retailers from 
three to two (again, some specialist retailers would remain). 
53. The ACCC therefore accepted the divestments proposed by Nutrien in these 
three local areas, and considered these would resolve its competition concerns 
in these areas. 
54. The ACCC considered that a substantial lessening of competition was not likely 
in the other local areas where Landmark and Ruralco overlap, as there would 
remain sufficient competitors to constrain the combined Landmark-Ruralco post-
acquisition. 
Competition analysis – wholesale supply of rural 
merchandise 
Horizontal effects 
55. The ACCC considered the impact of the proposed acquisition on the wholesale 
supply of rural merchandise, and whether the proposed acquisition was likely to 
lead to increased prices or decreased service levels in rural merchandise 
wholesaling.  
56. The ACCC understands that the proposed acquisition would reduce the number 
of major wholesale suppliers (including buying groups) from five to four, and 
Landmark would be the wholesaler to approximately a third of independent 
stores nationally.  
57. Ruralco (through CRT) is a major rural merchandise wholesaler to independents 
and the CRT brand has strong recognition. By contrast, Landmark has 
historically focussed more on its retail business. Market feedback and other 


 
Page 10 of 16 
information available to the ACCC did not indicate that Landmark and CRT are 
especially close competitors at the wholesale level.  
Alternative wholesalers 
58. The major competing wholesalers/buying groups are AIRR, NRI and AgLink. 
There are some differences between business models, which may affect their 
suitability for certain retailers. AIRR is a major wholesaler with a significant 
market share that supplies many small retailers as well as some larger ones. 
AgLink appears to primarily supply retail chains rather than standalone stores, 
and the ACCC understands that NRI does not purchase products on behalf of its 
members, who need to maintain direct accounts with each supplier.  
59. Market participants confirmed that although most independent stores have a 
primary wholesaler, many stores also acquire rural merchandise from alternate 
wholesalers. For example, a Landmark member may purchase additional 
products from AIRR. 
Ability of independent stores to purchase direct from manufacturer/importers 
60. For the majority of independents, purchasing direct from manufacturer/importers 
appears to be a partial but not complete substitute to purchasing from 
wholesalers. Stores tend to purchase direct from manufacturer/importers on 
certain product lines, for example where they require large volumes (eg a whole 
pallet) or the manufacturer/importer is offering a better price than the wholesaler. 
Larger retail chains are more likely to purchase a greater proportion of products 
directly from the manufacturer/importer. Nevertheless, there are circumstances 
where manufacturer/importers are unwilling to deal directly with smaller retailers, 
for example they may prefer dealing with a single account (the wholesaler’s 
account) and having a guarantee of payment from the wholesaler. 
Barriers to entry for new wholesalers 
61. The ACCC considered the potential for entry by new rural merchandise 
wholesalers or buying groups.  
62. Requirements for a new rural merchandise wholesale/buying group business are 
likely to include:  
 
establishing supply arrangements with a range of manufacturers,  
 
(potentially) establishing professional connections with industry experts to 
organise training and networking conferences, and  
 
(potentially) developing distribution networks and warehousing facilities 
(at least for those wholesalers who wish to supply smaller stores).  
63. The ACCC understands that it may not be essential for wholesalers/buying 
groups to have a substantial distribution network as a substantial proportion of 
products are delivered direct from the manufacturer’s facilities to individual 
stores or the end customer farmer. 
64. However, the development of warehousing facilities may be necessary to supply 
smaller stores, due to the smaller quantities of rural merchandise that smaller 
stores purchase, and this is likely to be capital intensive. 


 
Page 11 of 16 
Conclusion on horizontal effects 
65. The ACCC concluded that the proposed acquisition was unlikely to lead to a 
substantial lessening of competition at the wholesale level. Key relevant factors 
to this decision included: 
 
Landmark and Ruralco did not appear to be especially close competitors 
at the wholesale level. Landmark’s wholesale business is relatively small. 
Few independent stores mentioned Landmark and Ruralco as their first 
and second options for wholesale supply.  
 
AIRR is a significant competitor to a combined Landmark/Ruralco and its 
potential acquisition by Elders does not seem likely to change this. NRI 
and AgLink also provide wholesale competition for some stores (but are 
not viable options for all stores).  
 
Buying direct from manufacturer/importers or from speciality wholesalers 
may enable some stores to reduce their reliance on full line wholesalers, 
although this is not likely to be a substantial constraint on a combined 
Landmark/Ruralco.  
Vertical competition concerns  
66. The ACCC also considered potential vertical competition issues that could arise 
from the proposed acquisition. Some market participants suggested that, 
following the proposed acquisition, Landmark may not provide wholesale supply 
of rural merchandise on competitive terms to independently owned stores. In 
particular, some market participants raised concerns that in local areas where 
there is also a Landmark corporate store, Landmark may have the incentive to 
favour its corporate stores over CRT member stores. The same concern could 
apply to Landmark member stores in areas where there is currently a Ruralco 
corporate store.  
67. It would be rational for Landmark to discriminate against independently owned 
stores if this would increase overall profits for Landmark. Whether discrimination 
would be profitable depends on factors including the ability of the independently 
owned store to switch to another wholesaler and the number of retail competitors 
in a local area (and how closely they compete with the Landmark corporate store 
and the independently owned store).  
68. As explained above, the ACCC found that independently owned stores are 
generally able to switch to another wholesaler. Further, in most areas where the 
parties’ corporate and member stores overlapped there were a number of other 
retail competitors in the local area.  Accordingly, any attempt by a combined 
Landmark/Ruralco to broadly engage in foreclosure is likely to be rendered 
unprofitable by those members leaving or reducing their purchases, with no 
guarantee that the lost wholesale sales would be recouped at the retail level.  


 
Page 12 of 16 
Competition analysis – wool broking, livestock agency and 
other rural services 
69. The ACCC considered the effect of the proposed acquisition on competition in 
wool broking and livestock agency, as well as insurance broking, real estate 
agency and water broking. 
Wool broking 
70. The ACCC considered that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to substantially 
lessen competition in the supply of wool broking services. The ACCC outlined its 
analysis of the proposed acquisition in relation to the wool broking market in the 
Statement of Issues, available on the public register. The key aspects of the 
analysis are set out below. 
71. The ACCC understands that, based on 2018 data, the six largest wool brokers in 
the Western region (Western Australia) are:  
 
Landmark (~23% market share)  
 
Ruralco (~23% market share)  
 
Elders (~18% market share)  
 
Dyson Jones (~14% market share)  
 
West Coast Wool (~12% market share)  
 
Wool Agency (~9% market share)  
72. Together, these six wool brokers hold approximately 98 per cent market share of 
wool sold by auction.  
73. The six largest wool brokers in the Southern region (Tasmania, Victoria, South 
Australia, parts of New South Wales) are:  
 
Elders (~24% market share)  
 
Landmark (~19% market share)  
 
Ruralco (~12% market share)  
 
Quality Wool (~12% market share)  
 
Australian Wool Network (~11% market share)  
 
Fox & Lillie Rural (~10% market share)  
74. Together, these six wool brokers hold approximately 88 per cent market share of 
wool sold by auction. The remaining 12 per cent market share is held by 13 wool 
brokers. These small brokers individually hold no more than 2 per cent market 
share.  


 
Page 13 of 16 
75. Notwithstanding Landmark and Ruralco’s high market shares, particularly in the 
Western region, the ACCC considered that other wool brokers are likely to 
continue to place competitive pressure on combined Landmark-Ruralco wool 
broking operations in the Western and Southern regions. Wool producers 
generally indicated that there were a number of wool brokers available to them in 
their region.  
76. Market inquiries indicated that the six wool brokers listed for each of the Western 
and Southern regions above provide comparable levels of service at comparable 
rates.  
77. Market participants also indicated that the smaller wool brokers (those with 2 per 
cent market share or less) are generally able to compete effectively with larger 
ones. Market inquiries indicated that small wool broking operations are viable 
without owning their own storage facilities, logistics infrastructure or invoicing 
systems. Smaller wool brokers are able to provide the essential services of a 
wool broker such as quoting an expected price, marketing and selling wool at 
auction, whilst paying to use the back end infrastructure of larger wool brokers or 
specialist wool handlers such as AWH. These smaller wool brokers pass on the 
storage and handling costs to the producer.  
78. Some wool producers indicated a preference for larger brokers who have 
established relationships with primarily international buyers. However, producers 
generally considered that there are large brokers other than Landmark and 
Ruralco, or that smaller brokers were a suitable alternative in their area.  
79. The ACCC considered that barriers to initial entry for wool brokers may not be 
especially high, and barriers to farmers switching to new wool brokers are 
generally low.  
Livestock agency 
80. The ACCC considered that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to substantially 
lessen competition in the supply of livestock agency services. The ACCC 
outlined its analysis of the proposed acquisition in relation to the livestock 
agency market in the Statement of Issues, available on the ACCC public 
register.2 The key aspects of the analysis are set out below. 
81. The parties provide livestock agency services across Australia, with the parties’ 
agents often being based at a local rural merchandise branch.  
82. Landmark, Ruralco, Elders and Ray White Rural and Livestock provide livestock 
agency services across all states and territories. In addition, there are large 
livestock agencies that have a significant presence at the state or regional level 
including Forbes Livestock & Agency Co (NSW), Delta Agribusiness (NSW), HF 
Richardson (Victoria), S&C Livestock (WA) and Westcoast Livestock (WA).  
83. The ACCC understands that Landmark’s share of livestock sales post-
acquisition would be modest.  
84. Market inquiries indicated that there are suitable alternatives in the provision of 
livestock agency services to the parties in each region where they overlap.  
                                                 
2 https://www.accc.gov.au/public-registers/mergers-registers/public-informal-merger-reviews 


 
Page 14 of 16 
85. Market inquiries indicated that in certain remote areas, including Broome and 
Alice Springs, the choice of livestock agents with a local presence would be 
limited after the proposed acquisition. However, market feedback indicated that 
livestock agents will travel to service clients in remote areas where they don’t 
have a permanent presence if there is sufficient demand (for example, a 
livestock agent servicing northern Queensland also services cattle producers 
across the Northern Territory and agents located close to Perth have clients in 
the Broome region).  
86. Some livestock producers indicated a preference for using larger agent 
companies which have established relationships with buyers. However, 
producers generally considered smaller or independent agents are a suitable 
alternative. Further, it is not necessary for an agent to have an established 
logistics business as producers typically use the logistics networks of third 
parties. Agents may assist producers in organising logistics via a third party.  
87. The ACCC also considered the threat of entry or expansion may impose some 
competitive constraint on Landmark post-acquisition as the largest barrier to 
entry for livestock agents is establishing relationships with livestock producers. 
The ACCC understands agents may switch from one company to another or to 
commence their own operations with minimal outlay of capital. Producers tend to 
follow their livestock agent and are willing to use the services of independent 
livestock agents or smaller livestock agent companies.  
88. In some areas, saleyards are privately owned by one or a combination of 
livestock agency businesses, such as Landmark or Ruralco. The ACCC 
understands that these saleyards generally do not allow access to livestock 
agents not affiliated with the businesses that own the saleyards. However, this 
appears to be an existing feature of the market. In most regions, there are 
saleyards owned by councils or independent third party operators, which are 
accessible to all agents by payment of a fee.  
89. Some market participants also raised concerns about consolidation in the 
ownership of Auctions Plus. The ACCC did not consider that the removal of 
Ruralco as a third shareholder and increase in Landmark’s shareholding raises 
significant competition issues.  
90. The ACCC also considered the parties’ overlap in live export, and considered 
that there is likely to be sufficient constraint from remaining competitors in the 
live export market. 
Other rural services including insurance broking, real estate agency and water broking 
91. The ACCC considered the proposed acquisition is unlikely to substantially lessen 
competition in the supply of insurance broking, real estate agency or water 
broking services.  
92. In relation to water broking and trading services, the ACCC understands that 
there is extremely limited overlap between the parties, because Landmark only 
has a single water broker who operates in the Goulburn Valley, Victoria.  
93. In relation to the supply of real estate agency and insurance broking services, 
Landmark will have a relatively small market share post-acquisition and there 
appears to be a range of remaining competitors including large national 


 
Page 15 of 16 
agents/brokers and independent agents or brokers to constrain Landmark post-
acquisition.  
Undertakings 
94. In order to address the ACCC’s competition concerns in relation to Alice Springs, 
Broome and Hughenden, Nutrien provided a court enforceable undertaking 
pursuant to section 87B of the Act to divest its retail rural merchandise stores 
and related assets and personnel in Alice Springs, Broome and Hughenden. The 
stores must be divested within a specified period to a purchaser or purchasers to 
be approved by the ACCC.  
95. The ACCC spoke to a range of market participants including retailers operating 
in the same local areas as the proposed divestiture businesses, customers in 
local areas, and a broader range of competitors (who may also be potential 
purchasers of the divestiture businesses). The ACCC concluded that Nutrien’s 
proposed divestitures addressed its competition concerns in these areas. 
96. A brief summary of the undertakings offered by Nutrien is set out below: 
 
Divestiture package – divestiture of three of Nutrien’s businesses located 
in the following locations: 
 Alice Springs, Northern Territory; 
 Broome, Western Australia; and 
 Hughenden, Queensland. 
Divestiture will include, all fixed assets, inventory, records, employees and 
applicable licences. 
 
Sale of the land, and lease of the land – divestiture will include the sale of 
the properties owned by Nutrien in Broome and Hughenden, and the 
transfer or assignment of the leased property in Alice Springs 
 
Purchaser approval – the ACCC must approve the proposed purchaser or 
purchasers. 
 
Independent auditor – Nutrien must appoint an ACCC approved 
independent auditor to monitor Nutrien’s overall compliance with the 
undertaking. 
 
Independent manager – Nutrien must appoint one or more ACCC 
approved Independent Managers to manage the divestiture businesses 
from completion of the proposed acquisition until the divestiture businesses 
are sold to the approved purchaser/s. 
 
Transfer of all consents – this will include the transfer of any government or 
third party consents. For example, agency agreements relevant to the 
divestiture businesses. 


 
Page 16 of 16 
 
Transfer of transferred personnel – the undertaking provides for the 
transfer of all employees and service providers under a contract at the 
divestiture businesses (who consent to the transfer or their employment or 
contract of service). The undertaking also provides that Nutrien must not 
attempt to poach those employees back for at least 24 months. 
 
Compliance with any approved transitional technical assistance and/or 
transitional supply agreements – if required by the approved purchaser/s 
Nutrien must supply any technical assistance and/or any goods or services 
on a transitional basis, in order for the approved purchaser/s to be 
established as a viable, effective, stand-alone, independent and long-term 
competitor/s in the retail supply of rural merchandise in the relevant local 
market. 
97. A copy of the undertaking is available on the ACCC mergers register and 
undertakings register. 
Conclusion 
98. Based on the above analysis, the ACCC concluded that the proposed acquisition 
of Ruralco by Nutrien, taking into account the undertaking, would not be likely to 
have the effect of substantially lessening competition in any market in Australia. 
