 
 
 
Land of the Ngunnawal people
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
Tel 02 6243 1111 
Fax 02 6243 1199
www.accc.gov.au
Our ref: 
IM-72807 
 
13 May 2025 
Dear Interested Party, 
Re: ACCC seeking your views: Igneo’s proposed acquisition of Benedict Recycling  
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
the proposed acquisition of Benedict Recycling Pty Ltd (Benedict Recycling) by IWS Group 
Asset Co Pty Ltd as trustee of the IWS Group Asset Trust (IWS), an entity managed by 
Igneo Infrastructure Partners (Igneo) (the proposed acquisition). 
IWS, through its subsidiaries, provides waste management services in New South Wales, 
South Australia and Western Australia. Benedict Recycling is a waste management 
company that operates various waste management, greenfield and landfill sites in greater 
Sydney, Newcastle and NSW Central Coast. Further details are provided at Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact on competition. In particular, we are 
seeking your views on whether the proposed acquisition would likely: 
• 
reduce competition for waste collection and processing services, including 
specifically building and demolition (B&D) waste services, to customers in Newcastle 
and/or the Hunter Valley Region of NSW; and 
• 
lead to higher prices and/or lower service quality of waste collection and processing 
services in Newcastle and/or the Hunter Valley Region of NSW. 
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B. 
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market.  
Please provide your response by 28 May 2025 via email to mergers@accc.gov.au with the 
title: Submission re: Igneo / Benedict Recycling. If you require more time to respond, please 
let us know. 
If you would like to arrange a time to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any 
questions about this letter, please contact mergers@accc.gov.au. 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public Mergers 
Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
 
 


 
 
 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We will not 
disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by 
law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or during court proceedings) or in 
accordance with s155AAA of the CCA. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where possible so that you may have an 
opportunity to be heard. Therefore, if the information provided to the ACCC is of a 
confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our Informal Merger Review Process 
Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality 
 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
Morag Bond 
General Manager  
Merger Investigations 


 
 
 
Attachment A 
 
The acquirer – Igneo 
Igneo is an infrastructure asset management business and part of the First Sentier Investors 
Group. Igneo provides waste management services through IWS, which is ultimately owned 
by the First Sentier Investors (Australia) RE Ltd as trustee for Global Diversified 
Infrastructure Fund (Active) (GDIF). GDIF is managed by entities forming part of Igneo. IWS 
also owns Recycle Central Group (Recycle Central) and Eco Resources Group. 
IWS (and its subsidiaries) provide a range of waste management services including resource 
recovery, commercial composting, and disposal. IWS operates in Western Australia (through 
Eco Resources Group), South Australia and NSW (through Recycle Central). 
Recycle Central is a subsidiary of IWS and is responsible for all IWS operations in 
Newcastle. Recycle Central’s services include waste collection, processing and recovery of 
B&D, and commercial and industrial (C&I) waste. Recycle Central operates two waste 
processing facilities in the Newcastle and Hunter Valley Region: 
• 
the Kurri Kurri waste management station located at 8 Styles Street, Kurri Kurri NSW 
2327 (Kurri Kurri station), and 
• 
the Cardiff waste transfer station located at 3A Pennant Street, Cardiff NSW 2285 
(Cardiff transfer station). The Cardiff transfer station is the only transfer station in 
Newcastle. 
The target – Benedict Recycling 
Benedict Recycling provides landfill, processing and recovery services for B&D, C&I, 
household and green waste across NSW. 
Benedict Recycling operates and/or has an ownership interest in waste management, 
greenfield and landfill sites in Bowral, Chipping Norton, Newcastle, Unanderra, Smeaton 
Grange and Belrose. The Bowral landfill site is not included in the proposed acquisition.  
In Newcastle, Benedict Recycling operates the Newcastle Waste Management Recycling 
Centre, 1A McIntosh Drive, Mayfield West NSW 2304 (Newcastle Recycling Centre). 
Benedict Recycling also has interests in other, currently non-operational sites in NSW, 
including a waste management and recycling centre in Girraween and a greenfield waste 
recycling and transfer centre in Penrith. 
 
 
 


 
 
 
Attachment B 
1) Provide a brief description of your business or organisation. 
2) Outline the reasons for your interest in the proposed acquisition, including any 
commercial relationship(s) with Igneo (including IWS and Recycle Central) or Benedict 
Recycling.  
3) Describe how closely Recycle Central and Benedict Recycling compete. Include a 
description of the services in which they compete. 
4) Identify the main competitors to Recycle Central and/or Benedict Recycling in the supply 
of B&D waste processing services. 
The questions below are divided into questions for customers and competitors, but you are 
welcome to comment on any question/s in any category. 
Questions for customers 
5) Identify and describe:  
a)  the types of B&D waste management services you use, and whether you require 
waste collection in addition to waste processing services 
b)  the waste processing facilities at which you currently deposit waste in the Newcastle 
and/or Hunter Valley Region 
c)  the volume of waste you deposit at each processing facility annually and the price 
you are charged to do so, describing the relevant waste type and service, and 
d)  how you obtain these services (i.e. via a competitive tender, on an ad hoc basis, or 
through other processes) and if applicable, describe existing contractual 
arrangements (e.g. term of contract). 
6) For each of the waste management services that you procure in the Newcastle and/or 
Hunter Valley Region, identify the alternative suppliers capable of servicing your 
organisation’s needs, including any differences in what they can offer with regard to 
pricing, service, quality and geographic location. 
7) Identify the furthest distance you would transport B&D waste for processing. 
8) Outline the key factors you consider when choosing a waste processing facility in the 
Newcastle and/or Hunter Valley Region (such as price, location, service (e.g. opening 
hours)) 
9) Describe the extent to which you could switch between waste processing facilities in 
response to a price increase and/or decrease in service levels. 
Questions for competitors  
10) Identify and describe the types of waste management services you offer in the Newcastle 
and/or Hunter Valley Region.  
11) If you operate a B&D waste processing facility within the Newcastle and/or Hunter region, 
please provide: 
a)  the volume of B&D waste you received in the last financial year 


 
 
 
b)  the annual operating capacity of each waste processing facility, and  
c)  whether the facility is classed as a transfer station. 
12) List your closest competitors. Please indicate whether you compete for your customers 
via competitive tenders and/or individual price negotiations, and what factors you 
compete on beyond pricing. 
13) If you supply waste collection services in Newcastle and/or the Hunter Valley Region, 
please list the key geographical areas where this waste is collected.  
14) Outline the process, cost and time involved in establishing different types of new waste 
management facilities (e.g. transfer station, processing facility) in Newcastle and/or the 
Hunter Valley Region, including regulatory requirements such as licences and 
environmental approvals. 
Other  
15) Provide any additional information or comments that you consider relevant to the ACCC’s 
consideration of the proposed acquisition. 
 
