Igneo Infrastructure Partners’ proposed acquisition of Benedict Recycling Pty Ltd   
Page 1 of 17  
  
Statement of Issues  
11 September 2025  
Igneo Infrastructure Partners’ proposed 
acquisition of Benedict Recycling Pty Ltd   
Purpose  
1. Igneo Infrastructure Partners (Igneo) proposes (through subsidiaries of First Sentier 
Investors (Australia) RE Ltd in its capacity as trustee of the Global Diversified 
Infrastructure Fund (Active)) to acquire a 100% interest in Benedict Recycling Pty 
Ltd (Benedict) (together, the Parties) (the Proposed Acquisition).  
2. This Statement of Issues:  
a. gives the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission’s (ACCC) 
preliminary views on competition issues arising from the Proposed 
Acquisition,  
b. identifies areas of further inquiry, and  
c. invites interested parties to submit comments and information to assist our 
assessment of the issues.  
3. Statements of Issues do not refer to confidential information provided by the parties 
or other market participants and therefore may not fully articulate the ACCC’s 
preliminary position.  
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views  
4. In considering the Proposed Acquisition, the ACCC applies the legal test set out in 
section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the CCA). In general terms, 
section 50 prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to have the 
effect, of substantially lessening competition in any market.  
5. The ACCC divides its preliminary views into 3 categories: ‘issues of concern’, ‘issues 
that may raise concerns’ and ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’. In this Statement of 
Issues there is one ‘issue of concern’ and one ‘issue that may raise concerns’.   


Igneo Infrastructure Partners’ proposed acquisition of Benedict Recycling Pty Ltd   
Page 2 of 17  
Issue of concern – unilateral effects in the supply of mixed building and demolition waste 
processing services 
6. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the Proposed Acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in the supply of mixed building and demolition 
(B&D) waste processing services in the Newcastle region of New South Wales by 
removing Integrated Waste Services’ (IWS)1 closest competitor in the supply of 
mixed B&D waste processing services. The ACCC is concerned that remaining 
suppliers of mixed B&D waste processing services would be unlikely to provide a 
sufficient constraint on IWS post-acquisition. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that 
landfill operations (which accept mixed B&D waste) in the Newcastle region are not 
an effective substitute for B&D waste processing given reportedly higher costs to 
collection companies associated with landfill disposal and preferences to divert 
recoverable material from landfill when possible. The ACCC is concerned the 
Proposed Acquisition would be likely to result in higher prices and/or reduced 
service levels for customers of mixed B&D waste processing services.   
Issue that may raise concerns – vertical effects in the supply of B&D waste collection 
services 
7. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the Proposed Acquisition may substantially 
lessen competition in the supply of B&D waste collection services in the Newcastle 
region by foreclosing rival collection companies’ access to waste processing 
services. IWS is vertically integrated in B&D waste collections. Rival B&D waste 
collection companies require access to mixed B&D processing facilities to remain 
competitive. The ACCC has preliminary concerns that following the Proposed 
Acquisition, IWS may have the ability and incentive to foreclose rival B&D waste 
collectors by increasing prices and/or reducing the service levels offered to rival 
collectors.  
Making a submission  
8. The ACCC invites submissions from interested parties on the issues identified in this 
Statement of Issues.  
9. Interested parties should provide submissions by 5pm AEST on 25 September 2025.  
10. Responses may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: Submission re: 
Igneo/Benedict. If you would like to discuss the matter with ACCC staff or have any 
questions about this Statement of Issues, please email mergers@accc.gov.au.   
11. The ACCC anticipates making a final decision on 20 November 2025, however, this 
timeline can change. To keep up with possible timing changes and to find relevant 
documents, interested parties should visit the Mergers Register on the ACCC's 
website: https://www.accc.gov.au/public-registers/mergers-and-acquisitions-
registers/public-informal-merger-reviews-register/igneo-infrastructure-partners-
benedict-recycling-pty-ltd.  
 
1  IWS is a waste management company wholly owned by Igneo (see paragraph 23).  


Igneo Infrastructure Partners’ proposed acquisition of Benedict Recycling Pty Ltd   
Page 3 of 17  
Confidentiality of submissions  
12. The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the Proposed Acquisition. The 
ACCC will not disclose submissions to third parties (except its advisors/consultants) 
unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or 
during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the CCA. Where the 
ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, the ACCC will notify you in 
advance where possible so that you may have an opportunity to be heard. Therefore, 
please identify any confidential information that is provided to the ACCC. The ACCC’s 
Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on 
confidentiality.  
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’  
13. A Statement of Issues is not a final decision about a proposed acquisition. A 
Statement of Issues outlines the ACCC’s preliminary views and identifies further 
lines of inquiry.  
14. A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
purchasers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide the 
merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary.  
Industry background  
Types of waste 
15. Waste streams can be categorised in 3 ways: 
a. B&D waste is non-putrescible (meaning it contains primarily non-organic 
materials) waste that results from the demolition or construction of 
buildings, civil projects and infrastructure development. For the purposes of 
this Statement of Issues and unless otherwise stated, mixed B&D waste 
refers to unsegregated (i.e. ‘mixed’) non-hazardous materials and includes 
‘light’ (e.g. cardboard, paper, plastics and plasterboard) and ‘heavy’ (e.g. 
bricks, concrete, timber and soils) materials.  
The ACCC understands that waste management facilities charge third 
parties a higher rate to deposit mixed B&D waste than the rate for sorted 
materials, because:  
i. Sorting mixed B&D waste for further processing of recovered 
materials is a capital- and labour-intensive process.  
ii. Unlike sorted materials, mixed B&D waste can contain both 
recoverable and unrecoverable materials, so facilities must pass on 
the cost of disposing of any unrecoverable materials.  
b. Commercial and Industrial (C&I) waste is generated from commercial 
buildings and businesses, government facilities, educational institutions and 


Igneo Infrastructure Partners’ proposed acquisition of Benedict Recycling Pty Ltd   
Page 4 of 17  
industrial sites. C&I waste is generally a mixture of putrescible (e.g. food 
waste) and non-putrescible materials, however these 2 broad waste types are 
typically collected in separate bins to segregate recyclable materials. 
Processing of C&I waste involves sorting the non-putrescible collected 
waste, with a focus on recovering recyclable materials like paper, cardboard, 
plastics, and organics.  
c. Municipal waste is putrescible and non-putrescible waste collected from 
households through kerbside collection, typically in separate bin types. 
16. In this matter, the ACCC’s concerns relate to mixed B&D waste (see paragraph 34 
below).   
The B&D waste management supply chain 
17. There are multiple activities conducted by participants in the B&D waste 
management supply chain. The key levels of the supply chain are: 
a. Production: B&D waste producers are typically operators of construction or 
demolition sites. Some producers may sort their waste by material type prior 
to collection or processing, but most do not.  
b. Collection: Waste producers typically engage waste collectors that supply 
skip bins and operate trucks to collect mixed and sorted B&D waste. These 
trucks are fitted to drop and collect skip bins. Collections companies will 
either dispose of B&D waste at a transfer station or waste processing facility 
that is capable of and licensed to accept and process the waste, or they will 
take it directly to landfill.  
c. Transfer stations: Typically located close to urban centres, transfer stations 
serve as collection points for a processing facility or landfill located further 
away. Waste is typically transported directly from transfer stations to the 
waste processing facility or landfill site without being sorted, however 
minimal sorting may occur at some transfer stations. 
d. Waste processing facilities: Facilities that sort and recover commodities 
from B&D waste that can be recycled or reused. Some B&D waste processing 
facilities only accept sorted material-specific B&D waste (such as concrete), 
while others accept mixed B&D waste. Those that accept mixed B&D waste 
use a combination of heavy machinery and manual sorting to sort waste into 
materials that can then be processed on site and on-sold as a recycled 
product to end customers or taken to a material-specific processor. After 
processing, residual materials are taken to landfill. The ability of a facility to 
accept mixed B&D waste is determined by factors including regulatory 
approvals (e.g. Environmental Protection Authority (EPA) licensing and local 
council requirements), processing capability (such as the equipment and 
expertise required) and capacity to process and/or store the material. 
e. Landfill: Landfills are final disposal sites for different categories of waste. 
Unlike transfer stations and waste processing facilities, landfills also accept 


Igneo Infrastructure Partners’ proposed acquisition of Benedict Recycling Pty Ltd   
Page 5 of 17  
restricted or hazardous waste such as asbestos. Landfills accept 
unrecoverable waste from processing facilities. In some circumstances, 
collectors may also dispose of B&D waste directly at a landfill.  
Figure 1: The B&D waste management supply chain2 
 
Waste policy in New South Wales 
18. In 2023-24, 80% of B&D waste in New South Wales was recycled.3 One factor driving 
this high recycling rate is the waste levy. As is the case in most states and territories 
in Australia, waste deposited in NSW landfills attracts a levy, designed to make 
resource recovery a relatively more attractive option by increasing the cost of 
disposing material at landfill. In 2025-26, the waste levy in metropolitan areas 
(including Newcastle) is $174.20 per tonne and increases by a rate equivalent to CPI 
each year. 
19. In 2024, the NSW Government commenced a review of the waste levy to determine 
how it can drive greater recycling in NSW. As of August 2025, the review is still 
underway.   
20. Waste deposited at a waste processing facility is not subject to the waste levy. 
However, given waste processing facilities take residual (unrecoverable) materials to 
landfills, any increase to the waste levy would increase any landfill costs incurred by 
those processing facilities. 
The Proposed Acquisition and the Parties   
21. Igneo proposes to acquire a 100% interest in Benedict.  
 
2  
Prepared by the ACCC based on publicly available information 
3  
NSW EPA, NSW waste and recycling performance data: 2023–24 financial year, accessed 26 August 2025. Note: B&D 
waste is referred to as ‘construction and demolition’ waste. B&D waste (80%) has a significantly higher rate of recovery 
than municipal solid waste (48%) and C&I waste (50%). 


Igneo Infrastructure Partners’ proposed acquisition of Benedict Recycling Pty Ltd   
Page 6 of 17  
The acquirer: Igneo 
22. Igneo is the unlisted infrastructure asset management business of the First Sentier 
Investors Group, an Australian asset manager with more than A$222 billion in funds 
under management (as of 30 June 2024). First Sentier Investors Group is ultimately 
owned by Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group.  
23. Igneo manages an infrastructure fund that owns IWS, a waste management 
business, with operations in Western Australia, South Australia, and the Newcastle 
and Hunter Valley regions of New South Wales.  
24. In the Newcastle region, IWS operates through its Recycle Central Group (Recycle 
Central) division, which supplies waste collections, and processing and recovery 
services for B&D and C&I waste. Recycle Central operates 2 processing facilities in 
the Newcastle region:  
a. the Central Waste Station with a licensed capacity of 90,000 tonnes of non-
putrescible waste per annum, located in Kurri Kurri, 38 km from the 
Newcastle CBD (Kurri Kurri Facility); and 
b. Central Waste Transfer Station with a licensed capacity of 99,800 tonnes of 
non-putrescible waste per annum, located in Cardiff (in central Newcastle) 
(the Cardiff Transfer Station).  
25. IWS is also developing a waste transfer station in Muswellbrook in the Upper Hunter, 
which will transfer waste to the Kurri Kurri Facility for further processing.   
26. In addition to its waste processing services, IWS offers collection services in the 
Newcastle region under the brands ‘Central Skips’ and ‘Rent a skip’.  
27. Separate to the Proposed Acquisition, Igneo has also recently acquired 100% of the 
shares in Three Mile Hill Pty Limited (Three Mile Hill). Three Mile Hill has 
development approval from the Hunter and Central Coast Regional Planning Panel to 
repurpose an existing quarry in Black Hill (17 km west of the Newcastle CBD) into a 
waste management facility. The facility would receive up to 225,000 tonnes of non-
putrescible waste (including B&D and C&I waste) per year4, which would involve 
using the quarry void as a landfill for non-putrescible waste and development of a 
resource recovery area on-site. The ACCC understands that plans for the waste 
management facility are yet to be finalised by Igneo.  
The target: Benedict 
28. Benedict provides processing and recovery services for B&D, C&I, household and 
green waste across Greater Sydney (Chipping Norton, Smeaton Grange and Belrose), 
Bowral, Unanderra and Newcastle.  
29. In the Newcastle region, Benedict operates a processing facility in Mayfield West, 
close to the centre of Newcastle (the Newcastle Recycling Centre). The Newcastle 
 
4  
NSW Government Planning Portal, Waste and resource management facilities, accessed 3 September 2025. 


Igneo Infrastructure Partners’ proposed acquisition of Benedict Recycling Pty Ltd   
Page 7 of 17  
Recycling Centre is licensed to accept 315,000 tonnes of non-putrescible waste per 
annum. 
30. Benedict does not operate a collections business.  
Other industry participants  
B&D waste collection services 
31. There are numerous businesses that supply B&D waste collection services (skip hire 
and collection) in the Newcastle region. There are approximately 30 providers with 
operations ranging in scale from 2 collection trucks to approximately 20 trucks. 
While there are some larger operations, including vertically integrated businesses 
such as IWS and Skips and Scrap, most B&D waste collections companies in the 
Newcastle region do not own or have interests in B&D waste processing facilities.  
B&D waste processing services  
32. As outlined in Table 1 in this Statement of Issues, a number of B&D waste 
processors operate in the Newcastle region. The ACCC understands that the only 
processor that accepts mixed B&D aside from the Parties is Skips and Scrap, located 
in Tomago. Other processors (including Concrush, Newcastle Recycling Solutions 
and Boral) accept sorted B&D waste only.  
Landfill sites 
33. There are 2 landfill sites in the Newcastle region (Newcastle City Council’s 
Summerhill facility and Veolia’s Raymond Terrace facility) that accept mixed and 
sorted B&D waste. Depositing waste at a landfill site incurs the waste levy, unlike 
depositing waste at a waste processing facility.  
Market definition   
34. The ACCC has not formed a concluded view on the dimensions of the relevant 
product market(s). For the purposes of this Statement of Issues, the ACCC is 
considering the impact of the Proposed Acquisition on the supply of:  
• 
mixed B&D waste processing services; and  
• 
B&D waste collection services 
 
in the Newcastle region of NSW.  
Product dimension – mixed B&D processing services 
35. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that C&I waste processing services are not a 
substitute for mixed B&D waste processing services. The equipment required to sort 
and process mixed B&D waste is different to that of C&I waste. Most C&I waste 
processing facilities in the Newcastle region are unable to accept, sort and process 
mixed B&D waste.   


Igneo Infrastructure Partners’ proposed acquisition of Benedict Recycling Pty Ltd   
Page 8 of 17  
36. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that facilities that accept and process segregated (or 
‘material-specific’) waste are also unlikely to be an effective substitute for mixed 
B&D waste processors. Material-specific processors only accept a limited subset of 
B&D waste types (e.g. separated concrete, brick and tiles, or excavated natural 
materials). Most material-specific processors lack the capability to process mixed 
B&D waste. Suppliers of mixed B&D waste processing services require specialised 
equipment to receive and sort mixed B&D loads. For most producers of B&D waste, 
sorting waste by material type prior to collection or processing is not cost-effective, 
as it requires additional time, space and cost to arrange multiple skips for different 
material types. For this reason, most B&D waste collectors usually require facilities 
capable of accepting mixed B&D waste.  
37. The ACCC is continuing to investigate the extent to which landfill facilities are a 
substitute for mixed B&D waste processors in the Newcastle region. The ACCC 
recognises that landfills and B&D waste processing facilities do perform a similar 
role, in the service they provide B&D waste collectors (i.e. they are a place to deposit 
waste). Some B&D waste collectors may take mixed B&D waste to a landfill facility if 
the load is contaminated with a hazardous material (e.g. asbestos), or there is a low 
proportion of recoverable material in the load. The ACCC understands much of the 
B&D waste deposited directly at landfill facilities in the Newcastle region comprises 
asbestos or asbestos-contaminated soil (which cannot be deposited at the Parties’ 
B&D waste processing facilities) or excavated soil (which is not a mixed B&D waste 
stream).   
38. However, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that landfills are unlikely to provide a 
material constraint on processors of mixed B&D waste in the Newcastle region. As 
outlined in paragraph 18, most B&D waste in New South Wales is recycled. In the 
Newcastle region, a large share of mixed B&D waste is deposited at the Parties’ 
processing facilities rather than deposited directly at landfills. 
39.  While some landfill operators in Newcastle and B&D waste processors advertise 
similar ‘gate prices’ for B&D waste disposal, the ACCC understands that mixed B&D 
waste processors in Newcastle offer material discounts off their advertised gate 
prices to skip bin collection companies that regularly use their services, reducing the 
actual price that many collectors of mixed B&D waste pay. The ACCC understands 
some landfills in the Newcastle region also offer discounts and is investigating the 
extent to which and the effective price incurred by customers could be comparable 
with the effective price incurred when the mixed B&D waste is processed at the 
Parties’ processing facilities.    
40. As outlined in paragraph 17, there are distinct operational differences between 
processors of mixed B&D waste and landfill facilities. Because of these operational 
differences, the costs incurred, and revenue streams generated, by processors and 
landfills differ, as do the prices they typically appear to charge collection companies 
who are seeking to dispose of waste. Processors of mixed B&D waste focus on the 
recovery of materials that can be recycled and sold, in order to minimise the volume 
of residual material that is incapable of recovery and must be taken to landfill for 
disposal at an additional cost. In contrast, landfills typically focus on accepting 
waste for final disposal.   


Igneo Infrastructure Partners’ proposed acquisition of Benedict Recycling Pty Ltd   
Page 9 of 17  
41. Some construction and demolition businesses also seek to minimise waste sent to 
landfill to achieve sustainability targets or a favourable ‘green’ certification for 
construction projects.5  The ACCC understands that some waste producers have a 
strong preference that their waste is deposited at a processing facility instead of a 
landfill, particularly where the load contains a substantial volume of recoverable 
material. The ACCC is continuing to investigate the significance of non-price factors 
to collection companies’ preference to dispose of mixed B&D waste at processing 
facilities in the Newcastle region.  
Product dimension – B&D waste collection services 
42. The ACCC considers B&D waste collection to be in a separate market to B&D waste 
processing. Some firms (like IWS) are vertically integrated across the waste 
management supply chain. However, most B&D waste collectors do not own their 
own processing facilities and rely on access to third-party facilities for processing or 
disposal of B&D waste. 
43. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that B&D waste collection comprises both mixed and 
sorted B&D waste. The equipment and machinery required is the same, regardless of 
whether the skip contains sorted or mixed B&D waste.  
44. The ACCC also considers that C&I waste collection services are not a commercial 
alternative for companies requiring the collection of mixed B&D waste. C&I waste is 
typically stored in different bins to B&D waste and collected using different trucks.  
Geographic dimension – mixed B&D waste processing services 
45. The ACCC has not yet formed a concluded view on the geographic boundaries of the 
market for mixed B&D waste processing. The geographic boundary for this market is 
determined by the distance collectors are willing to travel to dispose of mixed B&D 
waste.  
46. Feedback from market participants indicates that, for collectors looking to deposit 
B&D waste collected from a location in the Newcastle region, it is not commercially 
viable to travel a long distance from the point of collection when there are existing 
B&D waste processing facilities and transfer stations within the region. This is 
because mixed B&D waste collectors typically transport smaller loads (resulting in 
high transport costs per tonne), and because there are opportunity costs associated 
with longer travel (i.e. lost profits from other loads that the truck could be collecting).  
47. More generally, the ACCC understands that the distance a waste collector is willing 
to travel to dispose of waste will depend on various factors, such as: 
a. Load size - collectors of large waste loads may be more willing to travel a 
longer distance than collectors of small loads, because larger loads (such as 
those collected from civil construction sites) generally have lower per-tonne 
transport costs.  
 
5  
Under green certification programs, avoiding landfills contributes to a more favourable green certification. For example: 
Green Building Council Australia, Green Star reporting criteria for C&D waste, accessed 26 August 2025. 


Igneo Infrastructure Partners’ proposed acquisition of Benedict Recycling Pty Ltd   
Page 10 of 17  
b. Waste type - collectors of segregated B&D waste loads may be willing to 
travel further than the collector of a mixed B&D load, because facilities that 
can process a specific waste type often charge a substantially lower rate 
than a facility that can’t.  
48. Information available to the ACCC indicates that most mixed B&D waste deposited 
at IWS’ Cardiff Transfer Station and Benedict’s Newcastle Recycling Centre was 
collected from sites within 30 minutes’ drive of the relevant facility. This is 
consistent with feedback from market participants that waste collectors do not 
typically transport mixed B&D waste loads originating from the Newcastle region to 
locations more than 30 minutes’ drive from the collection site.  
49. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the area6 within 30 minutes’ drive time from the 
Newcastle Recycling Centre is the appropriate relevant geographic market for the 
purposes of assessing the proposed acquisition. However, even if adjusted to a 40-
minute drive time, this would not change the ACCC’s preliminary views regarding the 
likely effect of the Proposed Acquisition on competition. 
Geographic dimension – B&D waste collection services 
50. The ACCC has not yet formed a concluded view on the geographic boundaries of the 
market for mixed B&D waste collection services. The geographic boundary for this 
market is determined by the areas that B&D waste collectors choose to service, 
which depends on factors like travel distance (to drop and collect skip bins), and the 
location of waste facilities where they can dispose of waste.  
51. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the relevant geographic boundary is likely similar 
to that of mixed B&D waste processing services (described above).  
Questions for market participants  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants regarding the markets for the 
collection and processing of B&D waste in the Newcastle region, including views on:  
• 
The extent to which producers and collectors of mixed B&D waste consider 
landfill sites to be an effective substitute for mixed B&D waste processors, 
including in relation to price and non-price factors.  
• 
The extent to which mixed B&D processors compete with material-specific 
processors 
• 
How collection companies make decisions about which waste processor they 
use, including the costs involved of using alternative processors beyond 30 
minutes from the point of collection 
• 
What factors collection companies consider when choosing whether to service 
a particular geographic area or suburb.  
 
 
6  
This geographical area spans most locations within the Newcastle City Council Local Government Area (LGA), and parts of 
the Cessnock City, Lake Macquarie City, Maitland City, and Port Stephens Council LGAs. 


Igneo Infrastructure Partners’ proposed acquisition of Benedict Recycling Pty Ltd   
Page 11 of 17  
Issue of concern: substantial lessening of competition in the 
supply of mixed B&D waste processing services  
52. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the Proposed Acquisition is likely to have the 
effect of substantially lessening competition in the supply of mixed B&D waste 
processing services in the Newcastle region, by removing the close competition 
between IWS and Benedict. This would likely allow the merged firm to increase 
prices or reduce the quality of the service it provides its customers post-acquisition.  
IWS and Benedict are each other’s closest competitors  
53. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that Benedict and IWS are each other’s closest 
competitors in the supply of mixed B&D waste processing services in the Newcastle 
region, based on the following:  
a. The Cardiff Transfer Station and Benedict’s Newcastle Recycling Centre are 
geographically each other’s closest competitor and there is likely to be 
overlap in their respective catchment areas. These 2 facilities are within 30 
minutes’ drive of most locations in the City of Newcastle LGA.  
b. Both Benedict and IWS receive and process a comparable amount of mixed 
B&D waste from third parties, despite Benedict accepting a larger range of 
waste types (including soils and excavated natural materials).  
c. B&D waste collection customers can easily switch between the Benedict and 
IWS facilities, since exclusive or long-term contracts are not commonplace in 
the market. Market feedback suggests that customers regularly consider 
both options.  
54. The ACCC is concerned that removal of the competitive constraint on IWS from 
Benedict would likely result in an increase in prices paid by B&D collectors for 
disposing of mixed B&D waste in the Newcastle region, or a reduction in the quality 
of service received post-acquisition.  
Alternative suppliers of waste processing services appear unlikely to effectively constrain the 
merged entity  
55. The ACCC is concerned that post-acquisition, the merged firm would face limited 
competition for mixed B&D waste processing in the Newcastle region.  
56. The ACCC has identified in Table 1 the waste facilities that accept mixed and sorted 
B&D waste, located within 40 minutes’ drive of Benedict’s Newcastle Recycling 
Centre.   
57. The ACCC understands that Skips and Scrap is currently the only alternative 
processing facility to Benedict and IWS in the Newcastle region that accepts mixed 
B&D waste from third-party waste collectors. Skips and Scrap has a licensed 
capacity of 25,000 tonnes per annum at its original facility, and in 2025 acquired a 


Igneo Infrastructure Partners’ proposed acquisition of Benedict Recycling Pty Ltd   
Page 12 of 17  
second site from Bingo Industries.7 The ACCC understands that Skips and Scrap’s 
capacity across the 2 facilities is significantly below that of IWS and Benedict, and a 
large portion of that capacity is used to process waste from its own collections 
business. Given these capacity constraints, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that Skips 
and Scrap would be unable to sufficiently constrain any attempt by the merged entity 
to increase prices post-acquisition.  
58. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that landfills do not provide an effective constraint on 
the Parties. There are landfills in the Newcastle region that accept non-putrescible 
waste (including the Summerhill Waste Management Centre and Veolia Raymond 
Terrace Resource Recovery Park). However, the ACCC understands collection 
companies in the region have a strong preference to deposit mixed B&D waste at a 
processing facility, rather than directly at landfill, given preferences to divert 
recoverable material from landfill when possible and reportedly higher costs to 
collection companies associated with landfill disposal.  
59. Similarly, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that material-specific processors (some of 
which are listed in Table 1 and shown on a map in Figure 2) are not a constraint on 
the Parties. A large proportion of the B&D waste deposited at the Parties’ facilities is 
mixed and would not be accepted at facilities that only accept segregated waste 
streams.  
 
 
 
7  
Skips and Scrap acquired Bingo Industries’ former site at 29 Laverick Ave, Tomago. While the licensed capacity of the 
recently acquired facility has not yet been confirmed by the NSW EPA as of August 2025, the licence application permits 
the site to hold 500 tonnes at any given time.  


Igneo Infrastructure Partners’ proposed acquisition of Benedict Recycling Pty Ltd   
Page 13 of 17  
Table 1: Waste facilities that accept mixed and sorted B&D waste including the Parties, 
landfill and specialist recyclers within 40 minutes’ drive of Benedict’s Newcastle Recycling 
Centre 
Facility name and owner 
Location 
Capacity8 
Facilities that accept mixed B&D 
 
 
Benedict – Newcastle Recycling Centre 
Mayfield West 
315,000t per annum 
IWS – Central Waste Transfer Station 
Cardiff 
99,800t per annum 
IWS – Central Waste 
Kurri Kurri 
90,000t per annum 
Skips and Scrap 
Tomago (Enterprise Dr) 
25,000t per annum 
Skips and Scrap  
Tomago (Laverick Ave) 
500t at any one time 
Facilities that accept sorted B&D (mostly crushable and excavated natural materials) 
Boral Recycling 
Kooragang 
130,000t per annum 
Newcastle Recycling Solutions 
Mayfield North 
150,000t per annum 
Concrush 
Teralba 
40,000t at any one time 
Buttai Gravel 
Buttai 
100,000t per annum 
Metromix 
Teralba 
37,000t at any one time 
Recycled Concrete Product 
Tomago 
30,000t at any one time 
Landfills 
 
 
Summerhill Waste Management Centre 
Wallsend  
362,000t per annum 
Maitland Resource Recovery Facility 
East Maitland  
100,000t per annum 
Veolia’s Newline Road Engineered Landfill 
Raymond Terrace  
300,000t per annum 
Awaba Waste Management Facility 
Awaba 
150,000t per annum 
 
 
 
 
8  
Capacity information in this table is based on published NSW EPA licences and applications for each facility as of August 
2025. NSW EPA licences may specify the maximum licensed amount of waste for the premise in either tonnes per annum 
or tonnes at a given time. 


Igneo Infrastructure Partners’ proposed acquisition of Benedict Recycling Pty Ltd   
Page 14 of 17  
Figure 2: Waste facilities that accept mixed and sorted B&D waste in the Newcastle area9 
 
Low likelihood of timely and effective new entry or expansion  
60. The ACCC considers that there are significant barriers to entry and expansion in 
mixed B&D waste processing, meaning the threat of new entry or expansion would 
be unlikely to constrain a combined IWS-Benedict entity post-acquisition. 
61.  Potential entrants face significant barriers, including:  
a. Limited availability of suitable sites that meet environmental and regulatory 
requirements in the Newcastle region. The ACCC understands the availability 
of suitable sites in the Newcastle region is limited, with future waste 
management site development opportunities likely to be more than 30 
minutes’ drive from the centre of Newcastle. 
b. The time and cost required to obtain the necessary development approvals 
and EPA licences. Market participants generally indicated it can take 
between 12 months to 8 years to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, with 
no certainty that they will be granted.  
c. Cost of land and equipment. Information provided to the ACCC suggests 
capital costs could range from $10m (for a smaller facility) to up to $30m. 
The ACCC welcomes feedback on the profitability of new entry in the context 
of these costs. 
62. The Parties submit that they are aware of new entrants planning to develop mixed 
B&D waste processing facilities in the Newcastle region, identifying MET Recycling 
as a potential new entrant. The ACCC understands that MET Recycling has an 
 
9  
Prepared by the ACCC using publicly available sources and Google Maps 


Igneo Infrastructure Partners’ proposed acquisition of Benedict Recycling Pty Ltd   
Page 15 of 17  
application pending with the NSW Department of Planning and Cessnock City 
Council for a resource recovery facility in Abermain, approximately 35-40 km from 
the centre of Newcastle. Publicly available information suggests that the 
development application has not progressed since a Request for Secretary’s 
Environmental Assessment Requirements Scoping Study was lodged in 2022.10 At 
this stage, the ACCC considers that the potential for MET Recycling to enter, under 
an uncertain timeframe, is not sufficient to establish that the threat of new entry is 
likely, timely and sufficient to constrain the merged firm post-acquisition.  
63. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that operators of existing waste processing facilities 
in the Newcastle region, including C&I and material-specific B&D waste processing 
facilities, would also face significant hurdles to switching or expanding their service 
to offer mixed B&D waste processing in a timely way. Switching to mixed B&D waste 
processing would necessitate operational changes and could disrupt existing waste 
recycling operations, and associated profits.  
64. Obtaining the necessary approvals and EPA licence to develop new plant and 
conduct different waste recycling activities can take considerable time and expense. 
The ACCC understands some waste facilities in the Newcastle region hold EPA 
licences that would permit the processing of mixed B&D waste, but the operators of 
those facilities only accept certain segregated B&D waste streams. The ACCC is 
considering whether there would be approvals required or any other regulatory 
barriers for these firms to switch or expand their operations to accept and process 
mixed B&D waste. 
Customers do not have countervailing power 
65. The ACCC considers that B&D waste collectors in the Newcastle region are unable to 
credibly ‘self-supply’ or sponsor new entry in B&D waste processing and accordingly 
have limited or no countervailing power.  
66. B&D waste collection companies in the Newcastle region are fragmented and small-
scale. It appears unlikely that a collection business would be able to underwrite the 
significant cost of developing a new mixed B&D waste processing facility.  
Questions for market participants  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants regarding competition in the supply 
of mixed B&D waste processing services. Market participants may wish to comment on the 
following:  
• 
How closely IWS and Benedict compete with each other for customers of 
mixed B&D waste processing services, including the significance of each of 
IWS’ facilities at Cardiff and Kurri Kurri  
• 
The extent to which Skips and Scrap competes with IWS and Benedict for 
customers of mixed B&D waste processing services 
 
10  
Planning NSW, Resource Recovery Facility Met Recycling-HEZ, accessed 26 August 2025. 


Igneo Infrastructure Partners’ proposed acquisition of Benedict Recycling Pty Ltd   
Page 16 of 17  
• 
The impact of Skips and Scrap’s recent acquisition of Bingo Industries’ 
Newcastle operations, including:  
o 
Skips and Scrap’s processing capability of mixed B&D waste, and 
o 
Skips and Scrap’s capacity to accept and process waste deposited by 
third parties  
• 
The potential for suppliers of C&I waste processing services to expand into 
mixed B&D waste processing in the Newcastle region, including their incentives 
to do so and the timeframes involved 
• 
The potential for suppliers of waste processing services that are licensed to 
process mixed B&D waste (but do not currently accept it) to start accepting 
mixed B&D waste, and the likelihood of them doing so 
• 
The extent to which Igneo’s development of a waste management facility in 
Black Hill (as a result of the Three Mile Hill transaction) may:  
o 
impact on competition in mixed B&D waste processing services in the 
Newcastle region 
o 
impact the likelihood of new entry in B&D waste processing in the 
Newcastle region.  
 
Issue that may raise concerns: foreclosure of competing B&D 
waste collection businesses 
67. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the Proposed Acquisition may substantially 
lessen competition in the supply of B&D waste collection services in the Newcastle 
region due to the risk of the merged firm adopting a foreclosure strategy post-
acquisition.  
68. IWS operates an integrated B&D waste collection and processing business in the 
Newcastle region. Benedict does not operate a collections business and receives 
waste at the Newcastle Recycling Centre from third-party waste collectors and other 
waste generators (e.g. members of the public).  
69. B&D waste processing is a necessary input for B&D waste collectors. While vertically 
integrated waste service providers deposit waste at their own processing facilities, 
standalone B&D waste collection companies rely on access to competitively priced 
waste processing services.  
70. The ACCC is concerned that post-acquisition, IWS may have the ability to foreclose 
its rival downstream B&D waste collection suppliers in the Newcastle region by 
either:  
• 
limiting its B&D waste collection rivals’ access to one or more of IWS’ processing 
facilities, or  
• 
increasing the tipping prices for rival B&D waste collectors, such that they can no 
longer compete with IWS’ waste collections business.  


Igneo Infrastructure Partners’ proposed acquisition of Benedict Recycling Pty Ltd   
Page 17 of 17  
71. The ACCC is still considering whether the merged entity would have the incentive to 
foreclose third-party waste collection businesses.  
72. The ACCC is concerned that such a foreclosure strategy may substantially lessen 
competition in the market for mixed B&D waste collection by preventing non-
vertically integrated rival companies from competing effectively in waste collections. 
Questions for market participants  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants regarding:   
• 
How B&D waste collectors would respond to losing access to IWS’ and 
Benedict’s waste facilities, or to a significant increase in tipping prices at each 
of these facilities 
• 
The potential impact on the use of the merged firm’s facilities if it increased 
the tipping price for rival collectors 
• 
How commercial factors may influence the merged firm’s incentive to restrict 
entry by (or increase the fee charged to) rival collection businesses.  
 
The ACCC’s future steps  
73. As noted above, the ACCC invites submissions from market participants on each of 
the issues identified in this Statement of Issues, and on any other issues that may be 
relevant to the ACCC’s assessment of this matter. Submissions should be emailed to 
mergers@accc.gov.au by no later than 5pm AEST on 25 September 2025.  
74. The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions invited 
by this Statement of Issues.  
75. The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 20 November 2025. 
However, the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment explaining the ACCC’s 
final view may be published following the ACCC’s public announcement.  
