 
 
1 
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
tel: (02) 6243 1368 
mergers@accc.gov.au
www.accc.gov.au
Our ref:  
IM-70013 
 
Contact officer: 
Andrew Mahony / Stella Leung 
Contact phone: 
03 9290 1983 / 03 9658 6444 
18 April 2019 
Dear Interested Party 
Request for submissions: Viva Energy Australia Pty Ltd’s proposed acquisition 
of Liberty Oil Holdings Pty Ltd 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
Viva Energy Australia Pty Ltd’s (Viva) proposed acquisition of the remaining interest in 
Liberty Oil Holdings Pty Ltd (Liberty) and the proposed transaction relating to Liberty’s 
retail business (together, the proposed acquisition). 
Viva’s operations in Australia include refining, importing, wholesale and retail supply of fuel 
products. Liberty is a wholesaler and retailer of fuel products.  
Viva currently holds a 50 per cent interest in Liberty. Under the proposed acquisition, Viva 
will acquire the remaining 50 per cent interest in Liberty, and the assets of Liberty’s retail 
business will be transferred to a new company in which Viva will have a 50 per cent 
interest. 
Further details regarding the acquisition can be found at Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact on competition. In particular, we are 
seeking your views on: 
 
whether the proposed acquisition will lead to higher retail fuel prices; 
 
how closely Liberty competes with Viva (including Coles Express or Westside sites) 
in retail supply of fuel, both in local areas and across metropolitan areas, and 
whether other fuel retailers will competitively constrain Viva after the proposed 
acquisition; 
 
whether the proposed acquisition is likely to enable Viva to increase the prices it 
charges to wholesale customers or offer less favourable terms of supply. 
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 


 
2 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
Please provide your response by no later than 5pm on 9 May 2019. Responses may be 
emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: Submission re: Viva / Liberty - attention 
Andrew Mahony and Stella Leung. If you would like to arrange a time to discuss the matter 
with ACCC officers, or have any questions about this letter, please contact Andrew Mahony 
on 03 9290 1983 or Stella Leung on 03 9658 6444. 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public 
Mergers Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We will not 
disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by 
law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or during court proceedings) or 
in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010.  Where the 
ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, the ACCC will notify you in advance 
where possible so that you may have an opportunity to be heard.  Therefore, if the 
information provided to the ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our 
Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
Tom Leuner 
General Manager 
Merger Investigations 


 
 
3 
Attachment A 
Viva 
In 2014, Viva Energy B.V. acquired Shell’s Australian downstream business and 
renamed the business Viva Energy. Viva is now one of the four refiner-wholesalers in 
Australia, refining, importing and wholesaling fuel in Australia. Viva also has retail 
operations, including retail supply of fuel through its commission agents and supply 
of fuel to sites operated by dealers. 
Viva and Coles Group Limited announced on 6 February 2019 that they had 
restructured their alliance arrangement and extended the arrangement to 2029. 
Under the new arrangement, from 1 March 2019, Viva sets retail prices at Coles 
Express/Shell co-branded sites and receives the full fuel retail margin, and Coles 
Express operates those sites as Viva’s commission agent and receives a 
commission per litre fuel sold. There are approximately 712 of these sites in total 
across Australia. 
Viva also holds a 50 per cent interest in Westside Petroleum Consolidated Holdings 
Pty Ltd (Westside), which has a network of approximately 59 service stations in 
Victoria and NSW, including sites operated by Westside directly or through a 
commission agent and sites operated by dealers. 
Viva acquired a 50 per cent interest in Liberty in 2014. The acquisition was cleared 
by the ACCC.  
Liberty 
At the time of Viva’s acquisition of a 50 per cent interest in Liberty, Liberty had only 
wholesale operations. It has since developed retail operations.  
Liberty does not have refining capacity and does not own import terminals. Its 
wholesale operations mainly comprise supply of fuel to distributors, independent 
service stations, commercial customers and rural customers.  
Liberty’s retail operations include around 50 retail fuel outlets that Liberty operates 
directly or through a commission agent. These service stations are in the 
metropolitan areas of Adelaide and Melbourne and regional areas of all states and 
territories, except the ACT and Tasmania.  
In addition, Liberty supplies to a network of around 250 Liberty or Shell branded 
service stations operated by dealers. 
The proposed transaction 
Viva currently holds a 50 per cent interest in Liberty. On 27 February 2019, Viva 
announced its proposal to acquire the remaining 50 per cent interest in Liberty. As 
part of the proposed acquisition, the assets of Liberty’s retail business will be 
transferred to a new company. Viva will hold a 50 per cent interest in the new retail 
company. A company related to the current owners of the remaining interest in 
Liberty will hold the other 50 per cent interest in the retail company. Viva also has a 
call option to acquire the remaining interest in the retail company in 2024, and the 
other owner of the retail company has a put option to sell its interest to Viva in that 
year.  
The consideration payable for the proposed acquisition is $42 million. 


 
 
4 
Attachment B 
Background 
1. If you are involved in the fuel industry, please provide a description of your 
business and your involvement in the industry, including any commercial 
relationship/s with either of Viva or Liberty. 
2. If you are not involved in the fuel industry, please explain your interest in the 
proposed acquisition. If you are writing as an individual, please indicate the 
suburb or region in which you reside and/or generally purchase fuel.  
Competition between fuel retailers 
3. Please address the closeness of competition between Liberty and Viva (including 
Coles Express or Westside sites) for the retail supply of fuel. Relevant factors 
may include geographic areas of supply, product ranges, non-fuel offerings, and 
their response to each other’s pricing. Please provide specific examples where 
possible.  
Local competition  
4. Please provide any comments regarding the likely effect of the proposed 
acquisition on competition in particular local retail markets. In doing so, please 
make reference to the extent of competition Viva (including Coles Express or 
Westside sites) is likely to face from other retail service station sites within each 
local market in which you consider there may be an issue. 
Regular retail price cycles 
Fuel prices in large Australian cities tend to be cyclical. A typical price cycle involves 
a sharp increase in retail petrol prices over a relatively small number of days (the 
price increase phase), followed by a gradual decline in price over a longer period, up 
to a few weeks or more (the discounting phase).  
5. Please comment on how competition between metropolitan fuel retailers in the 
price increase and discounting phases might change as a result of the proposed 
acquisition.  
Wholesale supply of fuel 
6. Please address the competitiveness of the market for the wholesale supply of 
fuel. Relevant factors may include the number of wholesalers and ease of 
switching between wholesalers and changing retail branding. 
7. Please address the extent to which there is competition between Liberty and Viva 
for wholesale supply of fuel, nationally or in any geographical areas. 
8. Please comment on whether the proposed acquisition is likely to enable Viva to 
increase the prices it charges to wholesale customers or offer less favourable 
terms of supply. Please explain why/why not. 
9. Please address the likelihood of new entry or expansion in response to the 
combined Viva/Liberty attempting to increase wholesale prices. In your response, 
please consider the likely costs and timeframe for market entry or expansion.  
Other information or competition issues 


 
5 
10. Please provide any additional information or comments, or identify other 
competition issues, that you consider relevant to the ACCC’s consideration of the 
proposed acquisition under section 50 of the Act. 
