 
Page 1 of 15 
 
Statement of Issues 
15 August 2019 
Emergent Cold – proposed acquisition of Oxford  
Purpose 
1. 
Emergent Cold Pty Ltd (Emergent Cold) proposes to acquire all of the shares of 
AB Oxford Cold Storage Company Pty Ltd and AB Oxford Cold Storage 
Company No 2 Pty Ltd (together, Oxford). 
2. 
This Statement of Issues: 
 
gives the preliminary views of the Australian Competition and Consumer 
Commission (ACCC) on competition issues arising from the proposed 
acquisition 
 
identifies areas of further inquiry, and 
 
invites interested parties to submit comments and information to assist our 
assessment of the issues. 
3. 
Statements of Issues give preliminary views and do not refer to confidential 
information provided by the parties or other market participants, therefore they 
may not be a full articulation of the ACCC’s preliminary position. 
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views 
4. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is 
in section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits 
acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of 
substantially lessening competition in any market. 
5. 
The ACCC divides its preliminary views into three categories, 'issues of concern', 
'issues that may raise concerns' and ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’. 
Issue of concern 
6. 
The ACCC considers, based on market feedback, that Emergent Cold and 
Oxford are likely to be each other’s closest competitors for the supply of cold 


Emergent Cold – proposed acquisition of Oxford 
 
Page 2 of 15 
storage services in Victoria. The ACCC is concerned that the reduction in 
number of large third party cold storage providers in Victoria from four to three, 
and the removal of Emergent Cold’s closest competitor, is likely to result in 
higher prices or lower service levels for the supply of third party cold storage 
services in Victoria. 
Making a submission 
7. 
The ACCC is seeking submissions from interested parties, particularly on the 
following key issues: 
 
the extent to which existing suppliers of third party cold storage services in 
Victoria will provide a competitive constraint on the combined Emergent 
Cold/Oxford, and 
 
the height of the barriers to entry or expansion (including the likelihood of 
new entry from transport logistics operators) and the ability of customers to 
sponsor new entry or expansion or expand in-house cold storage services. 
8. 
Detailed discussion of these and other issues, along with specific questions, is 
contained in this Statement of Issues.  
9. 
Interested parties should provide submissions by no later than 5pm on 
30 August 2019. Responses may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the 
title: Submission re: Emergent Cold/Oxford – attention Alison Hill/Andrew Sudol. 
If you would like to discuss the matter with ACCC officers over the telephone or 
in person, or have any questions about this Statement of Issues, please contact 
Alison Hill on 03 9910 9469 or Andrew Sudol on 02 9230 9119.  
10. 
The ACCC anticipates making a final decision on 7 November 2019. However, 
this timeline can change. To keep abreast of possible changes in relation to 
timing and to find relevant documents, interested parties should visit the Mergers 
Register on the ACCC's website at www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
Confidentiality of submissions 
11. 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We 
will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) 
unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation 
or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition 
and Consumer Act 2010.  Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where possible so that you may 
have an opportunity to be heard.  Therefore, if the information provided to the 
ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’ 
12. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well 
as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 


Emergent Cold – proposed acquisition of Oxford 
 
Page 3 of 15 
13. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 
Timeline 
Date 
Event 
4 June 2019 
ACCC commenced informal review under the Informal 
Merger Review Process Guidelines.  
15 August 2019 
ACCC publication of Statement of Issues 
30 August 2019 
Deadline for submissions from interested parties in 
response to this Statement of Issues 
7 November 2019 
Anticipated date for ACCC final decision  
The parties 
Emergent Cold 
14. 
Emergent Cold is part of the Emergent Cold Group, a Texas-based cold storage 
provider that provides cold storage services in Australia, New Zealand, Vietnam 
and Sri Lanka. Emergent Cold describes itself as the market leader for cold 
storage services in Australia, with sites in Victoria, New South Wales, South 
Australia and Western Australia. Emergent Cold’s Victorian sites are in Laverton, 
Allansford, Truganina, Lyndhurst and Tullamarine. 
15. 
Emergent Cold supplies cold storage services that include chilled and frozen 
storage, cross-dock order picking, associated logistic services, consolidation and 
import/export management assistance. Emergent Cold also operates a fleet of 
refrigerated vehicles and trailers that supply refrigerated transport services in 
Australia. 
16. 
Emergent Cold entered into Australia in late 2017, through its acquisition of the 
cold storage business of John Swire & Sons, Swire Cold Storage. It expanded in 
late 2018 by acquiring Montague Cold Storage.  
Oxford 
17. 
Oxford has a single cold storage facility in Laverton North, Victoria. 
18. 
Oxford supplies frozen and chilled storage and handling services that include 
blast freezing, chilled and frozen storage and associated services which include 
pick/pack, wrapping, labelling, supplier-integrated inventory management 
through electronic data interchange and full product tracking and recall. 


Emergent Cold – proposed acquisition of Oxford 
 
Page 4 of 15 
Industry background 
Overview 
19. 
Cold storage facilities utilise specialty warehouses equipped with large-scale 
freezers and/or cool rooms for the storage of temperature-sensitive products. 
These temperature-sensitive products are kept in cold storage facilities while 
they await delivery or export to their final point of sale. 
20. 
Goods typically requiring cold storage are: 
a. for imported goods – after they are imported into Australia, prior to their 
distribution to domestic customers 
b. for exported goods – before they are exported out of Australia, or 
c. for goods that are manufactured domestically – for storage of these 
products as they are distributed from their manufacturing facility to retailer 
storage facilities or to individual retail outlets.  
21. 
There are various licensing requirements for cold storage providers. The exact 
requirements for each operator depend on the goods being stored, and whether 
those products have been imported, or are due to be exported. Third party cold 
storage services providers may also provide customers with a range of ancillary 
services, including: 
a. pick/pack, in particular, picking of individual cartons within a pallet for 
distribution in sub-pallet quantities of goods 
b. using the inventory management IT system at a cold storage facility to 
coordinate the distribution, tracking and recall of goods from the facility, 
using the cold storage facility as a distribution centre 
c. wrapping and labelling services, and 
d. services that are specific to the requirements of the goods being stored – 
for example, allowing for the aging of cheese within particular chambers. 
Customers of cold storage services 
22. 
Customers of third party cold storage services are typically food manufacturers, 
exporters, importers, logistics providers, or retailers. Goods that typically require 
cold storage include dairy products, seafood, raw and cooked meat, poultry, 
frozen vegetables and other frozen or chilled foods. 
23. 
Different customer groups have different needs regarding the way their products 
are distributed and in what quantities. Some customers of cold storage services 
distribute their goods in whole pallets, whereas other customers distribute their 
goods in cartons which requires picking individual cartons from stored pallets 
which are then repackaged and sent back into cold storage. Picking individual 
cartons from pallets requires dedicated areas at cold storage facilities. 
24. 
Different customer types also require storage of pallets for different lengths of 
time. Retailers, for example, have very fast moving goods with a very high 
turnover of pallets where some goods may be stored for less than a day. Other 


Emergent Cold – proposed acquisition of Oxford 
 
Page 5 of 15 
customers, such as manufacturers, may require cold storage to store goods for 
longer periods of time before they are distributed (for example: dairy products 
are subject to seasonal fluctuation in production, which is not necessarily 
matched to demand so goods are stored before they are distributed). 
25. 
Food manufacturer customers of cold storage services often have some cold 
storage capacity at their manufacturing facility to store chilled or frozen goods. 
Large retailer customers of cold storage services also have access to in-house 
cold storage services for chilled or frozen goods or both. Other customers (e.g. 
importers or exporters) do not necessarily have access to any of their own cold 
storage facilities. 
The proposed transaction 
26. 
On 28 May 2019, Emergent Cold announced that Emergent Cold and Oxford 
had signed an agreement under which Emergent Cold would acquire Oxford. 
Under the agreement, Emergent Cold will acquire Oxford’s cold storage 
business which involves operating the cold storage facility located at Hume Road 
in Laverton North, Victoria.1 
Market definition 
27. 
The ACCC’s starting point for defining relevant markets to assess the 
competitive effects of the proposed acquisition involves identifying the products 
actually or potentially supplied by the merger parties. The ACCC then considers 
other actual or potential suppliers of those products, as well as what other 
products constitute sufficiently close substitutes to provide a significant source of 
constraint on the merged entity. 
28. 
Emergent Cold and Oxford overlap in the supply of third party cold storage 
services in Victoria.  
29. 
The ACCC understands that customers typically acquire cold storage services 
separately in different states (or in different regions within states) and that very 
few customers acquire cold storage services from a single provider nationally. 
Further, cold storage provided in other states is not a strong substitute for cold 
storage services provided in Victoria. 
30. 
Accordingly, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the market for assessing the 
competition effects of the proposed acquisition is a market for the supply of third 
party cold storage services in Victoria. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary views about 
the definition of the relevant market. In particular market participants may wish to 
comment on: 
 
Do customers in Victoria acquire cold storage services for different regions within 
Victoria or for particular cities? 
                                                 
 
1  The proposed transaction does not include the buildings or land comprising the Laverton North facility, 
which are leased by Oxford. 


Emergent Cold – proposed acquisition of Oxford 
 
Page 6 of 15 
 
To what extent can customers change states in which they acquire cold storage 
services? 
 
To what extent can customers redistribute goods from cold storage facilities in one 
state to cold storage facilities in another state? 
 
Do customers’ cold storage requirements vary depending on their size and their 
products? 
 
Does the extent to which customers’ can switch suppliers vary depending on their 
size and their products? 
Issue of concern 
31. 
Based upon its inquiries to date, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the 
proposed acquisition is likely to substantially lessen competition because: 
a. it would consolidate a significant proportion of Victorian third party cold 
storage capacity under Emergent Cold’s control 
b. it would remove Emergent Cold’s closest competitor for the supply of cold 
storage services in Victoria 
c. it would reduce the number of large suppliers of cold storage services in 
Victoria from four to three 
d. existing suppliers of cold storage services in Victoria are unlikely to 
sufficiently constrain a combined Emergent Cold/Oxford post-acquisition, 
and 
e. barriers to entry or expansion are likely to be high and very few customers 
are likely to be able to sponsor new entry or expansion or to satisfactorily 
self-supply cold storage services in-house. 
32. 
The ACCC considers that competition in the supply of cold storage services 
takes multiple forms. In the short term, firms compete through price and service 
level competition, based on their existing capacity. Over the longer term, as 
overall demand for cold storage increases, suppliers also expand their capacity 
as they compete to win new business. 
33. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition would impact both 
aspects of this competition: 
a. it would immediately reduce the competitive constraint faced by Emergent 
Cold, and 
b. it may create the ability and incentive for Emergent Cold to limit future 
expansions in its capacity, or perhaps reduce its existing capacity (e.g. by 
closing one of its existing smaller Victorian facilities and consolidating its 
storage across its remaining sites), leading to tighter supply conditions in 
the future, 
resulting in increased prices or decreased service levels to customers. 


Emergent Cold – proposed acquisition of Oxford 
 
Page 7 of 15 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants in relation to Emergent Cold’s 
ability and incentive to reduce or limit available cold storage capacity. In particular, 
market participants may wish to comment on the following: 
 
What is the likely effect of decreasing available cold storage capacity in Victoria on 
prices or on service quality? 
 
To what extent would the proposed acquisition affect Emergent Cold’s ability or 
incentive to limit future capacity growth, or reduce existing capacity, in cold storage 
in Victoria? 
Suppliers of cold storage services in Victoria 
34. 
There are four large non-integrated third party providers of cold storage facilities 
(large cold storage providers) in Victoria: 
a. Emergent Cold (as noted above) operates five facilities 
b. Oxford (as noted above) operates one facility in Laverton North 
c. NewCold operates two facilities in Truganina, and 
d. Americold operates one facility in Laverton North. 
35. 
Table 1 below sets out the approximate percentage of cold storage capacity in 
Victoria provided by Emergent Cold, Oxford, NewCold, Americold, and 
collectively other cold storage services providers. It excludes the cold storage 
capacity held by customers, because of its limited constraint on the large cold 
storage providers which is discussed in further detail below. 
Table 1: approximate shares of cold storage capacity in Victoria  
36. 
As shown in Table 1 above, the top four providers of cold storage services 
(Emergent Cold, Oxford, NewCold and Americold) account for approximately 70 
Cold Storage Provider 
Share of Victorian 
third party cold 
storage capacity 
Share of Victorian third party 
cold storage capacity 
(excluding transport companies 
and smaller operators) 
Oxford 
18-20% 
26-28% 
Emergent Cold 
18-20% 
26-28% 
Combined Emergent 
Cold/Oxford  
35-40% 
52-56% 
NewCold 
25-30% 
35-40% 
Americold 
5-7% 
7-10% 
Other smaller cold 
storage services 
providers (combined) 
28-32% 
Not applicable 


Emergent Cold – proposed acquisition of Oxford 
 
Page 8 of 15 
per cent of third party cold storage capacity in Victoria. The combined Emergent 
Cold / Oxford would hold approximately 35 – 40 per cent of third party cold 
storage in Victoria. If transport companies and smaller cold storage providers are 
excluded from the market shares (see discussion below about the extent of 
constraint from these providers) this figure increases to 52 – 56 per cent.    
Closeness of competition between Emergent Cold and Oxford 
37. 
The ACCC considers, based on market feedback, that Emergent Cold and 
Oxford are likely to be each other’s closest competitors for the supply of cold 
storage services in Victoria for a number of reasons, including: 
a. they are two of the largest non-automated or semi-automated cold storage 
service providers in Victoria, which gives them greater scope to store 
products that smaller cold storage facilities are unable to accommodate 
b. they both operate cold storage facilities that involve some manual handling, 
which provides greater flexibility in the types of goods that they are able to 
handle and store. In contrast, fully-automated cold storage facilities are 
more limited in their ability to store partial or irregular pallets 
c. they both provide cold storage services to similar customers across a 
number of the same product types with similar cold storage requirements 
(e.g. medium sized food manufacturers in the dairy, meat and seafood 
industries and food importers). 
d. they both meet the necessary licensing requirements to deal with imports 
(including accepting goods that require biosecurity inspections at the cold 
storage facility), exports, dairy accreditation and general food accreditation 
e. they both offer a similar range of ancillary services such as pick/pack 
services, wrapping and labelling services, allowing customers access to 
part of a pallet, pallet repackaging, inventory management, and integration 
with other logistics solutions. 
38. 
The ACCC considers that Emergent Cold and Oxford provide cold storage 
services to similar customers. These groups of customers are likely to be 
particularly affected by the proposed acquisition, because in many cases their 
products do not suit NewCold’s highly-automated facility or Americold’s small, 
high-turnover facility, but whose cold storage services needs are too large or 
complex to be met by smaller suppliers. 
39. 
Therefore, the ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition is likely to result 
in the removal of Emergent Cold’s closest competitor and that the remaining 
large cold storage providers are unlikely to provide a sufficient competitive 
constraint to Emergent Cold/Oxford. The degree to which other providers of cold 
storage services compete with Emergent Cold and Oxford for these customers is 
discussed in further detail below. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to the 
closeness of competition between Emergent Cold and Oxford. In particular, market 
participants may wish to comment on the following: 
 
To what extent do Emergent Cold and Oxford service similar customer 
requirements, including the contract volumes, types of products stored and service 


Emergent Cold – proposed acquisition of Oxford 
 
Page 9 of 15 
levels and pricing offered (and to what extent can their customers switch to another 
cold storage services provider)? 
 
Do Emergent Cold and Oxford provide different services, or service levels, 
compared to other cold storage providers? 
Constraint imposed by NewCold 
40. 
NewCold is the largest cold storage provider in Victoria (by capacity), with two 
buildings in Truganina. NewCold’s warehouses are highly automated and it 
services a relatively small number of large customers (including Fonterra, 
McCain, and Peters Ice Cream).  
41. 
The ACCC understands that NewCold’s entry to the cold storage services 
market in Victoria was underwritten by entering into long-term contracts with its 
major customers. Some market participants have indicated that they consider 
that NewCold is at capacity and has limited ability to take on new customers. 
42. 
The ACCC understands that highly-automated systems may not meet the 
requirements of all customers who require cold storage services. Market 
feedback indicates that NewCold’s facilities are best suited to customers 
distributing whole pallets rather than customers who require picking of individual 
cartons. While NewCold can accommodate some pick/pack services at its 
facilities, market feedback indicates that the facility’s design and automation 
cannot accommodate high volumes of pick/pack services or pallet repackaging 
services. These services are highly valued by customers of Emergent Cold and 
Oxford. Automated facilities also have very particular standards for the 
presentation of pallets at their facilities, because any deviation in size, stacking 
of the cartons, or loose wrapping can interfere with the automated services at the 
facility. 
43. 
The ACCC considers that NewCold is likely to provide some constraint to the 
combined Emergent Cold/Oxford post-acquisition, but is not as close a 
competitor to Emergent Cold and Oxford as the parties are to each other. 
Constraint imposed by Americold   
44. 
Americold is a cold storage provider with one cold storage facility in Victoria 
located in Laverton North (in addition to other cold storage facilities in other 
states). Americold is the smallest of the four large cold storage providers in 
Victoria in terms of capacity. 
45. 
Americold services large retail customers from its Laverton North facility, which 
is designed to suit high-turnover goods that move in and out of the warehouse 
quickly. Americold provides services to smaller non-retail customers but its focus 
is supplying large retailer customers with high-turnover products. 
46. 
The ACCC considers that Americold is likely to provide some constraint to the 
combined Emergent Cold/Oxford post acquisition, but its focus on high-turnover 
products and major retailers means that it is not as close a competitor to 
Emergent Cold and Oxford as they are to each other. 


Emergent Cold – proposed acquisition of Oxford 
 
Page 10 of 15 
Constraint from other suppliers of cold storage services  
47. 
As set out above at Table 1, approximately 30 per cent of Victorian third party 
cold storage capacity is held outside of the four large suppliers. This 30 per cent 
consists of two types of suppliers – transport companies and small suppliers. 
Transport companies  
48. 
Transport companies such as Linfox, Toll and AHG have some cold storage 
capacity in Victoria which they typically provide as an integrated offer that 
bundles transportation services along with cold storage capacity that is ancillary 
to the transport of goods. 
49. 
Market feedback indicates that the supply of cold storage services by transport 
companies is typically focussed on the short-term supply of cold storage services 
for goods that are in transit. Transport companies typically supply cold storage 
services to customers that are also acquiring transport services from that 
transport provider. 
50. 
To the extent that transport companies do compete with the major suppliers of 
cold storage services in Victoria, this appears to be for a small number of 
customers rather than of a sufficient scale capable of constraining the pricing 
and service levels of Emergent Cold and Oxford post-acquisition.  
Other suppliers of cold storage services  
51. 
There is also a considerable number of smaller providers of cold storage 
services in Victoria. However, the ACCC considers that these smaller suppliers 
of cold storage services: 
a. lack sufficient capacity to effectively compete for the customers of 
Emergent Cold and Oxford 
b. do not (and cannot) provide the logistical support and integration with 
customers’ existing logistics supply chain 
c. do not offer the same range of ancillary services (such as repackaging 
pallets, inventory management) that are offered by the large cold storage 
services providers 
d. often lack the necessary licensing to comply with certain domestic, import 
or export regulations, including lacking the ability to accommodate 
quarantine inspections, or 
e. operate less efficient or aging cold storage equipment that is unable to 
meet the needs of customers with different cold storage requirements. 
52. 
Market feedback indicates that many customers do not consider that smaller 
suppliers of cold storage services in Victoria compete closely with Emergent 
Cold or Oxford. Instead, these smaller suppliers tend to supply cold storage 
services to smaller customers with simple requirements. When these smaller 
suppliers provide cold storage services to larger or more complex customers this 
is typically only as an overflow facility when customers are not able to get 
sufficient capacity at one of the large cold storage service providers. 


Emergent Cold – proposed acquisition of Oxford 
 
Page 11 of 15 
53. 
In light of the above, the ACCC considers that smaller suppliers are unlikely to 
be a suitable alternative for customers with larger capacity requirements or more 
complex operations that require licensing, logistical support and other services. 
These smaller suppliers are therefore likely to pose limited competitive constraint 
on the large cold storage services providers. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the competitive constraint on 
Emergent Cold/Oxford from other cold storage providers. In particular market 
participants may wish to comment on the following: 
 
To what extent can and do customers change between cold storage providers, 
including between providers with different service levels or models or capacity? 
 
To what extent would Americold and NewCold compete with a combined Emergent 
Cold/Oxford, including with regard to the services and business models they 
operate and availability of capacity? 
 
To what extent are transport operators able to compete for any customers of 
Emergent Cold or Oxford (and for which types of customers or services)? 
 
To what extent are smaller providers of cold storage in Victoria able to compete for 
any customers of Emergent Cold or Oxford (and for which types of customers or 
services)? 
Barriers to entry 
54. 
The ACCC considers that it is likely that the barriers to entry or expansion are 
high for the supply of cold storage services in Victoria. 
55. 
The ACCC understands that the relevant barriers to entry or expansion for cold 
storage service in Victoria include: 
a. purchasing or leasing land or facilities in an area that is proximate to other 
logistics businesses or ports, as cold storage services form part of the 
logistics supply chain 
b. the largely irreversible (‘sunk’) costs involved in building a facility designed 
for cold storage, including purchasing chilling and freezing equipment, and 
specialty racking. Any automation of the cold storage facilities require 
further substantial costs for the purchase of automated equipment and 
associated software 
c. setting up IT systems that allow for inventory management and tracking of 
customers’ products stored at the cold storage facility 
d. the difficulty in securing a specialised work force capable of working at very 
low temperatures, operating a facility continuously or near-continuously 
(including on weekends), and maintaining the facility so that any potential 
equipment malfunctions can be fixed without the temperature ranges of the 
entire facility being affected, and 
e. the need to obtain relevant licences and approvals that allow a facility to 
store particular types of food, or allow for food to be imported or exported.  


Emergent Cold – proposed acquisition of Oxford 
 
Page 12 of 15 
NewCold’s entry in 2017  
56. 
NewCold’s entry into providing cold storage services in Victoria in early 2017 
increased total Victorian cold storage capacity by approximately 200,000 
pallets.2 The ACCC is aware that, following NewCold’s entry, some customers 
experienced a period in which they were able to acquire additional cold storage 
capacity at reduced rates. 
57. 
However, market feedback indicates that the additional capacity created by the 
entry of NewCold into Victorian cold storage services has now been taken up by 
customers and that prices for cold storage have increased since NewCold’s 
entry. The initial impact on pricing that followed NewCold’s entry may also 
indicate that existing cold storage providers were not strongly constrained by the 
threat of new entry prior to NewCold’s entry. 
58. 
Other than NewCold, there are few examples of new entry in cold storage 
facilities in Victoria. Emergent Cold entered in Victoria through the acquisitions of 
Swire Cold Storage and Montagues Cold Storage rather than through organic 
growth or expansion. 
59. 
Notwithstanding NewCold’s entry in 2017, market feedback indicates that there 
has been a lack of available cold storage capacity in Victoria in recent years. The 
ACCC considers that in circumstances where there has been consistent lack of 
available capacity and no further new entry or expansion by existing providers of 
cold storage services, it is likely that barriers to entry are significant. 
Customers’ ability to sponsor new entry or expansion 
60. 
The ACCC considers that while some of the largest customers are likely able to 
sponsor new entry or expansion of cold storage facilities, this is unlikely to 
provide an adequate constraint to the combined Emergent Cold/Oxford. 
61. 
Some customers of cold storage services have the ability to sponsor new entry 
or the expansion of an existing cold storage service provider. For example, the 
ACCC is aware that Woolworths has signed a non-binding Letter of Intent with 
Americold for Americold to design, build and operate a network of three 
automated distribution centres in Brisbane, Melbourne and Sydney. The lease 
agreements and warehouse service agreements are expected to each have an 
initial term of twenty years.3 As noted above, NewCold’s entry was also 
underwritten by entry into long term contracts with large customers such as 
Fonterra, McCain and Peters Ice Cream. 
62. 
However, the ACCC considers that customer sponsorship is only likely to be a 
viable option for a small number of the largest customers in Victoria (such as 
major supermarket chains). Therefore, the threat of sponsored entry or 
expansion is unlikely to be sufficient to constrain the combined Emergent 
Cold/Oxford in the supply of cold storage services to the majority of its 
customers. The ACCC continues to explore this issue. 
                                                 
 
2  The Sydney Morning Herald, ‘Inside Australia's biggest fridge and freezer’, 24 November 2018. 
3  https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1455863/000119312518270882/d598063d8k.htm, accessed 
on 22 July 2019. 


Emergent Cold – proposed acquisition of Oxford 
 
Page 13 of 15 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants in relation to barriers to entry or 
expansion, and the ability of customers to sponsor new entry or expansion. In 
particular, market participants may wish to comment on the following: 
 
Have you considered entry or expansion in cold storage services in Victoria? What 
were the options and key challenges? 
 
Have you considered sponsoring entry or expansion? What were the options and 
key challenges? 
 
What is the minimum size and scale for a customer of cold storage services to be 
able to sponsor new entry or expansion in Victoria? 
 
What is the minimum term of contract that a customer of cold storage services 
would need to agree to in order to sponsor new entry or expansion in Victoria? 
 
Why has the lack of available cold storage capacity in Victoria not been met by 
new entrants or expansion of existing facilities? Is the lack of new entry or 
expansion related to the price that customers are willing to pay for cold storage 
services? 
 
Are there are other suppliers of cold storage in other states, or internationally, that 
could commence supply in Victoria and how readily these other suppliers could 
commence supply in Victoria? 
Customers’ ability to bypass Emergent Cold / Oxford by building their own cold 
storage facilities  
63. 
The ACCC considers that most customers are unlikely to be able to prevent an 
increase in pricing or a decrease in service levels of Emergent Cold/Oxford’s 
cold storage services post-acquisition by expanding their own in-house supply of 
cold storage services. 
64. 
Food manufacturer customers of cold storage services typically have some 
amount of cold storage co-located at their manufacturing facilities to maintain the 
temperature of any chilled or frozen goods after they are manufactured. This is 
rarely an alternative to cold storage services and is typically complementary to 
third party cold storage services. 
65. 
The willingness of customers to consider in-house supply of cold storage 
services differs from customer to customer. Some customers will only in-house 
supply the minimal amount of cold storage that is necessary for their 
manufacturing functions and no more. At the other end of the spectrum, some 
customers may be able to build larger cold storage facilities that satisfy most of 
their demand for cold storage services but, due to their fluctuating need for cold 
storage services and the high cost of running a cold storage facility, will only 
build a facility that satisfies their base requirements for cold storage. 
66. 
This is because there are typically seasonal fluctuations in the production of 
goods that require freezing or chilling – for example, demand for ice-cream and 
seafood increases over summer, and the dairy industry is subject to variations in 
production throughout the year. For customers that are willing to in-house some 
of their cold storage facilities, they will in-house their cold storage requirements 
only to the extent that it covers their base requirements, but will not in-house 


Emergent Cold – proposed acquisition of Oxford 
 
Page 14 of 15 
sufficient cold storage capacity to cover seasonal peaks. To this extent, they 
remain dependent on third party cold storage providers such as Emergent Cold 
or Oxford. 
67. 
Market feedback indicates that customers are generally unwilling to replace third 
party cold storage facilities entirely by building their own cold storage facilities. 
68. 
The ACCC considers that the threat of customers in-housing their cold storage 
needs is likely to provide a limited constraint to the combined Emergent 
Cold/Oxford and that customers are unlikely to be able to viably threaten to in-
house all of their own cold storage needs in response to a 5 -10 per cent 
increase in the price of cold storage services in Victoria. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants in relation to barriers to entry or 
expansion, and the ability of customers to sponsor new entry or expansion. In 
particular, market participants may wish to comment on the following: 
 
For customers of cold storage services in Victoria: have you ever considered 
expanding your existing cold storage facilities or building your own cold storage 
services? If so, how much of your total cold storage demands would your own 
facility have satisfied? What were the key challenges you considered or faced in 
expanding or building your own facilities? 
 
Are there any examples of customers threatening to build their own cold storage 
facilities in response to an increase in price? If so, what was ultimately the effect 
on price? 
ACCC’s preliminary views 
69. 
In summary, the ACCC is concerned that: 
a. the proposed acquisition would consolidate a significant proportion of 
Victorian third party cold storage capacity under Emergent Cold’s control 
b. the proposed acquisition would remove the closest competitor to Emergent 
Cold in the supply of cold storage services in Victoria 
c. the proposed acquisition would decrease the number of large cold storage 
providers in Victoria from four to three 
d. Americold and NewCold would not act as sufficient competitive constraints 
on the combined Emergent Cold/Oxford 
e. other third party cold storage providers, including transport companies 
offering cold storage services and smaller cold storage services providers, 
would not act as sufficient competitive constraints on the combined 
Emergent Cold/Oxford 
f. barriers to entry and expansion (including sponsored entry and expansion) 
are significant and only some very large customers are likely to be able to 
sponsor new entry or expansion, and 
g. customers’ ability to self-supply cold storage services is unlikely to provide 
a viable alternative to third party cold storage services or act as a sufficient 
constraint on the combined Emergent Cold/Oxford. 


Emergent Cold – proposed acquisition of Oxford 
 
Page 15 of 15 
ACCC's future steps 
70. 
As noted above, the ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on 
the issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that may 
be relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. Submissions are to be 
received by the ACCC no later than 30 August 2019 and should be emailed to 
mergers@accc.gov.au. 
71. 
The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
72. 
The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 7 November 2019. 
However the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose 
of explaining the ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's 
public announcement to explain its final view. 
