Page 1 of 13 
 
Statement of Issues 
19 December 2019 
iNova Pharmaceuticals (Australia) Pty Ltd – proposed 
acquisition of Juno PC Holdings Pty Ltd  
Purpose 
1. 
iNova Pharmaceuticals (Australia) Pty Ltd (iNova) proposes to acquire all the 
shares in Juno PC Holdings Pty Ltd (Juno PC) (the proposed acquisition).  
2. 
This Statement of Issues: 
 
gives the preliminary views of the Australian Competition and Consumer 
Commission (ACCC) on competition issues arising from the proposed 
acquisition 
 
identifies areas of further inquiry, and 
 
invites interested parties to submit comments and information to assist our 
assessment of the issues. 
3. 
Statements of Issues do not refer to confidential information provided by the 
parties or other market participants and therefore may not necessarily represent 
a full articulation of the ACCC’s preliminary position. 
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views 
4. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is 
set out in section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. In general 
terms, section 50 prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to 
have the effect, of substantially lessening competition in any market. 
5. 
The ACCC divides its preliminary views into three categories, 'issues of concern', 
'issues that may raise concerns' and ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’. In this 
Statement of Issues there is one ‘issue of concern’.  
 
 


iNova – proposed acquisition of Juno PC 
 
Page 2 of 13 
Issue of concern 
6. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in the supply of phentermine-based weight-loss 
medications and weight-loss medications more broadly. The ACCC is concerned 
that the proposed acquisition would remove potential and likely competition from 
Juno PC. 
7. 
iNova is currently the only supplier of Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA) 
approved phentermine-based weight-loss medication in Australia. Its 
phentermine products have a share of approximately 70 per cent by revenue in 
the supply of prescription and over-the-counter (OTC) weight-loss medication. 
Juno PC’s product in development is also phentermine-based. In the absence of 
the proposed acquisition, Juno PC’s product would likely compete directly and 
strongly with iNova and put downward pressure on prices for phentermine-based 
weight-loss medications.  
8. 
The competitive constraint that Juno PC’s product would place on iNova in the 
absence of the proposed acquisition is likely to be greater than the constraints 
placed by existing prescription and OTC weight-loss medications and by any 
potential new entry of generic phentermine-based weight-loss medications. 
Making a submission 
9. 
The ACCC is seeking submissions from interested parties, particularly on the 
following key issues: 
 
the degree to which iNova’s phentermine-based weight-loss products 
Duromine and Metermine compete with other prescription and OTC 
weight-loss medications 
 
the extent to which iNova’s phentermine-based weight-loss products could 
be constrained by new generic entry in the short to medium term, and 
 
the extent to which Juno PC’s phentermine-based weight-loss tablet is 
likely to be a competitive constraint that is distinct and greater than generic 
equivalents of iNova’s Duromine capsule.  
10. 
Detailed discussion of these and other issues, along with specific questions, is 
contained in this Statement of Issues.  
11. 
Interested parties should provide submissions by no later than 5pm on 
7 February 2020. Responses may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the 
title: Submission re: iNova / Juno PC - attention Adam Phillimore/Adrian Hughes. 
If you would like to discuss the matter with ACCC officers over the telephone or 
in person, or have any questions about this Statement of Issues, please contact 
Adam Phillimore on (02) 6243 1049 or Adrian Hughes on (03) 9658 6545.  
12. 
The ACCC anticipates making a final decision on 9 April 2020, however, this 
timeline can change. To keep abreast of possible changes in relation to timing 
and to find relevant documents, interested parties should visit the Mergers 
Register on the ACCC's website at www.accc.gov.au/publicregisters/mergers-
registers/public-informal-merger-reviews. 


iNova – proposed acquisition of Juno PC 
 
Page 3 of 13 
Confidentiality of submissions 
13. 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We 
will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) 
unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation 
or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition 
and Consumer Act 2010.  Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where possible so that you may 
have an opportunity to be heard.  Therefore, if the information provided to the 
ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’ 
14. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well 
as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
15. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 
Timeline 
Date 
Event 
30 August 2019 
ACCC commenced review of the proposed 
acquisition 
19 December 2019 
ACCC publication of Statement of Issues 
7 February 2020 
Deadline for submissions from interested parties in 
response to this Statement of Issues 
9 April 2020 
Anticipated date for ACCC final decision  
The parties 
16. 
iNova is a pharmaceutical company that develops and sells a range of 
prescription and non-prescription pharmaceutical products. It is the Australian 
subsidiary of a Singaporean holding company. iNova and its affiliated companies 
sell pharmacy products in over 20 countries across Asia, Australasia, and Africa. 
17. 
iNova supplies products primarily in the areas of: 
 
weight management 
 
pain management 


iNova – proposed acquisition of Juno PC 
 
Page 4 of 13 
 
dermatology 
 
cardiology 
 
respiratory health, and 
 
allergy. 
18. 
iNova currently supplies three pharmacotherapy products for weight loss: 
 
Duromine – a branded, prescription-only, phentermine-based extended-
release medication in the form of a capsule. It is prescribed for weight loss 
and management, and works by suppressing hunger and stimulating 
energy expenditure by directly affecting the area of the brain that controls 
appetite. Duromine is not reimbursed under the Pharmaceutical Benefits 
Scheme (PBS), and patients bear the full cost of the medication. 
 
Metermine – a generic version of Duromine. 
 
Contrave – a prescription-only naltrexone hydrochloride and bupropion 
hydrochloride medication. It works by suppressing appetite and reducing 
food cravings. Contrave is not reimbursed under the PBS. 
19. 
Juno PC is a special purpose joint venture vehicle seeking to develop, register, 
licence and supply a patent-protected, branded phentermine hydrochloride 
weight-loss product in the form of a tablet.  
20. 
Juno PC is 56 per cent owned by Juno Pharmaceuticals Pty Ltd (Juno Pharma), 
which specialises in hospital and speciality post-patent pharmaceuticals. Juno 
Pharma is part-owned by Juno Pharmaceuticals Luxembourg. 
21. 
The patent of Juno PC’s product is owned by Alpex Pharma SA, a Swiss-based 
pharmaceutical company. Alpex Pharma also manufactures the product. Juno 
PC has a licence to sell the product in Australia.  
22. 
Juno PC’s product is also an extended-release medication. According to the 
patent application, the invention resolves some of the drawbacks of iNova’s 
Duromine, and ensures more consistent release of phentermine for optimal 
efficacy. 
23. 
Juno PC’s product is in the process of review by the TGA. 
Industry background 
Phentermine-based medication 
24. 
The patent for phentermine was first registered in Australia in 1969 and expired 
in 1991. Phentermine is an amphetamine used to treat obesity, which means it is 
classified within the A08A class of therapeutic drugs (Anti-obesity preparations, 


iNova – proposed acquisition of Juno PC 
 
Page 5 of 13 
excluding dietetics).1 iNova is the only pharmaceutical company that supplies 
TGA approved phentermine-based medication in Australia.  
25. 
Compounding pharmacies (e.g. Amcal, Priceline and Terry White Chemists) 
provide another source of supply of phentermine-based medications in Australia. 
They purchase phentermine from importers and prepare medicines specifically 
for individual patients by performing a manual process in response to a 
prescription. 
26. 
However, the Pharmacy Board of Australia’s ‘Guidelines on Compounding of 
Medicines’2 (the Guidelines) state that a compound medicine should be 
prepared only in circumstances where: 
 
an appropriate commercial product is unavailable 
 
a commercial product is unsuitable, or 
 
when undertaking sanctioned research. 
27. 
The Guidelines also state that pharmacies should not compound a medicine 
(prescribed or not) that is a close formulation to an available and suitable 
commercial product and is not likely to produce a different therapeutic outcome 
to the commercial product. 
28. 
Non-compliance with the Guidelines may result in disciplinary proceedings by 
the responsible authorities. 
Alternative prescription / OTC weight-loss medication 
29. 
Alternative prescription and OTC weight-loss medications in Australia include the 
following. 
 
Prescription: 
o Saxenda (supplied by Novo Nordisk): an injectable (once daily) 
product which contains the active ingredient liraglutide and acts to 
supress appetite, lowering feelings of hunger. Saxenda is 
generally about three to four times the price of Duromine. 
 
OTC: 
o Xenical (supplied by Roche Australia): a capsule (taken 3 times 
daily) containing the active ingredient orlistat. It is a lipase 
inhibitor which reduces the absorption of dietary fat. It is not an 
appetite suppressant. 
                                                 
 
1 A08A is a classification under the Anatomical Therapeutic Chemical Classification System 
(see https://www.who.int/classifications/atcddd/en/), which is controlled by the World Health 
Organisation. 
2 Pharmacy Board of Australia ‘Guidelines on Compounding of Medicines’ March 2015 
(updated August 2017). 


iNova – proposed acquisition of Juno PC 
 
Page 6 of 13 
o Prolistat (supplied by Boucher & Muir): a generic version of 
Xenical. 
o Contrave (supplied by iNova): a tablet (dosage builds from 1 to 4 
tablets daily) containing two active ingredients: Bupropion HCI 
and Naltrexone HCI. Contrave works on both hunger and craving 
pathways. 
Other weight-loss products / services 
30. 
There are also a number of other treatments for weight loss including: 
 
very low calorie/energy diets (also referred to as VLCDs or VLEDs) such 
as Optifast, Optislim and Proslim 
 
weight-loss services such as Weight Watchers, Jenny Craig and Lite ‘n’ 
Easy 
 
herbal remedies available in pharmacies such as Healthy Care’s forskolin 
and guarana products, and 
 
low calorie meal replacements such as FatBlaster and Tony Ferguson. 
Future with and without the acquisition  
31. 
Section 50 of the Act prohibits mergers or acquisitions that would have the effect 
or be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
In assessing a proposed acquisition pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC 
considers the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future state of 
competition if the acquisition proceeds (the “with” position) to the likely future 
state of competition if the acquisition does not proceed (the “without” position) to 
determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to substantially lessen 
competition in any relevant market. 
32. 
The parties submit that Juno PC is an investment vehicle that does not have the 
infrastructure, funds or personnel to market its product itself. They also submit 
that Juno PC’s majority shareholder, Juno Pharma, is focused on hospital 
pharmaceuticals and has no experience or infrastructure in the retail 
pharmaceutical sector. 
33. 
On the basis of the information currently available, the ACCC considers that if 
the proposed acquisition does not proceed, Juno PC is likely to sell its business 
to an alternative purchaser, or it is likely to market its product with Juno 
Pharma’s support and in partnership with a third party with expertise in 
marketing retail pharmaceutical products through pharmacies.   
34. 
iNova submits that Juno PC is not an attractive investment target for an 
alternative purchaser. It submits that no other company has launched a 
phentermine-based product in the decades since iNova’s patent expired and an 
alternative purchaser of Juno PC would need to make a significant investment in 
marketing to grow the sales of Juno PC’s product. 
35. 
The ACCC understands that the development of phentermine-based extended-
release weight-loss medication involves significant development risks as the 


iNova – proposed acquisition of Juno PC 
 
Page 7 of 13 
product is challenging to manufacture. Juno PC’s product has already obtained 
patent protection for its claimed better features and the TGA is in the process of 
reviewing its product. By acquiring Juno PC, an alternative purchaser could 
overcome some of the risks associated with the development of phentermine 
medication. Also, the ACCC understands the total sales of phentermine-based 
medication at the wholesale level in Australia is around $70 million per annum, 
which is significant for a single molecule. Therefore, based on the information 
available, the ACCC considers that another pharmaceutical company is likely to 
view an acquisition of Juno PC or a partnership with Juno PC as an attractive 
opportunity. 
36. 
In addition, the ACCC considers that shareholders of Juno PC would have been 
unlikely to make the commercial decision to invest in the company if iNova was 
the only viable purchaser.  
37. 
Based on the information available, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the likely 
future without the proposed acquisition is Juno PC being acquired by an 
alternative purchaser or entering into a partnership with a third party, in direct 
competition with iNova.  
Market definition 
 
38. 
The ACCC’s starting point for defining relevant markets to assess the 
competitive effects of the proposed acquisition involves identifying the products 
actually or potentially supplied by the merger parties. The ACCC then considers 
what other products constitute sufficiently close substitutes to provide a 
significant source of constraint on the merged entity. The supply or potential 
supply of phentermine-based prescription medication is the area of overlap 
between the parties and therefore the starting point for the ACCC’s analysis.  
39. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the relevant market is likely to be a national 
market for the supply of:  
 
phentermine-based prescription weight-loss medications  
 
prescription weight-loss medications, including phentermine-based 
medications and medications of other formulations, or 
 
weight-loss medications generally, including all prescription and OTC 
medications. 
40. 
The product market is discussed in more detail below. However, the ACCC’s 
preliminary concerns in relation to the proposed acquisition arise regardless of 
which of the possible market definitions is adopted. The ACCC’s investigation to 
date has identified that iNova’s phentermine products have a dominant position 
in prescription weight-loss medications and in weight-loss medications generally, 
and that in the absence of the proposed acquisition, Juno PC’s product would 
likely be a major competitive constraint. 
Weight-loss medications distinct from other weight-loss solutions 
41. 
There are a number of weight-loss solutions available in Australia. These options 
range from behaviour modifications, diet formulations and herbal remedies, 
through to surgical procedures. The ACCC considers that these other weight-
loss solutions are not close substitutes for weight-loss medications.  


iNova – proposed acquisition of Juno PC 
 
Page 8 of 13 
42. 
The ACCC understands that weight-loss medications are usually chosen where 
patients have tried exercise or diet products and services but have not achieved 
the desired results. For those patients, exercise and diet products and services 
are unlikely to be a substitute for weight-loss medications. Also, when patients 
take weight-loss medications, they are still advised by doctors to exercise and 
control their diet where possible. Therefore, the ACCC considers these other 
options are complimentary to, rather than close substitutes for, weight-loss 
medications. 
43. 
The ACCC has also considered whether weight-loss medications are 
substitutable with surgical procedures, such as lap band, gastric bypass and 
gastric sleeve surgery. The ACCC’s market inquiries indicate that patients and 
medical professionals generally do not view weight-loss medications and 
surgical procedures as substitutes. The ACCC considers the price of weight-loss 
medications could increase substantially without impacting doctors’ 
recommendations or patients’ decisions to undertake surgical procedures as an 
alternative weight-loss treatment.  
Substitution between weight-loss medications 
44. 
The ACCC is still considering the extent to which consumers substitute between 
phentermine-based medications, prescription weight-loss medications of other 
formulations, and OTC weight-loss medications, and whether these different 
products are sufficiently strong constraints on one another to be part of the same 
market.  
45. 
On substitution between phentermine-based medications and other weight-loss 
medications, market inquiries and information provided by the parties suggest 
that the entry of another supplier of phentermine-based weight-loss medication 
would substantially reduce the price level of the product. Applying the 
hypothetical monopolist test framework,3 a monopolist supplier of phentermine-
based prescription medication could profitably impose a price that is substantially 
higher than the price level that would prevail if there were other suppliers. In 
addition, as discussed in paragraphs 57 to 59 below, market feedback indicates 
that other weight-loss medications differ significantly from phentermine-based 
medication in terms of efficacy, modes of administrations or price. These factors 
may indicate that phentermine-based medications and other weight-loss 
medications are not close substitutes. 
46. 
On substitution between prescription and OTC medications, the ACCC 
understands that some patients could switch between prescription and OTC 
weight-loss medications, depending on their individual circumstances. However, 
the ACCC has received market feedback that OTC weight-loss medications 
generally have weaker effects than prescription medications and may be less 
effective for some patients. The ACCC has also received feedback that some 
patients try OTC weight-loss products first, and afterwards progress to 
prescription weight-loss medication if OTC medication is unsuccessful. 
                                                 
 
3 To define the relevant markets, the ACCC draws on the conceptual framework provided by 
the hypothetical monopolist test, which involves examination of the effect of the imposition of a 
small but significant and non-transitory increase in price, e.g. 5-10 per cent (SSNIP). Our 
Merger Guidelines contain more information on this conceptual framework. 


iNova – proposed acquisition of Juno PC 
 
Page 9 of 13 
Therefore, for a group of patients, prescription and OTC weight-loss medication 
may not be substitutes.  
47. 
As noted above, we are continuing to investigate these issues. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary views about 
the definition of the relevant market. In particular, market participants may wish to 
comment on: 
 
The factors that lead a consumer or a prescribing doctor to consider weight-loss 
medication, and the extent price factors into this decision. 
 
The extent to which a doctor recommends non-pharmaceutical solutions for 
weight-loss before prescribing medication. 
 
Whether it is typical for doctors to recommend OTC products before prescribing 
weight-loss medication. 
 
Whether the typical consumer of OTC weight-loss medication seeks advice from a 
medical professional before using the medication.  
 
How common it would be for consumers of an orally administered weight-loss 
product to consider a product that is administered via injection and whether there is 
a segment of customers that would not consider injections.  
 
The extent to which pricing of phentermine-based medications is constrained by 
the pricing and availability of other weight-loss medications. 
 
The extent to which pricing of prescription weight-loss medications is constrained 
by the pricing and availability of OTC weight-loss medications.  
Issue of concern: removal of iNova’s likely closest future 
competitor in the supply of weight-loss medication 
48. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in the supply of weight-loss medication.  
49. 
The proposed acquisition would remove Juno PC as a likely direct and close 
future competitor of iNova. The competitive constraint that Juno PC’s product 
would place on iNova in the absence of the proposed acquisition is likely to be 
greater than the constraints placed by existing prescription and OTC weight-loss 
medications and potential new entry of generic versions of phentermine-based 
weight-loss medications. 
Juno PC’s product likely to be iNova’s closest competitor  
50. 
iNova is currently the only producer of TGA approved phentermine-based 
weight-loss medication in Australia. iNova’s phentermine-based Duromine and 
Metermine products have a share of approximately 70 per cent by revenue in the 
supply of prescription and OTC weight-loss medications.  
51. 
Juno PC’s product also has phentermine as its active ingredient. This is different 
to existing weight-loss medication from other suppliers, which utilise different 


iNova – proposed acquisition of Juno PC 
 
Page 10 of 13 
active ingredients (with the exception of compounding phentermine medication 
available from certain pharmacies, discussed further below). The ACCC 
considers that in the absence of the proposed acquisition, Juno PC’s product 
would be the closest competitor to iNova’s Duromine and Metermine and likely 
put downward pressure on prices of phentermine products. 
52. 
In the absence of the proposed acquisition, competition between Juno PC’s 
product and iNova’s Duromine and Metermine would be likely to occur at both 
the prescriber level and the pharmacy level.  
53. 
Juno PC’s product would likely be marketed to doctors as a branded product 
based on its patent-protected novelty. Juno PC’s product is claimed to have a 
more consistent extended-release profile, and would likely be marketed based 
on these features. Also, the ACCC understands that in addition to efficacy and 
safety, doctors take price into account when prescribing medications. The ACCC 
considers that in the absence of the proposed acquisition, Juno’s product would 
likely compete for doctors’ prescriptions on price as well as quality. 
54. 
At the pharmacy level, if the TGA approves Juno PC’s product as bioequivalent 
to iNova’s Duromine, a pharmacist will be able switch between iNova’s Duromine 
and Juno PC’s product. This would create a point of direct competition. The 
ACCC understands that generic wholesalers and manufacturers commonly 
compete at the pharmacy level by offering volume discounts and loyalty 
programs to pharmacies that stock their products. 
55. 
iNova submits that increased competition between phentermine products is 
unlikely to have a significant effect on competition in the broader supply of 
weight-loss solutions. It submits that if the proposed acquisition does not 
proceed, increased competition between phentermine products could decrease 
iNova’s incentive to continue investment in marketing and promotion, especially 
in direct-to-consumer advertising where the promotion of a particular brand is 
prohibited. iNova submits that if the proposed acquisition goes ahead, iNova 
would invest heavily in marketing Juno PC’s product and this would increase 
competition in the overall market by making phentermine a more vigorous and 
effective competitor to other weight-loss solutions. 
56. 
The ACCC considers that iNova has a dominant position in the supply of weight-
loss medications. The ACCC considers that compared to the future with the 
proposed acquisition, competition from Juno PC’s product would likely increase, 
rather than decrease, competition for the supply of weight-loss medications.  
Alternative weight-loss medications provide a lesser competitive constraint 
57. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that other weight-loss medications provide a 
lesser constraint on iNova’s phentermine-based products than Juno PC’s 
product would likely provide in the absence of the proposed acquisition. The 
ACCC has received market feedback that manufacturers of other products are 
not in close competition with iNova’s phentermine-based products.  
58. 
Saxenda, manufactured by Novo Nordisk, is the second most widely-used 
weight-loss medication in Australia. It is significantly differentiated from 
Duromine, in that:  
 
it has a much higher price (it is generally sold for around $400/month, or 
around three to four times the price of Duromine)  


iNova – proposed acquisition of Juno PC 
 
Page 11 of 13 
 
it is injected (rather than administered orally), and  
 
it may be more efficacious but may have some acute side effects.  
Saxenda has a significantly lower market share than iNova’s phentermine-based 
products. 
59. 
The ACCC’s market feedback indicates that OTC weight-loss medications, such 
as Roche’s Xenical and Boucher & Muir’s Prolistat, do not compete strongly with 
iNova’s phentermine based products. This is due to the following factors: 
 
differences in effectiveness: weight-loss data indicates that on average 
patients lose more weight on prescription weight-loss products, such as 
phentermine and liraglutide, than OTC medications. 
 
mechanism by which they work: orlistat (the active ingredient of Xenical 
and Prolistat) reduces the absorption of dietary fat by inhibiting pancreatic 
and gastric lipases. It does not work primarily by suppressing appetite (e.g. 
phentermine, liraglutide). 
 
unpleasant effects of certain OTC medications: these side effects include 
oily spotting, flatulence with discharge and faecal incontinence. 
Constraints imposed by compounding pharmacies are limited 
60. 
The ACCC is also considering the extent to which compounding pharmacies 
place a competitive constraint on iNova’s phentermine products. Compounding 
occurs when a pharmacist specifically prepares medication for an individual 
patient in response to a prescription. It is typically recommended in cases where 
a patient has sensitivity to an excipient in the commercial product or requires a 
different dose to the commercial product.  
61. 
There are rules that prevent pharmacies from compounding products that are 
readily available from other sources, as is the case for Duromine. The ACCC 
understands that the prevalence of compounding phentermine is relatively minor 
and has decreased in recent years. The ACCC also understands that 
compounding phentermine does not have the same extended-release feature as 
provided by iNova’s Duromine and Metermine and Juno PC’s product. 
62. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that compounding pharmacies provide limited 
competitive constraints on iNova.  
Possible new entry into the market  
 
Possible new entry of generic phentermine-based products 
63. 
The ACCC is considering the impact of new entry of generic versions of 
Duromine on future competition in the market. The ACCC’s preliminary view is 
that even with the possibility of new entry by generic phentermine products, in 
the absence of the proposed acquisition, Juno PC’s product is still likely to 
provide a significant additional competitive constraint on iNova. 
64. 
The ACCC considers it is possible that third parties may enter the market with 
generic versions of Duromine in the short to medium term. However, even with 


iNova – proposed acquisition of Juno PC 
 
Page 12 of 13 
the possibility of entry by generic products, the proposed acquisition would still 
reduce the number of likely significant suppliers in the market. The ACCC also 
considers that compared to other possible generic phentermine products, Juno 
PC is likely to be in a better position to compete effectively with iNova. Juno PC’s 
patent-protected product is claimed to have a more consistent extended-release 
profile than Duromine. It could compete with Duromine on both quality and price 
at the point of prescription as well as the point of purchase at a pharmacy.  
65. 
In contrast, any possible future generic phentermine-based products would likely 
compete only on price at the point of purchase at a pharmacy, and only if the 
prescribing doctor has not excluded generic substitution. The ACCC’s 
investigations in previous pharmaceutical mergers have identified that, in 
general, there is a class of customer that is reluctant or unwilling to switch to a 
generic version of a branded product, due to a perception that generic versions 
are inferior in quality. The potential for Juno PC’s product to be promoted to 
doctors gives it an advantage over other generic products. 
66. 
In addition, if the proposed acquisition proceeds, iNova may promote Juno PC’s 
product to doctors as a superior option to Duromine and ask doctors to prescribe 
Juno PC’s product and tick the “no generic substitution” tick-box. This would 
significantly limit other generic products’ ability to compete with iNova at the 
pharmacy level.  
Entry by other weight-loss medication  
67. 
The ACCC is also considering the extent to which there may be new entry by 
other weight-loss medications into Australia that would constrain iNova. 
68. 
There are several other types of weight-loss medications approved overseas 
which are not available in Australia, such as lorcaserin, an altrexone/bupropion 
combination, and the product Plenity. It is possible that companies 
manufacturing these products could enter the Australian market, by seeking the 
TGA’s approval and setting up a distribution network. The ACCC considers that 
TGA approval is likely to be a significant barrier to entry for many of these 
manufacturers. 
69. 
Even if they were to enter, it is not clear that these alternative medications would 
be strong competitors of iNova’s phentermine-based medication. The ACCC’s 
preliminary view is that the threat of new entry by other weight-loss medication is 
unlikely to provide any meaningful constraint on iNova in the medium term.  
ACCC’s preliminary views 
70. 
Based on the information before it, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that: 
 
the proposed acquisition would remove Juno PC’s product as a likely direct 
and close future competitor of iNova 
 
the competitive constraints on iNova currently provided by alternative 
prescription and OTC weight-loss medications are lower than the constraint 
that Juno PC’s product would likely provide in the absence of the proposed 
acquisition 
 
compounding pharmacies do not provide meaningful competitive constraints 
on iNova, and 


iNova – proposed acquisition of Juno PC 
 
Page 13 of 13 
 
even with the possibility of future competition from the new entry of generic 
versions of Duromine, in the absence of the proposed acquisition, Juno PC’s 
product would still be likely to provide a significant additional competitive 
constraint on iNova. 
71. 
For these reasons, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition 
is likely to substantially lessen competition in the supply of phentermine-based 
weight-loss medications and the supply of weight-loss medications more broadly.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary views about 
the competitive effects of the proposed acquisition. In particular, market participants 
may wish to comment on: 
 
The extent to which iNova’s phentermine products are priced in response to the 
pricing of other prescription or OTC weight-loss medication, and whether the price 
or marketing of iNova’s phentermine products has changed in response to the 
entry of other medication, or changes in price of other medication. 
 
The extent to which generic versions compete with a branded product. You may 
wish to comment on factors including: 
o The extent to which generic versions of branded products typically put 
pressure on the price of branded products. 
o Whether there are limits to market penetration that is commonly achieved 
by generic versions of a branded product and the reasons for this. 
o Whether it is common for the manufacturers of branded products to 
successfully promote to doctors that prescriptions should preclude 
pharmacists from switching to generic alternatives. 
ACCC's future steps 
72. 
As noted above, the ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on 
each of the issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue 
that may be relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. Submissions are 
to be received by the ACCC no later than 7 February 2020 and should be 
emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au. 
73. 
The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
74. 
The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 9 April 2020. However 
the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Informal Merger Review 
Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose of 
explaining the ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's public 
announcement to explain its final view. 
