Page 1 of 25 
 
Statement of Issues 
10 August 2017 
 BP – Proposed acquisition of Woolworths’ network of 
retail service station sites 
Purpose 
1. 
BP Australia Pty Ltd (BP) proposes to acquire Woolworths Limited’s 
(Woolworths) network of retail service station sites (the proposed acquisition).  
2. 
This Statement of Issues: 
 
gives the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission’s (ACCC) 
preliminary views on competition issues arising from the proposed 
acquisition 
 
identifies areas of further inquiry 
 
invites interested parties to submit comments and information to assist our 
assessment of the issues. 
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views 
3. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is 
in section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the Act). Section 50 
prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of 
substantially lessening competition in any market. 
4. 
The ACCC divides its preliminary views into three categories, 'issues of concern', 
'issues that may raise concerns' and ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’. 
Issues that may raise concerns 
5. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition may substantially lessen 
competition in retail fuel markets by: 
 
removing a strong competitor in fuel retailing with a distinct competitive 
strategy. The ACCC’s concern is strengthened by a preliminary 
assessment that Woolworths actively leads price discounting or quickly 
reacts to price discounting by other retailers 


BP Australia Pty Limited – proposed acquisition of Woolworths Limited's network of 
retail service station sites. 
 
Page 2 of 25 
 
replacing the more competitive pricing strategy currently used at 
Woolworths sites with a strategy that tends to restore earlier, discount later 
and discount less deeply 
 
enabling the remaining fuel retailers to more effectively co-ordinate price 
increases during the ‘price increase’ phase of petrol price cycles. 
6. 
In addition, the ACCC will soon publish a preliminary analysis of local markets. 
The ACCC expects that a number of local markets are likely to raise concerns.  
7. 
The ACCC is also concerned that the proposed acquisition may substantially 
lessen competition in convenience groceries, through the amalgamation of BP 
and Woolworths’ forecourt convenience offerings. 
Issues unlikely to raise concerns 
8. 
At this stage the ACCC does not consider it likely that the proposed acquisition 
will substantially lessen competition in the wholesale supply of fuel. 
Making a submission 
9. 
The ACCC is seeking submissions from interested parties, particularly on the 
following key issues: 
 
whether Woolworths is a particularly vigorous and effective competitor in 
the retail supply of fuel, whose acquisition by BP would lead to higher fuel 
prices  
 
whether the removal of Woolworths as an independent competitor would 
increase the likelihood and stability of co-ordinated conduct amongst fuel 
retailers, particularly during the price increase phase of retail price cycles 
in metropolitan markets 
 
whether the proposed acquisition would raise any concerns in relation to 
the supply of convenience groceries. 
10. 
Detailed discussion of these and other issues, along with specific questions, is 
contained in this Statement of Issues.  
11. 
Interested parties should provide submissions by no later than 5pm on 
7 September 2017. Responses may be emailed to BP-Woolworths-
Petrol@accc.gov.au with the title: Submission re: BP Woolworths - attention 
Mandy Bendelstein/Andrew Gallagher. If you would like to discuss the matter 
with ACCC officers over the telephone or in person, or have any questions about 
this Statement of Issues, please contact Mandy Bendelstein on 02 9230 3890 or 
Andrew Gallagher on 02 9230 9129. 
12. 
The ACCC plans to separately publish in September 2017 a preliminary 
screening of all relevant local areas in the vicinity of each Woolworths site, 
identifying any areas which raise preliminary competition concerns based on an 
analysis of the local market. The ACCC will seek public comment on these local 
markets at that time. 


BP Australia Pty Limited – proposed acquisition of Woolworths Limited's network of 
retail service station sites. 
 
Page 3 of 25 
13. 
The ACCC anticipates making a final decision on 26 October 2017, however, 
this timeline can change. To keep abreast of possible changes in relation to 
timing and to find relevant documents, including lists of BP and Woolworths 
sites, interested parties should visit the Mergers Register on the ACCC's website 
at www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
Confidentiality of merger review submissions 
14. 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We 
will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) 
unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation 
or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the Act. Where 
the ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, the ACCC will notify 
you in advance where possible so that you may have an opportunity to be heard. 
Therefore, if the information provided to the ACCC is of a confidential nature, 
please indicate and clearly mark it as such. Our Informal Merger Review Process 
Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
Submissions to the review of the related authorisation applications 
15. 
If the proposed acquisition proceeds, BP and Woolworths also propose to enter 
into an ongoing retail convenience, shopper docket discount and customer 
loyalty partnership (the Commercial Alliance). More information on the 
Commercial Alliance is provided at paragraph 72. 
16. 
The ACCC has received authorisation applications from BP and other parties to 
implement the Commercial Alliance. 
17. 
The process for the assessment of authorisation applications is different to the 
review of proposed mergers and acquisitions, and submissions made in relation 
to the applications for authorisation, including oral submissions, are not 
automatically treated as confidential. Submissions relating to the authorisation 
applications will be placed on the ACCC’s public register subject to any request 
for exclusion. Our Authorisation Guidelines contain further information and are 
available at: https://www.accc.gov.au/publications/authorisation-guidelines-2013.  
18. 
The ACCC undertook consultation on the authorisation applications between 
12 May 2017 and 14 June 2017. The ACCC received a number of public 
submissions from interested parties on the authorisation applications which are 
available on the Public Register, available at: 
http://registers.accc.gov.au/content/index.phtml/itemId/6031.  
19. 
The ACCC will issue a draft determination in respect of the authorisation 
applications in August 2017, at which time we will invite interested parties to 
make further comment. 
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’ 
20. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well 
as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
21. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 


BP Australia Pty Limited – proposed acquisition of Woolworths Limited's network of 
retail service station sites. 
 
Page 4 of 25 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 
Timeline  
Date 
Event 
15 March 2017 
ACCC commenced review of the proposed 
acquisition 
10 August 2017 
ACCC publication of Statement of Issues 
7 September 2017 
Deadline for submissions from interested parties in 
response to this Statement of Issues 
September 2017 
 
26 October 2017 
Planned publication of initial screening of relevant 
local markets 
Anticipated date for ACCC final decision 
 
The parties 
BP 
22. 
BP (with its related entities) is a vertically integrated refiner-wholesaler of petrol, 
diesel and automotive liquefied petroleum gas (LPG). It is engaged in the 
exploration for and production of oil, natural gas and LPG and the refining, 
transportation and marketing of petroleum and lubricant products. 
23. 
BP supplies fuel to approximately 1 400 BP-branded service stations throughout 
Australia. Of these sites, BP controls the price of all fuels at 369 sites. This 
includes 334 of BP’s own network of sites referred to by BP as ‘company-owned-
and-company-operated’ (BP COCO) and 35 ‘commission agency’ sites (BP CA). 
Additionally, BP sets the price of diesel only at a further 33 ‘diesel commission 
agency’ (DCA) sites. 
Woolworths 
24. 
Woolworths entered fuel retailing during the late 1990s, establishing service 
stations that offer fuel discounts to those purchasing groceries at its stores. 
25. 
In August 2003, Woolworths entered into an alliance with Caltex Australia Group 
(Caltex) to operate dual-branded (Caltex/Woolworths) service stations. These 
dual-branded sites are operated by Woolworths and obtain all fuels from Caltex. 
Woolworths currently operates 531 sites and has a further 12 sites currently in 
development. In addition, over 103 Caltex/Woolworths sites are operated by 
Caltex. 
26. 
The ACCC estimates that BP branded sites and Woolworths sites together make 
up approximately 27 per cent of all sites in Australia. Of that combined total, 
approximately 14 per cent are BP dealer sites.  


BP Australia Pty Limited – proposed acquisition of Woolworths Limited's network of 
retail service station sites. 
 
Page 5 of 25 
Other industry participants 
Caltex 
27. 
Caltex’s business operations include the refining, wholesaling and retailing of 
transport fuels.  
28. 
Caltex’s business operations include the retail supply of fuel through its Caltex 
owned and operated service stations. There are approximately 1 400 Caltex 
branded sites across Australia, 785 of which Caltex or its agents currently 
operate.  
7-Eleven 
29. 
7-Eleven Stores has been retailing fuel since the late 1970s. 
30. 
In 2010, 7-Eleven Stores purchased a large number of retail service stations 
from ExxonMobil, which significantly lifted its presence in fuel retailing. There are 
approximately 500 7-Eleven sites across Australia. 
United 
31. 
United is an independent, Australian-owned wholesaler and retailer of fuel, and 
convenience retailer.  
32. 
United controls terminal facilities in Victoria, New South Wales, Northern 
Territory and Tasmania which allows it to import fuel from overseas and operate 
in both wholesale as well as retail fuel markets in Australia. There are 
approximately 500 United branded sites across Australia (including some 
operated independently of United).  
Coles Express 
33. 
Coles has been retailing fuel since mid-2003, following a commercial alliance 
with Shell Australia (now owned by Viva Energy Australia Ltd), under which 
Coles became the owner of franchisee-operated dual-branded Shell service 
stations Australia-wide.  
34. 
There are approximately 700 Coles Express sites throughout Australia. 
Other fuel retailers 
35. 
Other major fuel retailers include large regional or single-state retail chains. 
These include: 
 
Peregrine, who operate as “On The Run” in South Australia (over 100 
sites) 
 
Freedom Fuels in Queensland (approximately 50 sites) 
 
Puma nationally (approximately 400 branded sites including 260 operated 
by Puma) 
 
Metro Petroleum in the Eastern states (approximately 200 branded sites) 
 
Liberty in Victoria and NSW (approximately 100 branded sites)  


BP Australia Pty Limited – proposed acquisition of Woolworths Limited's network of 
retail service station sites. 
 
Page 6 of 25 
Industry background 
Overview of Australia’s downstream petroleum industry 
36. 
Australia’s downstream petroleum industry consists of three broad levels – 
production and importing, wholesale supply and retail supply. This structure is 
depicted in the figure below. 
 
Figure 1: Australia’s downstream petroleum industry 
Refining and importing 
37. 
Petrol sold in Australia is either refined from crude oil at local refineries or 
imported as a finished product from overseas refineries. 
38. 
There are four refineries currently operating in Australia (down from eight 
refineries in 2003). They are owned and operated as follows: 
 
Corio, Geelong (Viva Energy) 
 
Kwinana, Perth (BP) 


BP Australia Pty Limited – proposed acquisition of Woolworths Limited's network of 
retail service station sites. 
 
Page 7 of 25 
 
Lytton, Brisbane (Caltex) 
 
Altona, Melbourne (Mobil). 
39. 
These four companies also operate in wholesale markets and are known as 
“refiner-wholesalers”. 
Wholesale supply 
40. 
Wholesale supply is dominated by the four refiner-wholesalers and large 
independent wholesalers including United and Puma Energy. The refiner-
wholesalers supply wholesale petrol to their own outlets as well as 
supermarkets, independent distributors and retailers. 
41. 
In 2013-14 (the latest data available) the four refiner-wholesalers supplied over 
90 per cent of wholesale petrol volumes in Australia. 
42. 
BP supplies wholesale fuel to its company-owned and company-controlled 
(COCO) sites, independent BP-branded sites and independent wholesale 
distributors (that on-sell to independent retail sites). 
Retail supply  
43. 
At the retail level, service stations supply fuel to retail customers. Service 
stations can be: 
 
supermarket operated sites (Woolworths or Coles Express) 
 
refiner-wholesaler COCO sites, where the refiner-wholesaler sets retail 
prices 
 
refiner-wholesaler commission agent sites, where the refiner-wholesaler 
typically sets retail prices 
 
refiner-wholesaler franchisee sites, where typically the franchisee sets 
retail prices, but this may be influenced by price support from the refiner-
wholesaler 
 
refiner-wholesaler branded but independently operated sites, where 
typically the independent operator sets retail prices 
 
independently owned and/or operated sites which range from large 
independent chains to single-site operations (these may be operated on a 
COCO, commission agent or franchisee basis). 
44. 
A given site may fit more than one of these categories.  
45. 
Based on ACCC monitoring, the supermarket operated sites comprise nearly 
half of Australian retail petrol sales volumes, followed by Caltex and BP.1 Since 
the early 2000s, supermarket operated sites have gained market share of sales 
                                                 
 
1 The Australian retail petrol volumes are based on data from the refiner-marketers, two supermarkets 
and 7-Eleven, Peregrine, Puma and United. It does not include other smaller independent chains or 
independent sites. 


BP Australia Pty Limited – proposed acquisition of Woolworths Limited's network of 
retail service station sites. 
 
Page 8 of 25 
volumes at the expense of refiner-wholesalers. The share of large independent 
chains has grown marginally, apart from a sharp increase in 2010-11 when 7-
Eleven and Peregrine acquired Mobil’s company-owned sites. 
Retail petrol price cycles 
46. 
Price cycles are a prominent feature of retail petrol prices in Australia’s largest 
cities. Price cycles have at least two distinct phases: 
 
a substantial increase in prices that generally occurs across a metropolitan 
area (the price increase phase)  
 
a more prolonged phase of decreasing prices (the discounting phase). 
Price increase phase  
47. 
The price increase phase is generally initiated by one or two of the major 
retailers increasing prices substantially at a number of retail sites in a 
metropolitan area (or in some cases all of their retail sites in that metropolitan 
area). If other retailers respond to this move with similar increases, then the 
increased price usually spreads across the retail networks within a metropolitan 
area. 
48. 
Some retailers follow shortly after the leader (or ‘first mover’) raises prices; 
others take longer to follow price increases (they ‘lag’ price increases). This is 
because there is a (short-term) incentive for individual retailers to delay their 
price response during the price increase phase of the price cycle, thereby 
potentially gaining a temporary increase in sales and a reputation for low prices. 
The risk for retailers who delay is that the first mover (or those that follow 
quickly) may abandon their attempt to increase prices, and return their prices to 
the previous, lower level. The longer other retailers delay in following an 
attempted price increase, the greater the potential that the first mover or early 
followers will abandon their price increase.  
49. 
Generally during the price increase phase, retailers increase prices to the same 
or a similar price point across different local areas within a city. However, in 
recent times in Melbourne (for example), the ACCC has observed some retailers 
increasing prices to a level below what was initially set by the first mover.  
Discounting phase  
50. 
In contrast, the discounting phase involves a slower process of retailers 
undercutting and matching each other’s prices on a local basis in small 
increments. 
51. 
During the discounting phase, the rate at which retailers reduce their prices from 
the cyclical peak tends to vary on a site-by-site basis depending on factors that 
include the prices of nearby sites. As a result, during the discounting phase, 
there will often be a degree of price variability between a retailer’s sites across a 
city, although the market as a whole tends to shift downwards within a price 
band.  
Informed Sources 
52. 
Informed Sources is an Australian company which collects and disseminates 
electronic retail price information in respect of unleaded petrol, diesel and LPG to 


BP Australia Pty Limited – proposed acquisition of Woolworths Limited's network of 
retail service station sites. 
 
Page 9 of 25 
its subscribers. Informed Sources subscribers can obtain near real-time petrol 
price information.  
53. 
Current subscribers to the Informed Sources service include retailers such as 
BP, Woolworths, 7-Eleven and Caltex. 
Informed Sources litigation (2012-2015) 
54. 
In May 2012, the ACCC announced that it had commenced an investigation into 
price information sharing arrangements in the retail petrol industry. On    
19 August 2014, the ACCC instituted proceedings against Informed Sources, 
BP, Caltex, Coles Express, Woolworths and 7-Eleven for alleged contraventions 
of section 45(2) of the Act by giving effect to price information sharing 
arrangements which had the effect or likely effect of substantially lessening 
competition in the retail petrol market or markets in metropolitan Melbourne. 
55. 
The ACCC alleged that the information sharing arrangements between Informed 
Sources and the petrol retailers: 
 
allowed these retailers to communicate with each other about their prices  
 
were likely to increase retail petrol price co-ordination and co-operation  
 
were likely to decrease competitive rivalry.  
56. 
The matter was resolved in late 2015 when Coles undertook to cease being a 
subscriber to the Informed Sources service and the other respondents agreed to 
make the price information available to consumers at the same time the retailers 
receive it. This data is available to consumers through the ‘Motormouth’ website 
and app.  
Alternative sources of near real-time petrol price information 
57. 
There are an increasing number of alternative sources of near real-time petrol 
price information to Informed Sources’ subscription service, including: 
 
the Western Australian and NSW government schemes, FuelWatch and 
FuelCheck (respectively); 
 
the NRMA app (a free app drawing on FuelCheck data), the GasBuddy 
app and the Petrol Spy website and app (both using crowd-sourced data); 
 
private free apps provided by petrol retailers (such as 7-Eleven and 
Woolworths). 
BP dealers 
58. 
BP dealers are third party owned and operated petrol retailers which on-sell fuel 
supplied by BP under the BP brand. BP dealers set their own retail prices for fuel 
and negotiate their own commercial contracts with non-fuel suppliers (although 
they have access to a buying group, provided by BP, for convenience products). 
59. 
The potential implications of the relationship with BP and its dealers on 
competition in retail fuel markets is examined further below at paragraphs 149 to 
153. 


BP Australia Pty Limited – proposed acquisition of Woolworths Limited's network of 
retail service station sites. 
 
Page 10 of 25 
Shopper docket discount schemes 
60. 
Shopper docket discount schemes are arrangements under which fuel discounts 
are offered to customers who make qualifying purchases typically at 
supermarkets.  
61. 
Under these arrangements, customers who make qualifying purchases at 
relevant retail outlets receive an offer for discounted fuel on their printed store 
receipt. They can then redeem the discount by presenting the receipt to 
participating fuel outlets operated by the supermarket or a fuel retailer affiliated 
with the supermarket. 
62. 
All Caltex/Woolworths sites accept redemptions of Woolworths shopper docket 
discounts. The discounts that are offered at these sites are:  
 
4 cents per litre (cpl) for $30 or more spent at Woolworths retail outlets 
 
a further 4cpl discount when $5 or more is spent in the convenience store 
at Woolworths fuel sites. 
63. 
In 2013 Woolworths provided the ACCC with a Court enforceable undertaking 
that Woolworths would not make or allow fuel discounts where those discounts 
are: 
 
not funded wholly by the fuel subsidiary or division of Woolworths 
 
greater in value than 4 cpl and, contingent on purchases of goods or 
services at a store or business separate from the retail fuel outlet (the 
Woolworths Undertaking). 
64. 
Other examples of shopper docket discount schemes in the industry include: 
 
Coles Express sites offer a 4cpl discount on fuel on condition of a 
customer spending $30 or more at Coles Group retail outlets (subject to a 
Court enforceable undertaking with the ACCC)  
 
some fuel retailers offer a 4cpl discount on fuel when customers spend $30 
or more at the IGA supermarkets in NSW, QLD, SA and VIC.  
Loyalty programs 
65. 
Loyalty programs are structured programs that reward consumers for purchasing 
goods or services from a particular retailer with points, which can be redeemed 
for discounts or free goods and services.  
66. 
Woolworths’ customers can currently earn points by making qualifying purchases 
at Woolworths’ retail outlets (including fuel outlets, but excluding Tasmanian 
retail fuel outlets). Members of the Woolworths Rewards Loyalty Scheme are 
eligible for member-only discounts at Woolworths’ group retail outlets, and 
members can also earn Qantas Frequent Flyer points. 
67. 
The earning of points is typically funded by the program partner whose goods or 
services were purchased to earn them. Conversely, the redemption of points is 
typically funded by the program operator. In the proposed Woolworths Rewards 
Loyalty Scheme, BP will pay Woolworths in respect of Woolworths Rewards 


BP Australia Pty Limited – proposed acquisition of Woolworths Limited's network of 
retail service station sites. 
 
Page 11 of 25 
points earned by customers at BP-branded sites, and Woolworths will pay BP 
when Woolworths Reward Loyalty Scheme members redeem rewards at BP-
branded sites.  
68. 
Other examples of loyalty programs in the industry include: 
 
the Myer One loyalty program, which is partnered with Caltex, credits one 
point for every dollar spent  
 
Coles and Shell are partnered with the Flybuys loyalty program which 
credits one point for every 2 dollars spent 
 
Virgin Velocity Frequent Flyer Program, which is partnered with BP across 
its retail fuel network, credits two points per one litre of fuel purchased. BP 
has sought to terminate its relationship with Velocity to give effect to the 
proposed acquisition. The matter is currently before the Supreme Court of 
Queensland.  
The proposed transaction 
69. 
BP proposes to acquire Woolworths’ network of retail service station sites which 
includes 531 sites and 12 sites under development located throughout Australia.  
70. 
If the proposed acquisition proceeds: 
 
it is intended that Woolworths’ current wholesale supply arrangement with 
Caltex will be terminated 
 
BP and Woolworths propose to enter into an ongoing retail convenience, 
shopper docket discount and customer loyalty partnership (the Commercial 
Alliance).  
71. 
As discussed above at paragraph 16 the ACCC has received authorisation 
applications from BP and other parties to implement the Commercial Alliance.  
72. 
Under the Commercial Alliance: 
 
BP and Woolworths would establish a pilot program to roll out the 
Metro@BP retail store format. The Metro@BP stores would combine BP’s 
retail fuel assets with Woolworths’ grocery and food retailing expertise, and 
is intended to provide a variety of food and meal options for consumers. If 
the pilot program is successful, BP proposes to roll out the format to more 
than 200 sites 
 
Woolworths shopper dockets would be redeemable at certain BP Sites 
(subject to authorisation being granted), including the sites BP acquires 
from Woolworths, some pre-existing BP COCO sites, and some sites 
operated by BP dealers. This discount would be partially funded by BP, 
and partially funded by Woolworths.  In order to give effect to this 
arrangement, Woolworths has sought a variation to the Woolworths 
Undertaking 


BP Australia Pty Limited – proposed acquisition of Woolworths Limited's network of 
retail service station sites. 
 
Page 12 of 25 
 
BP would join the Woolworths Rewards Loyalty Scheme as a key partner. 
Consumers will be able to earn and redeem points on fuel and 
convenience store purchases at participating BP sites. The arrangements 
of the Woolworths Rewards Loyalty Scheme are also subject to 
authorisation being granted. 
Future with and without the acquisition 
73. 
Section 50 of the Act prohibits mergers or acquisitions that would have the effect 
or be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
In assessing a proposed acquisition pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC 
considers the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future competitive 
environment post-acquisition if the acquisition proceeds (the “with” position) to 
the likely future competitive environment if the acquisition does not proceed (the 
“without” position) to determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in any relevant market. 
74. 
The ACCC considers that if the proposed acquisition did not proceed, 
Woolworths would be likely to retain its fuel business and continue to operate it 
in competition with BP. Woolworths may or may not seek an alternative 
purchaser. 
Previous ACCC decisions 
Caltex/Mobil (2009) 
75. 
In December 2009, the ACCC opposed the proposed acquisition by Caltex of the 
retail assets of Mobil Oil Australia Pty Ltd (Mobil). At the time, Caltex had a 
national network of 1826 branded or co-branded service stations, 333 of which 
were operated by Caltex or by commission agents on behalf of Caltex. Mobil had 
302 service stations.  
76. 
The ACCC analysed local areas where there was competitive overlap between a 
Caltex controlled site and a Mobil site. The ACCC formed the view that the 
acquisition by Caltex of 53 of Mobil’s retail sites would be likely to substantially 
lessen competition in local retail fuel markets. 
77. 
The ACCC also noted the price cycles that were a feature of retail petrol prices 
in major cities at the time (and still are, as discussed at paragraphs 46 to 51 
above). Petrol price cycles pose a co-ordination problem for retailers. The ACCC 
noted at the time that Caltex regularly led price increases in some cities. The 
ACCC formed the view that by increasing the retail presence of Caltex, the 
proposed acquisition would be likely to substantially lessen competition in city-
wide retail petrol markets. The ACCC concluded the proposed acquisition would 
create a greater risk of more stable and more effective co-ordinated pricing 
behaviour in the price increase phase of price cycles. 
78. 
After the ACCC opposed the proposed acquisition by Caltex, Mobil sold the 
relevant assets to 7-Eleven, subject to an undertaking to divest service stations 
in local areas where the ACCC considered that a substantial lessening of 
competition would arise.  


BP Australia Pty Limited – proposed acquisition of Woolworths Limited's network of 
retail service station sites. 
 
Page 13 of 25 
Peregrine/BP (2014)  
79. 
The ACCC announced in May 2014 its decision not to oppose Peregrine 
Corporation's proposed acquisition of 25 BP petrol retail sites in South Australia, 
after accepting a court-enforceable undertaking. The undertaking required 
Peregrine to divest three sites that it would otherwise have acquired from BP, 
and one of its existing sites. 
80. 
The undertaking addressed concerns that Peregrine’s acquisition of these sites 
could have resulted in higher fuel prices in some local areas. 
81. 
The ACCC also considered whether Peregrine's acquisition of the sites would 
have a broader impact on competition across metropolitan Adelaide, but 
concluded that any changes that may occur following the acquisition would be 
unlikely to substantially lessen competition in an Adelaide-wide market. 
Caltex/Milemaker (2017)  
82. 
The ACCC announced in May 2017 its decision not to oppose Caltex acquiring 
certain assets relating to 46 retail service stations in Victoria from Milemaker 
Petroleum (Milemaker). At the time, Milemaker was a Caltex independent 
franchisee. It owned service stations which operated under the Caltex brand and 
received wholesale supply of fuel from Caltex. Milemaker set the retail prices at 
those sites (except for diesel at 8 sites), around 30 of which are in metropolitan 
Melbourne. Caltex completed this acquisition on 9 May 2017. 
83. 
The ACCC considered that Milemaker was a vigorous competitor, leading 
discounting or quickly following its competitors in the discounting phase of the 
price cycle, and was slow to follow price increases. In contrast, the ACCC 
considered that Caltex was slower to follow price reductions (and less likely to 
lead them), and more likely to lead or quickly follow price increases. 
84. 
The acquisition removed Milemaker as an independent retail competitor in 
Melbourne. The ACCC considered that Caltex was likely to replace Milemaker’s 
strategy at the target sites with its own. The ACCC considered that the 
acquisition was likely to reduce the competitive pressure faced by Caltex and 
other retailers in metropolitan Melbourne.  
85. 
However, the ACCC considered that the lessening of competition, which was 
likely to arise from the acquisition, was not likely to be substantial because: 
 
Milemaker controlled a relatively small number of sites in Melbourne, its 
sites were branded “Caltex” and the combined market share of the parties 
was relatively low 
 
Milemaker was not the only retail chain that led or quickly followed price 
discounting, and delayed price increases 
 
there were limited areas of local overlap between Milemaker and Caltex 
sites. 
Relevant markets 
86. 
The ACCC’s starting point for delineating relevant markets, to assess the 
competitive effects of the proposed acquisition, involves identifying the products 


BP Australia Pty Limited – proposed acquisition of Woolworths Limited's network of 
retail service station sites. 
 
Page 14 of 25 
and geographic regions actually or potentially supplied by the parties to the 
transaction. The ACCC then focuses on areas of activity where competitive harm 
could occur as a result of the proposed acquisition.  
Product dimension 
87. 
Three types of fuel products are commonly sold at retail service stations in 
Australia: petrol (including regular unleaded, premium unleaded and ethanol 
blends), diesel and LPG.  
88. 
The ACCC does not consider it necessary to form a definitive view as to whether 
there are separate markets for these fuel types, or whether they should be 
considered a single market. For simplicity, the ACCC is considering the effect of 
the proposed acquisition on competition in the retail supply of petrol. 
89. 
In principle, narrower market definitions may be appropriate. In particular: 
 
consumers of fuel are generally unable to easily switch between using 
petrol, diesel and LPG. Different vehicle types use different types of fuel, 
and are not usually easily or cost-effectively adapted to use another type 
 
there may be some supply-side substitutability between diesel and petrol: 
retailers may be able to switch between supply of the two fuel types at 
relatively low cost. However, the presence of ‘truck stop’ sites catering 
primarily to commercial vehicles powered by diesel may indicate a 
separate market is appropriate, at least in respect of those customer 
segments 
 
it is difficult for a retailer to switch easily between the supply of LPG and 
petrol/diesel, due to the need to invest in different types of tanks and 
pumps. 
90. 
However, the ACCC has not at this stage identified any major issues likely to 
arise from the proposed acquisition that would affect competition for the retail 
supply of diesel or LPG, but do not affect competition in the retail supply of 
petrol.  
91. 
The ACCC welcomes input on whether the proposed acquisition is likely to raise 
any particular concerns in relation to diesel or LPG.  
Relevant fuel markets 
Local markets 
92. 
The ACCC considers that competition in local markets is an important 
determinant of retailers’ pricing decisions, particularly in the discounting phase of 
the price cycle.  
93. 
Major retail petrol chains generally set fuel prices at each of their sites centrally 
(rather than being determined by individual site managers). When setting prices 
at a site, these retailers often monitor the prices at a number of other competing 
sites in the same local area. These are commonly known as ‘marker sites’. 
Marker sites are frequently located close to the site at which the price is being 
set, hence local competition is important.  


BP Australia Pty Limited – proposed acquisition of Woolworths Limited's network of 
retail service station sites. 
 
Page 15 of 25 
94. 
As discussed further below, the ACCC plans to publicly release its preliminary 
screening of all relevant markets, identifying any which raise competition 
concerns, in September 2017. 
Metropolitan markets 
95. 
While there are areas of close local competition between fuel retailers, it is also 
helpful to also consider the competitive dynamics in fuel retailing across broader 
geographic markets.  
96. 
In metropolitan areas where retail petrol prices follow cycles, price outcomes can 
depend on behaviours of retailers across the city. As noted above, in the price 
increase phase, retailers generally increase prices to the same or a similar price 
point across the city, regardless of differences in local area competition. If a price 
increase fails to ‘stick’, it is most likely because one or more major retailers 
decide not to follow the increase on a city-wide basis. These factors suggest the 
relevant competitive constraints in these circumstances may be city-wide in 
addition to local. 
97. 
Further, in cases such as this one where the retailers have a large number of 
sites across cities, a merger or acquisition can have city-wide effects in addition 
to local effects. 
Wholesale supply 
98. 
The ACCC is also considering regional (possibly state-based) markets for the 
wholesale supply of fuel to retailers. As detailed further below, the ACCC’s 
preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to raise significant 
competition concerns in relation to the wholesale supply of fuel. 
Convenience groceries 
99. 
As discussed further below, the proposed acquisition has the potential to affect 
competition in the supply and/or acquisition of convenience groceries. These 
competitive effects may be additional to the effect on the retail supply of fuel.  
100. While many businesses might be said to offer ‘convenience groceries’, the 
ACCC’s preliminary view is that petrol stations selling convenience groceries are 
likely to be substitutable for one another for the purpose of the analysis of the 
proposed acquisition. The ACCC is considering whether this market would 
include stand-alone convenience stores that are not connected to petrol sites. A 
broader market might include supermarkets, but the ACCC considers most 
customers of convenience stores at petrol stations would not be likely to 
consider supermarkets a close substitute. 
101. In order to assess the appropriateness of this preliminary view of the relevant 
market, the ACCC is continuing to examine the extent to which the BP and 
Woolworths’ service stations compete with other retailers such as standalone 
convenience grocery stores and supermarkets.  
102. The ACCC invites comments from market participants regarding the ACCC’s 
preliminary views on relevant markets. 


BP Australia Pty Limited – proposed acquisition of Woolworths Limited's network of 
retail service station sites. 
 
Page 16 of 25 
Issues that may raise concerns: 
Issue 1 - Removing strong price discounting in retail fuel 
markets  
103. The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition may substantially lessen 
competition by removing a strong competitor in fuel retailing, with a distinct 
competitive strategy. In the future without the proposed acquisition, BP and 
Woolworths would compete with each other, each employing its own strategy. 
The proposed acquisition would replace those two distinct strategies with one 
strategy. This may have the effect of substantially lessening competition in 
metropolitan and/or local markets for the retail supply of fuel. 
104. The ACCC’s concern is strengthened by a preliminary view that Woolworths 
actively leads price discounting or quickly reacts to price discounting by other 
retailers, while BP prices less competitively. 
105. The ACCC does not consider these differences in price strategy can be 
explained only on the basis of systematic differences in the location or quality of 
the sites, the quality and range of products, or other non-price factors. Rather, 
they appear to be influenced by contrasting business models, which would not 
endure if the proposed acquisition proceeded. 
106. This concern has a number of elements that the ACCC is testing further:  
 
first, that Woolworths is a strong price competitor in retail fuel markets and 
actively leads price discounting or quickly reacts to price discounting by 
other retailers  
 
second, that BP is not as competitive on price  in retail fuel markets 
 
third, that post-acquisition, BP is likely to price the acquired Woolworths 
sites less competitively than Woolworths would 
 
fourth, that removing a strong price competitor from retail fuel markets will, 
or is likely to, substantially lessen competition. 
107. The ACCC is currently undertaking extensive analysis of retail fuel pricing and 
expects that the results of this analysis will, among other information and 
analysis, inform its final decision.  
Removal of a strong price competitor in retail fuel markets  
108. Based upon the ACCC’s inquiries and analysis to date, Woolworths appears to 
be a strong price competitor in retail fuel markets. 


BP Australia Pty Limited – proposed acquisition of Woolworths Limited's network of 
retail service station sites. 
 
Page 17 of 25 
BP’s and Woolworths’ pricing strategies 
109. The ACCC’s preliminary pricing analysis suggests that, in Melbourne2 between 
January 2015 and April 2016, Woolworths was, on average, among the cheapest 
petrol retailers and BP was more expensive than Woolworths (before taking 
shopper docket, fuel cards and other discounts into account). This appears to be 
partly the result of BP increasing prices at most of its sites before Woolworths 
during the price increase phase of the price cycles and Woolworths more often 
leading prices down or quickly following during the discounting phase of the price 
cycles.  
110. The price differential may reflect differences in the pricing strategies of BP and 
Woolworths. These differences have been identified by market participants in 
market inquiries, and can be observed in the ACCC’s preliminary analysis of 
competitor behaviour, especially in the discounting phase of the price cycle. 
111. It appears that Woolworths often initiates discounting in the discounting phase of 
the petrol price cycle, or rapidly reduces its prices in response to discounting by 
other retailers. Conversely, it appears less usual for BP to lead prices down 
during the discounting phase. 
112. Preliminary analysis of pricing by Woolworths and BP at a site level in Melbourne 
suggests that: 
 
Woolworths is more likely to undercut its local rivals than BP 
 
local rivals are more likely to respond to local discounting by Woolworths 
than BP when lowering prices at their sites 
 
Woolworths appears to discount more heavily than BP at the bottom of the 
price cycle.  
Woolworths may be a particularly influential competitor 
113. The ACCC, based on market inquiries and its preliminary analysis, considers 
that Woolworths is currently a particularly influential competitor, which may 
amplify the effect that its pricing strategy has on rivals in metropolitan markets. 
114. Woolworths’ sites tend to attract very high sales volumes, even though market 
participants do not consider that Woolworths’ sites are in particularly 
advantageous locations.  
115. Woolworths’ shopper docket offer also appears to be an important factor driving 
higher retail volumes. 
116. In addition to the impact of its own discounting strategies, Woolworths may also 
be an important transmitter of price reductions throughout metropolitan markets. 
Due to the large size of its network and the relatively high fuel volumes it sells 
per site, it appears that other retailers (many of which are slower to react to 
discounting) watch and follow Woolworths.  
                                                 
 
2  
The ACCC is not restricting its analysis to Melbourne, or suggesting that there are particular concerns 
in Melbourne as compared to other metropolitan areas. The references to only Melbourne are solely 
due to the availability of more data on Melbourne pricing at the time of publication. 


BP Australia Pty Limited – proposed acquisition of Woolworths Limited's network of 
retail service station sites. 
 
Page 18 of 25 
117. Therefore, when Woolworths reacts quickly to follow the price reduction of a 
smaller retailer with a discounting strategy, it may amplify the effect that the 
smaller retailer has on local prices. In this way, the removal of Woolworths, in 
addition to removing the effect of its own discounting strategies, may reduce the 
extent to which smaller retailers with discounting strategies impact fuel prices. 
The removal of Woolworths’ pricing strategies 
118. The ACCC is concerned that if the proposed acquisition proceeds, BP is likely to 
implement its own pricing strategies at the sites it acquires from Woolworths. BP 
would set retail prices at those sites according to its own business model and 
strategy, which differs from Woolworths’ and is associated with higher prices, as 
discussed above. This would remove the impact that Woolworths’ pricing 
strategy has on competition in many local and metropolitan markets. 
119. Previous studies of retail petrol markets by the ACCC have revealed the critical 
importance of retailers with a discounting strategy. Consumers obtain cheaper 
prices if such retailers are present. The proposed acquisition would reduce the 
number of retailers with a discounting strategy in metropolitan markets. 
120. The ACCC considers that, if BP replaces Woolworths’ pricing strategy with its 
own pricing strategy, this may lead to higher prices in retail fuel markets. The 
Woolworths sites, under BP’s control, may be more likely to lead increases, or 
follow them quickly. They would also be less likely to be proactive in the 
discounting phase.  
121. BP and Woolworths have agreed to certain fuel price competitiveness 
requirements, which would operate for a period of time after commencement of 
the Commercial Alliance. These fuel price competitiveness requirements  
constrain BP’s price setting at former Woolworths sites, and those BP 
sites which are added to the Shopper Docket Discount Scheme. In effect, they 
constrain the potential upper limits of BP’s prices in certain circumstances. 
However, the ACCC is examining the extent to which: 
 
BP is likely to alter the pricing strategies currently employed at Woolworths 
sites following the proposed acquisition  
 
there may be room for a substantial increase in price at the Woolworths 
sites, even during the period the price competitiveness requirements are in 
force 
 
the price competitiveness requirements would mitigate the effect of the 
removal of Woolworths’ pricing strategies in the long term. 
 Preliminary view – removing a strong competitor from retail fuel markets 
122. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition may substantially 
lessen competition through the removal of Woolworths, which may be a strong 
price competitor, from retail fuel markets. 


BP Australia Pty Limited – proposed acquisition of Woolworths Limited's network of 
retail service station sites. 
 
Page 19 of 25 
Issue 2 - More effective co-ordination during the price 
increase phase of petrol price cycles 
123. Based on market inquiries and its preliminary analysis to date, the ACCC 
considers that the proposed acquisition may raise competition concerns by 
increasing the likelihood of co-ordination amongst rival retailers, particularly in 
the price increase phase of metropolitan fuel price cycles. 
124. Transactions have co-ordinated effects when they weaken constraints that may 
otherwise limit firms in the market in implicitly or explicitly coordinating their 
pricing, output or related commercial decisions. A merger or acquisition may do 
so simply by reducing the number of firms among which to coordinate, by 
removing or weakening competitive constraints or by altering certain market 
conditions that make co-ordination more likely, more complete or more 
sustainable. In some cases, this may amount to a substantial lessening of 
competition. 
Co-ordinated conduct in metropolitan retail fuel markets 
125. Retail fuel markets exhibit characteristics which can be conducive to co-
ordinated conduct. These include: 
 
largely homogenous fuel products 
 
transparent pricing and the ability of retailers to monitor prices on a 
metropolitan-wide and site basis on a close to real-time basis. This is aided 
by the collection and reporting of petrol pricing information on the Informed 
Sources Oil Price Watch Service (which is made available to subscribers) 
and the monitoring of prices and use of "marker sites" on a local level by 
retailers and fuel price monitoring applications  
 
repeated interactions between retailers through frequent adjustment of 
prices 
 
the ability of retailers to retaliate to deviations from co-ordinated conduct. 
For example, retailers can change prices dynamically in response to other 
retailers’ price movements. 
126. At the bottom of the price cycle, retailers face a co-ordination problem: it is in 
their collective interest to raise prices, but each individual has an incentive to 
hold prices below their rivals’ to attract volumes. Retailers therefore appear to 
observe each other’s behaviour closely when attempting to increase prices. The 
leader of the price increase phase of the price cycle will raise prices in the 
expectation that, based on past behaviour, other retailers will recognise their 
shared interest in a higher price, and raise their own prices accordingly.  
The impact of the proposed acquisition on co-ordinated conduct 
127. In general, the ACCC considers that a proposed acquisition may make co-
ordinated conduct more likely, complete, or sustainable if it: 
 
reduces the number of firms among which to co-ordinate 


BP Australia Pty Limited – proposed acquisition of Woolworths Limited's network of 
retail service station sites. 
 
Page 20 of 25 
 
strengthens the position of a firm which is likely to promote or support co-
ordination 
 
removes a firm which is otherwise likely to disrupt co-ordination. 
128. The proposed acquisition would reduce the number of rival firms. It would also 
reduce the number of firms sharing price information through Informed Sources. 
With fewer firms, the risk of co-ordination breaking down is lower. 
129. The ACCC considers that it would also strengthen the position of BP, which, due 
to its pricing strategy, would be more likely to promote or support co-ordination, 
and remove Woolworths, which due to its discounting pricing strategy is more 
likely to disrupt co-ordination.  
130. The ACCC is aware that BP has historically led cyclical price increases in 
several metropolitan markets.  
131. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition may create a 
greater risk of more stable and more effective co-ordinated pricing behaviour in 
the price increase phase of the price cycles. 
The potential effect of co-ordination amongst fuel retailers 
132. Co-ordination could result in the following effects: 
 
In the price increase phase of the petrol price cycle – larger price 
increases, price increases earlier (i.e. discounting phases that are shorter 
and shallower), faster following of price increases by retailers during a 
price increase phase, more stable price increase phases (including less 
failed price increase attempts) and longer periods at the top of the price 
cycle. 
 
In the price increase phase of the petrol price cycle – longer periods 
before discounting commences, slower discounting through the cycle and 
shorter periods of low prices at the bottom of the price cycle.  
133. This would result in longer periods of relatively high petrol prices, and higher 
average prices overall.  
Preliminary conclusion – co-ordinated effects 
134. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition may reduce the 
intensity of competition between the remaining fuel retailers, such that they 
would be more likely to tacitly co-ordinate their behaviour. The ACCC does not 
consider that such co-ordination would necessarily require any explicit 
communication or commitment between rivals. Rather, rivals would act in their 
own self-interest, taking into account each other’s likely actions and reactions. 
By reducing the number of major rivals to take into account, this tacit co-
ordination would become easier and more stable. 
 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the above issues. In 
particular market participants may wish to comment on the following: 
 


BP Australia Pty Limited – proposed acquisition of Woolworths Limited's network of 
retail service station sites. 
 
Page 21 of 25 
a) Do the ACCC’s preliminary findings appear consistent with your 
understanding of the relative pricing position of each of the retailers 
identified and how these pricing differences manifest over the pricing 
cycle? 
b) Are there other factors that could explain the differences in pricing 
positions between retailers? 
c) To what extent do Woolworths’ competitive strategies influence the 
prices and non-price offers of other retailers? If BP raised the retail prices 
at Woolworths’ sites, would you expect to see other retailers’ prices rise 
(or not fall as quickly)? 
d) Is there anything about the particular characteristics of Woolworths’ sites 
that compels it to follow its particular pricing strategy, such that BP could 
be expected to carry on with that strategy at those sites? 
Issue 3: Ability and incentive for BP to unilaterally raise 
prices in areas of local overlap  
135. In addition to the issues raised above, the proposed acquisition has the potential 
to affect competition in local markets where the target Woolworths sites 
(including development sites) compete directly with BP sites (or are likely to do 
so).  
136. The ACCC considers that competition in local areas is an important determinant 
of retailers’ pricing decisions, particularly in the discounting phase of the price 
cycle (in markets where price cycles occur). It is therefore possible for the 
proposed acquisition to lead to a substantial lessening of competition in local 
markets, separate to the metropolitan-wide competition effects discussed above. 
137. The ACCC is currently analysing the effects of the proposed acquisition on local 
markets where Woolworths sites and BP sites are in close proximity. The ACCC 
is concerned that by removing a close local competitor, the proposed acquisition 
may provide BP with the ability and incentive to unilaterally raise prices at its 
sites. Whether this is likely to be the case will depend on, among other factors: 
 
the closeness of competition between neighbouring BP and Woolworths 
sites 
 
the presence and proximity or otherwise of other fuel retailers in the local 
area. 
138. The ACCC is currently analysing areas of local overlap between Woolworths and 
BP sites. In doing so, we take account of the preliminary concerns expressed in 
Issue 1 above, in relation to the contrasting competitive strategies of BP and 
Woolworths. These concerns have potential to amplify local market concerns. 
139. While the ACCC has in some past retail petrol matters accepted undertakings to 
divest particular sites to address local market issues, it has only done so where it 
had concluded that no substantial lessening of competition was likely to arise in 
any broader geographic market.  


BP Australia Pty Limited – proposed acquisition of Woolworths Limited's network of 
retail service station sites. 
 
Page 22 of 25 
140. The ACCC intends to publish a preliminary screening of all relevant local 
markets in September 2017.  
Issue 4: Convenience groceries  
141. BP and Woolworths both operate service station forecourt convenience offerings 
at a large number of sites. The proposed acquisition would remove competition 
between them. However, despite selling its service stations to BP, Woolworths 
plans to remain closely involved in BP’s grocery business. 
142. As mentioned previously, following the proposed acquisition, and subject to 
authorisation from the ACCC, BP and Woolworths propose to enter into a 
Commercial Alliance including for the supply of retail convenience products. A 
new retail convenience offering, called Metro@BP, would combine BP’s retail 
fuel assets with Woolworths’ grocery and food-retail offering. It would be rolled 
out at a limited number of sites initially, before potentially being rolled out more 
broadly. 
143. The ACCC’s market inquiries to date have raised various concerns in relation to 
the effect of the proposed acquisition on convenience groceries. These concerns 
include that: 
 
the proposed acquisition would merge the convenience offering at BP 
COCO and Woolworths sites, which would otherwise compete with each 
other. The proposed acquisition represents a significant consolidation 
given the number of sites involved (including potentially some third-party 
operated BP branded sites) 
 
the extension of the Shopper Docket Discount Scheme and the 
Woolworths Rewards Loyalty Scheme to BP’s service station network 
would ‘lock in’ customers to a conglomerate offer which rivals could not 
match, possibly raising barriers to entry.  
144. The ACCC is considering the extent to which these competition concerns would 
amount to a substantial lessening of competition.  
145. The ACCC understands that the convenience offering does not generally drive 
patronage to service stations (which is primarily based on fuel price, including 
shopper docket discounted price), but rather attempts to capture additional high-
margin sales from customers that have already made a decision to purchase fuel 
at the site.   
146. The ACCC recognises that the proposed acquisition is part of a commercial 
strategy by BP to improve its convenience offering. However, through the 
Metro@BP concept, the proposed acquisition can be conceived as the 
expansion of a retailer (Woolworths) which already has a strong competitive 
position in groceries more generally. This has the potential to give rise to 
competitive effects. The ACCC is continuing to consider these issues.   
147. The ACCC is also examining the extension of the Shopper Docket Discount 
Scheme and Loyalty Rewards in its review of the related authorisation 
applications by BP.  
 


BP Australia Pty Limited – proposed acquisition of Woolworths Limited's network of 
retail service station sites. 
 
Page 23 of 25 
The ACCC welcomes comments from market participants on these potential 
competition issues. In particular market participants may wish to comment on 
the following: 
a) Whether the quality of a convenience offering at a fuel retailer influences 
a consumer’s choice of fuel retailer. Please provide reasons for your 
answer such as comparisons of fuel sales volumes at a fuel retailer’s site 
before and after a convenience upgrade whether by that retailer or a 
competitor. 
b) Whether the convenience offering of fuel retailers directly competes for 
the same customers as standalone convenience stores or other grocery 
stores.  
Please provide reasons for your answer, such as examples of reductions 
in sales at standalone convenience retailers when a fuel retailer opens 
nearby or evidence of combined fuel and convenience retailers pricing by 
reference to non-fuel convenience retailers and/or supermarkets. 
Other considerations  
148. This section identifies issues which are relevant to the ACCC’s assessment of 
the potential harms described above.  
Position of third-party BP dealers   
149. BP-branded third-party owned retailers (referred to as BP dealers), account for 
approximately 1000 of the 1400 BP-branded sites in Australia (see paragraph 23 
above). Retail prices at these sites are generally set by the third-party operator 
of the site, rather than by BP.3 
150. In the ACCC’s market inquiries to date, some industry participants have 
suggested that BP dealers are not independent of BP and that this may affect 
how effectively BP dealers compete in the supply of retail fuel. 
151. BP dealers rely on BP for key services including wholesale fuel supply, access to 
fuel card sales, branding (including access to proprietary fuel types) and 
marketing. In many cases, third-party operators are contractually bound to BP for 
a certain period of time. There may be other restrictions on those operators’ 
ability to switch to another brand and wholesaler, such as the cost of rebranding. 
152. BP’s share of metropolitan (and many local) markets would be much higher if 
BP-branded third-party retailers were assumed to operate under BP’s influence. 
Even short of that assumption, the ACCC is exploring the extent to which its 
analysis should take account of how the relationships between BP and its 
dealers influence the vigour of competition between them, including on non-price 
terms. 
153. The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the ability of third-party 
BP dealers to constrain the actions of BP after the proposed acquisition.  
                                                 
 
3 Although some dealers have commission agency arrangements for diesel, enabling BP to set 
the diesel price. 


BP Australia Pty Limited – proposed acquisition of Woolworths Limited's network of 
retail service station sites. 
 
Page 24 of 25 
Likelihood of new entry/expansion 
154. The ACCC considers that due to the difficulties in obtaining suitable sites for use 
as service stations, there is a low likelihood of a new significant independent 
chain of service stations entering any metropolitan areas in the foreseeable 
future (other than through the acquisitions of existing retailers).  
155. For example, to establish new service station sites, potential entrants may need 
to obtain regulatory approvals which could take a long time. The cost of building 
a service station, including complying with environmental regulations, can also 
be high. As a result, potential entrants may be largely restricted to purchasing 
existing sites which are being sold. This may prevent the timely establishment of 
an independent chain of sufficient scale to act as an effective constraint in 
metropolitan areas. 
156. Recent examples of entry by companies such as Puma Energy (Trafigura) and 
Vitol into Australian retail fuel markets have been by acquisition of existing 
competitors rather than addition of new sites to the market. 
Issue unlikely to raise concerns: wholesale supply of fuel  
157. The ACCC has considered the impact of the proposed acquisition on the 
wholesale supply of fuel. 
158. The ACCC understands that the proposed transaction would result in large 
wholesale volumes being transferred away from Caltex, to BP. However, the 
proposed acquisition would not result in a change in the number of wholesale 
suppliers. 
159. Some market participants have suggested that, following the proposed 
acquisition, BP would have larger volumes through its own retail channel and 
therefore may have less of an incentive to provide wholesale supply of fuel at a 
competitive rate to third-party retailers. There may be potential for this to affect 
BP’s supply to third-party retailers or distributors of fuel. However, the ACCC has 
not received significant market feedback in relation to wholesale issues to date. 
160. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to 
substantially lessen competition in the wholesale supply of fuel.  
ACCC's future steps  
161. As noted above, the ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on 
each of the issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue 
that may be relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. Submissions are 
to be received by the ACCC no later than 7 September 2017 and should be 
emailed to BP-Woolworths-Petrol@accc.gov.au.   
162. The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions 
invited by this Statement of Issues, and submissions in response to its 
preliminary screening of relevant local markets (to be published in September 
2017). 
163. The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 26 October 2017. 
However the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Informal Merger 


BP Australia Pty Limited – proposed acquisition of Woolworths Limited's network of 
retail service station sites. 
 
Page 25 of 25 
Review Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose 
of explaining the ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's 
public announcement to explain its final view. 
Related authorisation applications 
164. Separately, the ACCC is planning to issue a draft determination on the 
associated authorisation applications (A91580, A91581 & A91582 BP Australia 
Pty Ltd & Ors) in August 2017. The ACCC will seek submissions from interested 
parties in response to the draft determination, and will take these submissions 
into account in preparing a final determination, which it plans to issue in 
September or October 2017.   
