 
 
A.C.C.C. NOT TO OPPOSE PROPOSED ACQUISITION OF HANS 
CONTINENTAL SMALLGOODS BY PRIMO 
 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission will not oppose the proposed 
acquisition of certain assets of Hans Continental Smallgoods Pty Ltd by P&M Quality 
Smallgoods Pty Ltd (Primo). 
 
"After extensive inquiries with market participants, the ACCC concluded that unless 
acquired by Primo, Hans would be likely to cease trading imminently and would be 
liquidated by the administrator. This position was confirmed in information provided 
by the administrator," Mr Samuel said. 
 
After a lengthy and unsuccessful sales process, the Hans business was placed into 
voluntary administration by its owner in late 2008, at which time the administrator 
commenced a further sales process. 
 
"Following exhaustive inquiries the ACCC formed the view that an acquisition by 
Primo of Hans, when compared to the situation if Primo did not acquire Hans, would 
be unlikely to result in a substantial lessening of competition," ACCC Chairman, Mr 
Graeme Samuel, said today. 
 
The ACCC has had regard to the fact that there were no alternative bids for the Hans 
business capable of being finalised prior to the administrator being required to take 
steps to close the business. This position was confirmed in advice received from the 
administrator. 
 
In addition, the ACCC conducted detailed inquiries into the likely effect on 
competition if the administrator were to close the business and auction its assets in 
order to determine whether this would be a less anti-competitive outcome than the 
acquisition by Primo. The ACCC concluded that there was only limited interest in the 
assets, and a likelihood that many of the assets would be lost to the industry 
permanently if sold at auction. Those which did remain would likely be offline for an 
extended period before they could be redeployed, affecting their efficacy as a 
competitive constraint. In these circumstances, and having regard to other 
confidential information, the ACCC considered that it was unlikely that the 
competitive situation would be much different with or without the acquisition by 
Primo. 
 
"If the Hans business had not been in imminent danger of failing, the ACCC 
considered that substantial competition concerns existed with the proposed 
acquisition by Primo," Mr Samuel said. 
 
"However, while the sale of Hans to Primo is likely to result in a reduction in 
competition compared with the current situation where Hans is operating as an 
independent competitor, following a rigorous assessment, the ACCC was satisfied 
that there was no alternative positive outcome for competition in this case. 
 


 
 
"In this instance we were satisfied that the Hans business would cease to trade 
without the acquisition by Primo. 
 
"The ACCC will assess any failing firm argument rigorously and will require clear 
information to show both that the target is likely to fail without the acquisition, and 
that this is not a better outcome for competition than an acquisition by a competitor." 
 
Primo proposes to acquire the assets of Hans Continental Smallgoods, including 
certain inventory and equipment located at the Blacktown manufacturing facility but 
excluding the Hans Fresh business (which supplies fresh pork), the Blacktown 
manufacturing facility and the Swickers (Queensland) abattoir and associated pig 
growing operations.  
 
The Hans Fresh business and Hans interest in the Swickers (Qld) abattoir and 
associated pig growing operations are proposed to be acquired by a third party, the 
Cameron Hall McLean Group.  
 
A Public Competition Assessment will be available on the ACCC's website, 
www.accc.gov.au under Mergers, in due course. 
 
Media inquiries: Ms Lin Enright (02) 6243 1108 or 0414 613 520 
General inquiries: Infocentre: 1300 302 502 
NR 32/09 
18 February 2009 
 
 
