Page 1 of 13 
 
Statement of Issues 
11 February 2021 
 MYOB – proposed acquisition of GreatSoft  
Purpose 
1. 
MYOB Invest Co. Pty Ltd (MYOB) proposes to acquire GreatSoft Pty Ltd 
(GreatSoft).  
2. 
This Statement of Issues: 
• 
gives the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission’s (ACCC) 
preliminary views on competition issues arising from the proposed 
acquisition,  
• 
identifies areas of further inquiry, and 
• 
invites interested parties to submit comments and information to assist our 
assessment of the issues. 
3. 
Statements of Issues do not refer to confidential information provided by the 
parties or other market participants and therefore may not fully articulate the 
ACCC’s preliminary position. 
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views 
4. 
In considering the proposed acquisition, the ACCC applies the legal test set out 
in section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the CCA). In general 
terms, section 50 prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to 
have the effect, of substantially lessening competition in any market. 
5. 
The ACCC divides its preliminary views into three categories, 'issues of concern', 
'issues that may raise concerns' and ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’. In this 
Statement of Issues there is one issue that may raise concern.  


MYOB – proposed acquisition of GreatSoft 
 
Page 2 of 13 
Issue that may raise concern 
Removal of a new competitor in the supply of practice management software to 
medium-to-large accounting firms 
 
• 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition may 
substantially lessen competition in the supply of practice management 
software to medium-to-large accounting firms.   
• 
Apart from GreatSoft, the only practice management products designed for 
these firms are MYOB’s Accountants Enterprise and Reckon’s APS, both 
desktop products that are currently being used by the majority of medium-
to-large firms. Xero’s Practice Manager is a cloud-based alternative for 
some of these firms, despite being designed for smaller firms.  
• 
GreatSoft is a relatively new entrant that provides cloud-based practice 
management software. Unlike most other available cloud products it is 
designed for and targeted at medium-to-large accounting firms. GreatSoft 
has already won several medium-to-large MYOB customers and market 
feedback indicates it is well placed to win more customers once firms have 
seen how it is implemented by early adopters.  
• 
While GreatSoft’s current customer base is small, the ACCC is 
investigating whether it has the potential to become a strong competitive 
constraint on the incumbents. GreatSoft appears to be a viable choice for 
the many medium-to-large firms wishing to migrate to the cloud, and 
absent the acquisition, may have the potential to grow to be a stronger 
competitor in what is currently a concentrated market.  
Making a submission 
6. 
The ACCC invites submissions from interested parties, particularly on the 
following key issues: 
• 
absent the acquisition, GreatSoft’s options and its potential to grow to be a 
strong competitor, either alone or in partnership with other firms; 
• 
whether there are alternative practice management products, which are 
being developed or have launched, which would meet the requirements of 
medium-to-large accounting firms in the short to medium term; and 
• 
whether non-accounting-specific practice management software is a viable 
alternative for medium-to-large accounting firms, now or in the short to 
medium term. 
7. 
Interested parties should provide submissions by 5pm on 5 March 2021. 
Responses may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: Submission 
re MYOB-GreatSoft - attention Lavinia de Havilland/Karina Geddes. If you would 
like to discuss the matter with ACCC staff or have any questions about this 
Statement of Issues, please contact Lavinia de Havilland on (02) 6243 3002 or 
Karina Geddes on (02) 9102 4008.  
8. 
The ACCC anticipates making a final decision on 22 April 2021, however, this 
timeline can change. To keep up with possible timing changes and to find 


MYOB – proposed acquisition of GreatSoft 
 
Page 3 of 13 
relevant documents, interested parties should visit the Mergers Register on the 
ACCC's website at www.accc.gov.au/publicregisters/mergers-registers/public-
informal-merger-reviews. 
Confidentiality of submissions 
9. 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We 
will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) 
unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation 
or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the CCA. Where 
the ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, the ACCC will notify 
you in advance where possible so that you may have an opportunity to be heard. 
Therefore, please identify any confidential information that is provided to the 
ACCC. Our Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more 
information on confidentiality. 
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’ 
10. 
A Statement of Issues is not a final decision about a proposed acquisition. A 
Statement of Issues outlines the ACCC’s preliminary views and identifies further 
lines of inquiry. 
11. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 
Practice software for accountants 
12. 
Accountants use a range of software modules to provide professional services to 
clients. 
13. 
The ‘backbone’ of an accounting firm’s practice software environment is 
generally its practice management module. At the operational level, it holds the 
firm’s client details, handles staff, job and resource planning, time recording and 
invoicing, and provides detailed financial performance reports. At the technical 
level, it integrates with many (ideally all) of the other software modules used by 
the firm, including: 
• 
Client Accounting – assists in validating client accounts and preparing 
worksheets and compliance reporting.  
• 
Tax – assists accountants in the preparation and lodgement of tax returns 
on behalf of their clients. Software developed to perform this function must 
meet Australian Tax Office requirements.  
• 
Corporate compliance – provides company formation, registration and 
Australian Securities and Investments Commission compliance functions.  
• 
Other modules – most firms also use several other software modules to 
support their firm management, including for example document 
management and customer relationship management software. 


MYOB – proposed acquisition of GreatSoft 
 
Page 4 of 13 
14. 
Ideally for accounting firms, all of these modules should integrate closely or ‘talk 
to each other’. This means that there can be a single database holding all client 
information, and a single update to that information will carry through to all 
modules. This enables the database to offer a ‘single source of truth’ regarding a 
client’s affairs. When modules are not integrated, client information like contact 
details or financial data may need to be replicated in multiple databases that 
must be updated separately and manually, leading to extra work and potential for 
error. 
15. 
The ACCC understands that for almost all accounting firms, practice 
management software must, as a bare minimum, integrate with a tax module. 
The parties 
MYOB 
 
16. 
MYOB is a privately held company that provides software solutions to 
businesses and accounting practices in Australia and New Zealand. For 
accounting practices, MYOB provides desktop-based practice software.  
17. 
MYOB offers accountant customers two desktop-based product suites through 
its practice software:  
• 
MYOB AccountantsOffice (AO), which has been developed for small and 
sole practitioner accounting practices, and  
• 
MYOB AccountantsEnterprise (AE), which has been developed for medium 
to large, multiple-partner accounting practices.  
18. 
Each of these product suites includes a desktop-based practice management 
module (in addition to document management, tax, accounting, compliance and 
other modules). There is minimal integration between MYOB’s software and third 
party suppliers’ software, so MYOB customers typically either use a suite of 
MYOB-supplied software, or mix MYOB software with third party software 
without the benefit of the integration described above. 
GreatSoft 
19. 
GreatSoft is owned by GreatSoft Proprietary Limited, a South African software 
company with 20 years of experience in providing practice solutions to medium 
and large accounting firms, including three of the Big Four accounting firms in 
Africa1.  
20. 
GreatSoft was established in Australia in 2018, although it did not officially 
launch until September 2019. The proposed acquisition was announced just over 
a year later.  
21. 
GreatSoft supplies a cloud-based practice management solution for accounting 
practices. It integrates with a range of third party software suppliers, including 
with Xero for Xero Tax. 
                                                 
 
1 GreatSoft, https://greatsoft.co.za/history-of-greatsoft/, viewed 9 February 2021; GreatSoft, 
https://greatsoft.co.za/about/, viewed 9 February 2021. 


MYOB – proposed acquisition of GreatSoft 
 
Page 5 of 13 
22. 
Most of GreatSoft’s customers and prospective customers are medium and large 
MYOB customers. We understand from a range of medium-to-large accounting 
firms that GreatSoft is attractive as it is cloud-based and designed for firms of 
their size. Additionally, it provides responsive customer service, the software has 
an established track record in South Africa, and customers trust its leadership 
team’s deep experience in the Australian market. 
The proposed transaction 
23. 
MYOB proposes to acquire 100 per cent of the share capital of GreatSoft, being 
GreatSoft South Africa’s Australian business. 
Other industry participants 
Reckon  
24. 
Reckon Limited (Reckon) is an Australian publicly listed company which 
supplies desktop-based practice software to accounting firms, which includes 
practice management, client accounting and tax compliance. It supplies Reckon 
APS for medium-to-large firms and Reckon Elite for smaller firms.  
Xero  
25. 
Xero Limited (Xero) is an ASX-listed accounting software company which was 
established in New Zealand in 2006. Xero products are now used in over 180 
countries2. It supplies cloud based accounting software for small to medium 
enterprises (SMEs) (the clients of accounting firms) and accounting firms.  
26. 
For accounting firms, Xero offers practice management, tax and accounting 
modules, and also integrates with many third parties to offer access to a full suite 
of modules required by accountants. The ACCC understands that Xero’s 
practice management software is designed for small accounting firms, though it 
is now used by a significant number of medium sized and larger accounting firms 
either with third party modifications and/or through the acceptance of certain 
functionality compromises.  
CCH iFirm 
27. 
CCH Australia Limited (CCH) provides accounting practice software and is a 
member of Wolters Kluwer, a global information services company 
headquartered in the Netherlands. CCH offers CCH iFirm, a cloud-based 
accounting practice software package for firms of all sizes, which comprises 
practice management, client accounting, document management and tax 
functionality modules. iFirm also integrates with some third party modules. 
28. 
The ACCC understands that only a limited number of larger firms use iFirm. 
Others 
29. 
The other main practice management providers are: 
                                                 
 
2 Xero, https://www.xero.com/nz/about/media/factsheet/, viewed 9 February 2021. 


MYOB – proposed acquisition of GreatSoft 
 
Page 6 of 13 
• 
Thomson Reuters, which supplies Software Assist (desktop) and Onvio 
(cloud) practice management modules; 
• 
The Sage Group, which supplies HandiSoft. Sage recently announced the 
sale of its businesses in Australia and Asia to The Access Group, a 
provider of business management software to mid-size organisations3; and  
• 
Intuit Australia, which supplies QuickBooks Online Accountant.  
30. 
All three are part of larger global companies. The ACCC understands that these 
firms’ products have generally been on the market for at least five years, have 
always been aimed at small to medium sized firms, and we are not aware of 
them being likely to target larger firms in the short term. 
Industry overview 
Needs of different accounting firms 
31. 
Different practice management software is aimed at accounting firms of different 
sizes. Medium-to-large accounting firms tend to require that more sophisticated 
features are incorporated in their practice management software than is the case 
for smaller firms. This is a result of their more complex business structures and 
processes, which is discussed in more detail in the market definition section 
below. Reckon APS, MYOB AE and GreatSoft are all targeted at medium-to-
large accounting firms. 
32. 
The largest few global accounting firms have built bespoke accounting software 
systems using non-accounting specific enterprise resource products such as 
SAP, Oracle, Microsoft Dynamics and Salesforce. 
Industry trends – modularisation and move to the cloud 
33. 
Historically, most accounting practice software providers offered ‘closed’ product 
suites that comprised all or most of the modules listed above. Firms tended to 
purchase the entire suite or most modules from a single supplier, and these 
modules typically did not integrate with third party suppliers’ modules. 
34. 
More recently, there has been an increase in specialist suppliers of specific 
cloud-based modules that only offer one or a few of the functions listed above, 
and some suppliers have opened or partially opened their software suites to 
allow for integration with these third party modules. This has allowed accounting 
firms to pick and choose the most suitable modules for their business needs, as 
they often prefer the software supplied by these specialist suppliers over the 
equivalent module in their older software suite.  
35. 
The incumbent suppliers to medium-to-large firms, MYOB and Reckon, have 
generally not opened their software suites to integration with third party software. 
Their customers typically have to either use a full suite of MYOB or Reckon’s 
software, or settle for a mix of software that is not well integrated. 
                                                 
 
3Sage, Sale of Sage businesses in Asia and Australia, 23 December 2020, 
https://www.sage.com/en-au/news/press-releases/2020/12/sale-of-sage-businesses-in-asia-
and-australia/, viewed 9 February 2021. 


MYOB – proposed acquisition of GreatSoft 
 
Page 7 of 13 
36. 
As GreatSoft only supplies practice management software, it integrates with 
other third-party providers’ modules such as tax. Its product allows customers to 
pick and choose between ‘best of breed’ third party software modules, and 
market feedback indicates that it has been flexible with building new integrations 
that its customers request. In effect, MYOB and Reckon customers who switch 
to GreatSoft gain access to a much larger selection of software for their firms.  
37. 
GreatSoft’s model leaves it dependent on third party software providers. Its 
product is only viable if it integrates with a tax module, and it is only attractive if it 
integrates with a good range of third party software. This is discussed further 
below.  
38. 
Firms are also moving from traditional desktop-based practice software to online 
‘cloud’ software. This removes the need for physical on-site servers and 
managing frequent software upgrades across many computers. Cloud-based 
software integrates more readily with other cloud-based software, is accessible 
from any browser, and is generally also built to be used on mobile devices.  
39. 
Market feedback indicates that accounting firms now have a strong preference to 
switch to cloud-based products to enjoy these benefits.  
40. 
GreatSoft and Xero’s products are cloud-based, while Reckon and MYOB’s are 
generally desktop-based. Firms using desktop software generally do not look to 
switch to another desktop product: they are typically considering either staying 
with their existing desktop software, or switching to one of the cloud-based 
solutions. Accordingly, for medium-to-large accounting firms, the main options 
for MYOB or Reckon users looking to move to the cloud are GreatSoft and Xero, 
provided that GreatSoft can continue offering integration with an effective tax 
module. The ACCC considers this is likely to be a strong driver of demand for 
GreatSoft in future. 
Previous ACCC decisions 
MYOB’s proposed acquisition of Reckon Limited’s Accountant Group 
41. 
On 29 March 2018, the ACCC issued a Statement of Issues regarding MYOB’s 
proposed acquisition of Reckon’s Accountant Group (in effect, Reckon APS and 
Reckon Elite). The ACCC raised preliminary concerns that the proposed 
acquisition would be likely to substantially lessen competition in the supply of 
practice software to medium-to-large accounting firms. The ACCC found that 
medium-to-large accounting firms require more sophisticated features from 
practice software, and that MYOB and Reckon were generally considered to be 
the only options available for those larger accounting firms. The ACCC 
discontinued its investigation after MYOB announced the proposed acquisition 
would not proceed. 
Market definition 
Whether supply to medium-to-large firms forms a distinct market 
 
42. 
The ACCC’s starting point for considering which markets will be affected by the 
proposed acquisition is to identify the areas of overlap between the products 
actually or potentially supplied by the merger parties. The ACCC then considers 


MYOB – proposed acquisition of GreatSoft 
 
Page 8 of 13 
other actual or potential suppliers of those products, as well as what other 
products constitute sufficiently close substitutes to provide a significant source of 
constraint on the merged entity. 
43. 
MYOB, through its MYOB AE product, overlaps with GreatSoft in the supply of 
practice management software to medium-to-large accounting firms (those firms 
with more than approximately 25 users, typically with multiple offices, but 
excluding the largest, global, firms).  
44. 
Market feedback is that medium-to-large accounting firms have different 
requirements to smaller firms due to their more complex structures and 
processes. For instance, larger firms are more likely to comprise multiple legal 
entities with multiple ABNs and be spread across multiple locations. Simpler 
practice management software does not allow time recording, reporting or 
invoicing by entity. Larger firms tend to require security features built into their 
practice management software, to prevent unauthorised access to information 
on certain files – these features are lacking in simpler practice management 
software. Some providers service only one of these customer groups, while the 
major providers that service both groups, MYOB and Reckon, supply separate 
products for the two groups.  
45. 
The parties submit that there is an overall Australian market for the supply of 
practice management software to firms of all sizes. This is because they 
consider that firms of varying sizes tend to choose their practice management 
software from amongst similar alternatives. In particular, Xero’s Practice 
Manager (XPM), which was designed for small firms, has also been 
implemented by a significant number of larger firms. However, the ACCC 
understands that in such cases, the firms in question have needed to implement 
technical workarounds (often assisted by third party consultants) and/or adapt to 
compromises. Few medium-to-large firms have adopted XPM ‘out of the box’ in 
the same way that smaller firms do. Conversely, while GreatSoft has attracted 
significant interest from a number of medium-to-large firms, few small firms 
appear to value the additional functionality GreatSoft offers. 
46. 
Accordingly, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the relevant market comprises 
the supply of practice management software to medium-to-large accounting 
firms. This is consistent with the ACCC’s preliminary findings in its review of 
MYOB’s proposed acquisition of Reckon’s Accountant Group in 2018. 
Whether practice management is the appropriate product segment  
47. 
The ACCC is continuing to consider whether different modules within practice 
software form separate product markets. Some firms offer a full suite of 
accounting modules. However, recently there has been an increase in the supply 
and uptake by accounting firms of individual cloud-based modules from different 
suppliers. GreatSoft is an example of this, in that it only offers a practice 
management module.  
48. 
During the MYOB / Reckon review in 2018, the ACCC found that a significant 
number of firms acquire key modules of practice software from a single supplier, 
rather than acquiring different modules from different suppliers. The ACCC 
considered there was evidence that a suite of practice software comprising 
different modules likely formed a single product market.  


MYOB – proposed acquisition of GreatSoft 
 
Page 9 of 13 
49. 
Given the change in market dynamics over the past three years however, the 
ACCC’s current view is that there are likely separate markets for specific practice 
software modules, including practice management modules. The 
competitiveness of a firm with respect to a particular module is affected by its 
ability to offer other modules, either on its own or through integration with a third 
party. For instance, the ACCC understands it is vital for a practice management 
module supplier to also offer or integrate with a tax module. 
50. 
The ACCC is also considering whether practice management will remain a 
separate and distinct piece of software in the medium term. As the market 
moves to a ‘mix-and-match’ approach to software, software modules often 
overlap in functionality. Parts of the functionality of practice management 
software are or can be provided by other software, for example client 
management, time recording / invoicing and workflow management. Although it 
appears almost all medium-to-large accounting firms currently use a practice 
management module as the backbone of their practice software environment 
and utilise most or all of its features, this may change over time, and along with it 
the competitive dynamics of these markets. 
Whether desktop and cloud-based software form separate markets 
51. 
Desktop and cloud-based practice management software largely offer the same 
functionality. However, the accessibility and interoperability of cloud software is 
driving an industry transition, and the majority of firms consider that cloud-based 
software is substitutable for desktop-based software.  
52. 
The ACCC considers that as the industry is in transition and the majority of 
accounting firms still use desktop-based software, competitive tension still exists 
between the categories of software. As such, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that 
a single market involving both cloud-based and desk-top based practice 
management software remains appropriate, although this may change in the 
medium to long term.   
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary views about 
the definition of the relevant market. In particular, market participants may wish to 
comment on: 
• 
whether a separate market exists for practice management software for medium-
to-large accounting firms, or if there is a broader market for such software which 
encompasses all sizes of accounting firms 
• 
whether different modules in practice software form separate product markets, and 
• 
whether desktop and cloud-based software form different markets. 
Issue that may raise concern: Removal of a new 
competitor in the supply of practice management software 
to medium-to-large accounting firms 
53. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition may substantially 
lessen competition in the supply of practice management software to medium-to-
large accounting firms, as GreatSoft is a new entrant that may be poised to 
expand its presence in the market. If the acquisition goes ahead, only two 


MYOB – proposed acquisition of GreatSoft 
 
Page 10 of 13 
remaining products (Reckon’s APS and XPM) would provide a moderate or close 
constraint on the merger parties.   
Loss of competition  
54. 
Based on the information currently available, the ACCC considers that MYOB 
and GreatSoft compete closely in the supply of practice management software to 
medium-to-large accounting firms. The only other product that is directly targeted 
at these customers is Reckon’s APS solution. The ACCC has received feedback 
that GreatSoft’s functionality is similar to MYOB AE and Reckon APS, and in 
contrast to those suppliers, its product is cloud-based, which opens up 
integrations with superior third party software modules and that it provides 
superior customer service. Market feedback is that GreatSoft is a viable choice 
for larger accounting firms that want to transition to the cloud.  
55. 
GreatSoft only has a minimal market share at present and the proposed 
acquisition will result in a negligible immediate aggregation of market shares. 
However, GreatSoft only officially launched in Australia in September 2019, and 
new entrants must invest significant time to convince large, sophisticated and 
risk-averse accounting firms to switch to a new-to-market product. 
56. 
The ACCC considers that GreatSoft already poses a competitive threat, and is 
investigating whether it has potential to grow significantly larger. Market 
feedback is that many firms are watching with interest how well GreatSoft works 
for its flagship customers, and may be prepared to switch once its software is 
successfully implemented by the early adopters. GreatSoft’s customer 
acquisition has been hampered by COVID shifting customer attention to 
contingency planning rather than software upgrades, and customer uncertainty 
over the proposed acquisition and this ACCC process. Absent the acquisition, 
the ACCC is of the view that GreatSoft will acquire more customers as these 
factors ameliorate.  
57. 
The ACCC continues to consider whether absent the acquisition, GreatSoft is 
likely to win enough customers over the short to medium term to become an 
effective competitor. Separately, the ACCC understands that because GreatSoft 
only offers a practice management solution, it is crucial for it to integrate with 
other modules, and in particular, a credible tax module, to be commercially 
viable. The ACCC is therefore investigating whether GreatSoft’s ongoing 
reliance on third parties, some of which are competitors, may slow its growth. 
The ACCC is keen to better understand GreatSoft’s ability to compete as a 
stand-alone practice management solution and what its options would be without 
the acquisition.  
58. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition of GreatSoft may 
represent the removal of a potentially strong competitor, which may result in 
increased prices (or a slower decline in prices), a reduction in customer service, 
or a reduction in investment in product innovation. 
Level of constraint on the merged entity from Xero 
59. 
The ACCC has received mixed feedback about XPM’s ability to satisfy the needs 
of larger firms. Some market participants advised that XPM does not provide the 
range of features they require, such as inability to handle multiple-entity 
structures, inadequate security and profile settings and reporting capabilities, 
and that Xero makes minimal effort to attract larger firms to XPM.  


MYOB – proposed acquisition of GreatSoft 
 
Page 11 of 13 
60. 
Nevertheless, XPM does supply practice management software to some 
medium-to-large firms, who either accept its limitations or invest in bespoke IT 
work to expand its functionality. XPM has likely attracted medium-to-large firms 
because: 
• 
it is cloud-based and integrates well with its attractive tax and accounting 
modules, as well as a good range of third party modules; 
• 
with bespoke IT extensions, the features it lacks for larger firms can be 
partially or fully implemented; and 
• 
until GreatSoft’s entry, Xero had been the primary cloud-based product 
option for accounting firms. 
61. 
Accordingly, despite XPM not being designed for medium to larger firms, the 
ACCC considers that Xero provides at least a moderate level of constraint to the 
merger parties in the relevant market.  
Level of constraint on the merged entity from alternative competitors 
62. 
The ACCC understands that while there are other practice management 
solutions available, these are rarely used by medium-to-large firms. 
Nevertheless, the ACCC continues to consider the level of competitive constraint 
alternative competitors are likely to place on the merger parties in the future.  
63. 
There are several international providers of accounting specific cloud practice 
management in Australia, including CCH Wolters Kluwer, Thomson Reuters, 
Intuit Quickbooks and Sage. The ACCC’s current understanding is that with the 
exception of CCH, these firms’ solutions have always been aimed at smaller 
firms, and they have almost no customers that are large firms. CCH’s iFirm is 
designed for firms of all sizes, including medium-to-large firms. However, we 
understand that it is only used by limited numbers of medium-to-large firms, and 
provides a limited competitive constraint on the main providers. 
In-house solutions 
64. 
Some of the largest accounting firms build or have considered building bespoke 
accounting software systems using enterprise resourcing or customer 
relationship management products like Microsoft Dynamics, Salesforce and 
SAP. These products are not accounting-specific, and market feedback indicates 
these systems require custom design and development (and all the IT risks that 
approach entails), separate negotiation with third party module providers for 
integration, and cost significantly more than off-the-shelf products (such as 
MYOB AE or Reckon APS). However, the ACCC understands prices appear to 
be falling in recent years. 
65. 
Market feedback has indicated that in several cases, to the extent that bespoke 
software based on these systems have been implemented by accounting firms, it 
is to handle customer relationship management only, and it integrates into the 
firm’s practice management software (generally, APS or AE).  
66. 
Additionally, outside of very large firms, accounting firms generally appear 
reluctant to take on the IT risk of developing bespoke software, and strongly 
prefer software that was designed for them. 


MYOB – proposed acquisition of GreatSoft 
 
Page 12 of 13 
67. 
The ACCC’s current view is that enterprise resourcing products are not close 
substitutes for the merger parties’ products.  
Likelihood of new entry and/or expansion 
68. 
The ACCC’s current understanding is that barriers to entry or expansion into the 
supply of practice management software to accounting firms are substantial. 
There are a range of factors that can make entry or expansion difficult. 
69. 
When considering functionality, practice management software is generic in the 
sense that there are many software solutions designed for many professional 
services industries internationally that handle client management, billing, 
workflows, etc. Market feedback, particularly from software providers, is that 
these solutions could be adopted for the Australian accounting firms fairly 
readily. However, history and the parties’ own experience has shown that there 
are technical and commercial challenges in successfully developing and 
launching a product for this market.  
70. 
At the technical or functional level, in the course of this review and the 2018 
MYOB/Reckon review, the ACCC is aware of several examples of unsuccessful 
product development in this market. One of the key reasons why suppliers have 
only achieved limited success is their software often requires accounting firms to 
substantially change the way they work.  
71. 
The historical incumbents, MYOB and Reckon, still do not appear to have cloud-
based replacements for their AE and APS products despite several years of 
market transition towards the cloud. The ACCC considers this is an indication 
that product development is difficult, even for established suppliers. 
72. 
Software suppliers would also not be able to enter Australia with only a practice 
management solution that did not integrate with an effective third party tax 
module. Therefore, potential suppliers would either need to find a tax module 
partner, or develop their own tax module, which the ACCC understands would 
involve significant investment of time and resources to develop. 
73. 
At a commercial level, a key hurdle for software suppliers is to gain the trust and 
confidence of accounting firms. It takes significant time and resources to switch 
accounting software, including costs related to data conversion, retraining staff 
and business disruption. The ACCC understands that accounting firms are 
hesitant to switch software unless a supplier can prove it has a reliable track 
record. Software suppliers therefore need to invest significant resources in 
marketing and need to gain some key customers to demonstrate to the industry 
that their product works well.  
74. 
The ACCC considers that with a history of successful operation in South Africa 
and two years after commencing Australian operations, GreatSoft has now 
largely overcome the technical hurdles and may be well placed to overcome the 
commercial hurdles. GreatSoft is particularly well placed to market to its 
customer base as its leadership team is well known to Australian firms. It would 
take another new entrant at least the same amount of time to replicate 
GreatSoft’s limited market position. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to the 
above issues. In particular, market participants may wish to comment on the following: 


MYOB – proposed acquisition of GreatSoft 
 
Page 13 of 13 
• 
absent the acquisition, the likelihood of GreatSoft growing into a strong competitor 
and the circumstances in which that may occur  
• 
absent the acquisition, the range of third party software that GreatSoft is likely to 
secure integration with, and whether it will be able to offer a commercially attractive 
range to customers 
• 
the likelihood of new cloud-based practice management products that are being 
developed or which have just launched being suitable for use by medium-to-large 
accounting firms in the short to medium term 
• 
the extent to which enterprise resource products will become increasingly viable 
options for medium-to-large accounting firms in the short to medium term, and 
• 
the likelihood of new entry and supply of practice management software to 
medium-to-large firms in the next two years. 
ACCC's future steps 
75. 
The ACCC invites submissions from market participants on each of the issues 
identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that may be relevant 
to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. Submissions should be emailed to 
mergers@accc.gov.au by no later than 5 March 2021. 
76. 
The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
77. 
The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 22 April 2021. However 
the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Informal Merger Review 
Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment explaining the ACCC's 
final view may be published following the ACCC's public announcement. 
 
 
