Page 1 of 14 
 
Statement of Issues 
28 April 2022 
 THL – proposed acquisition of Apollo  
Purpose 
1. 
Tourism Holdings Limited (THL) proposes to acquire Apollo Tourism & Leisure Ltd 
(Apollo) (the proposed acquisition).  
2. 
This Statement of Issues: 
• 
gives the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission’s (ACCC) 
preliminary views on competition issues arising from the proposed acquisition 
• 
identifies areas of further inquiry, and 
• 
invites interested parties to submit comments and information to assist our 
assessment of the issues. 
3. 
Statements of Issues do not refer to confidential information provided by the 
parties or other market participants and therefore may not fully articulate the 
ACCC’s preliminary position. 
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views 
4. 
In considering the proposed acquisition, the ACCC applies the legal test set out in 
section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the CCA). In general 
terms, section 50 prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to 
have the effect, of substantially lessening competition in any market. 
5. 
The ACCC divides its preliminary views into three categories, 'issues of concern', 
'issues that may raise concerns' and ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’.   
Issue of concern – Consolidation of the two largest suppliers of rental RVs 
6. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in the supply of motorised recreational vehicles 
(RV) for rent in Australia, and that the acquisition would give THL the ability to 
profitably increase prices and/or decrease quality or service. 


THL – proposed acquisition of Apollo 
 
Page 2 of 14 
7. 
The proposed acquisition would remove THL’s closest and largest competitor. The 
ACCC’s preliminary view is that other sources of competitive tension would not be 
sufficient to replicate the competitive tension lost by the removal of Apollo. In 
particular, our investigation to date indicates that: 
• 
other RV rental suppliers lack the scale to replace the competition lost by the 
proposed acquisition of Apollo by THL 
• 
peer-to-peer platforms do not provide a strong source of competitive 
constraint on traditional RV rental suppliers, and it does not appear that they 
are likely to in the foreseeable future. Additionally, the merged entity’s 
shareholding in Camplify, the largest Australian peer-to-peer platform, may 
dampen its incentive and ability to competitively constrain the merged entity in 
future, and 
• 
the threat of new entry or expansion by other traditional RV rental suppliers is 
not sufficient to provide a strong competitive constraint on a combined 
THL/Apollo. 
Issues unlikely to raise concerns 
Manufacturing of RVs 
8. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to 
substantially lessen competition in the manufacture of RVs due to the small scale 
of THL’s Australian manufacturing operations. 
Sale of RVs 
9. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to 
substantially lessen competition in the sale of RVs due to the small scale of THL’s 
Australian retail presence, and the presence of numerous other brands of RVs for 
sale in the Australian market. 
Making a submission 
10. The ACCC invites submissions from interested parties, particularly on the 
following key issues: 
• 
The extent to which alternative RV rental suppliers would be able to materially 
constrain and compete with a combined THL/Apollo 
• 
The degree of constraint that peer-to-peer platforms would exert in future on a 
combined THL/Apollo, and 
• 
Whether new entry or expansion is likely in the next three to five years. 
11. Interested parties should provide submissions by 5pm on 19 May 2022. 
Responses may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: Submission 
re: THL/Apollo - attention Ninad Kulkarni/Nicholas Wellfare. If you would like to 
discuss the matter with ACCC staff or have any questions about this Statement of 
Issues, please contact Ninad Kulkarni on (03) 9910 9531 or Nicholas Wellfare on 
(02) 9230 3813.  


THL – proposed acquisition of Apollo 
 
Page 3 of 14 
12. The ACCC anticipates making a final decision on 21 July 2022, however, this 
timeline can change. To keep up with possible timing changes and to find relevant 
documents, interested parties should visit the Mergers Register on the ACCC's 
website at www.accc.gov.au/publicregisters/mergers-registers/public-informal-
merger-reviews. 
Confidentiality of submissions 
13. The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We 
will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) 
unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or 
during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the CCA. Where the 
ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, the ACCC will notify you in 
advance where possible so that you may have an opportunity to be heard. 
Therefore, please identify any confidential information that is provided to the 
ACCC. Our Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information 
on confidentiality. 
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’ 
14. A Statement of Issues is not a final decision about a proposed acquisition. A 
Statement of Issues outlines the ACCC’s preliminary views and identifies further 
lines of inquiry. 
15. A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 
Recreational vehicles 
16. RVs offer flexible transport and accommodation options for travellers. There are 
two categories of RVs: 
• 
Motorised RVs (this includes motorhomes, campervans and 4WD campers) 
which combine transport and accommodation in a single vehicle, and 
• 
Towables (this includes caravans, camper trailers and other pop-up or slide 
on campers) which must be towed by another vehicle such as a car or 4WD. 
17. As neither THL nor Apollo offer ‘towables’ and traditional RV suppliers either do 
not offer them or offer only limited numbers, these are of limited relevance to the 
ACCC’s competition assessment. 
18. Within the category of motorised RVs, there are a range of vehicles of different 
sizes with different features and amenities. The terms ‘motorhome’ and 
‘campervan’ are sometimes used interchangeably, however, for the purposes of 
this document: 
• 
A ‘motorhome’ describes a more expensive vehicle, usually built on a truck or 
bus chassis with facilities that include a kitchen, toilet and shower. They tend 


THL – proposed acquisition of Apollo 
 
Page 4 of 14 
to be targeted at older couples or family groups that are seeking a more 
comfortable and mobile travel accommodation experience.  
• 
A ‘campervan’ is generally a modified van that is unlikely to include a 
flushable toilet or a shower, with cooking facilities limited to a gas cooktop. 
4WD campers are 4WDs that include expandable roof top tents. Campervans 
and 4WD campers are targeted at younger travellers (such as backpackers) 
who prioritise experience and price over comfort. For simplicity, we refer to 
both campervans and 4WD campers as ‘campervans’. 
The parties 
19. THL is a New Zealand based global tourism company operating a range of 
tourism related businesses in Australia, New Zealand, the USA and the UK. In 
Australia, its operations include RV rental, sales, and manufacturing. THL’s 
Australian rental brands are Maui, Britz and Mighty Camper. 
20. Apollo is an Australian based tourism leisure company with operations in 
Australia, New Zealand, Canada, Germany, the UK and Ireland. In Australia its 
principal activities include the manufacture, rental, sale, and distribution of RVs. 
Apollo’s Australian rental brands are Star RV, Apollo, Cheapa Campa and Hippie 
Camper. 
21. Both parties operate under a build/buy – lease – resell model, where rental 
vehicles cycle through their respective rental brands before being sold through 
their individual sales distribution channels and selected dealers.  
22. THL and Apollo also overlap through their manufacturing operations in Australia. 
Apollo manufactures the Coromal, Windsor and Talvor brands at its Brisbane 
manufacturing facilities. It also exclusively manufactures, imports, and distributes 
Winnebago branded motorhomes. THL’s manufacturing operations in Australia 
are mainly limited to the assembly, conversion and fit outs of RV components into 
existing motorhomes. 
Other industry participants 
23. THL and Apollo are the largest traditional RV rental suppliers in Australia by a 
substantial margin. Other suppliers have smaller fleets that are typically weighted 
much more heavily towards only one of motorhomes or campervans, and some 
are only present in the eastern states. 
24. Table 1 below lists the types of vehicles that each RV rental supplier offers. 
Table 1: Vehicles types offered 
Vehicles offered 
Rental supplier 
Motorhomes and campervans 
THL, Apollo, Cruisin’ Motorhomes, Let’s Go 
Motorhomes 
Campervans only 
Jucy, Wicked, Spaceships Rentals, Travellers 
Autobarn 
25. Figure 1 below presents these suppliers’ depot locations. 


Page 5 of 14 
Figure 1: RV rental industry participants 
 


Page 6 of 14 
Peer-to-peer networks 
26. Peer-to-peer networks provide platforms for private RV owners to offer their RVs 
for rent. Like Airbnb, private RV owners may be individuals renting out vehicles 
when they are not used, or professional owners with small fleets. Examples of 
peer-to-peer networks include Camplify, SHAREaCAMPER, Camptoo and 
Outdoorsy. 
27. In the past few years Camplify has emerged as the leading peer-to-peer platform 
in Australia. Camplify is ASX listed, reporting $8.4 million in revenue for FY211 
and half year results for FY22 of $6.8 million.2 In February 2022, Camplify 
reported a total of 7,338 vehicles on its platform, of which we understand the 
majority are towables.  
28. Apollo has a 17.8% shareholding in Camplify, and a Non-Executive Director seat 
on the Camplify board. Camplify has entered into an agreement with THL to 
purchase SHAREaCAMPER in return for an approximately 7% shareholding in 
Camplify which was cleared by the New Zealand Commerce Commission on 25 
March 2022. 
29. If the THL-Apollo acquisition is completed, THL would hold approximately 23% of 
Camplify’s shares and retain Apollo’s Non-Executive Director seat.  
Industry background 
Consumer demographics 
30. The RV rental industry caters to a range of consumer demographics, from young 
backpackers to families to retirees. Market feedback is that people decide to rent 
RVs for the lifestyle and flexibility they provide. 
31. Prior to the Covid pandemic, international tourists, particularly from Europe and 
the United States, were a key customer base for the industry. 
32. Market feedback indicates that travelling by RV, particularly in a motorhome, is at 
times more expensive than by car and roofed accommodation. It is often a desire 
for the experience that drives the choice of this type of holiday, rather than cost. 
Sales channels and modes of competition 
33. The ACCC understands that RV rental suppliers compete based on price 
(including one-way trip fees, early bird and other discounts), inclusions such as 
free fuel or cleaning, vehicle quality, vehicle age, vehicle availability and depot 
locations. 
34. Rentals may be booked by consumers through: 
• 
Rental suppliers, directly 
 
 
1 https://www.camplify.com/investor/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/CHL-Annual-Report-2021.pdf  
2 Camplify 1H22 half year results - https://www.marketscreener.com/quote/stock/CAMPLIFY-HOLDINGS-
LIMITED-124598232/news/Camplify-1H22-Half-Year-Results-and-Presentation-39559500/  


THL – proposed acquisition of Apollo 
 
Page 7 of 14 
• 
Travel agents (who typically in turn book the vehicle via a travel wholesaler) 
• 
Web consolidators / online travel agents 
• 
Affiliate partners such as the NRMA, RACQ, RACV and airlines 
• 
Peer-to-peer platforms. 
35. Information obtained to date suggests that in Australia, domestic customers tend 
to utilise direct bookings with rental suppliers, web consolidators, or peer-to-peer 
platforms, particularly throughout the Covid-19 pandemic.  
36. We understand that overseas travel agents are an important sales channel for 
traditional RV rental suppliers. In particular, European travel wholesalers account 
for significant sales volumes. As a consequence of Covid-19, there have been 
very few international tourists so bookings by travel agents have decreased 
significantly. As international and domestic borders continue to reopen, bookings 
made through travel agents are likely to increase.  
37. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the current level of consumer demand is not 
representative of the long-term state of the market. With international borders 
reopening, we expect international demand to increase in coming years. The 
ACCC is therefore focused on competition in the medium term as the effects of 
the Covid-19 pandemic subside. 
The proposed transaction 
38. On 10 December 2021, the parties signed a Scheme Implementation Deed under 
which THL will acquire 100% of the share of Apollo by way of a Scheme of 
Arrangement under the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth). The acquisition is subject to 
obtaining merger clearance from the ACCC and NZCC, as well as approval from 
the Foreign Investment Review Board.  
Future with and without the acquisition  
39. In assessing a proposed acquisition under section 50 of the CCA, the ACCC 
considers the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future state of 
competition if the acquisition proceeds (the ’with’ position) to the likely future state 
of competition if the acquisition does not proceed (the ‘without’ position) to 
determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to substantially lessen 
competition in any relevant market. 
40. On the basis of the information currently available, the ACCC has no reason to 
believe that Apollo would not continue to operate as a competitor to THL, absent 
the proposed acquisition. 
Market definition 
41. The ACCC’s starting point for considering which markets will be affected by the 
proposed acquisition is to identify areas of overlap between the products and 
services actually or potentially supplied by the merger parties. The ACCC then 
considers actual or potential suppliers of those products and services, as well as 


THL – proposed acquisition of Apollo 
 
Page 8 of 14 
what other products and services constitute sufficiently close substitutes to 
provide a significant source of constraint on the combined THL/Apollo. 
42. The areas of overlap between THL and Apollo are the rental, manufacture and 
sale of motorised RVs. However, the ACCC understands that there is only minor 
overlap in the manufacture and sale of RVs as THL’s Australian operations in this 
regard are small. The focus of the ACCC’s review is on the rental of RVs.  
Product dimension 
43. The ACCC considers the relevant product market to be the supply of motorised 
RV rentals, including motorhomes, campervans and 4WD campers.  
44. The ACCC has reached this preliminary view on the basis of the broad similarities 
between motorhomes and campervans for consumers, as well as broad 
similarities in infrastructure, commercial relationships and other inputs required for 
a rental supplier offering both types of vehicles for rent. In addition, THL and 
Apollo supply both vehicle types for rent.  
45. The ACCC does not consider towables or other forms of travel and 
accommodation to be part of the relevant market, for the reasons set out in the 
next section. 
46. The ACCC is still considering whether motorhomes and campervans are 
segments of a combined market or whether there may be narrower, separate 
markets for motorhomes and campervans. We are considering this from both a 
supply and demand side perspective. 
47. On the supply side, information available to the ACCC suggests there are some 
differences in the business models for renting motorhomes as opposed to 
campervans. Campervans are typically rented until they reach the end of their 
useful life. As motorhomes age, they will be resold or moved through the 
supplier’s brands. Motorhome suppliers tend to manufacture and fit out the entire 
vehicle and have established dealer sale channels to maximise overall returns 
from the business, which campervan rental suppliers generally do not. Therefore, 
campervan suppliers who do not establish such channels may be at a competitive 
disadvantage if supplying motorhomes for rent.  
48. On the demand side, market feedback has suggested that there are some 
consumers who will switch between motorhomes and campervans based on cost 
if the consumer has flexibility on the amenities they require. However, most 
consumers will choose a motorhome for the additional amenities such as a toilet, 
shower, and full kitchen that are typically not offered in a campervan. This is 
reflected in a significant gap in pricing between motorhomes and campervans. 
Market perception is that most campervan renters are younger travellers who wish 
to spend less on accommodation and transport, and more on other aspects of 
their holiday, while motorhome renters tend to be more willing to spend extra on a 
comfortable travelling experience.  
Alternative accommodation and transport options 
49. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that alternative forms of mobile accommodation 
and transport such as towables, car and roofed accommodation holidays, and 
cruises are not close substitutes to RV rentals. 


THL – proposed acquisition of Apollo 
 
Page 9 of 14 
50. Market feedback indicates that RV rental customers are attracted to RVs due to 
the distinct features of combining transport and accommodation. For example, we 
understand from travel wholesalers that the vast majority of RV rental customers 
have decided that they are taking an RV trip in Australia before visiting a travel 
agent. Market feedback suggests tourists do not consider the price of alternative 
forms of accommodation and transport when deciding on an RV holiday and that 
RV prices would need to increase by 10%-20% before tourists would consider 
switching to other types of accommodation or transport. 
51. Although there are some tourists that may switch to other forms of 
accommodation and transport if RV rentals are too expensive, the ACCC 
considers that alternative accommodation and transport options are unlikely to be 
in the same market. 
Geographic dimension 
52. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that it is appropriate to consider the effects on the 
proposed acquisition on a national market for RV rentals.  
53. Both THL and Apollo operate from all states of Australia and the Northern 
Territory. This geographic coverage is important to the success of rental suppliers 
because it allows them to re-deploy fleets around Australia to meet annual shifts 
in seasonal demand. Further, customers are able to make one-way trips, dropping 
off a vehicle at a different location to where they picked it up. 
54. However, the ACCC is also actively considering whether it is relevant to consider 
the effect of the acquisition on smaller regional markets. Competitive dynamics 
may differ in areas such as Western Australia, South Australia and Northern 
Territory where there are fewer competitors, and geographically isolated areas 
such as Tasmania. In particular, information available to the ACCC suggests that 
a higher share of rentals in Western Australia and Tasmania are return-to-base 
compared to the east coast.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary views about 
the definition of the relevant market/s. In particular, market participants may wish to 
comment on: 
• 
What factors do consumers take into account when deciding to rent either of a 
campervan or motorhome? Is one vehicle type more popular than the other? Are 
they interchangeable for some or all customers? 
• 
When setting commercial strategies, to what extent do traditional RV rental 
suppliers monitor pricing and offerings for other forms of transport, accommodation 
or holiday, for example car rental and motels? 
• 
Do RV rental suppliers’ terms and conditions place restrictions on consumers 
crossing certain borders or going more than a certain distance from the depot? 
Questions specifically for RV rental suppliers: 
• 
How do motorised RV rental suppliers determine their prices? How dynamic are 
prices, and what are the relevant variables (e.g. vehicle type, location, season, 
competitor pricing, presence and size of competitor fleets, etc.)? 


THL – proposed acquisition of Apollo 
 
Page 10 of 14 
• 
What would be involved in a campervan-focused rental supplier commencing 
supply of motorhomes for rent? 
• 
What would be involved in a motorhomes-focused rental supplier commencing or 
increasing supply of campervans for rent? 
• 
Is a dealer network to sell ex-rental vehicles necessary to maximise resale value, 
and does the answer differ between campervans and motorhomes? 
• 
Are manufacturing capabilities or strong relationships with manufacturers 
necessary to compete effectively, and does the answer differ between campervans 
and motorhomes? 
• 
What would be involved in an east coast RV rental supplier expanding to Perth, 
Darwin or other western or central locations? 
Issue of concern: Consolidation of the two largest 
suppliers of rental RVs 
55. The proposed acquisition would remove THL’s closest and largest competitor. The 
ACCC’s preliminary view is that other sources of competitive tension would not be 
sufficient to replicate the competitive tension lost by the removal of Apollo. In 
particular, our investigation to date indicates that: 
• 
other RV rental suppliers lack the scale to replace the competition lost by the 
proposed acquisition of Apollo by THL 
• 
peer-to-peer platforms do not provide a strong source of competitive 
constraint on traditional RV rental suppliers, and it does not appear that they 
are likely to in the foreseeable future. Additionally, the merged entity’s 
shareholding in Camplify, the largest Australian peer-to-peer platform, may 
dampen its incentive and ability to competitively constrain the merged entity in 
future, and 
• 
the threat of new entry or expansion by other traditional RV rental suppliers is 
not sufficient to provide a strong competitive constraint on a combined 
THL/Apollo. 
Closeness of competition between THL and Apollo 
56. The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition would remove the strongest 
competitive constraint on THL. 
57. Market participants consistently perceive THL and Apollo to be each other’s 
closest competitors for the supply of motorised RV rentals. Market participants 
estimate that THL and Apollo have between 50% and 70% combined market 
share (exclusive of rentals on peer-to-peer websites), measured by booking 
volume.  
58. Market feedback has indicated that THL and Apollo have similar brand structures 
that are positioned directly against one another. THL and Apollo also compete 
head on for customers, using the same sales channels including direct bookings, 
web aggregators and international wholesalers. Their depots are in the same 


THL – proposed acquisition of Apollo 
 
Page 11 of 14 
cities and their fleets are similar in both size and composition. Market participants 
perceive that THL and Apollo also price in similar ways through their respective 
sales channels. 
Constraint from traditional competitors 
59. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that alternative suppliers are unlikely to impose a 
sufficient degree of constraint on THL and Apollo to replace the competition lost 
by the proposed acquisition. 
60. Market feedback indicates that Cruisin’ and Let’s Go are the next closest 
competitors to THL and Apollo, and the only other traditional RV rental suppliers 
offering motorhomes. However, market participants consider that these 
competitors have significantly smaller fleets, and Cruisin’ is only present on the 
east coast. 
61. While Cruisin’, Let’s Go and other smaller competitors compete for direct bookings 
and via web aggregators, market feedback indicates that these competitors, even 
when considered together, are not a sufficient alternative for international 
wholesalers due to their smaller fleet sizes, more limited range of vehicles and 
fewer depot locations. 
62. There are a larger number of campervan-only rental suppliers in Australia, 
including Jucy and Wicked. However, these companies do not offer motorhomes, 
generally target younger, more cost focused travellers, and market feedback 
indicates that they are likely to provide a constraint on the merged entity only in 
relation to a subset of consumers. 
Constraint from peer-to-peer platforms 
63. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that motorised RVs listed on peer-to-peer 
platforms do not provide a strong constraint on traditional RV rental suppliers, and 
only compete for a subset of consumers. 
64. Peer-to-peer platforms have been in Australia for a number of years now, with 
Camplify and SHAREaCAMPER entering in 2015. Market feedback is that the 
only peer-to-peer platform that has achieved significant success in Australia is 
Camplify.  
65. Australian peer-to-peer platforms appear to have a greater focus on direct 
bookings from domestic tourists, as they do not compete for customers via 
wholesalers or web aggregators which are key sales channels for traditional RV 
rental suppliers.  
66. There are a number of factors that mean that peer-to-peer rentals are less likely to 
be suitable for international tourists, including: 
• 
Many international tourists rent RVs as part of overall travel packages that 
include flights. 
• 
One-way rentals are popular with international tourists. However, owners on 
peer-to-peer platforms may be unwilling to accept one-way rentals, or if they 
do, charge a higher fee to relocate the vehicle back to the pick-up location as 
they lack a network of depot locations that traditional RV rental companies 
have. 


THL – proposed acquisition of Apollo 
 
Page 12 of 14 
• 
Traditional RV rental suppliers provide greater certainty around vehicle 
availability due to their fleet sizes in the event a vehicle breaks down or 
requires maintenance. This may be critical for international tourists booking 
expensive, multi-week holidays planned months in advance. Owners on peer-
to-peer platforms are unlikely to have backup listings, and availability is likely 
to be limited during peak seasons. 
67. The ACCC is also considering the following factors relevant to the degree of 
constraint that peer-to-peer sites are likely to exert: 
• 
Peer-to-peer platforms are a means to connect vehicle owners with 
customers, and the platform has a limited ability to influence prices set by the 
vehicle owners. 
• 
A collection of individuals/small businesses on peer-to-peer platforms is 
unable to act cohesively in response to market conditions. For example, a 
peer-to-peer platform cannot readily adjust the number of vehicle listings or 
redeploy vehicles to other locations. 
• 
Market feedback is that owners on peer-to-peer networks are far less active in 
adjusting pricing, whereas traditional RV rental suppliers change their pricing 
based on supply and demand at least weekly. 
• 
Peer-to-peer platforms may be capacity constrained at peak holiday periods 
when individual owners may be personally using their vehicles. 
• 
One factor that traditional RV operators compete on is vehicle quality, 
replacing vehicles as they age. Peer-to-peer platforms require new listings to 
replace aging vehicles listed on their platforms. 
68. The ACCC is aware that peer-to-peer platforms are growing and adding new 
features, such as a managed service model. The ACCC will continue to consider 
the likely future state of peer-to-peer platforms and any competitive constraint they 
may exert, in particular the likelihood that these platforms will provide greater 
competition for international tourists in future. 
69. The ACCC is continuing to consider whether the 23% ownership interest that the 
parties would ultimately hold in Camplify would also dampen Camplify’s ability and 
incentive to innovate and compete with the merged entity in the future. 
Likelihood of sufficient new entry and expansion 
70. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that there is unlikely to be entry or expansion on a 
scale required to constrain a combined THL-Apollo in the foreseeable future. 
• The capital requirements for entry or expansion at scale are high, and 
• Providers need to build key relationships to support operations at scale, 
including with: 
a. 
key distribution channels, and 
b. 
manufacturing and dealer networks. 
 


THL – proposed acquisition of Apollo 
 
Page 13 of 14 
71. Although small scale entry may be achievable, the ACCC considers that large 
scale entry or expansion is less likely. The ACCC’s view is that small scale entry is 
unlikely to constrain the combined THL/Apollo due to the very limited capacity 
available from a small competitor, and the inability of small competitors to contest 
the large travel wholesaler and aggregator channels due to their small fleets and 
backend automated booking systems.  
72. The ACCC considers the capital requirements to fund the purchase of new 
vehicles is likely to limit new entry or expansion at scale, particularly for a fleet 
with a sizeable number of the more expensive motorhomes. Market feedback is 
that this is a capital-intensive industry, as significant costs are involved in 
purchasing even a medium-sized fleet. It is questionable whether anyone would 
invest these sums while international demand remains uncertain.  
73. Market participants have also identified the need to have established distribution 
channels, in particular with aggregators and travel wholesalers, as the majority of 
pre-Covid RV rental supplier sales were coming through these channels. 
Suppliers that do not currently have relationships with aggregators and travel 
wholesalers need to break into the long-established commercial relationships that 
larger RV rental suppliers currently have with large wholesalers.  
74. Market feedback indicates that it is also important for RV rental suppliers to either 
own or have partnerships with manufacturers and dealer networks in order to be 
able to procure and dispose of vehicles at scale and to maximise profits from the 
turnover of older fleets.  
75. The combined effect of the barriers mentioned above are likely to create a 
material impediment for anyone seeking to compete with the combined entity, and 
reduce the constraint that threat of new entry would exert on the combined entity.  
76. At this stage, the ACCC is unaware of any plans by existing RV rental suppliers to 
expand, or of new competitors entering at a scale sufficient to constrain the 
parties. The ACCC is aware of failed attempts at new entry or expansion in recent 
years, including years prior to the pandemic, which highlights the difficulties 
involved in entry and expansion. 
77. Market feedback is that in the short term, ongoing supply constraints including 
difficulties and wait times associated with sourcing new vehicles and parts also 
makes significant new entry or expansion very unlikely for approximately the next 
year. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on any concerns in relation to 
THL’s proposed acquisition of Apollo. In particular, market participants may wish to 
comment on the following: 
• 
Can you cite any examples where THL and Apollo reacted to each other or another 
supplier’s commercial strategy or offer? For example, matching pricing or 
introducing a similar new feature or service? 
• 
When setting commercial strategies, to what extent do traditional RV rental 
suppliers monitor pricing and offerings on peer-to-peer platforms? 
• 
Are any subsets of customers more likely to be affected by the proposed 
acquisition than others? 


THL – proposed acquisition of Apollo 
 
Page 14 of 14 
• 
Is the proposed acquisition likely to reduce consumer choice, level of quality or 
service, or innovation in the sector? 
• 
Are there any competitive disadvantages faced by an RV rental supplier who is 
only present on the east coast or in a small number of locations? 
• 
What is the likely future of peer-to-peer RV rental platforms in Australia, including 
the extent to which they are likely to compete for international tourists and the 
speed at which the platforms will continue to grow and innovate? 
• 
Is Camplify likely to face significant competition from other peer-to-peer RV rental 
platforms in Australia in future? 
• 
How have peer-to-peer RV rental websites grown overseas, and are those 
experiences relevant in Australia? 
• 
Do you have any concerns about the combined entity holding a 23% shareholding 
in Camplify, and what specific effects are you concerned about? 
• 
To what extent is financing available to establish a new RV rental business at 
scale, or to help with significant fleet expansion, and how attractive are the terms 
on which this financing can be obtained? 
• 
What is the scale that an RV rental supplier would require in order to access 
wholesaler and aggregator sales channels, and is there anything other than scale 
(such as reputation, track record, etc.) required before being accepted by 
aggregators and wholesalers?  
• 
Are there any impediments a new credible entrant at scale or an existing supplier 
seeking to expand may face in securing relationships with manufacturers and 
dealer networks? 
• 
Has RV rental interest from international tourists increased since the Australian 
border reopened, and how long it is likely to take for a return to pre-Covid levels of 
international consumers? 
• 
Do you expect domestic demand for RV rentals to decrease as international 
borders reopen? 
ACCC's future steps 
78. As noted above, the ACCC invites submissions from market participants on each 
of the issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that may 
be relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. Submissions should be 
emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au by no later than 5pm on 19 May 2022. 
79. The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions invited 
by this Statement of Issues. 
80. The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 21 July 2022. However, 
the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Informal Merger Review 
Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment explaining the ACCC's 
final view may be published following the ACCC's public announcement. 
