Market inquiries email – Tourism Holdings Limited’s proposed acquisition of Apollo 
Tourism & Leisure Ltd – 28 January 2022 
 
Dear interested party 
 
Tourism Holdings Limited (THL) proposes to acquire Apollo Tourism & Leisure Ltd (Apollo). 
We are seeking your views on this proposal because we understand your business may be 
affected, or you may have valuable insights into the relevant markets.  
 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is an independent statutory 
authority responsible for investigating whether mergers are likely to substantially lessen 
competition. 
 
The parties 
 
THL is a New Zealand Exchange listed global tourism company operating a range of tourism 
related businesses in Australia, New Zealand, the USA and the UK. In Australia, its 
operations include recreation vehicle (RV) rental, sales and manufacturing. THL’s rental 
brands in Australia are Maui, Britz and Mighty Campers. THL also owns and operates the 
peer-to-peer RV rental online platform SHAREaCAMPER. 
 
Apollo is an ASX listed tourism leisure company with operations in Australia, New Zealand, 
Canada, Germany, the UK and Ireland. In Australia, its principal activities are the 
manufacture, rental, sales and distribution of a range of RVs. Apollo’s rental brands in 
Australia are Star RV, Apollo, Cheapa Campa and Hippie Camper. Apollo also has a 
shareholding in the peer-to-peer RV rental online platform Camplify. 
 
Information we are seeking 
 
Please provide a brief description of your business and the reasons for your interest in the 
proposed acquisition, including an explanation of any commercial relationship you have with 
THL or Apollo. This will help us to better understand your views. 
 
The topics we are interested in include: 
 
1. How closely do THL’s and Apollo’s RV rental brands compete in relation to price (as 
well as inclusions and promotions), service, vehicle range, fleet size, locations and 
target customers? 
2. Who are THL’s and Apollo’s main competitors for RV rentals, and how do they 
compare in relation to price, service, vehicle range, fleet size, locations and target 
customers? 
3. Are there any locations where THL and Apollo are particularly strong or where there 
are few competitors? 
4. Are there any RV types for which THL and Apollo are especially strong in (e.g. luxury 
motorhomes)? 
5. To what extent are private RV rentals through peer-to-peer online platforms in 
competition with THL and Apollo? 
6. To what extent are alternate forms of accommodation such as motels, holiday parks 
and Airbnb in competition with THL and Apollo?  


7. What is involved in expanding or entering into rentals of RVs in order to compete 
effectively against THL and Apollo? What is the likelihood of new entry or expansion 
by an existing competitor? 
8. Do you have any views on the future of RV rental trends, particularly in light of the 
Covid-19 pandemic? 
9. Do you have any views on how closely THL and Apollo compete in the sale, resale 
and manufacture of RVs? 
10. Do you have any concerns about the likely competition effects of the proposed 
acquisition? Why/why not? 
 
How you can engage 
 
Please provide responses to our specific questions above. Please also address any other 
issues you think are relevant. We would be happy to receive your response by email, or 
have a discussion with you over the phone or via Microsoft Teams. 
 
This matter is public and you can forward this email to anybody who may be interested. 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s public mergers 
register here. 
 
If you would like to comment in writing, please do so by Friday 18 February by return email. 
Alternatively, email or call me on (02) 9230 3813 or Elizabeth Elias on (02) 6243 1104 if you 
prefer to set up a time to discuss or if you need more time to respond. 
 
The ACCC treats sensitive information it receives during a merger review as confidential, 
and will not publish your submission. We will not disclose submissions to third parties 
(except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of 
information legislation or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the 
Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, we will notify you in advance where possible so that you have an opportunity to 
be heard. Therefore please clearly indicate if any information you provide is confidential. Our 
Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
 
Kind regards, 
 
Nicholas Wellfare 
Senior Analyst | Merger Investigations | Mergers, Exemptions & Digital Division 
Australian Competition & Consumer Commission 
Level 27 | 135 King Street Sydney 2000 
T: 02 9230 3813  
www.accc.gov.au 
  
 
 
The ACCC acknowledges the traditional owners and custodians of Country throughout Australia and 
recognises their continuing connection to the land, sea and community. 
We pay our respects to them and their cultures; and to their Elders past, present and future. 
 
