 
Page 1 of 8 
 
Public Competition Assessment 
22 December 2025 
THL - proposed acquisition of Apollo  
 
The ACCC’s decision 
1. 
On 29 September 2022, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission 
(ACCC) announced its decision not to oppose the proposed acquisition by 
Tourism Holdings Limited (THL) of Apollo Tourism & Leisure Ltd (Apollo) (the 
proposed acquisition), after accepting a section 87B undertaking from THL and 
Apollo (the Undertaking). 
2. 
The Undertaking required Apollo to divest 200 (around 80 per cent) of its four to 
six berth motorhomes in its Australian rental fleet, which included the newest 
motorhomes in the fleet, and associated forward bookings to Star RV Australia 
Fleet Pty Ltd (Star RV), ultimately owned by Jucy Group (2022) Ltd (Jucy). The 
Undertaking also included divestiture of leases for Apollo’s rental branches and 
depots in Alice Springs, Darwin, Hobart and Perth, along with the Apollo Star RV 
motorhome brand. 
3. 
The ACCC considered that the proposed acquisition, taking into account the 
Undertaking, was unlikely to contravene section 50 of the Competition and 
Consumer Act 2010 (the Act). Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that would have 
the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of substantially lessening competition in 
any market. 
4. 
The ACCC considered the competitive effects of the proposed acquisition in the 
market for the supply of motorised recreational vehicles for rent in Australia. 
Without the Undertaking, the ACCC considered that the proposed acquisition 
would remove Apollo and THL as each other’s closest and largest competitor, 
and give THL the ability to profitably increase prices and/or decrease quality or 
service levels. 
5. 
This Public Competition Assessment outlines reasons for the decision by the 
ACCC not to oppose the proposed acquisition, taking into account the 
Undertaking. 
6. 
Please note that this and other public competition assessments are subject to 
the following qualifications: 


 
Page 2 of 8 
▪ 
The ACCC considers each transaction on a case-by-case basis and so the 
analysis and decision outlined in one assessment will not necessarily 
reflect the ACCC’s view of another transaction. 
▪ 
As assessments are relatively brief and do not refer to confidential 
information, assessments do not necessarily set out all of the issues and 
information considered by the ACCC.  
▪ 
The ACCC’s findings and conclusions set out in this public competition 
assessment reflect information available to the ACCC at the time of its 
decision and do not reflect developments in the industry subsequent to the 
ACCC’s decision. 
The parties and the transaction 
The acquirer: THL 
7. 
THL is a foreign company registered in New Zealand. It is headquartered in New 
Zealand and is listed on the New Zealand Stock Exchange.  
8. 
THL is a global tourism company operating a range of tourism related 
businesses in Australia, New Zealand, the United States and the United Kingdom 
at the time of the ACCC’s review. THL’s main operations in Australia relate to the 
rental of motorised recreational vehicles.  
9. 
At the time of the ACCC’s review, THL’s Australian recreational vehicle rental 
brands were Maui, Britz and Mighty Campers. These brands target different age 
and tourist demographics, from Maui as a premium offering through to Mighty 
Campers as a budget-friendly offering. According to THL’s 2022 annual report, 
THL had approximately 1200 motorised recreational vehicles in its fleet at the 
time of the ACCC’s review. 
The target: Apollo 
10. At the time of the ACCC’s review, Apollo was headquartered in Australia and 
listed on the Australian Securities Exchange with operations in Australia, New 
Zealand, Canada, Germany, the United Kingdom and Ireland.  
11. In Australia, Apollo’s principal activities were the manufacture, rental, sales, and 
distribution of recreational vehicles. At the time of the ACCC’s review, Apollo's 
Australian recreational vehicle rental brands were Star RV (premium offering), 
Apollo, Cheapa Campa and Hippie Camper (budget-friendly offering), with 
approximately 1050 vehicles in its fleet according to Apollo’s 2022 annual report.  
The transaction 
12. THL proposed to acquire shares in Apollo pursuant to a scheme of arrangement 
such that, on completion, THL would hold 100% of the shares in Apollo. 


 
Page 3 of 8 
Market inquiries 
13. The ACCC conducted market inquiries with a range of industry participants, 
including competitors, potential competitors, customers, industry bodies and 
other interested parties.  
Statement of Issues 
14. On 28 April 2022, the ACCC published a Statement of Issues on the proposed 
acquisition identifying competition concerns. In the Statement of Issues, the 
ACCC stated its preliminary view that the proposed acquisition would be likely to 
substantially lessen competition in the supply of motorised recreational vehicles 
for rent in Australia.  
Industry background 
Recreational vehicle types 
15. Recreational vehicles offer flexible transport and accommodation options for 
travellers. There are two categories of recreational vehicles: 
▪ 
Motorised recreational vehicles which combine transport and 
accommodation in a single vehicle 
▪ 
‘Towables’ including caravans, camper trailers and other pop-up or slide on 
campers, which must be towed by another vehicle such as a car or 4WD. 
16. Relevant to the ACCC’s assessment, motorhomes and campervans are the main 
two types of motorised recreational vehicles. Motorhomes are typically more 
expensive, built on a truck or bus chassis with facilities that include a kitchen, 
toilet and shower. Campervans are generally modified vans with limited cooking 
facilities, such as a gas cooktop, and do not have toilets or showers. 
17. As neither THL nor Apollo offered towables, these were of limited relevance to 
the ACCC’s competition assessment. 
Forms of competition and sales channels 
18. Recreational vehicle rental suppliers compete based on price (including one-way 
trip fees, early bird and other discounts) and other non-price elements including 
the number and locations of their depots, fleet size and vehicle availability, 
vehicle quality and age, as well as inclusions such as free fuel or cleaning. In 
particular, rental suppliers’ fleet size and number of depot locations were 
important considerations for travel wholesalers and web consolidators in order 
to cater for their customers’ preferences. 
19. Rental recreational vehicles may be booked by consumers through: 
▪ 
rental suppliers directly 
▪ 
travel agents who typically in turn book via a travel wholesaler 


 
Page 4 of 8 
▪ 
web consolidators and online travel agents 
▪ 
affiliate partners such as the NRMA, RACQ, RACV and airlines 
▪ 
peer-to-peer platforms. 
20. Prior to the Covid-19 pandemic, web consolidators, overseas travel wholesalers 
and travel agents were important sales channels for THL and Apollo. While 
domestic customers tended to utilise direct bookings with rental suppliers, web 
consolidators, and/or peer-to-peer platforms, information obtained by the ACCC 
indicated that international customers tended not to book through peer-to-peer 
platforms. International customers accounted for a significant proportion of 
THL’s and Apollo’s booking numbers prior to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
21. Information obtained by the ACCC also suggested that prior to the Covid-19 
pandemic, there was a significant proportion of consumers that booked one-way 
trips (where consumers pick up a recreational vehicle at one location and drop 
off at a different location). 
Other industry participants 
22. At the time of the ACCC’s review, THL and Apollo had the largest fleets of 
recreational vehicles by a substantial margin and the largest geographic 
footprints, with depots in every state of Australia and the Northern Territory.  
23. Other suppliers, including Cruisin’ Motorhomes, Let’s Go, Jucy and Wicked had 
smaller fleets than THL and Apollo, and their fleets were typically weighted much 
more heavily towards only one of motorhomes or campervans. Some were only 
present in the eastern states, such as Jucy and Cruisin’ Motorhomes.  
24. The following table lists the types of vehicles that each recreational vehicle 
rental supplier offered at the time of the ACCC’s review. 
Vehicles offered 
Rental supplier 
Motorhomes and campervans 
THL, Apollo, Cruisin’ Motorhomes, Let’s Go 
Motorhomes 
Campervans only 
Jucy, Wicked, Spaceships Rentals, Travellers 
Autobarn 
25. The map below sets out each supplier’s depot locations at the time of the 
ACCC’s review.


 
Page 5 of 8 
Figure 1: RV rental industry participants 


 
Page 6 of 8 
Jucy  
26. At the time of the ACCC’s review, Jucy was a campervan and car rental operator 
with depots located along the east and south coasts of Australia. 
27. At the time of the ACCC’s review, Next Capital Tourism Holdings Pty Ltd, an 
Australian independent private equity firm, held a controlling interest in Jucy. 
Peer-to-peer platforms 
28. Peer-to-peer networks provide platforms for private recreational vehicle owners 
to offer their recreational vehicles for rent. Similar to Airbnb, private recreational 
vehicle owners may be individuals (renting out vehicles when they are not used) 
or professional owners (with small fleets of vehicles). Examples of peer-to-peer 
platforms include Camplify, Camptoo and Outdoorsy. 
29. At the time of the ACCC’s review, Camplify was the leading peer-to-peer platform 
in Australia. Camplify is ASX listed, reporting $8.4 million in revenue for FY21 
and 7,338 vehicles on its platform as of February 2022, with the vast majority 
being towables. 
Market definition 
30. The ACCC’s starting point for considering which markets will be affected by the 
proposed acquisition is to identify the areas of overlap between the products 
actually or potentially supplied by the merger parties. The ACCC then considers 
other actual or potential suppliers of those products, as well as what other 
products constitute sufficiently close substitutes to provide a significant source 
of constraint on the merged entity.  
31. The primary overlap between THL and Apollo was in the supply of motorised 
recreational vehicles (including both motorhomes and campervans) for rent in 
Australia. While the ACCC did not consider it necessary to arrive at a concluded 
view on the relevant market, the ACCC considered the effect of the proposed 
acquisition in a market encompassing the supply of both motorhomes and 
campervans. While state-based or regional markets may also exist, the ACCC 
considered the effects of the proposed acquisition in a national market due to 
the national presence of THL and Apollo, the importance of a supplier’s national 
presence to customers including travel wholesalers and web consolidators, and 
the significant number of one-way trip bookings. 
Competition analysis 
32. In the absence of the Undertaking, the ACCC considered that the proposed 
acquisition would remove Apollo and THL as each other’s closest and largest 
competitor. The ACCC considered this loss of competition would have given THL 
the ability to profitably increase prices and/or decrease quality or service levels 
post-acquisition. 
33. Market feedback indicated that THL’s and Apollo’s respective brands were 
positioned directly against one another. Pre-acquisition, THL and Apollo also 


 
Page 7 of 8 
competed directly for customers using the same sales channels, including web 
consolidators and travel wholesalers as important sales channels. Their depots 
were located in the same cities, and their fleets were similar in both size and 
composition. Market participants perceived that THL and Apollo also set prices 
in similar ways. 
34. The ACCC considered that a combined THL-Apollo was unlikely to be 
constrained by other suppliers of rental recreational vehicles and peer-to-peer 
platforms as: 
▪ 
Only two other traditional recreational vehicle rental suppliers (Cruisin’ 
Motorhomes and Let’s Go) offered motorhomes, however they both had 
significantly smaller fleets than THL and Apollo. Cruisin’ Motorhomes was 
also only present on the east coast of Australia. While there were a larger 
number of campervan rental suppliers in Australia, these companies did 
not have motorhomes in their fleets. Many market participants considered 
that these suppliers were unlikely to be viable alternatives to THL and 
Apollo, particularly for travel wholesalers, due to their smaller fleet sizes, 
limited range of vehicles and limited depot locations. 
▪ 
Peer-to-peer platforms did not impose a strong constraint on traditional 
recreational vehicle rental suppliers. Peer-to-peer rentals were less likely to 
be suitable for international tourists due to customer preferences for travel 
packages that included flights, a limited availability of one-way rentals and 
less certainty around vehicle availability compared to THL and Apollo. 
35. The ACCC concluded that there was unlikely to be timely and sufficient entry or 
expansion on a scale required to constrain a combined THL-Apollo. This was 
due to the high capital requirements for sufficient entry or expansion at scale at 
a time when domestic and international travel had yet to return to pre-Covid 19 
levels, and the importance of established key relationships (including with key 
sales channels, vehicle manufacturers and dealer networks) to support 
operations at scale. 
36. The ACCC considered that, in the absence of the Undertaking, the proposed 
acquisition was likely to substantially lessen competition in the market for rental 
recreational vehicles in Australia. Further information about the Undertaking is 
set out below. 
Undertaking 
37. To remedy this concern, THL and Apollo gave a court enforceable undertaking 
pursuant to s87B of the Act. The Undertaking required THL and Apollo divest 
assets to a purchaser approved by the ACCC. The ACCC approved Star RV 
(ultimately owned by Jucy) as purchaser. 
Key obligations 
38. The Undertaking required divestiture to an ACCC-approved purchaser of: 


 
Page 8 of 8 
▪ 
200 four to six berth motorhomes, which was around 80% of Apollo’s four 
to six berth motorhomes in its rental fleet in Australia, and comprised the 
newest motorhomes in Apollo’s fleet (Apollo Australian Divestment Fleet) 
▪ 
Apollo's rights and interests in all manufacturer warranties (including all 
original equipment manufacturer warranties) applicable to all motorhomes 
comprising the Apollo Australian Divestment Fleet and an initial supply of 
consumables for motorhomes to be transferred including linen, towels, 
pots and pans 
▪ 
Apollo’s rights and interests in customer bookings for the hire of the Apollo 
Australian Divestment Fleet 
▪ 
the Star RV brand and all associated intellectual property in Australia 
▪ 
Apollo's rights and interests in the leases for rental branches/depots in 
Perth, Darwin, Alice Springs and Hobart 
▪ 
relevant records. 
Assessment of the Undertaking 
39. The ACCC considered that the Undertaking addressed the ACCC’s competition 
concerns and that the divested Apollo assets would ensure Jucy was able to 
compete more effectively with THL, including by expanding Jucy’s vehicle range, 
fleet size and depot locations. 
40. In reaching this view, the ACCC assessed the risks associated with accepting the 
remedy. In assessing the risks, the ACCC consulted with a range of market 
participants about the Undertaking.  
Conclusion 
41. Based on the above analysis, the ACCC concluded that the proposed acquisition 
of Apollo by THL, in the absence of the Undertaking, would be likely to have the 
effect of substantially lessening competition in the supply of recreational vehicle 
rentals in Australia. However, the ACCC considered that the Undertaking offered 
by THL and Apollo was likely to address the ACCC’s competition concerns in this 
market. 
