Page 1 of 15 
 
 
 
Statement of Issues 
14 December 2023 
 Endeavour Group Limited – proposed acquisition of the 
Prince Consort Hotel 
Purpose 
1. 
Endeavour Group Limited (Endeavour) proposes to acquire the Prince Consort 
Hotel located at 220-230 Wickham Street, Fortitude Valley in Queensland and 
the associated Prince Cellars liquor store located at 234 Wickham Street (the 
proposed acquisition).  
2. 
This Statement of Issues: 
• 
gives the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission’s (ACCC) 
preliminary views on competition issues arising from the proposed 
acquisition,  
• 
identifies areas of further inquiry, and 
• 
invites interested parties to submit comments and information to assist our 
assessment of the issues. 
3. 
Statements of Issues do not refer to confidential information provided by the 
parties or other market participants and therefore may not fully articulate the 
ACCC’s preliminary position. 
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views 
4. 
In considering the proposed acquisition, the ACCC applies the legal test set out 
in section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the CCA). In general 
terms, section 50 prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to 
have the effect, of substantially lessening competition in any market. 
5. 
The ACCC divides its preliminary views into three categories, 'issues of concern', 
'issues that may raise concerns' and ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’. In this 
Statement of Issues there is one “issue of concern” and three “issues unlikely to 
raise concerns.”  


Endeavour Group Limited – proposed acquisition of the Prince Consort Hotel 
 
Page 2 of 15 
Issue of concern 
6. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in the retail market for the supply of packaged 
takeaway liquor for off-site consumption in the local area surrounding Prince 
Cellars because the proposed acquisition will: 
•    remove a strong independent competitor with a local focus and increase the 
already significant concentration of Endeavour-owned stores within the 
Fortitude Valley area that also has several Coles Group Limited (Coles) 
liquor stores (Liquorland, First Choice, and Vintage Cellars).  
•    remove local competition between Prince Cellars and Endeavour’s liquor 
stores, particularly the competitive constraint of BWS Valley Central and 
BWS Fortitude Valley on Prince Cellars as the two closest alternative liquor 
stores geographically to Prince Cellars with comparable offerings.    
•    remove Prince Cellars’ differentiated offering in the local area under the Fleet 
Street banner, including its range, extended trading hours, pricing and 
promotions, and store quality.  
Issues unlikely to raise concerns 
7. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to 
substantially lessen competition in the wholesale supply of liquor to takeaway 
liquor stores and/or hospitality venues because Prince Cellars is unlikely to be of 
sufficient size to materially impact the wholesale costs of independent 
wholesalers or Endeavour.  
8. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to 
substantially lessen competition in the retail market for packaged liquor for off-
site consumption between liquor brands, also referred to as ‘chain-on-chain’ 
competition, on a regional, state, or national level. Post-acquisition there would 
continue to be several Fleet Street and other Independent Liquor Group (ILG) 
banner stores in Queensland such that the proposed acquisition would not 
materially reduce Fleet Street’s geographic presence, brand awareness, or 
group buying power.  
9. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to 
substantially lessen competition in the provision of liquor for on-site 
consumption, gaming or entertainment/dining, given the number of competitors 
in the immediate vicinity of the Prince Consort Hotel.  
Making a submission 
10. 
The ACCC invites submissions on this SOI, particularly on the following key 
issues: 
• 
the extent to which Prince Cellars competes with Endeavour-owned liquor 
stores in the local Fortitude Valley area, including on price and promotions, 
product range, quality, service, location, and store quality.  
• 
the extent to which other liquor retailers in the local Fortitude Valley area and 
surrounding suburbs compete with Prince Cellars and Endeavour-owned liquor 


Endeavour Group Limited – proposed acquisition of the Prince Consort Hotel 
 
Page 3 of 15 
stores, including on price and promotions, product range, quality, service, 
location, and store quality.  
• 
the extent to which Prince Cellars provides a differentiated retail offer from 
Endeavour-owned liquor stores and/or other liquor stores in the area and the 
importance of this differentiated retail offer to consumers.  
11. 
Interested parties should provide submissions by 5pm on 25 January 2024. 
Responses may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: Submission 
re: Endeavour/Prince Consort Hotel. If you would like to discuss the matter with 
ACCC staff or have any questions about this Statement of Issues, please contact 
Jacob Babic on (02) 9910 9405 or Fiona Kennedy on (03) 9290 1925. 
12. 
The ACCC anticipates making a final decision on 21 March 2024, however, this 
timeline can change. To keep up with possible timing changes and to find 
relevant public documents, interested parties should visit the Mergers Register 
on the ACCC’s website at www.accc.gov.au/publicregisters/mergers-
registers/public-informal-merger-reviews. 
Confidentiality of submissions 
13. 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We 
will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) 
unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation 
or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the CCA. Where 
the ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, the ACCC will notify 
you in advance where possible so that you may have an opportunity to be heard. 
Therefore, please identify any confidential information that is provided to the 
ACCC. Our Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more 
information on confidentiality. 
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’ 
14. 
A Statement of Issues is not a final decision about a proposed acquisition. A 
Statement of Issues outlines the ACCC’s preliminary views and identifies further 
lines of inquiry. 
15. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders, and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 
The parties 
Endeavour  
 
16. 
Endeavour is a major Australian alcoholic drinks retailer and hotel operator that 
operates over 1,700 retail liquor stores nationally under the BWS and Dan 
Murphy brands, as well as online via Jimmy Brings and Langton’s, wineries 
under Paragon Wine Estates and as a corporate liquor supplier under Shorty’s 
Liquor. Endeavour also manages over 330 licensed hotels across Australia 
through its subsidiary, ALH Hotels.  


Endeavour Group Limited – proposed acquisition of the Prince Consort Hotel 
 
Page 4 of 15 
17. 
Until 28 June 2021, Endeavour was a subsidiary of Woolworths Group 
(Woolworths). Endeavour separated from Woolworths via a demerger and is now 
a separately listed corporation on the ASX (ASX:EDV). 
The Prince Consort Hotel  
18. 
The Prince Consort Hotel is located at 220-230 Wickham Street, Fortitude 
Valley. The Prince Consort Hotel offers on-premises food and beverage 
consumption, live music and entertainment, gaming and wagering, and function 
services. The Prince Consort Hotel is owned by Tilley and Wills, a Sydney-based 
hospitality group with 12 venues in New South Wales and one venue (the Prince 
Consort Hotel) in Queensland. 
19. 
The associated liquor store, Prince Cellars, is located at 234 Wickham Street, 
Fortitude Valley. In addition to mainstream liquor products, Prince Cellars also 
sells Australian and imported wine, and a range of artisanal and classic spirits, 
craft beers, and pre-mixed beverages. 
20. 
The Prince Cellars liquor store trades under the Fleet Street banner which is 
operated by ILG. There are approximately 20 Fleet Street banner stores across 
New South Wales and Queensland, of which only Prince Cellars is located within 
Fortitude Valley.  
The proposed transaction 
21. 
Endeavour proposes to acquire the business assets (including the liquor licence) 
of the Prince Consort Hotel and associated Prince Cellars, and a separate 
leasehold interest from the owner of the premises. 
Areas of overlap 
22. 
Endeavour operates several BWS and Dan Murphy branded liquor stores and 
hotels in the same local area as Prince Cellars, including BWS Valley Central 
and BWS Fortitude Valley within 300 m of Prince Cellars. Figure 1 below is a 
map of the Fortitude Valley area, identifying the Prince Cellars and other liquor 
stores within a 1 km (approximately 15 minutes’ walking distance) and 1.5 km 
(approximately 20 minutes’ walking distance) radius. Figure 2 shows a closer 
area around the immediate vicinity (~300 m) of Prince Cellars.  
23. 
Endeavour currently operates 9 liquor stores within a 1.5 km radius and 7 liquor 
stores within a 1 km radius of Prince Cellars, including BWS Valley Central and 
BWS Fortitude Valley within 300 m of Prince Cellars.  


Endeavour Group Limited – proposed acquisition of the Prince Consort Hotel 
 
Page 5 of 15 
Figure 1: Local area map around Prince Cellars – 1 km and 1.5 km radius 
 
Figure 2: Close area map around Prince Cellars – 500 m and 1 km radius 
 
 
Previous ACCC decisions 
24. 
Since Endeavour’s demerger from Woolworth’s in 2021, Endeavour has 
engaged in a pattern of serial acquisitions. According to Endeavour’s annual 
reports, it has acquired at least 21 hotels over 3 years, 6 of which have been 
subject to ACCC public reviews. 
Endeavour Group Limited’s proposed acquisition of the Rye Hotel, VIC 
 
25. 
On 7 December 2023, the ACCC decided not to oppose Endeavour’s proposed 
acquisition of the Rye Hotel and associated Thirsty Camel liquor store on the 


Endeavour Group Limited – proposed acquisition of the Prince Consort Hotel 
 
Page 6 of 15 
Mornington Peninsula in Victoria. The ACCC considered the acquisition was 
unlikely to substantially lessen competition in the supply of takeaway liquor in the 
local area because the Rye Hotel Thirsty Camel did not appear to compete 
strongly on price or range, and largely attracted customers through its drive-
through convenience offering. The ACCC concluded two Thirsty Camel bottle 
shops in the local area would provide a sufficiently differentiated offering post-
acquisition. The ACCC also found that the proposed acquisition was unlikely to 
substantially lessen chain-on-chain competition between liquor stores, 
competition in the wholesale supply of liquor to liquor stores and hospitality 
venues or the provision of accommodation, liquor for onsite consumption, 
gaming and entertainment/dining.   
Endeavour Group Limited’s proposed acquisition of the Beachfront Hotel, NT 
 
26. 
On 23 February 2023, the ACCC decided not to oppose Endeavour’s proposed 
acquisition of the Beachfront Hotel in Rapid Creek, NT. The ACCC considered 
the acquisition in the local market for the retail supply of off-premise liquor and 
concluded that the acquisition was unlikely to substantially lessen competition 
because a sufficient variety of liquor stores would remain in the area post-
acquisition. The ACCC also found that the proposed acquisition was unlikely to 
substantially lessen chain-on-chain competition between liquor stores or 
competition in the wholesale supply of liquor to liquor stores and hospitality 
venues.  
Endeavour Group Limited’s proposed acquisition of each of the Beach Hotel, 
Crown Inn, Tower Hotel and Whitehorse Inn, SA 
27. 
On 23 December 2022, the ACCC decided not to oppose Endeavour’s proposed 
acquisition of the Tower Hotel and co-located Cellarbrations liquor store in 
Magill, SA and the Beach Hotel and co-located Cellarbrations liquor store in 
Seaford, SA after accepting a court enforceable undertaking offered by 
Endeavour to divest its BWS Seaford store. Endeavour also withdrew its 
proposal to acquire the Crown Inn and co-located Cellarbrations liquor store in 
Old Reynella, SA and the Whitehorse Inn and co-located Cellarbrations liquor 
store in Bolivar, SA. 
28. 
In relation to the Tower Hotel, the ACCC concluded that the acquisition was 
unlikely to substantially lessen competition in any market, including the market 
for the supply of takeaway liquor in the local area, because the acquisition 
resulted in a minor increase in market concentration and a sufficient range of 
alternative liquor retailers remained in the area to maintain competition post-
acquisition.  
29. 
In relation to the Beach Hotel, absent the undertaking to divest Endeavour’s 
BWS Seaford store to an approved ACCC purchaser, the ACCC had concerns 
the acquisition would substantially lessen competition in the supply of takeaway 
liquor in the local area because BWS Seaford and the Beach Hotel 
Cellarbrations were each other’s closest competitors and post-acquisition, 
Endeavour would not be sufficiently constrained by other liquor retailers in the 
local area. 


Endeavour Group Limited – proposed acquisition of the Prince Consort Hotel 
 
Page 7 of 15 
Market definition 
30. 
As stated in the ACCC’s Merger Guidelines, the ACCC’s starting point for 
defining relevant markets to assess the competitive effects of the proposed 
acquisition involves identifying the products and services supplied by the merger 
parties.1 The ACCC then considers what other products and services constitute 
sufficiently close substitutes to provide a significant source of constraint on the 
merged entity.  
31. 
The ACCC is considering the impact of the proposed acquisition on competition:  
• 
in the local retail market for the supply of packaged liquor for off-site 
consumption 
• 
in the wholesale supply of liquor to takeaway liquor stores and hotels/ 
hospitality venues 
• 
on chain-on-chain competition between retail liquor store chains 
• 
the retail supply of products/services available at hotels and hospitality 
venues 
Retail market for the sale of packaged liquor for off-site consumption 
Geographic scope 
32. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that local area considerations in the vicinity of 
Prince Cellars are relevant to the assessment of the competitive effects of the 
proposed acquisition.   
33. 
When assessing local retail markets, the ACCC aims to identify the competitive 
constraints on the merged firm’s retail offers at a store level. The ACCC 
considers travel time and distance between retailers of packaged liquor for off-
site consumption are important determinants of competitive constraint.  
34. 
The ACCC’s preliminary assessment has considered the effects of the proposed 
acquisition on the local market within a radius of up to 1.5 km on a straight-line 
basis from Prince Cellars. However, we consider a 1 km or narrower geographic 
market is likely to be more appropriate as Prince Cellars is centrally located in 
the entertainment precinct of Fortitude Valley, which is characterised by high 
pedestrian activity and limited parking. While this differs to previous ACCC 
approaches of a 3 to 5 km radius for some local markets, we consider the unique 
nature of the area means the number of customers travelling by vehicle is very 
limited and the distance that pedestrians are willing to walk is likely to be shorter. 
The ACCC is continuing to consider the distance customers are willing to travel 
by foot to purchase liquor and the level of constraint provided by alternative 
liquor stores located within walking distance from Prince Cellars. 
Standardised offering 
35. 
The ACCC considers competition drives non-price factors such as product 
range, staffing levels, service levels, store quality, and level of convenience. The 
ACCC understands that many liquor chains, including the Endeavour brands, 
 
 
1 ACCC, Merger Guidelines 2008 (updated 2017), paragraph 5.17. 


Endeavour Group Limited – proposed acquisition of the Prince Consort Hotel 
 
Page 8 of 15 
and other banners such as Fleet Street, standardise major elements of their 
retail offers centrally across all stores in a region, for example by setting 
consistent prices across a region. The ACCC considers centralised or 
standardised decision making, such as price setting, does not mean that local 
competition conditions are not important. Furthermore, different liquor chains 
with varying footprints face different strategic trade-offs and incentives regarding 
the level of standardisation, which can change overtime or as a result of 
acquisitions.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary views about 
the definition of the relevant local market. In particular, market participants may wish to 
comment on: 
• 
the proportion of customers in the Fortitude Valley area and entertainment precinct 
travelling by foot and by vehicle. 
• 
the distance customers typically travel to visit liquor stores in the local area and the 
factors that influence how far a customer will travel. 
• 
the extent to which customers view liquor stores in New Farm, Teneriffe, 
Newstead, Bowen Hills, and Spring Hill as substitutes for Prince Cellars. 
• 
the impact of standardised offerings, for example state-wide pricing, on local 
competition.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the relevant markets for 
considering chain-on-chain competition between liquor store chains and the market for 
the wholesale supply of liquor. 
Issue of concern: reduction in local competition in the 
retail supply of packaged liquor for off-site consumption 
36. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in the retail market for the supply of packaged 
liquor for off-site consumption because it would:  
• 
increase the already significant concentration of Endeavour-owned liquor 
stores in the local Fortitude Valley area with limited independent 
alternatives. 
• 
remove local competition between Prince Cellars and Endeavour’s liquor 
stores, including the loss of Prince Cellars’ competitive response to local 
BWS stores, and where other liquor retailers in the local area appear 
unlikely to provide a significant competitive constraint on Endeavour post-
acquisition. 
• 
reduce consumer choice in the local area by removing Prince Cellars’ 
independent and differentiated offering including its range, extended 
trading hours, pricing and promotional cycles, and store quality. 


Endeavour Group Limited – proposed acquisition of the Prince Consort Hotel 
 
Page 9 of 15 
Market concentration 
37. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition would increase the 
already high concentration of Endeavour-owned liquor stores in the local 
Fortitude Valley area, which also has a significant presence of Coles-owned 
liquor stores and will remove an important independent competitor with a local 
focus. This is because: 
• 
Endeavour would operate 3 takeaway liquor stores within 300 m of each 
other, 3 of 4 stores within a 10 minute walk of Prince Cellars, and 6 of 11 
stores within a 15 minute walk of Prince Cellars in a popular area with 
significant foot traffic.  
• 
Further, Endeavour would operate 8 of 13 takeaway liquor stores within 1 
km of Prince Cellars and 10 of 23 takeaway liquor stores within 1.5 km of 
Prince Cellars. 
• 
The proposed acquisition would remove Prince Cellars as one of 4 
independent takeaway liquor stores within 1 km of Prince Cellars.  
• 
The liquor licence associated with the Prince Consort Hotel would give 
Endeavour the potential to operate an additional 2 liquor stores within the 
local area. 
• 
The proposed acquisition would remove the largest independent competitor 
by estimated weekly sales within 1 km of Prince Cellars. 
Nearby BWS stores are likely to be Prince Cellars’ closest competitors 
38. 
Market participants have indicated Prince Cellars competes closely with, and is 
competitively constrained by, Endeavour’s liquor stores in the local area, 
particularly BWS Valley Central and BWS Fortitude Valley as the two closest 
alternative liquor stores within 300 m of Prince Cellars. These BWS sites are 
closer to Prince Cellars than any other takeaway liquor stores in the area.  
39. 
Further, the ACCC’s investigation indicates Prince Cellars and the local BWS 
stores offer a similar range of core products, including a diverse selection of 
beer, cider, wine, spirits, and ready-to-drink and non-alcoholic beverages in 
various package sizes. Market feedback has indicated Prince Cellars also offers 
alternative promotions and differentiates itself in response to nearby liquor stores 
such as BWS Valley Central and BWS Fortitude Valley.  
40. 
We understand Prince Cellars caters to customers looking to purchase 
mainstream and premium products such as medium to high end wines and local 
craft beers, and those looking for convenience given its location and unique 
extended trading hours of 10am to midnight daily. The BWS Valley Central also 
offers convenience for commuters using the local train station or customers 
shopping at the adjoining Woolworths Metro store, and BWS Fortitude Valley is a 
smaller format store that stocks popular product ranges across various price 
points. The ACCC considers these stores are likely to compete closely given 
their geographic proximity and the type and range of products supplied and that 
Prince Cellars competitively responds to BWS Valley Central and BWS Fortitude 
Valley, such that this constraint will be lost with the acquisition. 


Endeavour Group Limited – proposed acquisition of the Prince Consort Hotel 
 
Page 10 of 15 
41. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that local BWS stores, particularly BWS Valley 
Central and BWS Fortitude Valley, likely provide the largest constraint on Prince 
Cellars including through its promotional cycles, range, and service levels, that 
will be lost with the acquisition, as discussed below. 
Competitive constraint from alternative liquor stores in the local area 
42. 
As discussed above, the ACCC considers the geographic market is likely to be 
narrow given the high pedestrian activity and limited parking in the Fortitude 
Valley area, and entertainment precinct, surrounding Prince Cellars. The ACCC 
considers pedestrian customers are more likely to travel to alternative liquor 
stores located up to 1 km (approximately 15 minutes’ walking distance) from 
Prince Cellars. Five competing liquor stores will remain within 1 km of Prince 
Cellars, including: 
• 
CRU Bar and Cellar, approximately 600 m on a straight-line basis and 10 
minutes’ walk from Prince Cellars, which has an extensive wine offering and 
some limited beer, sprits, and sake available for takeaway.  
• 
Black Sheep Bottle Shop Bowen Hills, approximately 600 m on a straight-line 
basis and 11 minutes’ walk from Prince Cellars, with a mid-premium range of 
wine, beer, cider, spirits and pre-mixed beverages. 
• 
James St Bottle Shop, approximately 800 m on a straight-line basis and 15 
minutes’ walk from Prince Cellars with a standard range of wine, beer, cider, 
spirits and pre-mixed beverages.  
• 
First Choice Liquor (Coles-owned), approximately 1 km on a straight-line basis 
and 15 minutes’ walk from Prince Cellars whose big-box liquor offering would 
likely compete more with Dan Murphy’s in Newstead rather than the 
convenience liquor stores located in the centre of Fortitude Valley.  
• 
Vintage Cellars Spring Hill (Coles-owned), approximately 650 m on a straight-
line basis and 10 minutes’ walk from Prince Cellars with a fairly comparable 
offering of wine, beer, cider, spirits and pre-mixed beverages. 
43. 
Market feedback has indicated that these stores may not materially constrain 
Prince Cellars. This includes because these stores are located further away from 
the target and are not centrally located within the Fortitude Valley entertainment 
precinct or along routes typically travelled by the majority of Prince Cellars’ 
customers. These alternatives may be in a less convenient location for many 
customers given the impediments to non-pedestrians, including limited parking in 
the area. 
44. 
There are 8 additional alternative retailers within 1.5 km of Prince Cellars for 
customers travelling by vehicle, including:  
• 
Bowen Hills Beer Mart, approximately 1.5 km (6 minutes’ drive) from Prince 
Cellars. Bowen Hills Beer Mart is a specialty beer shop, with a particular focus 
on craft beer, and some wine and cider.  
• 
Cellarbrations Fortitude Valley, approximately 1.1 km on a straight-line basis (4 
minutes’ drive) from Prince Cellars and located next to ALDI within a shopping 


Endeavour Group Limited – proposed acquisition of the Prince Consort Hotel 
 
Page 11 of 15 
centre. Cellarbrations Fortitude Valley offers standard a range of wine, beer, 
cider, spirits, and pre-mixed beverages.  
• 
Cellarbrations Spring Hill, approximately 1.1 km on a straight-line basis (4 
minutes’ drive) from Prince Cellars and located within a shopping centre. 
Cellarbrations Spring Hills offers standard a range of wine, beer, cider, spirits, 
and pre-mixed beverages. 
 
• 
Liquorland Brisbane City (Coles-owned) approximately 1.4 km (6 minutes’ 
drive) from Prince Cellars and located next to Coles. Liquorland offers a 
standard range of wine, beer, cider, spirits, and pre-mixed beverages. 
• 
Malt Traders CBD approximately 1.4 km on a straight-line basis (7 minutes’ 
drive) from Prince Cellars offers premium spirits, wine, and craft beer, with a 
particular focus on whiskey and smaller independent products.  
• 
SBH Cellars Kangaroo Point, approximately 1.3 km on a straight-line basis (4 
minutes’ drive) from Prince Cellars and offers premium wines, craft beer, and 
ciders. 
• 
The Bottle-O Spring Hill, approximately 1.1 km (4 minutes’ drive) from Prince 
Cellars. Bottle-O offers a standard a range of wine, beer, cider, spirits, and pre-
mixed beverages. 
• 
The Wine Emporium, approximately 1.3 km on a straight-line basis (6 minutes’ 
drive) from Prince Cellars and located within a shopping centre near a 
Woolworths supermarket. The Wine Emporium is a specialty wine retailer, 
offering a wide range of Australian and international wines, and a selection of 
beer and cider.  
 
45. 
We understand for customers travelling by vehicle several of these competing 
liquor stores likely have better parking options than those within Central Fortitude 
Valley (for example, where they are located inside a shopping centre).  However, 
we consider a relatively small proportion of customers travel by vehicle in the 
local area, particularly to Prince Cellars, and for most customers these stores are 
unlikely to be a viable alternative to Prince Cellars.  
46. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the merged entity would face limited 
competitive constraint from alternative retail liquor stores in the local area post-
acquisition. As a result, customers in the local area, including commercial 
customers, may be disadvantaged by a reduction in choice of packaged liquor, 
may experience a lowering of service levels and site amenity, and may not 
benefit from price competition or differentiated promotional activity.  
Removal of Prince Cellars’ independent and differentiated offer 
 
47. 
The ACCC is also considering whether the proposed acquisition will result in the 
loss of an independent and differentiated offer provided by Prince Cellars, and 
the impact this would have on competition in the local area. As mentioned 
above, national liquor chains (including the Endeavour brands) standardise 
major elements of their retail offerings centrally across several stores. However, 
independents generally have greater flexibility and incentive to competitively 
respond to local offerings in order to win market share. The ACCC is concerned 
the localised competition and differentiation provided by Prince Cellars in 


Endeavour Group Limited – proposed acquisition of the Prince Consort Hotel 
 
Page 12 of 15 
seeking to win customers, including those from nearby BWS stores, will be lost 
with the acquisition.  
Product range 
 
48. 
Some market participants have indicated that Prince Cellars differentiates itself 
through a premium product offering and that this could be lost post-acquisition 
given no Fleet Street banner stores would remain in the local area.  
49. 
Market participants noted that Fleet Street stores (including Prince Cellars) 
generally stock mainstream products that can be found in most liquor stores but 
that they also have greater discretion over their product offering compared to 
larger chains like Endeavour and Coles-owned stores. The ACCC considers the 
loss of Prince Cellars’ ability to respond dynamically to local customer 
preferences and range products from alternative suppliers is likely to reduce 
choice in the local area.  
50. 
Further, there is some concern that BWS stores typically stock a large proportion 
of private branded products and the removal of independent competition at 
Prince Cellars may have a negative impact on consumer choice in the local area. 
The proposed acquisition would replace Prince Cellars’ independent and 
differentiated product offering with Endeavour’s standardised offer (which is 
already available at 9 liquor stores within a 1.5 km radius, and at the two closest 
alternative liquor stores to Prince Cellars), which may lead to a significant 
reduction in choice for consumers in the local area.  
Pricing and promotions  
 
51. 
As mentioned above, the ACCC understands that independent stores, like 
Prince Cellars, can respond dynamically to prices and promotions set by 
Endeavour. While some market feedback indicated that pricing at Prince Cellars 
may generally be higher than BWS stores, we consider Prince Cellars competes 
with local BWS stores through its alternative promotional cycles and discount 
offerings. The ACCC is concerned the proposed acquisition will reduce 
competition in the local area by removing an important and geographically close 
independent store which offers customers competing promotional cycles to the 
nearby Endeavour-owned stores. This includes the loss of competitive constraint 
exerted by nearby BWS stores on Prince Cellars that can more easily respond to 
competing prices and promotions at a local level. 
Service levels and site amenity 
52. 
The ACCC considers local retail packaged liquor stores also compete on other 
non-price factors, such as service levels and site amenities. Market feedback 
has indicated the Fleet Street banner, including Prince Cellars, tends to be 
characterised by a sleek store fit-out to reflect its more premium offering and 
provides strong customer service. We also understand that it holds the only 
extended hours permit in the local area whereby it can operate every day from 
10am to midnight, while alternative liquor stores typically do not operate past 
11pm.  
53. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition may impact competition 
regarding service levels (for example in relation to staffing levels and extended 
trading hours) and store quality (for example, less incentive over the long term to 


Endeavour Group Limited – proposed acquisition of the Prince Consort Hotel 
 
Page 13 of 15 
ensure refurbishments are timely and expansive). This includes Prince Cellars’ 
unique opening hours which may be lost if BWS does not continue to operate 
under extended trading hours in the future.  
Barriers to entry or expansion and likelihood of new entry 
54. 
The ACCC is considering whether new entry or expansion would be likely, timely 
and sufficient to prevent a substantial lessening of competition that might 
otherwise result from the proposed acquisition.  
55. 
Market feedback has suggested that barriers to new entry and expansion in the 
retail supply of packaged liquor for off-site consumption in the Fortitude Valley 
area are likely to be high and include: 
• 
the regulatory requirement for liquor stores to be associated with a 
Commercial Hotel Licence.  
• 
the time and costs associated with licensing requirements. 
• 
the high saturation of liquor licences in the local area (with the Fortitude 
Valley area having the highest concentration of Commercial Hotel 
Licenses in Queensland).  
• 
the difficulty for independents to enter and compete against the 
significant scale and established brand of large chains in the local area, 
including those operated by Endeavour and Coles (which operates 
Liquorland, First Choice, and Vintage Cellars retail liquor stores). 
56. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that barriers to enter the retail supply of 
packaged liquor for off-site consumption in the Fortitude Valley area are high and 
independent retailers may have limited ability and incentive to enter. The ACCC 
is considering the height of barriers to entry and expansion and whether 
Endeavour would be competitively constrained by the threat of new entry post-
acquisition.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary views in 
relation to the retail supply of packaged liquor for off-site consumption in the local area 
surrounding Prince Cellars.  In particular market participants may wish to comment on 
the following: 
• 
market concentration and the extent to which Endeavour’s share of the local 
market would increase as a result of the proposed acquisition.  
• 
the degree of the competitive constraint provided by other competitors in the local 
area on Prince Cellars, BWS Valley Central and BWS Fortitude Valley. 
• 
the extent to which Prince Cellars provides a differentiated retail offer from local 
BWS stores and other liquor stores in the local area.  
• 
the value of Prince Cellars’ differentiated retail offer to consumers, and the impact 
it has on competitors. 
• 
the height of barriers to entry and expansion in the local area and likelihood of new 
entry/expansion in the short to medium term.  


Endeavour Group Limited – proposed acquisition of the Prince Consort Hotel 
 
Page 14 of 15 
Issue unlikely to raise concerns: wholesale supply of 
liquor 
57. 
The ACCC is considering the effect of the proposed acquisition on competition in 
the wholesale market for liquor supplied to liquor stores and other hospitality 
venues.  
58. 
The wholesale supply of liquor has elements on a regional (such as Brisbane), 
state, and national level given the business model of distribution via warehouses 
across each state and territory or a relevant area. The ACCC has not reached a 
concluded view on the geographic scope of these markets but does not consider 
it impacts on the competition assessment. 
59. 
Market participants have raised general concerns the proposed acquisition 
would further entrench Endeavour’s already dominant wholesale position and 
reduce the efficiency and competitiveness of independent wholesalers. Some 
participants also raised concerns the proposed acquisition would limit the ability 
of liquor suppliers to reach customers, noting that volume and trading terms with 
independents are more flexible than Endeavour. 
60. 
However, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is 
unlikely to result in a substantial lessening of competition in the wholesale 
market for liquor supplied to liquor stores and other hospitality venues, 
regardless of whether this is a Brisbane market or a broader market. Our 
preliminary view is that Prince Cellars is unlikely to be of sufficient size to 
materially impact the wholesale costs of Endeavour or independent wholesalers.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the impact of the proposed 
acquisition on the wholesale supply of liquor to liquor stores and hospitality venues on 
a regional, state, or national level. 
Issue unlikely to raise concerns: reduction in chain-on-
chain competition between liquor stores 
61. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to result 
in a substantial lessening of competition in chain-on-chain competition between 
retail liquor brands on a regional, state, or national level.  
62. 
The ACCC considers that having strong alternative liquor store banners to those 
operated by Endeavour and Coles is important for consumers to benefit from 
differentiated price, range, and service offerings. The ACCC is considering 
whether the loss of Prince Cellars’ Fleet Street banner will reduce ILG’s 
geographic presence and brand awareness and impact the overall strength of 
ILG on a regional, state, or national level. 
63. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to 
substantially lessen chain-on-chain competition regardless of the geographic 
scope of the relevant market. Post-acquisition, ILG will continue to have 7 Fleet 
Street banner stores in Queensland outside Fortitude Valley, as well as the 
liquor stores which trade under its various other banners. The ACCC considers 
there would continue to be a significant number of ILG retailers in Queensland 
such that the proposed acquisition would not materially reduce the geographic 


Endeavour Group Limited – proposed acquisition of the Prince Consort Hotel 
 
Page 15 of 15 
presence, brand awareness, or group purchasing power on a regional or on a 
wider geographic basis.  
64. 
However, the ACCC considers that the removal of one store, especially if 
combined with other acquisitions over time within a pattern of serial acquisitions, 
could result in significant adverse impacts on chain-on-chain competition on a 
regional or broader geographic level. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the impact of the proposed 
acquisition on chain-on-chain competition on a regional, state, or national level.  
Issue unlikely to raise concerns: competition in other 
markets 
65. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to 
substantially lessen competition in the provision of liquor for onsite consumption, 
gaming, and entertainment/dining in the local area around the Prince Consort 
Hotel.  
66. 
Endeavour operates two hotels within a 1.5 km radius of Prince Cellars, the 
Brunswick Hotel (approximately 837 m from Prince Cellars) and Hello Gorgeous 
(approximately 833 m from Prince Cellars).  Post acquisition, there will remain at 
least 80 competing hotels/hospitality outlets within 1.5 km of the Prince Consort 
Hotel, including 4 hotels within 250 m of the Prince Consort Hotel. The ACCC 
considers these competitors would continue to constrain Endeavour post-
acquisition in the hotel market.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the impact of the proposed 
acquisition on the retail supply of products/services available at hotels and hospitality 
venues. 
ACCC's future steps 
67. 
As noted above, the ACCC invites submissions from market participants on each 
of the issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that 
may be relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. Submissions should 
be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au by no later than 5pm on 25 January 2024. 
68. 
The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
69. 
The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 21 March 2024. 
However the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment explaining the 
ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's public announcement. 
