 
 
Land of the Gadigal people of the Eora Nation
Level 27, 135 King Street
Sydney NSW 2000
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
Tel 02 9230 9133
www.accc.gov.au
 
Our ref: 
IM-72322 
Contact officer: Sophie Musker 
Contact phone: (03) 9658 6408 
13 October 2023 
 
Dear Interested Party 
Re: Request for submissions – Endeavour’s proposed acquisition of the Prince Consort Hotel and 
attached bottle shop, Prince Cellars, in Fortitude Valley, Qld 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on the 
proposed acquisition of the Prince Consort Hotel and the attached bottle shop, Prince Cellars, 
located at 220-230 Wickham Street and 234 Wickham Street, Fortitude Valley, Queensland (the 
proposed acquisition) by Endeavour Group Limited (Endeavour). 
Further details are provided at Attachment A. 
Information from you or your business is one of the ACCC’s most valuable tools in assessing 
mergers. Your expertise in the hospitality and liquor industry, or your experience as a consumer, will 
help the ACCC understand the impact of the proposed acquisition, including how you or your 
business may be affected. 
The ACCC’s investigation of the proposed acquisition is focused on the impact on competition. In 
particular, we are seeking your views on: 
• 
how closely Endeavour’s bottle shops compete with the Prince Cellars bottle shop at the Prince 
Consort Hotel; 
• 
the availability of other hotels and bottle shops in the area; and 
• 
whether Endeavour’s increased size would impact the acquisition of liquor products at the 
wholesale level. 
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B. The legal test which the ACCC 
applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 
2010 (Cth), which prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of 
substantially lessening competition in a market. 
How to share your views 
Please provide your written response by 27 October 2023 via email to mergers@accc.gov.au with the 
title: Submission re: Endeavour’s proposed acquisition of the Prince Consort Hotel – attention Sophie 
Musker. If you require more time to respond, please let us know. 
Alternatively, if you would like to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any questions, 
please call Sophie Musker on (03) 9658 6408 or Morgan Woodland on (02) 9230 9194. 
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anyone who may be interested. 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public Mergers Register 
at (ACCC mergers register). 
 


 
 
2 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC treats sensitive information it receives during a merger review as confidential and will not publish 
your submission. We will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) unless 
compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or during court proceedings) or in 
accordance with s155AAA of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to 
disclose confidential information, we will notify you in advance where possible so that you have an 
opportunity to be heard. Therefore, please clearly indicate if any information you provide is confidential. Our 
Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
 
Yours sincerely  
 
Daniel McCracken-Hewson 
General Manager  
Merger Investigations  
 
 


 
 
3 
Attachment A: Background 
 
Prince Consort Hotel and Prince Cellars 
The Prince Consort Hotel is located at 220-230 Wickham Street, Fortitude Valley in Queensland. The 
associated bottle shop, Prince Cellars, is located at 234 Wickham Street, Fortitude Valley.  
The Prince Consort Hotel offers on-premises food and beverage consumption, live music and 
entertainment, gaming and wagering, and function services. The associated Prince Cellars bottle 
shop sells takeaway packaged liquor and operates under the ‘Fleet Street’ banner. 
Fortitude Valley is a popular high-density urban nightlife district in central Brisbane, with a nightlife 
and entertainment precinct comprised of several bars, nightclubs, entertainment venues, restaurants 
and hotels.  
Endeavour 
Endeavour is a major Australian alcoholic drinks retailer and hotel operator that operates a portfolio 
of brands including BWS, Dan Murphy’s, Jimmy Brings and Langton’s. Endeavour also manages over 
330 licensed hotels across Australia through its subsidiary, ALH Hotels.  
Until 28 June 2021, Endeavour was a subsidiary of Woolworths Group (Woolworths). Endeavour 
separated from Woolworths via a demerger and is now a separately listed corporation on the ASX 
(ASX:EDV). 
Endeavour currently operates 2 hotels within 2km of the Prince Consort Hotel: 
• 
the Brunswick Hotel (approximately 837m from the Prince Consort Hotel on a straight-line basis); 
and  
• 
Hello Gorgeous (approximately 833m away from the Prince Consort Hotel on a straight-line 
basis). 
Endeavour currently operates 7 bottle shops within 2km of Prince Cellars: 
• 
BWS Valley Central; 
• 
BWS Fortitude Valley; 
• 
BWS Emporium; 
• 
BWS Brunswick; 
• 
Dan Murphy's Newstead; 
• 
BWS Teneriffe; and  
• 
BWS Merthyr Road. 
 
 


 
 
4 
Attachment B: Questions 
 
1. Please provide a brief description of you, your business or organisation and explain your interest 
in the proposed acquisition, including any commercial relationship(s) with Endeavour and/or the 
Prince Consort Hotel. 
Questions for consumers and bottle shops 
2. Identify any factors that you consider are important to, or valued by, bottle shop customers in 
Fortitude Valley. For example, the brand of the bottle shop, its range of products, product prices, 
service quality, whether the bottle shop is located near other retail stores, opening hours etc.  
3. Which bottle shops in Fortitude Valley do you consider compete most closely with Prince Cellars 
(having regard to factors such as product range, price, quality (including service and site amenity) 
opening hours, location and promotional activity)? Please identify and describe these bottle 
shops, and why they compete closely with the Prince Cellars.  
4. How closely do you consider Prince Cellars competes with (i) BWS Fortitude Valley and (ii) BWS 
Valley Central (having regard to factors such as product range, price, quality (including service 
and site amenity) opening hours, location and promotional activity)? 
5. Outline the geographic area over which you generally source takeaway liquor in Fortitude Valley, 
including the likely form of transport, such as walking, driving or public transport. 
Questions for bottle shops 
6. Describe the ease or difficulty of establishing new bottle shops in the local area. In your answer, 
please have regard to any relevant factors, including cost, time, obtaining relevant regulatory 
approvals (e.g. liquor licences) and availability of appropriate sites. 
7. Describe the impact (if any) of removing Prince Cellars on the strength of the Fleet Street brand. 
In your response, please consider the importance of having multiple locations in a region (such 
as the impact on brand awareness or economies of scale in relation to advertising).  
8. Describe the geographic area over which customers in the local area generally source takeaway 
liquor and their ability to switch to alternative bottle shops in response to a reduction in product 
range or opening hours, or an increase in prices at Prince Cellars. 
9. Describe the different types of “customer missions” for typical customers of bottle shops in 
Fortitude Valley (i.e. how many customers are “buying for now” e.g. to consume at a nearby 
venue, and how many customers are “buying for later” e.g. to consume at home).   
Questions for consumers and hotels  
10. Identify and discuss the hotels and/or other venues that compete with the Prince Consort Hotel 
in relation to hospitality services in the local area. In your response, please consider price, quality, 
location, and range of offering (including food and liquor offerings and live entertainment and 
gaming - including poker machines, lotteries, and network games).  
Questions for wholesalers  
11. Identify the impact (if any) of the proposed acquisition on the wholesale supply of liquor, either at 
the state or national level. For example, whether the removal of the Prince Cellars as an 
independent wholesale customer would impact the scale, competitiveness and/or efficiency of a 
wholesale supplier’s offerings to other independent retailers. 
Additional information  
12. Describe the impact (if any) that replacing Prince Cellars with a BWS may have for customers or 
suppliers in Fortitude Valley.  
13. Outline any other concerns you have about the likely competition effects of the proposed 
acquisition or comments you consider relevant to the ACCC’s assessment, including your 
reasons.  
