 
Our ref: 
IM-72913  
 
 
 
13 May 2025 
 
Dear Interested Party 
Re: ACCC seeking your views: Cleanaway's proposed acquisition of Contract Resources 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
Cleanaway Waste Management Ltd (Cleanaway)’s proposed acquisition of Contract 
Resources Group Pty Ltd (Contract Resources) (the Proposed Acquisition). 
 
Cleanaway is an Australian-based recycling, waste management, and industrial services 
company. Contract Resources is a specialist provider of industrial services for complex and 
high value assets in the energy and oil and gas sector.   
 
Industrial services involve the provision of maintenance and cleaning services to industrial 
facilities, plants, and equipment with many customers for these services operating in the 
mining, infrastructure, and oil and gas sectors.  
Further details are provided at Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact that the Proposed Acquisition would 
have on competition. 
In particular, we are seeking your views on: 
• 
the extent to which Cleanaway and Contract Resources compete with one another in 
industrial services, 
• 
alternative supply options that exist for customers of Cleanaway and Contract 
Resources, 
• 
circumstances in which industrial services and waste management services are 
purchased together or separately, and 
• 
whether the integration of Contract Resources’ industrial service capabilities with 
Cleanaway’s waste management interests would make it difficult for alternative 
suppliers to compete. 
Further issues you may wish to address are set out at Attachment B. 
This matter is public, and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested.  


The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the Proposed Acquisition is in section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market.  
Please provide your response by 5pm on 27 May 2025 via email to mergers@accc.gov.au 
with the title: Submission re: Cleanaway – Contract Resources. If you require more time to 
respond, please let us know.  
If you would like to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any questions about this 
letter, please contact mergers@accc.gov.au.  
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public Mergers 
Register at (ACCC mergers register).  
 
Yours sincerely  
 
Morag Bond 
General Manager 
Merger Investigations 
 
 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the Proposed Acquisition. We will not 
disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) unless 
compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or during court 
proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the CCA. Where the ACCC is required to 
disclose confidential information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where possible so 
that you may have an opportunity to be heard. Therefore, if the information provided to 
the ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 


Attachment A – Overview of the merger parties and the Proposed Acquisition 
 
 
The Proposed Acquisition 
Cleanaway proposes to acquire 100 per cent of the shares in Contract Resources. 
 
The acquirer - Cleanaway 
 
Cleanaway is an ASX-listed company that provides recycling, waste management and 
industrial services in Australia.  
 
Cleanaway’s industrial services business is focused on customers in the mining and 
resources, construction, heavy industry, manufacturing and civil infrastructure sectors. 
Cleanaway’s industrial services offering includes: 
 
• 
high pressure water services, 
• 
vacuum loading,  
• 
non-destructive digging, 
• 
cold cutting, 
• 
tank cleaning and maintenance, 
• 
emergency response  
• 
decontamination and chemical cleaning, 
• 
site remediation, and  
• 
CCTV surveying.  
 
Cleanaway is also a major supplier of waste management services in Australia.  
 
The target - Contract Resources 
 
Contract Resources is a specialist provider of industrial services focused on supplying 
services such as catalyst handling and specialised mechanical services, including shutdown 
and maintenance services as well as commissioning and decommissioning services to 
customers in the oil and gas sector.  
 
Contract Resources also provides baseline industrial services such as: 
• 
high pressure water services, 
• 
vacuum loading,  
• 
non-destructive digging, 
• 
cold cutting, 
• 
tank cleaning and maintenance, 
• 
emergency response, and 
• 
decontamination and chemical cleaning. 
 
Contract Resources has a specialist processing facility in Gap Ridge, WA, which is used for 
processing hazardous materials including mercury-impacted waste. 
 
Contract Resources is currently owned by two private equity firms, SCF and Viburnum.  
 
 
 


Industry Background 
  
Industrial services 
  
Industrial services predominantly comprise the provision of maintenance and cleaning 
services to industrial facilities, plants, and equipment including those used in the operation 
of the mining, infrastructure, and oil and gas sectors.  
  
 
Waste management services 
  
Waste management services encompass the collection, treatment and disposal of various 
types of hazardous and non-hazardous waste, including waste created by or collected during 
the provision of industrial services.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Attachment B 
 
1. 
Provide a brief description of your business or organisation. 
2. 
Outline the reasons for your interest in the Proposed Acquisition, including any 
commercial relationship/s with Cleanaway and/or Contract Resources.  
 
The questions below are divided into questions for customers and competitors, but you are 
welcome to comment on any question/s in any category. 
Industrial services 
Questions for customers 
 
3. 
Identify and describe any industrial services you require for your project/operations and 
how you acquire industrial services (for example, through formal tender or other 
methods). 
4. 
If you also obtain waste management services, please indicate: 
a. whether you generally purchase industrial services and waste management 
services together from the same supplier, and/or  
b. whether there would be benefits to you in acquiring these services from the 
same supplier. 
5. 
Describe how closely Contract Resources and Cleanaway compete in the supply of 
industrial services in Australia, taking into account factors such as: 
a. price 
b. service quality or technical expertise  
c. customer type  
d. geographic location, and  
e. reputation. 
  
6. 
Identify your current suppliers of these services, including the length of time you have 
used each supplier. 
7. 
Identify any alternative suppliers you could acquire your required service/s from. 
8. 
Please explain whether the industrial services you require create waste, and what 
arrangements you or the provider of the services have in place to manage and dispose 
of this waste. 
Questions for competitors 
 
9. 
Identify the industrial services you supply in Australia. For each service you supply, 
identify: 
a. the geographic locations where you supply,  
b. your target customers 
c. your competitors for the service, and 


d. if the Proposed Acquisition will impact your ability to compete to provide 
these services. 
 
10. Discuss the likelihood of, and timeframe for, new entry or expansion in the supply of 
industrial services. Identify any recent examples of new entry or expansion. 
Waste management services 
Questions for customers of Contract Resources’ Gap Ridge Facility 
 
11. Provide details of any hazardous waste management services you require for your 
project/operations (including a description of the type of waste handled) and how you 
acquire hazardous waste management services (for example, through formal tender or 
other methods). 
12. Identify your current suppliers of hazardous waste management services, including the 
length of time you have used each supplier. 
13. Identify any alternative suppliers of hazardous waste management services that you 
could engage. 
14. Describe whether Contract Resources and Cleanaway compete in the supply of 
hazardous waste management and if so how closely they compete. 
Questions for competitors of Cleanaway in waste management services 
 
15. Identify any industrial services you acquire from Contract Resources, and any alternative 
suppliers of these services. 
16. Discuss any anticipated changes to the ability of other waste management service 
providers to compete with Cleanaway should the proposed acquisition proceed. 
 
Additional information  
 
17. Please provide any additional information or comments that you consider relevant to the 
ACCC’s consideration of the Proposed Acquisition. 
 
