Public Competition Assessment
16 October 2006
Victorian Livestock Exchange Limited - acquisition of Sale and
Korumburra Saleyard businesses and Yarram saleyard property in
the Gippsland region
Introduction
1.
On 23 August 2006, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission
(ACCC) announced its decision that the acquisition of the Korumburra South
Gippsland Regional Saleyard and the Sale Livestock Exchange businesses and
Yarram Saleyard property (the VLE acquisitions) by Victorian Livestock
Exchange Limited (VLE), would not have the effect, or be likely to have the
effect, of substantially lessening competition in the market for the provision of
saleyard and saleyard services in the Gippsland region of Victoria in
contravention of section 50 of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (the Act).
2.
The ACCC made its decision on the basis of the information provided by the
merger parties and information arising from its market inquiries. This Public
Competition Assessment outlines the basis on which the ACCC has reached its
decision on the VLE’s acquisitions, subject to confidentiality considerations.
Public Competition Assessment
3.
To provide an enhanced level of transparency and procedural fairness in its
decision making process, the ACCC issues a Public Competition Assessment for
all transaction proposals where:
a merger is rejected;
a merger is subject to enforceable undertakings;
the merger parties seek such disclosure; or
a merger is approved but raises important issues that the ACCC considers
should be made public.
4.
This Public Competition Assessment has been issued because Victorian
Livestock Exchange Limited’s acquisition of the Korumburra South Gippsland
Regional Saleyard and Sale Livestock Exchange businesses and Yarram Saleyard
property is considered to raise issues of interest to the public.


Victorian Livestock Exchange Limited - acquisition of Sale and Korumburra Saleyard
businesses and Yarram saleyard property in the Gippsland region
-2-
5.
By issuing Public Competition Assessments, the ACCC aims to provide the
market with a better understanding of the ACCC's analysis of various markets
and the associated merger and competition issues. It also alerts the market to the
circumstances where the ACCC’s assessment of the competition conditions in
particular markets is changing, or likely to change, because of developments.
6.
Each Public Competition Assessment is specific to the particular transaction
under review by the ACCC. While some transaction proposals may involve the
same or related markets, it should not be assumed that the analysis and decision
outlined in one Public Competition Assessment will be conclusive of the ACCC’s
view in respect of other transaction proposals, as each matter will be considered
on its own merits.
7.
Many of the ACCC’s decisions will involve consideration of both non-
confidential and confidential information provided by the merger parties and
market participants. In order to maintain the confidentiality of particular
information, Public Competition Assessments do not contain any confidential
information or its sources. While the ACCC aims to provide an appropriately
detailed explanation of the basis for the ACCC decision, where this is not
possible, maintaining confidentiality will be the ACCC's paramount concern, and
accordingly a Public Competition Assessment may not definitively explain all
issues and the ACCC’s analysis of such issues.
The parties
The acquirer: Victorian Livestock Exchange Limited
8.
VLE is listed on the Bendigo Stock Exchange (BSX). In its December 2005
financial report, VLE declared total assets of nearly $18 million and net assets of
$8.23 million.1 Its interests include:
Pakenham saleyard (business and assets)
Traralgon saleyard (business and assets)
Koonwarra saleyard t/a VLE Leongatha (business and assets)
Sale saleyard (business only)
Korumburra saleyard (business only)
Yarram saleyard (assets only)
9.
VLE provides livestock electronic tag reading services to other saleyards and
major pastoral houses in Mortlake, the Alpine region of Victoria and New South
Wales and in Powrana and Bothwell in Tasmania. VLE provides other livestock
services throughout Gippsland and neighbouring regions.
1 See BSX document - VLE Annexure 3A – 31 December 2005 (posted 17/03/06), available at:
http://www.bsx.com.au/dataRepository/BSX.VLE.1.1597.1718.pdf.


Victorian Livestock Exchange Limited - acquisition of Sale and Korumburra Saleyard
businesses and Yarram saleyard property in the Gippsland region
-3-
10.
VLE’s Koonwarra site has recently undergone an extensive refurbishment to the
value of approximately $5 million, which included doubling the number of pens
available and roofing the entire cattle holding.
The target/s: Korumburra South Gippsland Regional Saleyard and Sale Livestock
Exchange businesses and Yarram Saleyard property
Korumburra South Gippsland Regional Saleyard and Sale Livestock Exchange
businesses
11. VLE entered into negotiations in January 2006 with the Svenson owned group of
companies to purchase their livestock saleyard operations in Gippsland, namely the
businesses of the Korumburra and Sale saleyards. According to their December
2005 financial report, VLE signed contracts for the rights to operate the saleyards at
Sale and Korumburra for $1.3 million.2
12. On 10 March 2006, VLE completed the transaction to purchase the Korumburra
based business of the Svenson Group.3 Information before the ACCC indicated that
the business of the Korumburra saleyard would be transferred to VLE’s Koonwarra
saleyard facility, and the Korumburra saleyard closed by the Svenson Group at
some stage thereafter.
13. On 3 July 2006, VLE took possession, as tenants, of the Sale Livestock Exchange
which is the property of Wellington Shire Council.4
Yarram Saleyard property
14.
According to the BSX, VLE acquired the Yarram Saleyard property of David
Phelan and Co Pty Ltd on 13 June 2006.5 VLE submits that this transaction did
not include the purchase the Phelan saleyard business or the Landmark-owned
saleyards and saleyard business adjacent to David Phelan and Co. Pty Ltd.
Timing
15.
The following table outlines the timeline of key events in this matter.
Date
Event
21-Feb-2006
09-Mar-2006
ACCC received initial submission from VLE
ACCC timeline suspended pending receipt of further information from VLE
2 See N1.
3 See BSX announcement of 10 March 2006 available at:
http://www.bsx.com.au/dataRepository/BSX.VLE.1.1531.1652.pdf.
4 See BSX announcement of 3 July 2006, available at:
http://www.bsx.com.au/dataRepository/BSX.VLE.1.1829.1950.pdf.
5 See BSX announcement of 13 June 2006 available at:
http://www.bsx.com.au/dataRepository/BSX.VLE.1.1799.1920.pdf.


Victorian Livestock Exchange Limited - acquisition of Sale and Korumburra Saleyard
businesses and Yarram saleyard property in the Gippsland region
-4-
28-Mar-2006
11-Apr-2006
13-Jun-2006
15-Jun-2006
30-Jun-2006
04-Jul-2006
28-Jul-2006
01-Aug-2006
23-Aug-2006
to constitute a full submission
Market inquiries commenced
Closing date for submissions from interested parties
Full submission received from VLE. ACCC commenced review under
Merger Review Process Guidelines.
ACCC released a Statement of Issues
Closing date for submissions from interested parties on the Statement of
Issues
ACCC timeline suspended pending receipt of a response to the ACCC's
Statement of Issues from VLE expected on 31 July 2006.
Decision date postponed to allow for VLE's response to ACCC's Statement
of Issues
ACCC received response to the Statement of Issues from VLE
ACCC announced it would not oppose the acquisition
Market inquiries
16.
The ACCC conducted market inquiries with a range of industry participants,
including agents, saleyard owner/operators, livestock buyers (farmers, feedlots,
meat processors and abattoirs) and livestock sellers (farmers, feedlots, pastoral
companies, stud owners), providers of ancillary services, local shire councils,
industry bodies and other interested parties. A market inquiries letter was also
posted on the ACCC website seeking comments. Submissions were sought in
relation to the transactions and substantive competition issues.
17.
The ACCC noted that some industry participants expressed concern about the
initial sale process of the Korumburra South Gippsland Regional Saleyard
business and assets to the Svenson group of companies by the South Gippsland
Shire Council. However, this issue did not fall under the ACCC’s scope for
assessment under section 50 of the Act.
Statement of Issues
18.
The ACCC published its Statement of Issues on 15 June 2006 identifying a
number of competition issues. In the Statement of Issues, the ACCC invited
further information and comment on the provision of saleyards and saleyard
services in the Gippsland region and across Victoria in relation to the following
issues:
the relevant market;
barriers to entry;
countervailing power; and
prices and profit margins.
19.
The Statement of Issues sought more detail on the nature of the markets and
methods used for the sale of livestock, the height of barriers to entry, the
existence and possible use of countervailing power by saleyard users and the
likely response of users to any adverse change in the prices or levels of service
offered by the VLE saleyards in Gippsland post-acquisition.


Victorian Livestock Exchange Limited - acquisition of Sale and Korumburra Saleyard
businesses and Yarram saleyard property in the Gippsland region
-5-
Market definition
20.
Based on information before the ACCC, the relevant product market was
considered to be the provision of saleyard and saleyard services, with auction
services and alternative methods of sale a substitute for some buyers and sellers
(agents).
21.
The ACCC’s inquiries revealed that the geographic scope of the market appeared
to be different for different parties – that is, local for livestock sellers and smaller
agents, and regional or trans-regional for livestock buyers and larger agents (and
possibly other users). For saleyard operators, the market appeared to be regional.
22.
The ACCC concluded the relevant market for the assessment of the VLE
acquisitions was the market for the provision of saleyard and saleyard services in
the Gippsland region of Victoria.
Competition analysis
Market concentration and substitutability
23.
The ACCC understands that, post-acquisition, VLE will own and operate three
Gippsland saleyards (Pakenham, Traralgon, Koonwarra), own one saleyard
property (Yarram) and two saleyard businesses (Korumburra and Sale).
24.
The ACCC’s inquiries confirmed the existence of saleyards located at Mernda,
Thorpdale, Heyfield, Benambra, Gelantipy, Omeo, and Ensay in the Gippsland
region.
25.
The ACCC is also aware of the existence of two larger saleyards located at
Warragul and Bairnsdale which offer saleyard and saleyard services in
competition with the VLE. Information before the ACCC indicated that these
saleyards were likely to impose a degree of constraint on VLE as substitute
saleyard facilities for some livestock producers, given, among other things, the
ease of switching between different saleyard facilities.
26.
The ACCC’s inquires, however, suggested that the substitutability of the
Warragul and Bairnsdale saleyards was limited, given that the Warragul facility is
not able to be physically expanded and buyers and sellers would have to travel
over the Strezelecki Ranges, and that the newly refurbished Bairnsdale facility
was perceived to be located too far away.
27.
The ACCC’s inquiries clarified that alternative saleyard facilities in the
Gippsland region are unlikely to be strong substitutes for small livestock
producers located in the Korumburra region post-acquisition, given the small
quantities bought and sold. The ACCC noted that many of these producers have
been buying and selling livestock in the region for a number of years and would
be unlikely to switch to an alternative saleyard facility to sell one to two animals
at a time up to 100km away. Furthermore, it was suggested that alternative
methods of sale may not be a viable alternative for small livestock producers,
given their inability to attract feedlots, abattoirs and meatworks directly.


Victorian Livestock Exchange Limited - acquisition of Sale and Korumburra Saleyard
businesses and Yarram saleyard property in the Gippsland region
-6-
28.
Information before the ACCC also indicated, however, that larger sellers who are
able to attract buyers directly may have the option of utilising the alternative
methods of buying and selling livestock (including feedlots), with some already
preparing to do so once Korumburra is closed. The ACCC’s inquiries verified
that there are companies planning on offering over-the-scales selling methods in
the Gippsland region; and many livestock farmers are investing in their own
livestock weighing scales, purchased locally, to have on the farm in preparation
for the closure of Korumburra and likely lack of capacity at the Koonwarra
saleyard.
29.
The ACCC has reached the view that the ability for some larger livestock
producers to switch, at the margin, to alternative livestock selling methods and to
a lesser extent, use alternative saleyard facilities located in the Victorian
Gippsland region, such as Warragul and Bairnsdale despite perceived
shortcomings, would provide some degree of competitive constraint on the VLE.
Barriers to entry
Saleyard and saleyard services
30.
Information before the ACCC suggested that barriers to entry for the
establishment of a new saleyard facility were significant and included:
construction costs;
achieving sufficient throughput and economies of scale; and
regulatory and related barriers.
31.
The largest barrier to entering the saleyard and related services market is the cost
of construction which information before the ACCC indicated is between $3 – 8
million. The ACCC’s inquiries generally supported that considerable capital
costs would be involved to establish a new saleyard facility in the Gippsland
region.
32.
The ACCC’s inquiries also indicated that it is unlikely a new entrant would
establish a saleyard facility in the short-term in competition with VLE given
unpredictable and irregular throughput. As it is easy for buyers, sellers and to a
lesser extent, agents to switch easily from using one saleyard facility to another,
there is no guarantee of buyer support for saleyard owners and operators. New
saleyard facilities would have to build up their trade and offer incentives to
initially attract business. Furthermore, saleyard users would be less inclined to
demand additional saleyard facilities because of the convenience of attending
saleyard auctions for certain types of livestock, held on specific days, at different
saleyards. Generally, sellers will want to trade livestock at a saleyard facility
where there are many buyers, and vice versa, to get the best prices. In addition,
there appeared to be considerable economies of scale in larger facilities.
33.
Available information indicated that other regulatory and related barriers to entry
included Occupational Health and Safety regulations, environmental and
planning regulations and availability of a suitable site with road access.


Victorian Livestock Exchange Limited - acquisition of Sale and Korumburra Saleyard
businesses and Yarram saleyard property in the Gippsland region
-7-
34.
Information before the ACCC indicated that barriers to expanding existing
saleyard facilities were also significant. Barriers identified included
refurbishment and upgrade costs, difficulties in yard design and operation,
availability of suitable land adjacent to existing facilities, tighter environmental
obligations when modifications are completed and achieving sufficient demand
from users for expanded saleyard facilities.
35.
The ACCC is aware of the existence of portable yards to expand the capacity of
saleyard facilities temporarily during times of excess demand from saleyard
users. However, the ACCC’s inquiries indicated that the use of portable yards at
Koonwarra to lessen perceived short-term capacity issues would not be a
practical or viable solution. Furthermore, portable yards at Koonwarra would not
be considered a feasible alternative to replace holding auctions at the larger
Korumburra saleyard.
36.
The ACCC concluded that barriers to entry and expansion for saleyard and
saleyard services are significant and the entry of a new saleyard operator in the
Gippsland region is unlikely in the short-term.
Alternative methods of selling
37.
The ACCC’s inquiries indicated that there are minimal costs associated with
establishing an alternative method of selling business. This is supported by the
existence of alternative forms of selling in every local area in the Gippsland
region of varying size. Expanding an alternative method of selling business
appeared to be more about establishing relationships, marketing the business and
hiring appropriate staff.
38.
The ACCC concluded that barriers to entry and expansion for alternative methods
of sale such as over-the-scales appeared to be low.
Choice of selling method
39. The ACCC’s inquiries revealed that regular users of saleyard services possess a
degree of choice with respect to the selling method they use, supported by the ease
with which buyers, sellers and agents are able to use alternative saleyards, or switch
to alternative methods of selling. Furthermore, saleyard charges are transparent and
easily accessible; if users are unhappy with the services offered, they can source
alternative methods of livestock disposal.
40. Information before the ACCC indicated that agents are likely to have the most
choice as they are well informed about the market and are able to influence both
their clients’ choice of selling method and to a lesser extent, saleyard location.
41. Similarly, ACCC inquiries revealed that sellers also possess some choice with
respect to different selling methods. If sellers feel that the saleyard charges are
becoming too high or the services offered are not to the level expected, they will
find alternatives. In most cases, this is likely to involve sending stock to another
saleyard but could include selling larger lines of cattle direct to abattoirs or by using
other alternative methods of selling.


Victorian Livestock Exchange Limited - acquisition of Sale and Korumburra Saleyard
businesses and Yarram saleyard property in the Gippsland region
-8-
42. Furthermore, available information suggested that buyers who travel regularly
across regional and state boundaries to more than one saleyard, and also buy direct,
are likely to have access to alternatives. Buyers typically represent large companies
such as supermarket chains, feedlots and abattoirs. The failure of buyers to attend
particular saleyard or their decision to buy direct will impact significantly on the
pricing and service provision decisions of the VLE as a saleyard operator.
Furthermore, saleyards sell to the same section of the trade on different weekdays
so that buyers may attend one yard on Monday, another on Tuesday and so on.
This appeared to support the notion that choice is also available to livestock buyers.
Buyers are not generally charged fees directly and will operate where there are
sufficient numbers of livestock suitable to their requirements.
43. The ACCC is confident that agents, and some larger buyers and sellers have a
degree of choice when deciding whether to deal with VLE, and that this would be
likely to constrain some of the activities of the VLE post-acquisition.
Prices and profit margins
44. The ACCC’s inquiries revealed concerns about a probable increase in expenses for
users (yard fees and transport costs) to attend the recently refurbished Koonwarra
saleyard facility. The majority of information received also focused on the
resulting lack of capacity at the Koonwarra Saleyard once the Korumburra saleyard
is closed, and the bullock sales in particular are transferred (with agents not willing
to attend sales over a two to three day period).
Saleyard fees
45. Information before the ACCC indicated that prices charged by saleyards are
determined by competitive forces, in other words, what fees can be charged without
adversely affecting throughput. The ACCC’s inquiries revealed that fees charged
by saleyards may vary depending on the number and quality of different services
included in the price. Average lost size, frequency of sales and total throughput
also contribute to a range of selling costs across Australian saleyards.
46. Available information indicated that while the VLE’s prices are higher than those
charged by municipal saleyards, they have not exceeded CPI increases.
Furthermore, the ACCC’s inquiries overwhelmingly suggested that such prices
reflect the superior quality of the facilities and services provided by the VLE.
Compliance with regulatory and industry standards appeared to have also
legitimately increased the cost of providing modern saleyard services and facilities.
More generally, the ACCC noted that businesses are generally free to set their own
terms and conditions including prices.


Victorian Livestock Exchange Limited - acquisition of Sale and Korumburra Saleyard
businesses and Yarram saleyard property in the Gippsland region
-9-
47. Furthermore, the ACCC’s inquiries confirmed that prices for saleyards and saleyard
services are accessible and transparent. The ease with which agents, sellers and
buyers are able to obtain pricing information assists in users making an informed
decision about whether to attend the VLE’s saleyards, alternative saleyards or
switch to alternative methods of selling. These decisions will also be influenced by
transport costs and changes in prices received for livestock. However, the ACCC
recognised that other available information suggested that prices charged by
saleyards for some services often lack transparency and may be difficult for an
outsider to assess.
48. Information before the ACCC suggested that the VLE would be under pressure not
to increase its fees above the competitive level from users who are able choose
alternatives. The ACCC understands that sellers (agents) will attempt to maximise
their returns from trading livestock, with some willing to attend alternative
saleyards or switch to alternative methods of selling if there is a perceived
advantage. Ultimately, sellers and agents’ decisions are made on the basis of the
net return to the seller, which is made up of the price received for livestock less
expenses. Available information supported the fact that the cheapest method of sale
(the VLE’s saleyard facilities or alternative saleyards, or alternative methods of
selling) may not always achieve the best net result for sellers (agents).
Transport costs
49. Information before the ACCC indicated that saleyard users in the Korumburra area
would need to travel an additional 25km to attend the Koonwarra saleyard.
50. The ACCC considered that the cost of transport and distance to an alternative
saleyard facility would determine how much higher fees and transport costs would
need to be before the decision is made by sellers (agents) to trade livestock
elsewhere or switch to an alternative method of selling. Information before the
ACCC indicated that where reasonable numbers of livestock can be put together
(either individually or by joining with others), the cost of transporting livestock can
be significantly lowered. The ACCC understands that this may effectively limit the
ability of a saleyard operator such as the VLE to unilaterally raise prices above the
alternatives of shifting livestock to another yard or switching to alternative method
of selling.
Capacity issues
51. Information before the ACCC indicated that pre-acquisition, Koonwarra was a
single agent yard with low and declining throughput levels and in practical terms,
the closure of the Korumburra saleyard will simply be a transfer of business from
Korumburra to Koonwarra. However, concerns were raised during the ACCC’s
inquiries about the significant lack of capacity at VLE’s recently refurbished
Koonwarra saleyard facility.


Victorian Livestock Exchange Limited - acquisition of Sale and Korumburra Saleyard
businesses and Yarram saleyard property in the Gippsland region
-10-
52. Available information suggested that the only way the VLE would be able to
maintain the same level of throughput as the Korumburra saleyard would be to hold
a number of sales at Koonwarra over more than one day. However, the ACCC’s
inquiries indicated that this option would be inefficient for all saleyard users as they
would be likely to incur additional expenses of attending the same section of the
trade sale at different saleyard locations, possibly on the same day.
53. The ACCC noted the existence of portable or temporary yards that may be used to
alleviate a lack of capacity at VLE’s Koonwarra saleyard facility in the short-term.
For a discussion of this issue in more detail, please refer to paragraph 35 above.
54. Information before the ACCC also suggested that the VLE’s recently refurbished
Koonwarra facility, which is now able to process livestock more quickly and
efficiently, would be able to handle more livestock than another saleyard facility of
the same size (on the basis of selling pens).
55. Furthermore, the ACCC is aware that larger sellers are already preparing to use
alternative methods of selling as a substitute for attending the VLE’s Koonwarra
saleyard facility to trade livestock, particularly in preparation for the bullock sales
in February 2007. The ACCC understands that this will be likely to alleviate some
of the excess capacity issues at Koonwarra and demonstrates that some users do
have viable alternatives to the VLE-owned saleyards in the Gippsland region. In
other words, if there is a shortage of capacity at a saleyard and fees increase, there
are other viable options for some livestock sellers (agents). This is likely to be
indicative of the existence of competition in the market.
56. The ACCC noted that the likelihood of users switching to alternative saleyards in
the Gippsland region in response to a lack of capacity at the VLE’s Koonwarra
saleyard facility will be dependent on, among other things, individual sellers’
expenses and buyers’ perceptions.
Prices and profit margins – conclusion
57. The ACCC concluded that the VLE will have to remain competitive in terms of
prices and profit margins or risk losing valuable throughput. If the VLE either
sought to charge prices above the competitive level or deliver sub-standard
services, some sellers (agents) would be able to switch to using alternative saleyard
facilities or selling methods. Such saleyard users would not be likely to tolerate the
VLE increasing its prices above the competitive level.
58. Furthermore, the ACCC considered that VLE does not have an incentive to restrict
the supply of its services (maintain insufficient capacity at VLE’s Koonwarra
saleyard) in order to push up the price of livestock at auction given that VLE is not
involved in the livestock buying and selling market and would not benefit directly
from changes to the competitive price of livestock.
Conclusion
59.
On the basis of the above, the ACCC decided that the acquisition of the
Korumburra South Gippsland Regional Saleyard and Sale Livestock Exchange


Victorian Livestock Exchange Limited - acquisition of Sale and Korumburra Saleyard
businesses and Yarram saleyard property in the Gippsland region
-11-
businesses and Yarram Saleyard property by Victorian Livestock Exchange
Limited would not be likely to result in a substantial lessening of competition in
the market for the provision of saleyards and saleyard services in the Gippsland
region of Victoria in contravention of section 50 of the Act.
