Page 1 of 18 
 
Statement of Issues 
21 April 2016 
 DYWIDAG-Systems International Group – proposed 
acquisition of Jennmar Australia  
Purpose 
1. 
This Statement of issues aims to: 
 
give the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission’s (ACCC’s) 
preliminary views on competition issues arising from DYWIDAG-Systems 
International Group’s (DSI) proposed acquisition of Jennmar Australia 
(Jennmar) 
 
identify areas of further inquiry 
 
give all interested parties an opportunity to comment 
 
invite interested parties to submit information to assist us in our 
assessment of the issues. 
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views 
2. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is 
in section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits 
acquisitions that are likely to have the effect of substantially lessening 
competition in a market. 
3. 
The ACCC has divided its preliminary views on the proposed acquisition into 
three categories, ‘issues of concern’, ‘issues which may raise concerns’ and 
‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’. 
Issues of concern 
4. 
The proposed acquisition will result in the merger of the two largest Australian 
suppliers of rock bolts to soft rock mines (primarily coal mines) (soft rock bolts). 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in a national market for the supply of soft rock 
bolts. 
Issues which may raise concerns 
5. 
The ACCC is considering whether, if the proposed acquisition increases DSI’s 
market power in the supply of soft rock bolts, DSI would also have an increased 


DSI – proposed acquisition of Jennmar 
 
Page 2 of 18 
ability and incentive to engage in foreclosure strategies in relation to 
complementary products – resin, mesh and/or cementitious grout. The ACCC’s 
preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition may substantially lessen 
competition in markets for these complementary products by increasing DSI’s 
ability and incentive to foreclose rivals’ access to customers in those markets.  
Issues unlikely to raise concerns 
6. 
The ACCC considers that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to substantially 
lessen competition in the supply of other rock bolts, including rock bolts to hard 
rock mines (gold, copper and zinc, and gems such as diamonds) (hard rock 
bolts) and the supply of cable bolts. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that there 
are likely to be sufficient alternative suppliers to constrain DSI following the 
proposed acquisition. 
Making a submission 
7. 
The ACCC is seeking submissions from interested parties, particularly on the 
following key issues: 
 
The closeness of competition between DSI and Jennmar in the supply of 
soft rock bolts.  
 
The likelihood that an alternative supplier would be able to commence 
supply of soft rock bolts in a sufficiently timely manner and on sufficient 
scale to constrain DSI following the acquisition, taking into account any 
barriers to commencing such supply. 
 
The extent of any competitive constraint from imports, including whether 
there are any obstacles to supplying imported soft rock bolts to Australian 
coal mines.   
 
The likelihood that the proposed acquisition will increase DSI’s ability and 
incentives to foreclose rivals from competing for customers in markets for 
related products. 
8. 
Detailed discussion of these and other issues, along with specific questions, is 
contained in this Statement of Issues.  
9. 
Interested parties should provide submissions by no later than 12 May 2016. 
Responses may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: “Submission 
re: DSI-Jennmar - attention Adelle Low and Nikita Harrison”. If you would like to 
discuss the matter with ACCC officers over the telephone or in person, or have 
any questions about this Statement of Issues, please contact Adelle Low on 
(02) 6243 1204 or Nikita Harrison on (03) 9658 6497.  
10. 
The ACCC anticipates making a final decision on 16 June 2016, however, this 
timeline can change. To keep abreast of possible changes in relation to timing 
and to find relevant documents, interested parties should visit the Mergers 
Register on the ACCC's website at accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 


DSI – proposed acquisition of Jennmar 
 
Page 3 of 18 
Confidentiality of submissions 
11. 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We 
will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) 
unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation 
or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition 
and Consumer Act 2010.  Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where possible so that you may 
have an opportunity to be heard.  Therefore, if the information provided to the 
ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’ 
12. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well 
as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
13. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the parties to the acquisition and other interested parties with the basis for 
making further submissions should they consider it necessary. 
Timeline 
Date 
Event 
29 February 2016 
ACCC commenced review of the proposed 
acquisition 
21 April 2016 
ACCC publication of Statement of Issues 
12 May 2016 
Deadline for submissions from interested parties in 
response to this Statement of Issues 
16 June 2016 
Anticipated date for ACCC final decision  
 
The parties 
DSI 
14. 
DSI supplies ground control and post-tensioning control systems and concrete 
accessories to mining, tunnelling and construction customers in more than 90 
countries around the world. 
15. 
DSI’s subsidiary DYWIDAG-Systems International Pty Ltd (DSI Australia) 
manufactures and supplies mining support products to the coal mining and hard 
rock mining industries in Australia, including rock bolts and plates, mesh, resins 
and cementitious grouts. DSI Australia also has a small civil business which 


DSI – proposed acquisition of Jennmar 
 
Page 4 of 18 
supplies post-tensioning and geotechnical products to the construction and 
tunnelling sectors. 
16. 
DSI Australia has rock bolt manufacturing plants in Newcastle, New South 
Wales; and Perth, Western Australia.  
17. 
DSI Australia also: 
 
supplies mesh manufactured by third parties 
 
supplies resin manufactured by Rocbolt Resins Pty Ltd (Rocbolt) and 
others (Rocbolt, previously known as J-LOK Resins Australia, is a joint 
venture between DSI and Frank Calandra Inc (FCI), which manufactures 
resin capsules (DSI and Jennmar both distribute resins manufactured by 
Rocbolt)), and 
 
in the civil construction industry, manufactures thread bars for use in 
geotechnical support and galvanised bolts for use in tunnelling and re-
supplies other specialty products.  
FCI/Jennmar 
18. 
FCI is a privately owned global company, based in the USA, that manufactures 
and supplies ground control technology to the mining, tunnelling and civil 
construction industries. 
19. 
FCI’s subsidiary, Jennmar, manufactures and supplies rock bolts and plates, 
resins, mesh and cementitious grout primarily to the Australian soft rock mining 
industry, although it supplies some ground support products for use in hard rock 
mining applications and to civil construction customers. 
20. 
Jennmar has manufacturing facilities at Sydney, New South Wales; Mackay, 
North Queensland; and Perth, Western Australia.  
21. 
Jennmar also supplies: 
 
cementitious grouts and steel mesh manufactured by third parties, and 
 
resin capsules manufactured by Rocbolt. 
Other industry participants 
22. 
Ground support product suppliers typically supply their goods and services to 
mines directly or to mining contractors that operate and manage mines. The 
ACCC understands that contracts are generally awarded on a non-exclusive 
basis and do not contain minimum volume requirements.  
Ground support product suppliers  
23. 
DSI and Jennmar are the two largest suppliers of soft rock bolts in Australia. DSI 
and Jennmar are also significant suppliers of hard rock bolts and supply related 
products including resin, mesh and cementitious grout to soft rock and hard rock 
mines.  Other suppliers of ground support products tend to: 


DSI – proposed acquisition of Jennmar 
 
Page 5 of 18 
 
specialise in the supply of certain products, such as cable bolts, mesh, 
cementitious grout or resin 
 
specialise in particular applications, for example hard rock mining, or 
 
have significantly smaller market shares than DSI and Jennmar.          
Fero  
24. 
Fero is a manufacturer and supplier of ground support products to the 
underground hard rock mining and tunnelling industries. Fero manufactures rock 
bolts for use in hard rock mining applications and provides ongoing support 
services including research and development. Fero is a significant supplier of 
rock bolts to the hard rock mining industry. Fero does not supply soft rock bolts.  
Split Set Mining Systems 
25. 
Split Set Mining Systems, also known as Phoenix (Split Set), is a manufacturer 
and supplier of ground support products to the hard rock mining industry. Split 
Set manufactures rock bolts for use in hard rock mining applications and 
provides ongoing technical support and other services. Split Set does not supply 
soft rock bolts. 
Megabolt  
26. 
Megabolt is a manufacturer and supplier of high capacity strata support for 
underground coal mines. Megabolt specialises in cable bolts and offers a range 
of support services with its products including onsite testing, installation trials, 
training and auditing. Megabolt manufactures and supplies cable bolts for soft 
rock mining, but does not supply soft rock bolts or hard rock bolts.  
Minova 
27. 
Minova is a division of Orica which provides ground support products to the 
mining, civil, tunnelling, geotechnical and construction industries. Minova offers 
ground support products, including rock bolts, and associated services.1 Market 
feedback indicates that Minova is best known within the Australian ground 
support industry for its resin products.  
Tonry  
28. 
Shandong Tongrui Mining Technology Co Ltd (Tonry) is a Chinese manufacturer 
and supplier of rock bolts and complementary ground support products. The 
ACCC understands that Tonry does not currently have an on-the-ground 
presence in Australia.  
                                                 
 
1orica.com/news---media/orica-re-establishes-minova-brand-as-ground-control-leader#.VvsPSNS4aUl  


DSI – proposed acquisition of Jennmar 
 
Page 6 of 18 
Industry background 
Ground support products 
29. 
Ground support products are required to maintain the stability of openings and 
tunnels prior to, during and after excavation. Ground support products are 
required in relation to underground mining for both ‘hard rock’ mining (gold, 
copper and zinc, and gems such as diamonds) and ‘soft rock’ mining (primarily 
coal, but also salt), and also in relation to some road and infrastructure projects.  
30. 
The ACCC understands that DSI and Jennmar have a limited presence in the 
civil construction industry. Accordingly, this Statement of Issues focuses on the 
supply of ground support products to mines. 
31. 
Ground support products used in mining operations include rock bolts, and 
complementary products including resin, mesh and cementitious grout.  
Rock bolts 
32. 
Rock bolts are long steel rods of up to 3 metres in length that are used to provide 
support to the roof (roof bolts) and sides (rib bolts) of an underground mine. The 
ACCC understands that hard rock bolts and soft rock bolts are used as the 
primary support in hard rock and soft rock mines respectively. Roof and wall 
support may also be provided by ‘cable bolts’ which are longer and more flexible. 
The ACCC understands that cable bolts are mostly used for secondary support, 
providing additional reinforcement after hard rock bolts and soft rock bolts are 
already in place. For the purposes of this SOI, references to rock bolts exclude 
cable bolts unless otherwise indicated.  
33. 
Rock bolts are generally made from steel reinforcing bar. Steel bars of differing 
tensile strength are required for soft rock and hard rock mines. Arrium 
(OneSteel) is the sole manufacturer in Australia of steel reinforcing bar. The 
ACCC is aware that Arrium (OneSteel) has recently gone into voluntary 
administration, and the future of its supply of steel bar for rock bolts is yet to 
become clear. The ACCC understands some steel reinforcing bar may be 
imported by rock bolt manufacturers.  
34. 
Rock bolts are inserted into drilled holes in the roof or walls of the mine. Rock 
bolts vary according to the mechanism used to secure them into the rocks. They 
are typically secured with resin, cementitious grout or a mechanical anchor. Hard 
rock miners often use friction bolts, which are secured into the rock by the force 
of the bolt itself. All rock bolts are installed with a metal plate which sits on the 
exterior of the rock and provides extra support.  
35. 
The category of bolt used in an excavated space is determined by a range of 
factors, including the geological conditions of the area (and if it is a mine, 
whether the mine is hard rock or soft rock), the price, the ease of bolt installation, 
and whether the environment is corrosive. 
36. 
The ACCC understands that soft rock bolts generally differ from hard rock bolts 
in terms of diameter, threaded profile and strength of the steel input; these 
characteristics are in part due to the geological conditions of soft rock mines – 
soft rock is not usually as strong and is less stable than hard rock.  


DSI – proposed acquisition of Jennmar 
 
Page 7 of 18 
Complementary products – resin, mesh and cementitious grout 
37. 
Rock bolts are used in conjunction with resin, mesh and cementitious grout. 
Resin and cementitious grout are used to secure rock bolts into the roof or wall 
of an underground mine. Mesh is placed along the surface of the roof or wall to 
prevent loose rock falling into the mine. 
Figure 1: DSI ground support products installed in an underground coal mine 
 
Source: Dywidag-Systems International, DSI Info, Volume 22 (2015-2016), p 13 
Support services 
38. 
Ground support products support the roof and walls of underground mines. 
Customers have consistently reported that the importance of rock bolts to the 
safety of the mine influences their choice of rock bolt supplier.   
39. 
Market participants have stated that the service element that suppliers provide in 
conjunction with their supply of ground support products (in particular rock bolts) 
is a key factor contributing to customers’ choice of supplier. A number of 
customers identified on-the-ground support services provided by DSI and 
Jennmar as being critical to their mining operations. These services include 
quality assurance, training, testing, auditing and research/development 
(including joint product development and trials).  
The proposed transaction 
40. 
DSI proposes to acquire the Jennmar Australia ground support business from 
FCI. The proposed acquisition is one of a number of related global transactions: 
a. DSI has acquired FCI’s ground support businesses in Latin America 
and Europe 


DSI – proposed acquisition of Jennmar 
 
Page 8 of 18 
b. DSI has acquired a 50% interest in Jennmar China 
c. FCI has acquired DSI’s mining ground support business in the United 
States. 
41. 
DSI will also acquire an additional 1 per cent interest in Rocbolt, resulting in DSI 
and FCI having equal equity interests in this joint venture in Australia. 
Future with and without the acquisition  
42. 
Section 50 of the Act prohibits mergers or acquisitions that would have the effect 
or be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market.  
43. 
In assessing a proposed acquisition pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC 
considers the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future competitive 
environment post-acquisition if the acquisition proceeds (the “with” position) to 
the likely future competitive environment if the acquisition does not proceed (the 
“without” position) to determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in any relevant market. 
44. 
On the basis of the information currently available, the ACCC considers that, in 
the absence of the proposed acquisition, Jennmar would be likely to remain as a 
competitor to DSI in the supply of ground support products, in particular soft rock 
bolts and complementary products, in Australia.  
Market definition 
45. 
The ACCC’s starting point for delineating relevant markets to assess the 
competitive effects of the proposed acquisition involves identifying the products 
actually or potentially supplied by the parties, with particular reference to those 
areas where they ‘overlap’ in their business activities. The ACCC then considers 
what other factors are likely to apply a significant source of constraint to the 
parties after the acquisition. These can be considered from a range of 
perspectives, including with respect to product and geographic dimensions.  
Areas of overlap 
46. 
DSI and Jennmar overlap in the supply of the following ground support products: 
 
soft rock bolts 
 
hard rock bolts  
 
cable bolts 
 
resin  
 
mesh, and  
 
cementitious grout. 
47. 
After the acquisition, DSI will be the largest supplier of soft rock bolts and hard 
rock bolts in Australia. DSI will also be a significant supplier of cable bolts, resin, 
mesh, and, to a lesser extent, cementitious grout.  


DSI – proposed acquisition of Jennmar 
 
Page 9 of 18 
48. 
Market participants report that DSI and Jennmar compete closely with each 
other and are the two main soft rock bolt suppliers. The ACCC understands that 
a combined DSI-Jennmar will account for the vast majority of supply of soft rock 
bolts (excluding cable bolts) to soft rock customers in Australia. Some market 
participants also consider that DSI and Jennmar are the only domestic suppliers 
who currently offer the full range of ground support products required for soft 
rock mining, including all the different types of rock bolts and complementary 
products. Other suppliers specialise in niche or complementary products, or 
other applications such as hard rock mining.      
Product dimension of the relevant market 
49. 
The ACCC considers that the key area of competitive overlap between DSI and 
Jennmar is in the supply of rock bolts, and in particular the supply of soft rock 
bolts. An important question is whether the supply of soft rock bolts constitutes a 
separate relevant market. This section considers the extent to which hard rock 
bolts or cable bolts may be demand or supply side substitutes for soft rock 
bolts.2 
Customer alternatives to soft rock bolts 
50. 
Market inquiries to date indicate that soft rock bolts are unlikely to be 
substitutable, from a customer perspective, with hard rock bolts in most 
applications. The ACCC understands that rock bolts used in soft rock mining 
compared to hard rock mining generally have different characteristics. As noted 
above, soft rock bolts can differ from hard rock bolts in terms of diameter, 
threaded profile and strength of the steel input.  
51. 
The ACCC understands that cable bolts are primarily used at the secondary 
support stage in soft rock mining (after the soft rock bolts are already in place). 
Initial market feedback indicates that cable bolts are a considerably more 
expensive product, so are only used when other rock bolts are not suitable. The 
ACCC does not consider that cable bolts are a close substitute for other types of 
rock bolts from a customer perspective. 
52. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that there is weak demand-side substitutability 
between soft rock bolts, hard rock bolts and cable bolts.  
Supply side opportunities 
53. 
Other ground support products may be in the same market as soft rock bolts if 
manufacturing facilities and distribution networks can be easily and profitably 
switched to soft rock bolts.  
54. 
Market participants have indicated that hard rock bolt manufacturing facilities can 
be re-tooled relatively easily to produce soft rock bolts and vice versa. This 
indicates there is the potential for supply-side substitutability between 
manufacturers of hard and soft rock bolts.  
                                                 
 
2 This Statement of Issues does not define separate markets for the supply of hard rock bolts or cable 
bolts. This is because the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition would not be likely to 
lead to a substantial lessening of competition in such markets. This is discussed further at paragraphs 107 
to 109. 


DSI – proposed acquisition of Jennmar 
 
Page 10 of 18 
55. 
However, the ACCC considers that such substitution may nevertheless be 
impeded by other factors. A manufacturer which has not previously supplied soft 
rock bolts would need to establish a reputation for the safe supply of soft rock 
bolts, before it could win enough customers to operate at the scale necessary to 
be competitive. It would need to make related investments including product 
development, engaging staff with relevant expertise, and establishing a 
distribution network including warehousing premises (given the different 
locations of soft rock mines and hard rock mines). 
56. 
These factors call into question the extent to which suppliers of hard rock bolts 
would be likely to constrain DSI effectively if the proposed acquisition proceeded. 
These issues are considered further below in the context of barriers to entry. 
57. 
The ACCC understands that cable bolts are produced using different machinery 
that cannot be easily retooled to produce hard rock or soft rock bolts. 
58. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the key relevant market is for the supply of 
soft rock bolts, but not cable bolts or hard rock bolts. However, the ACCC 
considers that existing suppliers of hard rock bolts are better placed than cable 
bolt suppliers to enter into the soft rock bolt market. The ACCC continues to 
consider the extent to which hard rock bolt suppliers could start supplying soft 
rock bolts.  
Geographic dimension of the market 
59. 
Market inquiries to date suggest that the proposed acquisition should be 
considered in the context of national markets.  
60. 
Based on the information received to date, the ACCC considers it may not be 
necessary for rock bolt manufacturing facilities to be located close to customer 
mine sites. Rock bolts can be transported within Australia, although it is 
important for suppliers to have warehousing or distribution facilities located fairly 
close to a customer’s mine. In addition to DSI and Jennmar’s manufacturing 
facilities which are outlined above at paragraphs 16 and 20 respectively, DSI and 
Jennmar both operate supply centres close to major mining regions.  
61. 
The ACCC is continuing to consider the extent to which it is advantageous for a 
rock bolt supplier to have manufacturing facilities in close geographic proximity 
to the mines it supplies. 
Preliminary view on relevant markets 
62. 
Based on information received by the ACCC to date, the ACCC’s preliminary 
view is that the market most relevant for assessing the competition effects of the 
proposed acquisition is a national market for the supply of soft rock bolts. Other 
markets of relevance are national markets for the supply of each of the following: 
 
hard rock bolts 
 
cable bolts 
 
resin 
 
mesh, and 


DSI – proposed acquisition of Jennmar 
 
Page 11 of 18 
 
cementitious grout. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary views about 
the definition of the relevant market(s). In particular, market participants may wish to 
comment on: 
 
The extent to which soft rock, hard rock and cable bolts are interchangeable from a 
customer’s perspective, noting particularly any situations in which it may be 
possible to use one type of bolt in place of another.   
 
The extent to which rock bolt suppliers can quickly and easily switch between 
supplying soft rock, hard rock and cable bolts, noting particularly any commercial, 
reputational, contractual or regulatory barriers to switching. 
 
Whether the ACCC’s preliminary market definition of the national supply of soft 
rock bolts is appropriate, or if the relevant market should be for the supply of hard 
rock and soft rock bolts. Please provide reasons for your answer.  
Issue of concern: lessening of competition in the supply of 
soft rock bolts 
63. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in the supply of soft rock bolts by providing DSI 
with increased ability to raise prices and lower service quality. 
64. 
The proposed acquisition would unite the only two significant suppliers of soft 
rock bolts (excluding cable bolts), resulting in only one major supplier of soft rock 
bolts. DSI and Jennmar are each other’s closest competitors and likely to be the 
greatest competitive constraint on each other. The proposed acquisition would 
eliminate competition between them. 
65. 
There may be potential for suppliers of hard rock bolts to enter the market for the 
supply of soft rock bolts to compete with DSI. However, these potential suppliers 
are unlikely to replace the close competitive constraint that DSI and Jennmar 
currently impose on each other.  
66. 
The ACCC notes that Jennmar has been the only significant new entrant into the 
soft rock bolt market for around 20 years. Market inquiries to date have indicated 
that there are likely to be a number of barriers to entry, described below, which 
may limit the prospects of new entry into the supply of soft rock bolts. 
Closeness of competition between DSI and Jennmar  
67. 
The ACCC understands that customers generally select their rock bolt supplier 
via competitive tender processes, for contracts which are generally of 1 to 3 
years in duration, and may include options to extend. DSI and Jennmar are the 
two main participants in these tender processes. Customers can use tender 
processes to improve their terms of supply without necessarily switching 
supplier. 
68. 
In addition to price, an important aspect of competition between suppliers is the 
support services they provide to mining customers. Market inquiries have 
indicated that Jennmar is a leader in both price and service quality and is a 


DSI – proposed acquisition of Jennmar 
 
Page 12 of 18 
significant source of competitive tension to DSI (as DSI is to Jennmar) in soft 
rock bolt tender processes. 
69. 
The ACCC considers that competition between suppliers is also likely to occur 
on the basis of product development and innovation. The ACCC understands 
that the design of rock bolts is continually evolving to suit different types of 
geographic terrain, including some that are specific to Australia, and to save 
installation time, which is highly valuable to customers. Because of the large 
number of rock bolts installed in each mine, even a few seconds’ time saving per 
bolt can add up to a substantial efficiency saving.  
70. 
Market feedback indicates that DSI and Jennmar compete on innovation, 
including trying to replicate each other’s product offerings, which benefits 
customers. Market participants noted that prior to Jennmar’s entry into Australia 
prices were higher and there was limited innovation. The ACCC is considering 
whether, after the acquisition, in the absence of competition between DSI and 
Jennmar, there may be reduced competition and reduced incentive for 
innovation. 
Barriers to entry  
71. 
As noted above, the ACCC considers that a key question in this matter is 
whether new entry into the supply of soft rock bolts is likely, and whether it would 
be sufficiently timely and on a large enough scale to constrain DSI after the 
proposed acquisition. If DSI knows that entry would be timely, likely and 
sufficient, it may be constrained from increasing prices or decreasing service 
levels following the proposed acquisition. However, if there are significant 
barriers faced by other potential suppliers, the threat of entry may be insufficient 
to constrain DSI after the acquisition. 
72. 
A number of barriers to entry have been identified during the course of market 
inquiries. 
73. 
The ACCC is considering whether some of these barriers may be lower for hard 
rock bolt suppliers seeking to enter the soft rock bolt market, compared to the 
situation for other entrants. 
74. 
However, market participants indicate that new entry into the supply of soft rock 
bolts has been limited and, with the exception of Jennmar nearly twenty years 
ago, generally unsuccessful. The barriers described below may explain this 
history. 
Ability to achieve economies of scale 
75. 
Market feedback indicates the industry is characterised by economies of scale. 
Larger suppliers can access significant volume discounts on the purchase of 
steel, which represents the majority of the costs of production. After the 
proposed acquisition, DSI may be able to access economies of scale through: 
 
volume discounts in purchasing the steel from which rock bolts are 
manufactured 
 
rationalisation of manufacturing and distribution facilities.  
76. 
The ACCC notes that any such economies of scale may represent economic 
efficiencies. However, if a new supplier of soft rock bolts cannot quickly achieve 


DSI – proposed acquisition of Jennmar 
 
Page 13 of 18 
sufficient scale to capture similar efficiencies, they may perceive economies of 
scale to be a barrier to entry. To the extent there is customer inertia and/or 
stickiness in terms of being willing or able to move to a new supplier due to 
reputational considerations, and/or the existence of significant supplier contracts, 
a new entrant may need to provide services at a loss for a considerable period of 
time before it can match the scale advantages of an incumbent. Such losses 
could represent a significant barrier to entry for a potential new supplier of soft 
rock bolts.  
Reluctance to switch suppliers 
77. 
The ability of new entrants to pose a credible threat of entry depends in part on 
being able to win customer contracts. In this respect, the ACCC considers there 
may be some reluctance on the part of customers to switch suppliers.  
78. 
The ACCC understands that customers and suppliers undertake extensive 
collaboration including:  
 
ensuring that products meet the technical requirements of the mine and are 
tested on the mine site 
 
developing new products, and  
 
establishing systems and procedures for a range of functions including 
installation, safety and stock management. 
79. 
Market inquires have indicated that switching to a new provider is likely to 
involve costs, including testing and collaborating on different products and 
establishing new systems and procedures. These processes are also likely to be 
time consuming, with the potential to delay operations at the mine. Established 
suppliers such as DSI and Jennmar may be better placed to overcome these 
incumbency advantages.   
80. 
In addition, given that rock bolts are critical to ensuring safety in mines, a 
supplier’s reputation for quality and safety is extremely important to customers. 
Market inquiries have suggested that overcoming the reputational advantages 
held by an incumbent in terms of reliability and safety would be a significant 
barrier for a potential new supplier of soft rock bolts. 
81. 
Customers have also suggested that some rock bolts and ancillary products are 
subject to patents, which may raise a further barrier to entry in terms of being 
able to match DSI’s product offering and research and development. 
82. 
The ACCC considers that an established ground support provider, such as a 
provider of hard rock bolts, to some extent may be able to rely on an already 
established reputation for quality and safety. This may better enable it to 
overcome some of the switching costs than a new entrant without experience in 
ground support supply. 
Support services 
83. 
As noted above, suppliers of rock bolts provide extensive ancillary support 
functions. Market inquiries have indicated that customers find these support 
services essential, and that the quality and availability of such support is critical 
to their choice of rock bolt supplier.  


DSI – proposed acquisition of Jennmar 
 
Page 14 of 18 
84. 
Some customers said they could not supply these services in-house, and 
overseas suppliers could not offer them without an arrangement with a local, 
established distributor. Customers have not, so far, identified the use of third 
party consultants as an alternative option. The ACCC has received a range of 
views as to the barriers facing entrants who wish to commence supplying these 
services. Some market participants have stated that the supply of these services 
may be relatively straightforward. The ACCC is continuing to investigate the 
ease and timeliness with which new suppliers of soft rock bolts could supply 
these services. 
85. 
The ACCC considers that a new supplier of soft rock bolts would require on-the-
ground staff with the relevant technical expertise to work with onsite mine staff 
on a range of support functions. The ACCC is continuing to investigate the 
extent to which existing suppliers of ground support products, particularly hard 
rock bolts, would currently have some of that expertise or the ability to quickly 
and easily obtain it at relatively low cost in a manner that meets customers’ 
requirements.  
Demand for ground support in coal (the main type of soft rock) 
86. 
World coal prices peaked in 2011-2012 and have since declined dramatically, as 
global production has exceeded demand. Black coal mining has experienced a 
compounded average annual decline of 6.5 per cent over the past five years, 
although industry analysis suggests that increased demand for coal and 
projected depreciation of the Australian dollar may make Australian coal 
comparatively more affordable and result in some market growth in coming 
years.3    
87. 
Market feedback suggests the ground support industry is currently in a position 
of over-supply, particularly for the coal industry, and some market participants 
have stated that new entry is unlikely while the market continues to decline. 
Ability to offer a range of products 
88. 
The ACCC is considering the extent to which customers prefer suppliers who 
can provide an extensive range of ground support products. Market inquiries 
indicate that some customers tender for a range of products including rock bolts, 
resin, mesh and cementitious grout, while others prefer to tender category by 
category. 
89. 
DSI and Jennmar can supply the full range of ground support products. This may 
provide an advantage in tender processes over other potential suppliers of soft 
rock bolts that do not currently supply all these products. The ACCC is 
continuing to investigate the importance to customers of having a single supplier, 
and the difficulty, if any, a new entrant might face in offering a full product range. 
Imports 
90. 
The ACCC is considering the level of competitive constraint that might be 
provided by imports – either through customers importing rock bolts directly, or 
local suppliers importing them for distribution. The ACCC understands that 
                                                 
 
3 IBISWorld, Black Coal Mining in Australia, September 2015. 


DSI – proposed acquisition of Jennmar 
 
Page 15 of 18 
imports of rock bolts have been limited to date, but there are overseas suppliers 
interested in supplying to Australia, and in establishing links with Australian 
distributors and/or customers.  
91. 
Market inquiries suggest that there are a number of obstacles to customers 
importing soft rock bolts directly, including: 
 
freight costs 
 
setting up a reliable logistics chain to ensure regular and timely availability 
of products 
 
the need to regularly test products for quality and safety, and 
 
absence of an on-the-ground presence for support services. 
92. 
The ACCC is considering the obstacles identified and what would be involved in 
overcoming them.   
93. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that while customers are unlikely to import soft 
rock bolts directly, imports may be a more viable option for companies with 
existing ground support businesses in Australia. Local distributors may be able 
to conduct ongoing quality testing themselves and make quality assurances to 
customers, as well as provide local support services. However, concerns about 
reliability of supply may mean that imports are not viable as a primary source of 
supply. 
94. 
The ACCC has received a range of views in relation to imports, and is continuing 
to investigate the circumstances in which customers or suppliers might consider 
importing soft rock bolts. 
95. 
The ACCC is also continuing to investigate the extent to which some of these 
barriers might be overcome by overseas manufacturers entering the Australian 
market by establishing a local presence. 
Countervailing power 
96. 
Given that ground support is a significant expense for mines, the ACCC is 
considering the extent to which large mining companies would be likely to 
establish their own manufacturing facilities, sponsor new entry or directly import 
soft rock bolts in the event that DSI sought to raise prices or decrease service 
quality.  
97. 
Market inquires to date indicate that: 
 
Customers will not consider manufacturing ground support products 
themselves. 
 
Customers are unlikely to import soft rock bolts directly, for the reasons noted 
above. 
 
Sponsoring a new local supplier/distributor may be possible but it is not clear 
under what circumstances customers would consider this as an option. Market 
inquiries indicated that many customers do not consider they have the 
expertise to do this, or they do not see the market as being attractive to a new 
entrant.  


DSI – proposed acquisition of Jennmar 
 
Page 16 of 18 
ACCC’s preliminary views 
98. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is likely to lead to a 
substantial lessening of competition in the national market for the supply of soft 
rock bolts, such that DSI is likely to be able to increase prices, decrease service 
levels and/or reduce innovation following the proposed acquisition. Barriers to 
entry are likely to limit the ability for other potential suppliers to adequately 
constrain DSI.  
99. 
The ACCC is considering whether established local suppliers of other ground 
support products, particularly hard rock bolts, are likely to be able to compete in 
the supply of soft rock bolts in a way that is sufficient and timely enough to pose 
a strong competitive constraint.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to the 
supply of soft rock bolts.  In particular market participants may wish to comment on the 
following: 
 
Why, with the exception of Jennmar, there has been limited new entry into the 
supply of soft rock bolts in the last twenty years.  
If you are a customer of soft rock bolts: 
 
The extent to which DSI and Jennmar compete to supply soft rock bolts. Please 
comment on how this competition occurs with respect to price, service and/or 
product innovation. 
 
Whether you have switched suppliers before. Please provide details.  
 
Your ability and willingness to switch, and under what circumstances you would 
consider switching. Please note particularly the time it would take, costs and any 
product testing that would be involved.  
 
Whether you would consider importing soft rock bolts directly, or purchasing 
imported soft rock bolts from an Australian distributor. Please state your reasons, 
including how much local prices would need to increase for you to consider imports 
as a viable option. 
 
The extent to which it is important for a supplier of soft rock bolts to have a 
presence in Australia. Please state your reasons.  
 
The extent to which service is relevant to your choice of soft rock bolt supplier, 
including whether you would consider purchasing soft rock bolts from a supplier 
who does not offer ongoing service, and if you would perform ground support 
services (like product training, quality testing and auditing services) in house or 
using a geotechnical consultancy service, or other third party.  
If you are a supplier of ground support products: 
 
The process for a new entrant to supply soft rock bolts. Please comment on start-
up costs (including facilities and machinery, access to inputs, the provision of 
service, establishment of distribution channels), and any incentives or disincentives 
to entry of which you are aware. Please comment on whether entry may be easier 
for potential entrants who already supply hard rock bolts. 
 
The extent to which DSI’s and Jennmar’s product patents give them an advantage 
over a potential new entrant into soft rock bolts.  
 
The extent to which you consider imports are a viable supply source for your 
business, noting particularly whether you currently rely on imports either as a 


DSI – proposed acquisition of Jennmar 
 
Page 17 of 18 
primary or secondary source of supply for rock bolts, and whether this is likely to 
change given the voluntary administration of Arrium. Please comment in relation to 
inputs (particularly steel) as well as finished products. 
 
The level of service you provide with your products and whether you, or your 
customers, outsource any of this service to geotechnical consultants or other third 
parties. 
Issue which may raise concerns: foreclosing rivals’ access 
to customers in markets for related products 
100. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition may substantially 
lessen competition by increasing DSI’s ability and incentive to foreclose rivals 
from competing for customers in markets for related products following the 
acquisition. If the proposed acquisition increases DSI’s market power in the 
supply of soft rock bolts, DSI may engage in foreclosure strategies to prevent 
rivals from competing for customers in related markets (such as resins, mesh 
and cementitious grout), or raise rivals’ costs in those markets. 
101. A brief overview of these related product markets, including DSI’s and Jennmar’s 
current position in each, is outlined below.   
102. Resin: DSI and FCI (Jennmar’s current owner) are currently participants in a 
joint venture, Rocbolt, which manufactures resin capsules and which the ACCC 
understands would continue to do so post-acquisition. While the proposed 
acquisition will result in the loss of Jennmar as a competing distribution channel 
to DSI, initial market feedback indicates that Minova is a strong existing 
competitor in the supply of resins. 
103. Mesh: DSI and Jennmar currently supply mesh manufactured by third parties; 
they do not produce mesh products themselves. Market feedback indicates there 
are a range of existing local mesh manufacturers and overseas suppliers used 
by ground support customers and that there appear to be fewer logistical and 
other issues with importing mesh as opposed to rock bolts.  Barriers to entry or 
expansion appear to be lower than in relation to rock bolts.   
104. Cementitious grout: Based on the information available there is limited 
competitive overlap between DSI and Jennmar in relation to cementitious grout. 
There are numerous cementitious grout suppliers, which between them have 
significant market share. Barriers to new entry, or expansion by existing cement 
suppliers, appear to be lower than for rock bolts and imports are readily 
available. 
105. If these markets are assessed individually, the proposed acquisition is unlikely to 
lead to horizontal aggregation effects.  
106. However, following the acquisition, if DSI has market power in soft rock bolts, it 
may have the ability and incentive to compel (or strongly incentivise) customers 
to purchase a bundle of its own ground support products. This may in turn lessen 
competition in the related product markets.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to the 
ability of DSI to foreclose rivals from competing for customers in markets for related 
products. In particular, market participants may wish to comment on the following: 


DSI – proposed acquisition of Jennmar 
 
Page 18 of 18 
 
The likelihood that the proposed acquisition will increase the ability or incentive of 
DSI to withhold supply of soft rock bolts unless customers also purchase other 
products. 
 
Practical examples of how DSI could foreclose rivals from access to markets for 
related products.  
Issue unlikely to raise concerns: the supply of other rock 
bolts  
107. The ACCC considers that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to substantially 
lessen competition in the supply of hard rock bolts and the supply of cable bolts.  
108. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that there are likely to be sufficient alternative 
suppliers of hard rock bolts that would be able to constrain DSI post-acquisition. 
In particular, the ACCC notes the presence of a number of existing hard rock bolt 
suppliers including Fero, Split Set and Minova.  
109. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that Megabolt is likely to be able to constrain 
DSI after the acquisition in relation to cable bolts, given Megabolt’s significant 
position in cable bolts.   
The ACCC invites comments from market participants in relation to the supply of other 
rock bolts. 
ACCC's future steps 
110. The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
111. As noted above, the ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on 
each of the issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue 
that may be relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. Submissions are 
to be received by the ACCC no later than 12 May 2016 and should be emailed to 
mergers@accc.gov.au. 
112. The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 16 June 2016. However 
the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Merger Review Process 
Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose of explaining the 
ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's public announcement. 
