Page 1 of 27 
 
 
Statement of Issues 
4 May 2017 
APN Outdoor Group Limited – proposed merger with 
oOh!media Limited  
Purpose 
1. 
APN Outdoor Group Limited (APO) and oOh!media Limited (OML) propose to 
merge (the proposed merger).  
2. 
This Statement of Issues: 
 
gives the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission’s (ACCC’s) 
preliminary views on competition issues arising from the proposed merger  
 
identifies areas of further inquiry 
 
invites interested parties to submit comments and information to assist our 
assessment of the issues. 
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views 
3. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed merger is in 
section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits 
acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of 
substantially lessening competition in any market. 
4. 
The ACCC divides its preliminary views into three categories: ‘issues of 
concern’, ‘issues that may raise concerns’ and ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’. 
In relation to this matter, the ACCC has three ‘issues of concern’. 
Issues of concern 
Reduction in competition in the supply of out-of-home advertising services 
5. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed merger is likely to result in a 
substantial lessening of competition in the supply of out-of-home (OOH) 
advertising services (also known as “outdoor” advertising services) in Australia.  


Page 2 of 27 
6. 
The proposed merger would result in the consolidation of the number one and 
number two providers of OOH advertising services (OOH providers) in Australia 
and create a market leader with over 50 per cent share of the OOH advertising 
market1 and a substantial share in three of the four main OOH categories, as 
defined by the Outdoor Media Association (OMA)2: roadside billboards; roadside 
other; transport/transit; and retail/lifestyle/other (the exception being ‘roadside 
other’). 
7. 
The ACCC does not consider that media agencies are likely to begin supplying 
OOH advertising services themselves, as they lack any strong incentive to do so 
given that advertising costs are generally passed onto their customers. 
8. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed merger is likely to result in 
higher prices for OOH advertising and/or reduced service levels, and possibly 
less innovation.  
Increase in barriers to entry and expansion  
9. 
A combined APO-OML would be the only OOH provider with a presence in each 
of the OOH advertising categories. As noted above, the ACCC understands that 
a combined APO-OML would have a substantial share in three of the four main 
OOH categories. 
10. 
It is the ACCC’s preliminary view that this unrivalled presence would enable a 
combined APO-OML to offer OOH advertising services across multiple 
categories, forming a ‘one-stop shop’ for many advertisers/media agencies who 
buy advertising services in more than one category. Such bundling is likely to 
increase barriers to entry/expansion for other players. 
Reduction in competition for the leasing of OOH advertising sites 
11. 
The ACCC is also of the preliminary view that the proposed merger is likely to 
result in a substantial lessening of competition for OOH advertising sites as a 
result of the loss of the competitive tension that currently exists between APO 
and OML in site negotiations and tender processes. This is likely to harm site 
owners through lower site rent.  
Making a submission 
12. 
The ACCC is seeking submissions from interested parties, particularly on the 
following key issues: 
 
whether the price of OOH advertising services is likely to increase as a 
result of the proposed merger 
 
the likelihood of new entry or expansion in OOH advertising services in 
Australia 
 
the impact of the proposed merger on landlords/site owners.  
                                                 
 
1 A reference to market share in this Statement of Issues means market share by value (revenue) unless 
otherwise specified. 
2 The OMA is the peak body for the OOH advertising industry. 


Page 3 of 27 
13. 
Detailed discussion of these and other issues, along with specific questions, is 
contained in this Statement of Issues.  
14. 
Interested parties should provide submissions by no later than 5pm on 19 May 
2017. Responses may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: 
Submission re: APO/OML - attention Madeleine Houghton/John Rouw. If you 
would like to discuss the matter with ACCC officers over the telephone or in 
person, or have any questions about this Statement of Issues, please contact 
Madeleine Houghton on (02) 9230 3816 or John Rouw on (03) 9290 1402.  
15. 
The ACCC anticipates making a final decision on 6 July 2017; however, this 
timeline can change. To keep abreast of possible changes in relation to timing 
and to find relevant documents, interested parties should visit the Mergers 
Register on the ACCC's website at www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
Confidentiality of submissions 
16. 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed merger. The 
ACCC will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our 
advisors/consultants) unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of 
information legislation or during court proceedings) or in accordance with 
s155AAA of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is 
required to disclose confidential information, the ACCC will notify you in advance 
where possible so that you may have an opportunity to be heard. Therefore, if 
the information provided to the ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate 
as such. The ACCC’s Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more 
information on confidentiality. 
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’ 
17. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well 
as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
18. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 
Timeline 
16 December 2016 
ACCC commenced review under the Merger Process 
Guidelines. 
30 January 2017 
Closing date for submissions from interested parties. 
ACCC assessing information provided during market 
inquiries and consulting with merger parties on any 
relevant issues or concerns arising. 
1 February 2017 
ACCC requested further information from the merger 
parties. 


Page 4 of 27 
13 February 2017 
ACCC received further information from the merger parties. 
17 February 2017 
Former provisional date for announcement of findings (9 
March 2017) delayed (to 16 March 2017), given the time 
required for merger parties to respond to 1 February 
information request, and to allow the ACCC to consider the 
information provided. 
10 March 2017 
The merger parties requested that the ACCC delay the 
timeline to allow them to provide further information to the 
ACCC. Former provisional decision date of 16 March 2017 
delayed (to 4 May 2017). 
4 May 2017 
ACCC releases Statement of Issues 
19 May 2017 
Deadline for submissions from interested parties in 
response to this Statement of Issues 
6 July 2017 
Anticipated date for ACCC final decision 
The parties 
APO 
19. 
APO is an OOH provider listed on the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX) 
(following an initial public offering (IPO) in 2014). APO offers advertising services 
from OOH sites in Australia and New Zealand including billboards, transit 
advertising, and advertising at airport and rail sites (see Industry Background 
section below for more information on the different OOH categories). APO also 
owns Catch, a product designed to connect advertisers with transit commuters 
through their mobile devices by providing free Wi-Fi and content access, and 
GSP Print, which provides printing services that are predominantly used by APO.  
20. 
APO was established in 2004 through the combination of Cody, Australian 
Posters and Buspak, which at the time were owned by APN News & Media 
Limited. APO is no longer associated with APN News & Media Limited, which 
separately owns and operates Adshel (a competing OOH provider). 
21. 
The ACCC understands that APO has approximately 20 to 30 per cent of OOH 
advertising revenue in Australia. According to its 2014 ASX Prospectus (APO 
Prospectus),3 APO occupies leading positions in its core areas of focus. APO 
states that it is: 
 
number-one in billboards in Australia and New Zealand (by number of 
panels) in major cities and metropolitan regions 
 
number-one in large-format digital billboards in Australia and New Zealand 
(by number of panels) 
                                                 
 
3 APN Outdoor Group Limited Prospectus, Initial public offering of ordinary shares, 27 October 2014, 
page 10, http://www.asx.com.au/asxpdf/20141111/pdf/42tmjj3bq3yr54.pdf. 


Page 5 of 27 
 
the number-one provider of rail advertising on roadside locations and cross 
track across Australia and New Zealand (by number of panels) 
 
in a leading position in airports across Australia and New Zealand.   
22. 
APO states that these leading positions are underpinned by: 
 
an extensive portfolio of geographically diverse, premium high-traffic 
capital city-based sites 
 
long-term contractual relationships with landlords and asset owners who 
sell advertising space/sites 
 
scale and strength of existing operations across OOH categories.  
23. 
Additionally, APO states that it has been a market leader in the digitisation of 
OOH advertising. APO describes itself as having the first mover advantage in 
large-format digital advertising opportunities, with a strong pipeline of potential 
conversions (of static sites) and new sites throughout Australia.  
OML 
24. 
OML is an OOH provider listed on the ASX (also following an IPO in 2014). OML 
offers advertising services at OOH sites in Australia and New Zealand including 
billboards, retail advertising, location-based advertising (including within 
buildings, universities, pubs, cafés and fitness centres) and advertising at airport 
sites. OML also owns and operates the content production business Junkee 
Media, and Cactus Imaging which provides printing services. The ACCC 
understands that OML has more than 30 per cent of OOH advertising revenue in 
Australia. 
25. 
In its 2014 ASX Prospectus (OML Prospectus)4, OML states that it: 
 
is the overall market leader by share of revenue in the supply of OOH 
advertising services  
 
holds the number-one position in the supply of OOH roadside services by 
number of sites. OML’s national roadside billboard portfolio offers 
advertisers a diverse broadcast advertising mix, with OML operating over 
4,000 national sites which reach the vast majority of Australia’s adult 
population on a weekly basis 
 
holds the number-one position in the supply of OOH advertising services in 
airports, with approximately 70 per cent share by revenue. OML’s ‘Fly’ 
division provides coverage across all domestic airport terminals in 
Australia. OML is the exclusive provider to Qantas Lounges 
 
holds the number-one position in the retail category with greater than 70 
per cent share by revenue. OML is the market leader in the relatively high-
                                                 
 
4 oOh!media Limited Prospectus, Initial Public Offering of Ordinary Shares, 5 December 2014, 
http://investors.oohmedia.com.au/FormBuilder/_Resource/_module/E4ATEEIQ0kSnc4yT1XnXrg/docs/r
eports/oOh!media-Prospectus.pdf. 


Page 6 of 27 
growth retail and place (cafés, office buildings, universities etc.) categories, 
which grew 19.1 per cent in FY2014 compared with the OOH industry 
average growth of 7.8 per cent  
 
has the market leading position in the OOH categories which provide 
advertisers with the highest return on investment (ROI).5 
26. 
OML states that its portfolio includes an extensive range of long-term OOH 
advertising sites with limited re-contracting risk each year. As at 31 August 2014:  
 
OML’s Road division (excluding represented sites6) had an average initial 
lease period of 10 years, with 61 per cent of the portfolio due to mature 
post CY2018 and 10 per cent or less of leases/licences due for renewal 
between CY2014-18 
 
55 per cent of OML’s Retail portfolio was not due to mature until post-2018 
 
OML had no single contract renewal during the following five years that 
would materially impact earnings if not renewed.7  
27. 
Like APO, OML has invested significantly in digitisation of its OOH inventory in 
the past five years. APO and OML are considered to be the industry leaders in 
the investment into and supply of digital OOH advertising opportunities in 
Australia.  
Industry background 
28. 
There are a variety of platforms available to advertisers to advertise their 
products, including television (free-to-air and ‘pay TV’), print (such as 
newspapers and magazines) and online/digital. They may also seek to achieve 
publicity through being featured in news and social media. The supply of 
advertising platforms to advertisers has gone through a number of changes in 
recent years, in particular with the decline of print media and the growth in 
digital/online media, such as Google and Facebook.   
29. 
OOH advertising is an advertising platform that reaches consumers on the move 
or in particular environments. OOH advertising opportunities are diverse, ranging 
from very large high impact banners and large-format billboards on the side of 
roads, to advertising on bus shelters, in stations, on trains, taxis and buses, at 
leisure centres, in public toilets and in shopping malls and supermarkets. 
30. 
Different market participants divide OOH advertising into categories in different 
ways, but they are broadly consistent. 
31. 
For example, OML classifies its operations and offerings as follows: 
                                                 
 
5 OML Prospectus, pages 12 and 19.  
6 As set out at page 45 of the OML Prospectus, owned sites are those where OML holds the master 
lease/licence to the site and generally owns the physical infrastructure. Represented sites are those where 
OML acts as the sales representative on behalf of the party that either owns the site or holds the master 
lease/licence.  
7 OML Prospectus, page 14. 


Page 7 of 27 
 
‘Road’ – large format roadside billboards 
 
‘Retail’ – sites located in retail precincts such as shopping centres and 
supermarkets 
 
‘Fly’ – sites in airport terminals and lounges 
 
‘Locate by oOh!’ – sites in high dwell time environments such as CBD 
office buildings, cafés, pubs, universities, gyms and sports centres.8 
32. 
APO defines its key formats as: 
 
digital billboards 
 
static roadside billboards 
 
transit (bus and tram) advertising 
 
rail (train and station) advertising 
 
airport advertising.9 
33. 
The OMA, refers to four different categories of OOH advertising: 
 
roadside billboards (large and small-format billboards) 
 
roadside - other (this includes bus/tram shelters, kiosks, phone booths, 
mobile billboards and public toilets, and is also referred to as ‘street 
furniture’) 
 
transport/transit (this includes train externals, railway stations, bus 
interchanges, bus/tram internals and airport internals and externals 
(although ‘airports’ are sometimes viewed as a distinct category)) 
 
retail/lifestyle/other (this includes shopping centres, malls, pubs and cafés, 
medical centres, petrol stations, public toilets and convenience stores). 
34. 
The ACCC will refer to the OMA’s classification in the rest of this Statement of 
Issues. 
35. 
According to the Commercial Economic Advisory Service of Australia (CEASA), 
OOH advertising represents approximately 5.3 per cent of total advertising 
industry spend in Australia, as shown in Figure 1 below. 
                                                 
 
8 OML Website, Investors, the Company, viewed 2 May 2017, 
http://investors.oohmedia.com.au/Investor-
Centre/?page=Home&_ga=1.92088028.730520369.1481025380. 
9 APO Website, About Us, What we do, viewed 2 May 2017, http://www.apnoutdoor.com.au/about-
us/what-we-do. 


Page 8 of 27 
Figure 1: Total advertising expenditure in main media in 2015 
Source data: OMA and CEASA (excluding classified and directories)10 
**Other print includes business and rural publications 
                                                 
 
10 OMA Industry Performance, Economic, viewed 2 May 2017, http://oma.org.au/facts-and-
figures/industry-performance. 


Page 9 of 27 
36. 
As shown in Figure 2 below, 2016 was the seventh consecutive year of growth 
in OOH advertising, with revenue of $790 million, a more than 15 per cent 
increase on the previous year.  
Figure 2: OOH advertising revenue, 2002-2016 
 
Source data: OMA, from figures reported to OMA by market participants11 
37. 
The reach of OOH has also increased, with the overall audience for OOH 
advertising increasing for the sixth consecutive year since records began, 
according to the OOH industry’s measurement system Measurement of Outdoor 
Visibility and Exposure (MOVE), with 2016 data showing overall audience growth 
of 2.8 per cent.12 
OOH advertising supply chain 
38. 
OOH providers act as intermediaries between advertisers/media agencies and 
site owners. The sites are the means by which to reach the ultimate viewers 
(consumers) of OOH advertising. The main OOH providers in Australia and their 
estimated shares of OOH advertising are set out in Table 1 below. 
                                                 
 
11 OMA Industry Performance, Revenue Results, viewed 2 May 2017, http://oma.org.au/facts-and-
figures/industry-performance. The OMA states on its website that it generates performance reporting for 
the OOH industry through the compilation of revenue results and share of advertising spend for its 
members, which comprise 90 per cent of the industry. It notes that the 2014 figures have been adjusted to 
reflect changes in OMA membership, as well as a minor adjustment due to over-reporting. 
12 MOVE Website, MOVE 2016 Data Update, viewed 2 May 2017, 
http://moveoutdoor.com.au/know/2016-data-update.  


Page 10 of 27 
Table 1: OOH providers’ estimated market shares by revenue 
OOH provider 
Estimated market share range (by 
revenue) 
APO 
20-30% 
OML 
30-35% 
Combined APO-OML 
50-65% 
Adshel 
10-15% 
JCDecaux 
5-10% 
QMS 
5-10% 
Other 
5-10% 
Figure 3: OOH supply chain 
 
Advertisers  
39. 
Advertisers are businesses that buy advertising services to advertise their 
products/services; they are the ultimate customers of OOH providers. 
Purchasers of OOH advertising vary widely in terms of size and experience. The 
largest buyers include Federal and State Governments and large national and 
international corporations (for example, Telstra, Vodafone, ANZ, Apple and 
Coca-Cola). In Australia, most advertising services are purchased through media 
agencies – see below.  


Page 11 of 27 
Media agencies  
40. 
Media or advertising agencies are contracted by advertisers to research, plan 
and buy advertising space for advertising campaigns. They prepare a strategy 
for allocating an advertising campaign budget to various media channels, which 
is subsequently approved by their advertiser client. The ACCC understands that 
around 80 per cent of OOH advertising spend in Australia is channelled through 
the top five media agency groups – Dentsu Aegis, GroupM, Omnicom Media 
Group, Publicis Media and Universal McCann. 
41. 
As a result, for OOH providers, the key channel to advertisers is through media 
agencies. For example, OML’s Prospectus states that in FY2013 approximately 
87% of OML’s media revenue was generated through media agencies.13  
Site owners  
42. 
Site owners are the landlords that own sites used for OOH advertising. They 
enter into contracts (generally leases or licences) with OOH providers which 
grant OOH providers the right to use the sites in return for payment of rents to 
the site owners (either fixed rents, variable rents expressed as a percentage of 
advertising sales or a combination of both).  
43. 
These rights are obtained either through bilateral negotiations (for smaller, single 
property site owners) or through formal tender processes (for site owners with 
multiple sites – such as shopping centre operators, rail networks and local 
authorities).  
44. 
In general, site owners and advertisers/media agencies do not deal with each 
other directly, due mainly to the fact that advertisers and media agencies value a 
comprehensive, convenient national OOH provider, and dealing directly with 
individual site owners would greatly increase transaction costs. A notable 
exception is the Scentre Group (Westfield), which operates its own in-house 
retail advertising services business, BrandSpace (the ability of site owners to by-
pass OOH providers is explored further below from paragraphs 91 to 100).  
Evolution of digital technologies in OOH advertising  
45. 
OOH advertising can generally be classified as either ‘static’ (or ‘classic’) – 
essentially a printed poster – or digital – essentially a screen with changing 
images. The digitisation of OOH advertising has been a key contributor to 
revenue growth in the industry over the past five years; digital billboards have 
been the fastest growing area in OOH during this period. Digital technologies 
present numerous industry revenue opportunities, including: area 
 
increased yield: greater yield from highly-trafficked sites with digital 
technology allowing for multiple advertisers per minute, time-of-day 
advertising and contextual advertising opportunities 
 
increased addressable market: increased ability to access time-sensitive 
advertising spend such as ‘sale’ or ‘limited time’ offers (for example, 
retailers holding short-term sales promotions) 
                                                 
 
13 OML Prospectus, page 60. 


Page 12 of 27 
 
increased engagement and interactivity: digital advertising networks in the 
right environments provide advertisers with additional engagement 
opportunities, including interactive touch screens and mobile integration, 
allowing advertisers to customise their messages to a specific location, 
time of day, or special event.  
Regulation of OOH advertising  
46. 
Regulation of OOH advertising is focused principally on sites and development 
approvals, including regulations concerning advertising structures. 
Development approval for new sites - roadside locations 
47. 
The approval process for a new outdoor advertising site in roadside locations is 
regulated by various levels and agencies of government, with location, aesthetic 
and environmental impact, road safety, heritage and content requirements being 
major variables during the planning of and approval for a new site. 
48. 
It can take many years to secure approvals; however, once approved, permits 
are typically issued in most states on a perpetual basis and further protected by 
‘Existing Use Rights’ legislation.14 However, some local government areas limit 
approvals before re-application to a maximum of 15 years. The site-approval 
process and the duration of permits act somewhat to entrench the incumbent site 
operator. 
49. 
OOH providers typically hold multi-year contracts with local councils, state and 
federal governments and transit operators for the exclusive right to display 
advertising on their sites. 
Development approval for new sites - other locations 
50. 
Site placement in internal environments such as airports, shopping centres, 
supermarkets, and place-based categories (for example, cafés, universities, 
pubs, indoor social and sports centres) is by agreement with the property 
owners, and generally no council permits are required. 
Market definition 
Relevant markets 
51. 
Consistent with previous ACCC reviews,15 the ACCC’s preliminary view is that 
the relevant markets for assessing the potential effects on competition of the 
proposed merger are national markets for: 
                                                 
 
14 ‘Existing Use Rights’ legislation refers to legislation that preserves the use of property rights where a 
certain use of property was initially lawful but becomes prohibited under a new planning regime. If the 
current use has previously been legally permitted, it may continue. See, for example, Fact Sheet on 
Existing User Rights, NSW Government, viewed 2 May 2017, 
http://www.armidale.nsw.gov.au/sites/armidale/files/public/images/documents/armidale/Planning%20an
d%20Dev%20docs/Fact%20Sheets/fact%20sheet%20-%20existing%20use%20rights.pdf. 
15 ACCC, 2012 Review of Outdoor Media Operations Pty Ltd - proposed acquisition of EYE Corp Pty 
Ltd. See further http://registers.accc.gov.au/content/index.phtml/itemId/1079598/fromItemId/751043. 


Page 13 of 27 
a. the supply of OOH advertising services 
b. the leasing of OOH advertising sites from landlords.  
Product market 
52. 
The ACCC’s starting point for delineating the relevant markets in which to 
assess the competitive effects of the proposed merger involves identifying the 
products actually or potentially supplied by the parties. The ACCC then 
considers what other products constitute sufficiently close substitutes to provide 
a significant source of constraint on the merged firm.  
The supply of OOH advertising services 
53. 
The ACCC has considered whether the relevant product market in which to 
assess the competitive impact of the proposed merger is a broad advertising 
market, or a market for OOH advertising.  
54. 
In determining the relevant product market, the ACCC has considered the extent 
to which OOH advertising is substitutable for advertising services in other 
channels.  
55. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that other advertising services, such as 
television and online, are not sufficiently close substitutes for OOH advertising 
services to exert strong constraints on OOH providers. 
56. 
Market inquiries and other information indicate that advertisers generally acquire 
advertising solutions across different advertising media. The ACCC understands 
that advertisers often use different advertising media, including OOH, side-by-
side in an advertising campaign. Advertisers who require OOH advertising 
typically also use other advertising media to varying degrees depending on the 
focus of the advertising campaign they are running, the product or service and 
the intended audience.  
57. 
The ACCC understands that OOH advertising offers special characteristics that 
are not easily replicated by advertising in other media channels. The special 
characteristics of OOH advertising include:16 
 
its ‘high impact’ nature: OOH achieves good ‘cut-through’ because it tends 
to stand by itself and not be cluttered or grouped together with other 
advertisements, as is the case with other advertising media 
 
greater control over placement of advertising, which is important for 
branding. The ACCC notes that the importance of this to advertisers has 
been highlighted recently by the boycott by a number of significant global 
and Australian advertisers of Google online digital advertising due to 
concerns about the lack of control over the placement of advertisements17 
                                                 
 
16 See, for example, OMA, Strengths of Out-Of-Home (OOH), viewed 2 May 2017, 
http://www.oma.org.au/using-ooh/strengths-of-ooh. 
17 In that regard, a spokesperson for Nestlé is reported as stating that “Globally, Nestlé has decided to 
pause our media buying with Google/YouTube and Google Display Network pending reassurances from 
them on actions to address the problem of brand advertising appearing on inappropriate websites”. See, 


Page 14 of 27 
 
OOH advertising is particularly suitable for highly visual, limited information 
advertising, able both to broadcast widely and capture a large audience 
 
OOH advertising can be locally targeted (for example, a billboard 
advertising a fast-food outlet 2 km ahead) 
 
OOH advertising has dominant visibility for its audience in their immediate 
location and is involuntary, in the sense that it is ‘inescapable’ and cannot 
be ‘switched off’, unlike many alternative advertising channels, such as 
broadcast media (for example, television) 
 
advertisers are able to use OOH advertising to tailor their campaigns more 
precisely, either to achieve greater scale (in terms of total audience reach) 
or to adopt a more selective approach to target customers in specific 
regions and/or demographics. 
58. 
The OMA has recently commissioned research which suggests that when people 
are out of home they are significantly more alert compared with screen time at 
home. Its research states that “alertness is known to lead to ad recall and 
action”.18 
59. 
The merger parties have themselves publicly emphasised the special 
characteristics of OOH advertising. 
60. 
For example, the APO Prospectus states that “management believes that there 
are a number of characteristics that make outdoor advertising a unique medium 
that delivers benefits to advertisers”, going on to list a number of such benefits, 
including “targeted advertising” and “captive audience and repeat exposure”. It 
also refers to OOH advertising as being “complementary to other advertising 
mediums”.19 
61. 
Similarly, the OML Prospectus summarises the differentiating characteristics of 
OOH as an advertising medium as follows: “Out Of Home companies with broad 
and diverse advertising platforms, such as oOh!media, have the differentiated 
ability to both broadcast widely and capture a large audience through the use of 
certain media (e.g. roadside billboards), and be highly focused and address a 
targeted audience due to its location-based nature (e.g. outside supermarkets) 
which facilitates one-on-one engagement with the consumer.”20  
                                                                                                                                              
 
for example, articles in the Australian Financial Review on 26 March 2017, “Holden and Kia pull ads 
from YouTube as Google boycott widens” (http://www.afr.com/business/media-and-
marketing/advertising/holden-and-kia-pull-ads-from-youtube-as-google-boycott-widens-20170326-
gv6lad); 27 March 2017, “Vodafone and Nestle pull Australian Google advertisements” 
(http://www.afr.com/business/media-and-marketing/advertising/vodafone-and-nestle-pull-australian-
google-advertisements-20170327-gv77uj); 28 March 2017, “Telstra pulls YouTube advertising as 
Australian boycott picks up” (http://www.afr.com/business/media-and-marketing/advertising/telstra-
pulls-youtube-advertising-as-australian-boycott-picks-up-20170328-gv893a).   
18 OMA and Hoop, Get the Primal Advantage with Out Of Home, page 9, viewed 2 May 2017, 
http://www.theprimaladvantage.com.au/OOH%20-%20The%20Primal%20Advantage.pdf. See also: 
http://www.theprimaladvantage.com.au/. 
19 APO Prospectus, page 31. 
20 OML Prospectus, page 30.  


Page 15 of 27 
62. 
The year-on-year revenue growth in OOH advertising described above (at 
paragraph 36) appears to suggest that it is of increasing importance to 
advertisers. In announcing its interim results for the six months to June 2016, 
APO noted that “the Australian Outdoor media market continued to exhibit 
superior growth and was up 18% on the prior corresponding period.”21 APO and 
OML have both reported substantial revenue growth of 10 per cent and 20.1 per 
cent respectively for the 2016 calendar year.22 
63. 
The growth of OOH advertising as a percentage of total advertising spend also 
appears to suggest its increasing importance to advertisers. The OMA’s figures 
show that as a percentage of total advertising spend OOH has increased 
steadily from 4.6 per cent in 2011 to 5.3 per cent in 2015, while, with the 
exception of online advertising, advertising spend on most other advertising 
media has declined.23 This can be seen in Table 2 below. The growth in online 
advertising has come at the expense of newspaper, magazine and television 
advertising, and has not led to falls in OOH advertising.  
Table 2: Share of advertising spend 
Share of advertising spend by media results (%) 
 
2011 
2012 
2013 
2014* 
2015 
OOH 
4.6 
4.6 
4.8 
5.1 
5.3 
Cinema 
0.7 
0.8 
0.9 
0.8 
0.9 
Newspaper 
22.1 
18.9 
16.6 
15.0 
12.7 
Magazine 
5.6 
4.4 
3.5 
3.0 
2.4 
TV 
33.1 
31.8 
30.6 
29.3 
26.7 
Pay TV 
3.7 
4.0 
4.4 
4.1 
4.0 
Radio 
9.4 
9.3 
9.0 
9.0 
8.7 
Online 
19.0 
24.5 
28.4 
32.9 
38.3 
Other Print** 
1.8 
1.7 
1.8 
0.8 
1.0 
Source: OMA24 and CEASA (excluding classified and directories) 
*2014 figures have been adjusted to reflect changes in online media reporting methodology 
**Other print includes business and rural publications 
                                                 
 
21 APO Interim Results Announcement, Year to 30 June 2016, page 2, 
http://investors.apnoutdoorcorporate.com/FormBuilder/_Resource/_module/H8ozxbRXd0mvH1pjvB8PE
Q/file/APO-2016-HY-results.pdf. 
22 APO Annual Report 2016, page 6, http://investors.apnoutdoorcorporate.com/Investor-
Centre/?page=Annual-Reports; OML Annual Report 2016, page 5, 
http://investors.oohmedia.com.au/FormBuilder/_Resource/_module/E4ATEEIQ0kSnc4yT1XnXrg/docs/r
eports/annual/oOh!-Annual-Report-2016.pdf. 
23 Although the ACCC notes that recent Standard Media Index data suggests that media agency spend on 
digital in Australia slipped 1.7 per cent in February 2017 compared with the same time in 2016 – see 
Australian Financial Review article of 7 April 2017, “How Google and Facebook's trillion-dollar 
duopoly strangles the internet”,  http://www.afr.com/business/media-and-marketing/advertising/how-
google-and-facebooks-trillion-dollar-duopoly-strangles-the-internet-20170328-gv7zxi. 
24 OMA, Industry Performance, viewed 2 May 2017, http://oma.org.au/facts-and-figures/industry-
performance. 


Page 16 of 27 
64. 
OML has put this growth down to OOH signage “typically being ‘unmissable’ to 
passers-by”, in contrast to “the audience fragmentation believed to be impacting 
FTA [free-to-air] TV, radio and other forms of media which can be turned off, 
skipped, or fast-forwarded by consumers as new alternative technologies 
emerge”.25  
65. 
In the light of the above, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that OOH has special 
characteristics that distinguish it from other advertising media such that 
advertisers and media agencies will continue to require OOH advertising even if 
OOH providers were to raise prices by five to 10 per cent. Therefore, the 
ACCC’s preliminary view is that the supply of OOH advertising services forms a 
separate relevant product market for the purposes of the ACCC’s assessment of 
the proposed merger. 
66. 
The ACCC notes that distinct concerns have been raised in relation to particular 
OOH categories. The ACCC acknowledges that OOH categories are 
differentiated and that many advertising campaigns use a variety of OOH 
categories depending on the particular focus of the campaign, the product or 
service and the intended audience. While different OOH categories may be 
substitutes for many advertising campaigns, the ACCC understands that there 
are circumstances where this is not the case and that the particular 
characteristics of a particular OOH category are such that other OOH categories 
are not close substitutes for it.  
67. 
Given the concerns set out below in relation to the broader market for the supply 
of OOH advertising services, the ACCC is of the preliminary view that it is 
unnecessary to consider whether there may be separate relevant markets for 
one or more individual categories of OOH advertising. However, the ACCC is 
continuing to explore this issue. 
The leasing of OOH advertising sites from landlords 
68. 
The ACCC also considers that there is a relevant market for the leasing of OOH 
advertising sites from landlords. From the perspective of a landlord, when it is 
leasing/licensing its advertising site(s), it is restricted to choosing between OOH 
providers (such as OML and APO). OOH providers compete for sites by offering 
rents. The ACCC considers that it is appropriate to consider this as a separate 
relevant market. 
Geographic market 
69. 
The ACCC is of the preliminary view that the appropriate geographic market in 
which to consider the competitive effects of the proposed merger is likely to be a 
national market. 
70. 
The ACCC understands that the major media agencies (which, as stated above, 
account for approximately 80 per cent of OOH advertising spend in Australia) 
generally seek a national package of OOH advertising services.  
                                                 
 
25 OML Prospectus, page 12. The OML Prospectus also describes OOH, at page 30, as “the fastest 
growing traditional media in the advertising industry, with expenditure increasing at a [compound 
annual growth rate] of 8.0% over the four years between 2009 and 2013. This is more than triple the 
rate of certain traditional media sectors, such as FTA TV and radio, which grew at a [compound annual 
growth rate] of 2.6% and 2.3%, respectively.” 


Page 17 of 27 
71. 
The ACCC also understands that OOH advertising campaigns are generally run 
on a national basis. The main advertisers, which tend to be large national or 
multinational corporations with a national presence, seek to reach consumers 
with a nation-wide campaign message. 
72. 
Although OOH providers can be state-based, many use on-seller or resale 
arrangements with larger OOH providers (primarily APO and OML) in order to 
have national representation and attract advertising spend from major 
national/international OOH advertisers or media agencies.  
73. 
The ACCC acknowledges that advertisers often need to reach consumers in a 
particular city or part of a city, metropolitan area or part of a metropolitan area, or 
local or regional area, and also seek to reach certain demographic categories of 
consumers within a city or metropolitan area. Similarly, the precise geographic 
location of a particular billboard can also be important to advertisers. For 
example, in the case of directional advertising (where an advertiser would use a 
roadside billboard to direct customers to its store), advertisers would need a 
specific billboard in close proximity to its store.  
74. 
In that light, the ACCC is still considering whether there may also be narrower 
local and/or regional markets for the supply of OOH advertising services, in 
addition to a national market. 
75. 
Similar reasoning applies in relation to the market for leasing OOH sites from 
landlords. OOH providers seek to establish a national inventory of sites and 
competition for sites is not limited to OOH providers located in the specific 
location of those sites. Therefore, the ACCC is also of the preliminary view that 
this market is likely to be national in scope.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary views as to 
the definition of the relevant markets. In particular, market participants may wish to 
comment on: 
 
The extent to which advertisers/media agencies would viably switch or threaten to 
switch to advertising services in other media channels in the event of a five to 10 
per cent price rise in the cost of OOH advertising services, and, if so, which 
advertising services. 
 
The extent to which there may be separate, narrower markets for individual 
categories of OOH advertising, or narrower local and/or regional markets for the 
supply of OOH advertising services, in addition to a national market. 
 
Whether changes in relative prices have been a factor in the growth of OOH 
advertising as a proportion of total advertising spending. For example, has the 
price of OOH advertising changed relative to other advertising media? If so, has 
this had any effect on the use of OOH or other advertising media? Is there any 
data available on this issue? 


Page 18 of 27 
Issue of concern: reduction in competition in the supply of 
OOH advertising services 
76. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed merger is likely to result in a 
substantial lessening of competition in the supply of OOH advertising services in 
Australia. 
77. 
The proposed merger would result in the horizontal aggregation of the two 
largest OOH providers and create a market leader with over 50 per cent of OOH 
advertising in Australia. The merged firm would be the only OOH provider in 
Australia with a presence in all OOH categories. The ACCC is concerned that 
the significant degree of concentration that would result from the proposed 
merger, and the removal of the competition that currently exists between APO 
and OML as each other’s closest competitors, may lead to an increase in prices 
or a reduction in service levels/quality and possibly less innovation, harming 
advertisers.  
Market concentration, removal of competitive tension and creation of a ‘one-
stop shop’ 
78. 
The supply of OOH advertising services in Australia is characterised by a small 
number of large providers and a number of much smaller providers. The APO 
Prospectus states that the four largest providers by revenue – APO, OML, 
JCDecaux and Adshel – accounted for approximately 80 per cent of the 
market.26 The ACCC understands that the merger parties are the two main 
providers of OOH advertising services in Australia, each with a substantial 
market share.  
79. 
The proposed merger would further increase market concentration. Based on 
data published by the OMA27 and data provided by market participants, a 
combined APO-OML would have a share of between 50 and 65 per cent of OOH 
advertising in Australia. In addition, that data also suggests that the merged firm 
would have a share of greater than 50 per cent in three of the four main 
categories of OOH advertising identified above at paragraph 33 (the exception 
being ‘roadside – other’, a category in which neither merger party has significant 
operations). Market feedback suggests the merged firm would have: between 70 
and 85 per cent of large-format billboard advertising services, with more than 90 
per cent of large-format billboards in metropolitan Sydney and Melbourne and 
more than 90 per cent coverage of all major arterial roads in Australian capital 
cities; and a near-monopoly position in the supply of OOH advertising services to 
airports in Australia, with more than 90 per cent of that category.28  
80. 
The next largest competitors would have a significantly smaller share of OOH 
advertising services than a combined APO-OML, and generally focus only on 
specific OOH categories. The third and fourth largest competitors are Adshel, 
with an estimated 10 to 15 per cent share of OOH advertising services, and 
JCDecaux, with an estimated five to 10 per cent share. The ACCC understands 
                                                 
 
26 APO Prospectus, pages 7 and 27.  
27 The ACCC notes, as stated in footnote 11 above, that the OMA’s reporting for the OOH industry 
comprises 90 per cent of the industry.  
28 The ACCC understands that in the last six years, the merger parties have been the only providers of 
OOH advertising services to win or retain tenders by the major airports in Australia. 


Page 19 of 27 
that both have a focus on the ‘roadside - other’ category (see categorisation at 
paragraph 33 above), and are primarily active in ‘street furniture’, such as 
advertising on bus shelters. The rest of the market is very fragmented, with 
participants holding very small market shares.  
81. 
The OML Prospectus notes that: “APN Outdoor is the major competitor to 
oOh!media in the Roadside (Billboards) and Airports segments; and JCDecaux 
and Adshel primarily operate within the Roadside (Others) and Transit 
segments, where oOh!media has a minimal presence.”29 
82. 
The APO Prospectus notes that “Of the four major outdoor advertising operators 
in Australia, JCDecaux and Adshel are predominantly focused on street 
furniture, a category in which APN Outdoor does not currently operate. Smaller 
operators typically focus on niche formats, in single geographies or regional 
markets, or do not have a multi-format offering.”30  
83. 
The ACCC understands that advertisers/media agencies have benefited from 
competition between APO and OML. Currently, advertisers and media agencies 
are able to play one merger party off against the other when seeking OOH 
advertising services. Market participants have expressed concerns that this 
competitive tension would be lost as a result of the proposed merger and that the 
merged firm would have the ability to increase prices, reduce service levels 
and/or possibly reduce innovation (although the ACCC acknowledges that a 
combined APO-OML would still have incentives to innovate given the additional 
revenue opportunities it creates – see paragraph 45 above). 
84. 
In addition, a combined APO-OML would be the only OOH provider present 
across all OOH categories. This would enable it to make a comprehensive, 
cross-category offering that could not be matched by any other OOH provider. 
Barriers to entry and expansion 
85. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the threat of entry or expansion in the 
supply of OOH advertising services is unlikely to constrain a price increase or a 
decrease in service/quality levels or innovation imposed by a combined APO-
OML. 
86. 
The information before the ACCC indicates that there are significant barriers to 
new entry and to expansion by existing competitors in the supply of OOH 
advertising services. Barriers appear to be higher in relation to some OOH 
categories than others and in certain geographic areas, in particular in the 
Sydney and Melbourne metropolitan areas. For example, market participants 
have cited the example of large-format billboards in and around Sydney’s central 
business district, referring in particular to the stringent development and 
planning-approval processes that apply.31  
                                                 
 
29 OML Prospectus, page 34. 
30 APO Prospectus, page 7. 
31 The ACCC understands that a sufficient number of attractive OOH sites in these Sydney and 
Melbourne locations will always be crucial to any national advertising campaign involving OOH 
advertising, due to population density.  


Page 20 of 27 
87. 
While entry on a small scale may be feasible (there are some examples of 
smaller regional OOH providers with a limited number of sites and generally in a 
single OOH category32), there appear to be substantial barriers to expanding 
beyond a regional base. These include: 
 
Sites are limited and become available irregularly: agreements for 
OOH sites come up for renewal sporadically, not necessarily offering the 
scale required for new entry. In addition, many OOH advertising sites are 
not put out to tender but are privately negotiated when they come up for 
renewal. The ACCC notes in that regard that the OML Prospectus 
observes that: “A large proportion of leases/licences are confidentially 
negotiated between landowners and Out Of Home advertising providers. In 
oOh!media’s experience, many of these are typically not put out to tender 
ahead of renewal. In regional Australia, leases/licences are typically 
individually negotiated and therefore less susceptible to competitive 
tenders.”33  
 
Long term leases/licence agreements with options to renew: OOH 
sites are often subject to long-term lease or licence agreements. Initial 
terms are often between five and 10 years, with options to renew, and in 
some cases even longer. For example, the ACCC understands that APO’s 
contracts with key transit site owners, Yarra Trams and Sydney Trains, 
were entered into for 10 and 15-plus years respectively.34 
The ACCC notes that the APO Prospectus states that APO’s top 10 
contracts were expected to account for approximately 44 per cent of its 
FY2014 revenue, and that these contractual relationships “have been held 
for greater than 10 years.”35 Similarly, the OML Prospectus states that 
“typically, leases/licences are set for an initial term of five to 10 years with 
renewal options for another five or more years.”36 
 
Incumbency advantages in renegotiating agreements: even when 
existing sites become available to the market, the incumbent operator 
typically has a significant advantage in retaining those sites. This is 
because the incumbent operator knows when the agreement is up for 
renewal and is able to negotiate its renewal well in advance. APO has 
stated that “key contractual relationships have been typically held for over 
10 years and renewed several times.”37 
In addition, as regards billboards, the ACCC understands that the vast 
majority of potential billboard sites, in particular in metropolitan areas, are 
already occupied by existing billboard infrastructure, and that in many 
cases the incumbent OOH provider owns the existing billboard 
infrastructure. The ACCC understands that this creates a risk for a new 
OOH provider, as to knock down and replace the existing infrastructure is 
                                                 
 
32 Although the ACCC understands that many smaller OOH providers are represented by larger 
providers in order to attract better advertising opportunities (see footnote 6 above). 
33 OML Prospectus, page 38. 
34 APO Prospectus, page 46. 
35 APO Prospectus, page 8. 
36 OML Prospectus, page 45. 
37 APO Prospectus, page 46. 


Page 21 of 27 
not only costly, but it also often requires fresh planning approval, which can 
be difficult to obtain, even if a billboard has been located there in the past 
(see below). The need to reconstruct the infrastructure would also stop a 
site owner from earning revenue during the reconstruction period, creating 
a further incentive to remain with the incumbent OOH provider. 
 
Lengthy and difficult regulatory approval processes: OOH is regulated 
on several levels (for example, by city, state and road authorities), and thus 
many approvals may be needed (see paragraphs 46 to 49 above).  
a. For example, the ACCC understands that planning laws place 
stringent restrictions on the creation of new billboard sites, and 
applicants must adhere to strict requirements relating to location, 
environmental impact and safety. The ACCC understands that 
obtaining the necessary approvals for the establishment of new 
billboard sites imposes a significant barrier to entry/expansion, 
particularly in metropolitan areas.  
b. Even when planning approval is available, the process of 
negotiation with owners of potential sites and obtaining necessary 
approvals from regulatory authorities is time-consuming and 
costly. In that regard, OML has observed that the “new site 
approval process and ongoing permits act to somewhat entrench 
the incumbent site operator”,38 and that “oOh!media’s sound 
competitive position is premised on the long and complex 
regulatory approval process, scarcity of sites and landlord 
diversity, which make it relatively difficult for new entrants to 
develop substantial national scale in the industry”.39 
 
Previous experience and reputation: the ACCC understands that 
government tenders for OOH advertising services generally stipulate that 
applicants must be able to demonstrate previous experience in the relevant 
OOH advertising category in Australia; and that some require potential 
bidders to demonstrate previous experience in Australia in a specific 
category. This makes it difficult for a smaller competitor (or new entrant) to 
win a government tender as a means of expanding their market share or 
entering the market with minimum efficient scale.   
 
The importance of data insights and metrics: the ACCC understands 
that OOH advertising also benefits from increasingly detailed consumer 
data and analytical capabilities.40 OOH providers with scale and scope, 
such as APO and OML, have sophisticated data on audiences for each 
particular OOH asset, and are therefore able to provide advertising 
customers with highly tailored OOH campaign solutions that are supported 
by empirically measurable audience reach metrics. 
88. 
These barriers to expansion also mean that timely entry on a scale sufficient to 
constrain the merged firm is unlikely. The additional scale and scope that the 
merged firm will attain (larger inventory across a greater number of formats) 
                                                 
 
38 OML Prospectus, page 39. 
39 OML Prospectus, page 45. 
40 OMA, Audience Measurement, viewed 2 May 2017, http://www.oma.org.au/audience-measurement. 


Page 22 of 27 
further raises barriers to entry and expansion by amplifying the barriers 
discussed above (see also below, paragraphs 101 to 106).  
89. 
The merged firm’s greater scale and scope will provide it with competitive 
advantages that smaller current and potential rivals will not readily be able to 
overcome. Although scope and scale may provide some short term benefits, 
particularly for large advertisers and media agencies since they allow an OOH 
provider to offer better coverage in terms of total audience reach for an 
advertising campaign, the ACCC is concerned that these advantages will 
ultimately weaken competitive constraints and protect the merged firm’s 
enhanced market power. 
90. 
In that light, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that it is unlikely that any new entry 
or expansion by existing competitors would be sufficient or timely enough to 
prevent a combined APO-OML from profitably increasing prices.  
Countervailing power: threat of advertiser bypass 
91. 
Countervailing power exists when buyers have special characteristics that 
enable them to credibly threaten to bypass the merged firm, such as by vertically 
integrating into the upstream market, establishing importing operations or 
sponsoring new entry, such that this constrains any attempted increase in 
market power by a supplier.41  
92. 
Countervailing power is more than the ability of one large buyer to negotiate 
favourable terms and price relative to other buyers. A significant proportion of 
customers must be shielded from the effects of market power if countervailing 
power is to prevent a substantial lessening of competition in the relevant 
market(s).  
93. 
The ACCC’s market inquiries in relation to the proposed merger have indicated 
that the threat of bypass is limited: it appears unlikely that a large advertiser or 
media agency would bypass a combined APO-OML and deal directly with site 
owners in response to a price increase or a decrease in the level of 
service/quality in the supply of OOH advertising services.  
94. 
This is principally because ownership of individual OOH sites is highly 
fragmented and individual site owners generally lack the scale of inventory or 
experience needed to satisfy an advertiser’s/media agency’s requirements for an 
advertising campaign, in terms of reach and frequency of audience. As noted 
above, the top five media agencies account for approximately 80 per cent of 
OOH advertising spend and typically run national advertising campaigns. 
95. 
In addition, OOH providers such as OML and APO provide a range of services 
that facilitate access by advertisers/media agencies to OOH advertising sites. 
Advertisers and media agencies are generally time-poor and rely on these 
intermediaries for a range of services, including maintenance and servicing of 
sites, which they could not easily carry out themselves (market participants have 
indicated that the management and development of OOH sites is highly 
specialised).  
                                                 
 
41 See ACCC Merger Guidelines, paras. 7.48-7.51, page 47, 
https://www.accc.gov.au/system/files/Merger%20guidelines.pdf.  


Page 23 of 27 
96. 
In that light, there are significant incentives for advertisers/media agencies to 
deal with an OOH provider that can provide a comprehensive, national, multi-
OOH category response to an OOH advertising brief – a ‘one-stop shop’ for all or 
most of their OOH advertising needs – without having to negotiate directly with 
many individual site owners. Advertisers/media agencies are unlikely to deal 
directly with potentially thousands of site owners (which would increase 
transaction costs).  
97. 
The ACCC understands that there may be some limited exceptions to this. If a 
site owner is very large (in terms of the number of advertisements that can be 
placed), strategically important to advertisers, and has the capability to maintain 
its own infrastructure and negotiate deals directly with advertisers/media 
agencies, then it may have some ability to deal directly with advertisers/media 
agencies. 
98. 
For example, Scentre Group (Westfield), which owns multiple shopping centres 
across Australia, deals directly with advertisers/media agencies through its 
BrandSpace division. Similarly, the ACCC understands that some large airport 
owners/operators may be in a position to deal directly with advertisers/media 
agencies or sponsor new entry. This is essentially because:  
 
large airport owners/operators tend to own all of the advertising sites within 
an airport and often (at least in the case of the larger airports) have in-
house sales and marketing teams which could deal directly with 
advertisers, and  
 
airport owners/operators already have relationships with advertisers 
because many of them are also tenants in the airport.  
99. 
However, the ACCC considers that only a very limited number of site owners 
have the scale, resources, experience or inclination to deal directly with 
advertisers/media agencies. 
100. The ACCC does not consider that advertisers or media agencies are likely to 
vertically integrate and begin supplying OOH advertising services themselves or 
to sponsor new entry in response to an increase in prices/decrease in 
quality/service levels by a combined APO-OML. In particular, media agencies 
lack any strong incentive to do so, given that advertising costs are generally 
passed onto their customers.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants as to whether the 
proposed merger would remove a key source of competition in the supply of 
OOH advertising services in Australia. Market participants may wish to comment 
in particular on the following: 
 
The extent to which APO and OML have competed in the past and 
compete currently.  
 
The extent to which a combined APO-OML would be constrained by other 
providers of OOH advertising services.  
 
The extent to which existing providers of OOH advertising services could 
expand or new entrants could enter OOH advertising services in response 
to an attempt by the merged firm to increase prices or decrease 
quality/service levels.  


Page 24 of 27 
 
The minimum efficient scale and scope a new entrant would require in 
order to compete with a combined APO-OML in the supply of OOH 
advertising services. 
 
The extent to which the sporadic nature of tenders/contract renewals for 
OOH advertising affects a new entrant’s ability to reach efficient scale and 
scope in a timely manner.   
 
Any examples of recent attempts at entry or expansion and whether any 
such attempts have been successful or not, and why.  
 
Whether other OOH providers have grown organically or via acquisition of 
smaller players, and the extent to which such growth could be repeated in 
the future. 
 
How the proposed merger would change the potential for entry and/or 
expansion. 
 
The extent to which advertisers/media agencies could deal directly with 
site owners or otherwise exercise countervailing power. 
Issue of concern: increase in barriers to entry and 
expansion  
101. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the scale and scope of a combined APO-
OML would enable it to offer OOH advertising services across multiple 
categories in ways that would make it harder for single-category OOH providers 
to enter and expand. This is likely to increase barriers to entry/expansion and 
result in a substantial lessening of competition. 
102. While currently the merger parties are not individually present in all OOH 
categories, as described above a combined APO-OML would be the only OOH 
provider with a presence in each of the OOH advertising categories; in addition, 
it would have a substantial share in three of the four main OOH categories. 
103. The merged firm would be able to make a comprehensive, cross-category 
bundled offering that could not be matched by any other OOH provider. 
104. The ACCC acknowledges that bundling is a common practice and does not 
necessarily raise competition concerns. Furthermore, the ACCC understands 
that the merger parties already use a bundled sales approach across the 
categories in which they are present and across locations. These bundles often 
include significant discounts compared with the cost of purchasing categories 
separately.  
105. However, the ACCC is concerned that the proposed merger would enable the 
merged firm to offer bundles of OOH advertising services across OOH 
categories in ways that smaller, single-category OOH providers (actual and 
potential) could not easily replicate. The merged firm may be able to leverage its 
position in categories where it is dominant to limit competition from competitors 
in other categories. This is a particular concern given that there appear to be 
economies of scale and scope for OOH providers.  


Page 25 of 27 
106. As a result, existing OOH competitors may be substantially hindered in their 
ability to compete with a combined APO-OML, and new entrants deterred or 
prevented from entering.  
The ACCC welcomes comments in relation to a combined APO-OML’s ability and 
incentive to supply a bundle of OOH advertising services in ways that may raise 
barriers to entry/expansion or otherwise lessen competition. In particular, market 
participants may wish to comment on: 
 
How important it is for advertisers/media agencies to be able to access a 
comprehensive, national portfolio of OOH advertising services (‘one-stop shop’). 
 
Whether there is a particular bundle or combination of OOH advertising services 
that is particularly attractive to a large number of media agencies/advertisers. 
 
How the combined APO-OML could bundle its OOH services in ways that lessen 
competition and raise barriers to entry and expansion.  
 
The extent to which spare capacity is or could be included in an offer for OOH 
advertising services. 
 
To what extent it is possible for OOH providers who do not currently offer a 
bundle of services to assemble a competing bundle or to compete with bundled 
offerings.  
 
The effect the inability to offer a bundle has on the ability of OOH providers to 
compete in the relevant market. 
Issue of concern: reduction in competition for the leasing 
of OOH advertising sites 
107. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed merger is likely to 
substantially lessen competition for the leasing (or licensing) of OOH advertising 
sites through the removal of the competitive tension that currently exists between 
APO and OML in acquiring sites.  
108. In an effectively competitive market for OOH sites, the threat of losing sites to 
competitors spurs OOH providers to present high quality offers to site owners (in 
terms of price, service and innovation). As set out above, the proposed merger 
will significantly increase concentration in OOH advertising services in Australia. 
109. Some site owners of OOH advertising have expressed concerns that they would 
have very limited viable alternatives to a combined APO-OML. These concerns 
have come from both large public and private site owners (that is, those 
tendering out a group of OOH advertising sites at once) and small private site 
owners (those who are seeking to lease a small number of sites or just a single 
site).  
110. The ACCC is concerned that the proposed merger will give a combined APO-
OML the ability to reduce the remuneration (that is, rent or licence fees) paid to 
site owners, or to impose more onerous conditions in leases/licences.  


Page 26 of 27 
Barriers to entry and expansion 
111. Many of the same barriers to entry and expansion described above in relation to 
the market for the supply of OOH advertising services apply to the market for 
leasing OOH advertising sites. 
112. In particular, market feedback suggests that there are significant barriers to 
competing effectively in tender processes for OOH advertising sites, particularly 
because of the tender requirements often imposed. The ACCC understands, for 
example, that new entrants and smaller competitors lack the resources and 
expertise to meet the applicant criteria in the majority of tenders run by large 
state transit organisations. In addition, the scale and scope of a combined APO-
OML and the attractiveness of advertising opportunities it would be able to offer 
is likely to result in site owners – in particular larger site owners – being more 
likely to lease sites to the merged firm.  
113. In that light, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that it is unlikely that any new entry 
or expansion by existing competitors would be sufficient or timely enough to 
sufficiently constrain a combined APO-OML.  
Countervailing power: threat of site owner bypass 
114. The ability of landlords to bypass OOH providers and sell their advertising space 
directly to advertising/media agencies was explored in paragraphs 91 to 100 
above. As set out in those paragraphs, except for a very limited number of 
landlords, the ACCC is of the preliminary view that most site owners do not have 
the resources, experience or inclination to deal directly with advertisers/media 
agencies. 
The ACCC invites further comments on its preliminary views in relation to possible 
constraints on a combined APO-OML in the acquisition of OOH advertising sites. In 
particular, market participants may wish to comment on:  
 
The feasibility of the owner of one site or a number of sites dealing directly in an 
efficient way with advertisers. 
 
Any examples of site owners (other than BrandSpace) entering or contemplating 
entering the direct supply of OOH advertising services, particularly in the supply 
of large-format billboard sites.   
 
Whether large site owners would consider sponsoring entry or expansion in 
response to a decrease in rents or service levels imposed by a combined APO-
OML. 
ACCC's future steps 
115. As noted above, the ACCC is now seeking submissions from market participants 
on each of the issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other 
issue that may be relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. 
Submissions are to be received by the ACCC no later than 19 May 2017 and 
should be e-mailed to mergers@accc.gov.au. 
116. The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 


Page 27 of 27 
117. The ACCC intends to announce its final view publicly by 6 July 2017. However, 
the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Informal Merger Review 
Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose of 
explaining the ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's public 
announcement to explain its final view.  
