Trade Practices Act 1974
Undertaking to the Australian Competition and
Consumer Commission pursuant to section
87B
By
Johnson & Johnson
4276303v1 
page i


Contents
Part 1: Background 
1
Part 2: Interpretation 
2
Definitions 
2
Construction 
5
Part 3: Commencement of Undertakings 
7
Part 4: Divestiture undertakings 
7
Sale of Divestiture Brands 
7
Competitor facilitation 
7
Undertaking to comply with EC Commitments 
10
Part 5: Divestiture Brand protection 
10
Maintenance of Divestiture Brands 
10
Part 6: Commission approval 
11
Divestment to Approved Purchaser only 
11
Approved Purchaser 
11
Part 7: Sale of Unsold Divestiture Brands 
13
Sale by Approved Agent 
13
Commission approval of Proposed Agent 
13
Appointment of Approved Agent 
14
Approved Agent Indemnity 
15
Provision of assistance to Approved Agent 
15
Part 8: Audit 
15
Independent Auditor to monitor compliance 
15
Functions of Independent Auditor 
16
Implementation of Independent Auditor recommendations 
16
Provision of access and assistance to Independent Auditor 
17
Monitoring Trustee 
17
Part 9: General 
18
Obligation to procure 
18
Obligation to provide the Commission with information 
18
Severability 
19
Jurisdiction and Service of Process 
19
Notices 
19
Acknowledgments 
20
page ii


Schedule 1 - EC Commitments 
22 
Schedule 2 - Lofenoxal Sale 
24
Schedule 3 - Lomotil Sale 
25
Schedule 4 - Vermox Sale 
26
Schedule 5 - Confidential 
27
Schedule 6 - Pfizer Undertaking 
28
page iii


Part 1: Background
1 
J&J is the ultimate parent company of a group of companies whose activities
are divided into three business segments: consumer; pharmaceutical; and
medical devices and diagnostics. This Undertaking is offered by J&J by and on
behalf of the Australian J&J Subsidiaries and J&J Singapore.
2 
Pfizer is a pharmaceutical company whose activities are divided into three
business segments: consumer healthcare; pharmaceuticals; and animal health.
3 On 25 June 2006, J&J and Pfizer entered into a Stock and Asset Purchase
Agreement to effect the sale of the Pfizer Consumer Healthcare Business to
J&J. Included in the assets of that business are the Lomotil and Lofenoxal
brands.
4 
In its Statement of Issues dated 28 November 2006, the Commission
expressed the view that the Proposed Acquisition raises competition concerns
under section 50 of the Act. The Commission's concerns relate to the effect of
the Proposed Acquisition upon competition in the market for medicines for the
treatment of intestinal threadworms, the market for medicines for the treatment
of diarrhoea and the market for nicotine replacement therapy products or
nicotine patches.
5 
The EC has also expressed concerns in relation to the effect of the Proposed
Acquisition upon competition in a number of markets including nicotine
replacement therapy markets in some European Economic Area States.
6 
J&J does not accept that the Proposed Acquisition will, or is likely to, result in a
substantial lessening of competition in any relevant market.
7 
Without admission, J&J has offered this Undertaking to the Commission with
the intention that the Undertaking will address the Commission's competition
concerns in relation to the market for medicines for the treatment of intestinal
threadworms and the market for medicines for the treatment of diarrhoea. This
Undertaking is directed at securing the continued marketing in Australia of the
Vermox, Lomotil and Lofenoxal brands and, if necessary, ensuring that any
purchaser of those brands has access to a supply of the product, on
competitive terms for a period of 2 to 3 years after their sale.


8 
Without admission, J&J has entered into the EC Commitments to address the
EC's concerns regarding nicotine replacement therapy markets. This
Undertaking incorporates the EC Commitments with the intention that these
commitments, together with additional undertakings to the Commission, will
address the Commission's concerns in relation to the market for nicotine
replacement therapy products or nicotine patches in Australia.
9 Two of the Divestiture Brands, Lomotil and Lofenoxal, are medicines sold in
Australia by Pfizer Australia for the treatment of diarrhoea. Pfizer Australia
obtains its supplies of these two products, which are manufactured by NPIL,
through Pfizer inter-company arrangements.
10 
The Commission is concerned to ensure that an Approved Purchaser(s) of the
Lomotil Sale and the Lofenoxal Sale is able to secure ongoing supply of
Lomotil and Lofenoxal-branded products. To address this concern, J&J has
made undertakings set out in paragraphs 26 to 31 (inclusive) of this
Undertaking, and Pfizer has undertaken, in the circumstances and on the terms
set out in the Pfizer Undertaking, to ensure ongoing supply of Lomotil and
Lofenoxal for sale in Australia to an Approved Purchaser.
11 
J&J has proffered this Undertaking to the Commission pursuant to section 87B
of the Act.
Part 2: Interpretation
Definitions
12 
In this document:
Act means the Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth).
ALZA means ALZA Corporation, a subsidiary of J&J, a company incorporated
in Delaware, United States of America.
ALZA Nicotine Patch Business means whichever of the following alternative
businesses as is divested by J&J in accordance with the EC Commitments:
(a) ALZA Global Nicotine Patch Business, being the worldwide assets and
personnel directly and predominantly associated with the manufacture
and supply of ALZA's transdermal nicotine patch; or
page 2


(b) ALZA International Nicotine Patch Business, being the assets and
personnel directly and predominantly associated with the manufacture
and supply of ALZA's transdermal nicotine patch world wide other than
in the U.S.A, Canada and South Korea, but including Australia and
New Zealand.
Approved Agent means a sales agent accepted by the Commission in
accordance with paragraph 48 of this Undertaking.
Approved Purchaser means a Prospective Purchaser approved by the
Commission in accordance with paragraphs 35 to 44 of this Undertaking.
Australian J&J Subsidiaries means Johnson & Johnson Pty Limited (ACN
000 023 709), Johnson & Johnson Pacific Pty Limited (ACN 001 121 446),
Janssen-Cilag Pty Limited (ACN 000 129 975), Johnson & Johnson Medical
Pty Limited (ACN 000 160 403), Johnson & Johnson Research Pty Limited
(ACN 003 328 176), Tasmanian Alkaloids Pty Limited (ACN 009 502 283) and
McNeil Manufacturing Pty Limited (ACN 122 159 915).
Business Day means a day which is not a Saturday, Sunday or bank or public
holiday in Sydney.
Commission means the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission.
Divestiture Brands means the Vermox, Lofenoxal and Lomotil brands.
Divestiture Brand Sales means the Lofenoxal Sale, the Lomotil Sale and the
Vermox Sale.
Divestiture Trustee means the Trustee appointed under clause 20 of the EC
Commitments.
EC means the European Commission Directorate-General for Competition.
EC Commitments means the binding commitments entered into by J&J with
the EC to resolve the EC's concerns regarding nicotine replacement therapy
markets, a copy of which is at Schedule 1 to this Undertaking.
EC Purchaser Proposal means the fully documented and reasoned proposal
that J&J is required to provide to the EC pursuant to paragraph 19 of the EC
Commitments in relation to the proposed sale of the ALZA Nicotine Patch
Business.
page 3


GSK means GlaxoSmithKline plc, a company incorporated in the United
Kingdom.
Independent Auditor means KPMG or a successor who has been approved in
writing or nominated by the Commission in accordance with paragraphs 57 or
59 of this Undertaking.
Initial Sale Period means the period of time set out in Schedule 5.
J&J means Johnson & Johnson, a company incorporated in New Jersey,
United States of America.
J&J Pfizer Indemnity means the indemnity Pfizer has required from J&J,
pursuant to Part 4 of the Pfizer Undertaking.
J&J Singapore means Johnson & Johnson Singapore Pte Ltd, a company
incorporated in Singapore.
Lofenoxal Sale means the transfer of the items listed in Schedule 2 to an
Approved Purchaser, it being acknowledged that nothing in this Undertaking is
intended to affect the intellectual property rights of J&J and its related entities
in the intellectual property relating to the Lofenoxal brand outside of Australia.
Lomotil Sale means the transfer of the items listed in Schedule 3 to an
Approved Purchaser, it being acknowledged that nothing in this Undertaking is
intended to affect the intellectual property rights of J&J and its related entities
in the intellectual property relating to the Lomotil brand outside of Australia.
Monitoring Trustee means the Trustee appointed pursuant to the EC
Commitments to monitor J&J's compliance with the conditions and obligations
contained in the EC Commitments.
NPIL means NPIL Pharmaceuticals (UK) Limited.
NPIL Agreement means the provisions of the agreement between Pfizer
Manufacturing Services (a company incorporated in Ireland) and NPIL
pursuant to which NPIL manufactures products including Lomotil and
Lofenoxal.
Pfizer means Pfizer, Inc, a company incorporated in Delaware, United States
of America.
Pfizer Australia means Pfizer Australia Pty Limited (ACN 008 422 348).
page 4


Pfizer Consumer Healthcare Business means the worldwide business of
developing, testing, manufacturing, distributing and selling non-prescription
healthcare, personal care, cosmetic and related products, as defined in the
Stock and Asset Purchase Agreement dated 25 June 2006 between J&J and
Pfizer.
Pfizer Undertaking means the Undertaking given to the Commission by Pfizer
Inc pursuant to section 87B of the Act, a copy of which is at Schedule 6 to this
Undertaking.
Proposed Acquisition means the proposed acquisition by J&J of the Pfizer
Consumer Healthcare Business from Pfizer.
Proposed Agent means a sales agent identified by J&J in accordance with
subparagraph 47 of this Undertaking.
Proposed Vermox Manufacturing Facility means the manufacturing facility
operated by Janssen-Cilag SPA in Latina, Italy, in relation to which J&J has
sought approval from the Therapeutic Goods Administration to manufacture
and supply Vermox-branded product.
Prospective Purchaser means a prospective purchaser of any of the
Divestiture Brands or the ALZA Nicotine Patch Business as the case may be.
Related Body Corporate has the meaning given to it by the Act.
Statement of Issues means the Statement of Issues issued by the
Commission on 28 November 2006.
Undertaking is a reference to all of the provisions of this document, including
its Schedules.
Unsold Divestiture Brand means a Divestiture Brand in respect of which J&J
has not complied with paragraph 21 of this Undertaking.
Vermox Sale means the transfer of the items listed in Schedule 4 to an
Approved Purchaser, it being acknowledged that nothing in this Undertaking is
intended to affect the intellectual property rights of J&J and its related entities
in the intellectual property relating to the Vermox brand outside of Australia.
Construction
13 
In the interpretation of a clause of this Undertaking, a construction that would
promote the purpose or object underlying the Undertaking (whether that
page 5


purpose or object is expressly stated in the Undertaking or not) shall be
preferred to a construction that would not promote that purpose or object.
14 
In the interpretation of this Undertaking, material which is relevant to the
competition issues raised by the Proposed Acquisition and which does not form
part of this Undertaking, including the Commission's Statement of Issues, may
be considered to:
(a)
confirm the meaning of a clause is the ordinary meaning conveyed by
the text of the clause taking into account its context in the Undertaking
and the competition concerns intended to be addressed by the
Undertaking and the clause in question; or
(b)
determine the meaning of the clause when the ordinary meaning
conveyed by the text of the clause taking into account its context in the
Undertaking and the purpose or object underlying the Undertaking
leads to a result that does not promote the purpose or object underlying
the Undertaking.
15 
In determining whether consideration should be given to any material in
accordance with clause 14 or in considering any weight to be given to any such
material, regard shall be had, in addition to any other relevant matters, to the:
(a)
effect that reliance on the ordinary meaning conveyed by the text of the
clause would have (taking into account its context in the Undertaking
and whether that meaning promotes the purpose or object of the
Undertaking); and
(b)
the need to ensure that the Undertaking promotes competition.
16 
In performing its obligations under this Undertaking, J&J will do everything
reasonably within its power to ensure that its performance of those obligations
is done in a manner which is consistent with promoting the purpose and object
of the Undertaking.
17 
Unless expressed to the contrary, in this document:
(a)
words in the singular include the plural and vice versa;
(b)
if a word or phrase is defined its other grammatical forms have
corresponding meanings; and
(c)
"includes" means includes without limitation.
page 6


18 
Unless expressed to the contrary, in this document a reference to:
(a)
a person includes a partnership, joint venture, unincorporated
association, corporation and a government or statutory body or
authority;
(b)
a person includes the person's legal personal representatives,
successors, assigns and persons substituted by novation;
(c)
any legislation includes subordinate legislation under it and includes that
legislation and subordinate legislation as modified or replaced; and
(d)
an obligation includes a warranty or representation and a reference to a
failure to comply with an obligation includes a breach of warranty or
representation.
19 
Headings do not affect the interpretation of this document.
Part 3: Commencement of Undertakings
20 
This Undertaking comes into effect when:
(a)
the Undertaking is executed by J&J; and
(b)
the Undertaking is executed and accepted by the Commission.
Part 4: Divestiture undertakings
Sale of Divestiture Brands
21 
Subject to the provisions of Parts 6 and 7 of this Undertaking, J&J or a wholly
owned subsidiary will complete the Divestiture Brand Sales within the Initial
Sale Period.
Competitor facilitation
22 
J&J will, at the request of the Approved Purchaser for the Vermox Sale, use its
best endeavours to procure that the Approved Purchaser for the Vermox Sale
secures a competitive source of supply of Vermox-branded products on
reasonable commercial terms. Best endeavours include:
(a) unless requested otherwise by the Approved Purchaser, pursuing
diligently and in the shortest time possible all necessary approvals from
page 7


the Therapeutic Goods Administration for the Proposed Vermox
Manufacturing Facility;
(b) supplying the Approved Purchaser (within 3 months of obtaining the
approvals in paragraph 22(a)) with the quantity of Vermox-branded
product requested by the Approved Purchaser; and
(c) assisting the Approved Purchaser for the Vermox Sale to gain any
approvals, authorisations and licences necessary for it to obtain supply
of Vermox-branded products for retail sale within Australia (regardless
of whether the Approved Purchaser for the Vermox sale elects to
manufacture, import and/or acquire from third parties Vermox-branded
products).
23 
In relation to paragraph 22(b), the supply by J&J (or one or more of its Related
Bodies Corporate) to the Approved Purchaser must cease 2 years from the
date on which the Vermox Sale is completed.
24 
Notwithstanding paragraph 23, J&J will continue to supply Vermox-branded
product to the Approved Purchaser on terms referred to in paragraph 22(b) for
a further 12 months after the expiry of the two year period if:
(d) the Approved Purchaser requests it; and
(e) the reason for the Approved Purchaser's request is that it is unable to
commence retailing Vermox-branded product sourced from an
alternative supplier as a result of delay in obtaining the necessary
approvals from the Therapeutic Goods Administration which delay is not
caused by any act or omission of the Approved Purchaser.
25 
J&J will, at the request of the Approved Purchaser for the Vermox Sale,
provide reasonable assistance to the Approved Purchaser in transferring J&J's
sponsorship of the Vermox brand on the Australian Register of Therapeutic
Goods to the Approved Purchaser for the Vermox Sale.
26 
Subject to paragraph 27 below, J&J will, within 5 Business Days of a request in
writing from the Approved Purchaser(s) of the Lomotil Sale and the Lofenoxal
Sale to do so:
(a)
request Pfizer to provide supply of Lomotil and Lofenoxal-branded
products to the Approved Purchaser(s) of the Lomotil Sale and the
Lofenoxal Sale upon the terms set out in the Pfizer Undertaking;
(b)
offer Pfizer the J&J Pfizer Indemnity; and
page 8


(c) 
do all things within its control necessary to ensure Pfizer is able to
comply with the Pfizer Undertaking including, but not limited to,
ensuring access rights to intellectual property that are required for
Pfizer to comply with its obligations under the Pfizer Undertaking.
27 
Notwithstanding any request made by the Approved Purchaser in accordance
with paragraph 26 above, J&J is only required to make a request under
paragraph 26 in the event that none of the following occur:
(a)
that part of the NPIL Agreement relating to the Lomotil and Lofenoxal
brands is assigned to J&J;
(b)
that part of the NPIL Agreement relating to the Lomotil and Lofenoxal
brands is assigned to the Approved Purchaser(s) of the Lomotil Sale
and Lofenoxal Sale;
(c)
NPIL and J&J enter into new arrangements for the supply of Lomotil
and/or Lofenoxal-branded products;
(d)
NIPL and the Approved Purchaser(s) of the Lomotil Sale and Lofenoxal
Sale enter into new arrangements for the supply of Lomotil and/or
Lofenoxal-branded products;
(e)
J&J enters into new arrangements for the supply of Lomotil and
Lofenoxal-branded products with an alternative supplier; or
(f)
the Approved Purchaser(s) of the Lomotil Sale and Lofenoxal Sale
enters into new arrangement for the supply of Lomotil and Lofenoxal-
branded products with an alternative supplier.
28 
In the event that of any of the circumstances described in paragraph 27 (a), (c),
or (e) occur, J&J will supply the Approved Purchaser(s) of the Lomotil and
Lofenoxal Sales with the quantities of Lomotil and/or Lofenoxal-branded
products requested by the Approved Purchaser(s) at J&J's actual costs (being
the price paid to J&J's supplier plus direct costs of delivery).
29 
In relation to paragraph 28, the supply by J&J (or one or more of its Related
Bodies Corporate) to the Approved Purchaser(s) must cease 2 years from the
date(s) on which the Lomotil Sale and Lofenoxal Sales are completed.
30 
Notwithstanding paragraph 29, J&J will continue to supply Lomotil and/or
Lofenoxal-branded product to the Approved Purchaser on terms referred to in
paragraph 28 for a further 12 months after the expiry of the two year period if:
page 9


(a)
the Approved Purchaser requests it; and
(b)
the reason for the Approved Purchaser's request is that it is unable to
commence retailing Lomotil and/or Lofenoxal-branded product sourced
from an alternative supplier as a result of delay in obtaining the
necessary approvals from the Therapeutic Goods Administration which
delay is not caused by any act or omission of the Approved Purchaser.
31 
When the Approved Purchaser(s) for the Lomotil Sale and Lofenoxal Sale
obtains or seeks to obtain supply of these products from a source other than
J&J, Pfizer or NPIL, J&J will use its best endeavours to procure that the
Approved Purchaser(s) for the Lomotil Sale and Lofenoxal Sale secure a
competitive source of supply of Lomotil and/or Lofenoxal-branded products,
including by assisting the Approved Purchaser(s) for the Lomotil Sale and
Lofenoxal Sale to gain any approvals, authorisations and licences necessary
for it to obtain supply of Lomotil and/or Lofenoxal-branded products for retail
sale within Australia (regardless of whether the Approved Purchaser(s) for the
Lomotil Sale and Lofenoxal Sale elects to manufacture, import or acquire from
third parties Lomotil and/or Lofenoxal-branded products).
Undertaking to comply with EC Commitments
32 
J&J will comply with its commitment to divest the ALZA Nicotine Patch
Business and related obligations pursuant to the EC Commitments.
Part 5: Divestiture Brand protection
Maintenance of Divestiture Brands
33 
Until completion of the Divestiture Brand Sales, J&J will take all reasonable
steps within its power and control as are necessary to:
(a)
preserve the reputation and goodwill of each of the Divestiture Brands;
and
(b)
maintain the standards of manufacture, distribution, promotion and sale
of the Divestiture Brands as at the date of this Undertaking.
page 10


Part 6: Commission approval
Divestment to Approved Purchaser only
34 
J&J must not sell, and must not authorise the Approved Agent or the
Divestiture Trustee to sell, the Divestiture Brands or the ALZA Nicotine Patch
Business to a purchaser other than an Approved Purchaser.
Approved Purchaser
35 
An Approved Purchaser is a Prospective Purchaser that has not been objected
to by the Commission within the objection period specified in paragraph 41 of
this Undertaking.
36 
To assist the Commission in deciding whether to approve a Prospective
Purchaser of one or more of the Divestiture Brands, J&J will provide, or direct
the Approved Agent to provide, the Commission with the following information
and such other information that the Commission reasonably requests:
(a)
the name, address and other relevant contact details of the Prospective
Purchaser;
(b)
a copy of a signed conditional sale agreement with the Prospective
Purchaser;
(c)
a description of the business carried on in Australia by the Prospective
Purchaser;
(d)
the names of the ultimate holding company and directors of the
Prospective Purchaser; and
(e)
a statutory declaration by J&J attesting to:
(i)
any current or likely contracts, arrangements or understandings
between J&J (or its Related Bodies Corporate) and the
Prospective Purchaser (or its Related Bodies Corporate); and
(ii)
any contracts, arrangements or understandings between J&J
(or its Related Corporate) and the Prospective Purchaser (or its
Related Bodies Corporate) made or arrived at in the last 5
years,
and such contracts, arrangements or understandings would include
equity interests, joint ventures, supply arrangements, licensing
page 11


agreements, directorships and management positions in Australia and
overseas.
37 
J&J will provide or direct the Approved Agent to provide the information
referred to in paragraph 36 of this Undertaking within 5 Business Days of J&J
reaching a conditional sale agreement with a Prospective Purchaser of one or
more of the Divestiture Brands.
38 
To assist the Commission to decide whether to approve a Prospective
Purchaser of the ALZA Nicotine Patch Business, J&J will provide, or direct the
Divestiture Trustee to provide, the Commission with:
(a)
the material required by paragraph 36 of this Undertaking; and
(b)
a copy of the EC Purchaser Proposal.
39 
J&J will provide or direct the Divestiture Trustee to provide the material in
paragraph 38 of this Undertaking within 2 Business Days of providing to the EC
the EC Purchaser Proposal.
40 
J&J will notify the Commission of the EC's decision in relation to the proposed
divestiture of the ALZA Nicotine Patch Business within 2 Business Days of
receiving notification from the EC of its decision.
41 
The Prospective Purchaser becomes an Approved Purchaser for the purposes
of this Undertaking if the Commission does not object to the Prospective
Purchaser in accordance with paragraph 42:
a.
within 20 Business Days of receipt of the information from J&J (or the
Approved Agent) referred to in paragraph 36 of this Undertaking;
b.
within 18 Business Days of receipt of the information from J&J (or the
Divestiture Trustee) referred to in paragraph 38 of this Undertaking; or
c.
within such further period as the Commission and J&J may agree to in
writing.
42 
The Commission may object to the Prospective Purchaser on the basis the
Commission has formed the view based on reasonable grounds, in its absolute
discretion, that:
(a) 
the Prospective Purchaser is not a person or corporation which is
independent of J&J;
page 12


(b)
the Prospective Purchaser is not of good financial standing or does
not have an intention to maintain the relevant Divestiture Brand(s) or
ALZA Nicotine Patch Business; and
(c)
a sale of the relevant Divestiture Brand or the ALZA Nicotine Patch
Business to the Prospective Purchaser is not likely to address the
competition concerns identified by the Commission in its Statement of
Issues,
and J&J will not contest the Commission's view.
43 
In the event that the Commission objects to a Prospective Purchaser it will, on
a confidential basis and within the time specified in paragraph 41 of this
Undertaking, provide J&J with a written statement of its reasons including the
material facts it relies on for its view.
44 
In the event that the Commission objects to a Prospective Purchaser, J&J may
identify or direct the Approved Agent or the Divestiture Trustee to identify to the
Commission an alternative Prospective Purchaser (in accordance with
paragraphs 36 and 37, or 38 and 39 of this Undertaking) for consideration by
the Commission in accordance with paragraphs 41 and 42 of this Undertaking.
Part 7: Sale of Unsold Divestiture Brands
Sale by Approved Agent
45 
In the event that a Divestiture Brand becomes an Unsold Divestiture Brand,
J&J will within 2 Business Days of Commission approval of the Approved
Agent appoint an Approved Agent to effect the sale of the particular Unsold
Divestiture Brand.
46 The Approved Agent must be a person who is independent from J&J, and who
has the qualifications and experience necessary to effect the sale of the Unsold
Divestiture Brand.
Commission approval of Proposed Agent
47 
Within 2 Business Days of the expiry of the Initial Sale Period, J&J will advise
the Commission in writing of the identity of the Proposed Agent together with
such information as J&J considers the Commission reasonably requires to
assess whether the Commission is prepared to consent to the Proposed Agent.
page 13


48 
If, within 10 Business Days of receipt by the Commission of the information
from J&J referred to in paragraph 47 of this Undertaking:
(a)
the Commission does not object in writing to the Proposed Agent, the
Proposed Agent will be deemed to be an Approved Agent and will be
appointed by J&J as soon as practicable thereafter and a copy of the
executed terms of appointment forwarded to the Commission within 2
Business Days of the appointment; or
(b)
the Commission does object in writing to the Proposed Agent, J&J must
either (at the Commission's election):
(i)
identify within 10 Business Days an alternative to the Proposed
Agent (in which case the provisions of paragraphs 47 and 48 of
this Undertaking apply); or
(ii)
appoint a nominee of the President of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Australia as the Approved Agent.
Appointment of Approved Agent
49 
Within 5 Business Days of the appointment of the Approved Agent, J&J must
procure and/or grant the Approved Agent, by execution and provision of an
unconditional and irrevocable power of attorney in favour of the Approved
Agent, all necessary power and authority to implement the Lomotil Sale,
Lofenoxal Sale and/or Vermox Sale, as applicable, and, subject to paragraph
50 of this Undertaking, to do so in a manner and on the terms considered
appropriate by the Approved Agent, in its sole discretion, to ensure compliance
with this Undertaking. In particular, the Approved Agent may include in
Divestiture Brand Sale agreements such customary representations,
warranties and indemnities as are reasonably required to effect the sale.
50 In appointing the Approved Agent, J&J must require that the Approved Agent
use his or her best endeavours to complete the Lomotil Sale, Lofenoxal Sale
and/or Vermox Sale, as applicable:
(a)
within 2 months of the appointment of the Approved Agent;
(b)
in accordance with the provisions of part 6 of this Undertaking; and
(c)
at the most favourable price and terms reasonably available to the
Approved Agent at the time but subject to an absolute and
page 14


unconditional obligation to implement such Divestiture Brand Sale/s at
any price.
Approved Agent Indemnity
51 
J&J will indemnify, other than for fraud, breach of contract or breach of duty,
the Approved Agent in the course of carrying out his or her functions in
accordance with the terms of his or her appointment.
Provision of assistance to Approved Agent
52 
J&J will provide the Approved Agent with:
(a)
all relevant information available to J&J; and
(b)
all reasonable assistance,
to enable the Approved Agent to implement the Lomotil Sale, Lofenoxal Sale
and/or Vermox Sale, as applicable.
Part 8: Audit
Independent Auditor to monitor compliance
53 
J&J will maintain the appointment of an Independent Auditor until the
completion of all of the Divestiture Brand Sales.
54 
The Independent Auditor must be independent of J&J.
55 
J&J will use its best endeavours to maintain the appointment of KPMG as
Independent Auditor.
56 
Notwithstanding paragraph 55 of this Undertaking, J&J will terminate the
appointment of the Independent Auditor if the Commission advises J&J in
writing that it has formed the view that the Independent Auditor is not properly
performing his or her functions.
57 
In the event that the Independent Auditor resigns, or J&J terminates the
appointment of the Independent Auditor in accordance with paragraph 56 of
this Undertaking, J&J will promptly appoint another Independent Auditor who is
either approved in writing by the Commission in accordance with paragraph 58
of this Undertaking or who is identified by the Commission in accordance with
paragraph 59 of this Undertaking.
page 15


58 
Within 5 Business Days of the resignation of the Independent Auditor or the
termination of the Independent Auditor's appointment, J&J must submit the
name and contact details of its choice of successor Independent Auditor to the
Commission for approval.
59 In the event that the Commission does not, acting reasonably, approve J&J's
choice of successor Independent Auditor, J&J must appoint an Independent
Auditor nominated by the Commission.
Functions of Independent Auditor
60 
J&J will require that the Independent Auditor provide to the Commission, with a
copy to J&J, every 30 days from the date of this Undertaking until the
completion of all of the Divestiture Brand Sales, a report including (without
limitation):
(a)
the Independent Auditor's view of J&J's compliance with its obligations
under Part 5 of this Undertaking;
(b)
reasons for the conclusions reached in the report, including references to
the supporting evidence;
(c)
any assumptions made by the Independent Auditor in forming its view;
(d)
any qualifications made by the Independent Auditor; and
(e)
any recommendations made by the Independent Auditor to improve the
integrity of the audit process.
Implementation of Independent Auditor recommendations
61 
J&J undertakes to implement, within 10 Business Days of receiving the
Independent Auditor's report, any recommendations made by the Independent
Auditor in its report.
62 If J&J reasonably believes that the implementation required by paragraph 61 of
this Undertaking is likely to take more than 10 Business Days, it must notify the
Commission as soon as practicable in writing, stating:
(a)
the reasons why it believes the implementation will take more than 10
Business Days, including supporting evidence;
(b)
the steps it is taking to implement the recommendations; and
page 16


(c) an estimate of the date by which the recommendations will be fully
implemented.
63 
J&J will furnish the Commission with a report detailing the progress of
implementing the Independent Auditor's recommendations every 10 Business
Days until they are fully implemented or the Divestiture Brand Sales are
complete.
Provision of access and assistance to Independent Auditor
64 
J&J will cooperate fully with the Independent Auditor and will provide the
Independent Auditor with such access, information and assistance as is
necessary to enable the Independent Auditor to carry out his or her functions
as set out in this Undertaking, including, without limitation:
(a)
access to officers, employees, representatives and agents of Australian
J&J Subsidiaries for any relevant purpose, including to find out how
J&J's obligations under Part 5 of this Undertaking are to be
implemented and understood and J&J will direct those officers,
employees or representatives to answer the Independent Auditor's
questions honestly and comprehensively;
(b)
access to (to the extent it is within J&J's control) information about
customers, and the customers themselves, in order to obtain
information about customers' experience of J&J and its services and
compliance with its obligations under Part 5 of this Undertaking; and
(c)
access to all the records of J&J, in whatever form, relevant to the
Independent Auditor's inquiries and his or her duties under this Part 8.
65 
J&J will authorise and pay for the Independent Auditor to engage any technical
or other expertise as the Independent Auditor reasonably requires to conduct
the audits.
Monitoring Trustee
66 
J&J shall require the Monitoring Trustee to provide to the Commission a copy
of all reports and other documents the Monitoring Trustee provides to the EC,
to the extent relating to nicotine replacement therapy products, within 2
Business Days of providing the same material to the EC.
page 17


67 
At the request of the Commission, J&J wilt provide to the Commission a copy
of material that J&J has provided to the Monitoring Trustee, to the extent
relating to nicotine replacement therapy products, within 2 Business Days of
the Commission's request.
68 
J&J shall require the Monitoring Trustee to cooperate with the Commission
including by providing any information or documents within its control, to the
extent that the Commission requests for the purpose of monitoring J&J's
compliance with the EC Commitments that are pertinent to nicotine
replacement products in Australia.
69 
Except as required by law and subject to paragraph 74, the Commission will
keep confidential any information provided to it by the Monitoring Trustee which
is identified by J&J or the Monitoring Trustee as confidential and the
Commission agrees is confidential and will not disclose such information to any
party without the written consent of J&J and the Monitoring Trustee.
Part 9: General
Obligation to procure
70 
Where the performance of an obligation under this Undertaking is imposed on
J&J, if complete performance of the Undertaking requires a Related Body
Corporate of J&J to take some action or refrain from taking some action, J&J
will procure that Related Body Corporate to take that action or refrain from
taking that action and, if necessary, will procure the offering by the Related
Body Corporate to the Commission of undertakings on such identical terms to
this Undertaking as are relevant to the actions which the Related Body
Corporate is to take or refrain from taking.
Obligation to provide the Commission with information
71 
J&J will provide the Commission with all information and documents that the
Commission reasonably requires for the purpose of monitoring compliance with
the Undertaking (and J&J acknowledges that the Commission is free to use
such information for any purpose consistent with its functions as a regulator).
72 
J&J will use its best endeavour to comply with any request for information by
the Commission within 5 Business Days or such other period of time as may be
agreed between J&J and the Commission.
page 18


73 
Except as required by law and subject to paragraph 74, the Commission will
keep confidential any information provided to it by J&J pursuant to this Part 9
which is identified by J&J as confidential and the Commission agrees is
confidential and will not disclose the same to any party without the written
consent of J&J.
74 
In the event, referred to in paragraphs 69 and 73, that the Commission does
not agree that information identified by J&J or the Monitoring Trustee as
confidential is, in fact, confidential, J&J and the Commission agree to appoint a
senior legal practitioner nominated by the President of the Law Society of New
South Wales to determine the confidentiality of the particular information, which
determination will not be contested by J&J or the Commission.
Severability
75 
If for any reason a provision or provisions of this Undertaking are found to be
unlawful, invalid or unenforceable, to the extent permitted by law, the remaining
terms of the Undertaking remain in force.
Jurisdiction and Service of Process
76 
J&J submits to the jurisdiction of the Federal Court of Australia.
77 
Unless and until notified in writing by J&J to the Commission of the
appointment of another law firm as agent within Australia, J&J irrevocably
appoints Corrs Chambers Westgarth, of Level 36, Governor Phillip Tower, 1
Farrer Place, Sydney, NSW, 2000, Australia as their agent for the purposes of
any service of process under this Undertaking.
Notices
78 
Any notice or other communication given in relation to this Undertaking should
be sent to the address or fax number given below:
J&J 
Johnson & Johnson Pacific Pty Limited
Attention: Mr Max Johnston, President and Chief
Executive Officer
45 Jones Street
Ultimo NSW 2007
Fax: (02) 8260 8290
page 19


Commission
With a copy to:
Corrs Chambers Westgarth
Attention: Ms Kathryn Edghill, Partner
Level 36, Governor Phillip Tower
1 Farrer Place
Sydney NSW 2000
Fax: (02) 9210 6611
Attention: Mr Tim Grimwade, General Manager,
Mergers and Asset Sales
Level 7, Angel Place
123 Pitt Street
Sydney NSW 2000
Fax: (02) 9223 1092
Acknowledgments
79 
J&J acknowledges that this Undertaking in no way affects the rights and
remedies available to any other person arising from the subject matter of the
Undertaking.
80 J&J acknowledges that the Commission will make this Undertaking available
for public inspection and that the Commission will, from time to time, publish
and publicly refer to this Undertaking.
page 20


SIGNED for JOHNSON & JOHNSON  
Signature of Witness 
Slatrcirl  
kANtrt 1_ Crisupl 
Name of Witness 
Name of Officer Ass 4. Se c r c
Date:
ACCEPTED by the AUSTRALIAN COMPETITION AND CONSUMER COMMISSION
Graeme Julian Samuel
Chairman
Australian Competition and Consumer Commission
Date: ) 1.1
page 21


Schedule 1
EC Commitments
page 22


Non-Confidential Version
Johnson & Johnson/Pfizer Consumer Healthcare
Case No. COMP/M.4314
Commitments to the European Commission
(J&J Commitments)
Pursuant to Article 6(2) of Council Regulation (EC) No. 139/2004 (the "Merger Regulation"),
Johnson & Johnson ("J&J") hereby provides the following commitments (the "Commitments") in
order to enable the European Commission (the "Commission") to declare the acquisition of Pfizer
Consumer Healthcare ("PCH") by J&J compatible with the Common Market and the EEA
Agreement.
Pfizer will provide separate commitments limited to specific obligations pertaining to the Trosyd
divestiture and the preservation of the viability, marketability and competitiveness of the Divestiture
Businesses held by Pfizer prior to the closing of the J&J/PCH transaction. Pfizer will sign a
separate undertaking to this effect. All other Commitments are given by J&J.
The Commitments shall take effect upon the date of adoption of the Commission Decision
pursuant to Article 6(1)(b) of the Merger Regulation in this case (the "Decision") but the divestiture
commitments in Section B shall be subject to the closing of J&J's acquisition of PCH.
This text shall be interpreted in the light of the Decision to the extent that the Commitments are
attached as conditions and obligations, within the general framework of Community law, in
particular the Merger Regulation and by reference to the Commission Notice on remedies
acceptable under the Merger Regulation.
Section A. Definitions
For the purpose of the Commitments, the following terms shall have the following meaning:
Affiliated Undertakings: undertakings controlled by J&J, whereby the notion of control shall be
interpreted pursuant to Article 3 of the Merger Regulation and in the light of the Commission Notice
on the concept of concentration under the Merger Regulation.
ALZA: ALZA Corporation, an Affiliated Undertaking of J&J, incorporated under the laws of
Delaware, with its registered office at 1900 Charleston Road, Mountain View, California 94943,
U.S.A.
Closing: the transfer of the legal title of each Divestiture Business to the Purchaser.
Divestiture Businesses: the assets comprising the businesses that J&J commits to divest, as
further defined in Section B and the attached Schedules (each respective business defined in the
Schedules herein referred to as a "Divestiture Business").
Divestiture Trustee: one or more natural or legal person(s), independent from J&J or Pfizer, who
is approved by the Commission and appointed by J&J and who has received from J&J the
exclusive mandate to sell one or more of the Divestiture Businesses to a Purchaser at no minimum
price.
Effective Date: the date of the Decision.
Extended Divestiture Period: [CONFIDENTIAL] from the date of expiry of the First Divestiture
Period within which the Divestiture Trustee shall have the irrevocable and exclusive mandate from
A07158417
1


Non-Confidential Version
J&J to sell those Divestiture Businesses for which a binding agreement is not yet concluded at the
end of the First Divestiture Period.
First Divestiture Period: [CONFIDENTIAL] from the Effective Date within which J&J may
conclude one or more binding agreements to sell the Divestiture Businesses before providing a
mandate to the Divestiture Trustee.
Hold Separate Manager: the person appointed by J&J to manage the day-to-day business of a
Divestiture Business that is held separate pursuant to paragraph 10, under the supervision of the
Monitoring Trustee.
J&J: Johnson & Johnson, incorporated under the laws of New Jersey, with its registered office at
One Johnson & Johnson Plaza, New Brunswick, New Jersey 08933, U.S.A.
Key Personnel: all personnel necessary to maintain the viability and competitiveness of a
Divestiture Business, as listed in the applicable Schedule.
Monitoring Trustee: one or more natural or legal person(s), independent from the Parties, who is
approved by the Commission and appointed by J&J, and who has the duty to monitor J&J's
compliance with the conditions and obligations attached to the Decision.
PCH: Pfizer Consumer Healthcare, a division of Pfizer Inc., with its registered office at 201 Tabor
Road, Morris Plains, New Jersey, NJ 07950, U.S.A.
Personnel: the personnel currently employed by the Divestiture Business, if applicable, as listed
in the applicable Schedule.
Pfizer: Pfizer Inc., incorporated under the laws of Delaware, with its registered office at 235 East
42nd Street, New York, NY 10017, U.S.A.
Purchaser: with regard to each Divestiture Business, the undertaking approved by the
Commission as acquirer of the Divestiture Business in accordance with the criteria set out in
Section D.
Transitional Period: The transitional period defined in Section 4 of the Global Nicotine Patch
Business Schedule and Section 4 of the International Nicotine Patch Business Schedule.
Trustee(s): the Monitoring Trustee and/or the Divestiture Trustee.
Section B. The divestiture commitment
Commitment to divest
1.
In order to maintain or restore effective competition, J&J commits to divest, or procure the
divestiture of, the Divestiture Businesses as going concerns to one or more Purchasers on
terms of sale approved by the Commission in accordance with the procedure described in
paragraph 19 (the "Divestiture Commitment"). J&J commits to do so by the end of the
Extended Divestiture Period. To carry out each divestiture, J&J shall seek to find, for each
Divestiture Business, a Purchaser and to enter into a final binding agreement for the sale
of such Divestiture Business within the First Divestiture Period. If J&J has not entered into
such an agreement at the end of the First Divestiture Period, J&J shall grant the Divestiture
Trustee an exclusive mandate to sell the Divestiture Business within the Extended
Divestiture Period in accordance with the procedure described in paragraph 29.
2.
J&J shall be deemed to have complied with the Divestiture Commitment if, (i) by the end of
the Extended Divestiture Period, J&J or an Affiliated Undertaking has entered into a final
A07158417
2


Non-Confidential Version
binding sale and purchase agreement for each of the Divestiture Businesses; (ii) the
Commission approves the Purchasers and the terms in accordance with the procedure
described in paragraphs 18 and 19; and (iii) Closings take place in each case within a
period not exceeding [CONFIDENTIAL] after the approval of the respective Purchaser and
the terms of sale by the Commission.
3. In order to maintain the structural effect of the Divestiture Commitment, J&J shall, for a
period of ten (10) years after the Effective Date, not acquire direct or indirect influence over
the whole or part of any of the Divestiture Businesses, unless the Commission has
previously found that the market structure has changed to such an extent that the absence
of influence over the Divestiture Business in question is no longer necessary to render the
proposed concentration compatible with the Merger Regulation.
4. 
In any event, the sale of any Divestiture Business must only occur if the J&J acquisition of
PCH has closed.
The Divestiture Businesses
5. 
The Divestiture Businesses consist of the following:
(i)
the Trosyd business in Italy (the "Trosyd Divestiture");
(ii)
the ACT business in the EEA and Swizerland (the "ACT Divestiture");
(iii)
either of two alternatives for the ALZA supply business of transdermal nicotine
patches: J&J has the option to seek the Divestiture of ALZA's supply business of
transdermal nicotine patches outside the U.S.A. Canada and Korea (the
"International Nicotine Patch Business Divestiture Alternative") but commits
that if a final binding agreement for the sale of this business is not concluded, in
accordance with paragraph 1, by the end of [CONFIDENTIAL], it shall pursue the
Divestiture of ALZA's worldwide nicotine patch supply business (the "Global
Nicotine Patch Business Divestiture Alternative") within [CONFIDENTIAL];
each time as further defined in the relevant Schedule.
These businesses will be divested to one or more Purchaser(s).
6. The divestiture of the Divestiture Businesses will proceed by way of asset transactions
(including transfer, sale, assignment, license, as the case may be and in sofar as legally
permissible). As a general rule, each divestiture transaction shall include the following
elements, as more specifically defined in the relevant Schedule:
(i)
all tangible and intangible assets (including the relevant intellectual property rights),
by way of transfer, sale, assignment or license, which are necessary to ensure the
viability and competitiveness of the Divestiture Business;
(ii)
all licences, permits and authorisations issued by any governmental organisation
for the benefit of the Divestiture Business;
(iii)
all contracts, leases, commitments and customer orders of the Divestiture
Business;
(iv)
all customer, credit and other records of the Divestiture Business;
hereinafter collectively referred to as "Assets")
(v)
the Personnel, as further specified in the applicable Schedule;
A07158417
3


Non-Confidential Version
(vi) at the option of the Purchaser, transitional agreements with J&J or Affiliated
Undertakings for the supply of products and/or technical assistance, as specified in
the applicable Schedule.
7. 
For the avoidance of doubt, the Divestiture Businesses shall not include:
(i)
intellectual property rights which do not contribute to the current operation of the
Divestiture Business;
(ii)
the Johnson & Johnson, Pfizer, ALZA, McNeil names and logos in any form;
(iii)
books and records required to be retained pursuant to any statute, rule, regulation
or ordinance, provided that copies of such documents necessary for the Divestiture
Business shall be provided to the Purchaser, upon request; and
(iv)
general books of account and books of original entry that comprise J&J's or PCH's
or an Affiliated Undertaking's permanent accounting or tax records provided that
copies of such documents necessary for the Divestiture Business shall be provided
to the Purchaser, upon request.
Section C. Related commitments
Preservation of viability, marketability and competitiveness
8. From the Effective Date (and if the Divestiture Business is a former PCH business from the
date of closing of the J&J/PCH transaction) until Closing, J&J shall preserve the economic
viability, marketability and competitiveness of each Divestiture Business, in accordance
with good business practice, and shall minimise as far as possible any risk of loss of
competitive potential. In particular J&J commits:
(i)
not to carry out any act upon its own authority that might have a significant adverse
impact on the value, management or competitiveness of the Divestiture Business
or that might alter the nature and scope of activity, or the industrial or commercial
strategy or the investment policy of the Divestiture Business;
(ii)
to make available sufficient resources for the development of the Divestiture
Business, on the basis and continuation of the existing business plans;
(iii)
to take all reasonable steps, including appropriate incentive schemes (based on
industry practice), to encourage Key Personnel to remain with the Divestiture
Business, if applicable.
Hold separate obligations
9. J&J commits, from the Effective Date (and if the Divestiture Business is a former PCH
business from the date of closing of the J&J/PCH transaction) until Closing and subject to
paragraph 8, to (i) keep the Divestiture Business separate from the businesses it is
retaining; (ii) ensure that Key Personnel (if applicable) of the Divestiture Business -
including the Hold Separate Manager - have no involvement in any retained business and
vice versa; and (iii) ensure that the Personnel do not report to any individual outside the
Divestiture Business (if applicable).
10. Prior to Closing, J&J shall assist the Monitoring Trustee in ensuring that the Divestiture
Business is managed as a distinct and saleable entity or group of assets separate from the
businesses it is retaining. J&J shall also appoint (a) Hold Separate Manager(s) who shall
A07158417
4


Non-Confidential Version
be responsible for the management of the Divestiture Businesses, under the supervision of
the Monitoring Trustee. The Hold Separate Manager shall manage the Divestiture
Business in the best interest of the business with a view to ensuring its continued
economic viability, marketability and competitiveness and its independence from the
businesses retained by J&J.
11.
With regard to the Global or International Nicotine Patch Business Divestiture Alternatives
only, the hold separate obligations referred to in paragraphs 9 and 10 shall continue until
the end of the Transitional Period.
Ring-fencing
12.
J&J shall implement all necessary measures to ensure that it does not after the Effective
Date obtain any business secrets, know-how, commercial information, or any other
information of a confidential or proprietary nature relating to the Divestiture Businesses.
However, J&J may obtain information relating to such Divestiture Business which is
reasonably necessary for the divestiture of the Divestiture Business or whose disclosure to
J&J is required by law.
13.
The participation of the ALZA Nicotine Patch Business in a central information technology
network shall be severed to the extent possible, without compromising the viability of the
Nicotine Patch Business.
Non-solicitation clause
14.
J&J undertakes, subject to customary limitations, not to solicit, and to procure that Affiliated
Undertakings do not solicit, the Key Personnel transferred with any Divestiture Business
for a period of [CONFIDENTIAL] after Closing.
Due diligence
15.
In order to enable potential purchasers to carry out a reasonable due diligence of the
Divestiture Businesses, J&J shall, subject to customary confidentiality assurances and
dependent on the stage of the divestiture process, (i) provide to potential purchasers
sufficient information as regards the relevant Divestiture Business; and (ii) provide to
potential purchasers sufficient information relating to the Personnel and allow them
reasonable access to the Personnel, if applicable.
Reporting
16.
J&J shall submit written reports in English to the Commission and the Monitoring Trustee
on potential purchasers of the Divestiture Businesses and developments in the
negotiations with such potential purchasers. It shall do so no later than ten (10) days after
the end of every month following the Effective Date (or otherwise at the Commission's
request).
17.
J&J shall inform the Commission and the Monitoring Trustee on the preparation of data
room documentation and the due diligence procedure and shall submit a copy of any
information memorandum to the Commission and the Monitoring Trustee before sending
the memorandum out to potential purchasers.
A07158417
5


Non-Confidential Version
Section D. The Purchaser
18. 
In order to ensure the maintenance or immediate restoration of effective competition, the
Purchaser, in order to be approved by the Commission, must:
(i)
be independent of and unconnected to J&J ;
(ii)
have the financial resources, proven expertise and incentive to maintain and
develop the Divestiture Business as a viable and active competitive force in
competition with J&J and other competitors;
(iii)
neither be likely to create, in the light of the information available to the
Commission, prima facie competition concerns nor give rise to a risk that the
implementation of the Divestiture Commitment will be delayed, and must, in
particular, reasonably be expected to obtain all necessary approvals from the
relevant regulatory authorities for the acquisition of the Divestiture Business
(the before-mentioned criteria for the purchaser are hereafter referred to as the
"Purchaser Requirements").
With regard to the Trosyd Divestiture and the Nicotine Patch Business Divestiture
Alternatives, further specifications to the Purchaser Requirements mentioned under (ii)
above are provided in the respective Schedules.
19. The final binding sale and purchase agreement shall be conditional on the Commission's
approval. When J&J has reached an agreement with a Purchaser, it shall submit a fully
documented and reasoned proposal, including a copy of the final agreement(s), to the
Commission and the Monitoring Trustee. J&J must be able to demonstrate to the
Commission that the Purchaser meets the Purchaser Requirements and that the
Divestiture Business is being sold in a manner consistent with the Divestiture Commitment.
For the approval, the Commission shall verify that the Purchaser fulfils the Purchaser
Requirements and that the Divestiture Business is being sold in a manner consistent with
the Divestiture Commitment. In the event that J&J receives offers from more than one
potential purchaser which, upon verification by the Commission, fulfil the Purchaser
Requirements, J&J shall be free to take whichever offer that J&J deems the most
appropriate to its interests. The Commission may approve the sale of the Divestiture
Business without one or more assets or members of the Personnel, if this does not affect
the viability and competitiveness of the Divestiture Business after the sale, taking account
of the proposed Purchaser.
Section E. Trustee
I. Appointment procedure
20. 
J&J shall appoint a Monitoring Trustee to carry out the functions specified below with
regard to the Monitoring Trustee.
21. If J&J has not entered into a binding sale and purchase agreement one (1) month before
the end of the First Divestiture Period or if the Commission has rejected a Purchaser
proposed by J&J at that time or thereafter, J&J shall appoint a Divestiture Trustee to carry
out the functions specified below with regard to the Divestiture Trustee. The appointment of
the Divestiture Trustee shall take effect upon the commencement of the Extended
Divestiture Period.
A07158417
6


Non-Confidential Version
22. The Trustee(s) shall be independent of J&J or Pfizer, possess the necessary qualifications
to carry out its mandate, for example as an investment bank or consultant or auditor, and
shall neither have nor become exposed to a conflict of interest. The Trustee(s) shall be
remunerated by J&J in a way that does not impede the independent and effective fulfilment
of its mandate. In particular, where the remuneration package of a Divestiture Trustee
includes a success premium linked to the final sale value of the Divestiture Business, the
fee shall also be linked to a divestiture within the Extended Divestiture Period.
Proposal by J&J
23. No later than one (1) week after the Effective Date, J&J shall submit to the Commission for
approval a list of one or more persons whom J&J proposes to appoint as the Monitoring
Trustee. No later than one (1) month before the end of the First Divestiture Period, J&J
shall submit to the Commission for approval a list of one or more persons whom J&J
proposes to appoint as Divestiture Trustee. The proposal shall contain sufficient
information for the Commission to verify that the proposed entities fulfil the requirements
set out in paragraph 22 and shall include:
(i)
the full terms of the proposed mandate, which shall include all provisions
necessary to enable the Trustee to fulfil its duties under these Commitments;
(ii)
the outline of a work plan which describes how the Trustee intends to carry out its
assigned tasks;
(iii)
an indication whether the proposed Trustee is to act as both Monitoring Trustee
and Divestiture Trustee or whether different Trustees are proposed for the two
functions.
Approval or rejection by the Commission
24. The Commission shall have the discretion to approve or reject the proposed Trustee(s) and
to approve the proposed mandate subject to any modifications it deems necessary for the
Trustee to fulfil its obligations. if only one name is approved, J&J shall appoint or cause to
be appointed, the individual or institution concerned as Trustee, in accordance with the
mandate approved by the Commission. If more than one name is approved, J&J shall be
free to choose the Trustee to be appointed from among the names approved. The Trustee
shall be appointed within one week of the Commission's approval, in accordance with the
mandate approved by the Commission.
New proposal by J&J
25. If all the proposed Trustees are rejected, J&J shall submit the names of at least two (2)
more individuals or institutions within one (1) week of being informed of the rejection, in
accordance with the requirements and the procedure set out in paragraph 23.
Trustee nominated by the Commission
26. If all further proposed Trustees are rejected by the Commission, the Commission shall
nominate a Trustee, whom J&J shall appoint, or cause to be appointed, in accordance with
a trustee mandate approved by the Commission.
A07158417
7


Non-Confidential Version
II. Functions of the Trustee
27.
The Trustee shall assume its specified duties in order to ensure compliance with the
Commitments. The Commission may, on its own initiative or at the request of the Trustee
or J&J, give any orders or instructions to the Trustee in order to ensure compliance with
the conditions and obligations attached to the Decision.
Duties and obligations of the Monitoring Trustee
28.
The Monitoring Trustee shall:
(a) propose in its first report to the Commission a detailed work plan describing how it
intends to monitor compliance with the obligations and conditions attached to the
Decision.
(b) oversee the ongoing management of each Divestiture Business with a view to
ensuring its continued economic viability, marketability and competitiveness and
monitor compliance with the conditions and obligations attached to the Decision,
and in particular shall:
(i)
monitor the preservation of the economic viability, marketability and
competitiveness of the Divestiture Businesses in accordance with
paragraph 8;
(ii)
ensure that the Divestiture Business is kept separate from the businesses
retained by J&J, in accordance with paragraph 9;
(iii)
supervise the management of the Divestiture Business as a distinct and
saleable entity, in accordance with paragraph 10;
(iv)
supervise the implementation of the transitional supply and technical
assistance arrangements with regard to the Nicotine Patch Business
divestiture as well as the implementation of compliance with the firewall
arrangements with regard to that divestiture;
(v)
in consultation with J&J, determine all necessary measures to ensure that
the competitive businesses retained by J&J does not after the Effective
Date obtain any business secrets, know-how, commercial information, or
any other information of a confidential or proprietary nature relating to that
Divestiture Business, in particular strive for the severing of the Divestiture
Business' participation in a central information technology network to the
extent possible, without comprising the viability of the Divestiture Business,
and decide whether such information may be disclosed to J&J as its
disclosure is reasonably necessary to allow J&J to carry out the divestiture
or as the disclosure is required by law;
(vi)
monitor the splitting of assets and the allocation of Personnel (if applicable)
between the Divestiture Business and J&J or Affiliated Undertakings.
(c) assume the other functions assigned to the Monitoring Trustee under the
conditions and obligations attached to the Decision, including the monitoring of the
implementation of the technical assistance agreement and the supply agreement
referred to in the Schedules with regard to the ALZA Nicotine Patch Business.
A07158417
8


Non-Confidential Version
(d)
propose to J&J such measures as the Monitoring Trustee considers necessary to
ensure J&J's compliance with the conditions and obligations attached to the
Decision, in particular the maintenance of the full economic viability, marketability
or competitiveness of the Divestiture Businesses, the holding separate of
Divestiture Businesses and the non-disclosure of competitively sensitive
information.
(e)
review and assess potential purchasers as well as the progress of the divestiture
process and verify that, dependent on the stage of the divestiture process, (i)
potential purchasers receive sufficient information relating to the Divestiture
Business and the Personnel, in particular by reviewing, if available, the data room
documentation, the information memorandum and the due diligence process, and
(ii) potential purchasers are granted reasonable access to the Personnel.
(f)
provide to the Commission a written report within fifteen (15) days after the end of
every month, and send J&J a non-confidential copy at the same time. The report
shall cover the operation and management of the Divestiture Business so that the
Commission can assess whether the business is held in a manner consistent with
the Commitments and the progress of the divestiture process as well as potential
purchasers. In addition to these reports, the Monitoring Trustee shall promptly
report in writing to the Commission, sending J&J a non-confidential copy at the
same time, if it concludes on reasonable grounds that J&J is failing to comply with
these Commitments.
(g)
within one week after receipt of the documented proposal referred to in paragraph
19, submit to the Commission a reasoned opinion as to the suitability and
independence of the proposed purchaser and the viability of the Divestiture
Business after the sale and as to whether the Divestiture Business is sold in a
manner consistent with the conditions and obligations attached to the Decision, in
particular, if relevant, whether the sale of the Divestiture Business without one or
more assets or not all of the Personnel affects the viability of the Divestiture
Business after the sale, taking account of the proposed purchaser.
Duties and obligations of the Divestiture Trustee
29.
Within the Extended Divestiture Period, the Divestiture Trustee shall sell at no minimum
price any Divestiture Business that remains unsold to a Purchaser, provided that the
Commission has approved both the Purchaser and the final binding sale and purchase
agreement in accordance with the procedure laid down in paragraph 19. The Divestiture
Trustee shall include in the sale and purchase agreement such terms and conditions as it
considers appropriate for an expedient sale in the Extended Divestiture Period. In
particular, the Divestiture Trustee may include in the sale and purchase agreement such
customary representations and warranties and indemnities as are reasonably required to
effect the sale. The Divestiture Trustee shall protect the legitimate financial interests of
J&J, subject to J&J's unconditional obligation to divest at no minimum price in the
Extended Divestiture Period.
30.
In the Extended Divestiture Period (or otherwise at the Commission's request), the
Divestiture Trustee shall provide the Commission with a comprehensive monthly report
written in English on the progress of the divestiture process. Such reports shall be
submitted within fifteen (15) days after the end of every month with a simultaneous copy to
the Monitoring Trustee and a non-confidential copy to J&J.
A07158417
9


Non-Confidential Version
Ill. Duties and obligations of J&J
31.
J&J shall provide, and shall cause its advisors to provide, the Trustee with all such co-
operation, assistance and information as the Trustee may reasonably require to perform its
tasks. The Trustee shall have full and complete access to any of J&J's, its Affiliated
Undertakings', or the Divestiture Business' books, records, documents, management or
other personnel, facilities, sites and technical information necessary for fulfilling its duties
under the Commitments and J&J and the Divestiture Business shall provide the Trustee
upon request with copies of any document. The Trustee shall agree in writing to keep any
confidential information and business secrets disclosed to it in confidence, except to the
extent necessary to perform its duties hereunder. J&J, its Affiliated Undertakings, or the
Divestiture Business shall make available to the Trustee one or more offices on its
premises and shall be available for meetings in order to provide the Trustee with all
information necessary for the performance of its tasks.
32.
J&J shall provide the Monitoring Trustee with all managerial and administrative support
that it may reasonably request on behalf of the management of the Divestiture Business.
This shall include all administrative support functions relating to the Divestiture Business
which are currently carried out at headquarters level. J&J shall provide and shall cause its
advisors to provide the Monitoring Trustee, on request, with the information submitted to
potential purchasers, in particular give the Monitoring Trustee access to the data room
documentation and all other information granted to potential purchasers in the due
diligence procedure. J&J shall inform the Monitoring Trustee on possible purchasers,
submit a list of potential purchasers, and keep the Monitoring Trustee informed of all
developments in the divestiture process.
33.
J&J shall grant or procure Affiliated Undertakings to grant comprehensive powers of
attorney, duly executed, to the Divestiture Trustee to effect the sale during the Extended
Divestiture Period, the Closing and all actions and declarations which the Divestiture
Trustee considers necessary or appropriate to achieve the sale and the Closing, including
the appointment of advisors to assist with the sale process. Upon request of the Divestiture
Trustee, J&J shall cause the documents required for effecting the sale and the Closing to
be duly executed.
34.
J&J shall indemnify the Trustee and its employees and agents (each an "Indemnified
Party") and hold each Indemnified Party harmless against, and hereby agrees that an
Indemnified Party shall have no liability to J&J for, any liabilities arising out of the
performance of the Trustee's duties under the Commitments, except to the extent that such
liabilities result from the wilful default, recklessness, gross negligence or bad faith of the
Trustee, its employees, agents or advisors.
35.
At the expense of J&J, the Trustee may appoint advisors (in particular for corporate finance
or legal advice), subject to J&J's approval (this approval not to be unreasonably withheld or
delayed) if the Trustee considers the appointment of such advisors necessary or
appropriate for the performance of its duties and obligations under the trustee mandate,
provided that any fees and other expenses incurred by the Trustee are reasonable. Should
J&J refuse to approve the advisors proposed by the Trustee the Commission may approve
the appointment of such advisors instead, after having heard J&J. Only the Trustee shall
be entitled to issue instructions to the advisors. Paragraph 34 shall apply mutatis mutandis.
In the Extended Divestiture Period, the Divestiture Trustee may use advisors who served
J&J during the Divestiture Period if the Divestiture Trustee considers this in the best
interest of an expedient sale.
A07158417
10


Non-Confidential Version
IV. Replacement, discharge and reappointment of the Trustee
36. 
If the Trustee ceases to perform its functions under the Commitments or for any other good
cause, including the exposure of the Trustee to a conflict of interest:
(i)
The Commission may, after hearing the Trustee, require J&J to replace the
Trustee; or
(ii)
J&J, with the prior approval of the Commission, may replace the Trustee.
37. If the Trustee is removed according to paragraph 36, the Trustee may be required to
continue in its function until a new Trustee is in place to whom the Trustee has effected a
full handover of all relevant information. The new Trustee shall be appointed in accordance
with the procedure referred to in paragraphs 20 through 26.
38. Beside the removal according to paragraph 36, the Trustee shall cease to act as Trustee
only after the Commission has discharged it from its duties after all the Commitments with
which the Trustee has been entrusted have been implemented. However, the Commission
may at any time require the reappointment of the Monitoring Trustee if it subsequently
appears that the relevant remedies might not have been fully and properly implemented.
Section F. Dispute resolution
39. Should a dispute arise between J&J and the Purchaser regarding the implementation of
any term of the technical assistance agreement or the supply arrangement referred to in
ALZA Nicotine Patch Business Schedule, such dispute shall be submitted to a fast track
resolution procedure (the "Fast Track Resolution Procedure").
40. 
The Fast Track Resolution Procedure will operate as follows:
(i)
The party who seeks to initiate the Procedure (the "Initiating Party") shall notify
the other party (the "Other Party") of its request and specify the reasons why it
believes that a failure by the Other Party to meet such request would be
inconsistent with these Commitments.
(ii)
The Purchaser and J&J (including the relevant Affiliated Undertaking) shall use
their best efforts to resolve all differences of opinion and to settle all disputes that
may arise through co-operation and consultation within a reasonable period of time
not to exceed fifteen (15) calendar days.
(iii)
Should the Purchaser and J&J fail to resolve their differences of opinion through
co-operation and consultation, the Initiating Party shall within seven (7) days initiate
an arbitration process.
(iv)
To initiate the arbitration process, the Initiating Party shall give written notice to the
Other Party nominating an arbitrator and stating the specific nature of the claim, the
factual basis of its position and the relief requested. In such case, the Other Party
shall appoint another arbitrator within fourteen (14) calendar days after receipt of
the written notice. The arbitrators so appointed shall appoint a third arbitrator to be
president of the arbitration tribunal within seven (7) calendar days after both
arbitrators have been nominated. If the arbitrators nominated by the Purchaser and
J&J cannot agree on the nomination of a third arbitrator, they shall request that the
London Court of International Arbitration appoint the third arbitrator.
A07158417
11


Non-Confidential Version
(v)
Any of the arbitrators will be entitled to request any relevant information from the
Purchaser, J&J or the relevant Affiliated Undertaking. The arbitrators shall agree in
writing to keep any confidential information and business secrets disclosed to them
in confidence. Throughout these Commitments the standards attributed to
confidential information and business secrets are those as set out in accordance
with European Community law.
(vi)
The burden of proof in any dispute governed by this Section shall be as follows: (i)
the Initiating Party must produce evidence of a prima facie case, and (ii) if the
Initiating Party produces evidence of a prima facie case, the arbitrators must find in
favour of the Initiating Party unless the Other Party can produce evidence to the
contrary.
(vii)
The arbitration procedure shall follow the Rules of the London Court of
International Arbitration. The arbitration shall be conducted in London. The
language of the arbitration shall be English. In the event of disagreement between
the parties to the arbitration regarding the interpretation of the Commitments, the
arbitrators shall inform the Commission and may seek the Commission's
interpretation of the Commitments before finding in favour of any party to the
arbitration. The Commission may, at any time, issue a submission during the
arbitration procedure
(viii)
The arbitration award shall, in addition to dealing with the merits of the claim,
impose the fees and costs of the prevailing party upon the party that is
unsuccessful.
(ix)
Decisions of the arbitrators shall be final and binding on all persons submitting to
arbitration.
(x)
Nothing in the above-described arbitration procedure shall affect the powers of the
Commission to take decisions in relation to the Commitments in accordance with
its powers under the Merger Regulation and the EC Treaty.
41. The parties shall report to the Commission any matters which the Commission reasonably
requests in order to determine whether the parties have complied with the present
commitments with regard to dispute resolution. Any such report shall be sent to the
Commission within fifteen (15) working days from the date the Commission makes a
request.
Section G. The review clause
42. 
The Commission may, where appropriate, in response to a request from J&J showing good
cause and accompanied by a report from the Monitoring Trustee:
(i)
grant an extension of the time periods foreseen in the Commitments; or
(ii)
waive, modify or substitute, in exceptional circumstances, one or more of the
conditions or obligations in these Commitments.
43. Where J&J seeks an extension of a time period, it shall submit a request to the
Commission no later than one (1) month before the expiry of that period, showing good
cause. Only in exceptional circumstances shall J&J be entitled to request an extension
within the last month of any period.
A07158417
12


Non-Confidential Version
44. If the approval of the J&J/PCH merger by another antitrust authority is made subject to
requirements that (i) are potentially inconsistent with these Commitments or (ii) would,
when combined with the obligations in these Commitments, result in the divestiture of
assets or businesses beyond that which is necessary to maintain or restore effective
competition in the EEA, J&J may request a review and adjustment of these Commitments
in order to avoid such inconsistencies or obligations beyond those necessary to restore
effective competition.
Name: [CONFIDENTIAL]
Title: [CONFIDENTIAL]
for and on behalf of Johnson & Johnson
Date: 6 December 2006
A07158417
13


Non-Confidential Version
Case No COMP/M.4314 - J&J/Pfizer Consumer Healthcare
Nicotine Patch Commitment
Global Nicotine Patch Business
Schedule
1.
This Divestment Business consists of the worldwide assets and personnel directly and
predominantly associated with the manufacture and supply of ALZA's transdermal nicotine
patch (the "Global Nicotine Patch Business"). The ALZA transdermal nicotine patch products
will be referred to hereafter as the "Nicotine Patch Products".
2.
Following paragraph 6 of the J&J Commitments, the Global Nicotine Patch Business
includes but is not limited to:
(a) 
the following main tangible assets:
(i)
ALZA's inventory of finished Nicotine Patch Products.
(ii)
[CONFIDENTIAL]
(iii)
At the option of the Purchaser, all production equipment necessary for the
manufacture of Nicotine Patch Products ("Major Equipment"), as listed in the attached
Annex 2.
(iv)
At the option of the Purchaser, all other equipment, ancillary to the Major Equipment,
used in the manufacture of the Nicotine Patch Products.
(v)
Copies of all technical files and drawings, product and production specifications,
manufacturing process descriptions, packaging specifications, quality control
documents, stability reports, validation documents and other regulatory records. These
technical files are listed at Annex 3.
(vi)
Copies of all data results and records of clinical trials relevant to the Nicotine Patch
Products.
(vii)
Copies of all books, ledgers and other business records related to the Global Nicotine
Patch Business.
(viii) Copies of any and all other materials that are specific to the Nicotine Patch Products.
(b) the following main intangible assets, to the extent they are owned or licensed by ALZA:
(i)
The assignment of all relevant trademarks insofar as owned by ALZA. These are listed
in Annex 4.
(ii)
The grant of a perpetual and irrevocable licence to use any intellectual property rights
(including patents, patent applications, technology, trade secrets, inventions and
know-how) which ALZA currently holds and uses in connection with the Nicotine Patch
Products, as listed in Annex 5 (the "Licensed Technology"). This licence shall be
exclusive with respect to transdermal patch formulations of nicotine or nicotine in
combination with other compounds and non-exclusive with respect to transdermal
patch formulations of any other compound. This licence shall include the right to
sublicense. Both the exclusive and non-exclusive licences are subject to any pre-
existing third party rights (e.g., as a result of patent settlements, or licences to other
parties) at the Effective Date and the non-exclusive licence excludes use for products
A07183995
1


Non-Confidential Version
that ALZA, or an affiliated undertaking, has commercialised, itself or through a
commercial partner, or has in active development at the Effective Date. For the
avoidance of doubt, J&J shall continue to have the right to exploit the Licensed
Technology for any purposes other than the development, manufacture and supply of
transdermal nicotine patches (including the right to grant licences for any fields of use
other than transdermal nicotine patches).
(iii) The grant of a perpetual, irrevocable and non-exclusive right to use any improvements
(including under patents and know-how) relating to the Licensed Technology which
arise up to the date of Closing. Such rights are subject to pre-existing third party rights
and the same exclusions apply as under (ii). For the avoidance of doubt, J&J shall
continue to have the right to exploit the Licensed Technology for any purposes other
than the development, manufacture and supply of transdermal nicotine patches
(including the right to grant licences for any fields of use other than transdermal
nicotine patches).
(c)
To the extent legally transferable (by way of assignment or licence), all licences, permits and
other governmental authorisations and registrations [CONFIDENTIAL]and others relating
predominantly to the Global Nicotine Patch Business. If such licences, permits,
authorisations or registrations are not legally transferable or do not predominantly relate to
the Nicotine Patch Products, J&J (or an Affiliated Undertaking) shall reasonably assist the
Purchaser in obtaining the necessary licences, permits, authorisations or registrations or
other approvals in connection with the Purchaser operating [CONFIDENTIAL]. The licences
which ALZA currently holds are listed in Annex 6.
(d)
At the option of the Purchaser, the assignment of ALZA's contracts (or portions thereof) with
suppliers of raw materials for the manufacture of the Nicotine Patch Products, to the extent
they are assignable. If such contracts are not automatically assignable, in whole or in part,
ALZA shall use reasonable efforts to obtain consent to assign or shall introduce the
Purchaser to the relevant supplier in order that a new supply agreement may be entered
into. If ALZA is unable to obtain consent to assign an agreement and the Purchaser is
unable to enter into a new agreement, ALZA shall enter into a back-to-back arrangement,
under the existing supply agreement, with the Purchaser in order to enable the Purchaser to
procure the relevant raw material. These supply contracts are listed in Annex 7.
(e)
To the extent legally assignable, assignment of the relevant agreements with downstream
customers (GSK, Sanofi-Aventis, PCH), as listed in Annex 8. If such contracts are not
assignable without consent of the other party, ALZA shall make reasonable efforts to obtain
such consent. Absent such consent, J&J shall cause ALZA to enter into a supply
arrangement with the Purchaser whereby ALZA shall source the Nicotine Patch Products
from the Purchaser on a reasonable cost plus basis to be agreed with the Purchaser and
shall continue to supply such products to the relevant customer. J&J shall cause ALZA to
renounce certain of its rights under the GSK Distribution Agreement (but not the rights of any
of its assignees) and enter into additional obligations, for as long as ALZA remains a party to
that agreement (that is until Closing). These supplemental waivers and obligations are set
out in Annex 12. For the avoidance of doubt, Annex 12 shall only apply to ALZA and does
not apply to the assignee of the GSK Distribution Agreement.
(f)
The Personnel, which are located at Cashel, as further specified in Annex 9. J&J shall not
solicit those Personnel located at Cashel during the Transitional Period. Those Personnel
listed in Annex 9, which are located at Vacaville shall be made available for transfer. This
means that J&J shall cause ALZA to provide the Purchaser with the opportunity to enter into
A07183995
2


Non-Confidential Version
employment contracts with such staff, (b) not interfere with the Purchaser's hiring,
employing, or contracting of such staff, (c) remove any impediments within the control of
ALZA that may deter such staff from accepting an employment relationship with the
Purchaser, and (d) eliminate any provisions of any relevant employment contracts with ALZA
that have the potential to interfere with such employees' ability to perform work related to the
Nicotine Patch Products.'
(g) J&J shall cause ALZA to incentivise (in accordance with normal business practices) the Key
Personnel [CONFIDENTIAL], as listed in Annex 10A, to continue employment with the
Purchaser. At the option of the Purchaser, J&J shall cause ALZA to incentivise (in
accordance with normal business practices) the other Personnel, as listed in Annex 10B, to
take up employment with the Purchaser.
(h) Any R&D assets (excluding intellectual property: this is dealt with in Section 2(b)(ii) and (iii)
above) predominantly associated with the Global Nicotine Patch Business (under the form of
a non-exclusive licence if those assets pertain also to other ALZA products), in particular, to
the extent legally transferable, any rights to development projects with regard to the Nicotine
Patch Products, whether they are finished or still ongoing up to the date of full transfer of the
worldwide manufacturing.
(i) At the request of the Purchaser, J&J shall cause ALZA to make available several of the
ALZA employees and former employees who are, or were, primarily dedicated to research
and development as regards ALZA's D-TRANS transdermal patch technology platform to
take up employment with the Purchaser. The titles of those R&D employees are listed at
Annex 11.
(j) 
For the avoidance of doubt, the Global Nicotine Patch Business shall not include:
(i)
Ancillary manufacturing equipment that is customised for the particular configuration
of, and "built-in" to either the Vacaville or Cashel manufacturing facility
([CONFIDENTIAL]). As regards such equipment, J&J shall cause ALZA to use
reasonable efforts to assist the Purchaser to purchase any new equipment required.
(ii)
Ancillary manufacturing equipment that is shared with other manufacturing lines in
ALZA's Vacaville or Cashel manufacturing facilities and cannot be transferred,
including laboratory, warehouse, facilities, calibration and information management
equipment ([CONFIDENTIAL]). Such equipment is commonly found and used in
most existing pharmaceutical manufacturing enterprises, or would be built into any
new facility. J&J shall cause ALZA to use reasonable efforts to assist the Purchaser
to purchase any new equipment required.
(iii)
The right to use the ALZA or J&J names and logos of any affiliate in the Johnson &
Johnson Family of Companies.
(k) 
In the event that materials to be transferred contain information that is confidential to J&J's
retained businesses, these shall be redacted as appropriate.
3.
J&J commits that the assets to be transferred are sufficient for the Purchaser to operate the
divested business as a viable and independent business.
4.
J&J shall cause ALZA to provide the following transitional supply and technical assistance
services during a period of [CONFIDENTIAL] years from Closing. This period can be
I For the avoidance of doubt, this does not include the waiver of confidentiality provisions set out in the employment
contracts to the extent that those relate to other confidential J&J information.
A07183995
3


Non-Confidential Version
extended by the Monitoring Trustee until such time that the Purchaser has established the
Global Nicotine Patch Business as a viable and independent business at premises
independent from J&J/ALZA, as certified by the Monitoring Trustee (the 'Transitional
Period").
(i)
J&J shall cause ALZA to provide technical assistance (including appropriate training
of the Purchaser's employees) required by the Purchaser regarding the
construction, installation, qualification and validation of suitable manufacturing
equipment and facilities, on a reasonable cost plus basis to be agreed with the
Purchaser.
(ii)
J&J shall cause ALZA to provide the Purchaser with contract manufacturing services
for the Purchaser's requirements of the Nicotine Patch Products on terms consistent
with the principles set out in Annex 13 for the Transitional Period.
5.
J&J shall comply with the Firewall Principles in Annex 14 for the duration of the Transitional
Period.
6.
The transitional technical assistance agreement referred to above shall include appropriate
provisions designed to incentivise J&J to provide technical assistance to the Purchaser
expeditiously. These provisions may include terms whereby the price payable by the
Purchaser for technical assistance is reduced over time. J&J shall cause ALZA to carry out
the technical assistance for the technology transfer in accordance with good industry
practice including as regards the timing and responsiveness with which this assistance is
provided throughout the different stages of the transfer.
7.
The transitional technical assistance agreement and the transitional supply arrangements
referred to above shall include the Fast Track Resolution Procedure provisions set out in the
J&J Commitments and will be subject to the supervision of the Monitoring Trustee for as long
as these agreements remain in place.
8.
At the option of the Purchaser, J&J shall cause ALZA to conduct R&D for the Purchaser in
order to develop improvements to the Nicotine Patch Products on a reasonable cost plus
basis to be agreed with the Purchaser following Closing for a period of [CONFIDENTIAL]
years.
9.
With regard to the Purchaser Requirements referred to in paragraph 18 of the J&J
Commitments, it is further specified that the Purchaser must have:
(i)
sufficient capability to supply products that are marketed as branded products in the
pharmaceutical sector; and
(ii)
sufficient capability to receive the Licensed Technology and, having regard to the
resources transferred pursuant to these Commitments, to further develop or have
developed, such Technology.
A07183995
4


Non-Confidential Version
Case No COMP/M.4314 - J&J/Pfizer Consumer Healthcare
Annex 1 to the Global Nicotine Patch Business Commitment
[CONFIDENTIAL]
[CONFIDENTIAL]
A07183995
1


Non-Confidential Version
Case No COMP/M.4314 - J&J/Pfizer Consumer Healthcare
Annex 2 to the Global Nicotine Patch Business Commitment
Major Equipment
Overview of the manufacturing process
The ALZA nicotine patch manufacturing process consists of three main processes: extrusion,
converting and pouching. Through the extrusion process, nicotine and polymer are mixed in an
inert, temperature controlled environment and extruded and calendered between plastic films. The
resulting laminate is then wound onto rolls. The converting line laminates the adhesive onto
rollstock, slits and laminates the liner, treats and prints the patches, die-cuts the patches into the
final size and rewinds the patches onto spools. Finally, the pouching line feeds the patches from
the spools, cuts the liner to separate the individual patches, prints the lot and expiration date on
the pouch stock, seals the systems in the pouch stock and cuts the pouches to their final size.
The nicotine patches are supplied as pouch stock to the customer.
Major Equipment
The Major Equipment comprises three equipment lines in total for the manufacture of nicotine
patches. The three equipment lines are made up of three extruders, two convertors, four pouchers
and an isolator. Further details are provided below. Currently, two equipment lines suffice in order
to cover the worldwide supply of ALZA nicotine patches.
ALZA manufactures the Nicotine Patch Products at two sites: Vacaville, California, U.S.A. and
Cashel, Ireland. Neither of these plants are dedicated to the manufacture of nicotine patches.
Cashel
At Cashel, there is one equipment line, which consists of:
•
One extruder, which has the capacity to manufacture [CONFIDENTIAL] million patches per
year.
•
One convertor, 2 which has a capacity of [CONFIDENTIAL] million patches per year.
•
One poucher, with the capacity to process [CONFIDENTIAL] million patches per year.
•
An isolator, which is used, in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements, to protect
operators sampling nicotine from chemical hazard.
Vacaville
At Vacaville, there are two equipment lines. These comprise:
•
Two extruders, each with the capacity to manufacture [CONFIDENTIAL] million patches per
year.
•
One convertor, 3 which currently has a capacity of [CONFIDENTIAL] million patches per year
and processes the output of both Vacaville extruders.4
2 [CONFIDENTIAL]
A07183995
1


Non-Confidential Version
•
Three pouching lines, each of which has the capacity to manufacture [CONFIDENTIAL]
million patches per year. (While only two pouching lines are required to meet current
worldwide volumes, ALZA also commits to transfer an additional pouching line, if the
Purchaser so requests.)
•
There are no regulatory requirements for an isolator to be used at Vacaville. Instead,
operators handling nicotine wear special protective suits to protect them from chemical
hazard.
3 [CONFIDENTIAL]
4 [CONFIDENTIAL]
A07183995
2


Non-Confidential Version
Case No COMP/M.4314 - J&J/Pfizer Consumer Healthcare
Annex 3 to the Global Nicotine Patch Business Commitment
Technical Files
Manufacturing Facility
Proprietary information regarding specialised facility configurations, as required by the Purchaser.
Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients & Critical / Novel Excipients
Information regarding the raw materials used to manufacture the Nicotine Patch Products,
including:
•
Manufacturing Sites
•
List of Components and Quality/Grades
•
Vendor Specifications and Quality Requirements
•
Analytical Test Methods & Test Method Validation
•
Certificates of Analysis
•
Reference Standards
•
Stability and Expiration Dating Information (if applicable)
•
Compendial, Regulatory, and Internal Specifications
•
Analytical and Microbiological Summary Report with Historical Data
•
Component Supplier/Site Qualification (if applicable)
•
Component Storage and Handling
Drug Product & Manufacturing
Information regarding the finished Nicotine Patch Product and its manufacture, including:
•
Quantitative Composition / Formulation of Drug Product
•
Description of Production and Packaging Processes / Equipment Train
•
Process Flow Diagrams
•
Description of Software driven Controls
•
Batch Records (Master Formulas and Associated Forms)
•
In Process Controls, Test Methods, and Limits
•
Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) for Manufacturing
•
Critical Parameters and Historical Capabilities
•
Maximum Allowable Hold Times
•
Equipment Description
A07183995
1


Non-Confidential Version
•
Intermediate Storage Conditions
•
Bulk Storage and Handling Conditions
•
Cleaning Procedures, Test Methods, and Validations
•
Microbial Cleaning Assessment
•
Process Validations
•
Bio – Batch Data
•
Drug Product Specifications
•
Analytical and Microbiological Test Methods and Validations
•
Historical Test Results Summary
•
Certificates of Analyses
Information regarding the packaging used for the Nicotine Patch Product, including:
•
Schematics
•
Rationale for packaging
•
Materials of Construction
•
Specifications and Test Methods
•
Compatibility and Stability Reports
Drug Product Stability
The following stability studies and reports:
•
Shipping Studies
•
Historical and Current Stability Reports
•
Degradation Pathways
•
Stability Specifications
•
Stability Test Methods and Validation
A07183995
2


Non-Confidential Version
Case No COMP/M.4314 - J&J/Pfizer Consumer Healthcare
Annex 4 to the Global Nicotine Patch Business Commitment
Trademarks
ALZA does not own, or have any rights or licence to the Nicoderm or NiQuitin trademarks
anywhere in the world. These trademarks are owned by the downstream marketing partners
Sanofi-Aventis, GSK and PCH, or by third parties. ALZA owns, and commits to transfer, the
Nicabate trademark, as registered in the following countries:
•
China, Peoples Republic (PRC)
•
European Union
•
Iceland
•
India
•
Japan
•
Norway
•
Romania
•
Russian Federation (formerly USSR)
•
Serbia/Montenegro
•
Switzerland
A07183995
1


Non-Confidential Version
Case No COMP/M.4314 - J&J/Pfizer Consumer Healthcare
Annex 5 to the Global Nicotine Patch Business Commitment
Intellectual Property
ALZA Patents
The patents listed below are the main patents owned by ALZA, issued or pending for each patent
family relating to the Nicotine Patch Products. Equivalent patents in other jurisdictions will also be
licensed in order to give the Purchaser the full worldwide rights for nicotine patches.
Patent family
number
Status
Expiry
date 
Owner
Title and Field
EP1140039A1
Pending5
13/12/19
ALZA
Transparent transdermal nicotine delivery
devices.
A transparent transdermal delivery device
for 
delivering 
nicotine 
which 
has 
an
Opacity Index of less than 48.6%.
EP0525105B1
Granted
11/02/11
ALZA
Polvisobutylene 
adhesives 
for
transdermal devices.
Invention 
pertains 
to 
polyisobutylene
(PIB) adhesives 
useful 
in transdermal
drug delivery systems.
EP0506860B1
Granted
16/12/10
ALZA
Nicotine packaging materials.
Invention 
pertains 
to 
materials 
and
methods for the manufacture of nicotine
storage pouches.
EPO427741B1
Granted
12/06/09
ALZA
Subsaturated 
transdermal 
delivery
device.
Invention relates to transdermal delivery
devices intended to deliver biologically
active 
agents 
through 
skin 
at
substantially constant rates for extended
periods of time and more particularly to
such devices in which the active agent to
be delivered is present in the device at a
concentration below saturation.
5 Patents within this family have been granted outside of the EU.
A07183995
1


Non-Confidential Version
Patent family
number
Status
Expiry
date
Owner
Title and Field
Subsaturated 
transdermal 
therapeutic
system 
having 
improved 
release
characteristics
Invention relates to medical devices in
the form of transdermal delivery devices
US5342623
Granted
02/04/08
ALZA
intended 
to 
deliver 
biologically 
active
agents 
through 
skin 
at 
substantially
constant rates for extended periods of
time 
and 
more 
particularly 
to 
such
systems 
which 
utilize 
rate 
controlling
membranes and in-line adhesives.
Third Party Patents
In addition, ALZA benefits from certain covenants on the part of third parties not to sue in
connection with certain patents. Where such protection does not automatically extend to ALZA's
licensees, J&J shall use reasonable efforts to ensure that the Purchaser is afforded equivalent
protection in this regard. Where such covenants are mutual, this may involve a commitment on the
part of the Purchaser not to sue the relevant third party of certain of the ALZA patents.
Details of the relevant third parties and patent numbers are as follows:
[CONFIDENTIAL]
Other intellectual property rights
ALZA will transfer all proprietary information necessary to manufacture the Nicotine Patch
Products, including all relevant content from the ALZA Master Index, which contains details of the
methods, formulae, instructions, advisories and analytical tools relating to ALZA's products
together with all those materials listed in Annex 3.
J&J represents and warrants that the intellectual property, as defined in the Schedule and further
specified in this Annex, is sufficient to run the divested business as a viable and independent
business.
A07183995
2


Non-Confidential Version
Case No COMP/M.4314 - J&J/Pfizer Consumer Healthcare
Annex 6 to the Global Nicotine Patch Business Commitment
Licences and permits
The licences and permits required by the Purchaser in order to manufacture the Nicotine Patch
Products are the same as those generally required to manufacture any other pharmaceutical
product, and will vary according to the location of the Purchaser's manufacturing plant.
By way of indication of the type of authorisation that is generally required, Vacaville is licensed
under a Drug Manufacturing License, issued by the State of California, Department of Health
Services, Food and Drug Branch and is also registered as Drug Establishment by the Food and
Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services. Cashel operates under a
Manufacturer's Licence and a Certificate of Good Manufacturing Practice Compliance of a
Manufacturer, both issued by the Irish Medicines Board. ALZA is also licensed at Cashel to hold
an inventory of a controlled substance and to manufacture using a controlled substance. In
addition, it holds an integrated pollution control license, issued by the Environmental Protection
Agency. [CONFIDENTIAL] which carries out chemical and microbiological analysis of starting
materials, raw materials, finished products and water on behalf of ALZA is authorised under an
Quality Control Laboratory Approval, also issued by the Irish Medicines Board.
The above licences and permits are not legally transferable. Therefore, J&J shall cause ALZA to
use reasonable efforts to assist the Purchaser to obtain necessary licences and permits, which
may be required.
A07183995
1


Non-Confidential Version
Case No COMP/M.4314 - J&J/Pfizer Consumer Healthcare
Annex 7 to the Global Nicotine Patch Business Commitment
Supplier Contracts
There are [CONFIDENTIAL] supply contracts. ALZA shall employ reasonable efforts to ensure that
the Purchaser is able to source the relevant products from these suppliers.
Contract 
Summary
[CONFIDENTIAL]
A07183995
2


Non-Confidential Version
Case No COMP/M.4314 - J&J/Pfizer Consumer Healthcare
Annex 8 to the Global Nicotine Patch Business Commitment
Customer Contracts
Contract 
Summary
[CONFIDENTIAL]
A07183995
1


Non-Confidential Version
Case No COMP/M.4314 - J&J/Pfizer Consumer Healthcare
Annex 9 to the Global Nicotine Patch Business Commitment
Personnel List
Cashel Personnel
Name 
Function
[CONFIDENTIAL]
Vacaville Personnel
Name 
Function
[CONFIDENTIAL]
A07183995
1


Non-Confidential Version
Case No COMP/M.4314 - J&J/Pfizer Consumer Healthcare
Annex 10 to the Global Nicotine Patch Business Commitment
Key Personnel
A. [CONFIDENTIAL] Key Personnel
[CONFIDENTIAL]
B. Other Personnel to be incentivised
For the avoidance of doubt, the Personnel below are not required for the viability of the Global
Nicotine Patch Business. However, J&J shall, at the option of the Purchaser, cause ALZA to
undertake the incentive efforts set out in the Schedule with respect to Key Personnel.
[CONFIDENTIAL]
A07183995
1


Non-Confidential Version
Case No COMP/M.4314 - J&J/Pfizer Consumer Healthcare
Annex 11 to the Global Nicotine Patch Business Commitment
R&D Personnel
[CONFIDENTIAL]
A07183995
1


Non-Confidential Version
Case No COMP/M.4314 - J&J/Pfizer Consumer Healthcare
Annex 12 to the Global Nicotine Patch Business Commitment
Supplemental provisions to GSK Distribution Agreement
J&J shall cause ALZA to comply with the following provisions for as long as ALZA remains party to
the GSK Distribution Agreement (which is until Closing). In the event of conflict between the terms
of the agreement and the provisions below, the latter shall prevail:
[CONFIDENTIAL]
The compliance with these principles, as well as with the terms of the GSK Distribution Agreement,
for as long as it remains in place, shall be subject to the supervision of the Monitoring Trustee.
A07183995
1


Non-Confidential Version
Case No COMP/M.4314 - J&J/Pfizer Consumer Healthcare
Annex 13 to the Global Nicotine Patch Business Commitment
Supply Agreement Principles
•
The supply agreement will cover the Nicotine Patches. The agreement will include
appropriate provisions allowing the Purchaser to withdraw specific Nicotine Patch Products
from the scope of the agreement, thus allowing it to self-manufacture once it is in a position
to do so.
•
During the Transitional Period, ALZA will sell Nicotine Patches to the Purchaser on a
reasonable cost-plus margin basis. Cost shall be defined in accordance with Generally
Acceptable Accounting Principles and negotiated by J&J or ALZA and the Purchaser at a
level consistent with standard industry practice; the margin shall be set at a discount to
standard industry practice.
•
ALZA shall be required to provide support to the Purchaser on a reasonable cost plus basis
in its application for product approval from the competent regulatory bodies, and in particular
shall provide to the Purchaser or the regulatory body such information as is requested by
that body.
•
The supply agreement shall include appropriate provisions with regard to regulatory
compliance.
•
The Purchaser shall be required to send ALZA non-binding twelve (12) month rolling
monthly forecasts of its reasonably expected requirements for Nicotine Patch Products (firm
and binding as to the next two months). If, for any reason (e.g. production shortages or
events akin to force majeure), ALZA is unable to meet the Purchaser's requirements of
Nicotine Patch Products, J&J shall allocate deliveries of that product to the Purchaser in the
proportion that represents [CONFIDENTIAL]% of the proportion that prevailed between
ALZA and the Purchaser on average during the [CONFIDENTIAL] preceding completed
quarters.
•
The supply agreement shall include appropriate provisions with regard to ALZA building and
keeping an adequate safety stock of products at all times during the duration of the
transitional supply agreement. The Monitoring Trustee may recommend appropriate safety
stock levels to ensure security of supply, or if necessary, such additional supply-related
measures as may be reasonably needed to ensure that product is available to the
Purchaser.
•
The Purchaser may terminate the supply agreement at its discretion on [CONFIDENTIAL]
notice.
•
Delivery of the Nicotine Patches will be made in a timely manner and according to a pre-
defined schedule, in line with standard industry practice.
A07183995
1


Non-Confidential Version
Case No COMP/M.4314 - J&J/Pfizer Consumer Healthcare
Annex 14 to the International Nicotine Patch Commitment
Firewall Principles
•
J&J shall implement firewalls which will prevent, during the Transitional Period, any
exchange, communication or flow of Confidential Information, as defined below, between
ALZA and the Consumer Division of J&J (where the Pfizer Consumer Healthcare nicotine
patch business shall be held).
•
Confidential Information means all information that is not in the public domain relating to the
research, technology, development, manufacture, marketing, commercialisation, distribution,
cost, pricing, supply, sales, or use of nicotine patch products or other nicotine replacement
products manufactured, sold or in development. ALZA Confidential Information means all
Confidential Information pertaining to the ALZA Nicotine Patch Business subject to this
remedy. PCH Confidential Information means all Confidential Information pertaining to the
Pfizer Consumer Healthcare nicotine replacement products acquired by J&J.
•
J&J will submit to the Monitoring Trustee within two weeks of the appointment of the latter,
suitable proposals for firewalls between ALZA and the Consumer Division. These proposals
will include confidentiality agreements (the terms of which shall be subject to the approval of
the Monitoring Trustee), IT arrangements regarding access and storage of information,
monitoring mechanisms, procedures for release, change of positions, reporting lines etc.
A07183995
2


Non-Confidential Version
Case No COMP/M.4314 - J&J/Pfizer Consumer Healthcare
Nicotine Patch Commitment
International Nicotine Patch Business
Schedule
1.
This Divestment Business consists of the assets and personnel directly and predominantly
associated with the manufacture and supply of ALZA's transdermal nicotine patch for sale to
the whole world with the exception of the U.S., Canada and Korea (the "International
Territory"). Those products will be referred to hereafter as the "Nicotine Patch Products".
2.
Following paragraph 6 of the Commitments, the International Nicotine Patch Business
includes but is not limited to:
(a) 
the following main tangible assets:
(i)
ALZA's inventory of finished Nicotine Patch Products attributable to the
International Nicotine Patch Business.
(ii)
[CONFIDENTIAL]
(iii)
At the option of the Purchaser, all production equipment necessary for the
manufacture of Nicotine Patch Products ("Major Equipment") attributable to the
International Nicotine Patch Business, as listed in the attached Annex 2.
(iv)
At the option of the Purchaser, all other equipment, ancillary to the Major
Equipment, used in the manufacture of the Nicotine Patch Products attributable to
the International Nicotine Patch Business.
(v)
Copies of all technical files and drawings, product and production specifications,
manufacturing process descriptions, packaging specifications, quality control
documents, stability reports, validation documentation and other regulatory
records, relating to the International Nicotine Patch Business. These technical files
are listed at Annex 3.
(vi)
Copies of all data results and records of clinical trials relevant to the Nicotine Patch
Products attributable to the International Nicotine Patch Business.
(vii)
Copies of all books, ledgers and other business records related to the International
Nicotine Patch Business.
(viii)
Copies of any and all other materials that are specific to the Nicotine Patch
Products attributable to the International Nicotine Patch Business.
(b) 
the following main intangible assets, to the extent they are owned or licensed by ALZA:
(i)
The assignment of all relevant trademarks owned by ALZA attributable to the
International Nicotine Patch Business. These are listed in Annex 4.
(ii)
The grant of a perpetual and irrevocable licence to use in the International Territory,
any intellectual property rights (including patents, patent applications, technology,
trade secrets, inventions and know-how) which ALZA currently holds and uses in
connection with the Nicotine Patch Products, as listed in Annex 5 (the "Licensed
Technology"). This licence shall be exclusive with respect to transdermal patch
A07183930
1


Non-Confidential Version
formulations of nicotine or nicotine in combination with other compounds and non-
exclusive with respect to transdermal patch formulations of any other compound.
This licence shall include the right to sublicense. Both the exclusive and non-
exclusive licences are subject to any pre-existing third party rights (e.g., as a result
of patent settlements, or licenses to other parties) at the Effective Date and the
non-exclusive licence excludes use for products that ALZA, or an affiliated
undertaking, has commercialised, itself or through a commercial partner, or has in
active development at the Effective Date. For the avoidance of doubt, J&J shall
continue to have the right to exploit the Licensed Technology outside of the
International Territory and for any purposes other than the development,
manufacture and supply of transdermal nicotine patches (including the right to
grant licences for any fields of use other than transdermal nicotine patches).
(iii) The grant of a perpetual, irrevocable and non-exclusive right to use in the
International Territory, any improvements (including patents and know-how) relating
to the Licensed Technology which arise up to the date of Closing. Such rights are
subject to pre-existing third party rights and the same exclusions as under (ii). For
the avoidance of doubt, J&J shall continue to have the right to exploit the Licensed
Technology and improvements thereto outside of the International Territory and for
any purposes other than the development, manufacture and supply of transdermal
nicotine patches (including the right to grant licences for any fields of use other
than transdermal nicotine patches).
(c)
To the extent legally transferable (by way of assignment or licence), all licences, permits
and other governmental authorisations and registrations [CONFIDENTIAL] and others
relating predominantly to the International Nicotine Patch Business. If such licences,
permits, authorisations or registrations are not legally transferable or do not predominantly
relate to the Nicotine Patch Products, J&J (or an Affiliated Undertaking) shall reasonably
assist the Purchaser in obtaining the necessary licences, permits, authorisations or
registrations or other approvals in connection with the Purchaser operating
[CONFIDENTIAL]. The licences which ALZA currently holds are listed in Annex 6.
(d)
At the option of the Purchaser, the assignment of ALZA's contracts (or portions thereof)
with suppliers of raw materials for the manufacture of the Nicotine Patch Products sold in
the International Territory, to the extent they are assignable. If such contracts are not
assignable, in whole or in part, ALZA shall use reasonable efforts to obtain consent to
assign or shall introduce the Purchaser to the relevant supplier in order that a new supply
agreement may be entered into. If ALZA is unable to obtain consent to assign an
agreement and the Purchaser is unable to enter into a new agreement, ALZA shall enter
into a back-to-back arrangement, under the existing supply agreement, with the Purchaser
in order to enable the Purchaser to procure the relevant raw material. These supply
contracts are listed in Annex 7.
(e)
Assignment of the Transdermal Nicotine Product Distribution Agreement, dated
[CONFIDENTIAL], with GlaxoSmithKline ("GSK") (the "GSK Distribution Agreement"), as
described in Annex 8. [CONFIDENTIAL] the Agreement will only be assigned either to GSK
itself, or to a [CONFIDENTIAL] approved third party Purchaser. J&J shall cause ALZA to
renounce certain of its rights under the GSK Distribution Agreement (but not the rights of
any of its assignees) and enter into additional obligations, for as long as ALZA remains a
party to that agreement (that is until Closing). These supplemental waivers and obligations
A07183930
2


Non-Confidential Version
are set out in Annex 12. For the avoidance of doubt, Annex 12 shall only apply to ALZA
and does not apply to the assignee of the GSK Distribution Agreement.
The Personnel listed in Annex 9. J&J shall not solicit the Personnel during the Transitional
Period.
(g) J&J shall cause ALZA to incentivise (in accordance with normal business practices) the
Key Personnel [CONFIDENTIAL], as listed in Annex 10A, to continue employment with the
Purchaser. At the option of the Purchaser, J&J shall cause ALZA to incentivise (in
accordance with normal business practices) the other Personnel, as listed in Annex 10B, to
take up employment with the Purchaser.
(h) Any R&D assets (excluding intellectual property: this is dealt with in Section 2(b)(ii) and (iii)
above) predominantly associated with the International Nicotine Patch Business (under the
form of an non-exclusive licence if those assets pertain also to other ALZA products), in
particular, to the extent legally transferable, any rights to development projects with regard
to the Nicotine Patch Products, whether they are finished or still ongoing up to the date of
full transfer of the manufacturing.
(i) At the request of the Purchaser, J&J shall cause ALZA to make available several of the
ALZA employees and former employees who are, or were, primarily dedicated to research
and development as regards ALZA's D-TRANS transdermal patch technology plafform to
take up employment with the Purchaser. The titles of those R&D employees are listed at
Annex 11.
(j) 
For the avoidance of doubt, the International Nicotine Patch Business shall not include:
(i)
Ancillary manufacturing equipment that is customised for the particular
configuration of, and "built-in" to either the Vacaville or Cashel manufacturing
facility ([CONFIDENTIAL]). As regards such equipment J&J shall cause ALZA to
use reasonable efforts to assist the Purchaser to purchase any new equipment
required.
(ii)
Ancillary manufacturing equipment that is shared with other manufacturing lines in
ALZA's Vacaville or Cashel manufacturing facilities and cannot be transferred,
including laboratory, warehouse, facilities, calibration and information management
equipment ([CONFIDENTIAL]). Such equipment is commonly found and used in
most existing pharmaceutical manufacturing enterprises, or would be built into any
new facility. As regards such equipment, J&J will cause ALZA to use reasonable
efforts to assist the Purchaser to purchase any new equipment required.
(iii)
The right to use the ALZA or J&J name and logos of any affiliate in the Johnson &
Johnson Family of Companies.
(k) 
In the event that materials to be transferred contain information that is confidential to J&J's
retained businesses, these shall be redacted as appropriate.
3.
J&J commits that the assets to be transferred are sufficient for the Purchaser to operate
the divested business as a viable and independent business.
4.
J&J shall cause ALZA to provide the following transitional supply and technical assistance
services during a period of [CONFIDENTIAL] years from Closing. This period can be
extended by the Monitoring Trustee until such time that the Purchaser has established the
International Nicotine Patch Business as a viable and independent business at premises
A07183930
3


Non-Confidential Version
independent from J&J/ALZA, as certified by the Monitoring Trustee (the "Transitional
Period").
(i)
J&J shall cause ALZA to provide technical assistance (including appropriate
training of the Purchaser's employees) required by the Purchaser regarding the
construction, installation, qualification and validation of suitable manufacturing
equipment and facilities, on a reasonable cost plus basis to be agreed with the
Purchaser.
(ii)
J&J shall cause ALZA to provide back up supply as requested by the Purchaser, if
need be, and for quantities agreed between the parties on terms consistent with
the principles set out in Annex 13.
5.
J&J shall comply with the Firewall Principles in Annex 14 for the duration of the Transitional
Period referred to above.
6.
The transitional technical assistance agreement referred to above shall include appropriate
provisions designed to incentivise ALZA to provide technical assistance to the Purchaser
expeditiously. These provisions may include terms whereby the price payable by the
Purchaser for technical assistance is reduced over time. J&J shall cause ALZA to carry out
the technical assistance for the technology transfer in accordance with good industry
practice including as regards the timing and responsiveness with which this assistance is
provided through the different stages of the transfer.
7.
The transitional technical assistance agreement and the transitional supply arrangements,
referred to above shall include the Fast Track Resolution Procedure provisions set out in
the J&J Commitments and will be subject to the supervision of the Monitoring Trustee for
as long as these agreements remain in place.
8.
At the option of the Purchaser, J&J shall cause ALZA to conduct R&D for the Purchaser in
order to develop improvements to the Nicotine Patch Products, on a reasonable cost plus
basis to be agreed with the Purchaser, following Closing for a period of [CONFIDENTIAL]
years.
9.
[CONFIDENTIAL]
10.
With regard to the Purchaser Requirements referred to in paragraph 18 of the J&J
Commitments, it is further specified that the Purchaser must have:
(i)
sufficient capability to supply products that are marketed as branded products in
the pharmaceutical sector; and
(ii)
sufficient capability to receive the Licensed Technology and, having regard to the
resources transferred pursuant to these Commitments, to further develop or have
developed, such Technology.
A07183930
4


Non-Confidential Version
Case No COMP/M.4314 - J&J/Pfizer Consumer Healthcare
Annex 1 to the International Nicotine Patch Business Commitment
[CONFIDENTIAL]
[CONFIDENTIAL]
A07183930
5


Non-Confidential Version
Case No COMP/M.4314 - J&J/Pfizer Consumer Healthcare
Annex 2 to the International Nicotine Patch Business Commitment
Major Equipment
Overview of the manufacturing process
The ALZA nicotine patch manufacturing process consists of three main processes: extrusion,
converting and pouching. Through the extrusion process, nicotine and polymer are mixed in an
inert, temperature controlled environment and extruded and calendered between plastic films. The
resulting laminate is then wound onto rolls. The converting line laminates the adhesive onto
rollstock, slits and laminates the liner, treats and prints the patches, die-cuts the patches into the
final size and rewinds the patches onto spools. Finally, the pouching line feeds the patches from
the spools, cuts the liner to separate the individual patches, prints the lot and expiration date on
the pouch stock, seals the systems in the pouch stock and cuts the pouches to their final size.
The nicotine patches are supplied as pouch stock to the customer.
ALZA manufactures the Nicotine Patch Products at two sites: Vacaville, California, U.S.A. (which
has two dedicated production lines) and Cashel, Ireland (which has one dedicated production line).
Neither plant is dedicated to the manufacture of nicotine patches.
Major Equipment
The Major Equipment comprises two equipment lines for the manufacture of the Nicotine Patch
Products; one at Cashel and one at Vacaville. In total, this will comprise two extruders, one
convertor and two pouchers. If required under the regulations governing the Purchaser's
manufacturing facility, an isolator will also be included in the transfer.
•
Each extruder has the capacity to manufacture [CONFIDENTIAL] million patches per year.
•
The convertor has the capacity to process [CONFIDENTIAL] million patches per year.
The Cashel poucher has the capacity to process [CONFIDENTIAL] million patches per
year and the Vacaville poucher has the capacity to process [CONFIDENTIAL] million
patches per year.
•
An isolator is currently used at the Cashel plant, in accordance with applicable regulatory
requirements, to protect operators sampling nicotine from chemical hazard. There is no
such requirement at Vacaville, where operators handling nicotine wear special protective
suits for the same purpose.
A07183930
1


Non-Confidential Version
Case No COMP/M.4314 - J&J/Pfizer Consumer Healthcare
Annex 3 to the International Nicotine Patch Business Commitment
Technical Files
Manufacturing Facility
Proprietary information regarding specialised facility configurations, to the extent relating to the
International Nicotine Patch Business, as required by the Purchaser.
Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients & Critical / Novel Excipients
Information regarding the raw materials used to manufacture the Nicotine Patch Products,
including:
•
Manufacturing Sites
•
List of Components and Quality/Grades
•
Vendor Specifications and Quality Requirements
•
Analytical Test Methods & Test Method Validation
•
Certificates of Analysis
•
Reference Standards
•
Stability and Expiration Dating Information (if applicable)
•
Compendial, Regulatory, and Internal Specifications
•
Analytical and Microbiological Summary Report with Historical Data
•
Component Supplier/Site Qualification (if applicable)
•
Component Storage and Handling
Drug Product & Manufacturing
Information regarding the finished Nicotine Patch Product and its manufacture, including:
•
Quantitative Composition / Formulation of Drug Product
•
Description of Production and Packaging Processes / Equipment Train
•
Process Flow Diagrams
•
Description of Software driven Controls
•
Batch Records (Master Formulas and Associated Forms)
•
In Process Controls, Test Methods, and Limits
•
Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) for Manufacturing
•
Critical Parameters and Historical Capabilities
•
Maximum Allowable Hold Times
A07183930
1


Non-Confidential Version
•
Equipment Description
•
Intermediate Storage Conditions
•
Bulk Storage and Handling Conditions
•
Cleaning Procedures, Test Methods, and Validations
•
Microbial Cleaning Assessment
•
Process Validations
e.. 
Bio – Batch Data
•
Drug Product Specifications
•
Analytical and Microbiological Test Methods and Validations
•
Historical Test Results Summary
•
Certificates of Analyses
Information regarding the packaging used for the Nicotine Patch Products, including:
•
Schematics
•
Rationale for packaging
•
Materials of Construction
•
Specifications and Test Methods
Compatibility and Stability Reports
Drug Product Stability
•
The following stability studies and reports:
•
Shipping Studies
•
Historical and Current Stability Reports
•
Degradation Pathways
•
Stability Specifications
•
Stability Test Methods and Validation
A07183930
2


Non-Confidential Version
Case No COMP/M.4314 - J&J/Pfizer Consumer Healthcare
Annex 4 to the International Nicotine Patch Business Commitment
Trademarks
ALZA does not own, or have any rights or licence to the Nicoderm or NiQuitin trademarks
anywhere in the International Territory. These trademarks are owned by the downstream marketing
partner for the territory, GSK, or by third parties. Similarly, GSK owns the Nicabate trademark in
Australia and New Zealand. ALZA owns, and commits to transfer, the Nicabate trademark, as
registered in the following countries:
•
China, Peoples Republic (PRC)
•
European Union
•
Iceland
•
India
•
Japan
•
Norway
•
Romania
•
Russian Federation (formerly USSR)
•
Serbia/Montenegro
•
Switzerland
A07183930
1


Non-Confidential Version
Case No COMP/M.4314 - J&J/Pfizer Consumer Healthcare
Annex 5 to the International Nicotine Patch Business Commitment
Intellectual Property
ALZA Patents
The patents listed below are the main patents owned by ALZA, issued or pending, for each patent
family relating to the Nicotine Patch Products. Paragraph (b)(ii) of the Schedule shall apply with
respect to these patent families to the extent they relate to the International Territory. Therefore,
equivalent patents in other jurisdictions within the International Territory will also be licensed in
order to give the Purchaser full rights in the International Territory for nicotine patches.
Patent family
number
Status
Expiry
date 
Owner
Title and Field
EP1140039A1
Pending'
13/12/19
ALZA
Transparent transdermal nicotine delivery
devices.
A transparent transdermal delivery device
for 
delivering 
nicotine 
which 
has 
an
Opacity Index of less than 48.6%.
EP0525105B1
Granted
11/02/11
ALZA
Polyisobutylene 
adhesives 
for
transdermal devices.
Invention 
pertains 
to 
polyisobutylene
(PIB) adhesives 
useful 
in transdermal
drug delivery systems.
EP0506860B1
Granted
16/12/10
ALZA
Nicotine packaging materials.
Invention 
pertains 
to 
materials 
and
methods for the manufacture of nicotine
storage pouches.
EPO427741B1
Granted
12/06/09
ALZA
Subsaturated 
transdermal 
delivery
device.
Invention relates to transdermal delivery
devices intended to deliver biologically
active 
agents 
through 
skin 
at
substantially constant rates for extended
periods of time and more particularly to
such devices in which the active agent to
be delivered is present in the device at a
concentration below saturation.
Patents within this family have been granted outside of the EU.
A07183930
1


Non-Confidential Version
Patent family
number
Status
Expiry
date
Owner
Title and Field
Subsaturated 
transdermal 
therapeutic
system 
having 
improved 
release
characteristics
Invention relates to medical devices in
the form of transdermal delivery devices
US5342623
Granted
02/04/08
ALZA
intended 
to 
deliver 
biologically 
active
agents 
through 
skin 
at 
substantially
constant rates for extended periods of
time 
and 
more 
particularly 
to 
such
systems 
which 
utilize 
rate 
controlling
membranes and in-line adhesives.
Third Party Patents
In addition, ALZA benefits from certain covenants on the part of third parties not to sue in
connection with certain patents. Where such protection does not automatically extend to ALZA's
licensees, J&J shall use reasonable efforts to ensure that the Purchaser is afforded equivalent
protection in this regard in respect of the International Territory. Where such covenants are
mutual, this may involve a commitment on the part of the Purchaser not to sue the relevant third
party with regard to certain of the ALZA patents.
Details of the relevant third parties and patent numbers are as follows:
[CONFIDENTIAL]
Other intellectual property rights
ALZA will transfer all proprietary information necessary to manufacture Nicotine Patch Products,
including all relevant content from the ALZA Master index, which contains details of the methods,
formulae, instructions, advisories and analytical tools relating to ALZA's products together with all
those materials listed in Annex 3. J&J will use reasonable efforts to ensure that the Purchaser is
afforded equivalent protection in this regard.
J&J represents and warrants that the intellectual property, as defined in the Schedule and further
specified in this Annex, is sufficient to run the divested business as a viable and independent
business.
A07183930
2


Non-Confidential Version
Case No COMP/M.4314 - J&J/Pfizer Consumer Healthcare
Annex 6 to the International Nicotine Patch Business Commitment
Licences and permits
The licences and permits required by the Purchaser in order to manufacture the Nicotine Patch
Products are the same as those generally required to manufacture any other pharmaceutical
product, and will vary according to the location of the Purchaser's manufacturing plant.
By way of indication of the type of authorisation that is generally required, Vacaville is licensed
under a Drug Manufacturing License, issued by the State of California, Department of Health
Services, Food and Drug Branch and is also registered as Drug Establishment by the Food and
Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services. Cashel operates under a
Manufacturer's Licence and a Certificate of Good Manufacturing Practice Compliance of a
Manufacturer, both issued by the Irish Medicines Board. ALZA is also licensed at Cashel to hold
an inventory of a controlled substance and to manufacture using a controlled substance. In
addition, it holds an integrated pollution control license, issued by the Environmental Protection
Agency. [CONFIDENTIAL], which carries out chemical and microbiological analysis of starting
materials, raw materials, finished products and water on behalf of ALZA is authorised under an
Quality Control Laboratory Approval, also issued by the Irish Medicines Board.
The above licences and permits are not legally transferable. Therefore, J&.1 shall cause ALZA to
use reasonable efforts to assist the Purchaser to obtain the necessary licences and permits, which
may be required.
A07183930
1


Non-Confidential Version
Case No COMP/M.4314 - J&J/Pfizer Consumer Healthcare
Annex 7 to the International Nicotine Patch Business Commitment
Supplier Contracts
There are [CONFIDENTIAL] contracts. ALZA shall employ reasonable efforts to ensure that the
Purchaser is able to source the relevant products from these suppliers.
Contract 
Summary
[CONFIDENTIAL]
A07183930
2


Non-Confidential Version
Case No COMP/M.4314 - J&J/Pfizer Consumer Healthcare
Annex 8 to the International Nicotine Patch Business Commitment
Customer Contracts
Contract 
Summary
[CONFIDENTIAL]
A07183930
1


Non-Confidential Version
Case No COMP/M.4314 - J&J/Pfizer Consumer Healthcare
Annex 9 to the International Nicotine Patch Business Commitment
Personnel
Cashel Personnel
Name 
Function
[CONFIDENTIAL]
A07183930
1


Non-Confidential Version
Case No COMP/M.4314 - J&J/Pfizer Consumer Healthcare
Annex 10 to the International Nicotine Patch Business Commitment
Key Personnel
A. [CONFIDENTIAL]Key Personnel
[CONFIDENTIAL]
B. Other Personnel to be incentivised
For the avoidance of doubt the Personnel below are not required for the viability of the
International Nicotine Patch Business. However, J&J shall, at the option of the Purchaser, cause
ALZA to undertake the incentive efforts set out in the Schedule with respect to Key Personnel.
[CONFIDENTIAL]
A07183930
1


Non-Confidential Version
Case No COMP/M.4314 - J&J/Pfizer Consumer Healthcare
Annex 11 to the International Nicotine Patch Business Commitment
R&D
[CONFIDENTIAL]
A07183930
1


Non-Confidential Version
Case No COMP/M.4314 - J&J/Pfizer Consumer Healthcare
Annex 12 to the International Nicotine Patch Business Commitment
Supplemental provisions to GSK Distribution Agreement
J&J shall cause ALZA to comply with the following provisions for as long as ALZA remains party to
the GSK Distribution Agreement (which is until Closing). In the event of conflict between the terms
of the agreement and the provisions below, the latter shall prevail:
[CONFIDENTIAL]
( I) The compliance with these principles, as well as with the terms of the GSK Distribution
Agreement, for as long as it remains in place, shall be subject to the supervision of the
Monitoring Trustee.
A07183930
1


Non-Confidential Version
Case No COMP/M.4314 - J&J/Pfizer Consumer Healthcare
Annex 13 to the International Nicotine Patch Commitment
Supply Agreement Principles
•
The supply agreement will cover the Nicotine Patch Products. The agreement will include
appropriate provisions allowing the Purchaser to withdraw specific Nicotine Patch Products
from the scope of the agreement.
•
ALZA will sell Nicotine Patch Products to the Purchaser on a reasonable cost-plus margin
basis. Cost shall be defined in accordance with Generally Acceptable Accounting
Principles and negotiated by J&J or ALZA and the Purchaser at a level consistent with
standard industry practice; the margin shall be set at a discount to standard industry
practice.
•
ALZA shall be required to provide support to the Purchaser on a reasonable cost plus
basis in its application for product approval from the competent regulatory bodies, and in
particular shall provide to the Purchaser or the regulatory body such information as is
requested by that body.
•
The supply agreement shall include appropriate provisions with regard to regulatory
corn pliance.
•
The Purchaser shall be required to send ALZA non-binding twelve (12) month rolling
monthly forecasts of its reasonably expected requirements of Nicotine Patch Products (firm
and binding as to the next two months). If, for any reason (e.g. production shortages or
events akin to force majeure), ALZA is unable to meet the Purchaser's requirements of
Nicotine Patch Products, J&J shall allocate deliveries of that product to the Purchaser in
the proportion that represents [CONFIDENTIAL]% of the proportion that prevailed between
ALZA and the Purchaser on average during the [CONFIDENTIAL] preceding completed
quarters.
•
The supply agreement shall include appropriate provisions with regard to ALZA building
and keeping an adequate safety stock of products at all times during the duration of the
transitional supply agreement. The Monitoring Trustee may recommend appropriate safety
stock levels to ensure security of supply, or if necessary, such additional supply-related
measures as may be reasonably needed to ensure that product is available to the
Purchaser.
•
The Purchaser may terminate the supply agreement at its discretion on [CONFIDENTIAL]
notice.
•
Delivery of the Nicotine Patch Products will be made in a timely manner and according to a
pre-defined schedule, in line with standard industry practice.
A07183930
1


Non-Confidential Version
Case No COMP/M.4314 - J&J/Pfizer Consumer Healthcare
Annex 14 to the International Nicotine Patch Commitment
Firewall Principles
•
J&J shall implement firewalls which will prevent, during the 'Transitional Period", any
exchange, communication or flow of Confidential Information, as defined below, between
ALZA and the Consumer Division of J&J (where the Pfizer Consumer Healthcare nicotine
patch business shall be held).
•
Confidential Information means all information that is not in the public domain relating to
the research, technology, development, manufacture, marketing, commercialisation,
distribution, cost, pricing, supply, sales, or use of nicotine patch products or other nicotine
replacement products manufactured, sold or in development. ALZA Confidential
Information means all Confidential Information pertaining to the ALZA Nicotine Patch
Business subject to this remedy. PCH Confidential Information means all Confidential
Information pertaining to the Pfizer Consumer Healthcare nicotine replacement products
acquired by J&J.
•
J&J will submit to the Monitoring Trustee within two weeks of the appointment of the latter,
suitable proposals for firewalls between ALZA and the Consumer Division. These
proposals will include confidentiality agreements (the terms of which shall be subject to the
approval of the Monitoring Trustee, IT arrangements regarding access and storage of
information, monitoring mechanisms, procedures for release, change of positions,
reporting lines, etc.
A07183930
1


Schedule 2
Lofenoxal Sale
(a) 
The "Lofenoxal" trademark registered in Australia (Ref: 706695, Registered
from 17 April 1996).
(b) 
The copyright subsisting only in Australia in:
(i)
advertising and marketing materials used exclusively in respect of the
Lofenoxal brand;
(ii)
the packaging materials used exclusively in respect of the Lofenoxal
brand; and
(iii)
the composition and/or formula used exclusively in the manufacture of
Lofenoxal-branded products.
(c) 
Similar industrial, commercial and intellectual property subsisting in Australia
which is used exclusively in respect of the Lofenoxal brand.
(d) Any other assets possessed by J&J which relate exclusively to the Lofenoxal
brand in Australia and which the Approved Purchaser for the Lofenoxal Sale
requires for the conduct of the business in respect of the Lofenoxal brand.
(e) 
Customer lists for Lofenoxal-branded products.
(f) 
All relevant Therapeutic Goods Administration registrations and approvals
together with related licences.
page 24


Schedule 3
Lomotil Sale
(a) 
The "Lomotil" trademark registered in Australia (Ref: 157718, Registered from
29 December 1959).
(b) 
The domain name: lomotil.com.au
(c) 
The copyright subsisting only in Australia in:
(i)
advertising and marketing materials used exclusively in respect of the
Lomotil brand;
(ii)
the packaging materials used exclusively in respect of the Lomotil
brand; and
(iii)
the composition and/or formula used exclusively in the manufacture of
Lomotil -branded products.
(d) 
Similar industrial, commercial and intellectual property subsisting in Australia
which is used exclusively in respect of the Lomotil brand.
(e) Any other assets possessed by J&J which relate exclusively to the Lomotil
brand in Australia and which the Approved Purchaser for the Lomotil Sale
requires for the conduct of the business in respect of the Lomotil brand.
(f) 
Customer lists for Lomotil-branded products.
(g) 
All relevant Therapeutic Goods Administration registrations and approvals
together with related licences.
page 25


Schedule 4
Vermox Sale
(a) 
The "Vermox " trademark registered in Australia (Ref: 255522, Registered from
1 February 1972).
(b) 
The copyright subsisting only in Australia in:
(i)
advertising and marketing materials used exclusively in respect of the
Vermox brand;
(ii)
the packaging materials used exclusively in respect of the Vermox
brand; and
(iii)
the composition and/or formula used exclusively in the manufacture of
Vermox -branded products.
(c) 
Similar industrial, commercial and intellectual property subsisting in Australia
which is used exclusively in respect of the Vermox brand.
(d) 
A list of J&J's customers in Australia for the Vermox product.
(e) 
Any finished goods inventory of the Vermox product for sale in Australia held
by J&J on the date of completion of the Vermox Sale.
(f) 
Any contractual rights that relate exclusively to the Vermox brand and which
are capable of being assigned.
(g) 
All relevant data, books and records that relate exclusively to the Vermox
business in Australia and Vermox customers in Australia.
(h) 
All relevant Therapeutic Goods Administration registrations and approvals
together with related licences.
page 26


Schedule 5
Confidential
The Initial Sale Period is [CONFIDENTIAL].
1
page 27


Schedule 6
Pfizer Undertaking
page 28


Undertaking to the Australian Competition and
Consumer Commission pursuant to section 87B of the
Trade Practices Act 1974
Sy
Maw Inc
IF451012111411 IOW 20.12.406 
Page 1


1. 
Background
(tti 
Pfizer Ina (Man, * company Incorporated in Ordemsare, United Stelae of Adak* Is a
pharmacautical compary Whose sodas* are divided Into tivar badness segments
consumer healthcare; Oberman*** and animal health.
(b) On 25 June 2006, Piker Ind Ai entered kW a Stock and Abet Purcheee Afrumbilt ID
effect the Salt of the Pfizer Consumer Hesithowr &Vases to Johnson &Johnson (.144
included in the waste of that basins.; me the Intellsobed property end cOrdradual rights hi
rotation to the distrIbubon of the Wean end Lofenosiel brands to Austell* The fete Of the
Peter Consumer Healthcare Buskins in Austrello ail be effected under a separate
business twofer ;groomed In ecoordime wIth be terms of the Stock and Asset
Partials Agreement and shall be far the eats of Mete of the bastes! end not Worse In a
company.
(el 
In Its SeiteMeat of Neuss doted 22 No amber 2006, the Commission expressed the view
that the Proposed Acquiebon robes oompeddan concerns under Section 00 at the Ad
Relevantly for the purposes dills undertaking (the Piker jinderietingd, Me Commission
meowed concerned that the acquisitte by J&J of Pkier brands Lorncedi and LefenCeel
add teed to a lemming in compstidon In the market far morOcinse tir thelostment of
diarrhoea
(4) 
Without admission, J&J has eland an underbid%) to be Commission were the Intention
that ft vAll address the Camerae, oompstidon concerns Including In Welton to the
market for meddles for the treatment of an yhow (the 44,/ Undertaking).
(4) 
The JILI Underbids° includes an undertaking to wobble the Dersolitum Brand Sales
within the Iratisi Sale Period to a prospective purchaser vowed by 024* Colungsban
*Abused Prevhaserj. Ralevandy for the purposes of kis Pizor Underlaid/es this
includes the sole of the Loren*.* brand and the Loma brand which are described h the
*1 Undertaking W the Wended Selo and the Lomb Sale. In requiring the Lammed
ebb end the Lamest Sale, the Commission Is swift to ensure That those binds ore
acquired by en Approved Purareser capable of aimed% In the market for medicines for
the beatraleit of Minims, using lime bran* *Ana secured a source of supply.
(f) 
inferno* and Lome! ere currently mediated in Austral by PttirrAustais Pty UMW
vAilch le a wholly Owed Sabaldary of Pfizer.
(4) Womb* end WWII are rnanuboksed far end supplied to Mbar Meauliebeng Services
(a company incorporated In indend) by NPIL Phermef
tWords (UK) Limited (ll PC) under a
IlenufacturIng and Supply Agreement (the lift Agneenerst). Pfizer Awed* Ply UMW
obtain, its nequIrernents Of Wend* end Lomb for sale in Amnia through Pim IMO%
company milmatameita
The commaciel arrengemente which will be entered kW folowbg the Lomas and
Larenuxel Sales am unowtakt et thee edge. It is passible that the NPL Agreement Insofar
as it relates to Lamb end Lofencood wit be assigned to ALI or to an Approved Madmen
new arrangements may be entered Into batman J&J end NAIL, or an Approved Purchaser
and NPIL; or new arrangements may be ordered into between an sitsmedve supplier of
t—st'sA4 cotteahe4 150420 20.12.1016


Lorna* and Woad and JAI wen eltemettve suppler and Approved Purcheeen
Should no one Of these events occur, Pfizer tratertalcet On the tonna Wort below,*
011Sille oaaolno supply at Wroth end Later** for sel.ln Auetrale to an APprweed
Pixoheser, should this be mitered by an Appvcried Purchaser.
(I) 
Pflar hes Preferred the Peter Undertaking to the Convnieelon pursuant tiD Milan 878 of
the Ad.
2« 
Interpretation
DblinIttons
(e 
In elle dnountent, wards and phrases vital have the slime niewitng es In the .18J
Underteldng vides. monody &Mod In the Pier Undsdiking.
Glanatruction
(b) 
In the Interpretedon of a clause of the Flint Undattekingoa construction that would
promote the purpose or abject underlying the Pfizer Underteldng (whether that purpoee or
object Is expressly Meted In the Aker Undoteidng (Knot) shell be preferred * a
constnotion that would net promote that minor Or object. In the interpretation of this
Undedeldng, material whIdt does not ham that Of thie Undertaking, Including the
Cemmieelon's Statement of Issues dated 28 Nzvember2038. may be considered
(I) corium the muting oft delis, beds ordinary Meerdng conveyed by the %A Of
the dives taking Into s000unt Ito contort In the Undertaidng and the companion
Concerns intended to be addreeeld by the Undertredng end the douse In question;
Or
py 
dolmens the meaning of the dew when the *lathery meaning conveyed by the
text of the dew taking No account lbw tented In the UndertekIng and the
purpose or object underlying the Undedektng leads to I result that does not
promote the purpose or object underlying the Undertaking.
(I 
in detrangrang whether consideration should be ghee to any ineforthi h itecordence
eleues (b) or In ooneldedng wry welgtht to be gram to at such meter* regard shell be
had, In addition to eny other relevant mattes. to Use:
(I) effect that mime on the ordinary mono* convoyed by to teed of the dews
would hove (teldng Into account lie MOW In the Undertaking end whether *et
meanktg promo*, the purpose or object of the Undertaking); and
(11) 
the need to ensure Met two Undertaking Remotes crenpeddon•
op 
In pwforming its °begetter* under the now Undertaking, Maar will do everything
neesorsebly within Ito pow to *sure Oust Its performance dittos. oblate= *done In
enamor which Is consistent with promoting the purpose end object rifts Ptor
Undeneldng.
(4) 
Unless expressed tots coneary, In this document
(I) 
words in the singdarinolude the plural end mos VIM
Peps A01971122111•41 150420 212-100 
Pa.


(I1) 
Ifs word or phrase Os *dined its other grammatkel forms hew coniepondIng
meanings: and
(12) 
Include( Means Muds. without Imitallon.
(f) 
Lin** expresied b the contrary, in this document a reference to;
(i) 
a person InolUdes a perthereidp, joint vatufo, Unincorporated essocistion.
corporation and a government or abitulary body or authority:
(l) 
a Noon Intrudes the person's WO personal mprossalatives, successors, **Mane
and persons substituted by novation:
(IR) 
any tegitlefon Includes subonenate Isgbialbri under It and ins:ludo* that legislation
and subordirWre isgleistion se reveled or replecarg and
(Iv) en WOW isidudss *warranty or representation and a reference to a Munk to
corn* wIth urn °Milpitas Includes a beach ewe/rank cr representation.
Needinos do not affect the Interpretation of MIS ricioument.
3 
Ccunissnesnuont of Pew Undertaking
.71 Mar Undertaking cornea irto effect when the Maw Undeiteldna le executed by Piker and
eel:opted and mauled by the Cagnmission.
• 4. 
Ongoing supply undsdaktngai
(1 
Metal, lrt raquseted to by .16.1 pursuant to IV obigegon wider clause 24 of the ,15.1
Undertaking, Supply to the Approved Purchaser tie Approved Purchaser% total
mquirements of Lafenolad and Loma for sale by the approved Purchaser In Austrian.
(b4 Supply wit commence 'Agin 30 days of AU nips the request unions othinvieS *gold
with the Approved Purchaser.
(c) 
The cost of supply** Nos Approved Purchaser** be no greeter then Moses *stud costs
(Watt inducts the prim paid to NP1L and sty reasonable omits et delivery, but does not
body& any of Priest's Inborn* coals ma:10W with ananNament of ati010Y2
(dl Pfizer a* not, In any 12 month period, be smoked' to supply an amount of Lofenollid or
Unmet to It* Approved Purchaser, The *monad ought by the Approved Purchaser is
gloater than 17$ per cent of the total *Mow* of either pMduot squired a acid by Pfizer
Auer:ale Pty Lid (wMchaver la the peeler) h the 2005 calendar Oar.
Mere obigptIon to amply wl cease 2 yews from the datio 45.1 first request supply.
Notwithstanding poragraph (e). Pfizer** COMM. 1) supply Lofenoxel and Loma&
branded product to the Approved Purchaser on terms Warred to in paragraphs (o) and (d)
for a further 12 months OW the asptry of the two per period 2:
(i) 
Nos Approved Purdooser moots Its Months prior to the eorploy of the 2
par ;twist and
nallo MI IWO= tea 1604313 20.122001
Pop 4


(L) 
the meson for the Approved Purchsser's request le that It Is unable to
COMMON retailing Lefehoell and Lornottalrencied Product soumsd hen
an altomative some of supplyas a result of delay In obtaining the
masonry approvals ham the ThereoeutiO Goode AdmIrdstradon which
delay hi not caused by en sot or OreiellOn of the Approved Purchaser.
W) 
Pfbor will not be oblcod to commence supply under this clam Nine AI has provided to
Piker en Indemnity le respect of any psymant Phew may hen to nuke* NPIL (odor than
pernentS tOr goods gold and debated) Solely In connotation with the tavesitture of Wadi
end Whin** In Annie. The Indere* offered by tle,1 may be halted to pimento to
NM, the occurrence of *rich was NOM *NJ a renonable ems before the pyrite*
were Rode.
ot The obi tan accepted by Mar In dame d(e) above:
(t) 
may Inwin Phzer doing ell Varga whiten ps control, h•Oefiely to entree
he contractual rights under to NPIL Agreement; and
(a) 
is subject* ALI doing d things within tie moot neoessery to anon
Pfizer le able to comply Min the undertaking, including but net IkrtIed to
efloteleD sense to rights to Welke:kW property *set are required for Moo
to comply with the supply obligation.
St 
General
CibligatIon to procure
(4) 
Where the perfornoncie of en obligation under the Pager UndertiNng is impaired on Pim,
V complete perbmience of tha Paw Undertaking requires a MAIM Body Corporate of
Mar to OM some ation or relent trot Mktg some action, Paw wit prorate that
Related Body Corporate to take *et action or »tab from biking that action.
Obligation to provide the Commission with litfornation
Maw WV provide the Commission Wei all Inbrmation and tkomonoote !hot the, Commission
ritalOnobV rottlifros Earths WINO of monitoring °mobilo* with she Pfizer Undirtaidng.
(f) 
Pfizer will use Its beat endeavours to oompiy with any request for informstion ham the
COMMilei0o *Mkt 5 Business Days or ouch other period of Imo as may be agreed
between Pfizer and the COternieelon.
Except so required by Ow, the Conentesbn wal keep ooniciodist any kdonestion pentad
tot by Mast putitiont to Vas Prat 5witott is *smelled by Mow es conflOontird end the
Ceovnteelon WOOS Is confiderdle and we not Mabel the isms to any party without tai
written consent of Fixer.
fleyorobillty
oxj 
If for any meson • provision or provisions of the Paw Undotaidng are found to be
unlawful, Inned or wanton:sable. to the extent permitted by Ow, Ito remaining terns of
the Mir Undertaking iambi In fares.
goo AelPeretted 150410 y0 is 
Pow. S


Awl's!'Wan and Service of Process
(0 
Paw submits to the jurtediclo ► of the Federal Court of Minds.
(g1 
Unless and until wailed M writing by Pater to the Commission of the egloinbliont of
sriotroriew 
ss sone within Austad., Peat InavOcabiy apOointe Aliens Arthur
Robirieen. of Deutsche Bank Pia* 128 Phillip Street, Sydney, NSW, 2000, Australis es
their agent for the purposes of any sandpit ci process under the Mbar Underialthg.
Notices
(h) 
My nodes or other oonununiostion given Inisielon to the Ray Uriderteldno shotdd be
send to the eddress or floc number glean balm
Pear 
Pew Australia Pty United
Montfort Mr John Young. Regional Dkodor Australia/NZ
36.42 Whig Road
West %me NSW 2114
Pax 0860 3648
With a copy Ix
Akins Mina Robinson
Mention: Ms Rona Crumble, Penner
Deutsche Bona Pesos
128 Philp Sanest
Bydroy NIM 2000
For (02) 0230 5333
Commission 
Aberdeen meth 130111Watill, Generel Wager,
Mergers end Asset Sales
LINN 7 Masi Place
123 Pte **et
Sydney NSW 2000
RUC (02)92231002
Mknowiedgnsents
(I) 
Piker sok:1mM.. that the Pliny Underleidna in no %tray shots*, darts and rermedis
ridable to any other person arising *OM the sublsot mbar of ths Pam Undertaking.
fog Aglantlaelld 15040 20.1z200s 
Paola


0) 
Pfizer solataaledgee 1* ihoConaniesionvi make this Undertaking available for public
mapaction end that the ComtismIon WI, from time Wilms, publish and NU* refer in the
Pfizer Undertaidng.
SyNED for PFIZER Ina
Signsitire of Witness
Officer
(14,i  c. 
Nome of WItrapie
Name cf Mar
ACCEPTED by the AUSTRAUAN COMPETITION AND CONSUMER COMMISSION
Gamma Julen Samuel
Corirrnan
kabala Coingstetkin and Consumer Commission
f4s A010711321162 1•3420 20.123301
