Undertaking to the Australian Competition and
Consumer Commission pursuant to section 87B of the
Trade Practices Act 1974
ay
Paw Inc
ids /4011)79321144150140 20.12.1401 
Pogo 1


t Background     
(*1 
Mbar Inc (Pain, a company inaorponsted in Oelorrare, United MOM of 
* a
phannaceutical company whose atithrttas ars divided kwo three bushes' seamen*
consoler neatlicara; tthennsceolateten end *tug health.
(b) 
On 25 hares 2000, Piker end J&J entered into a Stock and /meet Pioche* /*owned to
ems the sub of the Pfiyer Consumer besittmere Business to Johnson & Johnson (JIJ)
Included In the assets of ihed business am Pm Intellectual prop.* and otirdrectual rights In
NNW to the distrIblAion of the Lamed) and Lofton' Mande In Austell.. The-Mile of the
Pfizer Consumer Healthcare emblem In 
►*Mob Mk be seeded under a separate
business transfer Agreement In 11000rdence with the tans of the Stock end Amer
Purchase Agmement end slue be far the sale of NOW of the business and not shwa in a
company.
(el 
In its Statement of IMMO dated 2$ November 2005. the Commission expressed the vim
that the Propotuod Aoradielhon reties cempetidon concerne under section ed Mho Pot
&divan* for tie purposes ditto undertsidng (the Piker'),
 Wriderleidei). ths Commission
taginumed connemed tied the acqukiltion by ALI of Plitt brands Loma& and Leftmost
ocadd teed tD e lessening In competition in the market for now:Ildires te ble .biloirbuli of
dianhosa
Wilhout admission, JIM has Wired an underisking to the Commission wW the Intention
Slat It wit address to commission's econpetitIon conveners inducting in Meilen to the
010310:11 felt medicines for Ito treatment of OWN°. (the Ai Undorbting).
(d) 
The J&J Undadeldng Includes an undertaking to *Omelets the Oarestum grand Bales
within the MIN Sale Pedod to a prospective purcheeer smroved by the Commialbon (the
ApptovedPenhasen. Reievendy for Ike gooses dine Pfizer Undedeldrm, this
includes the sale of fia Lamaist brand and the Lamodi brand whit* ere demiribed In trio
Jil4 Undertaking es the loteneacei Sete end the Lome Sala. In requIrog the Lofencoral
Se* end the 
Sikh the Commission is seeking to enure that those Minds an
*Mind IV en Approved Puretureer capable doomed% In the market tar medlciriss for
Ms treatment of &Oboes. using those brand* awing secured a Douro* of supply.
(4 
Lofton' and Lome we aunts/1y mad seed in Austrian by PflarAtisealle Ply United
which is a wholly maned subsidiary of Pew.
CO) Lofts* end Loring me menufecturod far and supplied to Pew Minutes:during Services
(a company incorporated a Inland) by NM Pharmectedicels (111Q tanned UMW under a
Itenufacturing and Supply Agreement (dm NFL Agreement). Mar Austelle Ply Undted
Obtains its requirements of tc4ionoal end Loma* for eats In Au*** through Pier Imp.
company errannemente
(11) 
The born en arrennemontiebich MI be entered into telowirei /he Lentil and
Lotanonal Sales are uncertain at Wit cube. It Is possible that the NMI. Agreement Inectar
m 1t relates to Lonio end tohnexid wig be assigned to Ji1J or to an Approved Pardoner:
new arrangements may be entered into between 45.1 end NAL, or an Approved Purchaser
and NM; or NM arannements may be entered IMO between an alternative supplier of
(d)
ass Amoreserm isogin 20.12.2504 
Pas t


Lornodi and Lofentatel and J11.1. or an Oterneilos ouPPIlor and *mod Phew
Should no one Of these &Verdi occur, POW toderialtali, On the terms eat out below, to
ensure ongoing supply of Lomeli end UAW* for sale In Australis to en Approved
Ptwohassr, *Mid this be lequirad by en Approved Purchaser.
(I) 
Pfizer has Preferred do Aber Undo/Old% to the Commission pursuant to election V8 of
the Ad.
21 Interpretation
DOZnitions
(ef 
In this document, words end Woes shad have the aims meeting as In the .i&J
Undertaking united expressly dotted in the new Undertaking.
construction
(1* 
In the Interpretedon of adause of the Paw UndertekIng, a combo:don poet amid
Prooloio the tx*Potto or (Moot lindsrtYina the Pfizer underlaid% (whether that purpose or
object Is sown* stated In the Piker Undwaddng or not) shell be preferred to a
constmetion that woUid not promote Mat purposeer object. In the interpretation of this
Undertaking, Medal which does act font pert of this Undertaking, including the
Conmassion's Slakshini of Issues dated 28 Nmember 2C138, may be considered to:
(I) dettift13 the meshing de dam firths ordinary owning conveyed by the bud of
the *WO taking Into account its context In the Undertaidng oat the cerstpedtbn
Concerns Intended to be addressed by Ms Undertaldng and the clause in question:
Or
debentene the meeting of Me douse when the orenwy meaning conveyed by the
aid of the clause taking into account its WOO In the Undertsidng and the
purpose Or abject unckabM0 the Underbdt% *edit° a result that does not
preemie the purpose or object underlying the Undertaking.
(4 In determining whether contikleistion should be given to any nudariel h socordenee with
douse (b) or kt considering any weleht to boom to any such arterial; regard shed be
had, In addition to any other relevant modem to the:
(I) effort that ream. on Ito ordinary manilla conveyed by V* bud of the Osumi
world hove (taking Into mount its wawa In the Undertaking and whether that
meaning promoter the purpose or object Of the UMW.** and
00 
the reed to ensure that the Undittaldng promotes compadden.
(4) 
In partenting as obegatiorte under the Poser Undertaking. Misr WI do avarything
ressonablyvAthin Its power to enswe that Ns performance of those Waggons is done in a.
rhymer which Is cookont with promotelg the purpose and object of the Mar
Undertaking.
OP 
Unless expressed to the Contrary, In Ns &moment
(0 
words in the singularktelude the plural end vice versa:
ioriventratimito ONO 2312,2313 
Pais 3


(1) 
fla word or phrase *defined its odor gramMelicel forms hew corresponding
meeningd and
"Inekster moons Include, newt limitation.
(f) 
altos satmeseed to the contely, k this document a reference to;
(1) a person ',WWII a partnership jakd wine" unincomoreted assooleffolt
corporstion end a government or glittery body or mak*
GO 
a Person includes the person's legal personal representatives, sucoeseers, sear*
end persons substituted by novidlorg
any legislefon Ind*, subordinate legislation under I and Includes tlist legislation
and subonflitete legrelefion ss mediled or rep coed; and
(Iv) 
en obligation Intiodee s weIrtulty or representation and a reference to @Murat°
comply with an clewing% Wades a breach of toffs* or representation.
(el 
Headings do not affectthe Interpretation of this doeurnart
3 COMM•nners4rit of Mat Undertaking
toed
Paw Undertaking comes into effect when the Plias Undo/Wang I wooded by Pear and
and =muted by the Commitelon,
4. 
Ongoing supply urulsriskings
(a 
Met via, ',requested to by ALI punatent to is obligation wider dem 24 of the At
Underlaid% supply to tine Approved Purchaser the Approved purchases mod
requirements cashews! end Loma far ode by the Approved Pun:dueler le Auntzds.
(el 
Supply wlb oornmence width 30 days of J&J msdng the request unless otherwise oar etd
with the Approved Purd*W.
(c) The cost of supply% the Approved Poschaew will be no greater thee Mat actual oft
(Mach include the OW paid to NPIL and any yeestmable costs of delivery, bid does sal
Include any ofPlieurts Internal cods auuclidui with thWgierrient of supply):
(di Pincer triN not, in any 12 month period, be requIred . to supply en amount of Lolbnome or
Loma to the Approved Purchsest. If the *mated owed by the Approved Miramar is
amour than 173 per cent of the total mount of eller product aspired or said by new
Aueollo Pty Ltd (whichever Is the 'pater) in the 2005 as ender
(41 
Ptizar's oeirgetiost to supply wa WNW 2 yews from the ea* J&J OW rawest supply.
(fy 
NoholhetandIng peregrepb (1). Met vAll continue 62 supply Lofenoxel and Loma&
branded product to the Approved AM:Nosey on terms referred to In paragraphs (a) and (d)
for a further 12 months !liar the expiry of the had yew period if:
0) . the Approved Psodteeer rogue* it 3 Months pow to the wintry aft), 2
year pedal; and
Atioreattnad idiom) ae.12etd1


00 
the meson for the Approved Purchases request Is dud It Is unable to
ammonia retelling Loisnored end Lornatil.branded product Kilned fart
an alternative Vane at supplies a result of delay In obtaining the
necessary approvals born the Therepeudc Goode Adminletration width
delay le not cased by en at or antiosion of the Approved Putthimor.
(g) 
Pfizer MI not be obliged to comment* supply undyed' Mauve unless  Jtfal has garbed to
Maw en indemnity In sweet of any meat Meer may flew to mules NPIL (other then
payments for goods sold and dabbed) solely in annotation with the &mato of Lama
end Lalonde.' k Autiordie. The Indemnity offered by ..110 may be knotted to moments to
NOD_ the occuweace °belga was nodded %oaf a ressoneble law Won the famed*
were rad&
(Pf The alio:don &coaled by Fiber In dame d(e)abOve:
0) 
may ilMtive kw doing ell dies within Its antral, neweary to enforce
its contractual rig* under the NPIL Agrearrent end
01) le abject to Jeti doing d things whin as anal, wean to enure
Pfizer is able to comply Mb the undertaking, Including but not Ilmlbd to
ensuring access to rights to liable*, ;ropily that are rag.drad for Post
to amply wait tote supply Megan.
it Genend
dbligation to procure
Op Where the ardenvona of en allot* under the Mixer Undertaking is Imposed on Piker,
If oamplase performance of dm Piker Unaltering requires a Related Body Corporate of
Pfizer toast some action or meat Over taking owns scan. Pew veal wooso that
Related Body Corporate to take test action ar refrain from toting that sada. 
-
&ligation to provide the Commission with information
() 
Piker vela provide the Commission with all Ink smelter and eanUraelite ft* the Caterniselon
ressonsay ramble for the purpose of mantaring otargionao with the Piker Undideldng.
(p) 
Pftawalll use lb boot endeavours to campy with any request for Informabn born the
Cambium/AM 5 &AWN Days or such other parted of *n as may be agreed
between Maw and the Conmileslon.
Except as required by tow. be Combs* we keep oonlidettiel arty Womb* provided
to it by Fehr mauled to tics Pert 5 wNdi Is Marla by Piker as confidential and the
Download= s yeas Is coelldenesi end al not diatoms the sums to any petty vetoed the
written anneent of Phase.
tteeerabillty
(a) 
If for any meson s provhdan or provisions &the Piker Undeneldng are found to be
unlawful, amid arimaforamble. to the want permitted by few, the rernsinba terms of
dm Mar Undertaking ranch In brae.
ficsA010711121144 1504X 30.12.200a
Peas 5


J4riedkiion end Service of Process
(I) Pew submits lo theme cite Federal Court of Award&
(g1 
Unless and urn notlied in writing by Pear to the Commission tithe eggokaitsot of
snob* low frei ss scent within Australis, Pfizer brevOcebly appoint* Akar Mrs
Rabbles:a. of Deutsche Sank Plebe, 128 Phillip Sheet, Sydney, NSW, 2000, Australia es
tisk agent far the imposes of any service of prooessunder the PlIzer Undertiddng.
NoNces
04 
Any notice or other oontmwdostion given In relelcsi to the nor Undetteking should be
sand to the,. eddies* or tax number given below:
Piker Australis Pty Limited
Ailed= Mr John Young, Regional Director AudaillaiN2
311•42 Wharf Road
Wed Ryds NSW 2114
Roc (02)9880 3848
With COY to:
AEONS Arthur Roblneon
Aftentiorc Ms Pions Croeble, NOW
Deutsche Bank Pisa
120 Philp Street
Sydney NSW 2000
Fac (02) 0280 5333
Commission 
Atiartionatrilm Grimm* Goland Mow
Mows and Asset Sales
Level 7 Angel Place
123 PIS Street
Sydney NSW 2000
Fax (02)=31002
ACknowiedgments
(1) 
Pffasr acknowledges 1hst the Phi* UndoleltIng In noway 'reds the Vita and somsdiss
nvaliebie to any odier person arising *omen subject maw of the Past Undsrtsl*ig.
noiontasioa loco 2042204 
PRP 4


1111=1,PM.1.••n•n••••n••n•n••nn40111111111=11101IN .k.•••••••""'
carne Julian SunuM
Ceeirmen
Australian Convellon and COMMON Cornmiesion
0) 
Pear eckntretedges p theConunkeion make Ode Undatialdng aveleble for pubic
impaction and Mat the Correlation will, from Ono to time, ptalish and publicly refer to the
Pfizer Undertaking.
SIONED for PFIZER lac
Sinn of Wkneee 
011kter
to at., ot*:tSajr
None of Wimple
Name Of Officer
Dow
ACCEPTED by the AUSTRALIAN COMPETMON AND CONSUMER COMMISSION
OP* a
