Australian
Competition &
Consumer
Commission
Public Competition Assessment
22 February 2007
Johnson & Johnson - proposed acquisition of Pfizer Inc's consumer
healthcare business
Introduction
1.
On 21 December 2006, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission
(ACCC) announced its decision not to oppose the proposed acquisition of Pfizer
Inc (Pfizer) by Johnson & Johnson (J&J) (proposed acquisition), subject to the
provision of section 87B undertakings by J&J and Pfizer which were accepted by
the ACCC on 21 December 2006. The ACCC was of the view that the proposed
acquisition, in conjunction with the undertakings, would be unlikely to have the
effect of substantially lessening competition in a market in contravention of
section 50 of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (the Act).
2.
The ACCC formed its view on the basis of the information provided by the
merger parties and information arising from its market inquiries. This Public
Competition Assessment outlines the basis on which the ACCC has reached its
view on the proposed acquisition, subject to confidentiality considerations.
Public Competition Assessment
3.
To provide an enhanced level of transparency and procedural fairness in its
decision making process, the ACCC issues a Public Competition Assessment for
all transaction proposals where:
n a merger is rejected;
n a merger is subject to enforceable undertakings;
n the merger parties seek such disclosure; or
n a merger is approved but raises important issues that the ACCC considers
should be made public.
4.
This Public Competition Assessment has been issued because J&J's proposed
acquisition of Pfizer is subject to court enforceable undertakings.
5.
By issuing Public Competition Assessments, the ACCC aims to provide the
market with a better understanding of the ACCC's analysis of various markets
and the associated merger and competition issues. It also alerts the market to the


Johnson & Johnson - proposed acquisition of Pfizer Inc's consumer healthcare business
circumstances where the ACCC's assessment of the competition conditions in
particular markets is changing, or likely to change, because of developments.
6.
Each Public Competition Assessment is specific to the particular transaction
under review by the ACCC. While some transaction proposals may involve the
same or related markets, it should not be assumed that the analysis and decision
outlined in one Public Competition Assessment will be conclusive of the ACCC's
view in respect of other transaction proposals, as each matter will be considered
on its own merits.
7.
Many of the ACCC's decisions will involve consideration of both non-
confidential and confidential information provided by the merger parties and
market participants. In order to maintain the confidentiality of particular
information, Public Competition Assessments do not contain any confidential
information or its sources. While the ACCC aims to provide an appropriately
detailed explanation of the basis for the ACCC decision, where this is not
possible, maintaining confidentiality will be the ACCC's paramount concern, and
accordingly a Public Competition Assessment may not definitively explain all
issues and the ACCC's analysis of such issues.
The parties
The acquirer: Johnson & Johnson
8.
J&J is a global manufacturer of health care products and related services for the
consumer, pharmaceutical, medical devices and diagnostics industries. J&J has
more than 230 operating companies in 57 countries and it sells products
throughout the world. J&J's portfolio of consumer health care brands include
Band-Aid, Tylenol, Johnson 's Baby, Motrin, St Joseph aspirin, Benecol, Splenda,
Imodium A-D, O.B. Tampons, Stayfree, Mylanta, Pepcid A C and Monistat.
The target: Pfizer Inc
9.
Pfizer discovers, develops, manufactures and markets pharmaceutical, animal and
consumer healthcare products. Pfizer's key consumer healthcare brands include
Benadryl, Listerine, Nicorette, Cortizone, Desitin, e.p.t., Lubriderm, Neosporin,
Rolaids, Sudafed and Visine.
The proposed transaction
10.
Pursuant to a Stock and Asset Purchase Agreement entered into between J&J and
Pfizer on 25 June 2006, J&J proposed to acquire from Pfizer, on a global basis,
its worldwide consumer healthcare business.
11.
The proposed acquisition was conditional upon the approval of competition
agencies in the United States, Canada and the European Union. On 11 December
2006, the European Commission (EC) announced that it had approved the
proposed acquisition subject to certain divestitures.
12.
The proposed acquisition was not subject to ACCC approval. However, to
address the ACCC's competition concerns in the anti-diarrhoeals, worm
-2-


Johnson & Johnson - proposed acquisition of Pfizer Inc's consumer healthcare business
treatments and nicotine replacement therapy (NRT) product categories, J&J
offered the ACCC an undertaking pursuant to section 87B of the Act (the J&J
Undertaking).
13.
The ACCC undertook market inquiries in relation to the J&J Undertaking in mid
December 2006. The J&J Undertaking, and an additional section 87B
undertaking provided by Pfizer (the Pfizer Undertaking), were accepted and
signed by the ACCC on 21 December 2006. The closing of the proposed
transaction took place on or about 20 December 2006.'
14.
The J&J Undertaking and the Pfizer Undertaking are available on the ACCC's
website at \\ w .acct.gov.au/completedinfonnalbyyear.
 .au'eompletedinfonnalbyyear.
Timing
15.
The following table outlines the timeline of key events in this matter.
Date
Event
04-Oct-2006
ACCC received submission from Johnson & Johnson. ACCC commenced
review under the Merger Review Process Guidelines. Market inquiries
commenced.
11-Oct-2006
ACCC requested further information from Johnson & Johnson. Indicative
timeline suspended pending receipt of Johnson & Johnson's response.
16-Oct-2006
ACCC received Johnson & Johnson's response to ACCC information
request of 11 October.
18-Oct-2006
Johnson & Johnson advised intention to make submission to ACCC
addressing possible competition effects.
20-Oct-2006
Closing date for submissions from interested parties.
01-Nov-2006
ACCC received submission from Johnson & Johnson addressing possible
competition effects.
06-Nov-2006
Proposed date for announcement of ACCC's findings (30 November
2006) delayed pending the resolution of Applicant's claim for
confidentiality and related matters.
24-Nov-2006
Applicant's claim for confidentiality and related matters resolved.
ACCC timeline recommenced.
28-Nov-2006
ACCC published Statement of Issues outlining its preliminary
competition concerns.
11-Dec-2006
Closing date for submissions from interested parties responding
to ACCC's Statement of Issues.
13-Dec-2006
Johnson & Johnson submitted s.87B Undertaking relating to its
divestiture proposal for market inquiries by ACCC, and ACCC commenced
market inquiries on Johnson & Johnson's proposed divestiture.
15-Dec-2006
Closing date for submissions from interested parties regarding
Johnson & Johnson's proposed divestiture.
21-Dec-2006
ACCC accepted section 87B undertakings from Johnson & Johnson
and Pfizer and announced it will not oppose the proposed acquisition.
Market inquiries
16.
The ACCC conducted market inquiries with a range of industry participants,
including other manufacturers and distributors of healthcare products, industry
J&J's news release dated 20 December 2006 -
http://www.jnj.cominewsjnj news/20061220 162712.htm
-3-


Johnson & Johnson - proposed acquisition of Pfizer Inc's consumer healthcare business
associations, and customers for healthcare products, including retail pharmacy
chains. Submissions were sought in relation to the substantive competition issues
and the proposed undertakings.
Statement of Issues & the undertakings
17. The ACCC published its Statement of Issues in relation to the proposed
acquisition on 28 November 2006 identifying a number of 'issues of concern'. In
the Statement of Issues the ACCC stated its preliminary view that the proposed
acquisition would be likely to lead to reduced competition and increased prices in
Australia for the supply of:
n worm treatments;
n anti-diarrhoeals; and
n NRT products.
18.
As discussed above, J&J and Pfizer subsequently provided court enforceable
undertakings, pursuant to section 87B of the Act, to address the competition
issues identified by the ACCC in the Statement of Issues.
19.
Set out below is an overview of the competition issues arising from the proposed
acquisition (as identified by the ACCC), the key elements of the s87B
undertakings provided by J&J and Pfizer, and the ACCC's views on the impact of
the proposed acquisition on competition for the supply of worm treatments, anti-
diarrhoeals and NRT products in light of the undertakings provided.
Worm treatments
Competition concerns
20.
J&J and Pfizer competed in Australia for the supply of worm treatments through
their respective brands Vermox, and Combantrin and Combantrin-1. These
products are all considered to be non-prescription medicines which can be
obtained from pharmacies over the counter (OTC). According to J&J, there are
at least twelve other suppliers of worm treatments in Australia.2
21.
Market inquiries suggested that the merged firm may account for approximately
80-85% of sales of worm treatments in Australia, with its next largest competitor
having a very small share of the sales of worm treatments in Australia.'
22.
In light of the high level of concentration likely to result from the proposed
acquisition and given that existing or potential competitors would be unlikely to
provide a sufficient competitive constraint on the merged firm, the ACCC formed
the view that there was the potential for a substantial lessening of competition for
the supply of worm treatments.
2 Although, two of these suppliers, Alphapharm and GSK, supply worm treatment products which are
prescription only medicines. The brands of Alphapharm and GSK are respectively Anthel, and Eskazole
and Zentel.
Combantrin and Vermox brands accounted for the largest and second largest shares, respectively, of the
supply of worm treatments in Australia.
-4-


Johnson & Johnson - proposed acquisition of Pfizer Inc's consumer healthcare business
Background – Vermox brand
23.
As set out in detail below, J&J proposed to divest its Vermox brand in the worm
treatments product category to address the ACCC's competition concern.
However, according to J&J, J&J have experienced supply problems with the
Vermox brand since December 2005. According to J&J, its subsidiary, Janssen-
Cilag Pty Ltd (Janssen), received its final deliveries of Vermox in February 2006
after its third party manufacturer ceased trading. J&J stated that Janssen has no
remaining inventory of Vermox.
24.
Notwithstanding this, J&J stated that it was in discussions with the Therapeutic
Goods Administration (TGA) and it was hoping the TGA would shortly grant
approval to the registration of one of its Italian manufacturing plants within the
Janssen-Cilag group to be the finished product manufacturer of Vermox.
Impact of the Undertaking
25.
The J&J Undertaking provides (at clause 21), in particular, for the divestment to a
purchaser approved by the ACCC (approved purchaser) of J&J's Vermox brand
by way of transfer of:
n the trademark and other intellectual property associated with this brand (as
listed in clauses (a) to (c) of Schedule 4 of the J&J Undertaking);
n a list of J&J's customers in Australia for the Vermox product;
n any finished goods inventory of the Vermox product for sale in Australia held
by J&J on the date of completion of the Vermox sale;
n any contractual rights that relate exclusively to the Vermox brand and which
are capable of being assigned;
n all relevant data, books and records that relate exclusively to the Vermox
business in Australia and Vermox customers in Australia; and
n all relevant TGA registrations and approvals together with related licences.
26.
J&J has also undertaken (clauses 22 and 25) to assist the approved purchaser, if
the approved purchaser requests, to secure a source of supply of the Vermox
product. This would be primarily achieved by J&J fulfilling its obligation, if
requested by the approved purchaser, to supply the approved purchaser with the
requested quantity of the Vermox product on reasonable commercial terms for a
two year transitional period, commencing within 3 months of J&J obtaining all
necessary TGA approvals for its Italian manufacturing plant. However, this
period may be extended for a further 12 months if requested and if the approved
purchaser is unable to commence retailing the Vermox product sourced from an
alternative supplier due to delays in obtaining the necessary approvals from the
TGA (provided such delay is not caused by the approved purchaser).
27.
In addition, J&J is also required, unless requested otherwise, to pursue diligently
and within the shortest time possible all necessary approvals from the TGA
relating to its Italian manufacturing plant and to assist the approved purchaser to


Johnson & Johnson - proposed acquisition of Pfizer Inc's consumer healthcare business
gain any approvals, authorisations and licences necessary for it to obtain supply
of Vermox for retail sale within Australia.'
Conclusion – worm treatments
28.
In considering J&J's proposal to address the ACCC's competition concerns
through the divestiture of its Vermox brand, the ACCC took into account
Vermox's recently diminished market share, caused by J&J's problems in
securing a supply of Vermox. However, given the previous strength of the
Vermox brand and the fact that market inquiries indicated that there is potential
for Vermox to be acquired by an experienced supplier of consumer healthcare
products, the ACCC formed the view that J&J's divestiture proposal would
maintain competition to J&J's Combantrin brand once supply is recommenced.
Anti-diarrhoeals
Competition concerns
29.
J&J supplies a range of anti-diarrhoeal products in Australia under the Imodium
and Imodium Advanced ranges. Pfizer supplied two ranges of anti-diarrhoeal
products in Australia, Lomotil and Lofenoxal. According to J&J, each of these
products is most commonly sold in the form of non-prescription medicine which
can be obtained from pharmacies OTC.
30.
Market inquiries suggested that the merged firm may have approximately a 55%
share of the supply of anti-diarrhoeals in Australia. J&J submitted that a strong
competitor in this area was Aspen Pharmacare (Aspen) through its supply of the
Gastrostop product. J&J stated that other competitors in this area included
Hamilton and Sigma, including Amcal. The brands of these suppliers are
respectively Harmonise, Diarrhoea Relief and Amcal's Anti-diarrhoeal.
31.
In light of the high level of concentration likely to result from the proposed
acquisition and given that existing or potential competitors would be unlikely to
provide a sufficient competitive constraint on the merged firm, the ACCC formed
the view that there was the potential for a substantial lessening of competition for
the supply of anti-diarrhoeals.
Background – manufacturing of Lomotil and Lofenoxal
32.
As set out in detail below, J&J proposed to divest Pfizer's Lomotil and Lofenoxal
brands in the anti-diarrhoeals product category to address the ACCC's
competition concern. However, as a result of the proposed acquisition, J&J
submitted it would only acquire the assets of the Australian Pfizer company
which owns the rights to sell Lomotil and Lofenoxal, and not a source of supply
of those products. The Lomotil and Lofenoxal products distributed in Australia
are manufactured overseas by a third party, NPIL Pharmaceuticals (UK) Limited
(NPIL), under a manufacturing and supply agreement (the NPIL Agreement)
with a part of the Pfizer Group that was not part of J&J's proposed acquisition.
Clause 22(a) and Clause 22(c) of the J&J Undertaking.
-6-


Johnson & Johnson - proposed acquisition of Pfizer Inc's consumer healthcare business
Impact of the Undertakings
33. The J&J Undertaking provides (at clause 21), in particular, for the divestment of
the Lomotil and Lofenoxal brands by way of transfer of:
n the trademark and other intellectual property associated with these brands (as
listed in sub-clauses (a) to (c) of Schedule 2 and subclauses (a) to (d) of
Schedule 3 of the J&J Undertaking);
n any other assets possessed by J&J which relate exclusively to these brands in
Australia and which the approved purchaser of these brands requires for the
conduct of the business in respect of these brands;
n customer lists for these brands; and
n all relevant TGA registrations and approvals together with related licences.
34.
Given that J&J will not acquire that part of the Pfizer Group which is a party to
the NPIL Agreement and that the commercial arrangements which will be entered
into following the Lomotil and Lofenoxal sales are uncertain at this stage, J&J and
Pfizer have both provided undertakings to the ACCC so that the approved
purchaser/s of Lomotil and Lofenoxal are provided with a transitional source of
supply of these products if it is required. Clauses 26 to 31 of the J&J
Undertaking as well as, in particular, clause 4 of the Pfizer Undertaking contain
these obligations. These clauses provide that if the approved purchaser/s requires
transitional supply, J&J will require Pfizer to provide transitional supply to the
approved purchaser/s in certain circumstances. Alternatively, J&J will be
required to provide transitional supply of Lomotil and Lofenoxal to the approved
purchaser/s in certain circumstances.
35.
Providing transitional supply of Lomotil and/or Lofenoxal to the approved
purchaser/s will be primarily achieved by J&J and/or Pfizer, fulfilling its
obligations, if requested, to supply the approved purchaser/s with the requested
quantity' of the Lomotil and/or Lofenoxal product at cost price for a two year
transitional period. However, this period may be extended for 12 months if
requested6 and if the approved purchaser/s is unable to commence retailing
Lomotil and/or Lofenoxal sourced from an alternative supplier due to delays in
obtaining the necessary approvals from the TGA (provided such delay is not
caused by an approved purchaser/s).
36.
Further, in the event that the approved purchaser/s of Lomotil and Lofenoxal
obtain or seek to obtain supply of these products from a source other than J&J,
Pfizer or NPIL, J&J must use best endeavours to procure that the approved
purchaser/s secure a competitive source of supply of Lomotil and/or Lofenoxal,
including by assisting the approved purchaser/s to gain any approvals,
5 Clause 4(d) of the Pfizer Undertaking provides that in any 12 month period Pfizer will not be required
to supply to the approved purchaser/s an amount of Lomotil or Lofenoxal which is greater than 175% of
the total amount of either product acquired or sold by Pfizer Australia Pty Ltd (whichever is the greater)
in the 2005 calender year.
6 Clause 4(f) of the Pfizer Undertaking provides that the approved purchaser/s must request an extension
to the two year transitional supply period 3 months prior to the expiry of this two year period.
-7-


Johnson & Johnson - proposed acquisition of Pfizer Inc's consumer healthcare business
authorisations and licences necessary in order for it to obtain supply of Lomotil
and/or Lofenoxal for retail sale within Australia.'
Conclusion - Anti-diarrhoeals
37.
The ACCC formed the view that J&J's divestiture in relation to anti-diarrhoeals,
together with the Pfizer Undertaking, would be sufficient to address the ACCC's
competition concerns in this area. In forming this view regard was given to the
strength of the Lomotil and Lofenoxal brands (together these brands account for
the third largest share of the supply of anti-diarrhoeal products in Australia), the
potential for these brands to be acquired by an experienced supplier/s of
consumer healthcare products, including anti-diarrhoeal products, and given that
together J&J and Pfizer have provided an enforceable mechanism by which the
approved purchaser/s could obtain transitional supply.
Nicotine replacement therapy products
Competition concerns
38.
ALZA Corporation (ALZA), a wholly owned subsidiary of J&J, develops and
manufactures transdermal drug delivery mechanisms. GlaxoSmithKline plc
(GSK) obtains supply of NRT patches from ALZA pursuant to an exclusive
distribution agreement. GSK markets and distributes NRT patches in Australia
under the Nicabate CQ brand. The Nicabate CQ brand also includes other NRT
products such as gum and lozenges.
39.
Pfizer manufactures and distributes various NRT products in Australia, including
patches, gum, sublingual tablets, nasal sprays and inhalers, under its Nicorette
brand.
40.
The ACCC formed the view that as a result of the proposed acquisition there was
likely to be a substantial lessening of competition in the supply of NRT products
in Australia, as J&J would likely have significant influence in relation to the NRT
patch products of the two leading Australian brands, Nicabate CQ and Nicorette,
undermining the competitive tension between these two brands. Market inquiries
suggested that Nicabate CQ and Nicorette may together account for
approximately 65% of total Australian NRT patch sales.
Impact of the Undertaking
41.
The J&J Undertaking addresses the ACCC's competition concerns relating to
supply of NRT products in Australia by incorporating the commitments offered
by J&J to the EC to divest part or all of the global ALZA supply business of NRT
products (the EC Commitments).
42.
The EC Commitments form Schedule 1 of the J&J Undertaking. In addition,
clauses 8, 12, and 32 of the J&J Undertaking seek to incorporate these EC
Commitments in the Undertaking, so that they are enforceable in Australia.8
Clause 31 of the J&J Undertaking.
'Clause 8 sets out the background to why the ACCC has incorporated the EC Commitments in this
Undertaking. Clause 12 contains a definition of EC Commitments. Clause 32 of the Undertakings
incorporates J&J's commitment to the EC to divest the ALZA nicotine supply business.
-8-


Johnson & Johnson - proposed acquisition of Pfizer Inc's consumer healthcare business
Further, clauses 34 to 44 and 66 to 69 (which are discussed below) set out
additional obligations upon J&J which have been included in the Undertaking to
guard against potential conflicting competition outcomes in Europe and Australia.
43. The EC Commitments provide that J&J will:
n first seek to divest the nicotine patch business of J&J in all countries except
USA, Canada & Sth Korea (the International Nicotine Patch Business);
and
n if this divestiture has not succeeded within the confidential timeframe
provided, then J&J will seek to divest its worldwide nicotine patch business
(the Global Nicotine Patch Business).
44.
As summarised by the EC in its press release, 9 the main assets to be transferred to
the purchaser of the ALZA supply business under the EC Commitments include:
"...the relevant supply agreements, trademarks, technology and, as an option
for the purchaser, ALZA's nicotine patch production lines. In addition, J&J
has committed to provide manufacturing capacities and technical assistance to
the purchaser until the latter has become fully operational".
45.
The EC Commitments require J&J to obtain approval from the EC in relation to a
proposed purchaser, and to appoint a Monitoring Trustee to monitor J&J's
compliance with the EC Commitments. As set below, pursuant to the J&J
Undertaking, J&J is also required to obtain approval from the ACCC, and to
direct the Monitoring Trustee to report to the ACCC
Clause 34 to 44 – Divestment to Approved Purchaser Only
46.
This clause prevents J&J selling, or authorising the Divestiture Trustee under the
EC Commitments to sell, the ALZA supply business to a purchaser that has not
first been approved by the ACCC pursuant to the process/mechanism set out in
clauses 35 to 44.
47.
To ensure that the ACCC has an opportunity to approve any purchaser proposed
under the EC Commitments, and importantly prior to the EC's decision being
made on the same issue, clauses 38, 39 and 40 seek to ensure the ACCC receives
relevant information relating to a prospective purchaser as soon as possible.'
48.
Clause 41 provides that the ACCC has 18 business days in which to object to a
prospective purchaser of the ALZA supply business of NRT products.
Clauses 66 to 69 – Monitoring Trustee
49.
Clauses 66 to 69 seek to ensure that the ACCC is informed in a timely manner as
to whether J&J is complying with the EC Commitments, providing that all
information the Monitoring Trustee receives or provides under the EC
Commitments is also provided to the ACCC.
9 Press release dated 11 December 2006, see:
http://europa.eu/rapid/pressReleasesAction.do7reference—IP/06/1726&format=HTML&aged=0&languag
e=EN&guiLanguage=en
1° The EC Commitments do not specify a time period within which the EC must approve a purchaser
proposed by J&J or the Divestiture Trustee.
-9-


Johnson & Johnson - proposed acquisition of Pfizer Inc's consumer healthcare business
Conclusion – nicotine replacement therapy products
50.
The ACCC considered that J&J's divestiture proposal, by seeking to
appropriately incorporate the EC commitments, would be likely to be sufficient to
address the ACCC's competition concerns in relation to the supply of NRT
products in Australia.
51.
In forming this view the ACCC had regard to the scope of the assets forming part
of J&J's EC Commitments. The ACCC considered the assets proposed under the
EC Commitments to be extensive and noted that the EC had taken account of
feedback received from market participants in accepting the EC Commitments.
In addition, the ACCC considered that J&J's obligation to seek ACCC approval
in relation to a proposed purchaser offered protection against the risk that a
proposed purchaser under the EC Commitments raises competition issues in
Australia that do not arise in Europe.
Procedural aspects of the J&J Undertaking
Approved purchaser/s
52.
The J&J Undertaking provides that J&J will identify the prospective purchaser/s
and the ACCC will then assess the prospective purchaser/s having regard to the
factors listed in clauses 35 to 44 of the J&J Undertaking. In particular, the ACCC
may reject the prospective purchaser/s if it forms the view on reasonable grounds
that the:
n prospective purchaser/s is not independent of J&J;
n prospective purchaser/s is not of good financial standing or does not have the
intention to maintain the divested assets; or
n sale to the prospective purchaser/s is not likely to address the competition
concerns identified by the ACCC in its Statement of Issues."
Auditor commitments
53.
The J&J Undertaking provides for the upfront appointment of an independent
auditor to monitor J&J's compliance with the brand maintenance provisions of
the J&J Undertaking (set out at clause 33) relating to the Vermox, Lomotil and
Lofenoxal brands.
Sales agent commitments
54.
The J&J Undertaking requires that if the Vermox, Lomotil and Lofenoxal brands
and associated assets have not been sold by a deadline accepted by the ACCC
(which is confidential) J&J must identify for the ACCC's approval an
independent sales agent. J&J must procure and/or grant the approved agent with
all necessary power and authority to implement the sale of the Vermox, Lomotil
and Lofenoxal brands and associated assets, by way of execution and provision of
an unconditional and irrevocable power of attorney in favour of the approved
agent.
" Clause 42 of the J&J Undertaking.
-10-


Johnson & Johnson - proposed acquisition of Pfizer Inc's consumer healthcare business
Issues that did not raise concerns
Anti-allergics, conglomerate effects & other areas of overlap
55.
In the Statement of Issues, in addition to the 'issues of concern' identified by the
ACCC (which are discussed above) the ACCC also indicated its preliminary view
that 'issues that may raise concerns' included the proposed acquisition's effect on
the supply of ocular antihistamines (an anti-allergic medication). It also indicated
that conglomerate effects may arise from the proposed acquisition as the merged
firm may have the ability and incentive to leverage any market strength in one or
more products to increase sales of a complementary product/s with the effect of
significantly foreclosing rivals' access to shelf space, thereby raising their costs
to the detriment of competition. The J&J Undertaking does not address the
abovementioned areas.
56.
Following market inquiries the ACCC formed the view that there was unlikely to
be a substantial lessening in competition arising in relation to the supply of anti-
allergies or from conglomerate effects, as a result of the proposed acquisition.
57.
Feedback from market participants generally indicated that the merged firm
would continue to face competitive constraints from alternative suppliers of anti-
allergies. In addition, there did not appear to be any significant barriers for
existing, or otential, suppliers of anti-allergics to expand supply in Australia.
58.
With respect to the issue of conglomerate effects, the ACCC noted that while it
appeared common for larger drug wholesalers to offer the retail sector a bundle of
products, wholesale supply tended to be very fragmented and the proposed
acquisition would not empower the merged firm such that it could significantly
foreclose rivals' access to shelf space to the detriment of competition. In
particular, retailers would still have access to alternative suppliers that could offer
alternative bundles of products.
59.
Finally, feedback from market inquiries also confirmed the ACCC's view, set out
in the Statement of Issues, that the proposed acquisition was unlikely to raise
concerns in relation to the remaining areas of overlap between the merger parties,
that is, the supply of nappy rash treatments, codeine phosphate products, thrush
treatments, cold and flu treatments and analgesics.
Conclusion
60.
On the basis of the above, including taking account of the J&J Undertaking and
Pfizer Undertaking, the ACCC formed the view that the proposed acquisition of
Pfizer would not be likely to result in a substantial lessening of competition in
any of the areas of product overlap in Australia, in particular with respect to the
supply of worm treatments, anti-diarrhoeals and NRT products, in contravention
of section 50 of the Act.
