Our ref:  
IM-72413 
 
 
Contact officer:  
Karina Geddes / Albert Lee 
 
Contact phone:  
(03) 9290 1820 / (07) 3811 9266 
16 January 2024 
Dear Interested Party 
Request for submissions: Monash IVF’s proposed acquisition of Fertility North 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
the proposed acquisition of Fertility North Holdings Pty Ltd (Fertility North) by Monash IVF 
Group Limited (Monash IVF) (the proposed acquisition). 
Monash IVF provides specialist fertility, diagnostic obstetric and gynaecological ultrasound 
treatment to patients in Australia and South East Asia. Fertility North provides fertility 
services at Ramsay Joondalup Private Hospital in Joondalup, Western Australia. Further 
details are provided at Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact on competition. In particular, we are 
seeking your views on: 
• 
how closely Monash IVF and Fertility North compete in the supply of in vitro 
fertilisation (IVF) services to patients in Perth; 
• 
the likely impact of the proposed transaction on prices and/or services, particularly 
whether patients would have access to alternative suppliers of low-cost IVF 
services after the proposed acquisition; and 
• 
whether new entry or expansion in the supply of IVF services in Perth would 
constrain a combined Monash IVF/Fertility North from altering its pricing (including 
bulk-billing policies) or service levels.  
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
Please provide your response by 29 January 2024 via email with the title: Submission re: 
Monash IVF / Fertility North - attention Karina Geddes / Albert Lee. If you require more time 
to respond, please let us know. 
If you would like to arrange a time to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any 
questions about this letter, please contact Karina Geddes on (03) 9290 1820 or Albert Lee 
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
tel: (02) 6243 1368 
mergers@accc.gov.au
www.accc.gov.au


on (07) 3811 9266. 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public Mergers 
Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC treats sensitive information it receives during a merger review as confidential, 
and will not publish your submission. We will not disclose submissions to third parties 
(except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of 
information legislation or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the 
Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, we will notify you in advance where possible so that you have an opportunity 
to be heard. Therefore please clearly indicate if any information you provide is confidential. 
Our Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on 
confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
Tim Byrne 
Acting General Manager  
Merger Investigations  
 
 
 
 
 


Attachment A 
 
Proposed acquisition 
 
On 19 December 2023, Monash IVF announced its intention to purchase 80% of Fertility 
North with an option to acquire the remaining 20% in the future, by way of Share Sale 
Agreement.  
 
Monash IVF 
 
Monash IVF is an ASX listed company (ASX:MVF) that offers a range of specialist 
fertility, diagnostic obstetric and gynaecological ultrasound treatments to patients in 
Australia and South East Asia. In Australia, Monash IVF owns and operates several 
different brands including Monash IVF, Repromed and Fertility Solutions. The Monash 
IVF and Repromed brands operate as suppliers of full-service IVF services. Fertility 
Solutions operates as a supplier of full-service and low-cost IVF 
services. 
 
In Perth, Monash IVF owns PIVET, which operates out of PIVET Medical Centre in 
Leederville in central Perth. Monash IVF acquired PIVET in 2023. PIVET offers full-
service fertility services and while until 2023 it provided low-cost IVF under the ZEST 
IVF brand, it no longer does so.  
 
Fertility North 
 
Fertility North is a fertility services provider located at Ramsay Joondalup Private 
Hospital in Joondalup, approximately 29km north of Perth CBD. It offers both full-
service and low-cost IVF services.  
 
Area of overlap 
The parties overlap in the supply of IVF services in Perth. They both supply full-
service IVF services, but only Fertility North provides low-cost IVF services.  
 
Industry background 
 
Infertility is the inability to conceive or maintain a pregnancy to the point of live birth, 
and it affects about one in six Australian couples of reproductive age. IVF is the 
process undertaken by patients who are or may be unable to otherwise conceive, due 
to either medical or social infertility. IVF involves fertilising an egg with sperm in a 
laboratory. The resulting embryos are allowed to grow in the laboratory and then the 
best embryo is placed into the woman's uterus.  
 
IVF services can be broadly categorised as: full service and low-cost. Low-cost 
services are structured to minimise out-of-pocket costs for patients, and therefore do 
not include services such as donor and genetics. Some low-cost IVF patients are 
offered a standardised experience and the service is structured to bulk-bill all Medicare 
eligible expenses, although this is not the low-cost model offered by Fertility North. A 
patient's personal characteristics may restrict them from accessing a low-cost 
offering.  
 
Full-service IVF includes a broader range of services and can include a number of 
services not covered by Medicare including elective egg freezing. The overall out-of-
pocket costs for full-service IVF are generally substantially higher than low-cost IVF.  


 
 
Attachment B 
1. Describe your business or organisation and explain your interest in the proposed 
acquisition, including any commercial relationship(s) with Monash IVF (PIVET) or 
Fertility North. 
Competition between Monash IVF (PIVET) and Fertility North 
2. Describe how closely Monash IVF (PIVET) and Fertility North compete in the 
supply of IVF services in Perth including, for example, in relation to price or bulk-
billing practices, type and quality of service and/or convenience. 
3. Describe whether there has been any change to the competitive constraint PIVET 
imposes on other suppliers of IVF services in Perth following acquisition by 
Monash IVF.  
Competing suppliers 
4. Identify suppliers of IVF services that compete with Monash IVF (PIVET) and/or 
Fertility North and describe whether each is a strong, moderate or weak 
competitor and why.  
5. Provide market share estimates of competing suppliers in the supply of IVF 
services in Perth, including a break down for share of low-cost and full-service 
IVF.  
6. To what extent would these competing suppliers constrain the merged entity 
from altering its pricing (including bulk-billing practices) or service levels after the 
proposed acquisition.  
7. Describe how far patients are typically willing to travel to access the services of 
Monash IVF (PIVET) and/or Fertility North. 
Entry or expansion 
8. Identify competitors which have entered or expanded in the market for the supply 
of IVF services in Perth in the last 5 years. 
9. Identify potential future new entrants in the market for the supply of IVF services 
in Perth. 
10. Identify the competitor/s most likely to commence offering, or expand their 
offering of, low-cost fertility services in Perth in the future.  
11. Discuss the likelihood that these potential entrants, or existing competitors, could 
establish a sufficient presence to constrain a combined Monash IVF 
(PIVET)/Fertility North from altering its pricing (including bulk-billing policies) or 
service levels after the proposed acquisition. 
Other information and competition issues 
12. Describe any trends or changes you see as impacting the competitive landscape 
of the IVF services industry. In your response, consider issues such as:  


a. bulk-billing rates; and 
b. any recent technological developments. 
13. Provide any additional information or comments, or identify other competition 
issues, that you consider relevant to the ACCC’s consideration of the proposed 
acquisition under section 50 of the Act.  
 
