8 December 2006
Statement of Issues — News Ltd’s proposed
acquisition of Federal Publishing Company’s
Community Media Group
1.
This Statement of Issues has been released by the Australian Competition and
Consumer Commission (ACCC) in relation to the proposed acquisition of the
Community Media Group of the Federal Publishing Company (FPC) by News
Ltd (News).
2.
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing
attention to particular competition issues about which there may be varying
degrees of concern, as well as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the
ACCC wishes to undertake.
3.
In line with the ACCC’s Merger Review Process Guidelines (available on the
ACCC’s website at www.accc.gov.au) the ACCC has established a secondary
timeline for further consideration of the issues. The ACCC anticipates completing
further market inquiries by 22 December 2006 and anticipates making a final
decision on 17 January 2007. However, the anticipated timeline can change in
line with the Merger Review Process Guidelines. To keep abreast of possible
changes in relation to timing and to find relevant documents, market participants
should visit the Mergers Register on the ACCC's website at
www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister.
4.
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide
the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further
submissions should they consider it necessary.


2
Background
The transaction
5.
The proposed acquisition involves News obtaining control over all publications
within the FPC Community Media Group. The acquisition is conditional on
ACCC approval.
FPC Community Media Group
6.
The FPC Community Group consists of the following publications:
Sydney
Central, City Weekly, 9 to 5, Inner West Courier, Village Voice Drummoyne,
Village Voice Balmain, North Side Courier, Wentworth Courier, Southern
Courier;
Illawarra
Northern Leader (Wollongong), Lake Times (Shellharbour), Kiama
Independent;
Gold Coast and Sunshine Coast
Best of the Gold Coast Magazine, Weekender Noosa, Weekender (Sunshine
Coast), Weekender Nambour and Coolum.
News Ltd
7.
News Ltd publishes a substantial number of newspapers in Australia including:
a paid daily newspaper in Sydney, the Daily Telegraph;
several free community newspapers in various parts of Sydney including the
North Shore Times; the Hornsby and Upper North Shore Advocate; the
Glebe; the Inner West Weekly; the Mosman Daily; and the Northern District
Times; and
a free community newspaper in Noosa, the Noosa Journal.
Market inquiries
8.
On 26 October 2006, the ACCC commenced market inquiries on the proposed
acquisition. The ACCC contacted a significant number of competitors and
advertisers in the following weeks.
9.
As a result of these market inquiries, the ACCC has identified potential
competition concerns arising from the proposed acquisition.


3
Overview of competition issues
Areas where News and FPC newspapers overlap
10.
The circulation of News publications overlaps, to varying degrees, with the
circulation of FPC publications in the following areas:
Sydney, particularly the northern suburbs, the inner west, central Sydney, the
eastern and south-eastern suburbs; and
the Sunshine Coast.
11.
These areas are discussed in more detail below.
Areas where News and FPC newspapers do not overlap
12.
The circulation of News and FPC publications do not overlap in the Illawarra and
the Gold Coast. Consequently, the ACCC's preliminary view is that News'
acquisition of FPC newspapers in these areas appears unlikely to raise
competition concerns. The relevant FPC newspapers are: the Northern Leader,
Lake Times and Kiama Independent (Illawarra); and the Gold Coast Magazine
(Gold Coast). These areas are not discussed further in this Statement of Issues.
Paid daily newspapers
13.
News publishes The Daily Telegraph, a paid, daily newspaper circulating across
Sydney, and The Australian, a national newspaper that circulates in Sydney. The
ACCC's preliminary view is that these newspapers do not fall within the product
dimension of the markets relevant to the proposed acquisition.
14.
Broadly, advertisers advertising in a free community newspaper seem likely to be
specifically targeting readers in the local community in which that newspaper
circulates. While The Daily Telegraph would cover the relevant local
community, it would also cover a large group of readers outside of this
community. Switching advertising from the community newspaper to The Daily
Telegraph would therefore require advertisers to pay for advertising to potentially
a substantial number of readers outside of their target group. In addition, The
Daily Telegraph may be read by a smaller proportion of readers within the target
group than would read the community newspaper (as readers must pay for The
Daily Telegraph). Consequently, advertising in The Daily Telegraph would
generally seem to be a poor substitute for advertising in a community newspaper.
The same argument can be made in relation to The Australian (albeit with more
strength given this paper's national distribution).
15.
Similarly, consumers seem likely to read free community newspapers because
they provide locally focused news and information (and, probably, locally-
relevant advertising). Given its city-wide focus, The Daily Telegraph would only
seem likely to provide local community news when this was of interest to readers
across Sydney, which may be uncommon. The Australian, given its national
focus, would seem even less likely to cover local community news stories.
Consequently, for readers, The Daily Telegraph and The Australian would seem


4
likely to be poor substitutes for the content provided by local community
newspapers.
16.
Given the preliminary conclusion that The Daily Telegraph and The Australian
are likely to be poor substitutes for free community newspapers in Sydney, there
is no relevant overlap between News and FPC publications in the eastern and
south-eastern suburbs of Sydney. The relevant FPC publications are the
Wentworth Courier and the Southern Courier. These publications are not
discussed further in this Statement of Issues.
Northern Sydney
17.
News proposes to acquire FPC's Northside Courier. The Northside Courier is a
free community newspaper with a circulation of 80,000 along a corridor
stretching from Sydney Harbour northwards to Wahroonga, just south of
Hornsby.1
18.
News publishes the following free newspapers that overlap with the circulation of
the Northside Courier:2
the North Shore Times, a bi-weekly free community newspaper with a
circulation of around 75,000 that overlaps substantially with that of the
Northside Courier, the main difference being that the North Shore Times is
not circulated in the Mosman area; and
the Mosman Daily, a free weekly newspaper circulating in the Mosman area
of Sydney. It has a total circulation of around 37,000 which overlaps within
the far south-eastern section of the circulation area of the Northside Courier.
19.
News also publishes two other free community newspapers – the Hornsby and
Upper North Shore Advocate and the Northern District Times – which overlap
slightly with the circulation of the North Shore Times and the Northside Courier.
20.
As indicated above, the circulation of the Northside Courier substantially overlaps
with the circulation area of the North Shore Times. No other significant
independent community newspapers appear to exist in this area, although the
ACCC is aware of a small recently-established community newspaper, The Local
Citizen, circulating in Gordon, Pymble and St Ives.
Real estate advertising
21.
Currently, it appears that network effects3 have resulted in most real estate
advertising (in free community newspapers) being placed with the North Shore
Times, with a much smaller amount in the Northside Courier. This suggests that
the Courier provides only limited competition to the North Shore Times for real-
estate advertising.
1 See www.fpc.com.au/sites/wc/wc_2006_08-Distribution_Map.pdf; accessed on 8 December 2006.
2 See www.community.newsmedianet.com.au/home/groups/group/index.jsp?groupid=1; accessed on 7
December 2006
3 Network effects exist where one newspaper attracting a significant number of advertisers (because it
attracts a significant number of readers) results in it attracting more advertisers.


5
22.
More generally, market inquiries suggest that real estate advertising with the
North Shore Times is a ‘must-have’ (because of network effects) and that online
and other forms of advertising (e.g. the Sydney Morning Herald, letterbox drops,
online advertising) are used in addition to, rather than in place of, advertising with
the North Shore Times. The ACCC notes that advertising in the Sydney Morning
Herald appears to be substantially less expensive than advertising with the North
Shore Times, suggesting that the Sydney Morning Herald is only a limited
constraint on advertising prices in the North Shore Times.
23.
However, market inquiries also raise the possibility that the Sydney Morning
Herald is a much stronger competitor for real estate advertising in the Northside
Courier (which is not ‘protected’ by network effects).
General advertising
24.
Market inquiries suggest that competition for advertisers between the Northside
Courier and North Shore Times for non-real-estate advertising has assisted in
preventing increases in advertising rates. For example, market inquiries indicate
that discounts have been offered on the rates published on ratecards as a result of
competition between the two newspapers.
25.
The ACCC also notes that advertising rates for the Wentworth Courier and the
Southern Courier, which circulate in areas where there are no competing free
newspapers, appear to be significantly higher than advertising rates in either the
North Shore Times or the Northside Courier.
26.
For non-real-estate advertising, market inquiries suggest that other types of media
are not close substitutes because they either do not target the relevant local area,
or do not have sufficient consumer reach within that local area. Consequently, if
advertising rates rose post-acquisition, market inquiries suggest that general
advertisers would have no significant alternative to advertising with one of the
two northern Sydney free newspapers (both owned by News post-acquisition).
Barriers to entry
27.
While the ACCC has found in previous free suburban/regional newspaper matters
that barriers to entry can be low, this may not be the case in the current matter.
Market inquiries suggest that it may be difficult for a third significant free
newspaper – that is, one comparable to the Northside Courier and the North Shore
Times – to enter the northern Sydney area, as consumers’ demand for a third
paper may be limited, and consumers may be loyal to existing free newspapers.
Consequently, the ability of a third newspaper to attract advertisers may be
correspondingly limited.
28.
Market inquiries also suggest that an ability to attract at least some real estate
advertising is crucial to a decision to enter a market on a significant scale. Market
inquiries suggest that the prospects for a new entrant obtaining a significant
amount of real estate advertising are minimal. While entry on a much smaller
scale may be possible without the need to attract much real estate advertising (the
Local Citizen appears to be an example of this), smaller newspapers would seem


6
likely to place only a limited constraint on papers such as the North Shore Times
and Northside Courier.
29.
There also appear to be no examples of significant recent new entry in the
northern Sydney area that could help substantiate an argument that barriers to
entry are low. More generally, the ACCC is also not aware of any significant
new community newspapers in the circulation area of the Wentworth Courier,
despite the high advertising rates charged by this newspaper.
Conclusion
30.
In conclusion, the ACCC is concerned that the information currently before it
supports a finding that News Ltd’s proposed acquisition of the Northside Courier
would be likely to breach section 50 of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (TPA).
Inner Western Sydney
31.
News proposes to acquire FPC's Inner West Courier. The Inner West Courier is a
free community newspaper with a circulation of around 75,000 stretching from
Newtown and Leichhardt westwards to Strathfield (south of the Harbour).4
32.
News publishes the following free newspapers that overlap with the circulation of
the Inner West Courier:5
the Glebe, a free weekly community newspaper with a circulation of around
49,000 that significantly overlaps with the eastern part of the circulation of the
Inner West Courier; and
the Inner West Weekly, a free weekly community newspaper with a
circulation of around 51,000 that significantly overlaps with the western part
of the circulation of the Inner West Courier.
33.
The analysis of the proposed acquisition of the Inner West Courier has similarities
to the proposed acquisition of the Northside Courier. In particular:
there appear to be no other significant free community newspapers other than
the News and FPC publications;
real estate advertising is concentrated in the Inner West Courier, suggesting
that the two News Ltd papers are only limited competitors in this field;
competition concerns are therefore more likely to arise in relation to non-real
estate advertising; and
barriers to entry do not appear to be low for the same reasons as those
expressed in relation to northern Sydney.
34.
However, the Glebe and the Inner West Weekly may not be particularly
substitutable for general advertisers in the Inner West Courier. For example, an
advertiser switching from the Inner West Courier to the Glebe would lose access
4
See footnote 1.
5
See footnote 2.


7
to readers in the west of the Courier’s circulation area. Similarly, an advertiser
only wishing to reach readers in the Glebe’s circulation area would waste money
advertising in the Courier, which reaches a wider readership. For advertisers
wishing to reach all of the inner-west, advertising in both the Glebe and the Inner
West Weekly appears to be significantly more expensive that advertising just in
the Inner West Courier.
35.
In conclusion, the ACCC considers that further analysis is required before it
would be in a position to conclude whether News Ltd’s proposed acquisition of
the Inner West Courier would be likely to breach section 50 of the TPA.
Inner Sydney
36.
News proposes to acquire FPC's '9 to 5' and City Weekly.
37.
The City Weekly and ‘9 to 5’ are both free weekly gloss magazines distributed to
Sydney CBD commuters during morning peak commuter periods. Both have
circulations of around 41,000.
38.
News publishes mX, a free daily newspaper that is distributed to readers in the
Sydney CBD (particularly commuters) during afternoon peak commuter periods.
It is also distributed in North Sydney. It has a circulation of around 92,000.
39.
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the News and FPC publications appear
unlikely to be close substitutes, both as regards advertisers and consumers. In
particular:
‘9 to 5’ targets females aged 25 - 39 years in their early to mid career;6
the City Weekly targets males and females aged between 30 and 54;7
mX targets a youth audience between 18 and 34;8
mX is a daily newspaper circulating in the evening, while ‘9 to 5’ and the City
Weekly are weekly magazines circulating in the morning;
there appears to be little overlap in the nature of the advertisers in the FPC
and News publications. For example, mX does not have classified
advertising, unlike ‘9 to 5’ and the City Weekly; and
there appears to be little overlap in the nature of the content in the FPC and
News publications. The City Weekly and ‘9 to 5’ appear to be ‘lifestyle’
magazines, while mX largely provides news content (albeit with a youth
focus).
40.
Consequently, News Ltd’s acquisition of these papers would seem unlikely to
raise competition issues.
6
See http://www.fpc.com.au/page/couriersite.php?pageid=10; accessed on 8 December 2006.
7
See http://www.fpc.com.au/page/couriersite.php?pageid=3; accessed on 8 December 2006.
8
See http://www.mxnet.com.au/; accessed on 8 December 2006.


8
Sunshine Coast
41.
News proposes to acquire the Weekender Noosa.
42.
The Weekender Noosa is a free weekly gloss lifestyle magazine with a circulation
of around 21,000 in the Noosa region.
43.
News recently acquired the Noosa Journal, a free weekly community newspaper
with a circulation of around 21,000 in the Noosa region.
44.
APN News and Media publishes the Noosa News, a free bi-weekly community
newspaper with a circulation of around 21,000 in the Noosa region.
45.
Market inquiries suggested that there was little competition between the
Weekender Noosa and the Noosa Journal. In particular, the content they provide
appears to be quite different. The Weekender Noosa also has only a small
amount of classified advertising compared to the Journal.
46.
In any case, post-acquisition, as strong competitor would remain in the market,
that is, the Noosa News.
47.
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that no competition concerns are likely to arise
from News Ltd’s proposed acquisition of the Weekender Noosa (or the other FPC
‘Weekender’ publications on the Sunshine Coast).
ACCC's future steps
48.
The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers market responses
invited by this Statement of Issues.
49.
The ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on each of the issues
identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that may be relevant
to the ACCC's assessment of this matter.
50.
Submissions are to be received by the ACCC no later than 22 December 2006.
The ACCC will consider the submissions received from the market and the
merger parties in light of the issues identified above and will, in conjunction with
information and submissions already provided by the parties, come to a final view
as to the appropriate course of action to take to resolve any competition concerns
that remain.
51.
The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 17 January 2007.
However the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Merger Review
Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose of
explaining the ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's public
announcement.
