 
Our ref:  
IM-71541 
Contact officer:  
Sidd Sharma 
Contact phone:  
02 9102 4011 
 
 
 
18 January 2022 
Dear Interested Party 
Request for submissions: Acquisition of Port of Geelong by Consortium made up of 
CSC, Palisade and Spirit Super 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on the 
proposed acquisition of the Port of Geelong by a consortium of investors comprised of 
Commonwealth Superannuation Corporation (CSC), the Diversified Infrastructure Fund managed 
by Palisade Investment Partners (Palisade) and Spirit Superannuation (Spirit Super) (the 
Consortium) (the proposed acquisition).  
Background 
The Port of Geelong is a diversified bulk commodity seaport in Corio Bay, Geelong, approximately 
70km by road south west of Melbourne.  
The Port of Portland and the Port of Geelong are Victoria’s major regional bulk commodity ports. 
Both supply port services to customers importing / exporting grain, fertiliser, forestry products and 
certain break-bulk cargo such as wind farm equipment. Funds managed by Palisade own 100% of 
the Port of Portland.  
Further details regarding the parties and their respective interests in Australian ports are set out at 
Attachment A. 
How you can engage with our review 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact of the proposed acquisition on competition. In 
particular, we are seeking your views on:  
• 
the level of competition between Port of Geelong and other bulk commodity ports 
(particularly Port of Portland) to attract importers / exporters;  
• 
whether prices for port services would increase, or service levels would decrease as a 
result of the proposed acquisition;  
23 Marcus Clarke Street 
Canberra ACT 2601 
 
GPO Box 3131 
Canberra ACT 2601 
 
tel: (02) 6243 1368 
mergers@accc.gov.au 
 
www.accc.gov.au 


• 
whether common ownership between bulk commodity ports would remove incentives to 
invest in port infrastructure in order to attract new customers; and 
• 
whether the proposed acquisition is likely to have any impact on competition for the 
provision of stevedoring services in any market.  
A list of specific questions is outlined in Attachment B. 
This matter is public, and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in section 50 of 
the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the Act). Section 50 prohibits mergers and acquisitions 
that are likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
Please provide your response by 2 February 2022 via email with the title: Submission re: 
Consortium (incl. Palisade) proposed acquisition of Port of Geelong – attention Yak Wang / Sidd 
Sharma. If you require more time to respond, please let us know. 
If you would like to arrange a time to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any questions 
about this letter, please contact Yak Wang on 03 9290 6978 or Sidd Sharma on 02 9102 4011. 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public Mergers 
Register. 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We will not disclose 
submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by law (for 
example, under freedom of information legislation or during court proceedings) or in accordance 
with s155AAA of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to 
disclose confidential information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where possible so that you 
may have an opportunity to be heard. Therefore, if the information provided to the ACCC is of a 
confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines 
contain more information on confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
Nick Cooke 
General Manager (acting) 
Merger Investigations


Attachment A 
The proposed acquisition 
The Consortium, via a newly established company, will implement the proposed acquisition 
by acquiring 100% of the shares in GeelongPort Pty Ltd, the Port of Geelong Unit Trust and 
Ports Pty Ltd (collectively, the Target). The Target operates the Port of Geelong.    
Post-acquisition, funds managed by Palisade would hold 24.5% of the Port of Geelong, and 
Palisade would also be responsible for managing a 24.5% interest held by CSC (meaning 
Palisade would be responsible for managing 49% of the Port of Geelong). The remaining 
51% would be held by Spirit Super.  
The Port of Geelong 
The Port of Geelong is currently owned 50% by a consortium comprised of Linx Cargo Care 
Pty Ltd and Infrastructure Investment Corporation (managed by Brookfield) and 50% by SAS 
Trustee Corporation. It is held on a freehold basis, which is different to many other ports 
which are privatised via a long-term lease.  
The Port of Geelong handles approximately 44% of Victoria’s bulk freight and is Victoria’s 
largest bulk commodity port, covering an area of over 96 hectares with 15 berths and five 
sheds. It provides a range of services associated with ownership and management of the 
port, including facility hire, leasing, berth hire, and equipment hire. It is also responsible for 
some port infrastructure and undertaking port related developments.  
Customers at the Port of Geelong include importers and exporters of a number of different 
products, including grain, fertiliser, forestry products, equipment used on wind farms, liquid 
bulk commodities, cement and clinker, and trans-Tasman freight and passenger services 
(commencing 2022). 
Palisade and the Port of Portland  
Palisade is an independent Australian infrastructure fund manager with over $3.2 billion in 
funds under management and commitments. It provides investment opportunities in 
Australian infrastructure to Australian superannuation funds and wholesale investors through 
tailored portfolios, pooled funds and direct investment mandates.  
Investors managed by Palisade have a 100% interest in the Port of Portland. The Port of 
Portland is a diversified bulk commodity seaport located in Portland in South-West Victoria. It 
handles approximately 21% of Victoria’s bulk freight. The port provides services to importers 
/ exporters of grain, mineral sands, fertiliser, smelter cargoes and forestry products (among 
others). By road, the Port of Portland is 290km west of the Port of Geelong and 356km from 
the Port of Melbourne. The Port of Portland provides stevedoring services to port users.  
Investment funds managed by Palisade hold a minority interest in Quantem, a tenant at the 
Port of Geelong that provides bulk liquid storage services. 
Spirit Superannuation and CSC 
Spirit Super is an Australian industry super fund established by trust deed following the 
merger of MTAA and Tasplan in April 2021. Spirit Super has investments in infrastructure 
assets, including a 20% interest in Flinders Ports, which owns and operates seven ports 
across South Australia, including container and bulk ports.  
CSC is a not-for-profit, corporate Commonwealth entity. CSC is the trustee for government 
superannuation schemes which provide retirement, insurance and superannuation services 
to current and former Australian Government employees and members of the Australian 
Defence Force.


Attachment B 
Questions for all interested parties 
1. Please provide a brief description of your business or organisation.  
2. Please outline the reasons for your interest in the proposed acquisition, including any 
relevant commercial relationships (e.g. with the Port of Portland or the Port of Geelong).  
3. Please discuss the extent to which bulk commodity ports compete with one another, 
including in relation to particular commodities (e.g. grain, mineral sands, fertiliser, 
forestry products). To the extent relevant, please comment on:  
a. the factors that influence competition between ports, such as geographical 
location, the ability to handle particular freight, storage facilities, quality of service, 
and the costs of transporting goods to / from a port;  
b. any relevant examples of specific competition (e.g. customers ‘shopping around’ 
or switching between ports, ports bidding against one another for business) 
between bulk commodity ports that you are aware of; and 
c. any views in relation to the level of competition between the Port of Portland and 
the Port of Geelong, including reasons as to why they do / do not compete.  
4. Please discuss whether, in your view, a degree of common ownership between the Port 
of Portland and Port of Geelong (resulting from the proposed acquisition) could impact 
how each port is managed.  
Questions for customers  
5. Please identify and describe the products that you import or export to / from Victoria, 
indicating whether your products classify as bulk freight, containerised freight, or both.  
6. Please identify which port/s you use to import / export products.  
7. Please describe the factors influencing your decision when choosing where to import / 
export out of, and the extent to which you are able to consider alternate ports. In your 
answer please include a description of whether your decision to use a particular port is 
influenced by: 
a. prices for port services including, but not limited to, facility hire, leasing, berth hire 
and equipment hire;  
b. the efficiency of operations / quality of service offered at a particular port;  
c. the availability of particular port infrastructure required to import / export your 
commodity (and if so, please describe the relevant infrastructure); or 
d.  any other factors. 
8. Please describe any experiences of bulk commodity ports (particularly Port of Portland 
and Port of Geelong) offering discounts or service benefits (e.g. priority access to berths 
or infrastructure) to attract contestable business. 
9. Please advise whether the proposed acquisition would likely result in changes to:  
a. port prices;  


b. the levels of service or efficiency of port operations; or 
c. port development or investment strategies. 
10. Please advise whether you have any competition concerns in relation to Palisade’s 
minority interest in Quantem. Specifically whether Palisade’s proposed interest in the 
Port of Geelong could create an incentive and ability to foreclose rivals of Quantem from 
accessing to port services.  
11. Please advise whether you have any competition concerns in relation to Spirit Super’s 
minority interest in Flinders Ports, which operates several ports in South Australia. 
Questions for port operators    
12. Please identify the services that you provide in connection with operating a port in 
Victoria or South Australia.  
13. Please identify who you consider to be your competitors, and the markets in which you 
compete.  
14. Please describe the extent of rivalry between you and any competing ports in Victoria or 
South Australia, including:  
a. the extent to which any of your customers (e.g. customers exporting a particular 
commodity) have the ability to switch between ports;   
b. the factors that, in your experience, influence a customer to choose a particular 
port; and 
c. any strategies that you implement to attract customers from other ports (e.g. 
offering discounts, priority access to infrastructure / berths, port development 
initiatives etc.).  
Questions for stevedores or towage operators 
15. Please briefly outline the nature of operations and services that you provide, including 
any current or previous operations at either the Port of Geelong or Port of Portland. 
16. Please explain the relationship between you, the port at which you operate and the 
customers to which you provide services.  
17. Please outline any competition concerns in relation to the impact of the proposed 
acquisition on competition for the provision of stevedoring services or towage services in 
any markets.  
Other information or competition issues 
18. Please provide any additional information or comments, or identify any other competition 
issues, that you consider relevant to the ACCC’s consideration of the proposed 
acquisition under section 50 of the Act.  
