Page 1 of 15 
 
Statement of Issues 
31 March 2022 
 Spirit Super and Palisade Investment Partners Consortium 
– proposed acquisition of the Port of Geelong 
Purpose 
1. 
A consortium of investors comprised of Spirit Superannuation, the 
Commonwealth Superannuation Corporation and the Diversified Infrastructure 
Fund managed by Palisade Investment Partners (Palisade) (together, the 
Consortium) proposes to acquire 100% of the Port of Geelong, a freehold 
diversified bulk commodity port in Victoria. 
2. 
This Statement of Issues: 
• 
gives the preliminary views of the Australian Competition and Consumer 
Commission (ACCC) on competition issues arising from the proposed 
acquisition 
• 
identifies areas of further inquiry 
• 
invites interested parties to submit comments and information to assist our 
assessment of the issues. 
3. 
Statements of Issues do not refer to confidential information provided by the 
parties or other market participants and therefore may not necessarily represent 
a full articulation of the ACCC’s preliminary position. 
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views 
4. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is 
set out in section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. In general 
terms, section 50 prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to 
have the effect, of substantially lessening competition in any market. 
5. 
The ACCC divides its preliminary views into three categories, 'issues of concern', 
'issues that may raise concerns' and ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’. 


Spirit Super and Palisade Investment Partners Consortium – proposed acquisition of the Port of Geelong 
Page 2 of 15 
Issue that may raise concerns: Reduction in future competition for long-term 
bulk cargo port customers 
• 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition may 
substantially lessen competition in the future supply of port services to 
long-term bulk cargo port users in Victoria.  
• 
Post-acquisition, Palisade would control on behalf of investors, 100% of 
the Port of Portland and a 49% interest in the Port of Geelong.  
• 
The Port of Portland and the Port of Geelong are the two largest Victorian 
bulk cargo ports, between them accounting for more than half of bulk cargo 
in Victoria. There are few bulk ports in Victoria at which long term bulk 
cargo port users can situate their operations.  
• 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition may reduce 
competitive tension between the two ports in making future investments to 
secure such customers.  
Issue that may raise concerns: Reduction in competition for the supply of bulk 
cargo port services in Victoria  
• 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition may 
substantially lessen competition in the supply of port services for bulk 
cargo in Victoria.  
• 
The extent of competitive tension between the two ports for bulk cargo 
varies across different commodities and customers.  The ACCC is 
concerned that the ports may be able to raise prices for bulk cargo port 
services or decrease the quality of those services for a segment of 
customers. 
Making a submission 
6. 
The ACCC invites submissions from interested parties.  
7. 
Detailed discussion of these and other issues, along with specific questions, is 
contained in this Statement of Issues.  
8. 
Interested parties should provide submissions by no later than 5pm on 14 April 
2022. Responses may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: 
Submission re: Spirit Palisade Consortium proposed acquisition of Port of 
Geelong - attention Emma Moulds/Sidd Sharma. If you would like to discuss the 
matter with ACCC officers over the telephone or in person, or have any questions 
about this Statement of Issues, please contact Emma Moulds on (08) 8456 3508 
or Sidd Sharma on (02) 9102 4011. 
9. 
The ACCC anticipates making a final decision on 9 June 2022, however, this 
timeline can change. To keep abreast of possible changes in relation to timing 
and to find relevant documents, interested parties should visit the Mergers 
Register on the ACCC's website at https://www.accc.gov.au/public-
registers/mergers-registers/public-informal-merger-reviews 


Spirit Super and Palisade Investment Partners Consortium – proposed acquisition of the Port of Geelong 
Page 3 of 15 
Confidentiality of submissions 
10. The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We 
will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) 
unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or 
during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition and 
Consumer Act 2010.  Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where possible so that you may 
have an opportunity to be heard.  Therefore, if the information provided to the 
ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’ 
11. A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well as 
identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
12. A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders, and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 
The parties 
The Port of Geelong 
13. The Port of Geelong is currently owned 50% by a consortium comprised of Linx 
Cargo Care Pty Ltd and Infrastructure Investment Corporation (managed by 
Brookfield) and 50% by SAS Trustee Corporation. It is held on a freehold basis, 
which is different to many other ports which are privatised via a long-term lease. 
14. The Port of Geelong is Victoria’s second largest port, located approximately 
75 km south-west of Melbourne. It handles approximately 40% of Victoria’s bulk 
freight and is Victoria’s largest bulk commodity port. The Port covers an area of 
over 96 hectares with 15 berths and five sheds.  
15. Customers at the Port of Geelong include importers and exporters of several 
different products, including grain, fertiliser, forestry products, equipment used on 
wind farms, liquid bulk commodities, cement and clinker, and trans-Tasman 
freight and passenger services (commencing 2022).  
Palisade and the Port of Portland 
16. Palisade is an independent Australian infrastructure fund manager with over 
$3.2 billion in funds under management and commitments. It provides investment 
opportunities in Australian infrastructure to Australian superannuation funds and 
wholesale investors through tailored portfolios, pooled funds, and direct 
investment mandates.  


Spirit Super and Palisade Investment Partners Consortium – proposed acquisition of the Port of Geelong 
Page 4 of 15 
17. Investors managed by Palisade have a 100% interest in the Port of Portland. The 
Port of Portland is a diversified bulk commodity, deep water seaport located in 
Portland in south-west Victoria. It handles approximately 20% of Victoria’s bulk 
freight. The port provides services to importers / exporters of grain, mineral 
sands, fertiliser, smelter cargoes and forestry products (among others). By road, 
the Port of Portland is 290 km west of the Port of Geelong and 356 km from the 
Port of Melbourne. 
18. Investment funds managed by Palisade also hold a minority interest in Quantem, 
a tenant at the Port of Geelong that provides bulk liquid storage services. 
Spirit Superannuation and Commonwealth Superannuation Corporation 
19. Spirit Super is an Australian industry super fund established by trust deed 
following the merger of MTAA and Tasplan in April 2021. Spirit Super has 
investments in infrastructure assets, including a 20% interest in Flinders Ports, 
which owns and operates seven ports across South Australia, including container 
and bulk ports. 
20. The Commonwealth Superannuation Corporation (CSC) is a not-for-profit, 
corporate Commonwealth entity. CSC is the trustee for government 
superannuation schemes which provide retirement, insurance and 
superannuation services to current and former Australian Government employees 
and members of the Australian Defence Force. 
The proposed transaction 
21. The Consortium, via a newly established company, will implement the proposed 
acquisition by acquiring 100% of the shares in GeelongPort Pty Ltd, the Port of 
Geelong Unit Trust and Ports Pty Ltd (collectively, the Target). The Target 
operates the Port of Geelong.  
22. Post-acquisition, funds managed by Palisade would hold 24.5% of the Port of 
Geelong, and Palisade would also be responsible for managing a 24.5% interest 
held by CSC (meaning Palisade would effectively control a 49% interest in the 
Port of Geelong). The remaining 51% would be held and managed by Spirit 
Super. 
Other industry participants 
23. There are two other commercial ports in Victoria: the Port of Melbourne and the 
Port of Hastings. 
24. The Port of Melbourne is Australia’s largest container and general cargo port, 
handling all of Victoria’s containerised freight and approximately 35% of its bulk 
cargo. Located in the heart of Melbourne, the Port of Melbourne has two 
international container terminals and over 30 commercial berths.  
25. It handles a range of bulk cargoes including dry bulk (cement, sugar, grain, and 
gypsum), bulk liquids (such as petrochemicals and crude oil) and break-bulk 
cargo (such as motor vehicles, timber, iron, and steel). 


Spirit Super and Palisade Investment Partners Consortium – proposed acquisition of the Port of Geelong 
Page 5 of 15 
26. Port of Melbourne is owned by a consortium of QIC, Future Fund, Global 
Infrastructure Partners and OMERS.  
27. The Port of Hastings is located approximately 72 km south-east of Melbourne on 
Western Point Bay. It has two State-owned berths used for bulk liquids, a jetty 
and depot to support a range of industries and vessels, one berth available for 
common use and a decommissioned berth available for development. The port 
supports the import and export of crude oil, liquid petroleum gas, steel, and 
unleaded petrol. 
Industry background 
Bulk Cargo  
28. There are three main categories of bulk cargo: 
• 
Dry bulk cargo includes commodities such as grain, woodchips, fertiliser, 
mineral sands and cement clinker. Dry bulk cargo is generally transferred 
directly into or out of a bulk carrier. Some dry bulk cargo, such as grain and 
mineral sands, can also be transported in shipping containers as 
containerised freight. 
• 
Liquid bulk cargo refers to products that are required to be transported in 
a tanker such as crude oil, liquefied natural gas and liquified petroleum 
gas. 
• 
Break-bulk cargo refers to larger products such as timber, steel and 
windfarm equipment. Due to their size, these products are unable to be 
containerised. 
Port services 
29. In essence, ports provide facilities and associated services for the loading and 
unloading of goods between land and sea. Commercial ports provide their 
customers with a range of different port services for bulk cargo, including:  
• 
access to a berth to moor the vessel  
• 
access to landside infrastructure to facilitate the loading or unloading of 
cargo from the vessel  
• 
access to specialised equipment such as cranes, hoppers and grabs to 
facilitate the loading or unloading of cargo 
• 
ancillary services such as access to electricity or water for the vessel while 
it is moored 
• 
access to land and/or infrastructure for landside terminals or storage. 
30. There is variation between ports as to which services are offered and how each 
port charges for these services.   
Port regulation  
31. At present, neither port is subject to any price regulation. There is the possibility 
of regulation by the Victorian Essential Services Commission (ESC) or 
declaration under Part IIIA of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. The 


Spirit Super and Palisade Investment Partners Consortium – proposed acquisition of the Port of Geelong 
Page 6 of 15 
ACCC’s view is that these possibilities are unlikely to constrain the day-to-day 
conduct of the parties at either port.   
32. As this threat of port regulation exists with or without the proposed acquisition 
and is unlikely to constrain the day-to-day operations of the Port of Geelong and 
Port of Portland, the ACCC does not consider this topic in the competition 
assessment below. 
Integration with transport networks and costs 
33. Transport networks and transport costs are important factors, and for some 
customers the determining factor, of which port a customer will use. There can be 
a range of factors which contribute to transport costs, including:  
• 
road and rail network availability and congestion 
• 
distance  
• 
intermodal facilities  
• 
location and quality of inland warehousing or storage.  
34. Figure 1 below shows the four commercial ports in Victoria and key road and rail 
freight lines.  
Figure 1:  
Commercial ports in Victoria  
 
Source: Australian Competition and Consumer Commission, Notice in respect of a notification lodged by 
GeelongPort Pty Limited, 4 February 2008 


Spirit Super and Palisade Investment Partners Consortium – proposed acquisition of the Port of Geelong 
Page 7 of 15 
Previous ACCC decisions 
Port of Geelong privatisation 
35. The ACCC considered the sale of the Port of Geelong in 1996 and decided it 
would not oppose the transaction subject to a section 87B undertaking which is 
still in effect.  
Port of Portland Wheat Code Exemption Assessment 
36. On 3 September 2021, Port of Portland Limited provided a written application to 
the ACCC seeking to be determined an exempt service provider of port terminal 
services provided by means of its port terminal facility at Portland, Victoria, under 
the Port Terminal Access (Bulk Wheat) Code of Conduct. On 9 February 2022, 
the ACCC released a draft determination proposing to grant Port of Portland 
Limited exempt service provider status.  
Areas of overlap 
37. Port of Portland and the Port of Geelong overlap in the supply of port services for 
bulk cargo in Victoria. Both ports serve customers in the grain, timber, fertiliser 
and wind farm industries. 
38. There are some industries for which one or other of the ports does not have 
customers at present. Port of Geelong currently serves customers in the 
cement/clinker, bulk liquids and petroleum industries, which Port of Portland does 
not.  
39. Port of Portland serves customers in the aluminium industry, whereas Port of 
Geelong currently does not.  
Relevant markets 
40. The ACCC’s preliminary view on the relevant market is the supply of port 
services for bulk cargo in Victoria.  
41. The extent of substitutability between Port of Geelong, the Port of Portland, the 
Port of Melbourne and the Port of Hastings varies significantly by industry and by 
customer (in particular according to where the customer’s operations are 
located). On this basis it may also be appropriate to consider the likely 
competitive impact of the proposed acquisition in the context of different 
customer industries. The degree of competitive tension between ports may also 
change over time as capacity varies, long-term customers become contestable 
and the infrastructure at each port evolves. 
42. The ACCC will continue to consider the product and geographic dimensions of 
the market/s.  
Product market definition  
43. While different industries have different characteristics and port use 
requirements, the ACCC has focused on areas of likely competitive overlap 
between the parties now and in the future. Port of Geelong and Port of Portland 


Spirit Super and Palisade Investment Partners Consortium – proposed acquisition of the Port of Geelong 
Page 8 of 15 
supply similar port services with similar bulk cargo offerings, albeit to a range of 
different industries. 
44. There are complexities and variations in port use by various customers moving 
different types of bulk cargo via different types of equipment. For example, bulk 
fuels customers at Port of Geelong use fixed loading equipment and specialised 
berths, whereas for other products, such as grain or fertiliser, mobile and fixed 
loading equipment can be used. Each also have different requirements in terms 
of port-side storage.  
Geographic overlap varies between product categories  
45. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the geographic scope of the market is likely 
to be Victoria, however the extent to which different ports are substitutable will 
vary significantly for each customer.  
46. For some current customers of the Port of Portland and Port of Geelong, the Port 
of Melbourne and Port of Hastings may not be considered viable alternatives. 
Other customers seeking long-term agreements which involves the underwriting 
of significant port infrastructure may consider all Victorian ports as potential 
substitutes.   
47. While the Port of Geelong and Port of Portland are approximately 290 km from 
one another by road, there are customers who can use either port. These 
customers are contestable between the ports.  
48. The extent to which customers might substitute between the two ports can 
depend on a range of factors. These include transport costs, driven by the 
available transport networks and distance to the port, and the impact of seasonal 
conditions on crop yield.  
49. In addition to transport costs and seasonal factors, customers may have also 
entered into take or pay contractual arrangements with a port, and/or have made 
sunk investments in facilities at the port or further up the supply chain, which 
means substitution between the ports is only possible over a longer time frame. 
50. For certain port users, one or more of a combination of the above factors may 
mean there is only ever one “natural” port for their operations. However, for other 
customers, there is an ability to choose between the two ports, either in the short 
term or in the longer term.  
51. At this stage, the ACCC considers the product categories for which at least some 
volumes are contestable between the two ports in the short term are:  
• 
grain  
• 
fertiliser  
• 
timber  
• 
break bulk cargo, including wind farm cargo.  
52. For grain and fertiliser customers, there is likely to be greater substitutability 
between ports as freight costs are lower than other products so they can be 
economically transported over larger distances.  


Spirit Super and Palisade Investment Partners Consortium – proposed acquisition of the Port of Geelong 
Page 9 of 15 
53. For timber customers, transport costs are a relatively large portion of export 
costs, and significantly higher than port charges, so substitutability between ports 
is strongly influenced by transport costs. Plantations in the Otway region are 
highly contestable as the region sits between the two ports. There may be some 
contestability for plantations located elsewhere in the Central Victoria timber 
growing region and closer to Portland. 
54. Customer choice of port for timber may be influenced somewhat by the existence 
of take or pay contracts for some port users which may promote timber export 
from a port with higher freight costs than other alternatives. For example, the 
ACCC understands some woodchips are transported from the Green Triangle 
across to Port of Geelong, despite freight costs being significantly lower for 
transport to Port of Portland. 
55. Wind farm cargo can use either port and the choice of port will depend 
significantly on the location of the wind farm project. Demand from wind farm 
projects fluctuates depending on when wind farm developments are occurring. 
56. The ACCC is exploring whether other product categories may currently be 
contestable between the ports, including mineral sands export and soybean 
import. 
57. The ACCC also considers that over the longer term there is likely to be greater 
contestability across a larger group of customers and products, which the ACCC 
is continuing to explore.   
Alternative ports are not an option for some customers 
58. Port of Melbourne is geographically the closest substitute to the Port of Geelong 
for bulk cargo from the Melbourne region. It has access and storage limitations 
which may preclude it as a viable option for some customers.  
59. The Port of Melbourne’s 2050 Development Strategy anticipates growth in 
containerised trade. While the strategy also indicates the Port of Melbourne will 
increase its overall land use, it is unclear to what extent bulk cargo capacity at the 
port will be affected. However, market participants have expressed concerns that 
the Port of Melbourne will ultimately reduce its bulk and break-bulk cargo 
capacity in favour of containerised cargo.    
60. The Port of Hastings is unlikely to be a substitute for existing customers of Port of 
Geelong in the short term, due to its distance from these customers and limited 
bulk cargo offering. It may offer an alternative for long term customers investing 
in a new import or export operations in Victoria (such as proposed bulk fuels 
terminals). Market participants have suggested recent community concerns with 
respect to AGL’s proposed LNG import terminal may indicate Port of Hastings will 
not be a viable substitute for future long-term customers.   
Grain 
61. Grain export likely has the most alternatives to exporting via Port of Geelong or 
Port of Portland relative to other product categories.  
62. Graincorp Geelong is a substitute to the extent grain exporters can access its 
facility. While located within the boundaries of the Port of Geelong, the Graincorp 
Geelong facility is separate to the Port of Geelong and not part of the proposed 


Spirit Super and Palisade Investment Partners Consortium – proposed acquisition of the Port of Geelong 
Page 10 of 15 
acquisition. The ACCC understands third party access to this facility can be 
dependent on a range of factors, including the time of year and the extent to 
which capacity is booked under long-term agreements. 
63. In good seasons, and particularly when grain prices are high, export demand 
motivates customers to seek all available options and transport grain large 
distances. However, interstate ports such as Port Adelaide are unlikely to be 
material substitutes except in specific areas around certain rail lines.  
Issue that may raise concerns: Reduction in competition 
for long-term bulk cargo port customers  
64. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition may substantially 
lessen competition for the supply of port services for long term bulk cargo 
customers in Victoria. The ACCC has concerns that post-acquisition the 
overlapping ownership between Port of Geelong and Port of Portland may give 
rise to competition concerns for these customers because: 
• 
the common ownership could lessen incentives for competition between 
Port of Portland and Port of Geelong for customers both through existing 
facilities and future investments in infrastructure 
• 
existing long-term customers may be contestable at the end of contract 
terms and/or asset lives 
• 
potential new long-term customers are likely to consider Port of Geelong 
and Port of Portland to be viable alternatives  
• 
there are very few alternative options for bulk cargo port services in 
Victoria  
• 
there are high barriers to new port entry. 
Existing and potential new long-term customers  
65. Existing long-term customers of the two ports may not be contestable in the short 
term, due to take or pay contracts or sunk investments, but are much more likely 
to be so in the longer term, for example at the end of an asset life, lease or 
contract.  
66. Some customers may not be contestable between the ports at any time. Many 
port users have a ‘natural’ port for their operations. In particular, some port users 
serve customers in Melbourne and freight costs or customer accessibility prohibit 
Port of Portland as a viable option. This is the case for bulk liquids and trans-
Tasman passenger and vehicle transport for example.  
67. In its competition assessment for this matter, the ACCC is focussing on these 
long-term customers to the extent some are foreseeably contestable, for example 
in the next 10-20 years. 
68. There is also the potential for new long-term customers to require bulk port 
access in the future. These are customers with large sunk investments in 
infrastructure which are likely to be contestable one time at project 
commencement. New long-term bulk port customers might include projects for 


Spirit Super and Palisade Investment Partners Consortium – proposed acquisition of the Port of Geelong 
Page 11 of 15 
developing LNG import and/or hydrogen export facilities, or new fertiliser or 
cement/clinker import facilities.  
Competition for long term customers likely involves competitive bidding or 
negotiations 
69. Competition for long-term customers is likely to occur through competitive bidding 
or negotiations with prospective customers. Long term contracts and large 
investments are negotiated between the port and the prospective customer. 
Some customers may also be able to negotiate discounted general port charges.  
70. While not bulk cargo, a recent example of such competition is Port of Geelong 
securing a long-term contract with Spirit of Tasmania. In 2020, Spirit of Tasmania 
announced it would move its Victorian port operations from Station Pier at the 
Port of Melbourne to Corio Quay, at the Port of Geelong. The parties entered into 
a long-term partnership and Port of Geelong developed a dedicated 12-hectare 
terminal and freight facility for Spirit of Tasmania’s operations.  
71. At this stage, the ACCC has not identified similar examples of Port of Geelong 
and Port of Portland competing with one another to secure long term customers 
in the past 5 years.  
72. Nevertheless, there is the potential for future competition in this respect should 
existing long term customers have contracts ending or should a prospective 
customer require a large bulk cargo facility for which the two ports are suitable.  
There are few bulk ports suitable for large investments in Victoria  
73. As the ACCC is considering a broader geographic market for this issue, the four 
commercial ports in Victoria (Port of Geelong, Port of Portland, Port of Melbourne 
and Port of Hastings) are competitors. Each will be of varying suitability 
depending on the demands of the specific long-term customer.  
74. Due to their geographic locations and similar service offerings, Port of Geelong is 
likely to be the Port of Portland’s closest competitor. The same is unlikely to be 
the case for Port of Geelong, which competes most closely with Port of 
Melbourne due to their geographic proximity.   
75. In the long time frames the ACCC is considering for this issue, bulk cargo 
capacity at the Port of Melbourne may become constrained. As discussed above, 
market participants have submitted this is likely as container cargo expands at 
the port under the Port of Melbourne 2050 Port Development Strategy.  
76. For new long-term customers, Port of Hastings may be a competitive alternative. 
The Port of Hastings 2018 Port Development Strategy identified the possibility of 
establishing in the long-term a flexible and multi-purpose facility with 2-3 berths 
supporting break-bulk, dry bulk and liquid bulk cargo. However, the recent 
community concerns with respect to AGL’s proposed LNG import facility suggest 
the area may not be viable for all potential customers and market feedback has 
indicated that this port is not viable for some customers.  
There are very high barriers to new port entry or expansion 
77. Port of Geelong and Port of Portland are unlikely to be competitively constrained 
by the threat of new port entry in the foreseeable future. It is unlikely that a new 


Spirit Super and Palisade Investment Partners Consortium – proposed acquisition of the Port of Geelong 
Page 12 of 15 
port will be developed, or an existing port will expand or redevelop its existing 
infrastructure for dry bulk or break-bulk cargo, in the next few decades. 
78. In recent years, containerised freight has been a focus for further infrastructure 
development. In 2017, Infrastructure Victoria recommended that the Port of 
Melbourne expand its capacity for containerised freight and also made 
recommendations regarding a second container port at Bay West to commence 
from 2055. The Victorian Government has committed to providing direction on a 
second container port as part of its Victorian Commercial Ports Strategy. To the 
ACCC’s knowledge, no similar commitment has been made with respect to 
creating additional bulk cargo port capacity in Victoria.  
Minority interest may not prevent anti-competitive effects  
79. Post-acquisition, Palisade would control 100% of the Port of Portland and 49% of 
the Port of Geelong. This would include overlapping interests in both ports and 
other interests Palisade manages on behalf of other investors.  
80. The ACCC is concerned that this has the potential to lead to reduced competition 
or increased coordination between the two ports, which could take the form of 
increased prices, reduced future investment or the ports specialising only in 
serving certain industries.  
81. Palisade will control a substantial shareholding of the Port of Geelong, and will be 
in a position to exert influence over decision making. The ACCC is continuing to 
explore the extent of Palisade’s control of Port of Geelong post-acquisition.  
82. Further to the control and influence that Palisade would have over the Port of 
Geelong, the Palisade controlled minority shareholding in Port of Geelong may 
also reduce the incentive for Port of Portland to win customers from Port of 
Geelong. Knowing this (and in combination with Palisade’s degree of influence 
over the Port of Geelong), the Port of Portland may not seek to win customers 
from Port of Geelong as aggressively as it otherwise would, to the mutual benefit 
of both ports.  
83. The minority shareholding may also increase the ability and incentive for Port of 
Geelong and Port of Portland to tacitly coordinate. The common shareholding 
and potential for information sharing may facilitate tacit coordination.  
ACCC’s preliminary views 
84. The ACCC is concerned that the common ownership between Port of Portland 
and Port of Geelong post-acquisition, albeit involving minority interests, may 
substantially reduce the level of competition for long-term bulk port customers.  
85. Port infrastructure is critical to the economy and there are limited options 
available for long term bulk cargo port customers in Victoria. Market participants 
have submitted Port of Melbourne will become increasingly capacity constrained 
for bulk cargo over the 10-20 year period the ACCC is considering.  
86. Competitive tension between Port of Geelong and Port of Portland could mean 
the difference between a significant project proceeding or not. Any potential 
substantial lessening of competition in this industry has the potential for 
significant impacts on a range of industries.  


Spirit Super and Palisade Investment Partners Consortium – proposed acquisition of the Port of Geelong 
Page 13 of 15 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to the 
supply of port services for bulk cargo to long-term customers. In particular, market 
participants may wish to comment on the following: 
• 
whether there are past examples of Victorian ports competing to attract long term 
customers  
• 
whether there are identifiable opportunities in the next 10-20 years on which Port 
of Geelong and Port of Portland are likely to compete, and whether Port of 
Melbourne or Port of Hastings will be viable alternatives for these opportunities  
• 
the nature and process of competition between ports for long-term customers (for 
example, what ports will offer to prospective customers to attract them to a port) 
• 
whether the minority overlapping interests are likely to mitigate competition 
concerns.   
Issue that may raise concerns: Reduction in competition 
for the supply of port services for bulk cargo in Victoria  
87. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition may substantially 
lessen competition for the supply of port services for bulk cargo in Victoria. The 
ACCC is concerned that post-acquisition the overlapping ownership between Port 
of Geelong and Port of Portland may give rise to competition concerns because: 
• 
Port of Geelong and Port of Portland are competitors for certain dry bulk 
and break-bulk customers 
• 
for some customers, the only viable options for bulk cargo port services are 
Port of Geelong and Port of Portland.  
The extent of head-to-head competitive tension is unclear  
88. While there are product categories with volumes substitutable between Port of 
Geelong and Port of Portland, the ACCC is considering the materiality of the 
overlap and consequently the degree of head-to-head competition between the 
ports for these volumes.  
89. For volumes contestable in the short term, the Port of Geelong and Port of 
Portland have incentives to maximise volume through their ports. Some port 
charges are volume based and both ports have common user berths.  
90. Market participants have submitted they use competitive tension between the 
ports to obtain better price or service outcomes. However, the ACCC is 
considering the extent to which competitive tension has influenced port decision 
making, both on price and non-price terms. Non-price aspects to competition 
between ports occurs through, for example, berth access and congestion.  
91. There may be a range of factors for this lack of clear competitive tension despite 
product categories being contestable between the ports. The contestable overlap 
may be too small to influence the parties’ conduct. Market participants may not 
be sensitive to increases in port charges, for example if port charges are a 
relatively small portion of total costs. Take-or-pay contracts may diminish short 


Spirit Super and Palisade Investment Partners Consortium – proposed acquisition of the Port of Geelong 
Page 14 of 15 
term incentives for the ports to limit price increases as substantial revenues are 
locked in regardless of volume.  
92. This is an issue the ACCC will explore further, including to examine the 
materiality of the competitive tension between the parties, the impact of take-or-
pay contracts and product or port specific bases on which competition occurs.  
There are very high barriers to entry for new ports  
93. Please refer to discussion on this topic above.  
Minority interest may not prevent anti-competitive effects  
94. Please refer to discussion on this topic above.  
ACCC’s preliminary views 
95. In summary, the ACCC is concerned that the common ownership, albeit minority 
interest in one port, between Victoria’s two main bulk freight ports may reduce 
incentives to compete for contestable volumes of certain products. For at least 
some customers, the Port of Geelong and Port of Portland are the only viable 
options.  
96. However, the ACCC is also considering the extent to which the ports compete 
with one another for commodity throughput at present and, therefore, whether 
any lessening of competition is likely to be substantial as required by section 50 
of the Act.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to the 
supply of port services for bulk cargo. In particular, market participants may wish to 
comment on the following: 
• 
the extent to which Port of Geelong and Port of Portland compete (now or in the 
future) for specific product categories (grain, timber etc.) 
• 
the extent to which the following influence a port user’s decision with respect to 
which port they use: transport networks and costs, port fees, ease of access, 
congestion storage facilities  
• 
volumes of grain, timber, fertiliser and wind farm which are contestable between 
the two ports, and other Victorian or interstate ports  
• 
whether and to what extent competitive tension between the ports has impacted 
their price or service offering, with specific examples to the extent possible  
• 
how customers engage with the ports to resist increases in price or reductions in 
service.  
ACCC's future steps 
97. As noted above, the ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on 
each of the issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue 
that may be relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. Submissions are 
to be received by the ACCC no later than 5.00pm on 14 April 2022 and should be 


Spirit Super and Palisade Investment Partners Consortium – proposed acquisition of the Port of Geelong 
Page 15 of 15 
emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: Submission re: Spirit Palisade 
Consortium proposed acquisition of Port of Geelong - attention Emma 
Moulds/Sidd Sharma. 
98. The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
99. The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 9 June 2022. However, 
the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Informal Merger Review 
Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose of 
explaining the ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's public 
announcement to explain its final view. 
