 
Page 1 of 22 
 
Statement of Issues 
5 June 2014 
Elgas Limited - proposed acquisition of Wesfarmers 
Kleenheat Gas Pty Ltd's east coast LPG assets 
Introduction 
1. 
Outlined below is the Statement of Issues released by the Australian 
Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) on the proposed acquisition of 
Wesfarmers Kleenheat Gas Pty Ltd's (Kleenheat) east coast Liquefied 
Petroleum Gas (LPG) assets by Elgas Limited (Elgas) (proposed acquisition). 
2. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well 
as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
3. 
In line with the ACCC’s Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines (at 
www.accc.gov.au/processguidelines) the ACCC has established a secondary 
timeline for further consideration of the issues. The ACCC anticipates completing 
further market inquiries by 26 June 2014 and anticipates making a final decision 
by 24 July 2014. However, the anticipated timeline can change in line with the 
Merger Review Process Guidelines. To keep abreast of possible changes in 
relation to timing and to find relevant documents, market participants should visit 
the Mergers Register on the ACCC's website at 
www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
4. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 
Background 
5. 
On 10 April 2014, the ACCC commenced a public review of the proposed 
acquisition after receiving a submission from Elgas seeking informal clearance 
from the ACCC. 


Elgas Limited - proposed acquisition of Wesfarmers Kleenheat Gas Pty Ltd’s 
east coast LPG assets 
 
Page 2 of 22 
The merger parties & industry participants 
Elgas Limited 
6. 
Elgas is a major wholesaler and distributor of automotive and non-automotive 
LPG in Australia. It uses a range of transport options and storage facilities to 
supply LPG in both cylinders and bulk to a variety of customer segments. Elgas 
is a member of the BOC Group of companies, which is owned by the Linde 
Group, an international gases and engineering company. 
7. 
Elgas owns and operates the Elgas Cavern, which is a major LPG import and 
storage facility in Sydney. Elgas also owns and operates a network of terminal 
and depot facilities throughout Australia. 
Wesfarmers Kleenheat Gas Pty Ltd 
8. 
Kleenheat is a major wholesaler and distributor of automotive and non-
automotive LPG in Australia, supplying LPG in cylinders and bulk to all customer 
segments. Kleenheat is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Wesfarmers Limited and is 
part of Wesfarmers’ Chemicals, Energy & Fertiliser division. Wesfarmers Limited 
is listed on the Australian Securities Exchange. 
9. 
Kleenheat owns a production facility in Perth and operates an extensive network 
of terminal and depot facilities throughout Australia. It is one of the two largest 
competitors to Elgas in LPG, the other being Origin Energy Limited (Origin). 
Origin Energy Limited 
10. 
Origin is a national energy retailer which wholesales and distributes automotive 
and non-automotive LPG (bulk and cylinder) to a variety of customer segments. 
Origin has LPG operations in all Australian states and territories; it owns and 
operates seven seaboard terminals on the east coast of Australia, and a network 
of terminal and depot facilities throughout Australia. Origin is listed on the 
Australian Securities Exchange. Origin operates its LPG businesses under the 
following four brands: Origin LPG, Speed-e-gas, Powergas and Quickswap. 
Other industry participants 
11. 
Supagas Pty Ltd (Supagas) is a non-automotive LPG distributor (bulk and 
cylinder) operating in Victoria, South Australia, Tasmania, Northern Territory, 
and Western Australia. It operates a number of depot facilities within these 
states and territories. Supagas is a private company which began in Melbourne 
in 1968 under the name of Australian Forklifts. 
12. 
Renegade Gas Pty Ltd (Renegade) is a non-automotive LPG distributor (bulk 
and cylinder) operating in New South Wales, Queensland, and the Australian 
Capital Territory. It operates a number of depot facilities within these states and 
territories. Renegade is a private company which was established in 1997. 
Renegade trades under the name “Supagas”, but is a separate entity and 
business from Supagas Pty Ltd. 
13. 
United Gas is a non-automotive LPG distributor (bulk and cylinder) operating in 
South Australia and Victoria. The ACCC understands that United Gas was 
acquired by Arcadia Energy Trading Limited (AET) around 18 months ago. AET 
is a wholesale commodity trader specialising in the energy sector; it is part of the 
global Farahead Group of companies which owns major oil shipping and 
physical oil trading companies worldwide. 


Elgas Limited - proposed acquisition of Wesfarmers Kleenheat Gas Pty Ltd’s 
east coast LPG assets 
 
Page 3 of 22 
14. 
Direct Gas is a non-automotive LPG distributor (bulk and cylinder) operating in 
Dandenong, Victoria. Direct Gas began supplying non-automotive LPG about 
two years ago. 
15. 
Air Liquide Australia is a member of the Air Liquide Group, an international 
industrial gas company. In Australia, Air Liquide Australia’s business is 
predominantly in industrial gases, but currently distributes non-automotive LPG 
(cylinder only) in Sydney. 
The transaction 
16. 
On 10 April 2014, Elgas announced a proposal to acquire the east coast LPG 
assets of Kleenheat. The proposed acquisition is subject to a condition 
precedent which requires informal merger clearance from the ACCC. For the 
purposes of the transaction (and this Statement of Issues), ‘east coast’ refers to 
Queensland, New South Wales, the Australian Capital Territory, Victoria, 
Tasmania and South Australia. Kleenheat will retain its LPG assets in Western 
Australia and Northern Territory. 
Market inquiries 
17. 
On 10 April 2014, the ACCC commenced market inquiries regarding the 
proposed acquisition. A range of interested parties provided responses, including 
wholesalers and distributors of LPG, dealers and customers (residential, 
commercial and industrial). 
With/without test  
18. 
Section 50 of the Act prohibits mergers or acquisitions that would have the effect 
or be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
In assessing a proposed acquisition pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC 
considers the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future competitive 
environment post-acquisition if the acquisition proceeds (the “with” position) to 
the likely future competitive environment if the acquisition does not proceed (the 
“without” position) to determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in any relevant market. 
19. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that without the proposed acquisition, Kleenheat 
would continue to operate its LPG assets on the east coast independently of 
Elgas. Therefore, the likely competition effects of the proposed transaction are 
most appropriately assessed against a future in which competition remains 
broadly as it currently stands (the status quo). 
Industry background 
20. 
LPG is the generic name for mixtures of light hydrocarbon gas, consisting mainly 
of propane and butane, or propane only. LPG can be stored and transported by 
different methods, including by sea, road, or pipeline to bulk storage facilities. 
The LPG supply chain in Australia, in particular the east coast, is further 
explained below at [23-51]. 
21. 
There are many different levels in the supply chains for LPG, and the supply 
chains vary widely. Although the definitions are not always precise, for the 
purposes of the ACCC’s competition assessment: 
a. “Wholesale supply” is the supply of LPG from a production or 
importation facility. Industry participants that are supplying someone 


Elgas Limited - proposed acquisition of Wesfarmers Kleenheat Gas Pty Ltd’s 
east coast LPG assets 
 
Page 4 of 22 
from refineries, gas production facilities or import terminals are 
engaging in wholesale supply. 
b. “Distributors” of LPG refer to those that purchase wholesale LPG and 
then typically truck, pipe or ship (or a combination of these) the LPG to 
depots. The depots typically store around 20 to 100 tonnes of LPG on 
site and are used to fill bottles or smaller trucks for distribution. The key 
distributors are Elgas, Kleenheat, and Origin. Elgas and Origin are also 
wholesalers to other distributors and each other on the east coast (and 
Kleenheat may also be to some extent, as discussed below at [113-
114]). They are the only vertically integrated (with wholesale supply) 
participants in the industry. 
c. Dealers and agents act as intermediaries between LPG distributors and 
end users. Distributors engage such intermediaries for some customers 
(e.g. to reach end users located at a distance from the distributor’s 
depot). The business model for such intermediaries varies: some sell 
gas on commission as an agent of the distributor; others acquire gas 
from the distributor and resell it at a profit. 
22. 
Not all of the above steps in the supply chain are always followed. For example, 
some LPG will be delivered directly from the source of wholesale supply to the 
end customer (especially in the case of large customers). 
Production and importation of LPG 
23. 
LPG enters the Australian supply chain at the point of production or via imports 
(discussed below at [25-40]). 
24. 
Australia is also an exporter of LPG, via export facilities located in Westernport in 
Victoria, Port Bonython in South Australia, and Kwinana and Dampier in Western 
Australia. As such, local producers’ wholesale LPG prices are influenced by the 
world price. 
Production of LPG 
25. 
LPG is produced: 
a. directly through the processing of crude oil and natural gas 
b. as a by-product of refining crude oil. 
26. 
Crude oil and natural gas processing plants, as well as the majority of oil 
refineries, typically produce and store propane and butane separately. They 
supply the propane to the non-automotive LPG industry and also supply propane 
or propane/butane mix to the automotive LPG industry. 
27. 
Major companies involved in producing LPG from oil and gas fields on the east 
coast of Australia include: 
a. the Otway Gas Project (a joint venture between Origin, Benaris and 
CalEnergy; the gas processing plant is located in Port Campbell, 
Victoria) 
b. the BassGas Project (a joint venture between Origin, AWE Limited and 
Toyota Tsusho Gas E&P Trefoil Pty Ltd; the gas is extracted from the 
Yolla gas field in Bass Strait and piped to a gas processing plant in 
Lang Lang, Victoria) 


Elgas Limited - proposed acquisition of Wesfarmers Kleenheat Gas Pty Ltd’s 
east coast LPG assets 
 
Page 5 of 22 
c. ExxonMobil (the Long Island Point plant at Hastings, Victoria, carries 
out the final stage in LPG processing of Bass Strait oil and gas piped 
from the Longford plants near Sale, Victoria) 
d. Port Bonython (a joint venture between Santos (operator), Delhi and 
Origin; a plant near Whyalla, South Australia, processes gas piped from 
the Cooper Basin). 
28. 
Kleenheat owns an LPG extraction plant in Kwinana, in Perth. This plant is 
regarded as the major source of LPG in Western Australia. The other LPG 
extraction plant in Western Australia is the North West Shelf Project at Karratha, 
operated by Woodside Energy. 
29. 
Refining companies producing LPG on the east coast of Australia include: 
a. BP (at its refinery on Bulwer Island in Brisbane, Queensland) 
b. Shell (at its refinery in Geelong, Victoria) 
c. Mobil (at its refinery in Altona, Victoria) 
d. Caltex (at its refineries at Kurnell in Sydney, New South Wales and at 
Lytton in Brisbane, Queensland). 
30. 
Shell announced in February 2014 that it will sell its downstream business 
(including the Geelong refinery) to Vitol. 
31. 
The ACCC also notes that: 
a. Shell’s Clyde refinery in Sydney has recently closed 
b. the Caltex refinery in Kurnell is due to close in in the second half of 
2014, and that it is currently only supplying a propane/butane mix for 
the automotive LPG market 
c. BP has announced the closure of its Bulwer Island refinery in 2015.  
32. 
These refineries have historically supplied wholesale LPG. 
33. 
Market participants have indicated that LPG producers typically require their 
customers to take a large volume of LPG, and do so reliably. Producers need to 
dispose of the LPG produced as a by-product of their main activity: otherwise, 
they risk needing to stop production when their storage reaches capacity. 
Therefore producers favour contracts with large downstream LPG distributors 
who can commit to regular offtake. 
LPG imports 
34. 
LPG is imported (mostly from the Middle East) in shipments and stored at an 
import terminal. 
35. 
Elgas owns and operates the ‘Cavern’, located at Port Botany, New South 
Wales. It is the largest LPG import storage terminal on the east coast, with a 
65,000 tonne underground storage capacity. The Cavern is capable of receiving 
large volumes of LPG from very large gas ships. 
36. 
Origin also operates a smaller import storage facility at Port Botany (4,200 tonne 
pressurised storage terminal), and ships LPG from various sources to other 
smaller terminals it owns along the Queensland coast, Darwin and Tasmania. 
37. 
In addition, Origin’s overseas supplier, GeoGAS, operates a floating storage 
vessel off the coast of Queensland. This vessel acts as a feeder vessel for 


Elgas Limited - proposed acquisition of Wesfarmers Kleenheat Gas Pty Ltd’s 
east coast LPG assets 
 
Page 6 of 22 
Origin’s ships servicing smaller terminals located in Darwin, Cairns, Townsville, 
Gladstone, Brisbane, Devonport, New Zealand, Papua New Guinea, and the 
Pacific Islands. Tasmania imports all its LPG from Victoria via Origin’s small 
import facilities. 
38. 
Kleenheat also owns a small import facility at Kwinana. This is the only LPG 
import facility in Western Australia. 
39. 
Market inquiries indicate that import terminals impose minimum purchase 
amounts on their customers. Typically, downstream distributors enter into annual 
contracts with maximum and minimum monthly offtake amounts. 
Location of major wholesale supply points 
40. 
The map below depicts the location of the major LPG wholesale supply points 
discussed above. 
Map 1: Major LPG wholesale supply points in Australia 
 
Distribution and supply network 
41. 
Within Australia LPG is generally transported by road and supported by an 
extensive network of supply, storage and distribution infrastructure. This 
infrastructure is developed around the multiple uses of LPG and to meet the 
needs of different customers. Broadly, the multiple uses of LPG in Australia can 
be characterised into two main streams: 
a. automotive, often referred to in the industry as ‘autogas’ 


Elgas Limited - proposed acquisition of Wesfarmers Kleenheat Gas Pty Ltd’s 
east coast LPG assets 
 
Page 7 of 22 
b. non-automotive, often referred to in the industry as ‘traditional LPG’. 
Automotive LPG 
42. 
Automotive LPG may consist of a mix of butane and propane, or propane only. It 
is used as a fuel in the automotive sector. Automotive LPG is distributed in bulk 
using large road tankers to large customers such as service stations and other 
bulk automotive LPG customers. 
Non-automotive LPG 
43. 
Non-automotive LPG is predominantly propane and has a variety of different end 
uses, including for domestic uses (e.g. heating, hot water systems, and cooking), 
leisure uses (e.g. barbeque and camping), industrial and commercial (e.g. 
commercial cooking, industrial heating, and powering forklift vehicles). 
44. 
Non-automotive LPG is generally supplied wholesale from a production facility or 
import terminal and transported in bulk using large tanker trucks to a depot 
where it is stored in a storage vessel for subsequent onward distribution (in 
some cases it could be transported directly to a large bulk customer). 
45. 
Within non-automotive LPG, the two main methods of supply are: 
a. bulk supply – the supply of LPG via tanker trucks which refill tanks 
installed permanently at the customer premises 
b. cylinder supply – the supply of LPG to customers in pre-filled cylinders. 
46. 
Most depots have the ability to provide both bulk and cylinder services (although 
some smaller distributors only supply cylinder services). 
Bulk LPG 
47. 
Bulk LPG is supplied to residential and small to large commercial and industrial 
customers. Customers store LPG in tanks ranging from 190kg to 50 tonnes. 
Most of the demand comes from commercial and industrial customers, with 
smaller volumes derived from residential customers. 
48. 
Bulk LPG is transported in bulk tanker trucks, ranging from a 5 tonne “Rigid” 
tanker truck to a 34 tonne “B-Double” tanker truck. 
Cylinder LPG 
49. 
Cylinder LPG is supplied in different sizes, including: 
a. 9kg cylinders for leisure customers (e.g. for use with BBQs) 
b. 15kg cylinders for forklift cylinder customers 
c. 45kg cylinder for residential and some commercial/industrial customers. 
50. 
The cylinders are serviced and re-filled at depots which often have cylinder 
testing, filling and refurbishment capabilities. Cylinders are then transported by 
flatbed trucks and/or utility vehicles to customers or agents. Supply to the end 
customer can be either directly or via an agent or dealer: 
a. Under an agent model, the distributor sets the price, and the agent 
receives a commission for their delivery services. 
b. Under a dealer model, the distributor sells the dealer a large quantity of 
cylinder non-automotive LPG, and the dealer sets a retail price for its 
own customers (in essence, the dealer is a customer of the distributor). 


Elgas Limited - proposed acquisition of Wesfarmers Kleenheat Gas Pty Ltd’s 
east coast LPG assets 
 
Page 8 of 22 
51. 
For leisure cylinders (e.g. 9kg), individual customers generally purchase and pick 
up cylinders from an outlet such as a hardware store or petrol service station. 
Empty cylinders can be refilled or (more commonly) swapped for full cylinders at 
these outlets. Some distributors, agents, or dealers may also retail LPG leisure 
cylinders from their depots. Large national retailers (such as national chains of 
hardware stores and petrol service stations) are the largest providers of leisure 
cylinders. 
Areas of overlap 
52. 
The ACCC’s starting point for delineating relevant markets to assess the 
competition effects of the proposed acquisition involves identifying the products 
actually or potentially supplied by the merger parties. The ACCC then considers 
the overlap between the merger parties’ products and whether other products 
constitute sufficiently close substitutes to provide a significant source of 
constraint on the merged entity. 
53. 
Following its inquiries the ACCC considers that the parties to the proposed 
acquisition currently overlap (compete with each other) in the following activities 
on the east coast of Australia: 
a. wholesale supply of LPG 
b. distribution of non-automotive LPG 
c. distribution of automotive LPG. 
Market definition  
54. 
Pending further information from interested parties, the ACCC’s preliminary view 
is that the relevant markets for assessing the competition effects of the merger 
are: 
a. State-wide markets for the wholesale supply of LPG 
b. Regional markets for distribution of non-automotive LPG in bulk 
c. Regional markets for the distribution of non-automotive LPG in cylinders 
(this market is discussed together with the regional markets for the 
distribution of non-automotive LPG in bulk) 
d. A national market for distribution of non-automotive LPG to large 
national customers 
e. Markets for the supply of automotive LPG (the ACCC has not defined 
the geographical scope of these markets precisely, as discussed at [70] 
below). 
State-wide markets for the wholesale supply of LPG 
55. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view, based on its market inquiries to date, is that there 
are likely to be state-wide markets for the wholesale supply of LPG. 
56. 
However, the ACCC has also considered whether a broader east coast 
wholesale market is more appropriate. 
57. 
The ACCC’s market inquiries to date suggest that LPG may be economically 
transported across states and regions, depending on regional prices. For 
example, some market participants have submitted that in some instances 
distributors have found it more economical to transport LPG from a refinery in 


Elgas Limited - proposed acquisition of Wesfarmers Kleenheat Gas Pty Ltd’s 
east coast LPG assets 
 
Page 9 of 22 
Victoria to its operations in New South Wales, than to purchase LPG from a New 
South Wales source. However, other market participants indicate that there are 
limits on the economics of such bulk overland transport, suggesting there may 
be state-based markets rather than an east coast market. 
58. 
The ACCC’s market inquiries indicate that the wholesale LPG price differs 
between states on the east coast, at least in part due to differences in the supply 
and demand conditions in each state. This tends to support the existence of 
state-based markets. 
59. 
The ACCC recognises that such state-based markets are unlikely to be defined 
precisely by official state boundaries. For example, northern New South Wales is 
more likely to be supplied by sources in Brisbane rather than the more distant 
Sydney. 
Regional markets for distribution of non-automotive LPG in bulk 
and in cylinders 
60. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view, based on its market inquiries to date, is that there 
are likely to be regional markets for the distribution of non-automotive LPG in 
bulk and in cylinders. 
Product dimension 
61. 
As explained above at [44-51], non-automotive LPG can be supplied in bulk or 
various types of cylinder, and to a variety of customer segments. 
62. 
The ACCC considers that it is appropriate for the purposes of this assessment to 
consider all cylinder forms and sizes to be in the same market: 
a. Demand side substitutability between cylinder sizes is likely to be 
limited for most users (e.g. a user of a 15kg forklift cylinder cannot 
readily switch to a 9kg leisure cylinder). 
b. However, market inquiries indicate there is supply side substitutability 
between cylinder sizes. There are variations between cylinder types 
and their filling methods. However, cylinder distributors normally supply 
a range of cylinders, and the transport mechanisms are similar between 
cylinder types.  
63. 
The ACCC has considered whether the distribution of non-automotive LPG in 
bulk is in the same market as the distribution of non-automotive LPG in 
cylinders, or whether there are separate markets. The ACCC’s market inquiries 
to date suggest they could be in separate markets: 
a. Supply side substitution is limited because distributors of cylinder LPG 
cannot readily switch to distributing bulk LPG. They may lack the scale 
to justify purchasing and running bulk LPG tanker trucks, and may also 
need to invest in additional storage. There are also additional health 
and safety requirements, and additional costs related to handling, 
training and compliance, for bulk supply. However, the ACCC 
recognises that several of the smaller distributors (Supagas, Renegade, 
United Gas and Direct Gas) have established sufficient scale over time 
to distribute bulk LPG. 
b. Supply side substitution from bulk to cylinder LPG distribution may be 
easier than from cylinder to bulk. However, the ACCC understands that 


Elgas Limited - proposed acquisition of Wesfarmers Kleenheat Gas Pty Ltd’s 
east coast LPG assets 
 
Page 10 of 22 
distributors typically start their business by supplying cylinder LPG and 
then expand into supplying both cylinder and bulk LPG.  
c. Demand side substitutability between bulk and cylinder LPG is limited 
for many customers. Large customers cannot use cylinders due to the 
small size, and many small customers would not use enough LPG to 
justify the substantial cost of installing an on-site tank to receive bulk 
distribution. Some large cylinder or small bulk customers may be able to 
switch between the two forms of distribution, but market inquiries 
suggest these are a relatively small minority. 
64. 
Although distribution of non-automotive LPG in bulk and cylinder are likely to be 
in separate markets, the ACCC considers it appropriate to assess both markets 
together. The key distributors and their respective market positions are generally 
the same in both markets, the distribution networks are similar and there are 
overlaps in the entry requirements for each market. 
Geographic dimension 
65. 
Market inquiries suggest distributors of non-automotive LPG compete in regional 
markets, based around the location of depot facilities. As explained above at 
[41], non-automotive LPG is typically distributed to customers from a depot or 
dealer. The ACCC understands from its market inquiries that the geographical 
reach of a distributor, its agent, or a dealer, depends mostly on the location of 
the depot facility and how far non-automotive LPG could be economically 
transported from that depot. Market inquiries suggest the economic delivery 
range is around 100km from a depot, although this can be extended by the use 
of dealers to distribute cylinder LPG further afield. 
66. 
However, the ACCC’s market inquiries to date indicate that it is appropriate to 
consider the distribution of non-automotive LPG to large national customers in a 
separate market from other LPG customer segments. This market is discussed 
below. 
National market for distribution of non-automotive LPG to large 
national customers 
67. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view, based on its market inquiries to date, is that there 
is likely to be a separate national market for the distribution of non-automotive 
LPG to large national customers. 
68. 
The ACCC’s market inquiries to date suggest there is a separate market for 
distribution of non-automotive LPG to large customers with a nationwide 
business. Such customers may have a need for various non-automotive LPG 
products, including bulk and cylinder LPG. This customer segment prefers a 
distributor with a comprehensive national distribution network, with both regional 
and metropolitan coverage. That is, a distributor currently operating in one region 
or several regions may not necessarily be able to service a large national 
customer if it does not have a comprehensive national network. 
Markets for the supply of automotive LPG 
69. 
The ACCC considers automotive LPG and non-automotive LPG to be in 
separate product markets: 


Elgas Limited - proposed acquisition of Wesfarmers Kleenheat Gas Pty Ltd’s 
east coast LPG assets 
 
Page 11 of 22 
a. While non-automotive LPG can sometimes be used in place of 
automotive LPG, automotive LPG is not a substitute for non-automotive 
LPG (butane is not safe for use in non-automotive applications). 
b. The distribution models for automotive LPG differ from the distribution 
models for non-automotive LPG. 
70. 
Given that market inquiries have raised few concerns in relation to automotive 
LPG, the ACCC has not defined the geographical or functional scope of these 
markets for this Statement of Issues. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its proposed definition of the 
relevant markets. In particular market participants may wish to comment on: 
 
1) 
Are the relevant markets identified by the ACCC the appropriate markets for the 
competition assessment of the proposed acquisition (in product, functional and 
geographic terms)? Please provide an explanation for your response. 
 
2) 
Is it economical to transport LPG between states (e.g. to Queensland from 
wholesale supply points in Victoria or New South Wales)? If so, please discuss 
the costs and benefits of doing so, and provide examples of a distributor who 
has transported LPG in this manner. 
 
3) 
How difficult is it for a distributor of non-automotive LPG only in cylinders to 
begin distributing in bulk, and vice versa? 
 
4) 
If a small but significant, non-transitory increase in the price of non-automotive 
LPG (of 5 or 10 per cent) occurred in a regional area, would distributors from 
elsewhere begin distributing in that region? If so, from how far would such supply 
be likely to come? What are the factors relevant in determining this distance (e.g. 
the size of the depot, the population density, the road network, whether the LPG 
is in bulk or cylinder)? 
 
5) 
Should distribution of non-automotive LPG to large national customers be 
considered in a separate market? Why or why not? If so, what aspect of this 
distribution is different from distribution of non-automotive LPG to other 
customers? 
 
Statement of issues 
71. 
For the purposes of this Statement of Issues, the issues in this matter are 
divided into three categories, 'issues of concern', 'issues that may raise 
concerns' and 'issues unlikely to pose concerns'. 
Issues of concern 
Competition for the distribution of non-automotive LPG (in bulk and 
cylinder) in regional markets 
72. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is likely to result in 
a substantial lessening of competition in the distribution of non-automotive LPG 
on the east coast of Australia, particularly in certain regional markets. 
73. 
The ACCC has considered both horizontal and vertical effects. 


Elgas Limited - proposed acquisition of Wesfarmers Kleenheat Gas Pty Ltd’s 
east coast LPG assets 
 
Page 12 of 22 
Horizontal effects 
74. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that, by aggregating two of the three largest 
distributors of non-automotive LPG, the proposed acquisition has the potential to 
lessen competition by: 
a. enhancing the ability and incentive of the merged entity to raise prices 
and/or reduce service levels in the distribution of non-automotive LPG 
b. increasing the likelihood or stability of co-ordinated conduct 
c. increasing barriers to entry (to new entrants) and expansion (by existing 
rivals) in the distribution of non-automotive LPG. 
75. 
This section sets out a number of factors relevant to the ACCC’s preliminary 
assessment of whether the proposed acquisition is likely to substantially lessen 
competition in these markets. These factors include the level of concentration in 
the market, barriers to entry and expansion by competitors, and the extent to 
which customers may have countervailing power due to the ability to credibly 
threaten to bypass the merged entity or switch to an alternative distributor in the 
event that the merged entity raises prices or reduces the level of service. 
Market concentration 
76. 
The major distributors of non-automotive LPG (in both bulk and cylinder forms) 
are Elgas, Kleenheat and Origin. These major distributors operate on a national 
basis, and have extensive agent and/or dealer networks in metropolitan and 
regional areas (although some market participants have suggested that Origin 
has a smaller presence in some rural areas). 
77. 
There are several smaller distributors of non-automotive LPG (in both bulk and 
cylinder forms), the largest of these being Supagas, Renegade, United Gas and 
Direct Gas. Some smaller distributors such as Air Liquide Australia only 
distribute cylinder LPG, due to the larger capital requirements to establish bulk 
storage and transport facilities. The ACCC understands from its market inquiries 
that these distributors do not operate on a national level; they tend to focus on 
particular metropolitan and/or major industrial areas, with coverage in relatively 
few regional or rural towns. 
78. 
The ACCC’s market inquiries indicate that Elgas and Kleenheat are two of the 
three largest distributors of non-automotive LPG in bulk and cylinder forms in 
each state or territory on the east coast. Together, the largest three distributors 
have around 90 per cent of the non-automotive LPG in each state or territory on 
the east coast (for bulk and cylinder LPG). The proposed acquisition would 
therefore lead to a substantial increase in market concentration. More 
specifically: 
a. Taking the east coast as a whole, the proposed acquisition would 
reduce the number of major suppliers from three to two. The same is 
true in each state or territory. 
b. The merged entity would be the largest distributor of cylinder non-
automotive LPG in all eastern states except Tasmania. In New South 
Wales and Victoria, the merged entity would be the largest distributor by 
a significant margin, with over 60% market share in each state. 
c. The merged entity would be the largest distributor of bulk non-
automotive LPG in New South Wales (followed closely by Origin), and 
Victoria (followed by Origin, and then Supagas). In Queensland, South 


Elgas Limited - proposed acquisition of Wesfarmers Kleenheat Gas Pty Ltd’s 
east coast LPG assets 
 
Page 13 of 22 
Australia and Tasmania, the largest distributor would continue to be 
Origin. 
79. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition would lessen competition 
for the distribution of non-automotive LPG in bulk and in cylinders by removing 
the competitive constraint between the merger parties. In a range of regional 
markets, the proposed acquisition would create a very large market leader with a 
degree of market power that is unlikely to be sufficiently constrained by its 
smaller existing competitors. Indeed, there are regions in which Elgas and 
Kleenheat are the only two distributors. 
80. 
In regional markets where the proposed acquisition would reduce the number of 
competitors from three to two, there may also be an increased risk of 
co-ordinated conduct. 
81. 
Map 2 below illustrates that Elgas and Kleenheat have an extensive network of 
depots on the east coast of Australia. Origin’s depot network is also quite 
extensive, but it has a lesser presence in some parts of New South Wales and 
Victoria (as illustrated in Map 3 below). Supagas and Renegade, who have the 
highest market shares amongst the smaller LPG distributors, have a more 
limited network of depots. 
Map 2: Location of depots owned by the largest five LPG distributors (by volume 
per state) on the east coast 
 


Elgas Limited - proposed acquisition of Wesfarmers Kleenheat Gas Pty Ltd’s 
east coast LPG assets 
 
Page 14 of 22 
Map 3: Location of depots owned by the largest five LPG distributors (by volume 
per state) in New South Wales and Victoria 
 
82. 
As such, the proposed acquisition is likely to combine the two most extensive 
distribution networks on the east coast. It is also likely to reduce the number of 
distributors in at least some regional markets from: 
a. three to two, in regions where there is only Elgas, Kleenheat and Origin 
b. two to one, in regions where there is only Elgas and Kleenheat. 
83. 
Broadly, the ACCC’s market inquiries to date have indicated that the regions of 
most concern are likely to be in the Mallee, south west and north east of Victoria, 
where Elgas and Kleenheat currently compete, and are the only distributors 
present with depots. 
84. 
The ACCC’s market inquiries also indicated that there are some regions of 
concern where Elgas, Kleenheat, and Origin are the only major distributors 
present, and in which the merged entity is likely to be significantly larger than 
Origin post-acquisition. The areas identified by market participants include: 
a. Northern country Victoria (around Bendigo, Shepparton and Echuca) 
b. Australian Capital Territory 


Elgas Limited - proposed acquisition of Wesfarmers Kleenheat Gas Pty Ltd’s 
east coast LPG assets 
 
Page 15 of 22 
c. Illawarra, Central Tablelands, Hunter and Mid North Coast in New 
South Wales. 
Barriers to entry and expansion 
85. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that there are high barriers to entry and 
expansion for the distribution of bulk or cylinder LPG. In particular, a significant 
barrier to a competitor entering a new region is the need to achieve a critical 
mass of customers to be able to compete effectively and profitably with 
incumbents. This barrier is compounded by the presence of a small number of 
customers in areas that are not densely populated. 
86. 
Market participants have identified several barriers to entry and expansion. 
87. 
Entrants require access to a source of LPG at prices that allow the new entrant 
to be competitive with incumbents. This access may be diminished as a result of 
the proposed acquisition by removing an alternative wholesaler for a smaller or 
new entrant LPG distributor (discussed further at [94]). 
88. 
Entrants face high capital, including sunk, costs relative to the potential gains in 
the market. These include capital required to establish a depot and distribution 
network in a new region, including investment in land and buildings, a transport 
fleet (ranging from large tanker trucks to utility vehicles) and a base load of 
cylinders. While some of these capital costs may be able to be mitigated in the 
early stages (e.g. by renting cylinders or contracting out the provision of haulage 
services), market participants report that it typically takes several years of 
operation before a new depot becomes profitable. 
89. 
The economies of scale arising from the high fixed costs in the industry would 
render small scale entry unprofitable. A new entrant would need to be confident 
it could win a significant customer base from the incumbent(s). 
90. 
Entrants also face strategic barriers due to the threat, whether real or perceived, 
that large incumbent distributors may undercut any potential new entrant on 
price in response to new entry. Such strategic barriers could be exacerbated in 
certain regions where the proposed acquisition would result in a significant 
increase in Elgas’ market share.   
91. 
Market participants have raised issues with the difficulty of inducing some 
customers to switch suppliers. This customer ‘stickiness’ exacerbates the 
barriers to entry described above. In particular, the ACCC understands: 
a. A large portion of customers (including dealers and bulk LPG 
customers, especially larger customers) are on long-term contracts. 
Given such contracts are due for renewal at different times they may 
impede a new or expanding distributor seeking to build critical mass. 
b. Some market participants have submitted that, in some rural areas, 
there are only a limited number of businesses which are suitable to act 
as a dealer for a LPG distributor (e.g. a hardware store). 
c. Bulk customers tend to have tanks installed by their distributor, with the 
installation cost recovered over the term of an initial contract. Switching 
distributors requires removing the existing tank and installing a new 
one. While the new distributor often pays for this removal and 


Elgas Limited - proposed acquisition of Wesfarmers Kleenheat Gas Pty Ltd’s 
east coast LPG assets 
 
Page 16 of 22 
installation, it must recover this cost in the price it offers to the 
customer. This may be a barrier to switching, given the incumbent has 
already recovered the cost of its own tank. 
d. In addition, the ACCC understands that the ownership of cylinders often 
remains with the distributor. Dealers (and some other customers) 
wishing to switch distributors may be required to return these (some of 
which may be held by third parties) before switching. 
92. 
While there is evidence of recent entry and expansion in the form of Supagas 
and Renegade, the ACCC notes that it has taken these distributors a long time 
to expand into new areas (e.g. Renegade has taken from 1997 to 2014 to 
expand from Sydney into the regions shown on Map 2). The ACCC’s preliminary 
view is that new entry or expansion would not be sufficiently timely to defeat an 
exercise of market power by Elgas in one or more regional markets following the 
proposed acquisition. 
Countervailing power of customers 
93. 
The ACCC’s market inquiries also indicate that customers of non-automotive 
LPG (either end users or dealers) do not generally have countervailing power. In 
particular: 
a. Customers generally lack the scale to bypass the major distributors by 
sourcing directly from a production or an importation facility. Such 
facilities generally require an offtake arrangement at volumes far larger 
than most dealers or end users need. 
b. The very largest industrial customers might theoretically be able to 
sponsor entry of an alternative distributor into their region, but it is 
unclear whether this could be feasible in the absence of a very large 
price increase by the incumbent(s). 
Vertical effects 
94. 
As discussed above, Elgas, Kleenheat and Origin are the only vertically 
integrated participants in the non-automotive LPG industry in Australia (in that 
they have wholesale facilities and also operate as distributors). While Kleenheat 
engages in some wholesale supply on the east coast (as suggested by some 
market participants, discussed below at [113-114]), the extent of Kleenheat’s 
wholesale activity on the east coast is unclear. 
95. 
However, some market participants are concerned that the proposed acquisition 
would further strengthen Elgas’ vertical integration on the east coast by virtue of 
its increase in downstream market share. In particular, market participants have 
raised concerns about the ability and incentive of Elgas, given its strong position 
in the wholesale market in New South Wales to foreclose rivals in downstream 
markets or raise wholesale prices to them. If so, this may limit those rivals’ ability 
to compete in downstream LPG markets (i.e. the distribution of non-automotive 
LPG in bulk and/or cylinder in regional markets). The ACCC notes that the larger 
the market share of Elgas in downstream markets, then potentially the stronger 
is its incentive to foreclose rivals, as it will receive a higher proportion of the 
foreclosed player’s customers. As discussed above, the proposed acquisition 
would give Elgas a considerable increase in market share. 


Elgas Limited - proposed acquisition of Wesfarmers Kleenheat Gas Pty Ltd’s 
east coast LPG assets 
 
Page 17 of 22 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the likely competition effects 
of the proposed transaction in relation to the distribution of non-automotive LPG (bulk 
and cylinder) in regional markets. 
In particular market participants may wish to comment on the following: 
6) 
Are there other distributors which distribute, or could distribute, non-automotive 
LPG in the regions referred to by the ACCC as those in which competition 
concerns are most likely to arise as a result of the proposed acquisition? If so, 
who are these distributors and where do they operate? 
 
7) 
How difficult would it be for existing smaller distributors (e.g. Supagas, 
Renegade, United Gas, Air Liquide and Direct Gas) to expand their operations to 
distribute non-automotive LPG to the regional markets referred to by the ACCC 
as areas in which competition concerns are most likely to arise as a result of the 
proposed acquisition? How much would the price have to increase for such 
smaller distributors to enter these regional markets? 
 
8) 
What are the steps in setting up a depot to distribute non-automotive LPG 
(cylinder and/or bulk)? What are the set up costs, and the fixed and variable 
ongoing costs? How much of these costs could be recovered upon exit? 
 
9) 
Are there any licensing and/or approval requirements for setting up a new 
depot? If so, please describe the process and how difficult it is to obtain a 
licence/approval. 
 
10) 
How much volume of non-automotive LPG would a new depot have to sell for it 
to be profitable? 
 
11) 
Please give any examples of unsuccessful and successful attempts at new entry 
and/or expansion by an existing distributor. Why was the attempt unsuccessful 
(e.g. not enough customers, price response by incumbents) or successful (e.g. 
won enough customers, successfully competed on price and/or service)? 
 
12) 
To what extent can customers bypass the merged entity? Could customers (e.g. 
very large industrial customers) source non-automotive LPG directly from an 
existing wholesale supply point, or sponsor downstream entry/expansion by 
another wholesaler? 
 
13) 
Please comment on Elgas’ ability and incentive to foreclose its competitors in the 
downstream markets, before and after the proposed acquisition. What other 
wholesale supply options would be available to downstream distributors? Would 
these options be sufficient to constrain Elgas? 
 
14) 
Have any distributors experienced difficulties in obtaining wholesale supply from 
the Elgas Cavern? What were the reasons for these difficulties? 
Competition for the distribution of non-automotive LPG to national 
customers  
96. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is likely to result in 
a substantial lessening of competition for the distribution of non-automotive LPG 
to large national customers in Australia. 


Elgas Limited - proposed acquisition of Wesfarmers Kleenheat Gas Pty Ltd’s 
east coast LPG assets 
 
Page 18 of 22 
97. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition would reduce the level of 
competition for the distribution of non-automotive LPG to national customers by 
merging the only two competitors that can serve this market. 
98. 
Some market participants have submitted that to be able to compete for large 
national contracts, a distributor requires facilities to be located close to the 
footprint of the customers’ sites. Elgas and Kleenheat are said to be the only 
distributors that meet these criteria (and possibly Origin, but to a much lesser 
extent, as discussed below at [101]). 
99. 
For example, market participants have submitted that only distributors with 
sufficient national coverage in their distribution networks have succeeded in 
winning contracts to distribute LPG leisure cylinders to major national outlets 
such as Bunnings, Masters, Caltex and 7-Eleven. The ACCC understands that 
approximately 80% of all leisure LPG cylinders are retailed from an outlet of a 
major national hardware or petrol service station chain. 
Market concentration 
100. The ACCC’s market inquiries indicate that, at the national level, the merger 
parties may be the only distributors, or two of the only three distributors (if Origin 
is considered a competitor in this market), of non-automotive LPG to large 
national customers. 
101. The ACCC notes that while Origin operates on a national basis, some market 
participants do not consider it to be an effective competitor in this market. In 
particular, Origin is said to lack presence in certain areas. For example, Origin 
generally has a lesser presence in Western Australia (as a whole) and in some 
rural areas on the east coast. 
102. The majority of market participants do not consider that smaller distributors (such 
as Supagas, Renegade, United Gas and Direct Gas) have the capability to 
compete for these contracts due to their lack of national reach in their distribution 
networks. 
Barriers to entry and expansion 
103. The ACCC is investigating whether the potential for new entry (or expansion by 
Origin) is likely to be sufficient to prevent a substantial lessening of competition 
arising in this market from the proposed acquisitions. 
104. The ACCC’s market inquiries suggest the following factors make new entry or 
expansion by existing distributors unlikely: 
a. The significant capital requirements to establish a large footprint of 
depots capable of servicing all areas of a large customer’s national 
operations. The capital requirements for establishing a single depot are 
discussed above at [88]. Elgas and Kleenheat have the most 
comprehensive national networks of depots. Competitors seeking to 
match these networks would need to establish depots across Australia, 
which would be likely to take several years. Such competitors would 
also need to access a competitive source of LPG for each location. 
b. In addition, in order to service leisure customers with national outlets, 
some market participants suggest it is necessary to establish large 
scale automated or semi-automated filling plants to be competitive on 
cost. High volume contracts may require specially configured trucks and 


Elgas Limited - proposed acquisition of Wesfarmers Kleenheat Gas Pty Ltd’s 
east coast LPG assets 
 
Page 19 of 22 
loading/unloading facilities, which would require further investment to 
establish. A distributor would need to have sufficient volume to justify 
the investment in these facilities. 
c. The ACCC notes that Kleenheat distributes to national customers that 
are also owned by Wesfarmers (such as Bunnings and Coles Express). 
Other potential entrants would not have the benefit of corporate 
relationships with key customers. 
Countervailing power of customers 
105. The ACCC’s market inquiries suggest that, while large national customers may 
have a higher degree of countervailing power than other types of customers, 
there are some factors which tend to limit the countervailing power of large 
national customers of non-automotive LPG. 
106. Large national customers may be able to sponsor entry of an alternative large 
distributor (such as Origin) for their non-automotive LPG requirements. For 
example, a large national retailer of leisure cylinders could sponsor new entry by 
committing to a contract with a potential or existing distributor with a national 
distribution network. Such a contract could give the potential new entrant (or 
expanded competitor) the incentive to make the necessary investments in semi-
automated or automated filling systems for leisure cylinders. 
107. However, distributors in this market would also need an extensive national 
network of depots with sufficient throughput to be viable. As discussed above, 
such a network would be costly and time-consuming to create. The ACCC’s 
preliminary view is that large national customers would be unlikely to assist 
potential distributors to make such large investments, for the purpose of 
obtaining a lower price for leisure cylinders. 
108. Market inquiries to date suggest it is unlikely that a national customer would be 
willing to unbundle its national contracts to bypass the merged entity, unless the 
merged entity attempted a very significant exercise of market power (such as a 
large and sustained increase in prices or equivalent degradation of supply 
terms). 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the likely competition effects 
of the proposed transaction in relation to the distribution of non-automotive LPG to 
large national customers in Australia. 
In particular, market participants may wish to comment on the following: 
15) 
Other than the merger parties, are there any other distributors who could 
successfully bid for a contract to distribute non-automotive LPG to a customer 
with nation-wide LPG needs? If so, please given any examples of a national 
contract they have won or have bid for in the past. 
 
16) 
How important is it to have automated or semi-automated cylinder filling 
equipment to service a large national customer? 
 
17) 
Could a large national customer bypass the merged entity for the distribution of 
non-automotive LPG by sponsoring new entry or expansion by an existing 
distributor? 
 


Elgas Limited - proposed acquisition of Wesfarmers Kleenheat Gas Pty Ltd’s 
east coast LPG assets 
 
Page 20 of 22 
18) 
Could a large national customer, such as a hardware or petrol retailing chain, 
contract with a range of different distributors across Australia to fulfil its needs 
(instead of a single nation-wide provider) if the price offered by the nation-wide 
providers were to increase? 
 
Issues that may raise concerns 
Competition in state-based markets for the wholesale supply of LPG  
109. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition has the potential to 
result in harm to competition for the wholesale supply of LPG in state-based 
markets. 
110. The ACCC is particularly focusing on New South Wales, given the extent of 
concerns raised by market participants in relation to the competition effects of 
the proposed acquisition in that state. Some market participants have raised 
concern that the proposed acquisition may lessen the ability of distributors to 
access wholesale LPG on competitive terms. 
111. Access to a competitive supply of wholesale LPG is critical for non-integrated 
distributors to be able to compete effectively. These distributors do not have their 
own production or importation facilities, nor do they have the necessary scale to 
invest in such facilities (which would require very large capital investment). As a 
consequence, they are reliant on the major wholesalers. 
112. As discussed above (under ‘industry background’ at [23-40]), wholesale supply 
on the east coast is available from: 
a. Origin’s import terminals and the BP refinery in Queensland 
b. Elgas and Origin’s import terminals in Sydney (including the large Elgas 
Cavern) 
c. Victorian oil refineries and various supply points linked to Bass Strait 
sources 
d. Santos in South Australia. 
113. Although Kleenheat does not itself produce LPG or operate import facilities on 
the east coast,1 market participants have indicated that Kleenheat has at times 
provided wholesale supply of LPG to smaller downstream distributors. Some 
smaller distributors have indicated to the ACCC that when they have been 
unable to source LPG directly from production or import facilities due to lack of 
scale, Kleenheat had been willing to resell LPG it had obtained in the wholesale 
market. Kleenheat is therefore viewed as a possible alternative wholesale 
supplier. To the extent Kleenheat is an alternative wholesale supplier, the 
proposed acquisition would remove it from the market. 
114. These concerns are particularly evident in New South Wales where there are 
relatively few wholesale supply sources and Elgas has a significant market 
position due to the size of the Cavern. Given the high cost of transporting LPG 
interstate by road, the ACCC’s market inquiries suggest that any further 
aggregation of Elgas’ market position in New South Wales may leave customers 
of wholesale LPG vulnerable to price increases in that state. The ACCC’s market 
                                                 
 
1 Kleenheat owns and operates an LPG extraction plant in Perth (the Kwinana plant). 


Elgas Limited - proposed acquisition of Wesfarmers Kleenheat Gas Pty Ltd’s 
east coast LPG assets 
 
Page 21 of 22 
inquiries indicate that distributors value the ability to choose between wholesale 
supply options for security of supply, and are therefore concerned that the 
proposed acquisition may remove a potential wholesale supply option. However, 
the ACCC is unclear on the extent that Kleenheat is a current and potential 
future wholesale supplier in New South Wales. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the likely competition effects 
of the proposed transaction in relation to the wholesale supply LPG in state-wide 
markets, particularly in New South Wales. 
In particular market participants may wish to comment on the following: 
19) 
How would the removal of Kleenheat affect other distributors’ ability to access 
wholesale LPG, particularly in New South Wales? Please give examples of any 
distributors who currently purchase wholesale LPG from Kleenheat on the east 
coast, or have done so in the past. 
 
20) 
If the proposed acquisition would remove a wholesale supply option for 
downstream distributors, to what extent could other remaining wholesale supply 
options meet their supply needs? Please comment on Origin’s Port Botany 
facility and the feasibility of transporting LPG by road from interstate. 
Issues unlikely to pose concerns 
Supply of automotive LPG 
115. The ACCC’s market inquiries to date have raised very few competition concerns 
which specifically affect the supply of automotive LPG. In downstream markets, 
Kleenheat has only a very small share of the supply of automotive LPG on the 
east coast of Australia, estimated at less than 3 per cent. Kleenheat also does 
not have any significant concentration of shares in any states or territories. 
116. The ACCC’s preliminary view is, therefore, that the proposed acquisition would 
be unlikely to substantially lessen competition in any relevant automotive LPG 
market. 
117. The ACCC welcomes any comments regarding its preliminary findings in relation 
to the supply of automotive LPG. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the likely competition effects 
of the proposed transaction in relation to automotive LPG-related markets. 
In particular, market participants may wish to comment on the following: 
21) 
Do you consider Kleenheat to be a significant supplier of automotive LPG on the 
east coast, either at the wholesale or downstream levels? 
22) 
Will the proposed acquisition result in any substantial lessening of competition in 
the supply of automotive LPG? 
ACCC's future steps 
118. The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers market responses 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 


Elgas Limited - proposed acquisition of Wesfarmers Kleenheat Gas Pty Ltd’s 
east coast LPG assets 
 
Page 22 of 22 
119. The ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on each of the 
issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that may be 
relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. 
120. Submissions are to be received by the ACCC no later than 26 June 2014. The 
ACCC will consider the submissions received from the market and the merger 
parties in light of the issues identified above and will, in conjunction with 
information and submissions already provided by the parties, come to a final 
view in light of the issues raised above. 
121. The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 24 July 2014. However 
the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Merger Review Process 
Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose of explaining the 
ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's public announcement. 
