 
Page 1 of 17 
 
Public Competition Assessment 
22 December 2015 
Elgas Limited – proposed acquisition of Wesfarmers 
Kleenheat Gas Pty Ltd's east coast LPG assets 
Purpose 
1. 
This public competition assessment outlines reasons for the Australian 
Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) decision to not oppose the 
proposed acquisition of Wesfarmers Kleenheat Gas Pty Ltd's east coast liquefied 
petroleum gas assets (Kleenheat) by Elgas Limited (Elgas) (the proposed 
acquisition), subject to enforceable undertakings. 
2. 
ACCC public competition assessments aim to improve transparency and ensure 
procedural fairness. We aim to provide the public with a better understanding of 
our analysis of various markets and competition issues. We generally issue a 
public competition assessment for transactions when: 
 
an acquisition is opposed 
 
an acquisition is subject to enforceable undertakings 
 
the parties to the acquisition seek such disclosure, or 
 
an acquisition is not opposed but raises important issues that the ACCC 
considers should be made public. 
3. 
The ACCC considers each matter on a case-by-case basis. While some 
transactions may involve the same or related markets, the analysis and decision 
outlined in one assessment will not necessarily reflect the ACCC’s view about 
other transactions. 
4. 
The ACCC considers confidential information from parties and market 
participants when making a decision. Our public assessments may not identify 
and explain all issues that we considered because we must maintain 
confidentiality about certain information and sources. 
The ACCC’s decision 
5. 
Section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the Act) is the relevant 
provision for the ACCC’s assessment. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that 
would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of substantially lessening 
competition in any market. 


 
Page 2 of 17 
6. 
On 18 December 2014, the ACCC announced its decision not to oppose the 
proposed acquisition, after accepting section 87B undertakings from Elgas and 
Kleenheat (together, the undertakings). 
7. 
On 29 August 2014, the ACCC suspended the timeline for its review in 
anticipation of receiving an undertaking from Elgas. Subsequent negotiations 
resulted in Elgas offering an undertaking to the ACCC on 5 December 2014. 
8. 
On 10 April 2014, Elgas announced its proposal to acquire the east coast 
liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) assets of Kleenheat. The assets included 
Kleenheat’s depots, trucks, storage tanks and cylinders. For the purposes of the 
proposed acquisition and this public competition assessment, ‘east coast’ refers 
to Queensland, New South Wales, the Australian Capital Territory, Victoria, 
Tasmania and South Australia. Kleenheat’s LPG assets in Western Australia and 
the Northern Territory were not part of the proposed acquisition. 
9. 
The ACCC decided that the proposed acquisition, after taking into account the 
undertakings given by the merger parties, would not be likely to have the effect 
of substantially lessening competition in contravention of section 50 of the Act. 
The ACCC considered the competitive effects of the proposed acquisition in the 
following markets: 
 
state and regional markets for the distribution of non-automotive LPG in 
bulk and in cylinders 
 
state-wide markets for the wholesale supply of LPG, and 
 
markets for the supply of automotive LPG. 
10. Further details regarding the ACCC’s reasoning are provided below. 
The parties 
The acquirer: Elgas Limited 
11. Elgas is a major wholesaler and distributor of automotive and non-automotive 
LPG in Australia. It uses a range of transport options and storage facilities to 
distribute LPG in both cylinders and bulk to a variety of customer segments. 
12. Elgas owns and operates the ‘Cavern’, which is a major LPG import and storage 
facility in Port Botany, New South Wales. Elgas also owns and operates an 
extensive network of LPG depots throughout Australia. 
13. Elgas is a member of the BOC Group of companies, which is owned by the 
Linde Group, an international gas and engineering company. 
The target: Wesfarmers Kleenheat Gas Pty Ltd's east coast LPG assets 
14. Kleenheat is a major wholesaler and distributor of automotive and non-
automotive LPG in Australia, supplying LPG in cylinders and in bulk to serve the 
needs of different customers. 
15. Kleenheat owns an LPG extraction plant in Kwinana, Western Australia, and 
operates a large network of depots throughout Australia. It is a wholly-owned 


 
Page 3 of 17 
subsidiary of Wesfarmers Limited, a public company listed on the Australian 
Securities Exchange. 
Other industry participants 
Origin 
16. Origin Energy Limited (Origin) is a national energy retailer which wholesales and 
distributes automotive and non-automotive LPG (bulk and cylinder) to a variety 
of customer segments. Origin has LPG operations in all Australian states and 
territories. It owns and operates seven seaboard terminals on the east coast of 
Australia, and a network of depots throughout Australia. Origin operates its LPG 
businesses under four brands: Origin LPG, Speed-e-gas, Powergas and 
Quickswap. Origin is listed on the Australian Securities Exchange. 
Supagas 
17. Supagas Pty Ltd (Supagas) is a non-automotive LPG distributor (bulk and 
cylinder) operating in Victoria, South Australia, Tasmania, the Northern Territory, 
and Western Australia. It operates a number of depot facilities within these 
states and territories. Supagas is a private company which began in Melbourne 
in 1968 under the name of Australian Forklifts. 
Renegade 
18. Renegade Gas Pty Ltd (Renegade) is a non-automotive LPG distributor (bulk 
and cylinder) operating in New South Wales, Queensland, and the Australian 
Capital Territory. It operates a number of depot facilities within these states and 
territories. Renegade is a private company which was established in 1997. 
Renegade trades under the name “Supagas”, but is a separate entity and 
business from Supagas Pty Ltd. 
United Gas 
19. United Gas is a non-automotive LPG distributor (bulk and cylinder) operating in 
South Australia and Victoria. United Gas is owned by Arcadia Energy Trading 
Limited (Arcadia), which acquired the United Gas business from United 
Petroleum in 2013. Arcadia is a wholesale commodity trader specialising in the 
energy sector. It is part of the global Farahead Group of companies which owns 
major oil shipping and physical oil trading companies worldwide. 
Direct Gas 
20. Direct Gas is a non-automotive LPG distributor (bulk and cylinder) operating out 
of Dandenong, Victoria. Direct Gas began supplying non-automotive LPG in 
2012. Direct Gas also operates the United Gas business (as contractors) for 
Arcadia. 
Air Liquide Australia 
21. Air Liquide Australia is a member of the Air Liquide Group, an international 
industrial gas company. In Australia, Air Liquide Australia’s business is 
predominantly in industrial gases, with limited distribution of non-automotive LPG 
(in cylinders only). 


 
Page 4 of 17 
Review timeline 
22. The following table outlines the timeline of key events in this matter. 
Date 
Event 
10 April 2014 
ACCC commenced review under the Merger Process 
Guidelines. 
17 April 2014 
ACCC requested further information from the merger parties. 
9 May 2014 
ACCC received information from the merger parties. 
5 June 2014 
ACCC published a Statement of Issues outlining preliminary 
competition concerns. 
27 June 2014 
ACCC requested further information from the merger parties.  
18 July 2014 
ACCC received information from the merger parties. 
14 August 2014 
 
ACCC requested further information from the merger parties. 
Former proposed date for announcement of ACCC's final 
decision (28 August) delayed to allow the merger parties time to 
provide additional information. 
19 August 2014 
ACCC received further information from the merger parties. 
26 August 2014 
Former proposed decision date of 4 September delayed to allow 
the vendor to provide more information in response to issues 
raised by the ACCC. 
29 August 2014 
ACCC received further information from the vendor. Former 
proposed decision date of 11 September delayed to allow more 
time for the acquirer to provide additional information.  
5 December 2014 
Elgas offered a section 87B undertaking to the ACCC. 
8 December 2014 
ACCC commenced market inquiries in relation to proposed 
section 87B undertaking offered by Elgas.  
18 December 2014 ACCC announced it would not oppose the proposed acquisition, 
subject to section 87B undertakings accepted by ACCC. 
Market inquiries 
23. The ACCC conducted market inquiries with a range of industry participants, 
including LPG wholesalers, retailers, distributors, dealers, agents and customers 
(residential, commercial and industrial). Submissions were sought in relation to 
the substantive competition issues and the proposed undertakings. 
Statement of Issues 
24. The ACCC published a Statement of Issues on 5 June 2014. In the Statement of 
Issues the ACCC expressed the preliminary view that the proposed acquisition 


 
Page 5 of 17 
would be likely to result in a substantial lessening of competition in the 
distribution of bulk and cylinder non-automotive LPG in regional markets and to 
national customers in Australia.  
25. The ACCC was particularly concerned that the proposed acquisition would be 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition by aggregating two 
of the three largest distributors of non-automotive cylinder and bulk LPG. 
26. The ACCC also expressed the preliminary view that: 
 
the proposed acquisition had the potential to harm competition for the 
wholesale supply of LPG in state-based markets, especially in New 
South Wales 
 
the proposed acquisition would be unlikely to substantially lessen 
competition in any relevant automotive LPG market. 
Future with and without the proposed acquisition 
27. Section 50 of the Act prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect or be likely 
to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. In assessing 
a proposed acquisition pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC considers 
the likely effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future competitive 
environment if the acquisition proceeds (the “with” position) to the likely future 
competitive environment if the acquisition does not proceed (the “without” 
position) to determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to have the 
effect of substantially lessening competition in any relevant market. 
Preliminary view in the Statement of Issues 
28. In the Statement of Issues the ACCC expressed the preliminary view that, 
without the proposed acquisition, Kleenheat would continue to operate its LPG 
assets on the east coast independently of Elgas. Therefore, in the Statement of 
Issues the ACCC assessed the competitive effects of the proposed acquisition 
against a future in which competition remained broadly as it stood before the 
proposed acquisition. 
ACCC consideration since the Statement of Issues 
29. After the release of the Statement of Issues, Kleenheat submitted to the ACCC 
that, in the absence of the proposed acquisition, Kleenheat would cease to 
operate its LPG business on the east coast of Australia. 
30. The ACCC conducted market inquiries and carefully considered information 
provided by interested parties on this issue. The ACCC also examined in detail 
extensive confidential information provided by the merger parties, including 
financial information and internal company documents that preceded 
contemplation of the proposed acquisition. 
31. Taking account of this information and other materials before it, the ACCC 
formed the view that Kleenheat’s LPG business on the east coast would be likely 
to cease trading if the proposed acquisition did not proceed. 


 
Page 6 of 17 
32. However, even if a business ceases trading it does not necessarily follow that its 
assets would also exit the relevant markets. In this case, the ACCC considered 
what would happen to the assets of Kleenheat in the absence of the acquisition. 
The ACCC concluded that, absent the proposed acquisition, most of Kleenheat’s 
east coast LPG assets (such as depots, trucks, storage tanks and cylinders) 
would be likely to become available for alternative distributors to purchase and 
use these assets to compete in the relevant markets and would not exit the 
industry. 
33. The ACCC also concluded that in the likely future without the proposed 
acquisition, Kleenheat’s customers would become contestable, thereby providing 
opportunities for alternative distributors to acquire new customers and 
strengthen their competitive position. 
Industry background 
LPG overview 
34. LPG is the generic name for mixtures of light hydrocarbon gas, consisting mainly 
of propane and butane, or propane only. Broadly, the multiple uses of LPG may 
be characterised into two main streams: 
 
automotive, often referred to in the industry as ‘autogas’ 
 
non-automotive, often referred to in the industry as ‘traditional’ LPG. 
35. LPG has a variety of different end uses, including automotive (e.g. motor 
vehicles), domestic (e.g. heating), leisure (e.g. barbeques), commercial (e.g. 
cooking) and industrial. 
36. LPG businesses differ in how they organise their supply chains and the 
terminology they use. There are many different levels in the supply chains of 
LPG, and the business models vary in the way that customers are serviced. 
Although the definitions are not always precise, for the purposes of the ACCC’s 
competition assessment: 
 
Wholesale is the supply of LPG from a production or import facility. This 
may include LPG from oil refineries or gas production facilities where 
LPG is produced as a by-product. 
 
Distributors of LPG purchase LPG from wholesalers or resellers and 
transport the product to a depot where it is:  
o stored and decanted to fill LPG cylinders and then supplied to 
customers in pre-filled cylinders 
o stored and supplied to customers in bulk. 
Distributors may also supply customers directly from a wholesale supply 
point rather than via an LPG depot, dealer or agent, especially large bulk 
customers.  
 
Dealers (e.g. hardware stores, rural retail outlets) and agents act as 
intermediaries between distributors and end customers. Distributors such 
as Elgas, Kleenheat and Origin often engage dealers or agents to reach 
end customers in outer regional areas, located at a distance from the 
distributor’s depot or supply point. 


 
Page 7 of 17 
 
Leisure cylinder retailers supply leisure cylinders to end customers. 
These cylinders are swap cylinders such as those used for barbeques. 
Examples of leisure retailers are Bunnings, Masters Home Improvement, 
Woolworths Petrol, Coles Express, BP and Caltex. 
37. Figure 1 below illustrates a typical LPG supply chain for non-automotive LPG. 
There may be variations depending on factors such as a customer’s proximity to 
a depot. 
Figure 1: Typical supply chain for non-automotive LPG 
 
Production and importation of LPG 
Production 
38. LPG is produced: 
 
directly by refining crude oil and natural gas during processing 
 
as a by-product of refining crude oil. 
39. Natural gas processing plants and crude oil refineries supply LPG on a 
wholesale basis to large customers such as Origin, Elgas and Kleenheat. 
40. Crude oil refineries that produce LPG on the east coast as a by-product of their 
main activity include: 
 
BP at its refinery on Bulwer Island in Brisbane, Queensland (BP closed 
this refinery in 2015) 
 
Vitol at its refinery in Geelong, Victoria 
 
Mobil at its refinery in Altona, Victoria 
 
Caltex at its refinery in Lytton, Queensland. 


 
Page 8 of 17 
41. Producers of LPG as a by-product typically favour contracts with large 
downstream LPG distributors which are able to commit to regular offtake. This is 
to reduce the risk of interrupting their main activity due to LPG overflow. 
42. There are also major companies involved in extracting LPG from gas fields on 
the east coast of Australia such as the Otway Gas Project – a joint venture 
between Origin, Benaris and CalEnergy. This gas processing plant is located in 
Port Campbell, Victoria. 
43. Some LPG producers are vertically integrated: they use LPG in their own 
operations, and also sell it to their competitors in downstream markets. For 
instance, Kleenheat owns an LPG extraction plant in Kwinana, Western 
Australia. It uses the LPG in its downstream distribution business, but also sells 
wholesale LPG from the Kwinana plant to other distributors. 
Imports 
44. LPG is also imported (mostly from the Middle East) in shipments and stored at 
an import terminal. Elgas owns and operates the ‘Cavern’, located at Port Botany 
in New South Wales. The Cavern is the largest LPG import storage terminal on 
the east coast and is capable of receiving large volumes of LPG from large gas 
ships. 
45. Origin also operates a smaller import storage facility at Port Botany, and ships 
LPG from various sources to smaller seaboard terminals along the Queensland 
coast, the Northern Territory and Tasmania. 
Distribution of LPG 
46. The three largest distributors of LPG on the east coast are Elgas, Kleenheat and 
Origin. Elgas and Origin are the only vertically integrated non-automotive LPG 
distributors on the east coast. They both have LPG import terminals and 
extensive downstream LPG distribution networks. Elgas and Origin act as 
wholesalers to other distributors and each other. Kleenheat itself does not have 
any import terminals or production facilities on the east coast. 
Bulk and cylinder distribution 
47. Within non-automotive LPG, the two main methods of distribution are: 
 
bulk supply – LPG supply via trucks which refill tanks installed 
permanently at the customer’s premises 
 
cylinder supply – LPG supply to customers in pre-filled cylinders. 
48. Bulk LPG is distributed to small, medium and large commercial and industrial 
customers. Residential customers may also receive LPG in bulk form. 
Customers use a variety of bulk tank sizes to store LPG. Depending on the 
customer, bulk tanks vary in size, from 210 kg up to 100 tonnes. 
49. Bulk LPG may be delivered directly from a wholesale supply source to end 
customers, without passing through depots, dealers or agents. This is especially 
the case for large bulk customers and some other customers located en route to 
a depot (or other delivery point) being supplied by truck from a wholesale source. 


 
Page 9 of 17 
Bulk customers requiring smaller quantities are often served via depots, dealers 
or agents. 
50. Cylinder LPG is typically supplied in pre-filled cylinders on an exchange basis. 
Cylinders are supplied in different sizes, including (approximate): 
 
9 kg cylinders (e.g. for residential customers and leisure retailers) 
 
15 kg cylinders (e.g. for forklift cylinder customers) 
 
45 kg cylinders (e.g for residential customers and commercial/industrial 
customers). 
51. LPG cylinders are re-filled at depots and then transported by flatbed truck or 
utility vehicle from a depot (or other distribution point such as a staging yard) to 
end customers, dealers or agents.  
Depots 
52. LPG is transported within Australia by road and supported by a network of depot 
and distribution infrastructure. Depots often comprise LPG bulk storage tanks, 
LPG cylinder filling, testing and refurbishing equipment, delivery trucks and an 
office (sometimes with a retail presence). 
53. Depots are generally located in industrial areas and are equipped to provide both 
bulk and cylinder services (although some smaller distributors only supply 
cylinder services). 
Dealers and agents 
54. Dealers (e.g. hardware stores and rural retail outlets) and agents act as 
intermediaries between distributors and end customers. Distributors such as 
Kleenheat and Elgas typically engage dealers or agents to reach end customers 
in outer regional areas located a large distance from the distributor’s depot. End 
customers in outer regional areas are therefore often served by a dealer (e.g. 
their local hardware store), rather than direct by a distributor. 
55. The business models for dealers and agents are generally different: 
 
Under an agent model, the distributor sets the retail price of LPG, and the 
agent receives a commission for their delivery and other services. 
 
Under a dealer model, the distributor sells the dealer a quantity of LPG, 
and the dealer sets its own retail price for customers (the dealer is a 
customer of the distributor). 
Customers 
56. The LPG network described above is developed around the multiple uses of 
LPG and to meet the needs of different customers. These customers include: 
 
large bulk customers (e.g. industrial) 
 
medium bulk customers (e.g. commercial) 
 
small bulk customers (e.g. restaurants and some residential) 
 
leisure retailers (e.g. retailers that sell pre-filled barbeque cylinders) 


 
Page 10 of 17 
 
national customers (e.g. customers such as leisure retailers that have a 
presence in more than one state and are served by a single LPG 
distributor) 
 
residential (e.g. residential customers that use LPG for heating). 
Market definition 
57. The ACCC assessed the competitive effects of the proposed acquisition in the 
context of the following markets: 
 
State and regional markets for the distribution of non-automotive LPG in 
bulk. 
 
State and regional markets for the distribution of non-automotive LPG in 
cylinders. 
 
State markets for the wholesale supply of LPG. 
 
Markets for the supply of automotive LPG. 
Markets for the distribution of non-automotive LPG 
58. As noted earlier, the merger parties primarily overlap in the distribution of bulk 
and cylinder non-automotive LPG. 
Product dimension 
59. The ACCC considered whether the distribution of bulk and cylinder non-
automotive LPG formed a single or two separate markets, but as this issue was 
not determinative in this review, the ACCC did not form a concluded view and 
therefore assessed the proposed acquisition based on separate markets. The 
ACCC considered there were many overlapping competition issues between the 
two forms of distribution. 
60. In the Statement of Issues the ACCC expressed the preliminary view that there 
was likely to be a separate market for the distribution of non-automotive LPG to 
large national customers. However, market inquiries since the Statement of 
Issues indicated that defining a separate market may not be appropriate. Some 
national customers expressed a view that they could disaggregate their contract 
into separate components for each state if faced with a price rise for national 
services. For the purposes of the competition assessment, the ACCC did not 
consider it critical to form a concluded view on whether a separate national 
market existed. The competition analysis below considers the effects of the 
proposed acquisition on national customers as part of the analysis of state and 
regional distribution markets. 
Geographic dimension 
61. The ACCC assessed the effects of the proposed acquisition in, broadly, state-
wide and regional markets. Some distributors organise their operations on a 
state-wide basis. However, the boundaries of state-wide markets do not 
necessarily coincide with official state borders (given the boundaries of 
competition are not determined by such borders). 


 
Page 11 of 17 
62. The ACCC concluded that competition occurred not just on a state-wide basis, 
but also at a regional level through the presence of local distributors (such as a 
local depot or via a dealer and/or agent). For instance, some distributors operate 
in particular regions without having state-wide coverage. Elgas and Kleenheat 
have state-wide non-automotive LPG distribution in New South Wales and 
Victoria. Therefore, the ACCC found that competition for the distribution of non-
automotive LPG occurred on both a state-wide and narrower regional basis. 
63. The geographic distances over which it is economically viable to deliver non-
automotive LPG differs between distributors due to a range of factors. These 
factors include their respective business model, distance between points in their 
distribution network, transport costs and the volume demand densities of 
different regions. The evidence showed that the majority of cylinder and bulk 
deliveries were made within 100 km of the relevant depot, dealer or agent, but 
there were also variations in distances for the reasons outlined above. 
64. The ACCC concluded that competitive harm resulting from the proposed 
acquisition would likely manifest in some particular regions more strongly than in 
other regions within the same market. These particular regions are discussed 
further below in the context of the undertakings given by the merger parties. 
Other markets 
State markets for the wholesale supply of LPG 
65. Consistent with its preliminary view in the Statement of Issues, the ACCC 
considered that there are markets for the wholesale supply of LPG, either state-
wide or broader geographic markets. For the purposes of the ACCC’s review, we 
did not consider it necessary to precisely define these markets. 
Automotive LPG markets 
66. The ACCC formed the view that the supply of automotive LPG was likely to be a 
separate product market to non-automotive LPG, given the different distribution 
models. In addition, depending on the intended customer use, one type of LPG 
may not necessarily be used in place of the other. The ACCC did not consider it 
necessary to define the geographic scope of the market for the supply of 
automotive LPG as we ultimately found that the proposed acquisition was 
unlikely to raise significant competition concerns in any automotive LPG market. 
Conclusion on market definition 
67. The defined markets are listed at paragraph 57. However, given the overlap 
between the merger parties, the ACCC concluded that the markets of particular 
relevance in assessing the competitive effects of the proposed acquisition were 
state and regional markets for the distribution of non-automotive LPG in bulk and 
cylinders. 
Competition analysis – issues unlikely to substantially 
lessen competition 
68. This section considers issues that the ACCC ultimately concluded were not likely 
to result in a substantial lessening of competition in any relevant market. 


 
Page 12 of 17 
Horizontal aggregation in wholesale markets 
69. In its Statement of Issues, the ACCC expressed the preliminary view that the 
proposed acquisition had the potential to harm competition for wholesale supply 
of LPG. In particular, some market participants were concerned that Kleenheat 
would be removed from the markets as an alternative wholesale supplier. 
70. As noted above (paragraph 46), Kleenheat does not operate wholesale facilities 
(i.e. production or import facilities) on the east coast of Australia. However, 
information available to the ACCC indicated that Kleenheat did at times resell 
LPG to smaller downstream distributors. Kleenheat was therefore viewed by 
some parties as an alternative reseller of LPG. 
71. However, the ACCC’s market inquiries and information obtained from Kleenheat 
indicated that Kleenheat undertakes only limited reselling activity. Therefore the 
ACCC considered that the removal of Kleenheat would not materially alter the 
ability of distributors to access wholesale sources of LPG. 
72. The ACCC acknowledged that Elgas would increase its utilisation of the Cavern 
post-acquisition given the increase in its downstream operations. However, the 
ACCC did not consider this would lead to a significant reduction in competition. 
Vertical foreclosure 
73. In its Statement of Issues, the ACCC reflected the views of some market 
participants that Elgas may have the ability and incentive to foreclose 
downstream rivals’ (i.e. other distributors’) access to wholesale LPG. The 
Statement of Issues indicated that Elgas’ incentive to foreclose may be 
increased post acquisition in line with its downstream market share, because of 
the likelihood that Elgas would capture a higher proportion of customers if it 
foreclosed its downstream rivals. 
74. As noted earlier, Elgas owns and operates the ‘Cavern’ at Port Botany which is a 
wholesale source of imported LPG. Origin also has an import and storage facility 
at Port Botany, and operates a number of other seaboard terminals. Elgas and 
Origin are the only vertically integrated LPG participants with large downstream 
LPG distribution networks on the east coast of Australia. 
75. The ACCC considered that the proposed acquisition would not significantly alter 
Elgas’ ability and incentive to supply LPG to other distributors. The ACCC noted 
that some distributors source and transport LPG by road from alternative 
sources in Victoria and therefore could bypass Elgas if necessary. In addition, at 
the time of the ACCC’s review, Kleenheat did not own or operate any wholesale 
LPG production or import facilities on the east coast. Therefore, no wholesale 
LPG assets would be acquired by Elgas as part of the proposed acquisition.  
76. For these reasons, the ACCC concluded that Elgas’ ability and incentive to 
supply wholesale LPG to downstream rivals would not be materially different 
after the acquisition. 


 
Page 13 of 17 
Automotive LPG 
77. Consistent with the ACCC’s preliminary view in the Statement of Issues, 
concerns were not raised by any interested party about the likely effect of the 
proposed acquisition on competition in any relevant automotive LPG market. 
Competition analysis – issues of concern 
78. This section considers the impact of the proposed acquisition on competition for 
the distribution of non-automotive LPG in state and regional markets. It 
discusses the ACCC’s competition concerns in these markets and the 
section 87B undertakings received from the merger parties. 
Reduction in the number of distributors of non-automotive LPG in state 
and regional markets 
79. The three major distributors of non-automotive LPG in bulk and cylinders on the 
east coast are Kleenheat, Elgas and Origin. These distributors have extensive 
geographic coverage in their networks, including through agent and/or dealer 
networks in metropolitan and regional areas. 
80. The ACCC was particularly concerned that aggregating two of the three largest 
distributors of non-automotive LPG would enhance the ability and incentive of 
the merged entity to raise prices and/or reduce service levels in bulk and cylinder 
markets. 
81. Following the acquisition, markets for the distribution of non-automotive LPG in 
Victoria, New South Wales and the Australian Capital Territory would be highly 
concentrated with the merged entity becoming the largest distributor by a 
significant margin. This is of particular concern as barriers to entry or expansion 
in these markets are considered high (discussed below at paragraphs 89 to 91). 
82. The ACCC noted that non-automotive LPG prices charged to customers varied 
significantly not only between states, but also between regions within states. The 
ACCC’s market inquiries revealed that these price differences were influenced 
by the intensity of competition, which depended on the number and effectiveness 
of competitors present. Therefore, the ACCC considered both state and regional 
aspects of the competitive process. 
83. The ACCC recognised the complexity of distribution networks and the large 
number of variables that determine whether a particular customer could be 
served on competitive terms by an alternative distributor, dealer or agent. For 
instance, the ACCC’s market inquiries since the Statement of Issues highlighted 
that having a locally based LPG depot can provide a competitive advantage for 
an incumbent distributor.  
84. However, it is possible for distributors in some circumstances to compete 
effectively for customers in a town without having a depot in that town or 
surrounding region. In particular, the more extensive a competitor’s network is, 
the better placed it is to compete for and attract new customers. Elgas and 
Kleenheat have extensive distribution networks with the ability to serve different 
customers in both metropolitan and regional areas. 


 
Page 14 of 17 
85. The ACCC considered that the proposed acquisition would not be likely to have 
the effect of substantially lessening competition in the other relevant eastern 
states (Queensland, South Australia and Tasmania). Elgas and Kleenheat have 
a smaller presence in these states, while Origin has a stronger competitive 
presence. There are also a number of smaller distributors. Taken collectively, the 
ACCC found that these competitors would be sufficient to constrain the merged 
entity in the other states. 
Level of constraint provided by other distributors 
86. Smaller distributors such as Supagas and Renegade operate in metropolitan 
areas and major regional hubs. At the time of the ACCC’s review, these 
distributors had limited network coverage in regional or rural areas, especially in 
areas where there is low demand. 
87. Origin is a larger market participant but it has a limited network in some areas, 
especially in parts of regional Victoria. The ACCC was concerned that Origin 
would not constrain Elgas after the acquisition due to gaps in Origin’s network in 
these areas, and the barriers to expanding into new areas (discussed below at 
paragraphs 89 to 91). 
88. Accordingly, absent the undertakings, the ACCC was concerned that Origin and 
smaller distributors would pose a limited constraint on Elgas after the acquisition 
in certain geographic areas (mainly regional) in Victoria, New South Wales and 
the Australian Capital Territory. 
Barriers to entry and expansion 
89. The ACCC considered that there are high barriers to entry and expansion in the 
distribution of non-automotive LPG and there was unlikely to be any significant 
new entry or expansion in the foreseeable future. 
90. Market inquiries identified a number of barriers, including: 
 
high capital costs required to establish a distribution network, including 
sunk costs, relative to the potential returns and long recoupment period 
 
a critical mass of customers required to support investment in a 
distribution network and to achieve economies of scale, which is made 
more difficult in areas where there is low demand 
 
access to a competitive source of wholesale LPG which would allow 
parties to compete effectively with incumbent distributors  
 
strategic barriers, whether real or perceived, such as retaliatory action 
against potential rivals designed to deter them from seeking to compete 
to attract a critical mass of customers. 
91. The ACCC considered that the barriers to entry identified above would deter 
potential new entrants, or existing distributors considering expanding, thus 
limiting the level of constraint on Elgas post-acquisition from existing or new 
rivals. 


 
Page 15 of 17 
Conclusion on competition concerns, absent the section 87B undertakings 
92. In light of the above, the ACCC was concerned that absent the section 87B 
undertakings, the proposed acquisition would be likely to have the effect of 
substantially lessening competition in the distribution of non-automotive LPG in 
state and regional markets. 
Undertakings 
93. On 17 December 2014, the ACCC accepted section 87B undertakings given by 
Kleenheat and Elgas. An undertaking accepted by the ACCC pursuant to section 
87B of the Act is a court-enforceable commitment. The section 87B undertakings 
accepted by the ACCC in this review are available on the ACCC’s mergers 
public register at: 
http://registers.accc.gov.au/content/index.phtml/itemId/1183747/fromItemId/751043. 
94. Elgas gave a section 87B undertaking to the ACCC to address the competition 
issues likely to arise as a result of the proposed acquisition. In particular, the 
Elgas undertaking is intended to preserve competition in areas where Elgas 
would be otherwise likely to face substantially less competition from other non-
automotive LPG distributors post-acquisition in the absence of the undertaking. 
Kleenheat also gave a section 87B undertaking to the ACCC to facilitate 
transitional issues associated with the Elgas undertaking. 
95. The section 87B undertaking given by Elgas focuses on the geographic areas 
(mainly regional) in Victoria, New South Wales and the Australian Capital 
Territory where Elgas and Kleenheat competed before the proposed acquisition, 
but had few other competitors. 
96. These regions were identified on the basis of feedback received by the ACCC 
during market inquiries, and were assessed by the ACCC as being the regions 
where competitive harm was likely. The undertakings address these concerns. 
Importantly, the undertakings strengthen the ability of Renegade and Origin to 
compete and facilitate their expansion into areas where Elgas would have faced 
limited competition absent the undertakings. 
97. The Elgas undertaking requires Elgas to divest Kleenheat’s physical assets 
associated with the distribution of LPG in certain regions, and contracted 
customers in those regions, to Origin and Renegade. 
98. Specifically, Elgas must divest specified assets including freehold property, 
leases, contracts, plant and equipment, cylinders, vehicles and inventory 
associated with the following Kleenheat sites to Renegade in New South Wales 
and the Australian Capital Territory: 
 
Dubbo, NSW 
 
Griffith, NSW 
 
Kempsey, NSW 
 
Moama, NSW 
 
Nowra, NSW 
 
Stroud, NSW 
 
Tamworth, NSW 


 
Page 16 of 17 
 
Mitchell, ACT. 
99. Similarly, Elgas must divest the following Kleenheat sites (and associated 
assets) to Origin in Victoria: 
 
Maryborough 
 
Swan Hill 
 
Warrnambool (only customers and certain assets in this region, there is 
no physical Kleenheat site in Warrnambool). 
100. The objective of the Elgas and Kleenheat undertakings is to address the ACCC’s 
competition concerns (as set out above) raised by the proposed acquisition. In 
particular, as set out in the Elgas undertaking, this objective would be met by: 
 
ensuring that certain Kleenheat LPG distribution assets based in regional 
Victoria are divested to Origin (or to another approved purchaser if the 
divestiture does not occur within a certain period) 
 
ensuring that certain Kleenheat LPG distribution assets based in the 
Australian Capital Territory and regional New South Wales are divested 
to Renegade (or to another approved purchaser if the divestiture does 
not occur within a certain period) 
 
creating or strengthening Origin’s (or an alternative approved 
purchaser’s) position as a viable, effective, stand-alone, independent and 
long term competitor in the distribution of cylinder and bulk non-
automotive LPG by enhancing its presence in regional Victoria (including 
some areas across the border into New South Wales) 
 
creating or strengthening Renegade’s (or an alternative approved 
purchaser’s) position as a viable, effective, stand-alone, independent and 
long term competitor in the distribution of cylinder and bulk non-
automotive LPG by enhancing its presence in regional New South Wales 
(including some areas across the border into Victoria) and the Australian 
Capital Territory 
 
ensuring that Origin and Renegade (or any other approved purchasers of 
the divestiture assets) have all the necessary related assets, personnel, 
transitional and other assistance and other rights to compete effectively 
with Elgas in the distribution of cylinder and bulk non-automotive LPG 
 
maintaining the economic viability, marketability, competitiveness and 
goodwill of the divestiture assets, and 
 
providing for the effective oversight of Elgas’ compliance with the Elgas 
undertaking. 
101. The ACCC considered that the divestures provided for in the Elgas undertaking 
would address the competition concerns in both state and regional markets, for 
the following reasons: 
 
The ACCC-approved purchasers of the assets to be divested, Origin and 
Renegade, already have businesses distributing non-automotive LPG. 
They are capable of effectively using their experience and existing assets 
to compete with Elgas and any other competitors in the divestment 
regions. 


 
Page 17 of 17 
 
The divestures would maintain or increase competition in the regions 
where competitive harm would be most likely to materialise as a result of 
the proposed acquisition. By acquiring the assets to be divested by 
Elgas, Renegade and Origin would immediately extend the reach of their 
respective distribution networks in Victoria, New South Wales and the 
Australian Capital Territory. This would strengthen their ability to compete 
with Elgas, and other competitors, in particular regional areas and more 
broadly on a state-wide basis. 
 
The acquisition of depots and transfer of customers would provide 
Renegade and Origin with greater economies of scale in their respective 
distribution networks, strengthening their competitive position. 
Conclusion 
102. Taking into account the undertakings given by Elgas and Kleenheat, the ACCC 
concluded that the proposed acquisition of Kleenheat’s east coast LPG business 
by Elgas would not be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening 
competition in any relevant market. 
