 
Page 1 of 17 
 
Statement of Issues 
24 August 2017 
Platinum Equity – proposed acquisition of OfficeMax 
Australia  
Purpose 
1. 
Platinum Equity, a global private equity group, proposes to acquire OfficeMax 
Australia (OfficeMax) from Office Depot, Inc. (the proposed acquisition). 
Platinum Equity recently acquired Staples Australia Pty Ltd (Staples) from 
Staples, Inc. Both Staples and OfficeMax supply office products, primarily to 
commercial and government customers, throughout Australia. 
2. 
This Statement of Issues: 
 
gives the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission’s (ACCC) 
preliminary views on competition issues arising from the proposed 
acquisition  
 
identifies areas for further inquiry by the ACCC 
 
invites interested parties to submit comments and information to assist the 
ACCC’s assessment of the issues. 
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views 
3. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is 
in section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits 
acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of 
substantially lessening competition in any market. 
4. 
The ACCC divides its preliminary views into three categories, 'issues of concern', 
'issues that may raise concerns' and ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’. For this 
matter, there is one issue that may raise concerns. 
Issue that may raise concerns 
5. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition may substantially 
lessen competition in the supply of traditional office products to large commercial 
and government customers in Australia.  


 
Platinum Equity – proposed acquisition of OfficeMax Australia 
 
Page 2 of 17 
6. 
The proposed acquisition would result in the horizontal aggregation of the two 
leading suppliers and reduce the number of credible suppliers from four to three, 
thereby further increasing concentration in an already concentrated market.  
7. 
The reduction in competition may lead to higher prices and/or lower levels of 
service to large customers.  
Making a submission 
8. 
The ACCC is seeking submissions from interested parties, particularly on the 
following key issues: 
 
The closeness of competition between Staples and OfficeMax, and 
between Staples and OfficeMax and other suppliers in the relevant market 
 
The extent to which large customers have viable alternatives, such as 
Complete Office Supplies (COS) or Lyreco Pty Ltd (Lyreco) 
 
The extent to which existing suppliers could expand or new entrants enter 
if the combined Staples-OfficeMax attempted to increase prices and/or 
decrease service levels.  
9. 
Detailed discussion of these and other issues, along with specific questions, is 
contained in this Statement of Issues.  
10. 
Interested parties should provide submissions by no later than 5pm on 7 
September 2017. Responses may be e-mailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with 
the title: Submission re: Platinum Equity / OfficeMax - attention Elizabeth Elias / 
Stella Leung. If you would like to discuss the matter with ACCC officers over the 
telephone or in person, or have any questions about this Statement of Issues, 
please contact Elizabeth Elias on 02 6243 1104 or Stella Leung on 03 9658 
6444.  
11. 
The ACCC anticipates making a final decision on 16 November 2017; however, 
this timeline can change. To keep abreast of possible changes in relation to 
timing and to find relevant documents, interested parties should visit the Mergers 
Register on the ACCC's website at www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
Confidentiality of submissions 
12. 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. It will 
not disclose submissions to third parties (except its advisors/consultants) unless 
compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or 
during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition 
and Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where possible so that you may 
have an opportunity to be heard. Therefore, if the information provided to the 
ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate as such. The ACCC’s Informal 
Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 


 
Platinum Equity – proposed acquisition of OfficeMax Australia 
 
Page 3 of 17 
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’ 
13. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well 
as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
14. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
interested parties with the basis for making further submissions should they 
consider it necessary. 
Timeline 
 
Date 
Event 
15 May 2017 
ACCC commenced review of the proposed 
acquisition 
2 June 2107 
Closing date for submissions from interested parties 
5 July 2017 
ACCC requested further information from the parties. 
Former provisional date for announcement of findings 
(20 July 2017) delayed 
19 July 2017 
ACCC received information from the parties 
24 August 2017 
ACCC publication of Statement of Issues 
7 September 2017 
Deadline for submissions from interested parties in 
response to this Statement of Issues 
16 November 2017 
Anticipated date for ACCC final decision  
 
The parties 
The acquirer – Platinum Equity 
15. 
Platinum Equity is a global private equity firm specialised in mergers, 
acquisitions, and operations of companies that provide mission-critical products, 
services, and solutions in diverse industries.1 In early 2017 it acquired the 
Australian and New Zealand businesses of Staples, Inc.  
                                                 
 
1 Platinum Equity, About Platinum Equity, viewed 23 August 2017, 
http://www.platinumequity.com/company. 


 
Platinum Equity – proposed acquisition of OfficeMax Australia 
 
Page 4 of 17 
16. 
Staples supplies office products to customers predominantly through the 
following platforms:  
a. ‘Staples Advantage’, which supplies office products to commercial and 
government customers primarily through an online ordering platform 
(www.staplesadvantage.com.au); sales are also made through an 
electronic data interchange (EDI) (an ordering functionality that integrates 
with a customer’s enterprise software), over the telephone and by fax  
b. an online store (www.staples.com.au), which typically supplies office 
products to consumers and small businesses  
c. an education-specific online store (www.staplesbacktoschool.com.au), 
which typically supplies education supplies to schools and parents 
d.  six retail outlets connected to distribution and delivery centres. 
17. 
Staples operates a national distribution centre in New South Wales, seven 
regional distribution centres across Victoria, Tasmania, Queensland, Western 
Australia and the Northern Territory, and sixteen regional delivery centres across 
Australia.  
The target – OfficeMax 
18. 
OfficeMax supplies office products to customers through the following platforms: 
a. ‘OrderMax’, which supplies office products to commercial and government 
customers through an online ordering platform (www.ordermax.com.au), 
EDI, over the telephone and by fax  
b. an online store ‘OfficeMax MyBusiness’ 
(https://mybusiness.officemax.com.au), which typically supplies office 
products to consumers and small businesses  
c. an education-specific online store (https://www.officemaxschools.com.au/), 
which supplies education supplies to schools and parents  
d. two retail stores in Western Australia, which predominantly supply office 
products to teachers and students.  
19. 
OfficeMax operates six distribution centres with sales offices across New South 
Wales, Tasmania, Queensland, Western Australia and the Northern Territory. It 
also operates an additional sales office in Melbourne. 
The proposed acquisition 
20. 
Following its acquisition of the Staples businesses in Australia and New Zealand 
from Staples, Inc. in early 2017, Platinum Equity now proposes to acquire the 
Australian and New Zealand businesses of Office Depot (OfficeMax Australia 
and OfficeMax NZ). 


 
Platinum Equity – proposed acquisition of OfficeMax Australia 
 
Page 5 of 17 
21. 
On 18 April 2017, Platinum Equity announced that it had signed an agreement 
with Office Depot, Inc. to acquire all of the shares in OfficeMax Australia and 
OfficeMax NZ.2 
Industry background 
22. 
‘Office products’ covers a broad range of products that are used in an office, 
whether at home or in a business, or more generally in the workplace. Key office 
product categories include: paper, stationery, ink and toner, business machines 
(such as tablets, printers, scanners), computer and electronic accessories, 
kitchen supplies, cleaning and janitorial supplies, office furniture, safety 
equipment and clothing, packaging supplies, promotional products (that is, items 
branded with corporate logos) and printing services. 
23. 
Staples and OfficeMax are both national suppliers of office products, focusing on 
the supply of office products to commercial and government customers.  
24. 
Industry participants for the supply of office products consist of manufacturers, 
wholesalers, suppliers and customers. 
25. 
The main participants in the office products industry are as follows: 
a. Manufacturers: include major global corporations across a range of 
product categories, such as Hewlett-Packard, Canon, Fuji Xerox, Paper 
Australia, 3M, Faber-Castell and ACCO Brands. Manufacturers sell through 
wholesalers, direct to suppliers and also, in some cases, direct to end-
customers.  
b. Wholesalers: purchase products from a range of manufacturers and resell 
them to suppliers, as well as importing products from overseas. 
Wholesalers include major technology wholesalers such as Synnex and 
Ingram Micro; paper and related products wholesalers, such as BJ Ball; 
and stationery and office products wholesalers, such as GNS Wholesale. 
c. Suppliers: purchase office products from manufacturers and wholesalers 
for re-supply to end-customers. Suppliers include: 
(i) general office product suppliers: supply a comprehensive range of 
office products. Examples include Staples, OfficeMax, COS, 
Lyreco, Officeworks, Office National, Office Choice and Quick 
Corporate Australia 
(ii) ‘specialist’ dealers: tend to focus on particular categories of office 
products. These can include computer/electronic accessories, 
business machines, kitchen supplies, cleaning and janitorial 
supplies, safety equipment and clothing. Specialist dealers include 
Bidvest, Blackwoods, Bunzl, Fuji Xerox, Datacom, PFD, Schiavello, 
BlueStar, Finsbury and Vistaprint. Other specialist dealers focus on 
                                                 
 
2 Platinum Equity, Platinum Equity to Acquire OfficeMax Business in Australia and New Zealand from 
Office Depot, 18 April 2017, viewed 23 August 2017, 
http://www.platinumequity.com/news/1179/platinum-equity-to-acquire-officemax-business-in-australia-
and-new-zealand-from-office-depot. 


 
Platinum Equity – proposed acquisition of OfficeMax Australia 
 
Page 6 of 17 
supply to customers in particular channels, such as Campion or 
Maxim in the education channel  
(iii) Retailers: such as JB Hi-Fi, Harvey Norman, Woolworths, Coles, 
Big W, Australia Post and Cartridge World (although some of these, 
such as JB Hi-Fi, have a commercial division focusing on business-
to-business (B2B) sales). 
d. End-customers: purchase office products for their own use. They range 
from individuals and small businesses to large corporates, schools and 
government departments and agencies. 
Overview of general office products suppliers  
26. 
Examples of other general office products suppliers include: 
a. COS: an Australian based supplier of office products to commercial and 
government customers.3 It has nine distribution centres around Australia.4 
In addition to its office products business, COS also offers office fit-out 
solutions through COS Working Spaces.5 
b. Lyreco: part of a global group of companies that provide workplace supplies 
to commercial and government customers.6 Lyreco Pty Ltd is a wholly-
owned Australian subsidiary of Lyreco SAS (France). It operates five 
distribution centres in New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, Western 
Australia and Tasmania.7 
c. Officeworks: an Australian chain of retail office supplies stores, owned by 
Wesfarmers Limited.8 It focuses on the supply of office products to 
individuals and micro, small and medium-sized commercial customers.9 It 
has more than 160 stores across Australia.10 
d. Office National: a network of independently owned and operated local 
business supplies stores, supplying a range of products including office 
supplies, ink and toner, paper, technology, furniture, facilities supplies, print 
and promotion and workwear.11  
                                                 
 
3 Complete Office Supplies, Why COS?, viewed 23 August 2017, http://www.cos.net.au/c/why-cos. 
4 Complete Office Supplies, viewed 23 August 2017, http://www.cos.net.au/ and Complete Office 
Supplies, Contact Us, viewed 23 August 2017, http://www.cos.net.au/c/contact-us. 
5 Complete Office Supplies Working Spaces, viewed 23 August 2017, 
http://www.cosworkingspaces.com.au/. 
6 Lyreco, Lyreco Subsidiaries, viewed 23 August 2017, http://australia-
corp.lyreco.com/gbr/international-coverage,925/lyreco-subsidiaries,1719.html  
7 Lyreco, Contact, viewed 23 August 2017, http://australia-corp.lyreco.com/gbr/contact.html.  
8 Officeworks, Who we are, viewed 23 August 2017, 
https://www.officeworks.com.au/information/about-us/who-we-are. 
9 Officeworks, Who we are, viewed 23 August 2017, 
https://www.officeworks.com.au/information/about-us/who-we-are. 
10 Officeworks, Who we are, viewed 23 August 2017, 
https://www.officeworks.com.au/information/about-us/who-we-are.  
11 Office National, About Us, viewed 23 August 2017, 
https://www.officenational.com.au/shop/en/obb2cstore/about-us. 


 
Platinum Equity – proposed acquisition of OfficeMax Australia 
 
Page 7 of 17 
e. Office Choice: an independent group of local retailers, supplying a range of 
products including stationery, office supplies, technology and furniture 
products, in addition to complete office solutions such as canteen, janitorial, 
first aid supplies and printing services.12 It caters for a broad range of 
customers including small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), 
government customers, educational institutions and individual customers.13  
f. Quick Corporate Australia Pty Ltd: a member of the Office Choice buying 
group.14 It provides a range of products, for example, office supplies, 
paper, ink and toner, technology, facilities supplies, furniture and print 
management.15 It is located in New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, 
Western Australia and South Australia.16 
Previous ACCC decisions 
2015 ACCC review of Staples, Inc.’s proposed acquisition of Office Depot, Inc.  
27. 
In 2015, Staples, Inc. proposed to acquire Office Depot, Inc. The ACCC 
conducted a public review of that transaction insofar as it concerned the 
Australian businesses of Staples and OfficeMax. It decided not to oppose that 
transaction. On the basis of its review at that time, the ACCC considered that the 
acquisition was unlikely to raise competition concerns in Australia.17 Staples, Inc. 
and Office Depot, Inc. decided to terminate the global transaction in May 2016 
after a United States District Court granted a preliminary injunction after the 
United States Federal Trade Commission filed an administrative complaint 
challenging the transaction.18 
28. 
The ACCC notes that in 2015 very few concerns were expressed by market 
participants and the ACCC considered that Officeworks, the largest supplier in 
the wider Australian office products industry, was likely, in the future, to be a 
credible competitive threat to the merged firm. A higher level of concern is being 
expressed from market participants in the context of the proposed acquisition 
this time round, and market inquiries suggest that Officeworks has not expanded 
significantly into the supply of large customers and appears to have no plans to 
do so. 
                                                 
 
12 Office Choice, About Us, viewed 23 August 2017, http://www.officechoice.com.au/about-us/. 
13 Office Choice, About Us, viewed 23 August 2017, http://www.officechoice.com.au/about-us/. 
14 Stationery News, Quick Corporate Australia moves to Office Choice, 3 July 2017, viewed 23 August 
2017, http://www.stationerynews.com.au/news/quick-corporate-australia-moves-to-office-choice.  
15 Quick Corporate Australia, About Us, viewed 23 August 2017, 
https://www.quickcorporate.com.au/qc/QUICK_CORPORATE_AUSTRALIA-About_Us.htm. 
16 Quick Corporate Australia, About Us, viewed 23 August 2017, 
https://www.quickcorporate.com.au/qc/QUICK_CORPORATE_AUSTRALIA-About_Us.htm. 
17 ACCC, Mergers Register, viewed 23 August 2017, 
http://registers.accc.gov.au/content/index.phtml/itemId/1188435/fromItemId/751043  
18 See, for example, Staples, Staples and Office Depot to Terminate Merger Agreement, 10 May 2016, 
viewed 23 August 2017, http://staples.newshq.businesswire.com/press-release/corporate/staples-and-
office-depot-terminate-merger-agreement and Office Depot, Office Depot Responds to District Court’s 
Ruling on Merger with Staples, 10 May 2016, viewed 23 August 2017, 
http://news.officedepot.com/press-release/corporatefinancial-news/office-depot-responds-district-courts-
ruling-merger-staples.  


 
Platinum Equity – proposed acquisition of OfficeMax Australia 
 
Page 8 of 17 
Related reviews 
Proposed acquisition of OfficeMax Australia by Complete Office Supplies 
29. 
On 20 July 2017, the ACCC commenced a public review of a proposal by COS 
to acquire OfficeMax. That review is ongoing, and information is available on the 
ACCC’s public register. 
Market definition 
30. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the relevant market for assessing the 
competitive effects of the proposed acquisition is likely to be the supply of 
traditional office products to large commercial and government customers in 
Australia. 
Product dimension of the market 
31. 
The ACCC’s starting point for delineating relevant markets to assess the 
competitive effects of the proposed acquisition involves identifying the products 
actually or potentially supplied by the merger parties. The ACCC then considers 
what other products and sources of supply constitute sufficiently close 
substitutes to provide a significant source of constraint on the merged firm. 
Office product categories 
32. 
Two broad categories of office products can be distinguished: ‘core’ and ‘non-
core’ products, which are also referred to as ‘traditional’ and ‘non-traditional’ 
products respectively. Industry reports produced by Penfold Research for the 
Australian office products industry (which include information obtained from 
industry participants) define those categories along the following lines: 
a. ‘Core’ office products: include consumable office products such as writing 
instruments, paper, labels, envelopes, filing and presentation products, 
general stationery, ink and toner. 
b. ‘Non-core’ products: comprise a broader range of products used in the 
workplace that have not traditionally been supplied by office product 
suppliers. These include printing solutions, cleaning and janitorial products, 
kitchen supplies, office furniture, work wear and safety equipment.19 
33. 
The ACCC has considered whether the relevant product market in which to 
assess the competitive impact of the proposed acquisition is a broad market 
including both ‘core’ and ‘non-core’ office products, or a narrower market for 
‘core’ or ‘traditional’ office products.  
34. 
The ACCC is of the preliminary view that the relevant market for assessing the 
potential impact on competition of the proposed acquisition is likely to be the 
market for the supply of traditional office products.  
                                                 
 
19 Penfold Research Report, Office Products in Australia 2016-18. See, for example, Penfold Research, 
News, viewed 23 August 2017, http://www.penfoldresearch.com.au/news-page/. 


 
Platinum Equity – proposed acquisition of OfficeMax Australia 
 
Page 9 of 17 
35. 
The ACCC acknowledges that ‘traditional’ or ‘core’ office products suppliers, 
such as Staples and OfficeMax, appear to have broadened their product ranges 
in recent years to include ‘non-traditional’ or ‘non-core’ products. However, the 
ACCC notes that for ‘non-traditional’ office products, customers are more able to 
substitute to alternatives than for ‘traditional’ office products, such that a 
combined Staples-OfficeMax would not be able to profitably raise the prices of 
those products. In particular, there is a range of other suppliers of ‘non-core’ 
office products, such as Bunzl (cleaning services) and Woolworths (kitchen 
supplies). 
36. 
There is also a question as to whether customers may be more able to substitute 
to alternative suppliers for some of the products included in the ‘core’ or 
‘traditional’ office products category, such as ink and toner, or paper, such that 
the combined Staples-OfficeMax may not have the ability or incentive to raise 
the price of such products. For example, it appears that ink and toner are often 
supplied separately by vendors of managed print services (MPS), such as 
Hewlett-Packard and Fuji Xerox.  
37. 
At this stage, the ACCC considers that it can be left open whether separate 
product markets should be defined for separate product categories, such as ink 
and toner, or paper. The proposed acquisition raises preliminary competition 
concerns irrespective of whether the relevant market is defined more narrowly. 
However, the ACCC is continuing to examine whether particular office product 
categories should be included in or excluded from the relevant product market.  
Customer type and size 
38. 
The information before the ACCC indicates that different customer types and 
sizes have different demand characteristics for their office products supplier.  
39. 
Small to medium-sized customers typically have less structured purchasing 
requirements and are less likely to require delivery to multiple locations. They 
are more likely to make ad hoc purchases of particular products when required, 
including from retail stores, rather than purchasing under a contract with a 
specialist dealer. 
40. 
In contrast, large commercial and government customers require their office 
products supplier to exhibit distinct characteristics, including in relation to: 
a. Product range: customers typically prefer a ‘one stop shop’ for the 
purchase of a broad range of office products.  
b. Services: such as integrated IT processing systems with specialised 
ordering, EDI capability, account management and reporting capabilities.  
c. Distribution capacity: including the infrastructure to supply high volumes 
and a wide variety of office products to multiple geographic locations within 
very short delivery timeframes, typically next-day.  


 
Platinum Equity – proposed acquisition of OfficeMax Australia 
 
Page 10 of 17 
41. 
Different suppliers have different criteria to categorise customers, and it appears 
that there is no generally accepted industry standard. The main industry 
reference report, the Penfold Research Report, distinguishes business 
customers as follows: 
a. Micro: less than 5 full-time equivalent employees (FTE) 
b. Small: 5-19 FTE 
c. Medium: 20-99 FTE 
d. Large: 100+ FTE; and 
e. Government.20 
42. 
Other categorisations are based on the total amount of annual expenditure on 
office products or the total annual spend per employee, or a combination of both 
annual spend and number of FTEs. 
43. 
The ACCC’s market inquiries have indicated that large commercial customers 
generally enter into contracts with office supplies providers to supply all of their 
traditional office supplies, in a ‘one stop shop’ arrangement. These contracts are 
often awarded on the basis of tenders and are typically of several years’ 
duration. In addition, as set out in paragraph 40 above, suppliers to large 
customers need to meet specific requirements concerning, among other things, 
EDI capability and logistics, product range, service, processing systems, and 
invoicing.   
44. 
The ACCC is still considering the most appropriate way to define ‘large’ 
customers, noting that it may not be necessary to identify or define that term 
precisely as it may not be determinative of the ACCC's competition assessment.  
45. 
At this stage, the ACCC has included government customers in the relevant 
market. However, it is considering whether government customers procure office 
supplies differently to private businesses such that they form a separate relevant 
market. For example, government customers may be more inclined to use panel 
arrangements with multiple suppliers, allowing them to multi-source.  
46. 
Supply-side considerations (in particular, the ability of suppliers that supply other 
products to large businesses to switch to traditional office products; or the ability 
of suppliers who do not currently supply large commercial and government 
customers to commence supplying to such customers) are examined in the 
competitive assessment sections below.  
Geographic scope of the market 
47. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the geographic scope of the market is 
national. The parties and their competitors compete for large customer contracts 
across Australia, and market participants refer to the importance of being able to 
supply nationally and of national distribution networks. 
                                                 
 
20 Penfold Research Report, Office Products in Australia 2016-18. See, for example, the report outline 
available at http://www.penfoldresearch.com.au/wp-
content/uploads/2017/03/Office_Products_in_Australia_2016-2018_REPORT_OUTLINE.pdf. 


 
Platinum Equity – proposed acquisition of OfficeMax Australia 
 
Page 11 of 17 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary views about 
the definition of the relevant market(s). In particular, market participants may wish to 
comment on: 
 
The extent to which alternative sources of supply for traditional office products are 
readily available for large customers.   
 
The relevant threshold for defining different business customer categories, in 
particular ‘large’ commercial and government customers. Which types of 
customers are more likely to require a ‘one stop shop’ for a broad range of office 
products?  
 
The extent to which government customers procure office supplies differently to 
private businesses (for example, whether government customers are more likely to 
multi-source than commercial customers). 
 
The extent to which there may be separate, narrower regional and/or local markets 
for the supply of office products across Australia. 
Issue that may raise concerns: reduction in competition in 
the supply of traditional office products to large 
commercial and government customers 
48. 
Based upon its inquiries to date, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the 
proposed acquisition may substantially lessen competition in the supply of 
traditional office products to large commercial and government customers in 
Australia. 
Increased market concentration 
49. 
The ACCC’s market inquiries have revealed that there are four main suppliers of 
traditional office products to large commercial and government customers in 
Australia: 
a. Staples 
b. OfficeMax  
c. COS; and 
d. Lyreco. 
50. 
Information obtained during market inquiries suggests that Staples is the market 
leader, with the largest share of the relevant market, followed by OfficeMax, with 
COS and Lyreco some way behind.  
51. 
The information available to date suggests that a combined Staples-OfficeMax 
would account for a substantial share of traditional office products to large 
commercial and government customers in Australia, and that the next largest 
competitors, COS and Lyreco, would have a significantly smaller share.  


 
Platinum Equity – proposed acquisition of OfficeMax Australia 
 
Page 12 of 17 
52. 
Staples submits that there are no accurate third party sources of data regarding 
the supply of office products in Australia, and that it is difficult to estimate market 
shares. 
53. 
The data submitted by Staples and OfficeMax to indicate market shares is 
subject to considerable uncertainty as it is based on a number of assumptions, 
including in relation to the relevant products included in the market and the 
customer delineation. Therefore, in order to obtain a clearer picture of 
concentration, the ACCC is continuing to gather data, including tender and 
customer acquisition data.  
54. 
The information obtained during market inquiries to date indicates that Staples 
and OfficeMax are close competitors, and the ACCC is of the preliminary view 
that the proposed acquisition would further increase concentration in what is 
already a concentrated market. The proposed acquisition would result in the 
horizontal aggregation of the two leading suppliers of traditional office products 
to large customers in Australia, thus reinforcing Staples’ current position as 
market leader.  
55. 
The most direct effect of the proposed acquisition would be the loss of 
competition between Staples and OfficeMax. 
Removal of competitive rivalry and lack of viable alternative suppliers 
56. 
The ACCC’s market inquiries indicate that large commercial and government 
customers have benefited historically from competition between Staples and 
OfficeMax when tendering for office supplies. Some market participants have 
expressed concerns that this competitive tension would be lost as a result of the 
proposed acquisition and that a combined Staples-OfficeMax would have the 
ability to profitably increase prices and/or reduce service levels. 
57. 
The ACCC is of the preliminary view that Staples and OfficeMax compete very 
closely, and may be each other’s closest competitors in providing a ‘one stop 
shop’ for large customers’ office product needs, in terms of their product ranges, 
pricing, tendering activity, target customers, services (for example, IT processing 
systems and delivery times) and their ability to supply nationwide (including 
distribution capacity). Indeed, some customers consider that Staples and 
OfficeMax are the only two suppliers who can provide this ‘one stop shop’ 
service.  
58. 
The ACCC’s investigation suggests that there are a limited number of alternative 
suppliers to Staples and OfficeMax with the necessary product range, 
processing systems and logistical capability to satisfy the requirements of large 
customers. A number of market participants have identified COS and Lyreco as 
possible alternative suppliers. In particular, COS and Lyreco supply a number of 
large customers and have won customers from Staples and OfficeMax. COS in 
particular has had success in achieving positions on government tender panels, 
although the ACCC understands that winning a position on a panel is not a 
guarantee of sales. This is because under a panel arrangement individual 
government departments and agencies can choose which panel member to 
source from, and often conduct a further competitive process between the 
panellists before entering contractual arrangements. 


 
Platinum Equity – proposed acquisition of OfficeMax Australia 
 
Page 13 of 17 
59. 
The ACCC is of the preliminary view that COS and Lyreco compete with Staples 
and OfficeMax for large customers. However, they appear to operate on a 
smaller scale, and to focus more on medium-sized customers. In addition, some 
doubts have been expressed as to the capacity of COS and Lyreco and their 
ability to scale-up to compete effectively with a combined Staples-OfficeMax.  
60. 
Other suppliers include buying groups, such as Office Brands and Office Choice, 
groupings of independent local retailers. They appear generally to be used by 
small and medium-sized businesses and operate under regional networks. 
Market participants have suggested that such suppliers are less likely to be able 
to supply a broad range of office products at competitive prices, and are 
generally unable to provide the specialised IT systems required by large 
customers with high volume purchases. The available information indicates that 
there are limited instances where such buying groups have been successful in 
securing large commercial and government customers, and that where they 
have been successful this has tended to be limited to specific geographical 
locations. 
61. 
Category specialist suppliers, such as suppliers of ink, toner and/or paper (for 
example, Hewlett-Packard), and original equipment manufacturers (such as 
Dell), supply specific product categories only. As noted above, many large 
customers prefer a contractual arrangement with a single supplier for a broad 
range of office products. While large customers appear to utilise other sources 
from time to time, such as supermarkets and other retailers such as Officeworks, 
Woolworths, Coles, Big W and Australia Post, (often referred to as ‘off-contract 
spend’ or ‘leakage’), such suppliers do not offer the full product range required 
by large customers, or have the technical expertise required. The ACCC does 
not consider that such suppliers are likely to impose a sufficient competitive 
constraint on a combined Staples-OfficeMax such as to prevent a price rise 
and/or a decrease in service levels.  
62. 
Staples and OfficeMax have submitted that Officeworks competes for large 
customers. However, based on the ACCC’s inquiries to date, it appears that 
Officeworks’ focus is on retail customers and small to medium business 
customers. Its website states that it caters for “micro, small and medium 
business customers”, and its CEO has recently stated publicly that the customer 
set it chooses to serve is “small, micro and medium business customers, 
householders and students”.21 Market inquiries suggest that many market 
participants do not consider Officeworks to be a credible supplier to large 
commercial and government customers. In particular, some large customers 
have indicated that Officeworks has limited ability to meet their requirements for 
a broad product range and service level capabilities (including EDI capability and 
logistics). As noted above, Officeworks does not appear to have expanded 
significantly into the supply of large commercial and government customers in 
the last few years. 
                                                 
 
21 Australian Financial Review, Officeworks ramps up Amazon defences, 15 June 2017, viewed 23 
August 2017, http://www.afr.com/business/retail/officeworks-ramps-up-amazon-defences-20170615-
gwrnz1. 


 
Platinum Equity – proposed acquisition of OfficeMax Australia 
 
Page 14 of 17 
63. 
Staples and OfficeMax have also referred to Amazon as a credible supplier in 
the foreseeable future. However, Amazon is not yet established in Australia, and 
the ACCC understands that its current entry plans focus on the retail level.22  
64. 
In the light of the above, it appears that there may be a lack of viable alternative 
suppliers that will place a sufficient competitive constraint on a combined 
Staples-OfficeMax. 
65. 
Alternative suppliers are considered further in the section on ‘Barriers to entry 
and expansion’ below. 
Barriers to entry and expansion 
66. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the threat of new entry or expansion in the 
relevant market may not constrain a price increase or a decrease in service 
levels imposed by a combined Staples-OfficeMax.  
67. 
The information before the ACCC indicates that there are barriers to new entry 
and to expansion by existing competitors.  
68. 
Barriers include: 
a. Sunk capital expenditure to invest in distribution centres of adequate size to 
offer a sufficiently broad product range; obtaining ISO certifications;23 
integrated IT systems with appropriate account management and reporting 
capabilities; national distribution capability.  
b. Incumbency advantages in retaining customers and rebates used to gain 
and retain business, which smaller competitors would have difficulty 
competing with. Available information suggests that customer retention 
rates are high. 
c. Previous experience and a track record in meeting delivery requirements, 
including national delivery, within very short timeframes, typically next-day.  
69. 
New entrants would also have to compete with a combined Staples-OfficeMax 
on price, one of the most important criteria for large customers. Market feedback 
suggests that it is already difficult for smaller firms to compete on price. A 
combined Staples-OfficeMax is likely to be able to take advantage of additional 
economies of scale and network density in operating a large scale delivery 
operation with integrated IT systems which provide the ordering and reporting 
features that large business customers require, and a ‘one stop shop’ for all of 
their customers’ office product needs.   
70. 
In addition, the ACCC’s market inquiries suggest that sales of traditional office 
products have been declining as a result of the digitisation of the workplace, and 
that this trend is expected to continue. A number of market participants have 
indicated that it would not make commercial sense to enter or expand into the 
                                                 
 
22 See, for example, Australian Financial Review, Amazon breaks silence on Australian retail plans, 20 
April 2017, viewed 23 August 2017, http://www.afr.com/business/retail/amazon-breaks-silence-on-
australian-retail-plans-20170419-gvnvlp. 
23 ISO certifications are internationally recognised quality management certifications. See, for example, 
ISO Quality Services Ltd, About Us, viewed 23 August 2017, https://www.isoqsltd.com/about-us/.   


 
Platinum Equity – proposed acquisition of OfficeMax Australia 
 
Page 15 of 17 
supply of office products to large customers in current market conditions. As 
already noted, market inquiries suggest that Officeworks has not expanded 
significantly into supplying large commercial and government customers in the 
last few years, and has no current plans to do so. 
71. 
These barriers to entry and expansion mean that timely entry/expansion on a 
scale sufficient to constrain a combined Staples-OfficeMax may be unlikely. 
However, the ACCC is continuing to explore this issue. In particular, the ACCC is 
considering whether existing market participants could readily expand in 
response to a price increase by a combined Staples-OfficeMax, and whether 
suppliers in adjacent markets (such as retail suppliers and suppliers of small to 
medium-sized businesses) could readily commence supplying large customers 
in response to an attempted price increase by a combined Staples-OfficeMax.  
Countervailing power 
72. 
Countervailing power exists when buyers have special characteristics that 
enable them to credibly threaten to bypass the merged firm, such as by vertically 
integrating into the upstream market, establishing importing operations or 
sponsoring new entry, such that this constrains any attempted increase in 
market power by a supplier.24 
73. 
Countervailing power is more than the ability of one large buyer to negotiate 
favourable terms and price relative to other buyers. A significant proportion of 
customers must be shielded from the effects of market power if countervailing 
power is to prevent a substantial lessening of competition in the relevant 
market(s).  
74. 
The ACCC considers it unlikely that large customers would commence supplying 
traditional office products themselves or sponsor new entry in response to a 
price increase or decrease in service quality by a combined Staples-OfficeMax. 
In particular, office supplies typically make up a very small proportion of the total 
operating expenditure of large customers, and do not form part of their core 
business.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants as to whether the proposed 
acquisition would remove a key source of competition in the supply of traditional office 
products to large commercial and government customers in Australia. In particular 
market participants may wish to comment on the following: 
 
Who the main suppliers of traditional office products to large customers are. 
 
The extent to which Staples and OfficeMax have competed in the past and 
compete currently.  
 
The extent to which Staples and OfficeMax compete with other suppliers in the 
relevant market. 
                                                 
 
24 See ACCC Merger Guidelines, November 2008, at paras. 7.48-7.51, 
https://www.accc.gov.au/system/files/Merger%20guidelines.pdf.   


 
Platinum Equity – proposed acquisition of OfficeMax Australia 
 
Page 16 of 17 
 
The extent to which a combined Staples-OfficeMax would be constrained from 
raising prices and/or decreasing service levels by other suppliers of traditional 
office products. 
Large Customers 
 
Whether you have switched, or would switch, between suppliers, and if so from 
whom and to whom and the reasons for switching (for example, price, service 
levels, distribution or IT capabilities, etc.). 
 
The importance of a ‘one stop shop’, whether you would consider disaggregating 
purchases, and, if so, in what circumstances and in relation to which products.  
 
What is your annual spend on ‘traditional’ and ‘non-traditional’ office products? 
 
Whether you monitor ‘off contract’ purchases (or ‘leakage’), and, if so, what 
proportion of your total annual spend does it make up. 
 
For government customers with a panel of suppliers, what is the percentage 
breakdown of purchases between panel members? Is there a preference for a 
particular supplier on the panel, and if so, what are the reasons for this? 
 
The extent to which you would consider the pricing of other retailers (such as 
Officeworks, Woolworths or Coles) when assessing tender bid pricing. 
 
When making ongoing purchases under contract, the extent to which you check 
contract prices against other retail prices (such as Officeworks, Woolworths or 
Coles), and if so which companies you would check against. 
 
The extent to which reputation / a proven track record is important, including with 
regard to meeting delivery requirements (including product range and national 
delivery within short timeframes). 
Suppliers 
 
Whether you have won or lost any large customer accounts to Staples, OfficeMax, 
COS, Lyreco, or others, and, if so, from or to whom, and which customers were 
won or lost. 
 
The minimum efficient scale and scope of operation required to compete effectively 
with a combined Staples-OfficeMax. 
 
The ease with which existing suppliers of traditional office products could expand 
or new entrants enter in response to an attempt by a combined Staples-OfficeMax 
to increase prices and/or decrease service levels. 
 
Any examples of recent attempts at entry or expansion and whether any such 
attempts have been successful or not, and why; and whether growth was organic 
or via acquisition. 
 
How the proposed acquisition might change the potential for entry and/or 
expansion in the relevant market. 


 
Platinum Equity – proposed acquisition of OfficeMax Australia 
 
Page 17 of 17 
 
The extent to which tender processes / government panel arrangements may 
affect a new entrant’s ability to reach efficient scale and scope in a timely manner. 
 
The extent to which reputation / a proven track record is important to large 
customers in order to operate successfully in the relevant market, including with 
regard to meeting delivery requirements (including product range and national 
delivery, within short timeframes). 
 
What investments would have to be made in order for a firm to enter / expand 
successfully in the relevant market. Please indicate type, scale and indicative cost 
if possible. 
ACCC's future steps 
75. 
As noted above, the ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on 
the issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that may 
be relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. Submissions are to be 
received by the ACCC no later than 7 September 2017 and should be emailed 
to mergers@accc.gov.au. 
76. 
The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
77. 
The ACCC intends to announce its final view publicly by 16 November 2017. 
However the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose 
of explaining the ACCC’s final view may be published following the ACCC’s 
public announcement of its final view. 
