Public Competition Assessment
15 March 2007
Pacific Terminals (Australia) Pty Ltd - proposed acquisition of bulk
liquid terminals from Craig Mostyn & Co Pty Ltd
INTRODUCTION
1. On 7 March 2007, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC)
announced its decision not to oppose Pacific Terminals (Australia) Pty Ltd’s
(Pacific Terminals) proposed acquisition of bulk liquid terminals at Brisbane and
Burnie from Craig Mostyn & Co Pty Ltd (Craig Mostyn) (the proposed
acquisition). The ACCC formed the view that the proposed acquisition would be
unlikely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in any relevant
market in contravention of section 50 of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (the Act).
2. The ACCC formed its view on the basis of the information provided by the merger
parties and information obtained during market inquiries. This Public Competition
Assessment outlines the basis on which the ACCC has reached its decision on the
proposed acquisition, subject to confidentiality considerations.
PUBLIC COMPETITION ASSESSMENT
3. To provide an enhanced level of transparency and procedural fairness in its decision
making process, the ACCC issues a Public Competition Assessment for all
transaction proposals where:
a merger is rejected;
a merger is subject to enforceable undertakings;
the merger parties seek such disclosure; or
a merger is approved but raises important issues that the ACCC considers
should be made public.
4. This Public Competition Assessment has been issued because Pacific Terminals’
proposed acquisition of bulk liquid terminals from Craig Mostyn is considered to
raise issues of interest to the public.
5. By issuing Public Competition Assessments, the ACCC aims to provide the market
with a better understanding of the ACCC's analysis of various markets and the
associated merger and competition issues. It also alerts the market to the


Pacific Terminals (Australia) Pty Ltd - proposed acquisition of
bulk liquid terminals from Craig Mostyn & Co Pty Ltd
-2-
circumstances where the ACCC’s assessment of the competition conditions in
particular markets is changing, or likely to change, because of developments.
6. Each Public Competition Assessment is specific to the particular transaction under
review by the ACCC. While some transaction proposals may involve the same or
related markets, it should not be assumed that the analysis and decision outlined in
one Public Competition Assessment will be conclusive of the ACCC’s view in
respect of other transaction proposals, as each matter will be considered on its own
merits.
7. Many of the ACCC’s decisions will involve consideration of both non-confidential
and confidential information provided by the merger parties and market
participants. In order to maintain the confidentiality of particular information,
Public Competition Assessments do not contain any confidential information or its
sources. While the ACCC aims to provide an appropriately detailed explanation of
the basis for the ACCC decision, where this is not possible, maintaining
confidentiality will be the ACCC's paramount concern, and accordingly a Public
Competition Assessment may not definitively explain all issues and the ACCC’s
analysis of such issues.
THE PARTIES
The acquirer: Pacific Terminals (Australia) Pty Ltd
8. Pacific Terminals owns and operates a number of bulk liquid storage sites - most
relevantly at Pinkenba (Port of Brisbane) and at Devonport and Bell Bay
(Tasmania). At these sites, Pacific Terminals provides storage for a variety of
hazardous and non-hazardous liquids including tallow, vegetable oils, chemicals
and fuels. Pacific Terminals also provides associated services at these terminals
such as tanker washing, drumming, fats and oils bleaching, and a weighbridge
service.
9. Pacific Terminals is a wholly owned subsidiary of Gardner Smith (Holdings) Pty
Ltd. Gardner Smith (Holdings) Pty Ltd has several subsidiaries, another one of
which is Gardner Smith Pty Limited (referred to as Gardner Smith in this paper) –
a supplier of tallows and vegetable oils. Pacific Terminals provides storage to
Gardner Smith as well as other traders of bulk liquids.
The target: Craig Mostyn & Co Pty Ltd
10. Craig Mostyn is a diversified food, agribusiness and logistics company serving
customers and suppliers in over 60 countries. Craig Mostyn owns and operates a
number of bulk liquid storage sites, including at Burnie (Tasmania) and Hamilton
(Port of Brisbane). At these sites Craig Mostyn provides storage to other parties for
a variety of non-hazardous bulk liquids such as tallow, vegetable oils, fish oils and
molasses.


Pacific Terminals (Australia) Pty Ltd - proposed acquisition of
bulk liquid terminals from Craig Mostyn & Co Pty Ltd
-3-
Other industry participants
11. The major edible oil and fat traders active in Queensland are Kerry Australia,
Gardner Smith and Colyer Fehr. The ConAgra Trade Group and Goodman Fielder
are also traders in fats and oils. Major producers of tallow in Queensland include
Teys Bros, AJ Bush & Sons, Nippon Meat Packers and Australian Meat Holdings.
THE PROPOSED TRANSACTION
12. Pacific Terminals currently operates bulk storage facilities at several Australian
ports including at Pinkenba (Brisbane). Pacific Terminals proposes to purchase the
assets belonging to Craig Mostyn located at Hamilton (Brisbane) with the intention
of relocating these tanks to its site at Pinkenba. This includes 31 tanks with a total
capacity of 15,500m3 as well as all plant and equipment located at the facility.
13. As a part of the agreement to acquire the assets owed by Craig Mostyn in Brisbane,
Pacific Terminals is required to acquire three tanks owned by Craig Mostyn at
Burnie in Tasmania. Market inquiries indicated that Craig Mostyn’s lease on the
site at Burnie has expired and will not be renewed. Pacific Terminals has indicated
these tanks will be moved to Devonport, where it currently operates bulk storage
facilities.
14. Craig Mostyn ceased trading tallow in international markets in 1988 and has since
refocussed its business in other areas including abattoir and meat processing
operations, importing and processing fish products and exporting fresh produce,
grains and meats.
15. Consistent with its new business direction, Craig Mostyn has decided to exit the
business of handling and storing bulk liquids. Craig Mostyn sold its Newcastle
terminal late last year to Cargill Australia.
INDUSTRY BACKGROUND
16. The proposed acquisition arises in the context of the tallow and vegetable oil
industry. Tallow is a purified fatty material extracted from several animal species
and used for a variety of purposes including making edible oils, frying fats, soap,
industrial lubricants and candles.
17. Tallow is a by-product and its production is therefore tied to slaughter numbers.
Australian production generally averages around 500 000 tonnes per annum, and
approximately 70% of all tallow produced in Australia is exported.1 In 2005, over
50% of Australian tallow was produced in Queensland or northern New South
Wales.2
1See:
http://www.mla.com.au/TopicHierarchy/MarketInformation/DomesticMarkets/Processing/Coproduc
ts/Rendered+co-products.htm; last accessed 13.03.07
2 See: http://www.parliament.vic.gov.au/enrc/inquiries/biofuels/submissions/Sub_40_CSIRO.pdf; last
accessed: 13.03.07


Pacific Terminals (Australia) Pty Ltd - proposed acquisition of
bulk liquid terminals from Craig Mostyn & Co Pty Ltd
-4-
18. Dealers in tallow (including manufacturers, traders and wholesalers) use bulk
storage terminals at ports to consolidate product purchased on a continuous basis
prior to export. Vegetable oils are regularly imported through the Port of Brisbane
but rarely exported. Traders, wholesalers and end users of imported vegetable oils
use bulk storage terminals at ports to store imported product, enabling them to
distribute it as needed.
AREAS OF OVERLAP
19.
Craig Mostyn’s and Pacific Terminals’ businesses overlap in the area of storage
of tallow and vegetable oils in Brisbane and Tasmania.
TIMING
20.
The following table outlines the timeline of key events in this matter.
Date
Event
12-Jan-2007
05-Feb-2007
13-Feb-2007
20-Feb-2007
07-Mar-2007
ACCC commenced review under the Merger Review Process Guidelines.
Market inquiries commenced.
Closing date for submissions from initial round of market inquiries
ACCC published Statement of Issues
Closing date for submissions in response to Statement of Issues
Announcement of ACCC's findings
MARKET INQUIRIES
21.
The ACCC conducted market inquiries with a range of industry participants,
including competitors, potential competitors, customers, industry bodies, port
authorities and other interested parties. Submissions were sought in relation to the
substantive competition issues raised by this proposed transaction.
STATEMENT OF ISSUES
22.
The ACCC published a Statement of Issues on 13 February 2007 identifying a
number of competition issues. In the Statement of Issues the ACCC identified the
following issues of concern:

barriers to entry into the market for the supply of bulk tallow and
vegetable oil storage in Brisbane;

availability of substitutes in Brisbane for bulk tallow and vegetable oil
storage services;

the feasibility of transporting tallow and/or vegetable oils to and from
other ports; and

vertical integration issues.


Pacific Terminals (Australia) Pty Ltd - proposed acquisition of
bulk liquid terminals from Craig Mostyn & Co Pty Ltd
-5-
23.
The Statement of Issues was published following significant competition
concerns being raised by a number of market participants. These concerns centred
on the reduction in the number of competitors providing storage with access to
shipping for tallow and vegetable oil in Brisbane from two to one, particularly
given the relationship between Pacific Terminals and Gardner Smith.
WITH/WITHOUT TEST (COUNTERFACTUAL)
24.
In assessing a merger pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC must consider
the effects of the transaction by comparing the likely competitive environment
post-merger if the transaction proceeds (the “with” position) to the likely
competitive environment post-merger if the transaction does not proceed (the
counterfactual or “without” position).
Burnie
25.
The ACCC concluded that the acquisition of Craig Mostyn’s terminals at Burnie
was unlikely to raise concerns given that Craig Mostyn’s lease from the
Tasmanian Port Authority has ended; that is, even without the transaction, Craig
Mostyn would have ceased to be a competitor in Burnie. Market inquiries
confirmed that the Port Authority intends to begin redeveloping the land for
another purpose shortly. As Craig Mostyn could no longer compete with Pacific
Terminals regardless of the transaction, the ACCC formed the view that the
acquisition of the terminals at Burnie was unlikely to lead to a substantial
lessening of competition.
Brisbane
26.
Craig Mostyn currently leases the land at the Port of Brisbane from Patrick
Stevedores Operations No 2 Pty Ltd which in turn leases it from the Port of
Brisbane Corporation. While there appeared to be some uncertainty surrounding
the tenure of Craig Mostyn’s lease at the Port of Brisbane and the enforceability
and transferability of an option term, inquiries with the relevant parties led the
ACCC to form the view that the appropriate counterfactual is that Craig Mostyn’s
lease will expire in October 2009. Demolition work which will render the site
inoperative is likely to begin in early 2009. Therefore, the most likely
competitive environment without the merger is that, from early 2009, the
terminals currently owned by Craig Mostyn will not be available as a source of
competition to Pacific Terminals.
MARKET DEFINITION
Market 1 - Tallow and vegetable oil storage
Product dimension
27.
Craig Mostyn’s and Pacific Terminals’ Brisbane terminals are used as storage in
the process of exporting and importing bulk shipments of tallow and vegetable
oils out of and into the port.


Pacific Terminals (Australia) Pty Ltd - proposed acquisition of
bulk liquid terminals from Craig Mostyn & Co Pty Ltd
-6-
28.
Some market participants asserted that the relevant product market should be
more broadly defined than bulk tallow and vegetable oil storage, to incorporate
storage for other types liquids. Central to the ACCC’s definition of the relevant
product market was the specialised storage conditions required for some liquids
including tallow and vegetable oils. Tallow and vegetable oils require heating and
constant temperature regulation to ensure the products do not solidify or degrade.
Important design characteristics of tallow and vegetable oil storage tanks include
agitation, top loading capability, a sloping floor, and ensuring the tanks are
suitably coated and free of contaminants.
29.
Similarly, storage for combustible and toxic liquids must comply with a large
number of safety regulations which differ to those required for tallow and
vegetable oil storage.
30.
Given the specific storage requirements for tallows and vegetable oils, the ACCC
formed the view that there is limited demand and supply side substitutability
between bulk storage designed for tallow and vegetable oils and bulk storage
designed for other types of liquids.
31.
Differences in the regulatory requirements, design specifications and operation of
the storage tanks for various products results in differences in the cost of
establishing such facilities and the prices charged to customers. Consistent with
this, market inquiries indicated that operators of terminals designed for hazardous
products preferred, where possible, to store hazardous products in their terminals
as they are able to charge higher fees for storing these products. Tallow was also
viewed as an undesirable product to store in facilities which are not purpose built
for tallow, due to its propensity to partially solidify and leave thick deposits in the
tanks, pipelines and pumps.
Geographic dimension
32.
On the basis of information provided by market participants, the ACCC formed
the view that the bulk transport of these products to and from alternative ports is
not a competitive substitute for storage at the Port of Brisbane. With the
exception of a few users situated in between two ports, transport costs appear to
be too high to make transporting bulk product to other ports for storage a
competitive option. The geographic scope of the relevant market was therefore
limited to Brisbane. Further details about the substitutability of storage located at
other ports can be found at paragraph 46 below.
Functional dimension
33.
The proposed acquisition is occurring at the storage level of the tallow and
vegetable oil supply chain. However, it also has implications for the wholesale
trading of these products as Pacific Terminals is a related entity of Gardner Smith
– a tallow and vegetable oil trader which utilises Pacific Terminals’ storage.
34.
Market inquiries indicated a general concern that the proposed acquisition would
give Gardner Smith advantages over rival traders in the storage of its products.
The ACCC therefore considered the implications of the merger at both the
storage and wholesale trading level of the tallow and vegetable oil markets.


Pacific Terminals (Australia) Pty Ltd - proposed acquisition of
bulk liquid terminals from Craig Mostyn & Co Pty Ltd
-7-
Market 2 - Wholesale tallow and vegetable oil market
35.
The ACCC also examined the effects of the proposed acquisition on the
wholesale tallow and vegetable oil markets given the possible vertical integration
issues raised by the tallow and vegetable oil trading operations of Gardner Smith
- a related entity of Pacific Terminals.
Product Market
36.
Tallow is sold on a wholesale basis in Queensland by tallow refiners, traders and
wholesalers (collectively referred to here as tallow dealers). Bulk storage
terminals at ports are used to consolidate product, which is produced on a
continuous basis by refiners, prior to export. Queensland is a net exporter of
tallow; no imports are usually received at the Port of Brisbane.
37.
Most vegetable oil consumed by bulk users in Queensland is imported, and some
is transported from interstate. Vegetable oils may be imported by vegetable oil
refiners, traders and wholesalers (collectively referred to here as vegetable oil
dealers). Once imported, the vegetable oils are stored in bulk liquid terminals at
ports, from where the oils are distributed. Tallow and vegetable oils may be
resold by various dealers a number of times prior to export or use.
Geographic Market
38.
Market inquiries indicated that tallow and vegetable oils are bulky, relatively low
value products and that it is generally not viable to transport large volumes of
these products over long distances. Therefore, most tallow is produced, traded
and stored within a reasonably close proximity and in most cases within the same
state.
39.
Market participants indicated that Queensland producers of tallow sell mainly to
wholesalers who trade within Queensland, or near the border of Queensland and
New South Wales. These traders tend to utilise storage facilities close to where
the tallow is produced. Similarly, the majority of vegetable oil imported by
traders is sold to users located within Queensland, though a small amount may be
transported by road into NSW. In the case of storage for tallow and vegetable oil
for export or import (which amounts to a substantial proportion of the tallow
traded at a wholesale level in Queensland, and all the vegetable oil), storage
facilities at the closest port are usually used.
Conclusion on Market Definition
40.
The ACCC considered that the relevant markets in this matter were:
a Brisbane market for storage, with access to shipping, for tallow
and vegetable oils; and
tallow and vegetable oil wholesale markets which appear to operate
within Queensland.


Pacific Terminals (Australia) Pty Ltd - proposed acquisition of
bulk liquid terminals from Craig Mostyn & Co Pty Ltd
-8-
COMPETITION ANALYSIS
Market 1 - Tallow and vegetable oil storage
Market Concentration
41.
Craig Mostyn’s terminal at Hamilton and Pacific Terminals’ terminal at Pinkenba
supply all of the tallow and vegetable oil storage regularly available in the Port of
Brisbane.
Availability of Substitutes
42.
The ACCC considered the substitutability of other types of bulk liquid storage,
but market inquiries indicated that it is unlikely that current providers of storage
for other liquids such as hazardous products would be able to quickly enter the
market for tallow and vegetable oil storage on a short term basis in the event of a
price increase. Short-term substitutability is limited by government and
international trading organisation regulations regarding such things as the storage
of food grade products, and the cost of cleaning tanks. Further, the return on
storage of hazardous liquids appears to comfortably exceed the return on tallow
and vegetable oil storage.
43.
The ACCC also considered the possibility of substituting non-waterfront storage
for waterfront terminals. Mixed responses were received from market participants
about the possibility of using terminals located within a few kilometres of the
waterfront and pumping the product via a pipeline to and from the waterfront. On
the basis of information obtained from the market, the ACCC formed the view
that while it is optimal to locate terminals on the waterfront, it is possible to use
pipelines to locate storage facilities up to a few kilometres inland, provided the
necessary easements are available to run the pipelines to the waterfront.
44.
The possibility of transporting products by road between inland storage terminals
and the waterfront was raised by some stakeholders as an alternative to waterfront
storage. However, the availability of suitable road tankers, considerably slower
discharge speeds and demurrage costs led the ACCC to conclude that this was not
feasible for large volumes of products.
45.
In Australia, the majority of fats and oils are stored and exported or imported in
bulk. A small proportion of tallow and vegetable oils are shipped in drums, ISO
tanks and flexi-packs, usually because the destination has limited bulk liquid
storage. Market inquiries clearly indicated that the level of availability of these
storage media, their cost and the associated maintenance, manual handling and
other logistical issues combine to make these options considerably less
economical than bulk storage and generally not feasible for most customers and
suppliers. The ACCC did not consider these alterative forms of storage as
substitutes for bulk storage, particularly for large volumes of products.
46.
The ACCC also considered the possibility of storage at alternative ports on the
east coast of Australia acting as a competitive constraint against Pacific
Terminals post-acquisition. Market inquiries indicated, however, that it was


Pacific Terminals (Australia) Pty Ltd - proposed acquisition of
bulk liquid terminals from Craig Mostyn & Co Pty Ltd
-9-
neither cost effective nor logistically possible to transport the volume of product
normally exported and imported over such long distances. The ACCC therefore
concluded that storage at other ports would not provide an effective constraint
post-acquisition. This view was confirmed by operators of bulk liquid storage
facilities at several of those ports, who said that they did not consider themselves
to be competitors of the Brisbane storage providers.
47.
In conclusion, the ability to use pipelines to connect non-waterfront land to berths
means that storage facilities on some land within close proximity of the
waterfront may be substitutable for waterfront storage, provided that necessary
easements can be obtained. However, market inquiries indicated that storage for
other types of liquids is not substitutable for tallow and vegetable oil storage,
either in the long or short term. Similarly, non-bulk storage does not appear to be
a viable substitute.
Barriers to Entry and Expansion
48.
The availability of suitable land for new entrants in Brisbane was a key issue
raised by market participants. As discussed above, non-bulk storage is not
substitutable for bulk storage, and transportation to other ports does not appear to
be viable for anything other than small loads. The ability to use pipelines to
provide access between inland terminals and ships increases the area of land on
which new terminals could potentially be built.
49.
Stakeholders differed in their views on the likelihood of suitable land becoming
available at the Port of Brisbane. Some owners of land at the Port of Brisbane
indicated that they had underutilised land, and would consider offers from
potential tenants or buyers, including bulk liquid storage providers. Market
inquiries indicated a number of players willing to enter if they are able to obtain
suitable land. At least one potential entrant also appeared confident that it would
be able to secure land for a bulk liquid terminal in the near future. On balance, the
ACCC formed the view that it was more likely than not that suitable land would
become available at the Port of Brisbane in the near future.
50.
Capital costs and satisfying regulatory approval processes were raised as the
other impediments to new entry. The ACCC concluded that capital costs alone
would not deter new entry by a willing competitor, and entry may well be
profitable even at existing prices given the high level of demand for storage in
Brisbane.
51.
There are a number of variables governing new entry into the provision of tallow
and vegetable oil storage with access to shipping, including capital costs,
environmental and safety regulations, and the availability of suitable land.
Following market inquiries, the ACCC formed the view that it appears unlikely
that the process of establishing a new bulk liquid storage terminal would take
longer than one year once suitable land has been found.
Dynamic characteristics of the market
52.
The ACCC examined the potential effects of developments in the biodiesel
industry on demand for tallow and oils storage. It was suggested by some market


Pacific Terminals (Australia) Pty Ltd - proposed acquisition of
bulk liquid terminals from Craig Mostyn & Co Pty Ltd
-10-
participants that if tallow can be used successfully in biodiesel production, the
resulting increase in domestic demand for tallow for biodiesel production would
lead to a decrease in demand for export storage, especially since tallow is a by-
product whose production is not directly influenced by its demand. The
possibility of a reduction in storage demand could potentially act as a deterrent to
a new entrant in the storage market.
53.
However, despite some signs of potential for an increase in the use of tallow as a
feedstock for biodiesel production, market participants did not generally consider
this to be an imminent or certain development. Further, market participants
indicated that there is a general undersupply of bulk storage for both hazardous
and non-hazardous liquids throughout Australia and that there would continue to
be sustained demand for export storage facilities in the future.
Removal of a vigorous and effective competitor
54.
Market inquiries differed on the extent to which Craig Mostyn currently
constrains Pacific Terminals in the market for storage, with access to shipping,
for tallow and vegetable oils in Brisbane. The ACCC concluded that even if Craig
Mostyn is considered to compete effectively with Pacific Terminals at present
(and it is noted that several market participants raised reasons why this may not
be the case), this would cease to be the case once its lease at Hamilton expires. As
discussed, inquiries indicated that the terminal was likely to cease operations
within the next two years.
Market 2 - Tallow and vegetable oil wholesale
Market concentration
55.
Gardner Smith is a large supplier of tallow and vegetable oils. Gardner Smith
focuses on the aggregation and supply of tallow, vegetable oils, and their
derivatives, servicing producers and customers within the traditional food,
personal care, chemical and livestock feed industries both in Australia and
overseas. There are several other wholesale suppliers of these products active in
Queensland including Kerry Australia and Colyer Fehr.
Vertical integration issues
56.
Pacific Terminals provides storage in Brisbane to Gardner Smith as well as other
traders of bulk liquids. The ACCC considered the potential for vertical
foreclosure to arise post-acquisition as a result of Pacific Terminals’ relationship
with Gardner Smith. Concerns were expressed by market participants that, post-
acquisition, Pacific Terminals may have an incentive to restrict the amount of
storage provided to Gardner Smith’s competitors.
57.
The ACCC formed the view that the vertical relationship between Pacific
Terminals and Gardner Smith was unlikely to result in a substantial lessening of
competition in any relevant market while Pacific Terminals is constrained by
actual or potential competitors in the storage market.


Pacific Terminals (Australia) Pty Ltd - proposed acquisition of
bulk liquid terminals from Craig Mostyn & Co Pty Ltd
-11-
58.
The existence of other competitors in the wholesale markets for tallow and
vegetable oil in Queensland and the threat of new entrants to the storage market,
led the ACCC to conclude that such foreclosure was not likely to occur.
59.
The ACCC formed the view that given the high demand for bulk liquid storage in
Brisbane, the threat of new entry is likely to be real and an attractive opportunity
in the event that Pacific Terminals seeks to raise prices or decrease service levels.
Market inquiries indicated that this threat may currently be constraining Pacific
Terminals to some degree.
60.
The ACCC formed the view that barriers to new entry in the market for storage of
tallow and vegetable oils in Brisbane were surmountable, and that the threat of
new entry in this market was likely to constrain Pacific Terminals’ behaviour
post-acquisition.
Conclusion
61.
On the basis of the above analysis the ACCC formed the view that Pacific
Terminals’ proposed acquisition of bulk liquid terminals from Craig Mostyn
would not be likely to result in a substantial lessening of competition in any
relevant market in contravention of section 50 of the Act both in the storage
market and in downstream wholesale markets.
