Australian 
Competition & 
Consumer 
Commission 
13 February 2007 
Statement of Issues - 
Pacific Terminals (Australia) 
Pty Ltd - proposed acquisition of bulk liquid terminals 
from Craig Mostyn & Co Pty Ltd 
1. 
Outlined below is the Statement of Issues released by the Australian Competition 
and Consumer Commission (ACCC) in relation to the proposed acquisition of 
Craig Mostyn &Co Pty Ltd by Pacific Terminals (Australia) Pty Ltd (the 
proposed acquisition). 
2. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC's preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well 
as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
3. 
In line with the ACCC's Merger Review Process Guidelines (available on the 
ACCC's website at www.accc.gov.au) the ACCC has established a secondary 
timeline for further consideration of the issues. The ACCC anticipates expediting 
further market inquiries with a view to completing them by 20 February 2007 and 
making a final decision by 7 March 2007. Key market participants will be 
contacted directly during this time. However, the anticipated timeline can change 
in line with the Merger Review Process Guidelines. To keep abreast of possible 
changes in relation to timing and to find relevant documents, market participants 
should visit the Mergers Register on the ACCC's website at 
www.accc. aov. au/mergersreg;ister. 
4. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 
Background 
5. 
Pacific Terminals (Australia) Pty Ltd (Pacific) proposed to acquire the tallow and 
vegetable oil storage terminals owned by Craig Mostyn & Co Ltd Pty (Craig 
Mostyn) in the ports of Burnie and Brisbane. On 9 January 2007 Pacific 
Terminals (Australia) Pty Ltd provided a submission in response to an ACCC 


Pacific Terminals (Australia) Pty Ltd - proposed acquisition 
of bulk liquid terminals from Craig Mostyn & Co Pty Ltd 
request for further information regarding the proposed transaction. Craig Mostyn 
provided a submission on 22 January 2007. 
The Parties 
Pacific Terminals (Australia) Pty Ltd 
6. 
Pacific owns and operates a number of bulk liquid storage sites, including sites at 
Pinkenba (Port of Brisbane) and in Devonport and Bell Bay (Tasmania). At these 
sites, Pacific provides storage for a variety of hazardous and non-hazardous 
liquids including tallow, vegetable oils, chemicals and fuels. Pacific also provides 
associated services at these terminals such as tanker washing, drumming, fats and 
oils bleaching, and a weighbridge. Pacific is a subsidiary of the Gardner Smith 
Group (Gardner), a major trader in tallows and vegetable oils. Pacific provides 
storage to Gardner as well as other traders in bulk liquids. 
Craig Mostyn &Co Pty Ltd 
7. 
The Craig Mostyn Group (CMC) is a diversified food, agribusiness and logistics 
company servicing customers and suppliers in over 60 countries around the 
world. CMC owns and operates a number of bulk liquid storage sites, including 
at Burnie (Tasmania) and Hamilton (Port of Brisbane). At these sites CMC 
provides storage to outside parties for a variety of non-hazardous bulk liquids 
such as tallow, vegetable oils, fish oils and molasses. 
Market Background 
8. 
This proposed acquisition takes place in the context of the tallow and vegetable 
oil storage industry. Tallow and vegetable oil traders store their products at 
terminals. These terminals normally consist of a number of large tanks located on 
the waterfront in a port to facilitate the rapid loading and unloading of ships. 
9. 
There are 200 000 to 250 000 tonnes of tallow exported from Brisbane each year. 
The ACCC understand that in non-drought years large quantities of vegetable oils 
are also exported from Brisbane. Vegetable oils are imported where insufficient 
quantities of oil are produced in Queensland, due to either drought or lack of 
resources (i.e. palm and coconut oils). Tallow and each of the vegetable oils have 
several different grades and generally each type of oil is stored separately 
according to grade. 
10. Tallow and many vegetable oils solidify if they fall below a certain temperature - 
typically this temperature is around 25OC, although this varies depending on the 
type of oil, with some oils needing to be heated to 60 OC to prevent solidification. 
Storage and transport tanks are heated to prevent solidification and increase 
stability of the product. However, excessive heating will also degrade the 
product. Therefore the temperature must be constantly and carefully regulated. 
Tallow and vegetable oils can be difficult to store and transport due to problems 
with solidification and stability. 
1 1. The major edible oil and fat traders active in Australia are Kerry Australia, 
Colyer Fehr and Gardner. The ConAgra Trade Group and Nippon Meat Packers 


Pacific Terminals (Australia) Pty Ltd - proposed acquisition 
of bulk liquid terminals from Craig Mostyn & Co Pty Ltd 
also deal in tallow and Goodman Fielder in vegetable oils. Major producers of 
tallow include Teys Bros, AJ Bush & Sons, Nippon Meat Packers and Australian 
Meat Holdings. 
12. 
The following table lists the major edible oil and fat storage providers in 
Australia and their locations: 
Market inquiries 
Storage Providers 
Pacific Terminals 
Craig Mostyn 
Terminals Pty Ltd 
Marstel Terminals 
Vopak Terminals 
Cargill Australia 
13. On 18 January 2007 the ACCC commenced market inquiries regarding the 
proposed acquisition. A market inquiries letter was also posted on the ACCC 
website seeking comments. Market inquiries have been conduct amongst a range 
of interested parties including current and potential competitors of the merger 
parties, current and potential customers of the merger parties, major terminal 
storage suppliers and the port authorities in Tasmania and Queensland. 
Locations 
Pinkenba, Qld 
Coode Island, Vic 
North Laverton, Vic 
Bell Bay, Tas 
Devenport, Tas 
Largs Bay, SA 
North Frernantle, WA 
Hamilton, Qld 
Burnie, Tas 
Sydney, NSW 
Geelong, NSW 
Melbourne, VIC 
Adelaide, SA 
Coode Island, Vic 
Sydney, NSW 
Newcastle, NSW 


Pacific Terminals (Australia) Pty Ltd - proposed acquisition 
of bulk liquid terminals from Craig Mostyn & Co Pty Ltd 
Statement of issues 
14. 
Statements of Issues are commonly divided into three categories: 'issues of 
concern', 'issues that may raise concerns' and 'issues unlikely to raise concerns'. 
In this matter, the ACCC has not formed a preliminary view that any of the 
following fall into the second category, 'issues that may raise concerns', so in this 
case the issues are divided into 'issues of concern' and 'issues unlikely to raise 
concerns'. 
15. 
The ACCC would welcome further information about the "issues of concern". 
Comments are sought on the "issues unlikely to pose concerns" only if you 
believe the information on which the ACCC has based its view is inaccurate. The 
ACCC is interested in information about the feasibility of various alternatives to 
using the tallow and vegetable oil storage provided by the merger parties and the 
extent to which these alternatives will prevent the merged firm from being able to 
profitably increase prices or decrease services to storage users. The ACCC is 
also interested in any impact on competition from the transaction due to vertical 
integration, given that Pacific's parent company, Gardner Smith (Holdings) Pty 
Limited (Gardner), is also active at the wholesale trading level. 
Issues of concern 
A. 
Availabilitv of substitutes in Brisbane for bulk tallow and vegetable oil 
storage sewices 
16. 
It has been suggested that there are a variety of substitutes available in Brisbane 
for customers of bulk tallow and vegetable oil storage. These substitutes include: 
-the use of empty hazardous liquid storage terminals such as Mobil's 
terminal in Brisbane; 
-the use of storage facilities on customers' own premises; or 
-storage in drums, IS0 tanks and flexi-packs loaded into containers. 
17. 
Some customers have indicated that none of the above are viable alternatives and 
that customers have no viable storage options for tallow and vegetable oils other 
than Pacific and CMC. 
Ability to substitute other types of bulk liquid storage facilities for bulk tallow and 
vegetable oil storage facilities 
18. 
It has been put to the ACCC that the differences between tanks designed for 
tallow and edible oil storage versus tanks designed for storage of various 
hazardous liquids mean that the hazardous liquid tanks are unsuitable as long- 
term storage of tallow and vegetable oils for reasons relating to physical design 
and cost efficiencies. 


Pacific Terminals (Australia) Pty Ltd - proposed acquisition 
of bulk liquid terminals from Craig Mostyn & Co Pty Ltd 
19. These differences include requirements for different infrastructure in areas such 
as: fire fighting equipment, spill containment systems, bunding1, heating systems, 
venting systems, tank sizes and numbers, operating processes and levels of 
automation. 
The ACCC is seeking the following information: 
the availability in Brisbane of tanks designed to store bulk 
hazardous liquids which could be converted to tallow and 
vegetable oil storage, including comparisons between the 
costs to customers of using these facilities versus the costs 
of using CMC's or Pacific's facilities; 
details of the differences between tanks designed to store 
hazardous liquids and tanks designed to store tallow and 
vegetable oils; 
information on whether it is possible to store tallow and 
vegetable oils in unconverted hazardous liquid tanks in 
the short-term, including details of any costs involved; and 
details of the cost, time required and feasibility of 
converting hazardous liquid tanks to tallow and vegetable 
oil storage in the long term and vice versa. 
Ability to substitute non-waterfront storage terminals (including storage facilities 
on customers' premises) for waterfront storage terminals 
20. 
Some market participants have indicated that building bulk liquid storage 
facilities for tallow and vegetable oils on customers' premises or away from the 
waterfront are not acceptable substitutes for waterfront terminals. It has been 
suggested that storage at a distance from the waterfront would significantly 
increase the costs to storage customers by raising both transportation and ship 
loading costs. 
21. 
The merger parties have suggested that customers could load ships using trucks to 
transport product from non-waterfront facilities to ships. Market inquiries 
confirmed that this practice is sometimes used in the tallow and vegetable oil 
industry, although generally only for relatively small loads. It appears that the 
practice may raise costs significantly for bulk loads. 
22. 
In Brisbane, traders in exported fats and oils normally consolidate product in 
waterfront terminals over a period of time using a slow but steady flow of trucks. 
As the terminals are on the waterfkont, it is relatively easy to load the product into 
the tanks of bulk ships using pipelines from the terminals. It has been suggested 
' Bunding is a barrier impermeable to liquid, normally a sealed earth bank, designed to contain liquid 
spills. 


Pacific Terminals (Australia) Pty Ltd - proposed acquisition 
of bulk liquid terminals from Craig Mostyn & Co Pty Ltd 
that this is significantly more efficient than using relatively larger fleets of trucks 
over shorter periods to load ships from non-waterfront storage facilities. 
Pipelines also load ships significantly faster than is possible from trucks, reducing 
the length of time a ship must spend berthed, which is important given that 
mooring costs are high. 
Similarly, it has been suggested that it is more efficient and faster to offload 
imported oils and fats from ships into waterfront terminals via pipelines, and then 
use trucks to transport the oils and fats as needed. 
The ACCC is seeking the following information: 
the difference in costs between using trucks to load ships 
directly versus transporting the product to storage 
terminals and then loading ships via pipelines (and vice 
versa for imports). If relevant, include the costs of buying 
and maintaining an IS0 tanker or, alternatively, hiring 
costs. 
whether the practice of loading tallow and vegetable oils 
into ships directly from trucks is common in Brisbane; 
the size of a typical shipment of tallow or vegetable oil to 
or from Brisbane; 
how much vegetable oil or tallow a ship can load tolfrom 
IS0 tankers per hour compared to the amount that can be 
loaded tolfrom Craig Mostyn's terminal; and 
details of the costs associated with loading a ship, 
including hourly or daily costs. 
Ability to substitute storage in drums, IS0 tanks and flexi-packs loaded into 
containers for storage in terminal tanks 
24. 
It has been suggested that drums, IS0 tanks and flexi packs are viable alternatives 
to using the merger parties' storage tanks. Many traders export tallows and 
vegetable oils in drums or IS0 tanks at the customer's request. Packing tallow 
and vegetable oils in drums is a service offered by the storage terminals and is 
generally carried out there prior to shipping. It appears that most drummed 
tallow and vegetable oil is sent to China. 
25. 
However, it has been suggested that this alternative is generally only used in 
situations in which the overseas customer faces a lack of port infrastructure or 
inadequate handling facilities at their own premises. Market inquiries indicated 
that the majority of export customers demand that tallow and vegetable oil arrive 


Pacific Terminals (Australia) Pty Ltd - proposed acquisition 
of bulk liquid terminals from Craig Mostyn & Co Pty Ltd 
in bulk as this is easier and more efficient for them to unload using pipelines from 
ships. Therefore, tallow and vegetable oils must be consolidated prior to export. 
26. 
It appears that there may be a minimum efficient size for receptacles intended to 
provide long-term storage and consolidation of tallows and oils. It has been 
suggested that there are significant difficulties and costs in maintaining drums, 
IS0 tanks or flexi-packs in the large quantities necessary to fbnction as a storage 
facility. These difficulties include the correct venting of gases that may be 
produced, fulfilling heating requirements, and handling problems. 
The ACCC is seeking the following information: 
details of disadvantages and advantages associated with 
storing substantial amounts of tallow or vegetable oils in 
drums, IS0 tanks or flexi-packs compared to terminals, 
including estimated cost differences; and 
the proportion of tallow and vegetable oils shipped in bulk 
compared to in drums or IS0 tanks. 
B. 
The feasibilitv of transporting tallow and/or vegetable oils to and from 
other ports 
27. 
It has been suggested that tallow and vegetable oil storage facilities in Brisbane 
compete with storage facilities along the east coast, from Rockhampton (Port 
Alma) to Sydney, including facilities in the ports of Gladstone, Bundaberg and 
Newcastle. The merger parties have suggested that it is relatively easy to store 
imported liquids in these ports and then transport the liquids to Brisbane using 
trucks, or vice versa for exports. 
Viability of transporting tallows and vegetable oils to and from alternative ports 
28. 
Some discrepancies have arisen between different market participants regarding 
the cost of transporting tallows and vegetable oils. Market inquiries indicated 
that tallows and vegetable oils were sometimes transported between port cities 
using IS0 tanks on trucks or even drums. However, market inquiries have also 
suggested that this is done to serve small customers such as takeaway shops and it 
is an irregular event. 
29. 
Some market participants suggested that transporting tallow and vegetable oil to 
or fiom another city would be prohibitively expensive due to transport costs, 
which are high for these products due to the need to heat the product during 
transportation in order to ensure that it does not solidify 


Pacific Terminals (Australia) Pty Ltd - proposed acquisition 
of bulk liquid terminals from Craig Mostyn & Co Pty Ltd 
The ACCC is seeking the following information: 
the cost of transporting tallow and vegetable oils from 
Brisbane to Sydney, Newcastle, Gladstone and Bundaberg 
or Port Alma by road; 
the typical cost (per tonne) of purchasing (i) tallow and (ii) 
vegetable oil for export from manufacturers in Queensland, 
for the most common grades; 
details of the typical landed cost (per tonne) of vegetable oil 
imported through the Port of Brisbane, for the most 
common grades; 
details of the typical sales prices to wholesale customers for 
tallow and vegetable oils, for the most common grades; and 
an estimate of the relative proportion of the major 
gradesltypes of oils and tallow sold. 
Substitutability of alternative ports 
30. Market inquiries indicated that the ports of Gladstone and Bundaberg do not 
appear to have tallow storage facilities. The Port of Bundaberg does have 
molasses storage facilities. However, it has been suggested that the port, with a 
maximum draft of 1 Om, is unsuitable for large ships of the type used to service 
the tallow and vegetable oil traders in the Port of Brisbane. 
3 1. 
It has also been suggested that the tallow and vegetable oil storage tanks at Port 
Alma (Rockhampton) may not currently be suitable for tallow and vegetable oil 
storage. In any case, it does not appear that these tanks provide hosting services. 
32. 
It has also been suggested that the ports with suitable facilities (Sydney and 
Newcastle) do not have the storage capacity to handle significant increases in the 
quantities of vegetable oils and tallows dealt with. 


Pacific Terminals (Australia) Pty Ltd - proposed acquisition 
of bulk liquid terminals from Craig Mostyn & Co Pty Ltd 
The ACCC is seeking the following information: 
details of any storage capacity constraints in Sydney, 
Newcastle, Gladstone and Bundaberg and Port Alma that 
may affect the storage of tallow and vegetable oils, and how 
readily these could be overcome (e.g. by adding additional 
storage tanks); 
the suitability of storage facilities in the ports of Gladstone 
and Bundaberg and Port Alma for the storage of tallow and 
vegetable oils; and 
whether the owners of storage facilities in the ports of 
Gladstone and Bundaberg and Port Alma would be willing 
to provide hosting services to other users. 
C. 
Barriers to entry into the market for the s u ~ ~ l y  
of bulk tallow and 
vegetable oil storage in Brisbane 
Land 
33. 
The difficulty of acquiring suitable land for building appears to be a major 
impediment to new entry into bulk tallow and vegetable oil storage in the Port of 
Brisbane. According to some market participants there appears to be a shortage 
of land in the Port of Brisbane and a complete lack of waterfiont land available. 
34. Other participants have suggested that waterfiont land on Fisherman's Island is 
available and suitable for establishing a bulk liquid storage facility including 
tallow and vegetable oil storage. 
35. 
It has also been suggested that land may become available that is not on the 
waterfront but is close enough that a pipeline could be used to load and unload 
ships. The pipeline would need to run over land whose leases are owned by 
others. 
The ACCC is seeking the following information: 
whether there is, or will be in the immediate future, land 
available in the Port of Brisbane which could be used to 
build vegetable oil and tallow storage; 
whether this land is suMiciently close to the water that a 
pipeline can be used to load and unload ships or whether 
it would be necessary to use another method; and 
the ease or difficulty of constructing and maintaining a 
pipeline from non-waterfront land to the waterfront. 


Pacific Terminals (Australia) Pty Ltd - proposed acquisition 
of bulk liquid terminals from Craig Mostyn & Co Pty Ltd 
Costs 
36. 
Market participants have suggested that a general purpose 1 000rn3 tank and 
associated infrastructure would cost between $1.4 million and $2 million, while a 
terminal is likely to cost between $15 million and $20 million. The cost of a 
terminal is dependent upon the number and size of tanks as well as the product to 
be stored. 
The ACCC is seeking the following information: 
details of the costs associated with building a tallow and 
vegetable oil storage terminal, including costs associated 
with complying with government regulations. 
Other Impediments 
37. 
Other impediments to entry include the time it takes to comply with various 
government approvals processes required in order to build a bulk liquid storage 
terminal. It has been suggested that the minimum time required to gain the 
necessary approvals and finish building is around two years. 
The ACCC is seeking the following information: 
details of impediments to building a tallow and vegetable 
oil storage terminal in Brisbane, other than lack of land 
and the cost. Please estimate the minimum time needed 
to fulfil all requirements. 
D. 
Vertical Integration Issues 
38. 
Pacific is a subsidiary of Gardner Smith, a major tallow and vegetable oils trader. 
Market inquiries have raised concerns regarding the fact that the merger may give 
Gardner a dominant position in tallow trading in Queensland. 
39. 
It has been suggested that vegetable oil and tallow traders are dependent upon 
storage in Brisbane for their viability, and if Pacific becomes the sole source of 
suitable vegetable oil and tallow storage in Brisbane, then incentives may exist 
for it to increase its prices andor decrease its service levels to the disadvantage of 
competitors of Gardner. 
40. 
It has been suggested that this may render other traders uncompetitive with 
Gardner in the short term and drive them out of the market in the longer term, 
lessening competition amongst tallow and vegetable oil traders. If Gardener has 
control of storage, any new entrant at the trading level would have to enter both 
the trading and storage functional levels at once. 


Pacific Terminals (Australia) Pty Ltd - proposed acquisition 
of bulk liquid terminals fiom Craig Mostyn & Co Pty Ltd 
41. 
Alternatively, it has been suggested that the substitutes that customers have 
available (discussed above under headings A - C) instead of storage provided by 
Pacific or CMC in the Port of Brisbane will ensure that Pacific will not have the 
market power necessary to act in this way. 
The ACCC is seeking the following information: 
details of use of Pacific's hosting services by competitors 
of Gardner; 
whether manufacturers of tallow could supply the 
biodiesel industry directly, without using traders or 
storage in Brisbane; 
whether Queensland manufacturers of tallow and 
vegetable oils normally sell only to Queensland-based 
buyers; 
whether Queensland users of tallow and vegetable oils 
normally purchase product in Queensland or import it; 
and 
whether there is interstate competition in the wholesale 
market for tallow and vegetable oils. 
Conclusion 
42. 
The ACCC is concerned that in the event that there are no substitutes for similar 
storage facilities in Brisbane, costs and logistical issues exist which make it 
unviable for tallow and vegetable oils to be transported from other ports, 
significant barriers to entry exist such that there are no likely new entrants to the 
relevant markets, incentives may exist for Pacific Terminals to raise its prices or 
decrease its service levels to the disadvantage of Gardner's competitors. 
43. 
The ACCC seeks further information and evidence from interested parties on the 
likelihood of this situation occurring post-acquisition. The ACCC notes that the 
resolution of each of the above issues is not independent of each of the others, 
and the satisfactory resolution of some of the above issues may lead to a 
conclusion that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to result in a substantial 
lessening of competition in any relevant market. 
Issues unlikely to pose concerns 
E. 
Pacific Terminals' proposed acquisition of Craig Mostvn's facilitv in Burnie, 
Tasmania 
44. 
This part of the transaction is unlikely to raise concerns given that, regardless of 
the proposed transaction, CMC's lease from the Tasmanian Port Authority has 


Pacific Terminals (Australia) Pty Ltd - proposed acquisition 
of bulk liquid terminals from Craig Mostyn & Co Pty Ltd 
ended; that is, even without the transaction, CMC would have ceased to be a 
competitor in Burnie. Market inquiries confirmed that the Port Authority 
intends to begin redeveloping the land shortly. As CMC could no longer 
compete with Pacific regardless of the transaction, the acquisition is unlikely to 
lead to a substantial lessening of competition. 
ACCC's future steps 
45. 
The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers market responses 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
46. 
The ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on each of the issues 
identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that may be relevant 
to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. 
47. 
Submissions are to be received by the ACCC no later than 20 February 2007. The 
ACCC will consider the submissions received fiom the market and the merger 
parties in light of the issues identified above and will, in conjunction with 
information and submissions already provided by the parties, come to a final 
view as to the appropriate course of action to take to resolve any competition 
concerns that remain. 
48. 
The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 7 March 2007. 
However, the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Merger Review 
Process Guidelines. A public Competition Assessment for the purpose of 
explaining the ACCC's final view will be published following the ACCC's public 
announcement. 
