  
Page 1 of 15 
 
Statement of Issues 
23 February 2017 
 South32 – proposed acquisition of Metropolitan 
Purpose 
1. 
South32 Limited (South32) proposes to acquire Metropolitan Collieries Pty Ltd 
(Metropolitan), an Australian subsidiary of Peabody Energy Corporation 
(Peabody). Metropolitan owns the Metropolitan mine and an associated 
16.67 per cent interest in Port Kembla Coal Terminal Limited. Both South32 and 
Metropolitan supply metallurgical coal (also known as coking coal) from the 
Illawarra region to Australian customers.  
2. 
This Statement of Issues: 
 
gives the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission’s (ACCC’s) 
preliminary views on competition issues arising from the proposed 
acquisition  
 
identifies areas of further inquiry 
 
invites interested parties to submit comments and information to assist our 
assessment of the issues. 
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views 
3. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is 
in section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the Act). Section 50 
prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of 
substantially lessening competition in any market. 
4. 
The ACCC divides its preliminary views into three categories, 'issues of concern', 
'issues that may raise concerns' and ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’. In this 
Statement of Issues, the ACCC has identified one issue that may raise concerns 
and one issue that is unlikely to raise concerns.  
Issue that may raise concerns 
5. 
Australian customers of coking coal appear to benefit from competition between 
South32 and Metropolitan. The proposed acquisition would remove this 
competitive rivalry and, in the medium term, is expected to result in a single 


South32 – proposed acquisition of Metropolitan 
 
Page 2 of 15 
supplier of material volumes of coking coal from the Illawarra region, which is the 
closest source of coking coal to Australian customers. The ACCC’s preliminary 
view is that this may substantially lessen competition in the supply of coking coal 
to Australian customers.  
6. 
If the ACCC’s further investigations show that: 
 
there is competitive rivalry between South32 and Metropolitan; and  
 
the supply of coking coal from the Bowen Basin (to Australian customers) 
is not a close constraint on South32 and Metropolitan 
then the ACCC considers that the proposed acquisition is likely to substantially 
lessen competition. 
Issue that is unlikely to raise concerns 
7. 
The proposed acquisition appears unlikely to increase the risk that South32 
would be able to foreclose current or potential rival coal producers from the Port 
Kembla Coal Terminal. Accordingly, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that 
South32’s acquisition of a 16.67 per cent interest in the Port Kembla Coal 
Terminal Limited, as a result of the proposed acquisition, is unlikely to raise 
competition concerns.  
Making a submission 
8. 
The ACCC is seeking submissions from interested parties, particularly on the 
following key issues: 
 
substitutability of different grades of coking coal in determining blends of 
coal suitable for coke production and steel manufacturing  
 
substitutability of Illawarra sourced coking coal with coking coal available in 
other regions in terms of technical and physical properties  
 
likely cost to Australian steelmakers in sourcing large quantities of coking 
coal from the Bowen Basin, including transportation costs, capital costs 
associated with any necessary infrastructure upgrade and other potential 
costs.  
9. 
Detailed discussion of these and other issues, along with specific questions, is 
contained in this Statement of Issues.  
10. 
Interested parties should provide submissions by no later than 5pm on Friday 
10 March 2017. Responses may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the 
title: Submission re: South32 – Metropolitan (attention Elizabeth Elias/Shantanu 
Govil). If you would like to discuss the matter with ACCC officers over the 
telephone or in person, or have any questions about this Statement of Issues, 
please contact Shantanu Govil on 03 9290 6922 or Elizabeth Elias on 02 6243 
1104.  
11. 
The ACCC anticipates making a final decision on 6 April 2017. However, this 
timeline can change. To keep abreast of possible changes in relation to timing 


South32 – proposed acquisition of Metropolitan 
 
Page 3 of 15 
and to find relevant documents, interested parties should visit the Mergers 
Register on the ACCC's website at www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
Confidentiality of submissions 
12. 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We 
will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) 
unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation 
or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition 
and Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where possible so that you may 
have an opportunity to be heard. Therefore, if the information provided to the 
ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’ 
13. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well 
as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
14. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 
Timeline 
Date 
Event 
2 December 2016 
ACCC commenced review of the proposed 
acquisition 
23 February 2017 
ACCC publication of Statement of Issues 
10 March 2017 
Deadline for submissions from interested parties in 
response to this Statement of Issues 
6 April 2017 
Proposed date for ACCC final decision  
The parties 
The acquirer – South32  
15. 
South32 is a global metals and mining firm which operates in Australia, Southern 
Africa and South America. South32 is listed on the Australian Securities 
Exchange. Until 2015, South32 was part of the BHP Billiton Group. South32 has 
interests in supply of nickel, zinc, aluminium, manganese, silver, lead and coal.  


South32 – proposed acquisition of Metropolitan 
 
Page 4 of 15 
16. 
Relevantly, South32 operates two coal mines, the Appin and Dendrobium mines 
in the Illawarra region of NSW, which primarily produce coking coal. South32 
also operates coal preparation plants at Westcliff and Dendrobium. South32 
produced approximately 7 million tonnes of coking coal in Australia in the 2015-
16 financial year. Approximately 70-80 per cent of the coking coal produced by 
South32 is exported.  
17. 
South32 currently has a 16.67 per cent interest in Port Kembla Coal Terminal 
Limited. South32 also manages the Port Kembla Coal Terminal, on behalf of the 
consortium of coal producers which owns the facility through Port Kembla Coal 
Terminal Limited. 
The target – Metropolitan  
18. 
Metropolitan is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Peabody, the world’s largest 
privately owned coal company. Metropolitan owns the Metropolitan mine, located 
in Helensburgh in the Illawarra region of NSW. The Metropolitan mine produces 
coking coal and, in 2015, produced approximately 1.9 million tonnes. 
19. 
Just over half the coal produced at the Metropolitan mine is exported, primarily to 
Asia. The remainder of the coal produced at the Metropolitan mine is supplied to 
Australian customers such as BlueScope Steel Limited (BlueScope) and Arrium 
Limited (Arrium). 
20. 
Metropolitan’s domestic sales are largely for semi hard coking coal.  
21. 
Metropolitan also has a 16.67 per cent interest in Port Kembla Coal Terminal 
Limited. 
Other industry participants 
Other Illawarra coal producers  
22. 
In addition to the merger parties, there is currently one other producer of material 
quantities of coking coal in the Illawarra region.  
23. 
Glencore owns the Tahmoor mine which operates in the Bulli coal seam in the 
Illawarra region of NSW. The Tahmoor mine principally produces coking coal but 
some steaming coal is also produced. Its annual production is approximately 1.8 
million tonnes.  
24. 
Glencore announced on 1 June 2016 that it plans to close the Tahmoor mine by 
early 2019.1 
25. 
There is one other producer of coking coal in the Illawarra region, Wollongong 
Coal, however Wollongong Coal only produces small quantities of coking coal. 
                                                 
 
1  http://www.tahmoorcoal.com.au/EN/Documents/160601%20-
%20Tahmoor%20mine%20closure%20-%20media%20statement.pdf  


South32 – proposed acquisition of Metropolitan 
 
Page 5 of 15 
Australian customers of coking coal 
26. 
There are two domestic customers of coking coal in Australia, BlueScope and 
Arrium.  
BlueScope Steel Limited 
27. 
BlueScope operates the Port Kembla Steelworks in the Illawarra region of NSW, 
which is the largest steelworks in Australia. BlueScope manufactures 
approximately 2.6 million tonnes of crude steel from its steelworks in the 
Illawarra. BlueScope manufactures approximately 1.65 million tonnes of coke 
per annum, some of which it sells as a standalone product.  
28. 
BlueScope currently sources all its coking coal from the Illawarra region. 
BlueScope purchases coking coal from the South32, Metropolitan and Tahmoor 
mines. BlueScope has previously sourced small quantities of coking coal from 
the Hunter Valley.  
Arrium 
29. 
Arrium Limited (Arrium) operates the OneSteel Whyalla Steelworks (located in 
South Australia). Arrium makes finished and semi-finished steel products.  
30. 
Arrium sources a significant proportion of its coking coal from the Illawarra 
region, acquiring coal from both South32 and Metropolitan. Arrium has also 
sourced coking coal from elsewhere, mainly from the Hunter Valley and 
Queensland. All of the coal acquired by Arrium is shipped to the OneSteel 
steelworks in Whyalla.  
31. 
Arrium was placed into voluntary administration on 7 April 2016 and is currently 
subject to a deed of company arrangement.  
Industry background 
32. 
Australia accounts for approximately 60 per cent of global coking coal exports 
and produced an estimated 188 million tonnes in the 2015-16 financial year.  
33. 
A vast majority (95 per cent) of the coking coal produced in Australia is exported 
to international customers, including to China, Japan, South Korea, Europe and 
India. 
34. 
Coking coal in Australia is predominantly produced in the Bowen Basin in 
Queensland and in the Illawarra region in NSW. Small quantities of semi soft 
coking coal are also available in the Hunter Valley in NSW. 
35. 
Coking coal is categorised into grades based on its chemical composition. High 
quality and more expensive coking coals are characterised by higher levels of 
volatile matter, carbon, rank and plasticity. Coking coal grades, in order of 
quality, include: premium hard coking coal, hard coking coal, semi hard coking 
coal, semi soft coking coal and pulverised coal injection coal.  
36. 
To produce coke, steelmakers use a blend of coals from different sources, with a 
blend likely to include both higher quality and lower quality grades. Steelmakers 
will typically blend coals from a variety of sources to obtain a blend of coal that 


South32 – proposed acquisition of Metropolitan 
 
Page 6 of 15 
will make a target quality of coke as economically as possible. Coke quality and 
yield, as well as the delivered cost of the coal and the cost of disposing of 
unwanted material will all be taken into account by a steelmaker in determining 
the optimal mix of coals.  
The proposed transaction 
37. 
On 3 November 2016, South32 announced its proposal to acquire Metropolitan 
from Peabody for $US200 million. South32 intends to purchase 100 per cent of 
the shares of Metropolitan which owns the Metropolitan coal mine and a 
16.67 per cent interest in Port Kembla Coal Terminal Limited.  
Areas of overlap 
38. 
South32 and Metropolitan are the two largest producers of coking coal in the 
Illawarra region and two of the largest suppliers of coking coal to the two 
Australian steelmakers.  
39. 
While South32 and Metropolitan sell different grades of coal, the ACCC 
understands that premium hard coking coal from South32 and hard coking coal 
from Metropolitan are substitutable to an extent. The ACCC also understands 
that semi hard coking coal produced by Metropolitan can be an alternative 
coking coal feedstock, capable of displacing a proportion of the hard coking coal 
used in a steelmaker’s blast furnace. The degree of this substitutability is an 
issue the ACCC is exploring further.  
Future with and without the acquisition  
40. 
Section 50 of the Act prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect or be likely 
to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. In assessing 
a proposed acquisition pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC considers 
the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future competitive 
environment post-acquisition if the acquisition proceeds (the “with” position) to 
the likely future competitive environment if the acquisition does not proceed (the 
“without” position) to determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in any relevant market. 
41. 
On the basis of the information currently available, the ACCC considers the likely 
competitive environment if the acquisition does not proceed will involve South32 
and Metropolitan continuing to compete with each other, with Metropolitan under 
the ownership of Peabody or an alternative owner.  
Previous ACCC decisions 
42. 
The ACCC has previously considered acquisitions involving an aggregation in 
coal production. The most recent is the ACCC’s review of Glencore 
International’s acquisition of Xstrata plc in 2012. In that review, the ACCC 
considered a number of product markets were relevant to the proposed 
acquisition including in relation to seaborne coal, a market for thermal coal and a 
market for coking coal. In that review, the ACCC considered the impact of the 
acquisition on both the Australian and the global markets for the affected 
products.  


South32 – proposed acquisition of Metropolitan 
 
Page 7 of 15 
43. 
The ACCC notes previous acquisitions considered by the ACCC involving coking 
coal production did not involve significant overlap in the supply of coking coal to 
domestic customers. 
Market definition 
44. 
The ACCC’s starting point for delineating relevant markets is to identify the 
products actually or potentially supplied by the merger parties. The ACCC then 
considers what other products constitute sufficiently close substitutes to provide 
a significant source of constraint on the acquirer (i.e. South32) following the 
proposed acquisition.  
45. 
The ACCC is continuing to consider the boundaries of the relevant market(s) 
affected by the proposed acquisition. The ACCC notes that market definition 
depends on the specific facts and circumstances of each particular merger, and 
current evidence from market participants is critical. Decisions relating to market 
definitions in previous, albeit similar, merger inquiries may therefore provide only 
limited guidance.  
46. 
The ACCC’s preliminary views on the product and geographical dimensions of 
the relevant market are set out below.  
Product dimension  
47. 
As noted above, South32 and Metropolitan are suppliers of coking coal. South32 
predominantly blends the production from its Illawarra mines and sells the blend 
as premium hard coking coal. Metropolitan sells hard coking coal (all of which is 
exported), and semi hard coking coal and pulverised coal injection coal which is 
sold to both domestic and export customers.  
48. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that there is a degree of substitutability between 
the various grades and sources of coking coal. The ACCC understands it is 
typical for producers of coke and steel to blend coals from various sources to 
produce coke with the desired physical and chemical characteristics. The ACCC 
also understands that it is possible to use coals from different sources and in 
different combinations to deliver the required coke quality characteristics. 
However, the physical and technical attributes of different coking coals limit the 
ability of steel mills to directly substitute one grade of coking coal for another. 
Even coals of the same grade but from different coal seams can have different 
technical characteristics which may limit the extent of direct substitutability. 
However, in cases where two types of coal are not directly substitutable, the two 
types of coal could form part of two different blends that are substitutable.  
49. 
While semi hard coking coal can replace a certain volume of hard coking coal in 
an overall blend of coals used by a steel mill, only a proportion of hard coking 
coal can be displaced without affecting the performance of the blast furnace and 
the efficiency of iron production. Poorer quality coals also lead to higher levels of 
impurities, such as ash, resulting in lower yield and higher disposal costs for the 
steelmaker.  
50. 
The ACCC also understands that there are costs to customers in switching 
suppliers of coking coal, particularly if a substantial portion of the coking coal 
purchases are being substituted. These costs may include costs associated with 
testing, configuring and re-designing a coking coal blend. However the ACCC’s 


South32 – proposed acquisition of Metropolitan 
 
Page 8 of 15 
preliminary view is that these transition costs are unlikely to be material in the 
context of a significant supply commitment.  
51. 
The ACCC is continuing to consider the appropriate product dimension in this 
case and how limitations on substitution may be relevant to the ACCC’s 
competition assessment. The ACCC notes that there are different opinions on 
the level of substitution between different sources of coal and the extent to which 
one or more coal sources can be substituted in a blend. Given the commercial 
sensitivity of steelmakers’ coal blends, and the consequent information 
asymmetry between coal producers and steel mills, differences in views as to the 
substitutability may be inevitable.   
52. 
Issues relating to the product dimension of the market are explored further under 
the ‘issue of concern’ heading below. 
Geographical dimension 
53. 
The ACCC recognises that coking coal is a globally traded commodity and that 
contractual prices for the supply of coking coal are typically linked to international 
indices or spot prices. While there is clear competition between coking coal 
producers on a global basis, this does not preclude there also being narrower 
geographic market(s) within Australia for supply to domestic customers which 
are relevant to the competition assessment.  
54. 
While prices are linked to international pricing benchmarks, the final agreed 
pricing mechanism is typically a global benchmark price plus or minus a certain 
amount. That final price will be agreed by reference to the technical and physical 
properties of the coal (relative to the characteristics of certain benchmark coal) 
and the bargaining power of the contracting parties. The bargaining power of 
each party will reflect the alternative options for supply or purchase available to 
that counterparty.  
55. 
In an export-focussed industry, where there are competing local suppliers, the 
price for Australian customers is likely to be equivalent or close to export price 
parity. If domestic prices decreased below export price parity, the domestic 
suppliers would switch more volume to exports. On the other hand, if domestic 
prices increased above export price parity, the domestic suppliers would 
compete to supply that Australian customer (as there would be higher returns 
than for exporting), until the price returned to close to export price parity. Market 
feedback indicates that Australian customers’ prices for coking coal are currently 
set by reference to international benchmarks and where the coal producer 
avoids the cost of transporting the coal to the port and loading the coal ready for 
export (which is the case for BlueScope), a rebate will be paid.  
56. 
The ACCC considers that competition is necessary for customers in a region to 
obtain export price parity. If there is a single exporter in a region, that supplier 
will likely set the price to local customers to match the next best option available 
to the customer, which will be supply from another region. This higher price will 
reflect the costs that would be otherwise incurred by the customer in transporting 
from the other region and the capital costs associated with any additional 
transport infrastructure required to bring in coal from the other region. 
57. 
If the cost to the customer of obtaining supply from another region is 5-10 per 
cent higher than the current cost of obtaining supply, then the ACCC considers it 
likely that the region will constitute its own geographic market. This approach 


South32 – proposed acquisition of Metropolitan 
 
Page 9 of 15 
reflects an application of the Hypothetical Monopolist Test from the perspective 
of Australian customers, as set out in the ACCC’s Merger Guidelines.  
58. 
Accordingly, the ACCC is assessing: 
 
the additional transportation costs incurred by Australian customers in 
shipping coking coal from sources outside the Illawarra (including the 
proportion of the overall delivered price which is comprised of 
transportation costs) 
 
other costs to Australian customers of obtaining supply from alternative 
regions, including additional costs associated with managing the risk of a 
longer supply chain (for example, higher inventory costs)  
 
any limitations on the ability of customers to access alternatives sources of 
supply from alternative regions, such as capacity constraints at the 
necessary infrastructure and the capital costs associated with increasing 
the capacity of the infrastructure. 
59. 
The ACCC’s assessment of the factors set out above does not exclude the 
existence of a global seaborne market for coking coal. In addition to this global 
seaborne market, the proposed acquisition is likely to affect a narrower market 
for the supply of coking coal to Australian customers and suppliers in this market 
may be limited to coal producers in the Illawarra.  
Issue that may raise concerns: reduction in competition in 
supply of coking coal to Australian customers 
60. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that Australian customers of coking coal 
currently benefit from local competition between the coal producers in the 
Illawarra region. The proposed acquisition would remove the competitive rivalry 
between South32 and Metropolitan and, following the expected closure of 
Glencore’s Tahmoor mine, result in there being only one supplier of material 
volumes of coking coal from the Illawarra in the medium term.  
61. 
The ACCC is therefore concerned that the proposed acquisition may allow 
South32 to increase the price, or otherwise lessen the terms of supply, for coal 
supplied to Australian customers from the Metropolitan or South32 mines.  
62. 
In determining whether the proposed acquisition is likely to result in a substantial 
lessening of competition, the ACCC is considering the actual and potential 
competitive constraint provided by other suppliers of coking coal, including those 
based in the Illawarra and elsewhere in Australia.  
63. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the alternative actual or potential suppliers 
may not provide sufficient competitive constraint on South32 post-acquisition 
because: 
 
the Illawarra region is not expected to have, in the medium to long term, 
other producers capable of supplying material volumes of technically 
substitutability coking coals  


South32 – proposed acquisition of Metropolitan 
 
Page 10 of 15 
 
there is significant additional cost associated with transporting substitutable 
coking coals from alternative sources to the Australian steelmakers as well 
as potential capacity constraints limiting the ability of one steelmaker to 
import large volumes of coal by ship.  
Availability of substitutes  
64. 
The ACCC is continuing to consider the extent to which alternative sources of 
coking coal are likely to provide a competitive constraint on South32 after the 
acquisition. In considering the extent to which alternative sources are likely to 
provide a competitive constraint, the ACCC considers the credibility of a potential 
threat by a customer to switch to rival sources and the extent to which such a 
threat may constrain an attempt to exercise market power by South32 post-
acquisition.  
Illawarra  
65. 
The ACCC is aware of two other existing coking coal mines in the Illawarra, the 
Tahmoor mine operated by Glencore and Wollongong Coal’s mine in the 
Southern Coalfields Region of NSW. 
66. 
Glencore announced in June 2016 that it will close its Tahmoor mine, citing low 
world coal prices as the reason for its closure. The ACCC is not aware of any 
announcement by Glencore that its intentions have changed and while coal 
prices have increased since Glencore’s announcement, the ACCC does not 
expect the Tahmoor mine would continue to produce coal in the medium term.  
67. 
The ACCC understands that Wollongong Coal is producing only small quantities 
of coking coal, which would likely limit customers’ ability to switch away from 
South32 to Wollongong Coal post-acquisition. Market inquiries also suggest that 
the properties of the coal currently produced from the Wollongong Coal mine 
may limit its suitability (for use in material volumes) for coke production. The 
ACCC further understands that any expansion or changes in Wollongong Coal’s 
operations are subject to a number of regulatory approvals, including in relation 
to the environmental impact of its operations. Accordingly, the likelihood of coal 
production from Wollongong Coal providing an effective constraint on South32 
post acquisition appears small.  
68. 
The ACCC is not aware of any other suppliers of coking coal in the Illawarra. The 
ACCC is, however, aware of a potential new entrant in the Illawarra, Hume Coal, 
which is considered in the ‘Barriers to entry’ section below.  
Hunter Valley 
69. 
The ACCC is aware that coal sourced from the Hunter Valley is used in coking 
coal blends in steelmaking operations in Australia. Market inquiries indicate that 
both semi soft coking coal and pulverised coal injection coal have been sourced 
from the Hunter Valley for use in coke and steel production.  
70. 
However the ACCC understands that coal produced in the Hunter Valley has 
limited coking properties and therefore the proportion of Hunter Valley coal which 
can be used in the blend for the coke ovens is very limited.  


South32 – proposed acquisition of Metropolitan 
 
Page 11 of 15 
71. 
Therefore, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that coal supplied from the Hunter 
Valley is unlikely to provide a competitive constraint to South32 after the 
acquisition.  
Bowen Basin 
72. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that there are a number of coking coal mines in 
the Bowen Basin which can supply coking coal with similar chemical and 
physical properties to the coking coal supplied by South32 and Metropolitan. The 
ACCC is investigating the extent to which the availability of coking coal from the 
Bowen Basin is likely to act as an effective competitive constraint on South32 
post-acquisition.  
73. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that Bowen Basin coking coal is likely to be the 
next best option for Australian steelmakers after Illawarra sourced coking coal. 
The ACCC considers that, post-acquisition, South32 may be able to increase 
prices charged to Australian customers up to the delivered price of substitutable 
coals from the Bowen Basin (including the additional transport/infrastructure 
costs), as it would not face significant local competition. As noted in the market 
definition section, if the price of this next best option (after factoring in transport 
costs and any capital costs associated with adapting infrastructure to allow for 
the required volumes of imports) is less than 5 to 10 per cent higher than current 
prices paid by Australian customers, then the ACCC considers it likely that 
Bowen Basin providers would constrain South32 post-acquisition. If the delivered 
price of Bowen Basin coal is more than 5 to 10 per cent higher than the prices 
currently paid by Australian customers, then Bowen Basin coal is unlikely to be 
an effective competitive constraint on South32 after the acquisition, making it 
more likely that the acquisition will raise competition concerns.  
74. 
The ACCC is continuing to consider the landed cost of coking coal from the 
Bowen Basin. Market inquiries to date suggest that the landed price may be 
significantly higher than the price of coal obtained from the Illawarra because of 
the following factors: 
 
a material increase in transportation costs. Factors that may influence 
transport costs include:  
a. the volume of the coal shipped and in particular the size of the vessel 
employed 
b. the number of deliveries and journeys required 
c. whether Australian cabotage laws apply and the availability of 
vessels meeting Australian cabotage requirements. The ACCC 
understands that Australian cabotage laws may not apply where 
certain size vessels (for example, Cape vessels) are employed 
 
capital costs associated with expanding a customer’s infrastructure (for 
example, handling berth) necessary to receive sufficient volume of coal by 
ship  
 
longer supply chain may require steelmakers to hold additional inventory to 
mitigate the risk of delays which will affect their working capital.  


South32 – proposed acquisition of Metropolitan 
 
Page 12 of 15 
75. 
In relation to transportation costs, BlueScope would incur significantly higher 
freight logistics costs to ship coal from the Bowen Basin via the Queensland coal 
exporting ports to its steel mill at Port Kembla compared to the costs associated 
with the supply of coal from South32 and Metropolitan’s mines in the Illawarra to 
its steelworks at Port Kembla. Market inquiries indicate that the cost of 
transporting coal from the Bowen Basin to Port Kembla is likely to be between 
$US10-15 per tonne. 
76. 
The ACCC also understands that the freight costs which would be incurred by 
Arrium to transport material volumes of coal from the Bowen Basin to its 
steelworks at Whyalla would be materially higher than the costs which Arrium 
incurs in transporting material volumes of coal from Port Kembla to Whyalla. The 
distance and therefore journey time from the coal ports in Queensland to 
Whyalla is approximately double the distance and journey time from Port Kembla 
to Whyalla. This increased journey time would reduce the number of voyages a 
single vessel is able to make in a year, with consequent implications for the 
number of vessels which need to be employed from the spot shipping market as 
well as possible increased inventory costs. 
77. 
The ACCC is continuing to consider possible capacity constraints associated 
with existing infrastructure which may limit the ability of a customer to receive 
material volumes of coal by ship. To the extent that there are existing 
constraints, the ACCC considers it appropriate to consider the capital costs 
associated with an extension and upgrade to existing facilities to enable the 
customer to receive the relevant volumes of coal by ship.  
78. 
In addition to transportation and possible capital costs associated with 
infrastructure upgrade, the ACCC considers it appropriate to consider any 
holding or inventory costs associated with a longer supply chain and potentially 
receiving fewer (but larger) deliveries. The ACCC is continuing to obtain 
information on such costs.  
79. 
Market inquiries also suggest that in comparing the delivered price of coal likely 
to be paid by the steelmakers, it may be important to consider the likelihood of a 
discount or premium (relative to the relevant benchmark) being applied to the 
rival coal source as this will influence the overall delivered price of the coal. For 
example, a semi hard coking coal sourced from a particular mine in the Bowen 
Basin may be priced at a relatively cheaper level to the Metropolitan semi hard 
coking coal potentially resulting in a similar or potentially even lower delivered 
price. However, market inquiries suggest that coal which is cheaper due to its 
chemical and physical attributes may perform less effectively in the coke ovens. 
Accordingly, adjustments for performance, as well as any consequent 
adjustments to the blend to ensure compatible coal is employed, would also 
need to be taken into account in comparing the delivered price for such coal. The 
ACCC notes that the vast majority of coking coal from the Bowen Basin is 
exported to international customers and that coal producers in the Bowen Basin 
would have not have an incentive to supply Australian customers unless they are 
able to sell the coal at a margin that is as at least equal to that which can be 
achieved on the global market. 
80. 
The ACCC notes that the significance of the incremental transport costs for 
customers depends on the underlying price paid for the coal (free on board or 
FOB equivalent). The price of coking coal has fluctuated significantly in the past 
12 months and there are varying forecasts as to price levels in the next 12 


South32 – proposed acquisition of Metropolitan 
 
Page 13 of 15 
months. The ACCC's preliminary view is that it is appropriate to consider the 
materiality of the incremental transport costs against the long term average price 
for coking coal. 
81. 
The ACCC understands that long term contracts may prevent price rises and 
provide a degree of protection for Australian customers. While the existence of 
such a contract would prevent South32 from raising the price of coal produced in 
its Illawarra mines up to the delivered price of Bowen Basin coal, it would not 
prevent South32 from increasing the price of coal produced from the 
Metropolitan mine up to the level prescribed in a long term contract. The 
existence of a long term contract would also not protect a customer from the cost 
impacts associated with any decision by South32 to discontinue the supply of 
semi hard coking coal from the Metropolitan mine post-acquisition (discussed 
below).  
Blending synergies and potential impact on Australian customers 
82. 
The ACCC considers that, post-acquisition, South32 would appear to have an 
incentive to blend the coal produced from the Metropolitan mine with the 
premium hard coking coal produced from South32’s Illawarra mines. A blend of 
South32’s premium hard coking coal and Metropolitan’s semi hard coking coal  
is likely to achieve a higher price than would be achieved selling the two coals 
separately.  
83. 
Australian customers have raised concerns that if South32 were to pursue such 
a strategy and discontinue the supply of the semi hard coking coal currently 
provided by Metropolitan, customers would be forced to either purchase higher 
priced hard coking coal from South32 and/or source semi hard coking coal from 
other regions at a significantly higher landed cost. The ACCC is continuing to 
consider this issue and the extent to which coal producers’ blending strategies 
are influenced by competition.  
Barriers to entry and expansion 
84. 
The ACCC takes the view that new entry must be timely, likely and sufficient in 
scope to be considered a constraint. In assessing the likelihood of new entry, the 
ACCC takes into account the likely cost and profitability of entering the market, 
particularly the sunk costs and time associated with commencing mining 
operations.  
85. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is the entry of a new coal producer in the Illawarra 
capable of supplying a material volume of substitute coal is unlikely in the short 
to medium term having regard to:  
 
the existence of significant sunk costs in commencing mining operations, 
which increases the risk of, and the cost associated with, failed entry. The 
high risk and costs associated with failed entry are likely to deter new entry 
 
the need to obtain the regulatory approvals, particularly environmental 
approvals, which can be time consuming. The Illawarra coal seams are 
located close to national parks and the Sydney water catchment area 
which increases the complexity of obtaining the regulatory approvals.  


South32 – proposed acquisition of Metropolitan 
 
Page 14 of 15 
86. 
The ACCC is aware that Hume Coal2 is a potential new entrant in the Illawarra 
region. Hume Coal is not expected to commence operations until at least 2021 
and needs the regulatory approvals outlined above. Given the uncertainty as to 
the commencement date and the future ability of Hume Coal to supply Australian 
steelmakers, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that Hume Coal is unlikely to 
constrain South 32 in the short to medium-term.3 
87. 
As set out above, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that Wollongong Coal faces 
some barriers to expansion due to the need to secure a number of regulatory 
approvals in relation to the environmental impact of the mine and Wollongong 
Coal’s proposed plans.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to a 
reduction in competition for the supply of coking coal to Australian customers. In 
particular market participants may wish to comment on the following: 
 
substitutability between different grades of coking coal, including the physical and 
technical characteristics that distinguish different grades of coking coal and the 
impact of substituting higher quality coals with lower quality coals (including its 
impact on coke yield, furnace and coke oven performance and waste disposal 
cost) 
 
substitutability of Illawarra sourced coking coal with coking coal available in other 
regions, particularly the Hunter Valley in NSW and the Bowen Basin in 
Queensland, as well as potential future sources of coking coal in the Illawarra  
 
the cost to the Australian steelmakers of obtaining coking coal from other regions, 
including the freight and handling costs, likelihood of any capital investment 
necessary to receive significant quantities from a different region or impact on 
working capital as a result of longer supply chains (including these costs as a 
proportion of total delivered price) 
 
likelihood and cost of importing coking coal to Australia, including transportation 
costs and historical examples of imports of coking coal to Australia.  
Issue that is unlikely to raise concerns: access to Port 
Kembla Coal Terminal  
88. 
The ACCC has considered whether the increase in South32’s shareholding in 
the Port Kembla Coal Terminal Limited as a result of the proposed acquisition 
gives rise to any competition concerns. In particular, the ACCC has considered 
whether South32 would, post-acquisition, have the ability and incentive to 
foreclose current or future coal producers from access to the export facilities at 
the Port Kembla Coal Terminal in a way which would lessen competition in the 
relevant market for coal production.  
89. 
The proposed acquisition would increase South32’s shareholding in Port Kembla 
Coal Terminal Limited from 16.67 per cent to 33.34 per cent. If the proposed 
                                                 
 
2  Hume Coal is a subsidiary of POSCO Australia, which in turn is wholly owned by Korean 
company POSCO. 
3  https://www.humecoal.com.au/project/assessment-timeline/.  


South32 – proposed acquisition of Metropolitan 
 
Page 15 of 15 
acquisition proceeds, the remaining shareholders would be Glencore (33.34 per 
cent), Centennial Coal Company Limited (16.67 per cent) and Wollongong Coal 
Ltd (16.67 per cent).  
90. 
Post-acquisition, South32 would not hold a majority interest in Port Kembla Coal 
Terminal Limited or a majority of the voting power at board level. While South32 
would, following the proposed acquisition, have a veto power over board 
decisions concerning a limited range of matters (as would Glencore), none of 
these matters relate to the day to day operation of the facility. The ACCC has 
also considered whether the increase in South32’s interest in the Port Kembla 
Coal Terminal Limited would change the incentives of South32 and the 
remaining shareholders (for example, increase their interdependence) in such a 
way that the acquisition would have an anti-competitive effect.  
91. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is not likely to give 
South32 the ability to control the decision making of the board of Port Kembla 
Coal Terminal Limited and is unlikely to give rise to significant competition 
concerns. 
ACCC's future steps 
92. 
As noted above, the ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on 
each of the issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue 
that may be relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. Submissions are 
to be received by the ACCC no later than Friday 10 March 2017 and should be 
emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au. 
93. 
The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
94. 
The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by Thursday 6 April 2017. 
However the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose 
of explaining the ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's 
public announcement to explain its final view. 
