 
 
 
 
 
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
tel: (02) 6243 1368 
mergers@accc.gov.au
www.accc.gov.au
 
 
 
 
Our ref: IM-72545 
12 April 2024 
Dear Interested Party 
Re: Request for submissions: Olam (Queensland Cotton)’s proposed 
acquisition of Namoi Cotton Limited 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
the proposed acquisition of Namoi Cotton Limited (Namoi) by Olam Agri Holdings Limited 
(Olam) (the proposed acquisition). 
Olam, via subsidiaries including Queensland Cotton Corporation Pty Ltd (Queensland 
Cotton), supplies ginning services to growers, and acquires and markets cotton lint and 
cottonseed. Olam also has a 20% interest in ProClass Pty Ltd, which supplies cotton lint 
classing services. Namoi’s business comprises cotton ginning, cottonseed and cotton lint 
marketing, and cotton lint classing as well as warehousing and logistics services as part of 
its cotton marketing activities. Further details are provided at Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact on competition. In particular, we are 
seeking your views on: 
• 
the likely impact on prices and service quality in the supply of ginning services 
• 
the likely impact on prices and service quality in the supply of classing services 
• 
the likely impact on prices for warehousing for cotton to be exported from Australia 
• 
whether the proposed acquisition is likely to give Olam the ability and incentive to 
foreclose its competitors post-acquisition. 
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
How to share your views 
Please provide your response by 29 April 2024 via email to mergers@accc.gov.au with the 


 
 
title: Submission re: Olam’s proposed acquisition of Namoi. If you require more time to 
respond, please let us know. 
If you would like to arrange a time to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any 
questions about this letter, please contact mergers@accc.gov.au.  
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public 
Mergers Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC treats sensitive information it receives during a merger review as confidential, and will 
not publish your submission. We will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our 
advisors/consultants) unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information 
legislation or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition and 
Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, we will notify 
you in advance where possible so that you have an opportunity to be heard. Therefore please 
clearly indicate if any information you provide is confidential. Our Informal Merger Review Process 
Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
Bruce Mikkelsen 
Acting General Manager  
Merger Investigations  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
Attachment A 
The proposed acquisition 
Olam proposes to acquire 100% of the available shares in Namoi by way of a 
scheme of arrangement, takeover or a concurrent scheme of arrangement and 
takeover. 
Olam 
Olam operates an integrated supply chain for cotton and pulse crops. Its cotton 
business is run by its wholly owned subsidiary, Queensland Cotton.  
Queensland Cotton supplies ginning services to growers, and acquires and markets 
cotton lint and cottonseed. Queensland Cotton operates 6 gins across Queensland 
and NSW (set out in Attachment C). 
Olam has a 20% shareholding in ProClass Pty Ltd (ProClass), which supplies cotton 
lint classing services in Australia. 
Olam also operates its own warehousing facilities in Queensland and NSW for cotton 
to be exported out of the Port of Brisbane or Port of Sydney. 
Namoi 
Namoi’s business comprises of cotton ginning, sourcing of cotton lint, cottonseed 
marketing and cotton lint classing. 
Namoi operates 10 cotton gins at 9 sites across NSW and Queensland (set out in 
Attachment C). It has a ~17% interest in the Kimberley Cotton Company, which will 
operate a multi-user cotton gin in Kununurra (WA) due to be completed in July 2025. 
Namoi owns Australian Classing Services Pty Ltd (ACS), which provides cotton lint 
classing services. 
Namoi joint ventures 
Namoi has 2 joint venture arrangements in place with Louis Dreyfus Company (LDC) 
via: 
 
• 
the Namoi Cotton Alliance (the NCA), and 
• 
the Namoi Cotton Marketing Alliance (the NCMA). 
The NCA (of which LDC holds a 49% interest, with Namoi holding 51%) stores and 
transports cotton lint bales through its warehousing facilities. It also provides 
agricultural commodities packing services. It has warehouse facilities in Wee Waa, 
Warren and Goondiwindi. All its facilities have rail access. 
The NCMA (of which LDC holds an 85% interest, with Namoi holding the remaining 
15%) is involved in the trading and marketing of cotton lint. Namoi exclusively 
supplies all cotton lint bales acquired by it to the NCMA and the NCMA exclusively 
supplies its services to Namoi. 
 
 


 
 
Attachment B 
1. Describe your business or organisation and explain your interest in the proposed 
acquisition, including any commercial relationship(s) with Olam or Namoi. 
If you are a supplier or customer of either of the parties, please provide details of 
these commercial arrangements, including the volume and value of products 
supplied/purchased and terms of the arrangements including the duration and 
expiry of any contract. 
The questions below are divided into different categories, but you are welcome to 
comment on any question/s in any category. 
Cotton gins 
2. Identify and describe alternative suppliers of ginning services that compete with 
Olam and Namoi. Please specify the location/s in which these suppliers compete 
with Olam and Namoi. 
3. Comment on the geographic area over which customers would travel to source 
cotton ginning services and their ability to source these services from other 
locations or further away in response to a price increase. In your response, 
please address transport costs and any other relevant factors. 
Cotton classing services 
4. Identify and describe alternative suppliers of classing services that compete with 
ProClass (in which Olam has a 20% shareholding) and Namoi (through ACS). 
5. Describe any barriers to entry in relation to supplying cotton lint classing services 
in Australia. You may wish to comment on costs of entry including the costs of 
High Volume Instrument machines, time taken to enter, customer loyalty, 
experience/expertise of staff and any other factors you consider relevant. 
6. Describe the importance of visual classing as an alternative to machine classing 
to the industry. 
Warehousing 
7. Identify and describe alternative suppliers of warehousing for cotton to be 
exported out of the Port of Brisbane and Port of Sydney that compete with Olam 
and Namoi. 
8. Comment on the ease and cost of obtaining new warehousing for cotton. You 
may wish to also comment on the importance of having warehousing in close 
proximity to ports of export and any unique characteristics of cotton warehousing. 
Sellers of cottonseed and/or cotton lint 
9. Describe the nature and extent of competition between Olam and Namoi in NSW, 
Queensland and Australia for the purchase of cottonseed and/or cotton lint from 
cotton growers. 
10. Comment on alternative buyers of cottonseed and/or cotton lint available to 
cotton growers post-acquisition. You may wish to address: 
a. whether transport costs impact the viability of different alternatives, and 
b. whether cotton growers are able to sell to different cotton 
merchants/purchasers easily. 
11. Comment on the ability of cotton growers to negotiate the price for cottonseed 
and/or cotton lint with cotton merchants.  


 
 
Vertical effects 
12. Comment on the ability and incentive of Olam to limit cotton growers’ access to 
its ginning facilities in NSW and Queensland post-acquisition. In responding, 
please address: 
a. the current ability of cotton growers to use Olam and Namoi ginning 
facilities to supply rival merchants, and how this may be affected by the 
proposed acquisition 
b. Olam’s ability to control the warehousing and distribution of cottonseed 
and cotton lint after the ginning process, and 
c. the extent to which a cotton growers’ choice of gins is geographically 
constrained due to transport or logistics issues associated with the 
distance between a grower and gin. 
13. Comment on the ability and incentive of Olam to limit cotton merchants’ access to 
its warehousing post-acquisition. In responding, please address: 
a. the current ability of cotton merchants to use Olam and Namoi ginning 
warehousing, and how this may be affected by the proposed acquisition, 
and 
b. Olam’s ability to control the warehousing and distribution of cottonseed 
and cotton lint after the ginning process. 
Other 
14. Please provide any additional information or comments that you consider relevant 
to the ACCC’s consideration of the proposed acquisition. 
 
 
 


 
 
Attachment C 
Table 1: Olam operated gins 
Gin 
Valley/Region 
Queensland Cotton Wee Waa  
Wee Waa (NSW) 
Queensland Cotton Emerald 
Emerald (Qld) 
Queensland Cotton Moura 
Moura (Qld) 
Queensland Cotton Dalby 
Dalby (Qld) 
Queensland Cotton Cecil Plains 
Cecil Plains (Qld) 
Queensland Cotton Beardmore/St 
George 
Beardmore (Qld) 
 
Table 2: Namoi operated gins 
Gin 
Valley/Region 
Namoi Cotton – North Bourke 
Bourke (NSW) 
Namoi Cotton – Wathagar (50%) 
Gwydir (NSW) 
Namoi Cotton – Merah North 
Lower Namoi (NSW) 
Namoi Cotton – Moomin (75%) 
Lower Namoi (NSW) 
Namoi Cotton – MacIntyre (1 and 2) 
MacIntyre (Queensland) 
Namoi Cotton – Trangie 
Macquarie (NSW) 
Namoi Cotton – Mungindi 
Mungindi (NSW) 
Namoi Cotton – Hillston 
Murrumbidgee (NSW) 
Namoi Cotton – Boggabri 
Upper Namoi (NSW) 
Kimberley Cotton Company Kununurra 
gin (17%) 
Kununurra (Western Australia) 
(expected for completion in July 2025) 
 
