 
 
1 
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
tel: (02) 6243 1368 
mergers@accc.gov.au
www.accc.gov.au
 
 
Our ref:  
IM-71709 
Contact officer: 
Sophie Musker / Nissa Burns 
Contact phone:  
(03) 9658 6408 / (03) 9910 9558 
4 March 2022  
Dear Interested Party 
Request for submissions: Culligan Group’s proposed acquisition of Waterlogic 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
Culligan Group’s (which includes the Zip brand) proposed acquisition of Waterlogic (which 
includes the Billi and Waterlogic Australia brands) (the proposed acquisition). 1 
Culligan Group and Waterlogic overlap in the supply of water dispensing products including 
multi function taps, wall mounted boilers, bottle free coolers, bubblers and other water 
dispensing solutions. 
As part of the proposed acquisition, Osmosis Buyer Limited (the owner of Culligan Group) 
proposes to offer a court enforceable undertaking to the ACCC to divest the Billi business 
(the proposed divestment undertaking). 
Further detail regarding the proposed acquisition and the proposed divestment undertaking 
is at Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact on competition but will also concurrently 
consider the proposed divestment undertaking. In particular, we are seeking your views on 
the effects in Australia including: 
• 
how closely Culligan Group and Waterlogic compete in the provision of water 
dispensing products  
• 
whether there are sufficient alternative suppliers to maintain competition  
• 
the impact on price, quality or service levels if the proposed acquisition proceeds 
• 
the proposal to divest Billi. 
 
 
1 Osmosis Buyer Limited’s which controls the entities that operate the Culligan Group propose 
to acquire Firewall Holding S.A.R.L which is the majority shareholder in Waterlogic Group 
Holdings Limited.  


 
2 
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed merger is in section 50 
of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits mergers and acquisitions 
that are likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
Please provide your response by no later than 21 March 2022. Responses may be emailed 
to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: Submission re: Culligan/Waterlogic - attention 
Sophie Musker / Nissa Burns.  
Please note the ACCC has not yet formed a view as to the nature and extent of any 
competition concerns with respect to the proposed acquisition, or whether they are capable 
of being addressed by Osmosis Buyer Limited’s proposal to divest the Billi business. The 
market consultation process should not be taken as an indication that the ACCC will accept 
the proposed undertaking. 
If you would like to arrange a time to discuss the matter with ACCC staff, or have any 
questions about this letter, please contact Sophie Musker on (03) 9658 6408 or Nissa 
Burns on (03) 9910 9558. 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public 
Mergers Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We will not 
disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by 
law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or during court proceedings) or 
in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010.  Where the 
ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, the ACCC will notify you in advance 
where possible so that you may have an opportunity to be heard.  Therefore, if the 
information provided to the ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our 
Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
Daniel McCracken-Hewson 
General Manager 
Merger Investigations


 
 
3 
Attachment A 
The proposed acquisition 
Osmosis Buyer Limited (Osmosis), the owner of Culligan Group, intends to acquire 100% of the 
shares in Firewall, the majority shareholder in Waterlogic. 
Culligan Group 
Osmosis controls entities that operate the Culligan Group, an international provider of water 
treatment solutions. In Australia this includes Zip Industries Pty Ltd and Zip Heaters (Aust) 
Pty Ltd (together Zip). 
 
In Australia, Zip supplies and services: 
• 
multi function taps (MFTs) 
• 
wall mounted boilers (also known as on-wall boilers)  
• 
bubblers. 
• 
bottle free coolers (BFCs) and 
• 
tap and refillable bottle solutions via its Vestal brand. 
Zip also manufactures MFTs, wall mounted boilers and bubblers.  
Waterlogic 
Firewall is the majority shareholder of Waterlogic Group Holdings Limited (Waterlogic).  
Waterlogic is an international provider of purified drinking water dispensers. Waterlogic 
manufactures water products (MFTs and BFCs) in China, the United States and Australia 
(the latter through its Billi brand). 
In Australia, Waterlogic manufactures and supplies water products and services through Billi 
Australia Pty Ltd (Billi) and Waterlogic Australia Pty Ltd (Waterlogic Australia). 
 
Billi manufactures, supplies and services Billi-branded MFTs. 
Waterlogic Australia primarily rents and services: 
• 
MFTs 
• 
BFCs  
• 
tap and refillable bottle solutions via its Purezza brand  
• 
wall mounted boilers and  
• 
bubblers.  
The proposed divestment undertaking 
To pre-emptively address any potential competition concerns that may arise from the 
proposed acquisition, Osmosis proposes to offer a court enforceable undertaking to divest 
the Billi business to a purchaser approved by the ACCC (Approved Purchaser). The 
divestment proposal will include: 
• 
the relevant Australian entities which form part of Billi, 
 


 
4 
• 
the Billi manufacturing plant in Thomastown, Melbourne, including all property, plant and 
equipment, including assembly lines, necessary for manufacturing Billi products, 
• 
at the option of the purchaser, any or all of the five Waterlogic Australia leased service 
centres located in Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth, including property 
and equipment located on site necessary for the operation of Billi at the service centre, 
• 
at the option of the purchaser, the transfer of relevant employees, 
• 
the global Billi brand and other Billi owned or licensed intellectual property, 
• 
all assets used to supply aftersales services and spare parts, 
• 
all existing customer contracts, sales orders and purchase orders entered into by Billi, 
• 
all material supply and distribution contracts entered into by Billi, and 
• 
all current and historical customer records and other marketing materials used by Billi, 
(the Divestment Business). 
The divestment proposal requires Osmosis to appoint an ACCC-approved independent 
manager of Billi during the divestiture period (from the date of the completion of the 
acquisition to the date of completion of the divestiture) and an ACCC-approved independent 
auditor to monitor Osmosis’ compliance with the court enforceable undertaking. 
Further, at the option of the purchaser, Osmosis must supply the Approved Purchaser a 
transitional supply agreement for any goods or services that are required by the Approved 
Purchaser to establish itself as a competitor for the supply of MFTs in Australia. 
For a more detailed description of the assets to be divested, please refer to Attachment C. 
 
 


 
 
5 
Attachment B   
1. Provide a brief description of your business or organisation and explain your 
interest in the proposed acquisition, including any commercial relationship(s) with 
Zip, Billi or Waterlogic Australia.  
2. For customers of Zip, Billi or Waterlogic Australia – details of your water 
dispensing purchases and reasons for using that brand. 
3. For suppliers to Zip, Billi or Waterlogic Australia – what products do you supply to 
these entities and what other businesses do you supply these products to? 
4. How competitive is the manufacture, supply (sale and rental) and servicing of: 
a. MFTs 
b. wall mounted boilers 
c. BFCs 
d. bubblers 
e. other water dispensing solutions, such as those provided by Vestal and 
Purezza. 
5. Who are the main competitors for these products, and how do they compare 
based on factors such as price, service quality and market share? 
6. How closely does Zip compete with Billi and Waterlogic Australia for the 
manufacture, supply and servicing of these products (noting the proposal to 
divest Billi)? 
7. What is the cost and time for customers to switch between brands and types of 
water dispensing products? 
8. To what extent are the products listed in (4) substitutable? For example, do you 
consider MFTs substitutable with BFCs and/or bubblers?  
9. To what extent are these products substitutable with alternative water dispensing 
products? For example, do you consider bottled water and/or bottled water 
coolers to be substitutes of any of the products listed above? 
10. How easy or difficult it is for new entrants to enter and expand in the 
manufacture, supply and servicing of the previously mentioned products? 
11. Do you have any concerns about the likely competition effects of the proposed 
acquisition? Please include any reasons for this concern. 
The remedy proposal (divestment of Billi) 
12. Is the remedy proposal sufficient to replace any loss of competition resulting from 
the proposed acquisition? Why / why not. 
13. Is the proposed asset package likely to attract a suitable purchaser? To what 
extent would the purchaser of Billi need experience in Australia in order to be a 
viable, effective and long-term competitor?  
14. Would the divestment of Billi fully address any concerns you have in relation to 
the proposed acquisition? 


 
6 
Attachment C 
Divestment Business 
Billi comprises the entities set out in the table below, and as 
accompanied by the assets, licences, agreements and other 
tangible and intangible property listed in Attachment C, to the 
extent required to facilitate the operation of the Divestment 
Business in Australia. 
Entity 
Description 
Billi 
Australia Pty 
Ltd ACN 624 
854 829 
This is an Australian entity which 
supplies all Billi products, including 
but not limited to multifunctional taps, 
and bottle free coolers, whether for 
residential or commercial customers. 
This entity enters into recurring 
service contracts with consumers. 
Billi R&D Pty 
Ltd ACN 136 
662 014 
Billi 
Financial 
Services Pty 
Ltd ACN 613 
926 328 
These are other Australian entities 
which formed part of Waterlogic's 
acquisition of Billi in 2018.  
Intellectual property 
Billi brand trademarks, Australian patents and domain names. 
The books, records and files relating to the prosecution and 
maintenance of the Australian trademarks and patents and 
domain names. 
Manufacturing 
agreement and supply 
of spare parts 
At the option of the Approved Purchaser, for a negotiated term, 
manufacture and supply the Firewall Tower on an exclusive 
original equipment manufacturer basis to the Approved 
Purchaser for sale to customers based in Australia and New 
Zealand. Osmosis (or a related entity) will also supply spare 
parts to support servicing of Firewall Tower units. As a related 
matter, Osmosis (or a related entity) will also license the Firewall 
brand to the Approved Purchaser to allow it to sell the Firewall 
Tower using the current branding in Australia and New Zealand. 
Property, plant and 
equipment 
Billi manufacturing facility 
Billi manufacturing facility located at 42-50 Lucknow Crescent, 
Thomastown VIC 3074. 
Includes all property, plant and equipment, including assembly 
lines necessary for manufacturing Billi products. 
The Billi manufacturing facility lease expires on 1 July 2025, with 
an option for the Approved Purchaser to renew the lease for one 
further term of 5 years. 


 
7 
Waterlogic service centres 
At the option of the purchaser: 
• 
Sydney service centre located at 15/167 Prospect Highway, 
Seven Hills, Sydney NSW 2147 
• 
Melbourne service centre located at 42-50 Lucknow 
Crescent, Thomastown, Melbourne VIC 3074 
• 
Brisbane service centre located at Unit 3, 218 Fison Avenue 
W, Eagle Farm, Brisbane QLD 4009 
• 
Adelaide service centre located at 23 Drayton Street, 
Bowden, Adelaide, SA 5007 
• 
Perth service centre located at Unit 3, 115 Belmont Avenue, 
Perth WA 6104 
Includes all property and equipment located on-site which is 
required to operate the Divestment Business at the service 
centre. 
Each of the listed service centres are under lease with an option 
for the Approved Purchaser to renew the lease for a further term 
(ranging from 3 – 5 years). 
As part of the proposed divestment, the Approved Purchaser can 
enter into a Transitional Supply Agreement with Osmosis for co-
location at any or all of these sites. 
Permits 
All permits, licences, consents, planning permissions, product 
registrations, certifications or authorisations issued by a 
government agency and related documentation and used 
primarily in relation to, or required for the ownership and 
operation of, or required to facilitate the operation of, the 
Divestment Business. 
Products under 
development 
All Billi products under development including products which are 
being jointly developed with Waterlogic.  
At the option of the Approved Purchaser, transitional support 
from Waterlogic to complete the development of any jointly 
developed product(s) in the event that those product(s) are not 
commercialised prior to the divestment of the Divestment 
Business.  
Inventory 
Inventory of the Divestment Business (including spare parts) in 
Australia that exists as at the date of completion of the 
divestiture and is not already sold to a third party will be 
transferred to the Approved Purchaser. 
Employees 
Transfer of:  
• 
all employees engaged in the Billi business in Australia, 
who are wholly or primarily engaged in, or necessary for, 
the operation of the Divestment Business and who 
consent to the transfer of their employment; and 
• 
employees in Australia who are employed by Waterlogic 
but are predominantly involved in work related to the Billi 
business in Australia or necessary for the operation of 


 
8 
the Divestment Business, and who consent to the 
transfer of their employment, subject to agreement by 
the Approved Purchaser. 
Other assets 
• 
All advertising, marketing, sales and promotional materials 
primarily related to, or required for the ownership and 
operation of, the Divestment Business and located within 
Australia; and  
• 
Any equipment, personal computers, vehicles and other 
tangible assets used primarily in relation to, or required for, 
the ownership and operation of the Divestment Business.  
Business records 
All customer and vendor lists, and business, financial and legal 
records, books, documents, literature, files, information and 
materials primarily related to, or required for, the ownership and 
operation of, the Divestment Business.  
Customer records  
All records of customers (current and historical), price lists, 
catalogues and mailing lists which are primarily in relation to, or 
required for, the ownership and operation of the Divestment 
Business in Australia.  
Material supply and 
distribution contracts 
All material contracts, sales orders, purchase orders, instruments 
and other commitments, obligations and arrangements primarily 
related to, or required for the ownership and operation of, the 
Divestment Business. 
For the avoidance of doubt, this includes:  
• 
all distribution agreements between Billi and third-party 
distributors of Billi products; and  
• 
contracts for the service of products sold by Billi in Australia.  
 
 
