 
Page 1 of 9 
 
Public Competition Assessment 
22 December 2015 
Federation Centres and Novion – proposed merger 
Purpose 
1. This public competition assessment outlines reasons for the Australian 
Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) decision on 21 May 2015 to not 
oppose the proposed merger between Federation Centres and Novion Property 
Group (Novion) (the proposed merger) subject to court enforceable divestiture 
undertakings accepted by the ACCC under section 87B of the Competition and 
Consumer Act 2010 (the Act) for the parties to divest one of their shopping 
centres in South East Melbourne (the Undertakings).  
2. ACCC public competition assessments aim to provide the public with a better 
understanding of our analysis of various markets and competition issues. We 
generally issue a public competition assessment for transactions when: 
 
an acquisition is opposed 
 
an acquisition is subject to enforceable undertakings 
 
the parties to the acquisition seek such disclosure, or 
 
an acquisition is not opposed but raises important issues that the ACCC 
considers should be made public. 
3. The ACCC considers each public competition assessment on a case-by-case 
basis. While some transactions may involve the same or related markets, the 
analysis and decision outlined in one assessment will not necessarily reflect the 
ACCC’s view about other transactions. 
4. Public Competition Assessments outline the ACCC’s principal reasons for forming 
views on a proposed acquisition at the time the decision was made. As such, 
Public Competition Assessments may not definitively identify and explain all 
issues that the ACCC considers arise from an acquisition.  
5. Further, the ACCC’s decisions generally involve consideration of confidential 
information provided by the merger parties and market participants. In order to 
maintain the confidentiality of particular information, Public Competition 
Assessments do not contain any confidential information nor identify its sources. 


 
Page 2 of 9 
The proposed merger  
6. Federation Centres and Novion propose to merge via schemes of arrangement, 
which would result in the merged entity having $22 billion of retail assets under 
management with over $18.2 billion in annual retail sales.  
7. The merged entity would own or co-own 92 shopping centres, making it the 
largest owner of shopping centres in Australia based on number of shopping 
centres, and the second largest based on assets under management. 
Primary areas of overlap 
8. Shopping centres can be classified on the basis of their overall size, presence of 
anchor tenants and size of operations of those key tenants. The shopping centres 
in the table below are categorised as follows:  
i. 
Super regional centres – top 10 ranked regional centres based on total 
reported turnover (e.g. Chadstone). 
ii. 
Regional centres – major integrated retail centres with at least one 
department or discount department store with a minimum gross lettable 
area (GLA) of 25,000 sqm (e.g. Chatswood Chase Shopping Centre). 
iii. 
Sub-regional centres – smaller to medium sized centres that generally have 
a GLA less than 25,000 sqm and typically incorporate one discount 
department store, one major supermarket and a range of speciality stores 
(e.g. Rockingham Shopping Centre) . 
9. The table below identifies the primary areas of geographical overlap between the 
merger parties. 
 Region 
Federation Centres 
Novion 
Melbourne CBD 
Victoria Gardens (iii) 
Myer Melbourne (ii) 
Emporium Melbourne (ii) 
East Melbourne 
Box Hill Central (North and South) (iii) 
Brandon Park (iii) 
The Glen (ii) 
Chadstone (i) 
Forest Hill Chase (ii) 
West Melbourne 
Sunshine Marketplace (iii) 
Brimbank (iii) 
Altona Gate (iii) 
Keilor Shopping Centre (iii) 
South East 
Melbourne 
Karingal Hub (iii) 
Bayside (ii) 
Brisbane  
Buranda Village (iii) 
Mt Ommaney (ii) 
Toombul (iii) 
Myer Centre Brisbane (ii) 
QueensPlaza (ii) 
South West Perth 
Warnbro Centre (iii) 
Rockingham (iii) 
The ACCC’s decision 
10. On 21 May 2015, the ACCC announced its decision not to oppose the proposed 
merger after accepting court enforceable undertakings from the merger parties to 
divest one of their shopping centres in South East Melbourne.  


 
Page 3 of 9 
11. As the second largest manager of shopping centre assets in Australia behind 
Scentre (Westfield), the merged entity would manage approximately 15% of 
shopping centres in Australia by value. Other than Westfield and the merged 
entity, there would remain a number of large shopping centre managers with 
portfolios of significant value. 
12. For the purposes of this competition assessment, the main overlap between the 
merger parties is in Frankston, in South East Melbourne. Novion owns and 
operates Bayside Shopping Centre (Bayside) in Frankston’s regional business 
district and Federation Centres has a 50% interest in and manages the Karingal 
Hub Shopping Centre (Karingal), located 4.4km from Bayside.  
13. The ACCC considered that the merger parties were each other’s closest 
competitor in the South East Melbourne market. In fact, they are the only 
shopping centres of any scale within approximately 20 kilometres of the Frankston 
CBD. Other shopping centres in the region are markedly smaller in size and do 
not have the equivalent amenities or range of retailers that are valued by 
customers engaging in multi-purpose shopping. Further information about the 
ACCC’s approach to defining markets is contained in the market definition section 
below. 
14. The ACCC considered that there were unlikely to be competition concerns in the 
other areas of overlap either due to the presence of other competitors that could 
constrain the merged entity, or because the parties were not in close competition 
with each other in these areas.  
15. After detailed analysis of the markets, the ACCC concluded that the proposed 
merger was likely to raise significant competition concerns in the South East 
Melbourne market. 
16. Further details regarding the ACCC’s reasoning are provided below.  
The parties 
Federation Centres 
17. Federation Centres is an Australian real estate investment trust that is involved in 
retail property investment, management and development. Federation Centres 
has traded on the ASX since 2011 and was previously named Centro Retail 
Australia. Federation Centres operates across Australia and owns or co-owns 65 
Australian properties. 
Novion 
18. Novion is a real estate investment trust that was first listed on the ASX in 1994. As 
at 31 December 2014, Novion had 36 retail assets under management. Prior to 
September 2014, Novion was known as CFS (Colonial First State) Retail Property 
Trust Group. Novion owns or co-owns 27 shopping centres, including a number of 
premium shopping centres with high end retail offerings such as Chadstone and 
Emporium Melbourne. Novion also owns four retail outlet centres that trade under 
the DFO brand name.  


 
Page 4 of 9 
Other industry participants  
Scentre Group 
19. Scentre Group (Scentre) was established following the merger of the Westfield 
Retail Trust and Westfield Group. Scentre controls all of Westfield’s retail property 
for Australia and New Zealand, including 38 Australian shopping centres 
containing 12,500 retailers, with assets totalling $28 billion.  
GPT Group 
20. GPT Group (GPT) is a property group that manages $15.2 billion of assets, 
comprising 15 shopping centres throughout Australia (including Highpoint and 
Melbourne Central). GPT recently completed $300 million worth of 
redevelopments at Highpoint and in March 2014 acquired a half stake in 
Northland Shopping Centre.  
Charter Hall Group 
21. Charter Hall Group (Charter Hall) operates over 90 retail properties in Australia, 
predominantly comprising supermarket-based shopping centres with a total retail 
portfolio worth $3.3 billion. 
Lend Lease Corporation 
22. Lend Lease Corporation (Lend Lease) is responsible for the management of 16 
regional and sub-regional shopping centres across Australia on behalf of 
investment funds and retail investment partners. The company’s retail portfolio is 
valued at $4.7 billion.  
SCA Property Group 
23. SCA Property Group (SCA) owns a diversified shopping centre portfolio across 
Australia, with supermarket retailers its main tenants. SCA manages 63 sub-
regional and neighbourhood shopping centres valued at $1.3 billion.  
Stockland Corporation Limited 
24. Stockland Corporation Limited (Stockland) has a portfolio of 40 retail centres 
valued at over $3 billion.  
Dexus Property Group 
25. Dexus Property Group (Dexus) manages a diverse $3.8 billion portfolio of retail 
properties located across the eastern seaboard of Australia. Dexus manages nine 
sub-regional shopping centres and investments in seven Westfield shopping 
centres. 
Other 
26. Other notable shopping centre owners and/or operators include AMP Capital 
Investors (AMP), which has an ownership interest in 15 Australian shopping 


 
Page 5 of 9 
centres, and QIC Limited (QIC) which has an ownership interest in 11 Australian 
shopping centres. 
Industry background 
Types of shopping centres 
27. Shopping centres are retail complexes owned by a single entity, in contrast to 
shopping areas, such as shopping strips, where retail space is owned by a 
number of owners.  
28. The owner (or a manager, which may be one of the owners) of a shopping centre 
decides the layout and composition of stores within the centre and leases retail 
space to a range of tenants that sell products and services. The owner (or 
manager) makes decisions about the overall retail mix and location of stores at the 
centre to maximise the total profit that it can derive from the centre. Shopping 
centre operators also invest in amenities such as car parking, children’s play 
areas, shuttle buses, information kiosks, WiFi and spaces for ATMs.  
29. The profit that can be earned (by the owner and by the retailers) will depend on, 
amongst other things, the strength of competition from other retail service 
providers, such as shopping centres and shopping strips. Decisions about 
whether to redevelop or renovate a shopping centre will be determined by whether 
such an investment will increase the overall profit that can be derived from the 
centre. 
Consumer behaviour  
30. Consumers’ shopping trips, and the products and services purchased during 
these trips, can be classified into several types. The ACCC considered that the 
types most relevant to the proposed merger are convenience shopping, 
comparison shopping, multi-purpose shopping and single-purpose shopping: 
 
convenience shopping – the purchase of low priced items with little 
differentiation between retail outlets, such as basic foodstuffs. Consumers 
generally do not shop around but instead buy from the closest (most 
convenient) shop;  
 
comparison shopping – the purchase of differentiated products such as 
clothing and footwear where consumers want to compare the offerings of a 
number of retailers and therefore shop around before completing their 
purchase. The consumer is likely to find it more convenient, and the costs 
of searching to be lower, shopping at a centre or retailer that has a variety 
of offerings;  
 
multi-purpose shopping – consumers frequently engage in more than 
one type of shopping on a single trip in order to save time. For example, 
consumers may purchase a newspaper, groceries and a new pair of shoes 
in a single shopping trip. Shopping centres provide greater convenience, 
and lower costs of searching, for multi-purpose shopping; and  
 
single-purpose shopping – consumers are more likely to undertake 
single-purpose shopping trips to retailers selling complex, relatively 
expensive goods—such as large furniture items and electrical goods—that 


 
Page 6 of 9 
are purchased by consumers after engaging in significant research. 
Consumers are frequently willing to travel longer distances to such retailers 
to purchase a single item because travel costs are a relatively small part of 
the total cost of the item and the potential savings from finding a better 
priced product are greater.  
Review timeline 
31. The following table outlines the timeline of key events in this matter. 
Date 
 Event 
4 February 2015 
 
 
25 February 2015 
 
1 April 2015 
 
 
15 April 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
26 May 2015 
ACCC commenced review under the Merger Review Process 
Guidelines. 
 
Closing date for submissions from interested parties. 
 
Original proposed decision date of 2 April delayed to allow the 
parties to provide more information to the ACCC. 
 
Federation Centres and Novion announced that they would 
engage with the ACCC in relation to the potential divestment 
of either Karingal Hub (50% owned by Federation Centres) or 
Bayside (a Novion owned asset), both of which are located in 
south east Melbourne. 
 
ACCC announced it would not oppose the proposed merger, 
subject to section 87B undertakings accepted by the ACCC. 
Market inquiries 
32. The ACCC received written submissions from and spoke with a range of market 
participants other than Federation Centres and Novion, including major national 
retailers, local retailers, national franchises and shopping centre owners. 
Market definition 
33. Shopping centres bring together two sets of customers—shoppers and retail 
tenants.  
34. Shopping centres compete to expand their base of shoppers by offering an 
attractive retail mix, better amenities, free or low-cost car parking or longer 
opening hours.  
35. Shopping centres also compete with each other to attract new retail tenants and 
retain existing retail tenants when leases are due for renewal. The greater the 
number of shoppers or the higher the value of the shoppers (in terms of the 
amount spent on shopping) that a shopping centre attracts, the more attractive the 
centre is to actual and potential retail tenants and the more rent a shopping centre 
owner will be able to charge. 


 
Page 7 of 9 
36. The ACCC considered the effect on competition in the following related markets: 
 
the supply of shopping centre amenities to shoppers; and  
 
the supply of retail space in shopping centres to retailers. 
37. In relation to the geographic scope of the relevant markets, the ACCC considered 
it appropriate, as a starting point, to identify competing shopping centres located 
within a radius of approximately 10 kilometres from the target centre and then vary 
this as appropriate, taking into consideration road configurations, traffic 
congestion and the willingness of customers to travel further to centres with a 
broader retail offering. 
38. The ACCC notes that the geographic scope of the relevant markets may be 
narrower than 10 kilometres. The ACCC considers that the precise geographic 
scope is not determinative with respect to this matter and has conducted the 
competition assessment of each relevant market on the conservative basis of 
considering competitors within a 10 kilometre radius of the target site. 
39. On this basis, the ACCC identified competition concerns in the area surrounding 
Frankston where the Bayside and Karingal shopping centres, owned by Novion 
and Federation Centres respectively, are the only multi-purpose shopping centres 
of any significant scale within the relevant geographic market (and, in fact, within 
approximately 20 kilometres of the Frankston CBD in Victoria). The ACCC defined 
this market as being the South East Melbourne market. 
Likely future with and without the proposed merger 
40. Section 50 of the Act prohibits mergers or acquisitions that would have the effect, 
or be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. In 
assessing a proposed acquisition pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC 
considers the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future competitive 
environment post-acquisition if the acquisition proceeds (the “with” position) to the 
likely future competitive environment if the acquisition does not proceed (the 
“without” position) to assist in determining whether the proposed acquisition is 
likely to substantially lessen competition in any relevant market. 
41. The ACCC considered that the likely future without the proposed merger would be 
the status quo, where Federation Centres and Novion would continue to operate 
and compete as separate entities.  
Competition analysis 
South East Melbourne market 
Customers 
42. The ACCC considered that the proposed merger had the potential to substantially 
lessen competition in the South East Melbourne market for the supply of shopping 
centre amenities to customers. 
43. At the time of the review, Federation Centres and Novion were each other’s 
closest competitor for shoppers in the South East Melbourne market. Novion 
owned and operated Bayside Shopping Centre in Frankston’s regional business 


 
Page 8 of 9 
district, and Federation Centres had a 50% interest and managed the Karingal 
Hub Shopping Centre, located 4.4 km from Bayside. 
44. Bayside and Karingal are the only shopping centres of any scale within 
approximately a 30 minute drive of Frankston. The only other shopping centre in 
the area classified as larger than a neighbourhood/supermarket centre is 
Somerville Shopping Centre. Somerville is a significantly smaller centre with a 
Coles, a Target and approximately 30 specialty stores in a single-storey, open air 
location adjacent to a non-enclosed parking facility.  
45. Other shopping centres in the area are markedly smaller in size and did not have 
the equivalent amenities or retail offering that customers value when engaging in 
multi-purpose shopping. The ACCC considered that it was unlikely that any of 
these shopping centres would pose a significant competitive constraint on the 
merged entity post-acquisition. 
46. The nearest major shopping centres to the centres owned by the merger parties in 
South East Melbourne is Southland shopping centre – located 25 kilometres from 
the Frankston CBD in Cheltenham, and Fountain Gate – located 29 kilometres 
away in Narre Warren. The ACCC considered that these shopping centres are not 
within the relevant geographic market. 
47. The ACCC considered that the loss of competition between Bayside and Karingal 
may reduce the incentive of the merged entity to redevelop and improve the 
amenities at either or both shopping centres, thereby reducing the quality of each 
centre’s offering compared to the future without the acquisition. 
Retailers 
48. The ACCC also considered that the proposed merger may lessen competition in 
the South East Melbourne market for the supply of retail space in shopping 
centres to retailers.  
49. The ACCC considered that a loss of competition between the merger parties to 
attract shoppers to their respective shopping centres in the South East Melbourne 
market would in turn reduce the need for the shopping centres to compete to 
attract and retain retailers (who would in turn attract shoppers). The absence of 
alternative regional and sub-regional shopping centres in the South East 
Melbourne market, and the limited ability of retailers to substitute to other retail 
spaces in the local area (for example, shopping strips), may enable the merged 
entity to extract higher rents from retailers seeking retail space compared with the 
likely scenario absent the proposed merger. This loss of competition to attract 
retail tenants could also manifest itself in less favourable non-price terms for 
retailers (e.g. less flexibility in lease agreements, or a reduction in the quality of 
facilities that benefit retailers).  
Other markets 
50. As outlined above, there are seven other regions where the merger parties 
overlap based on a 10 kilometre radius from a target shopping centre – South 
West Perth, Brisbane, the Melbourne CBD, East Melbourne, West Melbourne, 
Adelaide and Geelong. 


 
Page 9 of 9 
51. The ACCC considered that in these regions there appear to be sufficient 
alternatives to the merger parties that would act as a competitive constraint and 
therefore competition concerns are less likely. 
52. Additionally, in some regions including West Melbourne, the Melbourne CBD and 
Geelong, the ACCC considered that there was minimal competitive overlap 
between the parties due to the distance between the parties’ shopping centres 
and therefore the proposed acquisition was unlikely to substantially lessen 
competition in those regions. 
Undertakings 
53. In order to address the ACCC’s competition concerns, the parties provided court 
enforceable undertakings under section 87B of the Act to divest either Federation 
Centres’ 50% interest in the Karingal Hub shopping centre or Novion’s 100% 
interest in the Bayside shopping centre to an ACCC approved purchaser. 
54. The ACCC considered that the divestiture of either of these shopping centres 
would restore the pre-merger position whereby two independent parties compete 
for the supply of shopping centre amenities to customers, and the supply of retail 
space in shopping centres to retailers in South East Melbourne. On this basis the 
undertakings were considered likely to address the competition concerns and 
ensure that existing competition in the market is maintained.  
Conclusion  
55. The ACCC concluded that the proposed merger was likely to raise significant 
competition concerns in the South East Melbourne markets for the supply of 
shopping centre amenities to shoppers and for the supply of retail space in 
shopping centres to retailers, as it would bring together the only two shopping 
centres of significant size in the Frankston area. The ACCC did not identify 
competition concerns in any other market. 
56. The section 87B undertakings accepted by the ACCC compel the merger parties 
to divest one of these shopping centres to an effective independent competitor in 
the event that the merger proceeds, thereby alleviating the competition concerns 
identified by the ACCC in the South East Melbourne market.  
57. Taking into account the section 87B undertakings, the ACCC concluded that the 
proposed merger was unlikely to substantially lessen competition.  
 
