 
 
1 
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
tel: (02) 6243 1368
mergers@accc.gov.au
www.accc.gov.au
Our ref: 
IM-70007 
Contact officer: 
Madeleine Houghton 
Contact phone: 
(02) 9230 3816 
1 March 2019 
Dear Interested Party 
Request for submissions: APLNG’s proposed acquisition of Origin’s Ironbark 
gas project 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
the proposed acquisition of Origin Energy ATP 788P Pty Ltd (Ironbark) by Australia Pacific 
LNG Pty Limited (APLNG) (the proposed acquisition). 
Ironbark holds exploration tenements which form a proposed project for the development of 
gas reserves in an area north of the town of Tara, Queensland, in the Surat Basin. APLNG 
is a joint venture between Origin Energy Limited (Origin Energy), ConocoPhillips Australia 
Pacific LNG Pty Ltd (ConocoPhillips) and Sinopec Australia Pacific LNG Pty Limited 
(Sinopec) producing coal seam gas for supply to domestic customers and for use by its 
liquefied natural gas (LNG) facility. Further details regarding the acquisition can be found at 
Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact on competition.  In particular, we are 
seeking your views on: 
 
any impact on domestic gas prices 
 
whether APLNG and any likely developer of Ironbark are likely to compete closely in 
future absent the acquisition 
 
any impact on the timing of development of gas reserves and resources 
 
whether LNG producers, such as APLNG, compete with other gas users for the 
acquisition of gas.  
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in 
section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions 


 
 
2 
that are likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
Please provide your response by no later than 5pm on 15 March 2019. Responses may 
be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: Submission re: APLNG/Ironbark gas 
project - attention Madeleine Houghton / Andrew Sudol. If you would like to arrange a time 
to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any questions about this letter, please 
contact Madeleine Houghton on (02) 9230 3816 or Andrew Sudol on (02) 9230 9119. 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public 
Mergers Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We will not 
disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by 
law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or during court proceedings) or 
in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010.  Where the 
ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, the ACCC will notify you in advance 
where possible so that you may have an opportunity to be heard.  Therefore, if the 
information provided to the ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our 
Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
Tom Leuner 
General Manager 
Merger Investigations 


 
 
3 
Attachment A 
 
Ironbark gas project 
 
Ironbark is a wholly Origin-owned proposed coal seam gas project located in the Surat 
Basin. It is in the exploration and appraisal stage. It is not currently producing nor is there 
gas processing infrastructure in place. Origin Energy estimates Ironbark has 129 PJ of 2P 
reserves and 192 PJ of 3P reserves. In August 2018, Origin announced it had entered 
Stage 1 Front End Engineering Design while also assessing alternate strategic options for 
the asset.  
 
As part of the proposed acquisition and in its role as upstream operator for APLNG, Origin 
will be responsible for the development of Ironbark.   
 
Figure 1: Ironbark location 
 
Source: Origin Energy, Presentation – 2017 Investor Day, 28 November 2017.  
 
APLNG 
 
APLNG is a joint venture between Origin (37.5%), ConocoPhillips (37.5%) and Sinopec 
(25%). It has significant gas tenements in the Surat and Bowen basins and processes CSG 
into LNG for export from its facility near Gladstone, Queensland. It is also the largest 
supplier of gas to domestic customers. In 2018, it supplied close to 30 per cent of total east 
coast gas demand.  
 
 


 
 
4 
Attachment B 
 
1. Please provide a brief description of your business or organisation.  
2. Please outline the reasons for your interest in the proposed acquisition, including 
any commercial relationship/s with, or competition with, either of APLNG or 
Origin/Ironbark.  
3. Are APLNG and Origin/Ironbark likely to compete in future, absent the proposed 
acquisition? 
4. What is the likely timing for development of Ironbark with and without the 
proposed acquisition?  
5. Please discuss whether the proposed acquisition is likely to impact the timing of 
development of other APLNG tenements. Please explain why or why not.    
6. Please discuss the ability of competing suppliers to acquire, explore and develop 
prospective gas tenements in Queensland.   
7. Please discuss whether, and to what extent, the proposed acquisition is likely to 
impact domestic gas prices. 
8. Please discuss how the development of Ironbark is likely to affect domestic gas 
prices with and without the proposed acquisition. 
9. Please provide any additional information or comments, or identify other 
competition issues, that you consider relevant to the ACCC’s consideration of the 
proposed acquisition under section 50 of the Act.  
 
