Undertaking to the
Australian Competition and 
Consumer Commission
Given under section 87B by
OneSteel Limited


wwpm A0108041740v6 205168323 
 5.2.2007
Page 1
1.
Background 
1.1
OneSteel and Smorgon each operate as steel manufacturers and distributors in Australia.  
OneSteel and Smorgon have entered into an agreement under which OneSteel will 
purchase all of the assets and liabilities of Smorgon except for Smorgon's steel and metals 
distribution businesses in exchange for OneSteel shares (the New Transaction).  
Immediately upon receiving the OneSteel shares, Smorgon will distribute those shares to 
its shareholders.  Smorgon will remain a separate and independent listed company, 
continuing to operate its steel and metals distribution business.  
1.2
The Commission has expressed a concern about anti-dumping applications made under 
Part XVB, Division 2 of the Customs Act 1901 which are unsuccessful.  The Commission is 
concerned that such applications may have an effect on competition in Australian 
manufactured steel products markets.  
1.3
The Commission has also indicated that it wishes to ensure the independence of Smorgon 
from OneSteel following implementation of the New Transaction.  
1.4
OneSteel has offered the undertakings set out in this document for the purpose of 
addressing the Commission's concerns.  
2.
Commencement and Duration of Undertakings
2.1
These Undertakings comes into effect on the Implementation Date.  
2.2
These Undertakings will cease to have effect when the time period specified in clause 3.1 
has expired.  
3.
Anti-dumping applications 
3.1
For three years from the Implementation Date:
(a)
if OneSteel lodges or supports an anti-dumping application under Part XVB, 
Division 2 of the Customs Act 1901 in relation to the importation of merchant bar, 
reinforcing rod and bar, bar for grinding media or low carbon wire products into 
Australia by any person; and 
(b)
Customs initiates an investigation; and
(c)
the application is unsuccessful,
then OneSteel must send by registered airmail an executed deed in the form contained in 
Schedule 1 to these Undertakings to each Eligible Importer within five Business Days of:
(d)
the date on which any appeal from a decision of Customs or the Minister of 
Customs is determined; or
(e)
the expiry of the time period in which such an appeal may be lodged.  


wwpm A0108041740v6 205168323 
 5.2.2007
Page 2
3.2
An anti-dumping application will be unsuccessful for the purposes of clause 3.1 only if:
(a)
at the conclusion of an investigation Customs decides to terminate the entire 
investigation on grounds other than the application of section 269TDA (1)(b)(ii) and 
(3) of the Customs Act or the Minister of Customs decides not to impose any anti-
dumping measures due to a failure to establish dumping or material injury; 
(b)
the decision of Customs or the Minister of Customs referred to in paragraph (a) is 
not overturned on appeal; and
(c)
there have been no price undertakings accepted by Customs.  
3.3
For the avoidance of doubt, clause 3.1 does not apply to:
(a)
anti-dumping applications lodged prior to 19 December 2006;
(b)
applications seeking a review of variable factors in relation to anti-dumping 
measures; and
(c)
appeals in relation to anti-dumping applications made prior to the Implementation 
Date.  
4.
Smorgon's steel and metals distribution business
OneSteel undertakes that from the Implementation Date, OneSteel will take all steps open to it to 
ensure that none of the directors of Smorgon or its Related Bodies Corporate:
(a)
is a director, officer or employee of OneSteel or its Related Bodies Corporate; or
(b)
receives any payment or services from OneSteel or its Related Bodies Corporate, other 
than as a supplier, customer or shareholder of OneSteel or its Related Bodies Corporate.  
5.
Compliance with these Undertakings
5.1
Onesteel acknowledges that these Undertakings are court-enforceable in accordance with 
section 87B of the Trade Practices Act.  
5.2
In performing its obligations under these Undertakings, OneSteel will do everything 
reasonably within its power to ensure that its performance of those obligations is done in a 
manner which is consistent with promoting the purpose and object of these Undertakings.  
5.3
OneSteel will not be liable for any failure to perform an obligation under these Undertakings 
if the failure is due to a Force Majeure.  
5.4
If OneSteel is unable to comply with its obligations as set out in these Undertakings due to 
a Force Majeure or changed circumstances beyond its control, or if changed circumstances 
otherwise make modification of these Undertakings desirable, then OneSteel and the 
Commission must review these Undertakings and negotiate in good faith in relation to the 
amendment or revocation of these Undertakings, having regard to the need to maintain 


wwpm A0108041740v6 205168323 
 5.2.2007
Page 3
competition in the markets in Australia in which OneSteel operates.  
5.5
OneSteel will promptly provide the Commission with any information which the 
Commission reasonably requests in relation to compliance with these Undertakings.  
6.
Acknowledgments
6.1
These Undertakings do not prevent the Commission from taking enforcement action at any 
time during or after the duration of these Undertakings in respect of any breach by 
OneSteel of these Undertakings.  
6.2
OneSteel acknowledges that the Commission will publish these Undertakings on its 
Section 87B Undertakings Register and that the Commission may publicly refer to these 
Undertakings.  
7.
Costs
All costs incurred by OneSteel either providing information to the Commission or in responding to 
Commission enquiries as required by these Undertakings are to be paid by OneSteel.  
8.
Definitions
The following definitions apply:
Business Day means a day on which trading banks are open for business in Melbourne and 
Sydney, Australia, but does not include any Saturday, Sunday or public holiday; 
Commission means the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission; 
Customs means Australian Customs Service; 
Eligible Importer means an importer of the Goods Under Consideration in an anti-dumping 
application with import volumes exceeding 1000 tonnes over the Customs investigation period, and 
in respect of whom Customs has published an importer visit report indicating that the importer has 
supplied the requisite information to Customs during the investigation; 
Force Majeure means any event or cause outside the reasonable control of the affected party 
(including strikes or labour disputes, a governmental restraint, directive or requirement) and which 
could not have been avoided or overcome by that party by the exercise of reasonable care or due 
diligence; 
Implementation Date means the date on which the New Transaction is implemented; 
New Transaction means the purchase by OneSteel of all of the assets and liabilities of Smorgon 
except for Smorgon's steel and metals distribution business in exchange for OneSteel shares 
pursuant to an agreement entered into on 18 December 2006;
OneSteel means OneSteel Limited (ABN 63 004 410 833); 
Related Bodies Corporate has the meaning given to that term by section 50 of the Corporations 
Act 2001 (Cth);


wwpm A0108041740v6 205168323 
 5.2.2007
Page 4
RHS means rectangular hollow sections;
Smorgon means Smorgon Steel Group Limited (ABN 38 082 181 726).  
9.
Interpretation
9.1
The following rules of interpretation apply:
(a)
the singular includes the plural, and vice versa;
(b)
referring to anything after the words include, includes or including does not limit 
what else might be included; and
(c)
a reference to "these Undertakings" is a reference to all the provisions of this 
document. 
9.2
In the interpretation of a clause of these Undertakings, a construction that would promote 
the purpose or object underlying these Undertakings (whether that purpose of object is 
expressly stated in the Undertakings or not) shall be preferred to a construction that would
not promote the purpose or object.  
9.3.
In the interpretation of these Undertakings, material not forming part of these Undertakings
may be considered if that material is capable of assisting in the ascertainment of the 
meaning or context of a clause of these Undertakings in order to:
(a)
confirm the meaning of a clause is the ordinary meaning conveyed by the text of 
the clause taking into account its context in the Undertakings and the competition 
concerns intended to be addressed by the Undertakings and the clause in 
question; or
(b)
determine the meaning of a clause when the ordinary meaning conveyed by the 
text of the clause taking into account its context in the Undertakings and the 
purpose or object underlying the Undertakings leads to a result that does not 
promote the purpose or object underlying the Undertakings.  
9.4.
In determining whether consideration should be given to any material in accordance with 
clause 9.3, or in considering any weight to be given to any such material, regard shall be 
had, in addition, to any other relevant matters, to:
(a)
the effect that reliance on the ordinary meaning conveyed by the text of the clause 
would have (taking into account its context in the Undertakings and whether that 
meaning promotes the purpose or object of the Undertakings); and
(b)
the need to ensure that the result of the Undertakings prevents any substantial 
lessening of competition which the New Transaction would otherwise cause.  
10.
Notices
10.1
Any notice or other communication to the Commission pursuant to these Undertakings 
must be sent to:
General Manager – Mergers and Assets Sales Branch


wwpm A0108041740v6 205168323 
 5.2.2007
Page 5
Australian Competition and Consumer Commission
470 Northbourne Avenue
DICKSON ACT 2602
Facsimile (02) 6243 1199
or to any other address which the Commission subsequently notifies to OneSteel.  
10.2
Any notice or other communication to OneSteel pursuant to these Undertakings must be 
sent to:
Company Secretary 
OneSteel Limited
Level 40, 259 George Street
SYDNEY NSW 2000
Facsimile: (02) 9239 6608
or to any other address which OneSteel subsequently notifies to the Commission.  


wwpm A0108041740v6 205168323 
 5.2.2007
Page 6
Schedule 1
Reimbursement Deed
OneSteel Limited
[name of importer]


wwpm A0108041740v6 205168323 
 5.2.2007
Page 7
Date
[date]
Parties
1.
OneSteel Limited (ACN 004 410 833) of 259 George Street, Sydney NSW 2000
(OneSteel)
2.
[name of importer] [address] (the Importer)
Recitals
A
On [date] the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission accepted pursuant 
to section 87B of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth) an undertaking proffered by 
Onesteel (the Undertaking) which required OneSteel to execute a deed in the 
following terms in favour of certain importers if OneSteel lodged or participated in an 
unsuccessful anti-dumping application.  
B
On [date of application] OneSteel participated in an anti-dumping application in 
respect of the importation of merchant bar, reinforcing rod and bar, bar for grinding 
media, low carbon wire or structural pipe and RHS products pursuant to Part XVB, 
Division 2 of the Customs Act 1901 (the Application) which was unsuccessful as 
defined by clause 3.2 of the Undertaking.  As a result, Onesteel is required to enter 
into a deed in the following terms with the Importer.  
It is agreed as follows.
1.
Reimbursement
1.1
If the Importer wishes to obtain reimbursement of Expenses, the Importer must provide to 
OneSteel a written claim for reimbursement of Expenses within 30 days of the date of 
OneSteel executing this Deed, providing details of the Expenses, tax invoices and receipts 
to verify the Expenses claimed and any other information in respect of the Expenses which 
is reasonably requested by OneSteel .  
1.2
OneSteel must pay to the Importer the amount of the Expenses claimed by the Importer up 
to the Maximum Amount within 30 days of receipt of the information required by clause 1.1, 
unless OneSteel seeks verification of the Expenses claimed in accordance with clause 2.  
2.
Verification of Expenses
2.1
OneSteel may notify the Importer that OneSteel requires verification of the Expenses within 
ten Business Days of receipt of the information required by clause 1.1.  Within five days of 
giving notice to the Importer that verification is required, OneSteel must appoint an 


wwpm A0108041740v6 205168323 
 5.2.2007
Page 8
independent auditor who is a partner in a reputable accounting firm which does not audit 
the accounts of OneSteel to review and, if appropriate, certify that all or part of the 
Expenses claimed by the Importer:
(a)
relate to the Application; 
(b)
were reasonably and properly incurred by the Importer; and
(c)
have been paid by the Importer, 
and to provide a copy of any certificate to both OneSteel and the Importer.  
2.2
If a certificate is issued by the auditor appointed pursuant to clause 2.1, OneSteel must pay 
the Expenses which have been certified, up to the Maximum Amount within ten Business 
Days of receipt of the certificate.  
2.3
If the auditor either does not issue a certificate pursuant to clause 2.1 or issues a certificate 
in respect of only part of the Expenses, having formed the view that all or part of the 
Expenses claimed by the Importer did not relate to the Application or were not reasonably 
and properly incurred by the Importer or have not been paid, the auditor must provide this 
view in writing to both OneSteel and the Importer.  OneSteel will have no obligation to 
make any payment in respect of those Expenses which in the auditor's view did not relate 
to the Application or were not reasonably and properly incurred by the Importer or have not 
been paid.  
2.4
Neither party may challenge the conclusions made by the auditor pursuant to clause 2.1, 
unless a manifest error has been made by the auditor.  
2.5
The costs of the auditor must be paid by OneSteel if the auditor certifies that all of the 
Expenses claimed by the Importer relate to the Application, were reasonably and properly 
incurred by the Importer and have been paid.  In all other cases, the Importer must pay the 
costs of the auditor and these costs will be deducted from any amount otherwise payable to 
the Importer by OneSteel pursuant to this deed and paid by OneSteel to the auditor.  
3.
Definitions and Interpretation
3.1
Definitions
The following definitions apply unless the context requires otherwise.
ACCC means the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission;
Application means the anti-dumping application in respect of [product] pursuant to Part 
XVB, Division 2 of the Customs Act 1901 in which OneSteel has participated; 
Business Day means a day on which trading banks are open for business in Melbourne 
and Sydney, Australia, but does not include any Saturday, Sunday or public holiday; 
Eligible Importer means an importer of the Goods Under Consideration in the Application 
with import volumes exceeding 1000 tonnes over the Customs investigation period, and in 
respect of whom Customs has published an importer visit report indicating that the importer 
has supplied the requisite information to Customs during the investigation; 


wwpm A0108041740v6 205168323 
 5.2.2007
Page 9
Expenses means external legal and external consultant expenses incurred by the Importer 
in respect of the Application excluding GST;
GST has the meaning given by the GST Law;
GST Law has the meaning given by the A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 
1999 (Cth);
Importer means [name of importer];
Maximum Amount means the lesser of A$50,000 and the figure which results from 
dividing A$400,000 by the total number of Eligible Importers who submit claims for 
expenses in respect of the Application;
OneSteel means OneSteel Limited (ABN 63 004 4120 833);
Undertaking means the undertaking proffered by OneSteel and accepted by the ACCC 
under section 87B of the Trade Practices Act on [date] in respect of future Applications.  
3.2
Interpretation
Headings are for convenience only and do not affect interpretation.  The following rules 
apply unless the context requires otherwise.
(a)
The singular includes the plural, and the converse also applies.
(b)
A gender includes all genders.
(c)
If a word or phrase is defined, its other grammatical forms have a corresponding 
meaning.
(d)
A reference to a person includes a corporation, trust, partnership, unincorporated 
body or other entity, whether or not it comprises a separate legal entity.
(e)
A reference to a clause is a reference to a clause of this Deed.  
(f)
A reference to an agreement or document (including a reference to this Deed is to 
the agreement or document as amended, supplemented, novated or replaced, 
except to the extent prohibited by this Deed or that other agreement or document, 
and includes the recitals, schedules and annexures to that agreement or 
document.
(g)
A reference to writing includes any method of representing or reproducing words, 
figures, drawings or symbols in a visible and tangible form and includes a 
communication by electronic  mail.
(h)
A reference to legislation or to a provision of legislation includes a modification or 
re-enactment of it, a legislative provision substituted for it and a regulation or 
statutory instrument issued under it.
(i)
A reference to conduct includes an omission, statement or undertaking, whether or 
not in writing.
(j)
A reference to an agreement includes any undertaking, deed, agreement and 
legally enforceable arrangement, whether or not in writing, and a reference to a 
document includes an agreement (as so defined) in writing and any certificate, 
notice, instrument and document of any kind.


wwpm A0108041740v6 205168323 
 5.2.2007
Page 10
(k)
A reference to dollars and $ is to Australian currency.
(l)
All references to time are to the time in Sydney, Australia.
3.3
Consents or approval
If the doing of any act, matter or thing under this Deed is dependent on the consent or 
approval of a party or is within the discretion of a party, the consent or approval may be 
given or the discretion may be exercised conditionally or unconditionally or withheld by the 
party in its absolute discretion unless expressly provided otherwise.
4.
Notices
Any notice, demand, consent or other communication (a Notice) given or made under this 
Deed:
(a)
must be in writing and signed by a person duly authorised by the sender;
(b)
must be addressed and delivered to the intended recipient by registered mail or fax 
to the address or fax number below or the address or fax number last notified by 
the intended recipient to the sender after the date of this Deed:
(i)
to OneSteel 
Attention: General Counsel
Address:  OneSteel Limited, Level 40, 259 
George Street Sydney NSW 2000 
Australia 
Fax No: 61 2 9239 6608
(ii)
to the Importer
[*]
Address: [*]
Fax No: [*]; and
(c)
will be taken to be duly given or made when delivered or received at the above fax 
number or address.  If delivery or receipt occurs on a day that is not a business 
day in the place to which the Notice is sent or is later than 4pm (local time) at that 
place, it will be taken to have been duly given or made at the commencement of 
business on the next business day in that place.
5.
Entire Agreement
This Deed contains the entire agreement between the parties with respect to its subject 
matter.  It sets out the only conduct relied on by the parties and supersedes all earlier
conduct and prior agreements and understandings between the parties in connection with 
its subject matter.
6.
Amendment
This Deed may be amended only by another Deed executed by all the parties.


wwpm A0108041740v6 205168323 
 5.2.2007
Page 11
7.
Assignment
The Importer cannot assign, charge, encumber or otherwise deal with any of its rights or 
obligations under this Deed or attempt or purport to do so, without the prior written consent 
of OneSteel Limited.  The consent of OneSteel may be withheld in its absolute discretion 
without giving any reason for doing so.
8.
No Waiver
A failure to exercise or a delay in exercising any right, power or remedy under this Deed 
does not operate as a waiver.  A single or partial exercise or waiver of the exercise of any 
right, power or remedy does not preclude any other or further exercise of that or any other 
right, power or remedy.  A waiver is not valid or binding on the party granting that waiver 
unless made in writing.  
9.
Costs and Stamp Duty
Each party must bear its own costs arising out of the negotiation, preparation and 
execution of this Deed.  All stamp duty (including fines, penalties and interest) payable on 
or in connection with this Deed and any instrument executed under or any transaction 
evidenced by this Deed must be borne by OneSteel.  
10.
Governing Law and Jurisdiction
This Deed is governed by the laws of Victoria.  Each party submits to the jurisdiction of 
courts exercising jurisdiction there, and waives any right to claim that those courts are an 
inconvenient forum.  
11.
Counterparts
This Deed may be executed in any number of counterparts.  All counterparts together will 
be taken to constitute one instrument.


wwpm A0108041740v6 205168323 
 5.2.2007
Page 12
Executed and delivered as a Deed in [Sydney, New South Wales]
Executed as a deed in accordance with 
section 127 of the Corporations Act 2001 by 
Onesteel Limited:
Director Signature
Director Signature
Print Name
Print Name
Executed as a deed by [name of importer]:
Director Signature
Director Signature
Print Name
Print Name


wwpm A0108041740v6 205168323 
 5.2.2007
Page 13
Signed for OneSteel Limited (ABN 63 004 
410 833) by:
Director Signature
Director/Secretary Signature
Print Name
Print Name
Date: 
This Undertaking offered by OneSteel Limited (ABN 63 004 410 833) is accepted by the Australian 
Competition and Consumer Commission pursuant to section 87B of the Trade Practices Act 1974
Graeme Julian Samuel
Chairman
Date: 
