 
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
tel: (02) 6243 1368 
mergers@accc.gov.au
www.accc.gov.au
Our ref: IM-72907 
 
 
12 June 2025 
Dear Interested Party 
Re: ACCC seeking your views: Adbri’s proposed acquisition of SA Premix  
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
the proposed acquisition by Adbri Pty Ltd (Adbri), through its subsidiary Adbri Concrete 
and Quarries SA Pty Ltd, of 100 per cent of the share capital in each of Premix Concrete 
S.A. Pty. Ltd., Seelander Quarries Pty Ltd, Clinton Sands Pty Ltd, Clinton Quarries Pty Ltd 
and Adelaide Industrial Sands Pty Ltd (AIS) (together, SA Premix) (the Proposed 
Acquisition). 
Adbri and SA Premix both manufacture and supply ready-mix concrete (RMX) and 
hard rock and sand quarry products (aggregates). Further details are provided at 
Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact on competition. In particular, we are 
seeking your views on: 
• 
how closely Adbri and SA Premix compete with each other in the supply of RMX 
and aggregates in South Australia  
• 
the impact of the Proposed Acquisition on the price and/or service quality in the 
supply of RMX and aggregates 
• 
whether customers would have competitive alternative suppliers for RMX and 
aggregates post Proposed Acquisition. 
• 
whether the Proposed Acquisition would increase Adbri’s ability or incentive to 
foreclose rival RMX producers access to any inputs. 
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
Please provide your response by 27 June 2025 via email to mergers@accc.gov.au with the 
title: Submission re: Adbri – SA Premix. If you require more time to respond, please let us 


know. 
If you would like to arrange a time to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any 
questions about this letter, please contact mergers@accc.gov.au. 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public 
Mergers Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC treats sensitive information it receives during a merger review as confidential, 
and will not publish your submission. We will not disclose submissions to third parties 
(except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of 
information legislation or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the 
Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, we will notify you in advance where possible so that you have an opportunity to 
be heard. Therefore please clearly indicate if any information you provide is confidential. 
Our Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on 
confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
Morag Bond 
General Manager  
Merger Investigations  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
Attachment A 
The proposed acquisition 
 
Adbri proposes to acquire 100 per cent of the share capital in each of Premix 
Concrete S.A., Seelander Quarries, Clinton Sands, Clinton Quarries and AIS 
(together, SA Premix).  
 
The acquirer – Adbri  
 
Adbri is a privately owned Australian company. Adbri is owned by CRH ANZ Pty Ltd 
(approximately 57% shareholding) and Barro Group and their affiliates 
(approximately 43% shareholding). Adbri manufactures, imports and supplies various 
building materials across Australia, including clinker, cement, quicklime, aggregates, 
RMX, concrete masonry products and supplementary cementitious materials such as 
fly ash, and slag.  
 
Adbri has 12 RMX sites in the greater Adelaide area, located in Gawler, Burton, 
Gillman, Dry Creek, Welland, Lonsdale,1 Littlehampton,2 Murray Bridge, Strathalbyn, 
Sellicks Hill and Victor Harbour. Adbri currently self-supplies cement for these RMX 
sites, via its Adbri Cement business which has production facilities in South Australia.  
 
Adbri operates two hard rock quarries in the greater Adelaide area (located in 
Penrice and Sellicks). Adbri also operates two sand quarries in the greater Adelaide 
area (located in Clinton and Price). 
 
Adbri also operates a concrete masonry business, Adbri Masonry. Adbri Masonry 
has manufacturing facilities in all Australian states except WA. 
 
The target – SA Premix 
 
SA Premix is a privately owned Australian business with operations based in South 
Australia. SA Premix operates concrete (RMX), aggregates, including hard rock 
quarry, sand quarry and industrial sands businesses.  
SA Premix has four RMX sites located in Gawler, Callington, Lonsdale and Salisbury. 
SA Premix also operates a hard rock quarry in Penrice and a sand producing quarry 
on the Yorke Peninsula.  
Through AIS, SA Premix operates a sand processing plant in Salisbury. AIS 
specialises in the drying and processing of silica sand and gravel products, producing 
silica sand for the speciality, dry-mix, filtration and construction industry. 
 
 
 
 
1 Adbri has two RMX sites in Lonsdale, one located at 37 Roxburgh Avenue, Lonsdale SA 
5160 and another located at 3 Waddikee Road, Lonsdale SA 5160. 
2 Currently operates as a mobile batch plant 


Attachment B 
1. Please provide a brief description of your business or organisation.   
2. Please outline the reasons for your interest in the proposed acquisition, including 
any commercial relationship(s) with Adbri or SA Premix. This will help us better 
understand your views.  
Areas of overlap 
The ACCC understands that in South Australia, Adbri and SA Premix overlap in the 
supply of RMX and aggregates, including both hard rock and sand quarry products.  
The ACCC notes that aggregates and cement are key inputs into RMX production. 
Adbri supplies cement in South Australia, but SA Premix does not. 
In answering the questions below, please consider where relevant cement, 
aggregates, RMX and any other products which Adbri and SA Premix compete to 
supply.   
Questions specifically for customers of cement, aggregates and/or RMX 
3. How closely do Adbri and SA Premix currently compete in the supply of each of 
aggregates and RMX in South Australia, taking into account factors such as: 
a) geographic location of the relevant quarries and/or plants,  
b) price, including specials, discounts and promotions 
c) quality and characteristics of products supplied including customer type 
served and quality of service/reputation 
4. Identify and describe the main competitors of Adbri and/ or SA Premix in the 
supply of cement, aggregates and/or RMX in South Australia.   
5. Describe the geographic area over which aggregates are generally sourced in 
South Australia. Can you source these products from further away in response to 
a price increase? In your response, please describe the transport costs and other 
relevant factors which influence these decisions.  
6. For RMX customers, what options would you consider as alternatives to SA 
Premix’s RMX sites located in Gawler, Callington, Lonsdale and Salisbury? 
Please explain whether some alternatives may be more or less viable due to 
delivery time or distance. 
7. Identify and provide details of the volume and characteristics of any product you 
acquire from Adbri, SA Premix or AIS. If you acquire cement from Adbri, provide 
details of your current requirements. 
8. Describe the differences between cement suppliers in terms of price, quality and 
product offered.  
9. Is it easy to switch cement, aggregate or RMX suppliers? Are there any 
significant barriers to switching supplier? If possible, provide examples of 
previous occasions where you have switched suppliers. 


Questions specifically for competing suppliers of cement, aggregates and/or 
RMX 
10. Describe the type/s of cement that your company supplies (if you supply cement) 
and explain whether this cement is being supplied for your own RMX operations 
or whether it is supplied to third parties.   
11. To what extent do the products supplied by Adbri and SA Premix face 
competition from suppliers outside of South Australia (either domestically or 
internationally)? Please identify the parties who currently import cement, or 
aggregates and their estimated supply capacity, if known. Are there any barriers 
which may prevent imports expanding? For example, price differences, product 
range, quality, shipping costs, supply risks and lead times.     
12. Are customers able to switch suppliers for cement, aggregates and RMX, and if 
so, what are the factors which influence the decision to switch? 
13. Describe barriers a business may face in commencing or increasing supply of 
cement, aggregates or RMX in South Australia (for example, investment costs, 
regulatory barriers or existing long-term contracts).  
14. Describe how prices of cement, aggregates and RMX are determined, and 
provide details of the factors that influence the prices, such as volumes 
purchased and international import prices of the products and/or their inputs.  
Other information or competition issues 
15. Please provide any additional information or comments that you consider relevant 
to the ACCC’s consideration of the Proposed Acquisition. 
 
