 
 
 
Land of the Ngunnawal people
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
Tel 02 6243 1111 
Fax 02 6243 1199
www.accc.gov.au
Our ref: 
IM-72581 
 
17 June 2025 
 
Dear Interested Party, 
Re: ACCC seeking your views: merger between Hino Motors Limited and Mitsubishi 
Fuso Truck and Bus Corporation   
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
the proposed merger between Hino Motors Limited (Hino) and Mitsubishi Fuso Truck and 
Bus Corporation (Mitsubishi Fuso) (the Proposed Acquisition). 
Hino and Mitsubishi Fuso each manufacture a wide range of trucks and buses primarily in 
Japan. Vehicles are sold to customers in Australia through a network of dealerships. In 
Australia, the parties overlap in the supply of light commercial vehicles (LCV), medium duty 
trucks (MDT) and heavy-duty trucks (HDT). There is also potential overlap in the supply of 
buses in Australia. Further details about Hino, Mitsubishi Fuso, the Proposed Acquisition and 
the overlap between the merger parties is provided at Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact that the Proposed Acquisition would 
have on competition. In particular, we are seeking your views on: 
• 
the extent to which Hino and Mitsubishi Fuso compete with each other in Australia  
• 
the likely impact on prices and service quality in the supply of LCV, MDT and HDT in 
Australia  
• 
the competitive alternative suppliers of LCV, MDT and HDT in Australia and potential 
new entrants.  
Further issues you may wish to address are provided at Attachment B. 
This matter is public, and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test the ACCC applies when assessing mergers and acquisitions is in section 50 of 
the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are likely to 
have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market.  
Please provide your response by 5pm on 27 June 2025 via email to mergers@accc.gov.au  
with the title: Submission re: Hino – Mitsubishi Fuso. If you require more time to respond, 
please let us know. 


 
 
 
If you would like to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any questions about this 
letter, please contact mergers@accc.gov.au.  
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public Mergers 
Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We will not 
disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by 
law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or during court proceedings) or in 
accordance with s155AAA of the CCA. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where possible so that you may have an 
opportunity to be heard. Therefore, if the information provided to the ACCC is of a 
confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our Informal Merger Review Process 
Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality 
 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
Morag Bond 
General Manager  
Merger Investigations 


 
 
 
Attachment A  
 
Mitsubishi Fuso 
Mitsubishi Fuso is a manufacturer of trucks and buses, incorporated and headquartered in 
Japan. It is a private company that is majority-owned by Daimler Truck AG (DTAG).  
Mitsubishi Fuso manufacturers a wide range of trucks and buses under its ‘Fuso’ brand. 
Mitsubishi Fuso primarily manufactures and assembles its vehicles and spare parts in 
Japan. It does not have any manufacturing or assembly facilities in Australia.  
These vehicles are imported into and distributed in Australia by Daimler Truck Australia 
Pacific Pty Ltd (DTAuP) (which is wholly-owned by DTAG) and sold to customers through a 
network of over 40 independent dealerships.  
 
Hino Motors Limited  
Hino is also a manufacturer of trucks and buses. It is a public company listed on the Tokyo 
Stock Exchange Prime Market and the Nagoya Stock Exchange Premier Market. Its majority 
shareholder is the Toyota Motor Corporation (Toyota), and the remainder of its shares are 
held in free float. 
Hino manufactures a wide range of trucks and buses, primarily in its facilities located in 
Japan. It imports trucks (and associated spare parts) into Australia through a wholly owned 
subsidiary, Hino Motor Sales Australia Pty, Ltd (HMSA), and sells to customers through a 
network of over 60 independent dealerships.  
Like Mitsubishi Fuso, Hino does not have any facilities to manufacture or assemble vehicles 
(or spare parts) in Australia. 
 
The Proposed Acquisition   
Toyota and DTAG have entered into agreements to combine all the shares and businesses 
of Mitsubishi Fuso and Hino under a new entity. 
The newly formed company is expected to be listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange with 
DTAG and Toyota each owning approximately 25% of the listed company.  
 
Overlap in Australia 
In Australia, Mitsubishi Fuso and Hino overlap in the supply of:  
• 
light commercial vehicles (LCV)1  
o Hino’s 300 Series and Mitsubishi Fuso’s Canter and eCanter  
• 
medium duty trucks (MDT)2  
 
1 LCV includes commercial vehicles with a gross vehicle weight between 3.5 and 8 tonnes.  
2 MDT includes commercial vehicles with a gross vehicle weight above 8 tonnes and a maximum loaded weight of less than 39 
tonnes.  


 
 
 
o Hino’s 500 Series and Mitsubishi Fuso’s Fighter (and some versions of 
Canter) 
• 
heavy duty trucks (HDT)3  
o Hino’s 500 Series and 700 Series and Mitsubishi Fuso’s Fighter and Shogun  
In addition, Mitsubishi Fuso imports and sells buses in Australia (its Rosa model), and Hino 
manufacturers and sells buses internationally and, until 2022/23, sold its Poncho model in 
Australia.  
 
 
Consideration by overseas competition authorities  
The Proposed Merger is conditional on regulatory approvals in over 40 jurisdictions in 
addition to Australia, including Japan, China, Germany, Spain and Singapore.  
 
 
 
 
3 HDT includes all commercial vehicles with a gross vehicle weight above 8 tonnes and a maximum loaded weight above 39 
tonnes.   


 
 
 
Attachment B 
1. To better understand your views, describe your business or organisation and your 
interest in the proposed acquisition, including any commercial relationship(s) with Hino or 
Mitsubishi Fuso. 
Questions for customers 
2. 
Identify the makes and models of trucks and buses that you purchase or operate in 
Australia. 
3. 
For each make and model, identify suitable alternatives. 
4. 
How closely do Hino and Mitsubishi Fuso compete to supply trucks and buses, and in 
particular LCV, MDT, HDT and buses in Australia? You may wish to comment on 
pricing, product quality and product range. 
5. 
Which manufacturers/suppliers do you consider to be particularly important or effective 
competitors to Hino and Mitsubishi Fuso? 
6. 
To what extent is competition between suppliers of trucks and buses driven by 
manufacturers, dealerships or both? You may wish to comment on how manufacturers 
and dealerships influence the makes and models sold, pricing, discounting, promotions 
and inclusions. 
7. 
How do customers typically buy new trucks and buses? Do they approach dealerships, 
manufacturers/importers, vehicle brokers or use another method? 
Questions for competitors  
8. 
Identify the makes and models of trucks and buses that you sell in Australia that 
compete with the trucks and buses supplied by Mitsubishi Fuso and/or Hino.  
9. 
Which other suppliers/brands compete with Hino and Mitsubishi Fuso in the supply of 
LCV, MDT, HDT and buses in Australia? How closely do these suppliers compete?  
10. Are there any international suppliers/brands that do not currently supply LCV, MDT, 
HDT or buses in Australia that you consider likely to enter the Australian market in the 
next 5 years.  
11. Are you aware of any recent examples of new entry? Please provide details.  
12. Describe your brand’s dealership network in Australia. How extensive is your dealership 
network? Are dealerships ‘brand owned’ or independent third parties? How long are 
dealerships appointed for? Are dealerships exclusive or are dealers permitted to sell 
multiple brands?  
Questions for dealerships 
13. What suppliers/brands do you have a dealership agreement with? Is your agreement 
exclusive? What is the length of your agreement? What costs are involved in switching 
to a new brand? 
14. Explain the level of guidance and support you receive from the suppliers/brands that you 
supply at your dealership.  
15. How closely do you compete with other dealerships, including dealerships that supply 
the same brands as you?  
