1
Public Competition Assessment
9 January 2007
Alinta AGL merger proposals and the acquisition of APT by Alinta
Introduction
1.
On 21 February 2006, Alinta announced to the ASX its proposal to merge with
AGL via a shareholder scheme of arrangement. On 13 March 2006, AGL rejected
Alinta’s merger offer and announced its intention to make its own takeover offer to
acquire 100% of Alinta’s ordinary shares. On 20 March 2006, Alinta subsequently
announced its intention to make a takeover offer for all ordinary shares in AGL.
2.
On 26 April 2006, Alinta and AGL signed a Heads of Agreement to merge the two
companies (‘the Alinta-AGL Joint Merger Proposal’). The Merger
Implementation Agreement (‘MIA’) formalising the Heads of Agreement was
subsequently executed on 1 June 2006.
3.
Despite the signing of the MIA, AGL and Alinta both requested that the Australian
Competition and Consumer Commission (‘ACCC’) continue its assessment of
their separate individual acquisition proposals.
4.
AGL held a 30% stake in Australian Pipeline Trust (‘APT’) at the time the various
merger proposals were announced. Alinta subsequently acquired a further stake in
APT and raised the possibility of continuing to increase that stake.
5.
In effect, the ACCC considered four inter-related, but separate matters:
Alinta’s acquisition of AGL;
AGL’s acquisition of Alinta;
The Alinta-AGL Joint Merger Proposal (a descriptor chosen by the ACCC);
Alinta’s subsequent proposal to retain an interest in APT and subsequently
increase its interest in APT.
6.
The first two matters listed above did not proceed.


2
Public Competition Assessments
7.
To provide an enhanced level of transparency and procedural fairness in its
decision making process, the ACCC issues a Public Competition Assessment for
all transaction proposals where:
a merger is rejected;
a merger is subject to enforceable undertakings;
the merger parties seek such disclosure; or
a merger is approved but raises important issues that the ACCC considers
should be made public.
8.
This Public Competition Assessment has been issued because the ACCC has
accepted section 87B court enforceable undertakings, as noted above, in relation to
AGL’s acquisition of Alinta, the Alinta-AGL Joint Merger Proposal and has also
subsequently accepted a revised undertaking that related to the Alinta-AGL Joint
Merger Proposal and Alinta’s subsequent proposal to retain an interest in APT.
9.
By issuing Public Competition Assessments, the ACCC aims to provide the market
with a better understanding of the ACCC’s analysis of various markets and the
associated merger and competition issues. It also alerts the market to the
circumstances where the ACCC’s assessment of the competition conditions in
particular markets is changing, or likely to change, because of developments.
10.
Each Public Competition Assessment is specific to the particular transaction under
review by the ACCC. While some transaction proposals may involve the same or
related markets, it should not be assumed that the analysis and decision outlined in
one Public Competition Assessment will be conclusive of the ACCC’s view in
respect of other transaction proposals, as each matter will be considered on its own
merits.
11.
Many of the ACCC’s decisions will involve consideration of both non-confidential
and confidential information provided by the merger parties and market
participants. In order to maintain the confidentiality of particular information,
Public Competition Assessments do not contain any confidential information or its
sources. While the ACCC aims to provide an appropriately detailed explanation of
the basis for the views it forms, where this is not possible, maintaining
confidentiality will be the ACCC’s paramount concern, and accordingly a Public
Competition Assessment may not definitively explain all issues and the ACCC’s
analysis of such issues.


3
The Parties
AGL
12.
AGL is a publicly listed company with a market capitalisation of approximately $8
billion at the time of the ACCC’s assessment. The business of AGL encompasses
interests in the following operations and assets:
gas transmission pipelines;
gas distribution networks;
gas wholesale supply;
gas and electricity retail supply;
electricity generation;
electricity distribution networks; and
supply of asset management and infrastructure services.
13.
AGL is the incumbent supplier for retail gas in NSW. It also provides significant
gas and electricity retail supply services in Victoria, South Australia and the ACT.
AGL has approximately 1.5 million electricity customers and 2.8 million gas
customers nationally.
14.
AGL held a 30% interest in APT, and a 50% interest in the responsible entity of
APT, Australian Pipeline Limited (‘APL’). APT is a publicly listed infrastructure
trust, which has interests in a number of gas transmission pipelines throughout
Australia. These assets include the Moomba to Sydney Pipeline (‘MSP’), the
Parmelia Gas Pipeline (‘Parmelia pipeline’) which supplies Perth, and an 88.2%
interest in the Goldfield Gas Transmission Pipeline (‘Goldfields’) in Western
Australia. During the assessment of these matters, APT also acquired GasNet, the
Victorian gas transmission company, and Allgas, a gas distribution operation
covering half of greater Brisbane.
15.
AGL’s asset management company subsidiary, Agility Pty Ltd (‘Agility’),
managed the operation of the MSP, the Parmelia pipeline, and the Goldfields
through the provision of a range of services, in accordance with management
agreements. Agility also provided services to the other infrastructure assets in
which AGL had a direct or indirect interest, as well as actively seeking to provide
services to unrelated third party customers.
Alinta
16.
Alinta is a publicly listed company with a market capitalisation of approximately
$2.8 billion at the time of the ACCC’s assessment. The business of Alinta
encompasses operations and assets in the following areas of the energy industry:
gas transmission pipelines;
gas distribution networks;


4
gas wholesale supply;
gas and electricity retail supply;
electricity generation;
electricity distribution networks; and,
supply of asset management and infrastructure services.
17.
Alinta has approximately 1000 electricity customers and 532,000 retail gas
customers nationally.
18.
Alinta further holds a 20% interest in Alinta Infrastructure Holdings (‘AIH’), a
publicly listed infrastructure trust, which itself has interests in a number of
significant gas transmission infrastructure assets throughout Australia. These
assets include the Eastern Gas Pipeline (‘EGP’) which supplies Sydney from gas
fields off the coast of Victoria. In addition to the gas transmission pipelines held
through AIH, Alinta also has a 20% direct interest in the Dampier to Bunbury
Natural Gas Pipeline (‘DBNGP’) in Western Australia, which supplies gas to the
greater Perth region.
19.
Alinta’s asset management subsidiary, Alinta Asset Management Pty Ltd
(‘AAM’), manages the operation of the EGP and the DBNGP by providing a
comprehensive range of services, in accordance with the long-term and exclusive
management agreements currently in place. AAM also provides a comprehensive
range of services to other infrastructure assets in which Alinta has a direct or
indirect interest.
Market definition
20.
The ACCC considered a number of relevant markets in assessing the proposals.
21.
The key markets in which concerns arose were:
the market for supply of wholesale gas to greater Sydney (including the south-
eastern region of NSW); and
the market for the supply of wholesale gas to the Perth region.
22.
In assessing the effects on competition in these markets, the ACCC considered
control of gas transmission pipelines to be a very important factor.
Overview of Competition Issues relevant to each of the matters
23.
The key competition issues in each of the matters raised in this Public Competition
Assessment all related to the same assets. The key issues in all of the matters
were:
Effects in the market for supply of wholesale gas to greater Sydney, due to the
aggregation of:


5
o
Alinta’s interests in the EGP. Alinta’s interest in the EGP arose via two
means: first, via Alinta’s interest in AIH, which owns the EGP; and
secondly, via Alinta’s subsidiary, AAM, controlling the management and
operational contracts for the EGP; and
o
any interest in the MSP. Interests in the MSP arose via three means: first,
via AGL’s interest in APT, the owner of the MSP; secondly, via AGL’s
subsidiary, Agility, controlling the management and operational contracts
for the MSP; and finally, by Alinta acquiring a direct stake in APT.
Effects in the market for the supply of wholesale gas to the Perth region, due
to aggregation of:
o
Alinta’s interests in the DBNGP. Alinta’s interest in the DBNGP arose
via two means: first, Alinta’s direct 20% stake in the DBNGP; and
secondly, via Alinta’s subsidiary, AAM, controlling the management and
operational contracts for the DBNGP; and
o
any interest in the Parmelia pipeline. Interests in the Parmelia pipeline
arose via the same three means outlined above for the MSP, excepting for
the fact that APT’s interest in the Parmelia is 88.2%, not 100%.
24.
The ACCC’s competition assessment concluded that the full independence of the
key pipelines supplying Sydney (the MSP and EGP) and Perth (the DBNGP and
Parmelia pipeline) was critical, and that any aspect of a transaction that lessened
the independence of the pipelines would be likely to substantially lessen
competition in the relevant wholesale gas markets (greater Sydney and greater
Perth respectively).
25.
The ACCC did not consider that the aggregation of the other AGL or APT assets
with Alinta’s assets was likely to raise competition concerns.
AGL proposed acquisition of Alinta
26.
The following table outlines the key events in relation to AGL’s proposed
acquisition of Alinta.
24 Mar 2006
AGL made a submission to ACCC on competition issues
29 Mar 2006
ACCC commenced market inquiries following public release of AGL’s
proposed undertakings
28 Apr 2006
Closing date for submissions from interested parties
29 May 2006
Proposed announcement of ACCC findings
15 May 2006
Announcement of ACCC findings deferred to this date to allow market
inquiries and assessment of joint merger proposal
16 Jun 2006
ACCC accepted undertakings from AGL


6
27.
On 16 June 2006, the ACCC issued a media release announcing that it had
accepted undertakings offered by AGL pursuant to section 87B of the Trade
Practices Act 1974 in relation to AGL’s proposed acquisition of Alinta.
28.
The undertakings provided that AGL would do the following:
complete a proposed demerger in accordance with the structures and asset
allocations as described in its submission (subject to AGL shareholder
approval). The demerger structure involved the structural separation of
interests in the EGP and the MSP, as well as the structural separation of
interests in the Parmelia pipeline from the DBNGP;
ensure that two demerged corporate structures are ultimately established post-
acquisition: an Infrastructure Company (‘Infrastructure Co’) and an Energy
Company (‘Energy Co’).
ensure there are no cross-shareholdings between the proposed Infrastructure
Co and Energy Co;
constitute Infrastructure Co and Energy Co as separately listed entities on the
ASX with separate Boards and management; and
put in place hold separate arrangements for the period prior to the demerger in
order to ensure the separation of AGL’s interest in APT and Alinta’s interests
in the EGP and DBNGP.
29.
The undertakings also provided that in the event that the demerger did not occur,
AGL would divest its interest in APT and APL and the Agility contracts associated
with the MSP and Parmelia pipelines and sufficient assets and capability from
Agility to operate and service these contracts. AGL was also required to divest
some other specified contracts. Detailed clauses set out the specifics of the
divestment process.
30.
The undertakings ensured that all of the key competition issues were addressed. In
particular, it ensured that there would be ownership and control separation of the
pipelines suppling common areas. In particular, the undertakings would ensure
complete separation of the EGP from the MSP and the Parmelia pipeline from the
DBNGP. Further information regarding the competition analysis of aggregation of
the various interests is available in the description of the other matters below.
31.
The undertakings are available on the ACCC website. The acquisition did not
proceed.
Alinta proposed acquisition of AGL
32.
The following table outlines the key events in relation to Alinta’s proposed
acquisition of AGL.


7
29 Mar 2006
Alinta provided draft s87B undertakings for public consultation
30 Mar 2006
Alinta provided a substantial submission on competition issues
28 Apr 2006
Market inquiries were completed
31 May 2006
Alinta formally offered revised undertakings
16 Jun 2006
ACCC released a Statement of Issues
3 Jul 2006
Market inquiries in relation to the Statement of Issues were completed
3 Aug 2006
Matter suspended from consideration, pending further information from
Alinta
33.
The 16 June 2006 Statement of Issues also related to the Alinta-AGL Joint Merger
Proposal. Details regarding the Statement of Issues and the key competition issues
is supplied in the discussion of the Alinta-AGL Joint Merger Proposal below.
34.
This matter was withdrawn by Alinta and closed by the ACCC on 21 September
2006. The acquisition did not proceed.
Alinta-AGL Joint Merger Proposal
35.
Unlike AGL’s proposal to acquire Alinta and Alinta’s proposal to acquire AGL,
the Alinta-AGL Joint Merger Proposal did proceed.
36.
The following table outlines the key events in relation to the Alinta AGL Joint
Merger Proposal.
04 May 2006
Alinta submission on competition issues sent to ACCC
24 May 2006
Alinta offered revised draft s87B undertaking to ACCC
24 May 2006
ACCC commenced market inquiries in relation to revised draft s87B
undertaking
16 Jun 2006
ACCC Issued Statement of Issues - market inquiries commenced
03 Jul 2006
Market inquiries in relation to Statement of Issues completed
03 Aug 2006
ACCC accepted undertakings from Alinta
37.
The following two diagrams show the proposed structure after the Alinta-AGL
Joint Merger Proposal.


8


9
38.
In its Statement of Issues on 16 June 2006, the ACCC identified the following
competition issues:
Issues of concern
common ownership of substantial interest in the entities which own the EGP
and MSP with the aggregation of Agility and AAM as service providers for
those pipelines;
Issues that may raise concerns
Aggregation of interests in the DBNGP, Parmelia pipeline and Goldfields
pipelines, combined with the aggregation of Agility and AAM as service
providers for those pipelines;
Issues unlikely to pose concerns
aggregation of asset management and infrastructure service provider
companies (Agility and AAM);
aggregation of interests in gas transmission pipelines in Queensland;
aggregation of interest in electricity distribution networks in Victoria;
aggregation of retail interests;
aggregation of interests in electricity generation.
39.
On 3 August 2006, the ACCC issued a media release announcing that it had
accepted undertakings offered by Alinta pursuant to section 87B of the TPA in
relation to the Alinta-AGL Joint Merger Proposal. The undertakings alleviated the
ACCC’s concerns as articulated in the Statement of Issues.
40.
In summary, the undertakings provided by Alinta in relation to the Alinta-AGL
Joint Merger Proposal require:
that Alinta divest any interest that it has in APT and APL by a specified
confidential date;
that Alinta divest the Agility contracts (Agility is currently a subsidiary of
AGL) that involve supplying management and operational services to the
MSP and Parmelia pipeline if required by the ACCC. Subsequently, on 29
September 2006, the ACCC indicated that it would not relieve Alinta of the
undertaking to divest the Agility contracts as it became apparent that the
contracts would offer considerable scope for Alinta to control the pipelines.
that Alinta abide by various hold separate and ring fencing commitments in
relation to the MSP and Parmelia pipeline for the specific transitional period


10
during which the abovementioned divestments are required to occur, including
a commitment by Alinta not to nominate or vote on APL board appointments.
41.
Market inquiries in relation to the Statement of Issues had confirmed that the
issues listed in the 16 June 2006 Statement of Issues as issues unlikely to pose
concerns, did not in fact raise significant competition issues. The ACCC noted
that there would be likely to be infrastructure services providers other than Agility
and AAM to compete to be the service providers for new gas and electricity
infrastructure projects. The ACCC noted the aggregation of the interests in the
transmission pipelines in Queensland did not remove any competitive dynamic,
although regardless, Alinta’s commitment to divest APT removed any aggregation.
The ACCC noted the natural monopoly characteristics of the Victorian electricity
transmission businesses and the lack of a competitive dynamic prior to the
acquisition.
42.
In relation to the retail interests, the ACCC noted the existence of other significant
retail players along the eastern seaboard. In Western Australia, the ACCC noted
AGL’s limited operations in that sphere. In relation to electricity generation, the
ACCC noted that the acquisition did not appear to raise any significant horizontal
aggregation issues or significant vertical competition issues that did not already
exist prior to the acquisition.
43.
The ACCC did not consider that the aggregation of interests in the Goldfields
pipeline and the DBNGP would substantially lessen competition in downstream
gas and electricity markets. In particular, the ACCC noted the distance between
the two pipelines and the relatively limited competitive dynamic created by
generators in the south-west interconnected electricity system which are powered
by gas from the Goldfields pipeline. The ACCC noted that Alinta offered to divest
the interest in APT, which owned the majority of the Goldfields pipeline.
However, Alinta intended to retain the Agility contract for the provision of
operational and maintenance services to the Goldfields pipeline.
Alinta’s subsequent proposal to retain an interest in APT and increase its interest in
APT
44.
In August 2006, Alinta commenced acquiring APT shares. On 21 August 2006,
Alinta lodged a Notice of Substantial Shareholder to the ASX, and by 22 August
2006 had acquired a 10.25% unit-holding in APT. An application was made by
APT to the Takeovers Panel in relation to this acquisition by Alinta.
45.
The ACCC did not need to take any action at this time, due to the existence of the
signed 3 August 2006 undertakings from Alinta that committed Alinta to divesting
any interest that it has in APT and APL by a specified confidential date.


11
46.
The following table outlines the key events in relation to the Alinta AGL joint
merger proposal.
17 August 2006
Alinta announced that it had acquired units in APT
8 September 2006
Draft 87B undertakings proffered by Alinta to replace the 3 August
2006 undertakings. ACCC commenced market inquiries in relation to
new undertakings.
6 October 2006
ACCC announced that it would not accept the 8 September offer of
revised undertakings from Alinta. The 3 August 2006 undertakings
therefore remained in force.
6 November 2006
ACCC commenced market inquiries in relation to new offer of
revised undertakings by Alinta
9 November 2006
Market inquiries were completed in relation to 6 November offer of
revised undertakings
22 November 2006 Expected announcement of the ACCC's findings in relation to
Alinta's 6 November offer of undertakings was delayed.
27 November 2006 ACCC announced that it accepted replacement undertakings. The 27
November 2006 undertakings replace the 3 August 2006
undertakings.
47.
On 27 November 2006, the ACCC accepted new section 87B undertakings
proposed by Alinta, to replace the Alinta-AGC Joint Merger Proposal undertakings
(accepted on 3 August 2006). The new undertakings were materially similar to the
previous undertaking given by Alinta on 3 August 2006, with the following key
differentiating points:
in the event that APT ceases to have any interest in the MSP, Parmelia
pipeline and GasNet, Alinta’s commitment to divest APT falls away; and
Alinta is permitted to vote on the appointment of new independent directors to
the Board of the governing body of APT, APL. The undertakings specified in
detail the definition of “independent director.”
48.
The ACCC accepted the revised undertakings recognising that the key competition
issues arising from Alinta having an interest in APT arose only due to APT’s
ownership of the MSP, Parmelia pipeline and GasNet, and not APT’s other assets.
Therefore, the ACCC considered that if APT divested MSP, Parmelia pipeline and
GasNet, then Alinta could retain any interest in APT. However, the ACCC was
highly concerned about any influence that Alinta may have over APT in the period
prior to any divestment. In particular, the ACCC was concerned about effects in
the market for supply of wholesale gas to greater Sydney, due to the aggregation of
Alinta’s interest in the EGP and APT’s interest in the MSP. The EGP and the
MSP are the two key sources of gas for greater Sydney. The ACCC was also
concerned about the effects in the market for the supply of wholesale gas to the
Perth region, given the aggregation of interests in the DBNGP and the Parmelia


12
pipeline, the two key pipelines supplying greater Perth. Therefore, the final
undertaking only permitted Alinta to appoint independent board members.
49.
In respect of APT’s intended interest in GasNet, the ACCC did consider that Alinta
obtaining any interest in GasNet would raise competition concerns. The ACCC
noted the competitive dynamic created by the interconnect between the GasNet
system and APT’s MSP pipeline and associated laterals, which acts as route for gas
from Gippsland to greater Sydney, and therefore creates a direct competitive
dynamic for the EGP.
50.
After extensive market inquiries, the ACCC did not consider that Alinta obtaining
a direct interest in APT’s other interests raised significant competition concerns.
51.
In respect of APT’s interest in the Goldfields pipeline, as stated above, the ACCC
did not consider that the aggregation of interests in the Goldfields pipeline and the
DBNGP would substantially lessen competition in downstream gas and electricity
markets. In particular, the ACCC noted the distance between the two pipelines and
the relatively limited competitive dynamic created by generators in the south-west
interconnected electricity system which are powered by gas from the Goldfields
pipeline. In relation to the northern WA regions where the Goldfields pipeline and
DBNGP are proximately located and where Alinta has other interests, the ACCC
noted the potential threat of new entry through the building of a new pipeline to
significant customers in the area and the countervailing power of existing and
potential new customers in that area.
CONCLUSION
52.
The Alinta-AGL Joint Merger Proposal occurred on 25 October 2006, causing
among other things, AGL’s interest in APT to move to Alinta.
53.
Alinta’s acquisition of AGL and AGL’s acquisition of Alinta did not proceed.
54.
Alinta acquired a further interest in APT, beyond the interest it acquired from
AGL. Various legal disputes (not involving the ACCC) remain in relation to this
interest.
55.
The 27 September 2006 undertaking applies to Alinta in relation to any interest
that it has in APT. At the time of writing, it is unclear whether APT will divest
MSP, the Parmelia pipeline and GasNet, and therefore it is still unclear whether
Alinta will have to divest its interest in APT and APL.
