 
 
 
 
22 September 2010 
 
Statement of Issues — Metcash Trading Limited - 
proposed acquisition of Franklins Supermarket 
Business  
1. 
Outlined below is the Statement of Issues released by the Australian 
Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) in relation to the proposed 
acquisition of Interfrank Group Holdings Pty Ltd (Franklins) by Metcash 
Trading Limited (proposed acquisition).  
2. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as 
well as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to 
undertake. 
3. 
In line with the ACCC’s Merger Review Process Guidelines (available on the 
ACCC’s website at www.accc.gov.au) the ACCC has established a secondary 
timeline for further consideration of the issues. The ACCC anticipates 
completing further market inquiries by 15 October 2010 and anticipates 
making a final decision on 11 November 2010. However, the anticipated 
timeline can change in line with the Merger Review Process Guidelines. To 
keep abreast of possible changes in relation to timing and to find relevant 
documents, market participants should visit the Mergers Register on the 
ACCC's website at www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
4. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties 
(including customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to 
ascertain and consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also 
intended to provide the merger parties and other interested parties with the 
basis for making further submissions should they consider it necessary. 
Background 
5. 
On 29 July 2010, the ACCC commenced a public review of the proposed 
acquisition after receiving a submission from Metcash Trading Limited 
(Metcash) seeking ACCC clearance of its proposed acquisition of Franklins.  


Metcash Trading Limited - proposed acquisition of Franklins  
The parties 
Metcash  
6. 
Metcash is an Australian Stock Exchange listed marketing, wholesaling and 
distribution company that services independent grocery retailers throughout 
Australia.   
7. 
Metcash is Australia's largest independent grocery, fresh produce and liquor 
wholesaler and distributor. Through its IGA Distribution (IGA>D), IGA 
Fresh (IGA>F), Campbells Wholesale and Australian Liquor Marketers 
businesses, Metcash is a wholesaler and distributor of groceries and liquor to 
independent grocery retailers. In addition, Metcash provides marketing and 
promotional services to independent grocery retailers. Metcash also provides 
expansion support to independent retailers, including loans, leasing retailing 
sites on behalf of retailers and holding head leases.  
Franklins  
8. 
Franklins is owned by Pick n Pay Retailers (Pty) Ltd (Pick n Pay), a South 
African company. 
9. 
Franklins supplies 88 Franklins branded stores throughout NSW. Franklins 
owns and operates 80 stores (the corporate stores) and supplies eight 
franchise stores, which are owned and operated by Franklins franchisees (the 
franchise stores).  
10. 
In 2005 Franklins established its own distribution and logistics capabilities 
and buying team after terminating its supply arrangements with Metcash.  
Franklins stores are supplied via two leased distribution centres. Picking, 
packing and transport services at the Franklins distribution centres (DCs) are 
provided by third party logistics contractors. As a result, the ACCC considers 
that Franklins is a wholesale supplier of grocery items to at least the Franklins 
franchisees.   
The transaction  
11. 
On 1 July 2010, Metcash entered into an agreement with Pick n Pay to 
acquire the shares of Interfrank Group Holdings Pty Ltd. The agreement is 
conditional upon ACCC approval. The proposed acquisition would involve 
the acquisition of 80 Franklins corporate stores. Metcash would also take over 
Franklins’ franchise agreements, and in relation to the franchise stores would: 
• retain the role of franchisor;  
• retain the role of landlord/lease holder, where that is currently the 
case; and  
• continue to be bound by the terms of the franchise agreements, 
including the obligations regarding supply to franchisees.  
 
2


Metcash Trading Limited - proposed acquisition of Franklins  
12. 
The ACCC understands that the franchise stores would not be automatically 
re-branded as IGA stores and franchisees would be able to choose whether or 
not to remain as Franklins franchisees. 
13. 
Metcash proposes to implement a store sale program to sell the Franklins 
stores to new or existing independent retailers. Metcash would operate the 
stores whilst the store sale program is completed. 
Industry background 
14. 
There are many different grocery retailing models in Australia, ranging from 
full vertical integration to a complete split of ownership and control between 
retailing and wholesaling. 
15. 
In 2008 the ACCC conducted a thorough examination of the grocery supply 
chain. The findings of the ACCC were published in the ACCC’s Inquiry into 
the Competitiveness of Retail Prices for Standard Groceries (Grocery 
Inquiry) report.   
16. 
There are three distinct levels in the supply chain. These are discussed below. 
Retailers  
17. 
The current market participants at the retail level can be broadly categorised 
as outlined in the table below. 
 
3


Metcash Trading Limited - proposed acquisition of Franklins  
Table 1 
Retailing models in Australia 
Approximate description of level of vertical 
integration 
Stores which fit the description 
VERTICALLY INTEGRATED RETAILERS  
Full vertical integration between retailing and 
wholesaling 
 
ALDI, Coles, Woolworths (other than 
Tasmania) and the 80 company-owned 
Franklins stores (as distinct from the franchise 
stores) 
ALDI, Coles and Woolworths have their own 
wholesale operations. However, they only 
supply grocery items to their own stores 
INDEPENDENT RETAILERS 
The wholesaler has a ‘banner’ agreement with the 
retailer, which gives the wholesaler some limited 
influence over the retailer’s operations (e.g. 
branding, promotions). In some cases the 
wholesaler also owns a minority interest in the 
retailer, which may increase the wholesaler’s level 
of influence/ control 
Most of the IGA branded stores in Australia 
(the wholesaler is Metcash)  
Metcash owns a minority interest in some IGA 
stores and chains of IGA stores, such as 
Ritchies  
 
The wholesaler has a franchising agreement with 
the retailer, which gives the wholesaler some 
influence over the retailer’s operations (e.g. 
branding, promotions, range) 
SPAR, some Franklins stores and some IGA 
stores 
The wholesaler is run as a joint venture  
Tasmanian Woolworths, IGA and independent 
stores each have an interest in Tasmanian 
Wholesaler Statewide Independent 
Wholesalers 
A collection of retailers have a ‘banner group’ 
agreement, which gives the collective a degree of 
control over each retailer’s operations. The 
collective negotiates with wholesalers on behalf of 
all the stores 
FoodWorks (which acquires dry groceries as a 
collective from Metcash) 
Independent retailers who have no banner group 
agreement or shareholding links with wholesalers 
Non-IGA independents supplied by Metcash 
 
18. 
At the retail level, the vertically integrated supermarket operators compete not 
only with each other but also with independent retailers. The level of 
competition differs depending on factors such as the size, product range and 
proximity of the stores. Retailers compete to attract customers on price, 
service levels, convenience, brands, community involvement, loyalty 
programs, discounts, promotions and other factors.   
19. 
Retailers vary in many ways, including the range of stock, the size of the 
store, prices, service levels, and as a result how these stores are seen by 
consumers. The ACCC has received information from market participants 
suggesting that Metcash supplied retailers in NSW are viewed by many 
consumers as convenience-style stores, where the range and size of the store 
 
4


Metcash Trading Limited - proposed acquisition of Franklins  
is limited and prices are expected to be higher than those of competing full-
line supermarkets.   
20. 
These market participants submitted that Franklins, on the other hand, is seen 
by consumers as having a greater range, generally larger stores and more 
competitive prices, and is therefore considered as offering a comparable 
experience to Woolworths and Coles, which offer consumers a full-line 
supermarket. However, the ACCC notes that certain market participants 
disagree with these characterisations of IGA and Franklins supermarkets. 
Wholesalers  
Metcash 
21. 
Metcash’s IGA>D business is Australia's largest grocery wholesale 
distribution and marketing company with six major DCs located in New 
South Wales (two DCs), Queensland, Victoria, South Australia and Western 
Australia. From these DCs IGA>D distributes packaged grocery products 
(dry, chilled and frozen) and general merchandise across Australia. Metcash 
carries approximately 29,000 grocery product lines.  
22. 
IGA>F distributes fresh produce, meat, delicatessen and bakery product 
nationally, with a distribution network underpinned by ten dedicated fresh 
produce warehouses and two meat processing facilities.   
23. 
Metcash supplies independent retailers under the IGA banner including Supa 
IGA, IGA, IGA X-press and Friendly Grocer. ‘IGA’ is a registered trade 
mark of IGA Inc under licence to Metcash Trading Limited. 
24. 
Metcash also supplies retailers under the FoodWorks banner and other non-
branded independent retailers.   
Franklins 
25. 
Franklins’ wholesaling operation is comprised of two DCs, one for fresh 
produce and one for packaged groceries. The Franklins DCs are operated on 
behalf of Franklins by two third party logistics operators.   
26. 
The two Franklins DCs collectively hold approximately 18,000 lines of stock.  
Approximately 90% of the stock purchased by Franklins is delivered into 
these warehouses, with the remainder delivered directly to stores.   
SPAR 
27. 
SPAR Australia Limited (SPAR) is a Queensland based wholesaler of 
grocery products. SPAR’s major activities include: 
• procurement, storage, and distribution of fast moving consumer 
goods; 
• liquor warehousing and distribution services; 
 
5


Metcash Trading Limited - proposed acquisition of Franklins  
• marketing and retail support services to SPAR and 5 Star supermarket 
outlets; 
• retailer training programs; and 
• retail property development. 
28. 
SPAR supplies grocery products and marketing and retail support services to 
approximately 300 independent retail supermarkets including the SPAR and 
5 Star banner groups. The majority of SPAR-supplied supermarkets are 
located in Queensland, although SPAR also supplies some retailers in New 
South Wales, the ACT, Northern Territory and Pacific Island areas. 
29. 
SPAR’s distribution centre is located in QLD and carries approximately 
14,000 dry grocery lines. SPAR is able to supply a further 2,000 
frozen/chilled product lines warehoused under contract through VersaCold 
Logistics’ Coldstore distribution centre in Murarrie, QLD.  
Other 
30. 
The ACCC understands that there exist other specialist wholesalers that 
supply certain products to independent retailers in NSW, but inquiries 
indicate that none of these have the ability to supply all or even most of the 
needs of a full line supermarket.  
Products sold in supermarkets  
31. 
Most products sold by supermarkets are packaged groceries, which comprise 
dry, frozen and chilled groceries. The ACCC understands that the majority of 
packaged groceries are sourced from their producers and manufacturers by 
wholesalers on a state or national level, reflecting the long shelf life of these 
products.   
32. 
Fresh produce, which includes fruit, vegetables and bread, has a limited shelf 
life and is often sourced direct to store by retailers, rather than through a 
warehouse, on a state or local level. 
33. 
The main wholesale acquirers of the products sold in supermarkets are 
vertically integrated retailers, such as Coles Group Limited (Coles), 
Woolworths Limited (Woolworths) and Franklins, and wholesalers such as 
Metcash. Other acquirers of grocery products include specialist stores, 
convenience stores and other independent wholesalers, such as SPAR.   
 
6


Metcash Trading Limited - proposed acquisition of Franklins  
The ACCC invites market participants to comment on wholesale supply options  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants regarding the ability of full 
line supermarket retailers to obtain supply from wholesalers other than Metcash, 
Franklins and SPAR. Please provide details of the wholesalers, including details of 
the type of products supplied, the ability of these wholesalers to supply independent 
retailers in diverse geographic areas and the ability of these wholesalers to begin 
supplying additional products (such as fresh produce).   
Please also provide any relevant information or examples of additional transaction 
costs and/or inconvenience associated with obtaining supply from multiple sources 
rather than from a single wholesaler. 
Areas of overlap  
Wholesale 
34. 
The operations of Metcash and Franklins overlap in the wholesale supply of 
grocery items and the provision of other marketing/brand support services to 
independent retailers in NSW.  
35. 
The ACCC notes that independent retailers can and have switched between 
Metcash and Franklins for supply of grocery items and marketing and brand 
support services.  
36. 
Metcash and Franklins also provide banner and marketing support to retailers; 
for example the IGA banner, which is provided under a licence agreement 
from Metcash, and the Franklins banner, which is owned by Franklins.   
37. 
The ACCC notes there is a key difference between Metcash and Franklins in 
terms of their wholesale supply to independent retailers. To date, with very 
limited exceptions, Franklins has chosen to provide wholesaling services to 
the Franklins franchisees only (and the corporately owned Franklins stores), 
whereas Metcash supplies both IGA and non-IGA branded retailers.   
Retail 
38. 
The operations of Franklins and Metcash overlap indirectly at the retail level, 
via competition between Franklins retail stores and Metcash-supplied 
independent retailers.   
39. 
Post-acquisition, the Franklins supermarket stores are likely to be owned or 
operated by independent IGA store operators. Accordingly, the ACCC 
considers that there is potential overlap between individual IGA and Franklins 
retail supermarket stores within local retail areas. 
 
 
 
7


Metcash Trading Limited - proposed acquisition of Franklins  
Procurement  
40. 
The operations of Metcash and Franklins overlap in their procurement of 
products sold in supermarkets from growers and manufacturers of grocery 
items.  
With/without test  
41. 
In assessing a merger pursuant to section 50 of the Trade Practices Act 1974, 
the ACCC must consider the effects of the transaction by comparing the 
likely competitive environment post-acquisition if the transaction proceeds 
(the “with” position) to the likely competitive environment if the transaction 
does not proceed (the “without” position or “counterfactual” position) to 
determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to substantially lessen 
competition in any relevant market. 
42. 
There are a number of possible counterfactuals which the ACCC is exploring 
in relation to its assessment of the proposed acquisition. These 
counterfactuals include: 
• Pick n Pay continues to operate Franklins (counterfactual 1); 
• Franklins is sold to an alternative single buyer or consortium 
(counterfactual 2); and 
• the sale stores would be sold off individually or in groups and would 
continue to be operated as supermarket stores, while the wholesaling 
operations would be closed down (counterfactual 3). 
43. 
The ACCC has received conflicting information from market participants in 
relation to the likely situation without the proposed acquisition.   
44. 
The ACCC notes that some interested parties have suggested that 
counterfactual 1 is highly unlikely to occur due to the recent performance of 
the business and the investment strategy of its owner. Similarly, certain 
market participants have suggested that there is no other likely acquirer for 
the Franklins business, indicating that counterfactual 2 is unlikely to 
eventuate. 
45. 
However, the ACCC has also received information indicating that Pick n 
Pay’s incentive in the absence of an acceptable bid would be to continue to 
operate the business in the short to medium term (at least). The ACCC has 
also received information supporting the view that there are other parties who 
would wish to acquire the wholesale and retail business or alternatively the 
retail stores if given the opportunity. 
46. 
On the basis of information received to date, the ACCC has not yet ruled out 
any of these three possible counterfactuals and will make an assessment as to 
the likelihood of each counterfactual prior to making its final decision in this 
matter.   
 
8


Metcash Trading Limited - proposed acquisition of Franklins  
47. 
The ACCC notes that the analysis of possible competition issues is likely to 
differ to some degree depending on whether each of the above counterfactuals 
is considered likely. Where the competition analysis is contingent on one of 
these possible ‘without’ scenarios, this is identified at the relevant point of 
this Statement of Issues.  
The ACCC invites market participants to comment on the likely counterfactual 
The ACCC invites market participants to provide information and evidence as to 
the likely competitive environment if the proposed acquisition does not proceed, 
including specific information to assist the ACCC in forming a view as to the 
likelihood of counterfactuals 1, 2 and 3 identified above occurring.    
Market definition 
48. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the following markets are relevant to 
the proposed acquisition: 
• the wholesale market for the supply of packaged groceries to independent 
supermarket operators in NSW; 
• the wholesale market for the supply of fresh produce to independent 
supermarket operators in NSW;  
• the market for the supply and distribution of grocery products1 to 
consumers in NSW (encompassing both wholesale and retail dimensions); 
• the NSW market for the procurement of grocery products by wholesalers 
from suppliers and growers; and 
• local markets for the retail sale of grocery products in supermarkets. 
 
49. 
The ACCC considers that there are several distinct fields of rivalry in this 
industry, which overlap to some extent. The rivalry manifests itself not only 
at a local level between individual retailers and at a wholesale level between 
individual wholesalers, but also more broadly between vertically integrated 
chains and others. As the ACCC takes a purposive approach to market 
definition, it has defined each of these areas of rivalry as a distinct relevant 
market for the purpose of this analysis.   
Wholesale markets  
50. 
The ACCC is of the view that the wholesale supply of packaged grocery 
products to independent retailers and the wholesale supply of fresh products 
to independent retailers form separate markets. 
                                                 
1 Defined broadly to mean products sold in supermarkets. 
 
9


Metcash Trading Limited - proposed acquisition of Franklins  
51. 
While there are a number of alternative wholesale suppliers of fresh produce, 
there are only two (or at most three)2 potential wholesale suppliers of 
packaged groceries to independent supermarket operators in NSW.     
52. 
While there appears to be some degree of demand side substitutability 
between certain types of fresh produce and packaged groceries, there are 
functional differences between fresh produce and packaged groceries.  
53. 
Substitution between fresh fruit and vegetables and packaged groceries, such 
as frozen or canned fruit and vegetables, is only likely to occur at the margins. 
54. 
On the supply side, on the basis of information received to date, the ACCC 
does not consider that wholesale suppliers of packaged groceries are close 
substitutes for fresh produce wholesale suppliers to independent 
supermarkets.   
55. 
Supplying fresh produce requires different infrastructure, including 
specialised warehousing expertise and distribution mechanisms. Therefore the 
ACCC considers that packaged wholesale suppliers are unlikely to be able to 
easily switch to supplying fresh produce as a result of the specific nature of 
fresh produce wholesaling.  
56. 
The ACCC considers it is even less likely that fresh produce suppliers could 
easily switch to supplying packaged groceries given that supplying packaged 
groceries requires greater scale and infrastructure than fresh produce supply.   
57. 
Market inquiries indicate that obtaining wholesale supply of packaged 
groceries or fresh produce from a wholesaler outside of NSW is not viable for 
the majority of retailers. Accordingly, the ACCC takes the preliminary view 
that the geographic dimension of the markets is appropriately defined as 
being limited to NSW. 
58. 
The ACCC recognises that vertically integrated chains may have some role 
within these markets, but that role is limited. While most vertically integrated 
chains do not compete directly to supply independently owned retailers 
(Franklins being an exception to this), vertically integrated chains provide 
some degree of indirect competitive constraint through retail competition.  
However, the most direct constraint on wholesale suppliers comes from other 
independent wholesalers. Evidence presented to the ACCC in the Grocery 
Inquiry suggests that independent wholesalers have a degree of pricing power 
which is not eliminated by the indirect constraint posed by vertically-
integrated chains.3 
59. 
The ACCC therefore considers that the relevant markets are:  
                                                 
2 This depends upon whether SPAR, a Queensland-based wholesaler, is considered a potential 
wholesaler. The ACCC’s inquiries have indicated that SPAR is not generally considered a real 
alternative in terms of wholesale supply of packaged groceries for full line supermarkets in NSW.   
3 This degree of pricing power is likely to be sufficient for a hypothetical monopolist to impose a SSNIP 
to independent retailers.  
 
10


Metcash Trading Limited - proposed acquisition of Franklins  
• the wholesale market for the supply of packaged groceries to 
independent supermarket operators in NSW; and  
• the wholesale market for the supply of fresh produce to independent 
supermarket operators in NSW.  
Market for the supply and distribution of grocery products to consumers in NSW 
60. 
The ACCC has considered that the proposed acquisition may affect an 
overarching market that includes both wholesalers and retailers. This market 
could be characterised as the NSW market for the distribution of grocery 
products via vertically integrated supermarket chains and independent 
wholesalers supplying independent retailers.4   
61. 
As noted at paragraph 18, the level of competition between supermarket 
operators depends on factors such as the size of the store, product range and 
service levels. The ACCC considers that large vertically integrated 
supermarket operators (such as Woolworths and Coles) compete most closely 
with each other, particularly on price and product range. The ACCC considers 
that smaller non-vertically integrated stores (such as IGA and other Metcash-
supplied retailers) provide limited price competition to the major supermarket 
chains and are more likely to compete on factors such as convenience and 
service levels.   
62. 
This market includes both the wholesale and retail levels of activity.  As 
noted in its Grocery Inquiry report, the ACCC found that competition 
between independent retailers and the major supermarket chains (Coles and 
Woolworths) does competitively constrain Metcash to a degree. As such, 
while Metcash does not operate as a retailer, but rather is the wholesale 
supplier to retailers, the ACCC is of the view that it also relevant to analyse 
the proposed transaction in the context of a broader market that encompasses 
the supply chains of both the vertically integrated supermarket chains and the 
Metcash/independent retailer relationship.   
Local retail markets  
63. 
With respect to the retail markets, the ACCC considers that the relevant 
markets should include supermarket retailers operating under a range of 
different retail business models including the vertically integrated chains, 
franchises, members of buying groups and independent retailers supplied by 
Metcash. 
64. 
In previous matters the ACCC has generally considered, as a starting point, 
the geographic scope of local supermarket markets to be the area within a 3-
5km radius surrounding the supermarket to be acquired. However, in 
assessing the relevant market in any supermarket acquisition the ACCC will 
consider geographic factors, such as the layout of roads in the area or the rural 
                                                 
4 A similar market definition was considered by the Trade Practices Tribunal in Re. QIW Ltd (1995) 132 
ALR 225. 
 
11


Metcash Trading Limited - proposed acquisition of Franklins  
location of stores, which are potentially important when defining the 
geographic scope of a local market.5  
Procurement market  
65. 
Consistent with its consideration of previous supermarket acquisitions, the 
ACCC has also considered the proposed acquisition in the context of a state-
wide (NSW) market for the procurement of products sold in supermarkets by 
supermarket wholesalers (including vertically integrated supermarket chains 
which provide their own ‘wholesaling’ services) from growers and suppliers 
of products sold in supermarkets.  
The ACCC invites market participants to comment on market definition. 
The ACCC welcomes any comments from market participants regarding the 
ACCC’s preliminary views on market definition. 
In particular the ACCC seeks views on whether there exists an overarching market 
for the distribution of grocery products to consumers via vertically integrated chains 
and independent wholesalers supplying independent retailers.  
The ACCC welcomes any comments as to geographic dimension, including 
whether there are any significant elements of local competition between Franklins 
and Metcash-supplied independent retailers. 
Market inquiries 
66. 
On 30 July 2010, the ACCC commenced its first round of market inquiries 
regarding the proposed acquisition. A range of interested parties provided 
responses, including suppliers of packaged groceries, supermarket operators 
and competitors of Franklins and Metcash.   
67. 
All interested parties are now invited to make submissions on the issues 
raised in this Statement of Issues prior to the ACCC’s final decision. 
Statement of issues 
68. 
For the purposes of this Statement of Issues, the issues in this matter are 
divided into three categories; 'issues of concern', 'issues that may raise 
concerns' and 'issues unlikely to pose concerns'. 
 
                                                 
5 “Market definition is not an exact physical exercise to identify a physical feature of the world; nor is it 
an enquiry after the nature of some form of essential existence. Rather, it is the recognition and use of an 
economic tool or instrumental concept related to market power, constraints on power and the competitive 
process which is best adapted to analyse the asserted anti-competitive conduct. … Thus, once one 
appreciates the integrated legal and economic notions involved in the concept of a market and its 
purposive role … one is unlikely to find utility in a debate about the precise physical metes and bounds 
of a market”: ACCC v Liquorland (Australia) Pty Ltd [2006] FCA 826 per Allsop J at [429]-[430].  
 
12


Metcash Trading Limited - proposed acquisition of Franklins  
Issues of concern  
Market for the wholesale supply of packaged groceries to independent retailers in NSW  
69. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is likely to 
result in a substantial lessening of competition in the market for the supply of 
packaged groceries to independent retailers in NSW. 
70. 
In particular, the ACCC is concerned that, as a result of the proposed 
acquisition, Metcash is likely to have significantly greater unilateral market 
power.   
71. 
The ACCC has considered whether the competitive environment with the 
proposed acquisition constitutes a substantial lessening of competition 
relative to the counterfactuals identified above.   
Competitive constraint from the prospect that independent retailers would switch to 
Franklins  
72. 
As noted above, market inquiries have provided some evidence of 
independent retailers switching their wholesale supply from Metcash to 
Franklins. This has involved these retailers changing from the IGA banner to 
the Franklins banner. 
73. 
Currently, independent supermarkets in NSW can become franchisees of 
Franklins and maintain ownership and operation of their stores. This provides 
the closest available structural alternative to the Metcash supplied 
independent retailer network. 
74. 
The ACCC considers that the alternative of the Franklins wholesale supply 
and banner currently constitutes a real competitive ‘threat’ to Metcash in 
NSW.   
75. 
This is also reflected in the fact that Metcash’s banner group IGA has in the 
past written to its members seeking to discourage them from becoming 
Franklins franchisees. 
76. 
Market inquiries have indicated that Franklins has been and continues to be a 
vigorous competitor and real alternative to Metcash for the wholesale supply 
of packaged groceries in NSW.   
77. 
Market inquiries have indicated that Metcash is currently constrained in its 
dealings with independent supermarkets in NSW as a result of the alternative 
supply model offered by Franklins. For example, independent supermarket 
operators are in a stronger bargaining position when asked by Metcash to sign 
supply agreements because of the (explicit or implicit) threat that they might 
switch to Franklins if Metcash were to insist upon retailers signing such an 
agreement. Market participants have expressed concern that the proposed 
acquisition would have the effect of removing this constraint on Metcash in 
NSW.   
 
13


Metcash Trading Limited - proposed acquisition of Franklins  
78. 
Market participants have indicated that in the event that the alternative supply 
model offered by Franklins is removed, Metcash is likely to be in a much 
stronger position to exercise its increased market power through one or more 
of the following: increased prices, seeking to tie retailers to obtaining supply 
from Metcash through contractual and/or lease terms, or a drop in service 
levels.   
79. 
Further, market participants have raised concerns that the loss of the high 
profile ‘No Frills’ private label product would remove a constraint on other 
supermarkets’ generic brands, and in particular Metcash’s wholesale pricing 
of Black and Gold products.   
Barriers to entry and expansion 
80. 
The ACCC considers that barriers to entry and expansion in the market are 
substantial, and that if the proposed acquisition proceeds, entry or expansion 
on a scale sufficient to provide a competitive constraint on Metcash is not 
likely within the foreseeable future 
81. 
Market inquiries have indicated that successful entry into the market is not 
only costly (including substantial sunk costs), but is largely dependent on 
having access to, and the ability to compete for, a large number of retail 
supermarkets as customers. Without achieving scale, a wholesaler is unlikely 
to be able to viably operate and compete as a wholesaler of packaged 
groceries.   
82. 
In turn, retailers are not in a position to establish wholesale operations 
without establishing sufficient scale to support such a warehouse as well as 
ensuring that they have access to competitive supply arrangements to use 
during the period when they are establishing a warehouse.   
83. 
Market participants have submitted that this presents a ‘catch 22’ problem 
that can only be overcome by instantly acquiring both the retail scale and the 
wholesale operations. Market inquiries have indicated that given the number 
of stores and Franklins’ existing wholesale infrastructure, the proposed 
acquisition would eliminate the last real opportunity in the foreseeable future 
for a new entrant in the market for the wholesale supply of packaged 
groceries to independent retailers in NSW. 
84. 
Market inquiries have suggested that the time and scale barriers involved with 
establishing an entirely new wholesaling operation could be largely overcome 
by acquiring Franklins. Market participants noted that Franklins already has 
established wholesaling operations and the volume provided by a large 
network of retail outlets, both of which are crucial in establishing a rival 
wholesale business to Metcash.   
85. 
The ACCC is of the preliminary view that an acquisition of the Franklins 
business would present a unique opportunity for a new entrant as it 
overcomes significant hurdles faced in setting up a new wholesale business.   
 
14


Metcash Trading Limited - proposed acquisition of Franklins  
86. 
Market inquiries have also indicated that there are significant barriers to 
expansion in the market. Many Metcash-supplied retailers have signed 
medium to long term supply agreements with Metcash for the supply of 
grocery items. The ACCC has received information from market participants 
suggesting that the supply agreements effectively act as a barrier to 
independents switching to, or sourcing some products from, another 
wholesaler. 
87. 
Market participants have also raised concerns that Metcash intends to sell 
Franklins stores only to IGA retailers which sign supply agreements with 
Metcash and that Metcash is likely to take over the head lease at many of 
these stores. The ACCC considers that this would effectively tie the stores to 
Metcash so that they are not contestable by any new entrant to the wholesale 
market.   
88. 
The ACCC considers that such supply agreements, head lease arrangements, 
and any shareholdings by Metcash in retailers is likely to have the effect of 
increasing the already high barriers to entry in the market for the wholesale 
supply of packaged groceries to retailers. The proposed acquisition would 
strengthen Metcash’s dominant position in the market, and would remove an 
irreplaceably large pool of supermarkets, including many medium and large 
supermarkets, which may otherwise be contestable by a new wholesale 
competitor, thus making new wholesale entry even more unlikely.   
Constraint imposed by vertically integrated chains 
89. 
The ACCC also recognises that Metcash faces indirect competition from the 
vertically-integrated chains. Metcash must offer wholesale prices and services 
to independent retailers in a manner that enables the retailers to make a profit 
in the face of competition from the vertically-integrated chains.  
90. 
However, while competition with the vertically integrated chains does, to 
some extent constrain Metcash, the ACCC is concerned that independent 
retailers are in many cases unable to compete on price with the supermarkets 
of the vertically integrated chains. Market participants have indicated that this 
arises in part due to the prices at which they source their products, particularly 
packaged groceries, from Metcash. This in turn is partly attributed to 
Metcash’s incentives as a non-integrated wholesaler to maximise profits at the 
wholesale level, which contrasts with vertically integrated operators’ 
incentive to maximise total profits regardless of whether they are earned at 
the retail or the wholesale level.   
91. 
The ACCC found in the Grocery Inquiry that Metcash appears to set its 
wholesale prices to independent retailers under the retail pricing ‘umbrellas’ 
set by Coles and Woolworths. This wholesale pricing was found to limit the 
ability of independent retailers to aggressively pursue market share from 
Coles and Woolworths through price discounting.  
 
15


Metcash Trading Limited - proposed acquisition of Franklins  
92. 
In the ACCC’s view the risk of losing business to Franklins provides a 
significant constraint on Metcash over and above the indirect constraint 
imposed by the vertically-integrated chains.  
Other potential constraints 
93. 
The ACCC has considered whether there would remain any effective 
constraints on Metcash post-acquisition in the market. The ACCC notes that 
while there are other wholesalers of packaged groceries such as the 
Queensland-based SPAR, there appear to be a number of factors that would 
limit these wholesalers’ ability to constrain Metcash going forward. These 
factors include that the wholesalers: 
• have historically supplied smaller format stores; 
• have either a limited range or highly specialised range; and 
• are not in a geographic location suitable to service independent retailers 
in NSW. 
94. 
The ACCC does not consider that alternative banner groups would be able to 
effectively competitively constrain Metcash post-acquisition by establishing 
their own wholesaling operations. Even those banner groups with a large 
number of full line supermarkets are unlikely, on their own, to be in a position 
to bypass Metcash and offer wholesaling services to other independent 
retailers. The issues of scale and timing referred to above are relevant to this 
view.  
95. 
Market inquiries also noted that direct to store supply of the majority of 
products, in particular packaged groceries, is not a viable substitute to 
obtaining supply from a wholesaler. 
96. 
As noted above, while recognising the indirect competitive constraint on 
Metcash imposed by the vertically-integrated chains, the ACCC is of the view 
that this constraint is not sufficient to replace the threat of losing independent 
retailers to Franklins.  
Conclusion 
97. 
In light of the limited competitive constraints on Metcash post-acquisition and 
the height of barriers to entry, the ACCC is concerned that the proposed 
acquisition would remove the only alternative wholesale supplier able to 
supply full-line retailers and Metcash’s closest competitor in NSW.  
98. 
The proposed acquisition may also prevent enhanced competition by denying 
any other party the opportunity of utilising the effective wholesale 
distribution operations developed by Franklins and the large volumes 
accounted for by the existing Franklins stores as part of a strategy to enter the 
market as a competing wholesaler. 
 
16


Metcash Trading Limited - proposed acquisition of Franklins  
99. 
The ACCC is concerned that as a result of the proposed acquisition Metcash 
may be able to raise prices or reduce service levels to independent retailers 
compared to the counterfactual, as there would be insufficient competitive 
constraints post-acquisition to prevent this. Further, Metcash may not be 
forced as a result of competition to pass on benefits received as a result of the 
increased volume of products going through the Metcash warehouses as there 
would be no credible alternative to Metcash post-acquisition.  
100. The ACCC notes that these concerns arise when comparing the situation with 
the proposed acquisition against either counterfactual 1 or 2.  
101. Under counterfactual 3, Franklins would no longer represent an alternative to 
Metcash in the NSW market for the wholesale supply of packaged groceries.  
The competition outcome under counterfactual 3 in the wholesale market is 
likely to be different to the outcome under counterfactual 1 and 2.   
102. However, the ACCC notes that competition concerns may also arise under 
counterfactual 3. A sale of its stores by Franklins may result in stores being 
sold to independent retailers who would have the potential to join together to 
sponsor entry at the wholesale level. When compared with the situation with 
the proposed acquisition, this may enhance competition between 
supermarkets in certain local retail markets, and may also provide a potential 
retail base for the entry of a new wholesaler.  
The ACCC invites further information and specific examples in relation to 
whether you consider: 
- 
Franklins and Metcash are each other’s closest competitors for the supply of 
wholesale packaged grocery products to independent retailers in NSW; 
- 
Franklins as a wholesaler is a credible threat to Metcash, and constrains 
Metcash in its pricing to independent retailers;  
- 
Other wholesalers are likely to act as effective competitors to the merged 
entity for the supply of packaged grocery products to independent retailers, 
and whether it is likely that existing independent retailers or interstate 
wholesalers could set up a full scale wholesale operation in NSW; 
- 
The proposed acquisition would increase barriers to entry into grocery 
wholesaling, including by removing an established vertically integrated 
retail chain that could be utilised as a base for a new entrant; 
- 
The merged entity would be in a position to increase prices or decrease 
service levels for the supply of packaged groceries to independent retailers 
in a sustainable manner as a result of the proposed acquisition; and 
- 
The degree to which indirect competition from vertically-integrated chains 
would act to constrain Metcash from increasing prices to independent 
retailers post-acquisition. 
 
17


Metcash Trading Limited - proposed acquisition of Franklins  
Issues that may raise concerns 
Market for the distribution of grocery products via vertically integrated chains and 
independent wholesalers supplying independent retailers in NSW  
103. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition may raise 
competition concerns in the market for the distribution of grocery products 
(which includes both distribution via vertically integrated chains and by 
independent wholesalers supplying independent retailers), when compared 
with the likely situation without the proposed acquisition.  
104. While Metcash is to an extent constrained by vertically integrated 
supermarket chains, including Coles and Woolworths, the ACCC is 
concerned that the constraint imposed by the vertically integrated chains does 
not appear sufficiently strong to provide Metcash with the incentive to set its 
wholesale pricing at a level that enables independent retailers to compete 
strongly on price at a retail level with the vertically integrated chains.   
105. In the Grocery Inquiry, the ACCC found that: 
competition with the major supermarket chains does constrain Metcash. If Metcash 
raised its prices too far it would clearly damage the large independent retailers, who 
would stand to lose substantial amounts of business. This would in turn damage 
Metcash as its revenue would fall. 
However, the constraint of retail competition on Metcash’s wholesale pricing is not as 
strong a constraint as it would be on a vertically integrated company equivalent to the 
Metcash-independent retailers network.6
106. In relation to Franklins, the ACCC found that:  
the local presence of a Franklins store has a strong impact on the pricing of Coles, 
particularly for dry groceries. Franklins has only recently moved to a vertically 
integrated model of grocery wholesaling and retailing.7
107. The ACCC has received information that Franklins, as a vertically integrated 
retailer, has in the past and could in the future, provide a stronger constraint 
on the vertically integrated chains via price and promotional competition than 
Metcash-supplied independent stores.   
108. The ACCC has also received information, and notes information provided 
during the Grocery Inquiry, that suggests that while Franklins is able to 
compete strongly at the retail level, in contrast due to the pricing of products 
by Metcash, Metcash supplied independents are not able to compete on price 
with the vertically integrated retailers across all products.   
109. The ACCC found in the Grocery Inquiry that Franklins was better able to 
compete with Woolworths and Coles because it is vertically integrated. By 
comparison, as set out at paragraph 91 above, Metcash-supplied retailers 
                                                 
6 ACCC, Report of the ACCC inquiry into the competitiveness of retail prices for standard groceries, 
July 2008, p.154 
7 ACCC, Report of the ACCC inquiry into the competitiveness of retail prices for standard groceries, 
July 2008, p.171 
 
18


Metcash Trading Limited - proposed acquisition of Franklins  
indicated that the prices they paid for dry groceries prevented them from 
being price competitive with the vertically integrated retailers on these 
products.  
110. The ACCC notes that Metcash has incentives to maximise its profits at the 
wholesale level, rather than seeking to maximise joint profits across the retail 
and wholesale levels. This focus on profits at the wholesale level may limit 
the ability of Metcash supplied independent retailers to aggressively pursue 
market share from Coles and Woolworths through retail price discounting.  
111. Further, unlike vertically integrated chains which set their own retail prices, 
Metcash is limited in its ability to ensure that any wholesale price reduction it 
provides would be passed on to consumers by Metcash-supplied retailers. 
This further reduces the incentive for Metcash to lower the wholesale prices it 
charges retailers. 
112. The ACCC notes that Woolworths, Coles, ALDI, Franklins and Metcash-
supplied retailers currently compete in this market. Post-acquisition, the 
number of competitors in this market would be reduced from five to four.   
113. Market participants have indicated that Metcash supplied independents in 
NSW have historically been viewed as convenience-based outlets rather than 
full line supermarkets, and are seen by consumers as expensive with a limited 
range of products.   
114. The ACCC notes evidence from market participants has also indicated that 
Franklins supermarkets, unlike Metcash supplied independents, are generally 
regarded as full line supermarkets operating with a comparable range to other 
vertically integrated chains.  
115. The ACCC has received conflicting evidence as to Franklins’ competitiveness 
as a retailer. Certain market participants have submitted that Franklins has 
been, and remains, a vigorous competitor at the retail level. In addition, 
certain market participants have indicated that while Franklins is an 
aggressive retail competitor in terms of promotions and marketing, Metcash 
supplied independent retailers are not viewed in the same way. As part of 
Franklins’ marketing and promotions, the ACCC understands that the 
Franklins loyalty club is widely subscribed to and is used as a means of 
competing with other supermarket retailers.   
116. Conversely, the ACCC has also received information that suggests that due to 
financial difficulties, Franklins has struggled to compete with other retailers 
recently, and has become a weak competitor.   
117. Market participants have also expressed concern that Metcash may seek to 
sell the Franklins stores only to retailers willing to tie their stores to Metcash 
by allowing Metcash to hold the head lease for the retail store and/or signing 
a supply agreement or some other contractual agreement which has the effect 
of requiring the retailer to buy from Metcash.   
 
19


Metcash Trading Limited - proposed acquisition of Franklins  
118. The ACCC notes that Metcash is intending in the first instance to acquire the 
retail stores of Franklins, and would then on-sell them to independent 
retailers. 
119. Concerns have been raised that Metcash’s incentive and ability to sell the 
stores only to retailers who enter into contractual arrangements with Metcash, 
paired with the relatively less competitive pricing of Metcash supplied 
products, would have the effect of limiting the ability of these stores to 
compete aggressively. 
120. While competition with the vertically integrated chains does, to some extent, 
constrain Metcash, the ACCC is concerned that Metcash-supplied 
independent retailers are in many cases unable to compete on price with 
vertically integrated chains, and instead seek to rely on convenience of their 
location to attract local customers for ‘top-up’ shopping rather than full 
weekly ‘trolley’ shopping due to their relatively high prices. Market 
participants have indicated that this arises in part due to Metcash’s incentives 
as a non-integrated wholesaler to maximise profits at the wholesale level.   
121. The ACCC considers that the combination of the reduction in competitors 
from five to four and the weak competitive position of Metcash supplied 
independent retailers may raise competition concerns. 
122. The ACCC notes evidence that vertically integrated chains compete strongly 
against other vertically integrated chains. The ACCC is concerned that the 
loss of Franklins as a vertically integrated chain may also dampen 
competition between the remaining vertically integrated retailers in NSW. 
123. Nevertheless, the ACCC is continuing to explore the extent to which 
Franklins provides competitive tension, the ability of Franklins to provide the 
necessary base for any new entrant and other relevant factors prior to forming 
a concluded view on this issue.    
Barriers to entry and expansion 
124. The ACCC notes that the all of the barriers to entry outlined in relation to the 
previous market (at paragraphs 80-88) also apply in this market. In addition, 
the ACCC notes the scarcity of suitable sites and that the level of scale 
necessary to spread the sunk costs associated with establishing and operating 
a retail chain, such as branding, advertising and promotion; means that entry 
in this market is unlikely.   
The ACCC invites views on the analysis outlined above, and in particular further 
information and specific examples in relation to whether you consider: 
- 
Metcash supplied independent retailers are able to compete on price with 
vertically integrated supermarket chains;  
- 
The remaining vertically integrated chains would provide a sufficient 
competitive constraint on Metcash post-acquisition; 
 
20


Metcash Trading Limited - proposed acquisition of Franklins  
- 
Franklins provides a difference in range, service levels or price when 
compared to Metcash supplied independents; 
- 
Franklins is a particularly aggressive competitor at the retail level either on 
price, service, range or promotions; 
- 
The removal of the Franklins loyalty club program would have an impact on 
local competition; 
- 
Vertically integrated supermarkets compete strongly against other vertically 
integrated chains, and do not compete as strongly with non-vertically 
integrated chains; and  
- 
There are attributes other than price, such as service, that enable 
independent retailers to compete effectively with the vertically integrated 
supermarket chains. 
Wholesale market for the supply of fresh produce to independent supermarket 
operators in NSW 
125. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to 
raise horizontal competition concerns in the market for the wholesale supply 
of fresh produce (that is, the horizontal aggregation of the fresh produce 
wholesaling operations of Franklins and Metcash is unlikely to raise concerns 
in its own right).  
126. The ACCC notes that there would remain a number of fresh produce 
wholesalers and suppliers post-acquisition. 
127. However, some concerns have been raised by market participants in relation 
to possible conglomerate effects arising from Metcash’s increased presence in 
the wholesale packaged grocery market. 
128. Conglomerate effects occur across separate markets and affect the supply of 
products that are typically in some way related to each other, such as products 
that are in neighbouring markets or products that are complementary in either 
demand or supply.   
129. Conglomerate effects may raise concerns where the merged entity alters its 
operations or product offerings in a way that forecloses the merged entity’s 
rivals and ultimately reduces the competitive constraint they provide in 
related (or unrelated) markets. For example, the merged entity’s rivals may be 
foreclosed if the merged entity chooses to bundle or tie complementary 
products, such that customers receive additional benefits when they purchase 
or use the merged entity’s products together (e.g. due to discounts or rebates). 
130. Market participants have expressed some concern that, post-acquisition, 
Metcash’s dominant position as a wholesaler of packaged groceries would 
enable it to provide strong incentives for retailers to purchase their fresh 
produce requirements from IGA>F rather than competing fresh wholesalers. 
 
21


Metcash Trading Limited - proposed acquisition of Franklins  
131. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition may raise 
competition concerns by enabling Metcash to leverage its increased market 
power in the market for the wholesale supply of packaged grocery items to 
independent retail supermarkets into the wholesale market for the supply of 
fresh produce to independent retailers. Metcash may do this by tying the sale 
of fresh produce to packaged goods contractually or by offering the products 
in a bundle at a discount.  
132. To this end, the ACCC notes that Metcash already has a rebate system in 
place that rewards stores for purchasing over a certain percentage of their 
total purchases from IGA>D and IGA>F.   
133. The ACCC is concerned that post-acquisition Metcash may be in a position to 
require and/or incentivise independent retailers to purchase both fresh and 
packaged grocery items from Metcash and in turn lessen competition in the 
wholesale supply of fresh items to independent retailers by reducing the 
ability of retailers to choose the best available wholesale offer without risking 
losing rebates, paying higher prices or facing uncertainty of supply for 
packaged grocery items if they switch to a non-Metcash supplier for their 
fresh produce.   
134. Nevertheless, the ACCC is still exploring to what extent Metcash may be able 
to act in this manner, and is seeking further information prior to reaching a 
view.   
The ACCC invites views on the analysis outlined above, and in particular further 
information and specific examples in relation to whether you consider: 
- 
Metcash, post-acquisition, is likely to have any greater ability or incentive to 
bundle fresh grocery products with packaged grocery products, and if so, 
whether it is likely to achieve any sustainable competitive advantage from 
doing so;  
- 
Alternative fresh produce wholesalers would be limited in their ability to 
supply Metcash supplied independent retailers post-acquisition due to 
Metcash’s ability to link supply terms and rebates for packaged groceries to 
the acquisition of fresh produce from Metcash; and 
- 
Independent retailers currently purchase their fresh produce requirements 
from sources other than Metcash and Franklins, and if so, to what extent. 
Local retail markets  
135. Market inquiries have indicated that in certain local markets, Franklins and 
IGA are close competitors, and are unlikely to be closely constrained by other 
competitors post-acquisition. While the ACCC notes that Metcash intends to 
sell the Franklins stores to independent retailers, the existing Metcash 
supplied supermarkets and the ex-Franklins stores would then be supplied by 
a single wholesaler and would likely all be branded IGA, reducing the 
 
22


Metcash Trading Limited - proposed acquisition of Franklins  
differentiation between them and reducing the incentives for competition 
between the stores.   
136. The ACCC is concerned that in certain local markets, this may result in a 
substantial lessening of competition by reducing the competitive tension 
between Franklins retailers and Metcash supplied independent retailers.   
137. Barriers to entry to supermarket retailing are generally high. Market 
participants indicated that there are significant difficulties associated with 
obtaining suitable sites and planning permission, particularly in many 
metropolitan and suburban areas. In this regard, the ACCC considers that the 
key source of competitive constraint in each local market, post-merger, is 
likely to be the existing competitors in each area, although potential new 
entry provides some further constraint in areas where suitable sites are 
available. 
138. Therefore, the analysis of areas of concern focuses on existing local market 
structures. In assessing each local market on a preliminary basis, the ACCC 
has investigated the make-up of the market within a 5km radius8 of each 
Franklins supermarket. The ACCC then took into consideration: 
• the size of the supermarkets in each local market; 
• the number of remaining competitors to the supermarkets supplied by 
the merged entity;  
• the geographic make-up of particular local areas, including road 
networks; and 
• information received from market participants. 
139. The ACCC is of the preliminary view that competition concerns are likely to 
arise in the local market where the Springwood Franklins is located. The only 
supermarket within 5km of this Franklins store is a Supa IGA store, supplied 
by Metcash. These stores are each other’s closest competitors and there is no 
other nearby store imposing a strong competitive constraint on these stores. 
140. The ACCC is of the preliminary view that competition concerns may arise in 
the local markets relevant to the Marketland SC and Leeton Franklins 
supermarkets. In both cases there is a nearby Supa IGA store competing with 
the Franklins store. However, the ACCC notes that unlike Springwood, there 
are other competing supermarkets in these local markets which may prevent a 
substantial lessening of competition in these markets. The ACCC is therefore 
seeking further information about these and other local markets prior to 
forming a concluded view.  
 
                                                 
8 The ACCC has generally considered the geographic scope of local supermarket markets to be the area 
within a 3-5km radius surrounding the supermarket to be acquired. However, in assessing the relevant 
market in any supermarket acquisition the ACCC will consider geographic factors, such as the layout of 
roads in the area or the rural location of stores, which are potentially important when defining the 
geographic scope of a local market. 
 
23


Metcash Trading Limited - proposed acquisition of Franklins  
The ACCC invites market participants to comment on local retail markets 
Please provide comments on the following issues and preferably provide further 
information and specific examples in relation to whether specific Franklins retail 
stores currently compete closely with Metcash supplied independent stores and are 
unlikely to be constrained by other supermarket operators post-acquisition. 
The ACCC also invites comments from market participants in regard to the 
ACCC’s preliminary views on competition issues that may arise from the proposed 
acquisition of particular sites by Metcash. The ACCC invites market participants to 
comment on any other particular sites where they consider competition concerns are 
likely to arise as a result of the proposed acquisition.   
If you are providing comments about particular supermarket sites, please be as 
specific as possible in regards to the location of each site you are addressing. Please 
provide reasons for your view that the proposed acquisition of a particular site 
does/does not raise competition concerns. 
Issues unlikely to pose concerns 
 
Procurement market  
141. The ACCC has conducted a preliminary assessment to determine whether the 
proposed acquisition would lessen competition in the market for the 
procurement of products for sale in supermarkets. 
142. Supermarket chains compete with each other and with independent 
supermarket wholesalers to acquire products from growers and other 
producers for subsequent retail sale. The proposed acquisition would lead to 
an increase in the volume of supermarket products acquired by Metcash.   
143. The ACCC conducted market inquiries with a number of suppliers. However 
no significant competition concerns were raised in relation to the proposed 
acquisition’s likely effects on competition in this market.   
144. Given the size of the transaction relative to the participants in the 
procurement market, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed 
acquisition is unlikely to result in a substantial lessening of competition for 
the procurement of products sold in supermarkets.  
ACCC's future steps 
145. The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers market 
responses invited by this Statement of Issues. 
146. The ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on each of the 
issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that may be 
relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. 
 
24


Metcash Trading Limited - proposed acquisition of Franklins  
147. Submissions are to be received by the ACCC no later than 15 October 2010. 
The ACCC will consider the submissions received from the market and the 
merger parties in light of the issues identified above and will, in conjunction 
with information and submissions already provided by the parties, come to a 
final view in light of the issues raised above. 
148. The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 11 November 2010. 
However the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Merger Review 
Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose of 
explaining the ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's 
public announcement. 
  
 
 
25
