1
Wu, Connie
From:
Mergers
Sent:
Tuesday, 6 October 2020 11:30 AM
To:
Mergers
Subject:
Request for comment - Proposed merger between FGW Corporation Pty Ltd and 
Ampelite Australia Pty Ltd [SEC=OFFICIAL]
Security Classification:
OFFICIAL
OFFICIAL 
 
Dear interested party, 
 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is an independent statutory authority 
responsible for investigating whether proposed mergers are likely to substantially lessen competition. We 
are emailing you to seek your views on a proposed merger between Ampelite Australia Pty Ltd (Ampelite) 
and FGW Corporation Pty Ltd (FGW). 
 
Ampelite supplies fibreglass and polycarbonate roof sheeting products nationally. FGW supplies fibreglass 
and polycarbonate roof sheeting products in Western Australia. The parties propose to merge, by creating 
a new entity to take over the Ampelite WA businesses and the FGW business (the parties would cease 
operating as independent entities). 
 
We are particularly interested in your views on the following (please see the questions below). We would 
be happy to receive your response by email, or have a discussion with you over the phone. 
 
Questions 
 
1. What roof sheeting products do you currently buy, and from whom?  
2. Do you view fibreglass roof sheeting as substitutable for polycarbonate roof sheeting in their 
applications (e.g. industrial, commercial or residential)? If the price of fibreglass increased by 10-
15%, would you switch to polycarbonate?  
3. Do you view fibreglass or polycarbonate as substitutable for other roof sheeting products (e.g. 
corrugated iron, Colorbond or Zincaulme) with electric lighting, solar panel LED skylight or with 
transparent panels? If the price of fibreglass or polycarbonate increased by 10-15%, would you 
switch to other roof sheeting products? 
4. How closely do FGW and Ampelite currently compete (e.g. on price, quality, delivery time and range 
of their fibreglass and polycarbonate roof sheeting products)?  
5. If the merger went ahead, what do you think would be the likely impact on prices, quality or service 
levels? If you think it will change, why?  
6. Who else can you acquire fibreglass and/or polycarbonate roof sheeting from? How do they compare 
with Ampelite and FGW?  
7. Is it easy or difficult to switch suppliers of fibreglass and/or polycarbonate roof sheeting? 
8. Can fibreglass or polycarbonate roof sheeting be imported from interstate or overseas?  
9. How likely or easy would it be for a new firm to start supplying fibreglass roof sheeting in WA?  


2
10. Do you have any competition concerns regarding the proposed acquisition?  
Please provide a brief description of your business or organisation, outlining any reasons for your interest 
in the proposed merger, including any commercial relationship/s with either of Ampelite or FGW, it will help 
us to better understand your views.  
 
This matter is public and you can forward this email to anybody who may be interested. 
 
If you would like to make a comment, please do so by 5pm on 20 October by return email. Alternatively, 
you are welcome to email or call me on (08) 9325 0637, or call Julia Henry on 08 9325 0622, if you prefer 
to set up a phone call to discuss.   
 
The ACCC will treat any comments confidentially, and will not publish submissions regarding the proposed 
transaction. We will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) unless 
compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or during court proceedings) or in 
accordance with s155AAA of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010.  Where the ACCC is required to 
disclose confidential information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where possible so that you may have 
an opportunity to be heard.  Therefore, if the information provided to the ACCC is of a confidential nature, 
please indicate as such. Our Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on 
confidentiality.  
 
If you have any questions, please don’t hesitate to contact me.  
 
Kind regards 
Connie 
 
Connie Wu 
Assistant Director | Merger & Authorisation Review 
Australian Competition & Consumer Commission 
Level 5 | 1 William Street Perth 6000 | www.accc.gov.au 
T: + 61 8 9325 0637 
 
The ACCC acknowledges the traditional custodians of Country throughout Australia and recognises their continuing connection to 
the land, sea and community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures; and to their Elders past, present and future. 
 
 
 
