 
Land of the Wurundjeri people of the Kulin Nation
Level 17, 2 Lonsdale Street
Melbourne Vic 3000
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
Tel 03 9290 1800
www.accc.gov.au
 
 
 
Our ref: 
IM-72754 
 
11 December 2024 
 
 
 
Dear Interested Party 
Request for submissions: Mérieux NutriSciences’ proposed acquisition of a 51% interest in 
Bureau Veritas AsureQuality Holdings Pty Ltd 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on Mérieux 
NutriSciences’ (MXNS) proposed acquisition of a 51% interest in Bureau Veritas AsureQuality 
Holdings Pty Ltd (BVAQ) (the Proposed Acquisition).  
MXNS and BVAQ are both global providers of food safety and quality testing services, each 
operating laboratories in Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane and Perth. 
Further details regarding the Proposed Acquisition and the parties are provided at Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact that the Proposed Acquisition would have on 
competition in Australia. In particular, we are seeking your views on: 
• 
the closeness of competition between MXNS and BVAQ in the supply of food testing 
services in Australia 
• 
the availability of alternative suppliers of food testing services, and  
• 
the impact of the Proposed Acquisition on the supply of food testing services in Australia.  
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the Proposed Acquisition is in section 50 of 
the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are likely to have 
the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
Please provide your response by 5pm on Friday 10 January 2025 via email to 
mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: Submission re: MXNS - BVAQ. If you require more time to 
respond, please let us know.  
If you would like to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any questions about this letter, 
please contact mergers@accc.gov.au. 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public Mergers 
Register at (ACCC mergers register). 


 
2
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC treats sensitive information it receives during a merger review as confidential, and will not 
publish your submission. We will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) 
unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or during court 
proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC 
is required to disclose confidential information, we will notify you in advance where possible so that you 
have an opportunity to be heard. Therefore please clearly indicate if any information you provide is 
confidential. Our Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
 
Yours sincerely 
 
Morag Bond 
General Manager   
Merger Investigations  
 
 


 
3
Attachment A – Overview of the merger parties and the Proposed Acquisition 
MXNS 
MXNS is headquartered in Chicago, United States and is a subsidiary of Institute Mérieux, a 
French holding company owned by the Mérieux family.  
MXNS offers practical testing, auditing, consulting, certification and research solutions for 
the food industry and has a network of over 100 laboratories across 26 countries. 
In Australia, MXNS supplies food, water and pharmaceutical testing services.  
MXNS has four food testing laboratories in Australia:  
• 
a microbiology and chemistry lab in Sydney 
• 
a microbiology lab in Brisbane 
• 
a microbiology lab in Melbourne, and  
• 
a microbiology lab in Perth. 
BVAQ 
Bureau Veritas SA is a global laboratory testing, inspection and certification services 
company with headquarters located in Paris, France.  
Bureau Veritas SA operates 35 food testing laboratories across 15 countries and is the 
parent company of Bureau Veritas Singapore Pte Ltd (Bureau Veritas Singapore). 
BVAQ is a 51/49% joint venture between Bureau Veritas Singapore and AsureQuality Ltd 
(NZ) (AsureQuality). 
In Australia, BVAQ supplies food testing services and has six laboratories:  
• 
three labs in Melbourne (microbiology and chemistry)  
• 
a microbiology lab in Sydney 
• 
a microbiology lab in Brisbane, and  
• 
a microbiology lab in Perth. 
Areas of overlap 
In Australia, the parties overlap in the supply of food safety and quality testing to ensure 
foods are safe for consumption and to provide information about the characteristics and 
composition of food.  
The supply of food testing services in Australia is broadly split into 2 types of analysis: 
microbiology and chemistry testing. Microbiological testing is the examination of the 
microscopic organisms in food (to check food is safe for consumption). Chemical testing of 
food involves the examination of the chemical composition of food to provide information 
about the characteristics of food including composition and structure (e.g. to assess the 
nutritional content). 
The Proposed Acquisition 
MXNS proposes to acquire 51% of the issued share capital of BVAQ from Bureau Veritas 
Singapore.  


 
4
The remaining 49% of the issued share capital of BVAQ held by AsureQuality will not be acquired 
as part of the Proposed Acquisition. 
 


 
5
Attachment B – List of Questions 
1. Please provide a brief description of your business or organisation. 
2. Outline the reasons for your interest in the Proposed Acquisition, including any 
commercial relationship(s) with MXNS or BVAQ. 
Food testing services in Australia 
3. Describe how closely MXNS and BVAQ compete in the supply of food testing services in 
Australia. In your response, please comment on: 
a. the different types of food testing (for example, microbiology and chemical testing) that 
MXNS and BVAQ supply 
b. the importance of the locations from which MXNS and BVAQ provide services, and 
c. any other aspects such as the scope of accreditation, experience, proficiency and 
capability. 
4. Identify and describe alternative suppliers of food testing services in Australia, including with 
reference to factors such as price, location, scope of accreditation, experience and capability, 
and how closely they compete with MXNS and/or BVAQ.  
5. If you are a customer of food testing services, how important is it to acquire microbiology and 
chemical testing services from the same supplier? To what extent do you source food testing 
services from different suppliers? 
6. What are the main factors  customers consider in selecting a food testing service? Please 
comment on aspects such as price, service quality, expertise, location, data and reporting 
capabilities, turnaround time and customer service.  
7. Specifically, how important is the geographic location of a laboratory for selecting a supplier of 
microbiology or chemical food testing services? Are there any scenarios where a customer is 
able to use a laboratory overseas for food testing? Please outline any additional costs or risks 
with using services overseas. 
8. Please describe the process customers undertake to switch suppliers of food testing services, 
including the cost and time to switch. How frequently does switching occur?  
In-house food testing 
9. Please comment on the extent to which in-house testing (where food manufacturers self-
supply testing in their own labs) is an alternative option to using third-party suppliers of food 
testing services. In your response, please identify any particular food testing services that can 
or cannot be conducted in-house, and whether in-house testing is more common in particular 
food sectors. 
Entry and expansion 
10. What are the barriers to entering the supply of food testing services in Australia and the costs 
of an existing supplier expanding the volume of services supplied and/or scope of services? 
You may wish to identify factors relevant to each of microbiology and chemistry testing, and 
comment on: 


 
6
a. required equipment, facility and staffing expertise 
b. set-up costs for a new entrant or expansion costs for an existing competitor 
c. timeframes for new entry or expansion 
d. whether new entrants need to secure customers before entry, the minimum scale 
required for new entry, and any barriers to securing customers, and 
e. regulatory or other requirements or barriers to entry or expansion. 
Other information or competition issues 
11. Please provide any additional information or comments that you consider relevant to the 
ACCC’s consideration of the Proposed Acquisition. 
