 
 
 
Statement of Issues 
20 October 2022 
 Forestry Corporation of NSW – proposed acquisition of Hume 
Forests Ltd  
Purpose 
1. 
Forestry Corporation of NSW (FCNSW) proposes to submit a bid to acquire the assets 
of Hume Forests Ltd (Hume) (the proposed acquisition). Through the proposed 
acquisition, FCNSW would acquire Hume’s softwood log plantations in the 
Tumut/Tumbarumba and Bathurst/Oberon regions. 
2. 
This Statement of Issues: 
• 
gives the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission’s (ACCC) 
preliminary views on competition issues arising from the proposed acquisition,  
• 
identifies areas of further inquiry, and 
• 
invites interested parties to submit comments and information to assist the 
ACCC’s assessment of the issues. 
3. 
Statements of Issues do not refer to confidential information provided by the parties or 
other market participants and therefore may not fully articulate the ACCC’s preliminary 
position. 
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views 
4. 
In considering the proposed acquisition, the ACCC applies the legal test set out in 
section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the CCA). In general terms, 
section 50 prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to have the 
effect, of substantially lessening competition in any market. 
5. 
The ACCC divides its preliminary views into three categories, 'issues of concern', 
'issues that may raise concerns' and ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’. In this 
Statement of Issues there is one issue of concern. 
Issue of concern: Increase in concentration in the Tumut/Tumbarumba and 
Bathurst/Oberon regions  


Forestry Corporation of NSW – proposed acquisition of Hume Forests Ltd 
 
Page 2 of 16 
 
 
6. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is likely to substantially 
lessen competition in the supply of softwood logs in each of the Tumut/Tumbarumba 
and Bathurst/Oberon regions (the regions) of NSW. The proposed acquisition will 
remove Hume as a significant alternative supplier of softwood logs in markets which 
are already highly concentrated. 
7. 
The proposed acquisition may lead to higher prices or reduced service levels (such as 
log quality and delivery times) for softwood logs over the long term relative to what 
would be the case under current or likely alternative ownership.  
Making a submission 
8. 
The ACCC invites submissions from interested parties, particularly on the following key 
issues: 
• 
the nature and extent of competition between FCNSW and Hume (together, the 
parties), and 
• 
whether the proposed acquisition is likely to lead to price increases or reductions 
in service.  
9. 
Interested parties should provide submissions by no later than 5pm on 
3 November 2022. Responses may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: 
Submission re: Forestry Corporation of NSW proposed acquisition of Hume Forests 
Ltd - attention Marisa Kuhlewein. If you would like to discuss the matter with ACCC 
officers over the telephone or in person, or have any questions about this Statement of 
Issues, please contact Marisa Kuhlewein on (07) 3835 4668. 
10. 
The ACCC anticipates making a final decision on 27 January 2023, however, this 
timeline can change. To keep abreast of possible changes in relation to timing and to 
find relevant documents, interested parties should visit the Mergers Register on the 
ACCC's website at www.accc.gov.au/public-registers/mergers-registers/public-
informal-merger-reviews. 
Confidentiality of submissions 
11. 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We will not 
disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) unless 
compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or during court 
proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the CCA. Where the ACCC is required 
to disclose confidential information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where 
possible so that you may have an opportunity to be heard. Therefore, please identify 
any confidential information that is provided to the ACCC. Our Informal Merger Review 
Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’ 
12. 
A Statement of Issues is not a final decision about a proposed acquisition. A 
Statement of Issues outlines the ACCC’s preliminary views and identifies further lines 
of inquiry. 


Forestry Corporation of NSW – proposed acquisition of Hume Forests Ltd 
 
Page 3 of 16 
 
 
13. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide the 
merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 
Glossary of terms 
Softwood:  
Wood from gymnosperm trees such as pine, cedar and 
Douglas fir. In Australia, most softwood timber is Pinus 
Radiata.  
Softwood logs:  
The range of logs produced by a softwood plantation, 
including conventional sawlog, industrial grade log and 
pulpwood.  
Pulpwood logs:  
Small diameter, low grade logs used to manufacture 
woodchips, ‘roundwood’ products such as posts and poles, 
paper, particleboard and medium density fiberboard.   
Non-structural 
(industrial) logs:  
Logs that are of non-standard short lengths and/or that have 
excessive knot or sweep parameters. Used for processing 
into non-structural timber (such as pallets, fencing and 
landscaping products). 
Structural Sawlogs:  
Sections of a tree that are of a suitable size and quality for 
processing into sawn timber products by a timber mill – 
structural sawlog is produced in a range of sizes and is 
typically larger, straighter and with fewer knots and 
imperfections compared to industrial grade log or pulpwood.  
 
The parties 
FCNSW 
14. 
FCNSW owns and operates more than 230,000 hectares of softwood timber 
plantations and just under 35,000 hectares of hardwood timber plantations in NSW. 
FCNSW is the largest producer of softwood logs in NSW with plantations across 
Bathurst, Bombala, Grafton, Moss Vale, Tallaganda, Tumut and Walcha. It owns in 
excess of 70% of all softwood plantations in the state.   


Forestry Corporation of NSW – proposed acquisition of Hume Forests Ltd 
 
Page 4 of 16 
 
 
15. 
FCNSW manages approximately 93,000 hectares of productive softwood plantation 
area in the Tumut/Tumbarumba region and approximately 74,000 hectares in the 
Bathurst/Oberon region. 
16. 
FCNSW is a state-owned statutory corporation under the State Corporations Act 1989 
(NSW), which establishes commercial businesses on behalf of the people of NSW. 
The objectives of FNCSW are outlined in section 10 of the Forestry Act 2012 (NSW).1 
Hume Forests Ltd (Hume) 
17. 
Global fund manager, Global Forests Partners LP (GFP) established Hume, on behalf 
of investors, in 2004 through the acquisition of existing plantations. Hume’s plantations 
are located between the Tumut/Tumbarumba and Bathurst/Oberon regions of NSW. 
They comprise approximately 19,000 ha of freehold land, with a net plantation area of 
approximately 14,000 ha. 
18. 
In addition to the softwood plantation estates, the sale also includes existing 
agreements relating to its operations. These include customer contracts, forestry 
contracting agreements and other ancillary assets (such as fire trucks and a storage 
depot).  
19. 
Figure 1 below identifies forest areas in NSW with softwood plantations in blue. The 
Bathurst and Tumut plantation regions are identified. The Walcha plantation region is 
to the north of Bathurst and the Bombala region to the south-east of Tumut.  
Figure 1: Map of NSW Forestry regions2 
 
 
1 Section 10(a)(i), Forestry Act 2012 (NSW).  
2 Forestry NSW, Forests, all about wood, 2011. 


Forestry Corporation of NSW – proposed acquisition of Hume Forests Ltd 
 
Page 5 of 16 
 
 
Other industry participants 
Softwood Suppliers 
20. 
In addition to FCNSW and Hume, other suppliers of softwood in the 
Tumut/Tumbarumba region include Snowy Mountains Forests and Southern Cross 
Forests (both managed by GFP on behalf of investors), ACT PCS, New Forests 
Murray River Forests and AgriWealth. There are also a number of small-scale 
plantations in the region.  
21. 
In Bathurst/Oberon, the only large supplier in addition to the parties is Plantation Pine 
Products, which is vertically integrated with Borg (discussed below). There are also a 
number of small-scale plantations in this region.  
22. 
In north-eastern Victoria, Hancock Victoria Plantations has significant plantations 
around Shelley and Myrtleford.   
Softwood Customers  
23. 
The following customers have operations in the Tumut/Tumbarumba region:  
• 
Visy is a privately owned paper, packaging and recycling company that operates 
in the Tumut/Tumbarumba region. Visy requires pulpwood logs for its processing 
operations. Visy has a significant position in the softwood industry in NSW.  
• 
Hyne Timber is one of Australia’s largest producers of sawn timber products. 
Relevantly, Hyne acquires sawlogs for use in its mill at Tumbarumba.  
• 
AKD Softwoods is a producer of framing and construction timber. Relevantly, it 
acquires sawlogs for use in its mill at Tumut. AKD also owns plantation land in 
both the Tumut and Oberon regions. 
24. 
The following customers have operations in the Bathurst/Oberon region: 
• 
ATP NSW is owned by AAM Investment Group. The ACCC understands ATP 
NSW primarily uses small sawlog for its mill at Bathurst.  
• 
Highland Pine Products is a 50:50 joint venture between AKD Softwoods and 
Pentarch Forestry. Highland Pine Products mills timber to be used as house 
frames and trusses, for which it requires structural sawlog.    
• 
Plantation Pine Products (PPP) is owned by Borg, a manufacturer of particleboard 
and medium density fibreboard created using pulpwood. PPP also own softwood 
plantations in the Bathurst/Oberon region.  
• 
Australian United Timbers sells a range of timber products, in particular 
landscaping products. It has a mill at Burraga using non-structural (industrial) 
logs.  
25. 
Softwood customers outside the two regions may also acquire softwood logs from the 
regions. Such customers include:  


Forestry Corporation of NSW – proposed acquisition of Hume Forests Ltd 
 
Page 6 of 16 
 
 
• 
Capital Battens has a mill in Canberra, and principally sells battens for roof tiles 
• 
Hayters has a mill in Werombi, near Campbelltown, and sells a range of timber 
products 
• 
Penrose Pine Productions has a mill in Penrose, between Canberra and Sydney, 
and uses sawlog to produce a range of timber products. 
Industry background 
Softwood Timber Supply Chain 
26. 
Softwood has a growing cycle of up to about 28 to 32 years to reach sawlog maturity. 
During this cycle, the plantation is periodically thinned to remove weaker trees and 
promote the growth of stronger trees. As a result, softwood plantations typically 
produce a range of log grades:  
• 
Pulpwood logs: Harvested at the first thinning of a plantation at 12-14 years and 
making up a proportion of subsequent harvests. Pulpwood includes small 
diameter, low grade logs and is used to manufacture woodchips, ‘roundwood’ 
products such as posts and poles, paper, particleboard and medium density 
fibreboard (MDF).  
• 
Non-structural (industrial) sawlogs: Generally produced from larger logs 
harvested during thinning's or from the treetops at final harvest, used for 
processing into non-structural timber (such as pallets, fencing and landscaping 
products) or for exporting as unprocessed logs; and 
• 
Structural sawlogs: Generally harvested at 25-30 years. Generally produced 
from final ‘clear felling’ and suitable for structural timber production, such as 
house frames.  
27. 
Customers are mills or processors which refine finished products, as shown in Figure 2 
below. There are a range of end uses for softwood timber, from paper to house 
frames. 
Forecast softwood supply shortfalls and impact of the 2019-2020 bushfires 
28. 
A February 2019 research report by the Australian Bureau of Agricultural and 
Resource Economics (ABARES) identified a likely shortfall of softwood sawlog 
production in NSW, reaching as much as 3.4 million cubic metres in 2050 (annual 
Australian demand for softwood logs is approximately 4.5 million cubic metres at 
present).3  
 
3 Whittle, l, Lock, P & Hug, B 2019, Economic potential for new plantation establishment in Australia: outlook to 2050, ABARES 
research report, Canberra, February.  


Forestry Corporation of NSW – proposed acquisition of Hume Forests Ltd 
 
Page 7 of 16 
 
 
29. 
Extreme bushfires impacted NSW in 2019-20. Over five million hectares across NSW 
were affected by the fires, including significant areas of softwood plantation in the 
Tumut/Tumbarumba region.4 
30. 
Consequently, wood supply has fallen significantly. Market participants submit there is 
an undersupply relative to current strong demand for downstream softwood timber 
products.   
 
 
4 NSW Department of Planning and Environment, Understanding the effects of the 2019-20 fires 30 August 2021. 


Forestry Corporation of NSW – proposed acquisition of Hume Forests Ltd 
 
Page 8 of 16 
 
 
Figure 2: Softwood timber supply chain5 
  
 
5 Softwoods Working Group, Presentation to Cootamundra-Gundagai Council, 11 May 2018. 


Forestry Corporation of NSW – proposed acquisition of Hume Forests Ltd 
 
Page 9 of 16 
 
 
Previous ACCC decisions 
31. 
On 20 May 2021, the ACCC announced it would not oppose New Forests Asset 
Management Pty Ltd proposal to acquire the softwood plantation assets of Global 
Forests Partners LP in the Green Triangle region of south-west Victoria. The ACCC 
concluded the acquisition would be unlikely to result in a substantial lessening of 
competition.  
32. 
The ACCC found that the relevant markets were already highly concentrated. 
However, the ACCC concluded the acquisition was unlikely to substantially lessen 
competition in any market. In reaching this decision, the ACCC noted the contracting 
practices, long-term supply cycles and OneFortyOne holding the largest share of 
plantation area in the region post-acquisition meant that the acquisition was unlikely to 
interfere with competitive dynamics in the market for log supply. 
The proposed transaction 
33. 
FCNSW proposes to acquire the assets of Hume. The target is being sold in a 
competitive bid process.  
Future with and without the acquisition  
34. 
In assessing a proposed acquisition under section 50 of the CCA, the ACCC considers 
the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future state of competition if the 
acquisition proceeds (the ’with’ position) to the likely future state of competition if the 
acquisition does not proceed (the ‘without’ position) to determine whether the 
proposed acquisition is likely to substantially lessen competition in any relevant 
market. 
35. 
On the basis of the information currently available, the ACCC considers the future 
without the proposed acquisition will be the status quo or acquisition by an alternative 
buyer. Hume is being sold in a competitive bid process so there may be a range of 
potential alternative owners.  
36. 
The ACCC is considering whether alternative bidders may be likely to convert the 
Hume plantation estate into agricultural land. There are likely a range of factors which 
inform such decisions, including the suitability for and productivity of the land in 
agricultural use and the cost of rehabilitation relative to replanting. This is an issue the 
ACCC will explore further in its review.  
Areas of overlap and relevant markets 
37. 
FCNSW and Hume overlap in the supply of softwood logs in the Bathurst/Oberon and 
Tumut/Tumbarumba regions of NSW.  
38. 
The ACCC has not formed a concluded view on market definition. Its preliminary view 
is that the relevant markets are for the supply of softwood logs in each of the 
Tumut/Tumbarumba and Bathurst/Oberon regions of NSW.  


Forestry Corporation of NSW – proposed acquisition of Hume Forests Ltd 
 
Page 10 of 16 
 
 
Product dimension 
39. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the relevant product market is for the supply of 
softwood logs. This is the area of overlap between FCNSW and Hume in each of the 
regions.  
40. 
However, the ACCC is considering whether there may be separate markets for the 
supply of softwood pulpwood logs, softwood non-structural (industrial) sawlogs and 
softwood structural sawlogs   
41. 
There are a range of sub-categorisations market participants use for softwood logs. 
For example, the KPMG Australian Pine Log Price Index refers to small sawlogs, 
intermediate sawlogs, medium sawlogs, large sawlogs, preservation logs, pulplogs 
and salvage logs. On the other hand, some market participants use distinctions such 
as large and small sawlog, industrial sawlog, pulplog and veneer log.  
42. 
On the supply side, distinctions between the different categories are determined by the 
size of the tree, the relevant segment of the tree and the quality of the tree, amongst 
other factors.  
43. 
On the demand side, the ACCC understands some customers are limited to specific 
categories of timber, while others may use one or more, subject to price. For example, 
some sawlog customers require large, high-quality logs for structural timber and 
cannot use other categories of softwood. Others, such as pulpwood log customers, 
can use higher quality softwood, subject to price. Accordingly, there may be 
asymmetric substitution between the softwood categories.  
Geographic dimension of the market 
44. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that there are likely to be separate geographic 
markets for the Tumut/Tumbarumba and Bathurst/Oberon regions.  
45. 
High transport costs relative to the product value mean that customers have a strong 
preference to source softwood locally. Although this preference will likely vary across 
the different product types and will be stronger for lower value pulpwood than higher 
value sawlog. The ACCC considers that plantations geographically close to each other 
are likely to be close competitive constraints on each other, whereas those further 
away are likely to be weaker constraints.  
46. 
Due to the present undersupply of softwood logs, customers have recently been 
sourcing structural sawlog from distances of up to 800 km, and softwood pulpwood 
logs from up to 500 km away. Some customers have sourced significant volumes of 
softwood over far greater distances than they have historically done so.   
47. 
As the bushfires destroyed softwood trees, these supply and demand conditions may 
be persistent for the next decade or more. Customers may therefore have to continue 
sourcing softwood logs from greater distances than they have historically done so. 
This may suggest the geographic dimension of the market has permanently expanded.  
48. 
However, the ACCC understands that prior to the bushfires, transporting softwood logs 
over these distances was relatively rare. Market participants have submitted to the 


Forestry Corporation of NSW – proposed acquisition of Hume Forests Ltd 
 
Page 11 of 16 
 
 
ACCC that the current long transport distances for some supply is uneconomic and 
unsustainable.  
49. 
The ACCC has not formed a final view on the appropriate geographic dimension of the 
market/s and will explore this issue further.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary views about the 
definition of the relevant market(s). In particular, market participants may wish to comment 
on the following: 
• 
Whether it is appropriate to consider a ‘softwood logs’ product market, or whether a 
narrower categorisation may be more appropriate.  
• 
To what extent can sawmills and wood processors substitute between the product 
categories the ACCC is considering (pulpwood, non-structural (industrial) sawlog and 
structural sawlog). For example, can pulpwood logs be substituted with non-structural 
(industrial) sawlogs, and vice versa.  
• 
Whether the geographic boundary of softwood supply has permanently expanded given 
ongoing supply constraints and, therefore, whether the ACCC should consider a broader 
geographic market definition. 
• 
Whether sourcing softwood over longer distances than has historically occurred is 
sustainable and, if not, how ongoing supply constraints will affect customers. 
• 
What transport costs are involved in transporting softwood logs and typical per tonne per 
kilometre costs.  
• 
Whether plantations geographically proximate to a customer facility are stronger 
competitors to supply that customer than plantations at longer distances.    
Issue of concern:  Increase in concentration in the 
Tumut/Tumbarumba and Bathurst/Oberon regions 
50. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is likely to substantially 
lessen competition in each of the regions due to the material increase in concentration 
in already highly concentrated markets. Competition effects may play out over the very 
long term given the nature of this industry. In this context, the proposed acquisition 
may represent a significant and permanent structural change in the industry.   
51. 
The ACCC’s preliminary views are that:  
• 
FCNSW is the dominant softwood log supplier in each region and throughout 
NSW 
• 
price and non-price competition between plantations can play out over both the 
short-to-medium term (in this case up to 10 years) and the long term 


Forestry Corporation of NSW – proposed acquisition of Hume Forests Ltd 
 
Page 12 of 16 
 
 
• 
the proposed acquisition removes a material competitor to FCNSW and may have 
a significant effect on competition in both the short-to-medium term and the long 
term 
• 
there is no prospect of meaningful entry or expansion providing competitive 
constraint in the short-to-medium term as new plantations take many years to 
reach maturity  
• 
FCNSW’s dominant position in the relevant markets is likely to be enduring. 
Softwood plantation areas in the relevant markets have been relatively steady 
over time and there is a low prospect of a material expansion in the long term 
• 
large customers likely have some buyer power, but this would not prevent 
competitive harm from occurring 
• 
downstream import competition may constrain softwood log prices in some 
circumstances 
• 
FCNSW’s statutory obligations may restrain it from exercising market power to a 
degree, until any privatisation of FCNSW, or amendment that lessens FCNSW’s 
statutory obligations.  
FCNSW is the dominant softwood log supplier in the two regions and throughout 
NSW 
52. 
The supply of softwood logs in the two regions is already highly concentrated. FCNSW 
is the dominant supplier of softwood in each region. Estimates from market 
participants suggest it accounts for over 60 per cent of the plantation area in the Tumut 
/ Tumbarumba region and over 75 per cent of the plantation area in the Bathurst / 
Oberon region. Market participants have submitted that FCNSW acts as a price leader 
with its prices influencing the market more broadly.     
53. 
Hume is the only alternative of significant size in the Bathurst/Oberon region and one 
of the few alternatives of significant size in the Tumut/Tumbarumba region. It is 
therefore an important competitor to FCNSW.  
54. 
Post-acquisition, three or four forestry owners of similar size to Hume would remain in 
the Tumut/Tumbarumba region. These are (in order of plantation area from largest to 
smallest): Snowy Mountains Forests, ACT Forests, Southern Cross Forests and New 
Forests Murray River Forests. These plantations will likely continue providing some 
competitive constraint in this region post-acquisition.  
55. 
Competitive constraint within the Bathurst/Oberon region is more limited. In the 
Bathurst/Oberon region, market feedback indicates that post-acquisition the remaining 
plantation area would be held by the vertically integrated Plantation Pine Products and 
a range of small-scale plantation owners. Plantation Pine Products is likely to direct 
pulpwood to its related entity, Borg, and is therefore unlikely a constraint with respect 
to pulpwood.  


Forestry Corporation of NSW – proposed acquisition of Hume Forests Ltd 
 
Page 13 of 16 
 
 
56. 
Following the bushfires, customers have sought softwood logs from further afield than 
has historically been the case. Hancock Timber in Victoria is supplying significant 
volumes of timber to at least one customer in the Tumut/Tumbarumba region.  
57. 
However, high transport costs relative to the value of the product means sourcing 
timber from these further afield regions is an inefficient alternative to supply from each 
of the Tumut/Tumbarumba and Bathurst/Oberon regions. Supply from these regions 
further afield may therefore be a weak competitive constraint compared to local 
competitors.  
58. 
Market feedback indicates it is not viable to import softwood logs from Tasmania or 
overseas.  
Price and non-price competition between plantations plays out over the long term 
59. 
The ACCC understands that competition occurs gradually over long periods of time on 
price and non-price terms. Plantations and customers react to supply and demand 
conditions in their contract negotiations. There tends to be limited direct head-to-head 
competition in relation to specific contracts given the nature of the industry.  
60. 
Plantations generally do not compete with one another to supply specific customers. 
Rather, customers compete to secure contracts from plantations through requests for 
proposal tenders or bi-lateral negotiations.  
61. 
The industry is also characterised by infrequent tendering and large, long-term 
contracting, in particular by FCNSW. The ACCC understands that a significant 
proportion of FCNSW’s softwood log in the two regions is committed under long-term 
contracts. Some market participants refer to long and short-term contracts, and spot 
transactions. 
62. 
Each new contract has reference to recent outcomes (to the extent market participants 
have visibility of such outcomes) and other market conditions. For example, market 
participants indicated plantations and customers have reference to existing supply 
agreements and the Australian Pine Log Price Index (PLP) when determining what 
they will accept or offer respectively for softwood.6 The PLP presents data from a 
survey of price outcomes for large plantation owners, including Forestry Corporation 
and Hancock Timber.  
63. 
The ACCC has also received submissions suggesting plantation owners may also 
respond to one another by timing when and how they market their softwood to 
maximise returns. This may include contracting well in advance of the timber reaching 
maturity, harvesting timber early or deferring harvest. However, there are economic 
implications to early or late harvests, as the timber will not be at optimal harvest age 
and therefore may not maximise returns over time (subject to prices achieved in the 
short term).  
64. 
Market feedback has strongly indicated that in the current undersupply conditions, 
customers consider they are price-takers. Base prices for timber contracts have 
increased significantly, in addition to price increases as a result of annual indexation 
for inflation and transport costs. This may suggest plantation owners are exercising 
 
6 KPMG, Australian Pine Log Price Index (Stumpage), December 2020.  


Forestry Corporation of NSW – proposed acquisition of Hume Forests Ltd 
 
Page 14 of 16 
 
 
market power at present. If this is indeed the case, any further lessening of competition 
could be significant to the competitive process in this industry. 
65. 
A number of customers raised strong concerns that FCNSW may use Hume’s 
uncontracted softwood to meet its existing contractual commitments. This would deny 
other customers access to Hume’s volumes, at a time when the market is supply 
constrained. On this issue, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that while this is an 
understandable concern for market participants, unfavourable allocations of Hume’s 
softwood logs does not necessarily reflect a loss of competition between FCNSW and 
Hume. 
66. 
The ACCC will continue exploring the nature and extent of competition in these 
regions. In light of the severe softwood supply shortages in New South Wales and the 
nature of the industry, the ACCC is considering these issues with a long-term time 
horizon of 25 years or more. 
There is no prospect of meaningful new entry or expansion providing competitive 
constraint in the foreseeable future  
67. 
New plantations take decades to reach maturity such that new entry will not impact 
market conditions except in the very long term. Entry or expansion would only have 
effects once the softwood reaches maturity at between 12-14 years for pulpwood and 
industrial grade logs, and 28-32 years for sawlogs. 
68. 
There also appear to be significant barriers to entry for the supply of softwood logs, 
even in the very long term. There has been limited new entry and no material increase 
in softwood timber plantation area in the last decade in NSW. Entry barriers include 
the high cost of purchasing land for plantations, which reflects the value of the land 
under alternative agricultural use. Long lead times between planting and harvest may 
also introduce risk for plantations without contractual commitments from a customer. 
69. 
Carbon credits may improve the profitability of plantations and facilitate new entry. To 
date, the existing programs do not appear to have significantly impacted the size of the 
softwood plantation estate.  
70. 
The ACCC is, therefore, considering whether existing plantation estate is more likely to 
be replanted after harvest than agricultural land being converted to plantations. This 
may suggest new entry of significant scale is unlikely and existing plantation owners, 
such as Hume, will be the only significant competitors even in the very long term.  
Large customers likely have buyer power  
71. 
A small number of sawmills and wood processors account for a significant proportion 
of demand for softwood in the Bathurst/Oberon and Tumut/Tumbarumba. For 
example, the only customers for pulpwood within each of the Tumut/Tumbarumba and 
Bathurst/Oberon regions are Visy and Borg respectively.  
72. 
Such customers may have buyer power given their significant size. However, the 
ACCC’s preliminary view is that even if there is buyer power, it is not sufficient to 
prevent the proposed acquisition from resulting in competitive harm. Price and non-
price outcomes for customers will likely be better with competition than without. 


Forestry Corporation of NSW – proposed acquisition of Hume Forests Ltd 
 
Page 15 of 16 
 
 
Downstream imports may constrain prices to a degree 
73. 
Imports of downstream softwood timber products (e.g. paper, particleboard, structural 
timber etc.) may impose some constraint on upstream softwood log prices. To the 
extent downstream imports constrain prices for end products, this may impact what 
customers are able to pay for softwood logs.   
74. 
The ACCC understands this constraint varies year to year depending on supplies in 
foreign countries and from product to product depending on Australian standards. At 
present, imports for some products are limited due to international supply and shipping 
constraints. 
75. 
However, to the extent there is such a constraint, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that it 
is not sufficient to prevent a substantial lessening of competition. Even if this constraint 
is significant, price and non-price outcomes for customers will likely be better with 
competition than without.  
FCNSW’s statutory obligations may constrain restrain it from exercising its market 
power until privatisation 
76. 
The ACCC is considering the extent to which FCNSW’s statutory obligations restrain it 
from exercising market power.  
77. 
There may be some evidence of such a constraint at present. Market participants 
submitted FCNSW generally offers softwood at lower prices than other plantation 
owners, which may be a result of its statutory mandate. It is unclear at this stage 
precisely why FCNSW may price below other market participants or whether the 
ACCC can have confidence such pricing will continue in future.  
78. 
However, it is unclear to what extent the ACCC can rely on FCNSW’s statutory 
obligations to prevent competitive harm. FCNSW is a state-owned corporation and, as 
such, has one of its four principal objectives to operate as “a successful business and, 
to this end … operate at least as efficiently as any comparable business”. Achieving 
competition objectives is not a statutory obligation of FCNSW.  
79. 
The statutory obligations are also subject to amendment, or abolition if FCNSW is 
privatised. It is unclear if or when FCNSW will be privatised.  
The proposed acquisition removes a material competitor to FCNSW and may have a 
substantial impact on competition in the long term 
80. 
Taking the above analysis into consideration, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the 
proposed acquisition is likely to substantially lessen competition due to effects on 
competition in the long term.  
81. 
FCNSW has a dominant position in the supply of softwood logs in NSW and there are 
few competitors of significant scale in the Tumut/Tumbarumba and Bathurst/Oberon 
regions. The proposed acquisition will reduce choice for customers and may affect 
price and non-price outcomes for softwood log contracts in the long term.  


Forestry Corporation of NSW – proposed acquisition of Hume Forests Ltd 
 
Page 16 of 16 
 
 
82. 
As discussed above, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that possible constraint from 
buyer power, downstream imports and FCNSW’s statutory obligations, are unlikely to 
be sufficient to prevent a substantial lessening of competition.  
83. 
The ACCC will explore the likely effect of the proposed acquisition on competition 
further.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary competition 
assessment outlined above. In particular, market participants may wish to comment on: 
• 
Examples of plantation owners directly constraining one another with respect to price or 
service offerings to customers.  
• 
How competition plays out in this industry.   
• 
Whether and via what mechanisms prices reflect competition between plantations, 
including whether it is necessary for plantations to tender timber at similar times for such 
competition to occur.   
• 
Whether Hume and FCNSW are likely to conduct tender processes for uncontracted 
timber at similar times in future. 
• 
The competitive significance of an opportunity to bid for the Hume volumes to 
competition in this industry, including, in particular, whether this lost opportunity removes 
competitive tension between the merger parties.   
• 
Whether and, if so, why FCNSW prices below other market participants.  
• 
The role of downstream imports with respect to contractual outcomes for the upstream 
supply of softwood logs, including whether referencing downstream import competition 
has constrained price or service offerings in contractual negotiations.  
ACCC's next steps 
84. 
As noted above, the ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on each 
of the issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that may be 
relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. Submissions are to be received by 
the ACCC no later than 3 November 2022 and should be emailed to 
mergers@accc.gov.au  
85. 
The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions invited by 
this Statement of Issues. 
86. 
The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 27 January 2023. However, 
the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Informal Merger Review Process 
Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose of explaining the 
ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's public announcement to 
explain its final view. 
 
