Page 1 of 34 
 
Statement of Issues 
13 December 2018 
 TPG Telecom – proposed merger with Vodafone  
Purpose 
1. 
TPG Telecom Limited (TPG) proposes to merge with Vodafone Hutchison 
Australia Pty Ltd (VHA) (the proposed merger).  
2. 
This Statement of Issues: 
 
gives the preliminary views of the Australian Competition and Consumer 
Commission (ACCC) on competition issues arising from the proposed 
acquisition;  
 
identifies areas of further inquiry; and 
 
invites interested parties to submit comments and information to assist our 
assessment of the issues. 
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views 
3. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is 
in section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits 
acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of 
substantially lessening competition in any market. 
4. 
The ACCC divides its preliminary views into three categories, 'issues of concern', 
'issues that may raise concerns' and ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’. 
Issues of concern 
Competition for retail supply of mobile services 
5. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed merger will substantially lessen 
competition in the market for retail mobile services nationally.  
6. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed merger will result in a more 
concentrated and less competitive market by removing TPG as a strong 


TPG Telecom Limited – proposed merger with Vodafone Hutchison Australia 
 
Page 2 of 34 
competitor. The ACCC considers that without the merger, TPG would likely 
adopt an aggressive pricing strategy, offering cheap plans with large data 
allowances.   
Issues that may raise concerns 
Competition for wholesale supply of mobile services 
7. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed merger may substantially lessen 
competition in the market for wholesale mobile services nationally. 
8. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the removal of TPG as a fourth mobile 
network operator (MNO) may result in: 
 
higher prices for wholesale services; and 
 
more restrictive conditions for wholesale customers, 
than there would be in the absence of the proposed merger. 
Competition for retail fixed broadband services  
9. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed merger may substantially lessen 
competition in the market for the supply of retail fixed broadband services 
nationally.  
10. 
The ACCC is considering whether the removal of Vodafone as a potentially 
significant competitor for the supply of retail fixed broadband services may result 
in: 
 
higher prices for retail fixed broadband services; and 
 
lower quality services including lower data inclusions or poor performance,  
than there would be in the absence of the proposed merger.  
Competition for retail home broadband services in the longer term 
11. 
The ACCC is also considering whether when 5G mobile technology becomes 
commercially available in the near future, TPG and VHA may, in the absence of 
the merger, compete in a market for retail broadband services using either 
mobile or fixed networks (retail home broadband services). In this case, the 
proposed merger may substantially lessen competition in that market.  
Making a submission 
12. 
The ACCC is seeking submissions from interested parties, particularly on the 
following key issues: 
 
the extent to which wholesale and retail customers consider a 
geographically limited network, such as that proposed by TPG, as a viable 
alternative to existing mobile networks  


TPG Telecom Limited – proposed merger with Vodafone Hutchison Australia 
 
Page 3 of 34 
 
the extent to which TPG and Vodafone would be likely to compete against 
each other in either or both of mobile and fixed services, absent the merger  
 
whether the proposed merger is likely to limit the options available to 
mobile virtual network operators (MVNOs) seeking end-to-end wholesale 
mobile services  
 
any particular advantage that Vodafone may have in relation to providing 
retail home broadband services compared to other new entrants. 
13. 
Detailed discussion of these and other issues, along with specific questions, is 
contained in this Statement of Issues.  
14. 
Interested parties should provide submissions by no later than 5pm on 18 
January 2019. Responses may be emailed to TPG-Vodafone-
Mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: Submission re: TPG/Vodafone - attention 
Morgan Woodland/Rachel Goldfeld. If you would like to discuss the matter with 
ACCC officers over the telephone or in person, or have any questions about this 
Statement of Issues, please contact Morgan Woodland on 02 9230 9194 or 
Rachel Goldfeld on 03 9290 1438.  
15. 
The ACCC anticipates making a final decision on 28 March 2019, however this 
timeline can change. To keep abreast of possible changes in relation to timing 
and to find relevant documents, interested parties should visit the Mergers 
Register on the ACCC's website at www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
Confidentiality of submissions 
16. 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We 
will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) 
unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation 
or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition 
and Consumer Act 2010.  Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where possible so that you may 
have an opportunity to be heard.  Therefore, if the information provided to the 
ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’ 
17. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well 
as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
18. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 


TPG Telecom Limited – proposed merger with Vodafone Hutchison Australia 
 
Page 4 of 34 
Timeline 
 
Date 
Event 
24 September 2018 
ACCC commenced review under Merger Process 
Guidelines. 
13 December 2018 
ACCC publication of Statement of Issues 
18 January 2019 
Deadline for submissions from interested parties in 
response to this Statement of Issues 
28 March 2019  
Anticipated date for ACCC final decision  
 
The parties 
TPG 
19. 
TPG provides telecommunications services, including: 
 
retail fixed broadband and voice services to consumers, small business, 
government, enterprises and wholesale customers on legacy networks, the 
NBN and its own fibre-to-the-basement network (FTTB) 
 
retail mobile services as an MVNO 
 
wholesale services, such as transmission and NBN aggregation services, 
to other telecommunications service providers. 
20. 
TPG’s key retail brands are TPG, iiNet, and Internode.1 TPG has approximately 
1.9 million retail fixed broadband subscribers, half of which remain on ADSL, 
which are split approximately evenly between the TPG and iiNet brands.  
21. 
TPG supplies mobile services as an MVNO on Vodafone and Optus’s mobile 
networks and has approximately 421,000 mobile subscribers. In 2017, TPG 
announced plans to become an MNO and commenced building its own mobile 
network. 
Vodafone 
22. 
Vodafone is the third largest telecommunications provider in Australia. Vodafone 
is a 50:50 joint venture between Vodafone Group Plc and Hutchison 
Telecommunications (Australia) Limited. Vodafone is a privately owned entity, 
although the ultimate shareholders in Vodafone are publicly listed entities on the 
Hong Kong Stock Exchange and London Stock Exchange.  
                                                 
 
1 TPG’s other retail brands and subsidiaries include Adam Internet, AAPT, Westnet, TransACT, Pipe Networks, 
Netspace, Agile Communications and Chime Communications.  


TPG Telecom Limited – proposed merger with Vodafone Hutchison Australia 
 
Page 5 of 34 
23. 
Vodafone owns and operates its own 3G and 4G mobile network, which reaches 
nearly 97 per cent of the Australian population (this includes additional coverage 
provided under a domestic roaming agreement with Optus in isolated, regional 
areas). The physical geographic coverage of Vodafone’s own network is 
approximately half that of Optus and one quarter that of Telstra.   
24. 
Vodafone also supplies wholesale mobile services to MVNOs for resale, 
including to TPG. 
25. 
In October 2016, Vodafone announced its intention to begin offering retail fixed 
broadband services over the NBN and commenced supplying services in 
December 2017, mostly in metropolitan areas. Vodafone is now connected to 
91 of the 121 NBN Points of Interconnection (POI). 
Other industry participants 
Telstra 
26. 
Telstra is the largest supplier of fixed and mobile voice and broadband services 
in Australia, with the largest number of subscribers in both services. 
27. 
Telstra owns and operates the legacy copper network which is used to supply 
both fixed voice and broadband services. This network is being decommissioned 
and replaced with the NBN, owned and operated by NBN Co. Telstra acquires 
wholesale services from NBN Co and has the largest number of wholesale 
services in operation on the NBN. Telstra also supplies NBN wholesale 
aggregation services to smaller retail service providers.  
28. 
Telstra also owns and operates its own mobile network, which it claims to cover 
99.3 per cent of the Australian population. Telstra is a premium brand, but also 
targets cost-conscious consumers through its own low cost brands, Belong and 
Boost. Telstra supplies wholesale end-to-end mobile services to MVNOs on its 
network, including Aldi and Woolworths.  
29. 
Telstra owns and operates an extensive transmission network that supports its 
fixed and mobile services. It also supplies wholesale transmission services to 
other service providers.  
Optus  
30. 
Optus supplies fixed and mobile voice and broadband services. Optus has the 
second largest number of subscribers in mobile services, and the third largest 
number of subscribers in fixed voice and broadband services.  
31. 
Optus acquires wholesale fixed voice and broadband services from NBN Co and 
wholesale services from Telstra to supply retail fixed voice and broadband 
services over Telstra’s legacy copper network. Optus has the third largest share 
of wholesale services in operation on the NBN. Optus also supplies NBN 
wholesale aggregation services to smaller retail service providers.  
32. 
Optus owns and operates its own mobile network, which it claims to reach 98.5 
per cent of the Australia population. Optus sells retail mobile services and 
supplies wholesale end-to-end mobile services to MVNOs, including Amaysim. 
Optus also has several retail brands, including Virgin Mobile.  


TPG Telecom Limited – proposed merger with Vodafone Hutchison Australia 
 
Page 6 of 34 
33. 
Optus also owns and operates its own transmission network, and supplies 
wholesale transmission services to other service providers.  
NBN Co 
34. 
NBN Co has a mandate to supply wholesale-only high-speed broadband access 
services to replace Telstra’s legacy copper network. The NBN will reach all 
Australians using a mix of access technologies, including fibre, fixed wireless 
and satellite. As part of its mandate, NBN Co must supply wholesale broadband 
access to all service providers on equal terms, in order to promote retail 
competition. 
35. 
In addition to NBN Co, other next generation fibre network operators include 
OptiComm, OPENetworks, RedTrain, LBN Co and TPG. These operators 
typically deploy their networks in apartment buildings and/or new housing 
estates and tend to operate as local monopoly networks.  
Vocus  
36. 
Vocus Group Limited (Vocus) provides retail and wholesale telecommunications 
services across Australia. Vocus owns its own transmission network which 
connects all capital cities and most regional cities across Australia. Vocus 
supplies wholesale transmission services to retail service providers.  
37. 
Vocus acquires wholesale access services from NBN Co, and has the fourth 
largest share of wholesale services in operation on the NBN. Vocus also 
acquires wholesale services from Telstra to deliver retail legacy voice and 
broadband services.  
38. 
Vocus owns a number of retail and wholesale brands, including M2, iPrimus, 
Dodo, Eftel, Club Telco, NextGen Networks, Amnet, Commander, Engin and 
Southern Cross Telco.  
39. 
Vocus does not have its own mobile network, but sells retail mobile services (as 
an MVNO) through its retail brands, such as Dodo.  
Mobile virtual network operators (MVNOs)  
40. 
MVNOs acquire wholesale end-to-end mobile services from mobile network 
operators (Telstra, Optus, or Vodafone) and re-sell the mobile service under their 
own brands.  
41. 
In addition to providing mobile phone services, mobile networks can be used to 
provide mobile broadband services on smartphones, dongles, tablets and 
portable modems.  
42. 
There are currently around 90 MVNOs in the Australian market, including 
Amaysim and TPG, which make up approximately 10 per cent of mobile phone 
subscribers in Australia.  


TPG Telecom Limited – proposed merger with Vodafone Hutchison Australia 
 
Page 7 of 34 
Industry background 
Mobile networks  
43. 
A mobile network has three primary components: consumer devices, a radio 
access network and a core network.  
44. 
The radio access network consists of base stations (mobile towers) which are 
connected to the rest of the network via transmission links (also known as 
backhaul). These can be wireless (microwave) links, but are now more 
commonly fibre.  
45. 
A base station uses radio frequency spectrum to communicate between the 
consumer device and the core network. A base station provides mobile coverage 
to an immediate geographic area called a cell. Importantly, in a mobile network, 
mobile devices will maintain connectivity with the network as the end-user (or 
device) moves between cells (inter-cell handover).  
46. 
The size of cells differ. Large cells are called macro cells, which are served by 
large, high-powered base stations that provide coverage over a large area. Small 
cells provide coverage over a small area and are used to either complement 
large cells to improve coverage, add targeted capacity or provide coverage 
inside buildings or in hard-to-reach areas. Radio frequency spectrum 
characteristics also have implications for the sizes of cells. Generally, the higher 
the frequencies, the smaller the cell. 
47. 
The core network connects the different parts of the access network, connects to 
other networks and undertakes billing and user management. 
48. 
New generations of mobile phone technology have seen the capacity and 
capabilities of mobile networks increase significantly. The next generation, 5G 
(discussed in more detail below), will result in improved speeds and reduced 
latency for users as well as significant efficiencies for operators. 5G will make 
use of much higher radio frequency spectrum that will have implications for the 
size of cells. Smaller cells will be needed which will require a significant amount 
of new network deployment. 
49. 
Spectrum is a scarce resource and essential input in the supply of mobile 
services. It contributes to the quality of service and coverage of a mobile 
network, as well as the capacity of the network. Without sufficient spectrum, a 
mobile network will not be able to function.   
50. 
Mobile networks are increasingly flexible in that they can be used to support a 
range of communications services including mobile phone services, mobile 
broadband services and fixed/home wireless broadband services.  
51. 
There are currently three mobile networks in operation in Australia, owned by 
Telstra, Optus and Vodafone, which use 3G and 4G mobile technology. Telstra 
and Optus have announced plans to deploy 5G mobile networks in 2019. 
52. 
All three MNOs are vertically integrated and provide both wholesale and retail 
mobile phone and broadband services.  


TPG Telecom Limited – proposed merger with Vodafone Hutchison Australia 
 
Page 8 of 34 
53. 
In addition to mobile phone services, dedicated mobile broadband services are 
delivered using mobile networks to tablet devices or portable 4G Wi-Fi modems.  
54. 
These services have a dedicated data SIM card and do not offer call or SMS 
services like mobile phone services. Retail service providers market these 
services as mobile broadband services or home wireless broadband services.  
Fixed line networks  
55. 
Fixed line networks are characterised by a wired connection to end-user 
premises and can use a variety of technologies. Fixed line networks can be used 
to supply fixed voice and broadband services to an end-user premises.  
56. 
In Australia, there are a number of fixed line networks in operation including 
legacy copper (Telstra) and hybrid fibre coaxial (HFC) networks (Telstra and 
Optus), and next-generation fibre networks such as the NBN (NBN Co) and non-
NBN fibre networks (OptiComm, OPENetworks, TPG FTTB).  
57. 
The NBN will be the predominant fixed line network once its rollout is complete 
and the legacy copper and HFC networks are de-commissioned. The NBN 
currently uses a range of technologies including fibre-to-the premises, fibre-to-
the-node, fibre-to-the-curb, fibre-to-the-basement, HFC and in regional areas, 
fixed wireless and satellite.  
58. 
NBN Co is a wholesale-only service provider and supplies wholesale access 
services to NBN retail service providers, such as Telstra, Optus, TPG (including 
iiNet and Internode), Vocus Group (including Dodo and iPrimus), and Vodafone.  
59. 
As at 22 November 2018, the NBN was available to around 9 million Australian 
homes and businesses, of which 4.6 million premises had an active NBN 
service.2  
Transmission networks  
60. 
Transmission networks provide a link between the core network, and the 
exchange point to the access network, such as the mobile base station or NBN 
point of interconnection.  
61. 
Services supplied over these networks are known as transmission services or 
backhaul. Transmission services carry the voice, data and video traffic 
generated by retail fixed and mobile voice and broadband services, and are an 
essential input into the supply of these retail services.   
62. 
A number of different technologies can be used in transmission networks, 
including optical fibre, dark fibre, copper cables or microwave links.   
63. 
Transmission network operators provide wholesale transmission services to 
retail service providers to enable the supply of voice and broadband services to 
end-users. There are a number of transmission network operators in Australia, 
including Telstra, Optus, TPG (through AAPT) and Vocus, who supply wholesale 
transmission services to retail service providers. 
                                                 
 
2 https://www.nbnco.com.au/content/dam/nbnco2/2018/documents/weekly-progress-reports/22112018.pdf  


TPG Telecom Limited – proposed merger with Vodafone Hutchison Australia 
 
Page 9 of 34 
64. 
The ACCC currently regulates transmission services in some areas where there 
are less than three competing transmission providers. The regulated 
transmission service is called the Domestic Transmission Capacity Service.  
Future industry trends 
5G mobile technology 
65. 
5G is the next generation of mobile technology and is designed to support faster 
speeds, higher data traffic and ultra-low latency.  
66. 
5G networks will build on current 4G networks and are expected to launch 
globally by 2020. With the introduction of 5G networks, mobile services are 
expected to deliver speeds that match or exceed existing fibre broadband 
services.  
67. 
The deployment of 5G networks is expected to have wide-spread economic 
benefits for consumers, and industry. At present, there are three main use cases 
anticipated for 5G: enhanced mobile broadband, ultra-reliable, low latency 
wireless communications, and massive machine-to-machine communications. 
However, 5G is anticipated to bring many new services and applications in the 
future, as well as a more diverse range of suppliers, beyond traditional 
telecommunications companies. 
Fixed-mobile substitution 
68. 
Fixed-mobile substitution occurs when a consumer replaces a fixed voice and/or 
broadband service with a mobile voice and/or broadband service.  
69. 
Substitution can occur to varying degrees, for example, in some cases, 
consumers may give up their fixed service and use mobile services exclusively. 
Alternatively, consumers may continue to purchase both a fixed and mobile 
service, but use their mobile service more than their fixed service.  
70. 
In Australia, there has been a trend towards voice substitution for a number of 
years. In June 2017, 36 per cent of Australian adults were mobile-phone only 
and did not have a fixed-line telephone at home.3  
71. 
The extent of substitution from fixed broadband to mobile broadband is 
influenced by consumer demand for data, and preference for price and speed. 
While there is some substitution currently, this is anticipated to increase in the 
future as mobile network technology evolves.  
72. 
There are a growing range of mobile broadband services available in the market, 
such as home wireless broadband services that use a portable modem with a 
SIM. These offer larger data inclusions for lower prices than in the past.  
73. 
In particular, with the deployment of 5G mobile technology bringing higher data 
capacity and speeds, it is anticipated that these mobile broadband offerings will 
be able to offer comparable service quality, speeds and data inclusions to fixed 
                                                 
 
3 ACMA Communications Report 2016-1, pg. 4. https://www.acma.gov.au/-/media/Research-and-
Analysis/Report/pdf/Communications-report-2016-17-pdf.pdf?la=en  


TPG Telecom Limited – proposed merger with Vodafone Hutchison Australia 
 
Page 10 of 34 
line broadband services, making them more attractive to a broader range of 
consumers. 
Network convergence 
74. 
There are many definitions and degrees of convergence, for example, service 
convergence (such as bundling), device convergence (such as mobile phones 
with Wi-Fi handoff capability), and network convergence (where fixed and mobile 
services share a common IP transport network).  
75. 
Network convergence refers to the use of different access technologies, both 
fixed and mobile, on a single network. A customer has a seamless service 
experience using a combination of fixed broadband and mobile technologies to 
meet their needs at home and on the go. For example, a customer may use a 
network-provided Wi-Fi hotspot in the CBD, mobile connectivity on a commute, 
and a fixed line network at home all on the one device. The customer’s device 
will connect seamlessly to all these access points. 
76. 
Seamless experience typically refers to ‘seamless handover’ between the 
networks. For example, a call in progress can move from the mobile network to 
the fixed network on the same phone without interruption. One example of this is 
Voice over Wi-Fi calls, where a mobile device switches to making voice calls 
over Wi-Fi rather than using the mobile network.  
77. 
There is a degree of network convergence occurring in Australia whereby mobile 
network operators, Vodafone and Telstra, provide an NBN fixed broadband 
service with 4G mobile backup capability. This enables the service provider to 
supply a fixed broadband service to the consumer over a fixed or mobile 
network. We understand that at present, this mobile backup will only occur in the 
event of a blackout or NBN outage, however it affords the service provider the 
opportunity to use either network to deliver the broadband service if desired.   
The proposed transaction 
78. 
On 30 August 2018, TPG and VHA announced their intention to merge their 
businesses. Under the proposed merger, TPG shareholders will collectively own 
49.9 per cent of the merged entity and VHA shareholders will collectively own 
the remaining 50.1 per cent.  
79. 
The proposed merger will be implemented by way of a Scheme of Arrangement. 
Following the completion of the Scheme of Arrangement, the merged entity will 
be listed on the ASX and will be named ‘TPG Telecom Limited’.  
Areas of overlap 
80. 
TPG is primarily a supplier of retail fixed broadband services and has 
commenced rolling out its own mobile network, to supply mobile services. 
Vodafone operates its own mobile network and is primarily a supplier of mobile 
services, and has commenced supplying retail fixed broadband services on the 
NBN. There are therefore three areas of actual or potential overlap between the 
merger parties: 
 
the supply of retail fixed broadband services; 


TPG Telecom Limited – proposed merger with Vodafone Hutchison Australia 
 
Page 11 of 34 
 
the supply of retail mobile phone and broadband services; and 
 
the supply of wholesale mobile services.  
Future with and without the acquisition  
81. 
Section 50 of the Act prohibits mergers or acquisitions that would have the effect 
or be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
In assessing a proposed acquisition pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC 
considers the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future state of 
competition if the acquisition proceeds (the “with” position) to the likely future 
state of competition if the acquisition does not proceed (the “without” position) to 
determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to substantially lessen 
competition in any relevant market. 
82. 
If the proposed merger does not proceed, the ACCC considers TPG and 
Vodafone will continue to compete as separate entities. The ACCC is also 
considering the future ‘without’ position in the context of TPG and Vodafone 
potentially sharing the 3.6 GHz spectrum under their current joint venture (JV) 
agreement, pursuant to the ACMA auction in November 2018.  
83. 
The parties have proposed to possibly expand their JV agreement and the 
ACCC is assessing the competitive effects of this broader JV separately. 
Market definition 
84. 
The ACCC’s starting point for defining relevant markets to assess the 
competitive effects of the proposed merger involves identifying the products 
actually or potentially supplied by the merger parties. The ACCC then considers 
what other products constitute sufficiently close substitutes to provide a 
significant source of constraint on the merged entity.  
85. 
The ACCC is considering the impact of the proposed merger on competition in 
the markets for the supply of: 
 
retail mobile services in metropolitan areas or nationally 
 
wholesale mobile services nationally 
 
retail fixed broadband services to households and/or businesses nationally. 
86. 
The ACCC is also considering whether and how the adoption of 5G mobile 
technology will impact on the scope or nature of the relevant markets, potentially 
leading to a retail home broadband services market, including fixed and mobile 
broadband services.  
87. 
Questions relating to customer and supplier substitution, and the geographic 
scope of the relevant markets, are explored below.  
Market for the supply of retail mobile services  
88. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed merger will substantially lessen 
competition for the supply of retail mobile services in metropolitan areas or 
nationally.  


TPG Telecom Limited – proposed merger with Vodafone Hutchison Australia 
 
Page 12 of 34 
Product/service dimension 
89. 
Mobile networks can be used to access the internet, make calls and send SMS 
messages. There are two types of retail mobile services currently offered to 
consumers over mobile networks in Australia:  
 
Mobile phone services, which include a bundle of voice, SMS and 
broadband data services 
 
 
Mobile broadband services, which are a subset of mobile phone services, 
being broadband data services but not voice or SMS services – these 
broadband data services are provided over a 3G or 4G network which a 
consumer can use with a tablet, dongle or portable 4G Wi-Fi modem that 
connects to a consumer device.  
90. 
The ACCC has previously considered there are separate markets for mobile 
phone services and mobile broadband services. However, the ACCC is 
considering whether it is appropriate to include both mobile phone services and 
mobile broadband services in the same market.  
91. 
From a functional or end-user perspective, mobile phone services are used for 
different purposes than mobile broadband services. Consumers use mobile 
phone services to make calls, send SMS messages and access the internet. 
Consumers use mobile broadband services to access the internet only.  
92. 
However, there is growing demand for retail mobile phone plans with significant 
data inclusions. We also note the emergence and take-up of over-the-top (OTT) 
voice and messaging services delivered over the internet. OTT voice and 
messaging services, such as Skype and WhatsApp, are displacing traditional 
voice and messaging services for some consumer segments.4  
93. 
There are technical limitations to using OTT services on a mobile broadband 
service for calls and messaging, such as the lack of interconnectivity between 
apps, and the inability to call 13/1300/1800 numbers or make emergency calls 
(with the exception of Skype). This means that OTT voice services are unable to 
offer the same level of functionality as traditional voice services available via 
mobile phone services.  
94. 
From a supplier’s perspective, a single mobile network is capable of supplying 
both mobile broadband services and mobile phone services, provided the 
supplier has the relevant interconnection agreements in place to allow for voice 
and SMS functionality.  
Geographic dimension  
95. 
Consumers primarily use their mobile phones close to where they live, work and 
shop. Therefore, consumers will often purchase their mobile services from 
service providers which offer good local coverage.  
96. 
Currently, mobile services are priced on a uniform basis nationally and can be 
used by consumers across most cities and regional centres. Without a domestic 
                                                 
 
4 ACCC, ‘Communications Sector Market Study – Final Report’, April 2018, p. 20.  


TPG Telecom Limited – proposed merger with Vodafone Hutchison Australia 
 
Page 13 of 34 
roaming agreement, TPG’s planned mobile network will only have geographic 
coverage in metropolitan centres.  
97. 
The ACCC’s Domestic Mobile Roaming Declaration Inquiry found that 
geographic coverage is not the primary driver of competition. Therefore, it is not 
essential for MNOs to have the same geographic coverage to be able to 
compete effectively in the national supply of retail mobile services.5 For example, 
Vodafone is able to compete closely with both Optus and Telstra despite its 
more limited geographic coverage. However, Vodafone’s network covers 95.3 
per cent of the population and Vodafone has a domestic roaming agreement with 
Optus, whereas TPG’s planned mobile network will only cover 80 per cent of the 
population.  
98. 
It is also possible that TPG’s entry into metropolitan regions may disrupt uniform 
national pricing such that incumbent MNOs price more aggressively in areas 
where TPG has coverage.  
99. 
At this stage, the ACCC considers that the appropriate geographic dimension of 
the relevant market is likely to be national. However, competitive dynamics may 
differ between metropolitan and regional areas, and the effect of TPG’s entry 
may be more pronounced in metropolitan areas.  
100. The ACCC is considering whether the state of competition and nature of 
available services differ depending on where the services are delivered such that 
it is appropriate to classify a market for mobile services in metropolitan areas as 
distinct from a national market.  
Market for the supply of wholesale mobile services  
101. The ACCC is considering whether TPG would supply wholesale end-to-end 
mobile services to MVNOs once its mobile network is rolled out, and the extent 
to which TPG would compete effectively against the incumbent MNOs in the 
wholesale mobile services market. 
102. Wholesale end-to-end mobile services are only available from MNOs. MVNOs 
commercially negotiate wholesale arrangements with the MNOs to enable them 
to supply retail mobile services. 
103. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that there is a separate national market for the 
supply of wholesale mobile services to MVNOs. However, as with the market for 
retail mobile services, the ACCC is considering whether the appropriate 
geographic scope of the market (or markets) is metropolitan.  
Market for the supply of retail fixed broadband services  
Product service dimension 
Retail fixed broadband services 
104. As discussed in the industry background section above, a retail fixed broadband 
service involves high speed data transmission to homes and businesses (i.e. to 
a fixed location). These services can either be delivered over the fixed line 
                                                 
 
5 ACCC, ‘Domestic Mobile Roaming Declaration Inquiry – Final Report’, October 2017, p 2.  


TPG Telecom Limited – proposed merger with Vodafone Hutchison Australia 
 
Page 14 of 34 
network (copper or fibre optic cable) or over the mobile network (a wireless 
service).  
105. Retail fixed broadband services include broadband services delivered from a 
mobile tower to a stationary device, like an antenna. The ACCC considers that 
these services are distinct from mobile broadband services (as defined in 
paragraph 89) because the service is being delivered to a fixed location.  
106. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that there are separate product markets for fixed 
broadband services and mobile broadband services. However, as discussed 
above, there is the potential for increasing substitution between these services, 
particularly in the longer-run, as discussed further under paragraph 178.   
Customer type and size  
107. The information before the ACCC suggests that different customer types have 
different demand characteristics for their consumption of retail fixed broadband 
services.  
108. Government or enterprise customers typically acquire broadband services, either 
from a broker or directly from one of the telecommunications companies. These 
customers also typically have much larger data requirements and require 
broadband services in multiple locations across Australia.  
109. Residential customers typically have less structured purchasing requirements 
and are less likely to require a bundled product. While many residential 
customers seek high-speed fixed line connections with large data inclusions, 
there are some residential customers with lower speed and data requirements 
that may only require a mobile broadband service.  
110. The ACCC is of the preliminary view that given the limited overlap in supplying 
retail fixed broadband services to government or enterprise customers, the 
relevant market for assessing the potential impact of the proposed merger is 
likely to be the market for the supply of retail fixed broadband services to 
residential customers.  
Geographic dimension 
111. For most residential customers, mobile broadband services would not currently 
be an adequate substitute due to the speed and data limits, so these customers 
would typically require fixed broadband services at their premises.  
112. However, retail fixed broadband service providers with national brands compete 
nationally for customers and typically adopt a national approach to setting prices 
and service levels. Therefore, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the relevant 
geographic market is national.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary views about 
the definition of the relevant market(s). In particular, market participants may wish to 
comment on: 
Mobile services  
 
the extent to which consumers use OTT voice and messaging services instead of 
mobile phone voice and SMS services  


TPG Telecom Limited – proposed merger with Vodafone Hutchison Australia 
 
Page 15 of 34 
 
the factors that contribute to uniform pricing for mobile services and whether 
uniform pricing is likely to continue in the future, whether or not the proposed 
merger proceeds  
 
the extent to which there may be separate, metropolitan markets for the supply of 
mobile services across Australia  
 
the likelihood of MNOs and MVNOs offering different pricing and plans in 
metropolitan areas as distinct from regional areas, and if this is the case, how the 
boundaries of metropolitan areas should be determined  
 
whether the geographic scope of the wholesale market should be the same as the 
retail market  
Fixed broadband services  
 
the extent to which customers would switch to a mobile broadband service from a 
fixed broadband service, and for those customers who would switch, the relevant 
data usage threshold for defining different fixed broadband customer segments, in 
particular ‘low’ data users. Are low data users more likely to consider a mobile 
broadband service as a substitute for fixed broadband services compared to high 
data users?  
 
whether it is appropriate to distinguish between fixed broadband services and 
mobile broadband services delivered to a fixed location   
 
the extent to which government and enterprise customers are likely to procure 
retail fixed broadband services differently to residential customers  
 
the factors that drive uniform pricing for mobile services and whether uniform 
pricing is likely to continue in the future.  


TPG Telecom Limited – proposed merger with Vodafone Hutchison Australia 
 
Page 16 of 34 
Issue of concern: loss of competition for retail mobile 
services 
113. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed merger will substantially 
lessen competition by removing TPG as an aggressive competitor in the supply 
of retail mobile services. This would likely result in higher prices and lower 
service levels (for instance, data inclusions, contract options, customisation, 
bundling and multi-product offerings, speed and service performance and 
reliability) for retail customers compared to a future in which TPG is a standalone 
fourth MNO. The proposed merger will limit the market to three MNOs for the 
foreseeable future by removing TPG as a new entrant.  
114. In particular, the ACCC is considering the likely extent and nature of the 
competitive constraint that TPG would impose in the absence of the proposed 
merger, having regard to the more limited geographic coverage of its network but 
also its likely pricing strategy.  
115. The ACCC is also considering the counter argument, that the proposed merger 
would create an effective competitor that would impose a stronger constraint on 
Telstra and Optus. This is based on the complementarity of the merger parties’ 
assets and potential efficiencies generated by the proposed merger that may 
enable the merged entity to increase and accelerate its infrastructure investment 
compared to a standalone TPG and standalone Vodafone.   
Current state of competition for mobile services  
116. There are currently three MNOs in Australia: Telstra, Optus and Vodafone. All 
three MNOs are vertically integrated and provide both wholesale and retail 
mobile services. National retail market shares for consumer mobile phone 
services by service provider are set out in the figure and table below. This is 
based on data from the ACCC’s Communications Sector Market Study – Final 
Report. 


TPG Telecom Limited – proposed merger with Vodafone Hutchison Australia 
 
Page 17 of 34 
Figure 1: Retail mobile services market shares for consumer mobile 
phone services by service provider in 2016 
 
Table 1: Retail mobile services market shares for consumer mobile phone 
services by service provider in 2016  
Entity 
Market share 
Telstra (including Boost) 
44% 
Optus (including Virgin) 
29% 
Vodafone (Including Lebara) 
19% 
TPG (iiNet, Internode, Westnet and TransACT) 
3% 
Other (including Amaysim, ALDImobile, Southern Cross 
Telco, Southern Phone, Exetel, Dodo, iPrimus other 
providers and small providers from overseas) 
8% 
Source: Data from the ACCC’s Communications Sector Market Study – Final Report 
 


TPG Telecom Limited – proposed merger with Vodafone Hutchison Australia 
 
Page 18 of 34 
117. The ACCC understands that market shares for retail mobile phone services have 
remained relatively stable over recent years in what the ACCC considers to be a 
highly concentrated market. 
118. The ACCC stated in its 2017 Domestic Mobile Roaming Declaration Inquiry that 
the market for retail mobile services in Australia is for similar but differentiated 
products. MNOs compete on factors such as price, network coverage, network 
quality, bundles and content inclusions. There are also differences in the 
geographic coverage of the three MNO networks. Telstra claims to reach 99.3 
per cent of the population, followed by Optus that claims to reach 98.5 per cent 
and Vodafone has claimed to reach 97 per cent (including its roaming agreement 
with Optus).  
119. In terms of geographic coverage, Telstra’s network has the largest coverage 
footprint, at over 2.4 million square kilometres. Optus is the second largest, 
covering around one million square kilometres and Vodafone has the least 
geographic coverage at around 600,000 square kilometres.6  The ACCC does 
not consider MNOs or new entrants need to have the same geographic coverage 
to compete effectively in the mobiles market.7 
120. As discussed above in the ‘Industry Background’ section, there are also over 90 
MVNOs that acquire wholesale end-to-end mobile services from one of the 
MNOs and resell the mobile service under their own retail brand.8 MVNOs tend 
to differentiate their retail offerings on price, bundles, service quality and network 
coverage.  
121. Consistent with previous ACCC consideration, the ACCC considers MVNOs 
provide a limited constraint on the MNOs, particularly as they rely on purchasing 
wholesale end-to-end mobile services from MNOs. However, the ACCC is 
considering whether MVNOs provide a level of competitive constraint on MNOs 
by targeting niche groups of customers that may not be serviced by the MNOs, 
including pre-paid low priced plans with large data inclusions. 
Barriers to entry and expansion  
122. The ACCC considers that there are high barriers to entry in establishing a mobile 
network and expanding as an MNO. Outside of TPG’s entry into mobile services, 
the ACCC considers there is unlikely to be a new MNO entrant with the scale 
and scope to effectively constrain the existing MNOs in the foreseeable future.  
123. The significant barriers to establishing a mobile network include:   
 
Access to and cost of the necessary spectrum  
 
Significant costs of a network rollout, which are largely sunk 
 
Physical network deployment, including gaining access to sensitive sites 
subject to planning laws 
                                                 
 
6 ACCC, ‘Domestic mobile roaming declaration inquiry – final report’, October 2017, p. 5. 
7 ACCC, ‘Domestic mobile roaming declaration inquiry – final report’, October 2017, p. 39. 
8 ACCC, ‘Communications Sector Market Study – final report’, April 2018, p. 56. 


TPG Telecom Limited – proposed merger with Vodafone Hutchison Australia 
 
Page 19 of 34 
 
Obtaining a customer base of sufficient size  
 
Brand reputation 
124. As is discussed below, TPG does not face many of these barriers compared to 
other potential entrants. It already has spectrum, a well-known brand, significant 
infrastructure and a large customer base to whom it can cross-promote.  
Removal of TPG as a potential effective competitor for mobile services  
125. TPG is in the process of rolling out its own mobile network to become Australia’s 
fourth MNO. According to TPG’s 2018 half year results presentation on 20 March 
2018, TPG’s mobile rollout was well underway with sites installed in Sydney and 
Melbourne. It also stated that small cell site access agreements are now 
substantially complete and that “high density of small cell sites and deployment 
of Cloud RAN [radio access network] will provide a platform for 5G services”.9 
After the proposed merger was publicly announced in August 2018, TPG’s 2018 
full year results presentation on 18 September 2018 stated the small cell site 
rollout is continuing and that “TPG’s small cell network would be complementary 
to VHA’s mobile network”.10  
126. The ACCC is concerned that the removal of TPG as an MNO would likely lead to 
the loss of a significant competitor in the supply of retail mobile services, which is 
a concentrated market. In addition, TPG is likely to be an innovative and low 
price competitor. The ACCC considers the removal of TPG as an MNO may 
lessen the incentive for the existing MNOs to compete vigorously since the 
market will be more concentrated. 
127. Relative to any other potential new entrant, the ACCC considers TPG has 
already overcome some entry barriers and is better-placed than any other 
potential new entrant to successfully establish a mobile network and offer 
competitive mobile services, through its ability to leverage its extensive retail 
fixed broadband customer base and well-recognised brand name, as well as its 
existing infrastructure and spectrum holdings. TPG’s media release dated 9 May 
2018 states, “TPG will be sending out invitations to persons who express 
interest, with priority being given to existing TPG, iiNet and Internode broadband 
customers”.11 The ACCC considers that it is unlikely other mobile service 
providers, such as MVNOs or potential new entrants, will have the necessary 
size and scope to become an effective MNO in the foreseeable future.  
128. TPG intends to spend $600 million on a mobile network rollout over three years 
to achieve 80 per cent population coverage.12 The network is expected to cover 
densely populated areas with approximately 2,000 to 2,500 sites plus small cell 
sites.13 The ACCC understands TPG’s mobile network will initially focus on 
                                                 
 
9 https://www.tpg.com.au/about/pdfs/TPMHY18Presentationv9ASX.pdf?v=1.7.  
10 https://www.tpg.com.au/about/pdfs/TPMFY18Presentationv6.pdf  
11 TPG, TPG to offer Free Unlimited Mobile Data plan on its Brand New Australian Mobile Network, 9 May 2018, 
https://www.tpg.com.au/about/media.php.  
12 ASX, TPG Telecom acquires 700MHz spectrum in Australia; launches $400 entitlement offer, 12 April 2017, 
https://www.asx.com.au/asxpdf/20170412/pdf/43hgrdhpfm7jq0.pdf. 
13 TPG investor presentation, 700MHz spectrum auction success and entitlement offer, 12 April 2017, 
https://www.tpg.com.au/about/pdfs/TPG_700MHz_Spectrum%20Acquisition_Investor_Presentation.pdf.    


TPG Telecom Limited – proposed merger with Vodafone Hutchison Australia 
 
Page 20 of 34 
supplying services in CBD areas including Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, 
Canberra and Brisbane.  
129. TPG also spent $1.26 billion14 on 2 x 10 MHz of the 700 MHz spectrum 
(metropolitan and regional) auctioned by the ACMA in April 2017 for its intended 
4G mobile network. In addition to its 700 MHz spectrum, TPG holds some 1800 
MHz spectrum in regional areas and 2 x 10 MHz of 2.5 GHz spectrum in 
metropolitan and regional areas. It was announced on 10 December 2018 that, 
through its JV with Vodafone, TPG had acquired 3.6 GHz spectrum that can be 
used for its 4G network and for deploying 5G mobile services.  
130. Market inquiries have provided mixed feedback as to the likely use and capability 
of TPG’s mobile network. Some market participants consider TPG will build a 
viable mobile network that will compete aggressively against other MNOs.  
131. Some market participants view TPG’s acquisition of spectrum and network 
rollout as geared more towards offering a fixed wireless service that would 
compete more directly with the NBN rather than traditional mobile phone 
services. TPG has previously stated “… our mobile strategy will be 
complementary to our ongoing fixed line business, with the ability to bundle 
mobile and fixed services expected to have a beneficial effect on our already low 
fixed services customer churn”.15 The ACCC is continuing to consider how the 
TPG mobile network is likely to operate and compete in the supply of retail 
mobile services. As part of this, the ACCC is considering the extent to which it is 
necessary to offer both a mobile voice and data service to compete effectively in 
retail mobile services.  
132. Some market feedback has indicated TPG’s mobile network would not effectively 
constrain Telstra and Optus due to its limited geographic coverage. In particular, 
market feedback indicated consumers on TPG’s mobile network would need to 
complement the service with an existing MNO that offers additional coverage, 
which therefore limits the competitive constraint TPG can exert on existing 
MNOs.  
133. The ACCC has previously found that differences in geographic coverage are not 
necessarily an impediment to effective competition between networks.16 
Geographic coverage is only one aspect of mobile competition. MNOs also 
compete on price, data inclusions and network quality in areas they service. 
134. The ACCC is considering the extent to which TPG’s initial data-only plans will be 
competitive in the market. In this context, a relevant comparison may be made 
with Telstra initially offering data-only mobile broadband services under its 
Belong brand.  
135. The ACCC considers TPG has a strong history of adopting aggressive pricing 
strategies and competing aggressively for market share as an MVNO in retail 
                                                 
 
14 The price paid by TPG was equivalent to $2.75/MHz/pop. Vodafone secured the remaining 2 x 5 MHz 700 MHz 
spectrum for $285,907,000, at the reserve price of $1.25/MHz/pop. (ACMA, Sold! AMCA completes high-value 
spectrum auction, 
https://www.acma.gov.au/theACMA/Newsroom/Newsroom/Media-releases/sold-acma-completes-high-value-spectrum-
auction). 
15 ASX, TPG Telecom acquires 700MHz spectrum in Australia; launches $400 entitlement offer, 12 April 2017, 
https://www.asx.com.au/asxpdf/20170412/pdf/43hgrdhpfm7jq0.pdf.  
16 ACCC, 2017 Domestic Mobile Roaming Declaration Inquiry, pp.2-3, 47. 


TPG Telecom Limited – proposed merger with Vodafone Hutchison Australia 
 
Page 21 of 34 
mobile services. For example, in April 2018 TPG refreshed its mobile phone 
plans to offer 65 per cent more data and a $0 SIM fee.17 TPG stated, “Removing 
SIM fee and packing more data into our existing mobile products are exciting 
news, but we will be even more aggressive when our own mobile network is 
ready”.18  
136. The ACCC considers it likely TPG will adopt a similar strategy for retail mobile 
services on its own network and price aggressively, potentially offering 
significantly cheaper plans than other MNOs with large data allowances.  
137. This view is consistent with market feedback and TPG’s announcement that it 
expects to begin trials of its 4G network in certain suburbs and will offer this trial 
service for free with unlimited data.19  TPG’s media release states, “The mobile 
plan to be made available to the first TPG customers will be absolutely free for 
the first 6 months and is expected to be available in Q3-Q4 2018. The plan will 
come with Unlimited Data, with the first 1 GB of data every day supplied at 4G 
LTE speeds, after which speed will be capped at 1 Mbps for the remainder of the 
day”.20 TPG also announced customers choosing to continue with the plan after 
the 6-month free period will pay a monthly charge of $9.99.21  
138. The ACCC is considering the impact of TPG’s likely pricing strategy in the short 
and long term on the supply of retail mobile services and its potential competitive 
constraint on other MNOs. The ACCC is also considering the impact of TPG on 
non-price elements of retail mobile services competition, such as inclusions and 
customer service. 
139. The ACCC recognises that MNOs require ongoing investment in their mobile 
network to continually increase service quality. Telstra and Optus are in the 
process of rolling out infrastructure to offer 5G mobile services. The ACCC is 
considering whether, absent the merger, TPG would have the capacity to 
continually invest in its mobile network in a timely way.  
ACCC’s preliminary views 
140. In summary, the ACCC is concerned that the removal of TPG as a significant 
competitor for mobile services will result in higher prices and lower quality for 
retail mobile services, such as data inclusions, contract options, customisation, 
bundling and multi-product offerings, speed and service performance and 
reliability.  
                                                 
 
17TPG, TPG’s Mobile plans refresh – 65% more data and $0 SIM fee, 19 April 2018 
https://www.tpg.com.au/about_pdfs/TPG%20Media%20Release%20-
%20New%20mobile%20plans%20April%202018.pdf.  
18TPG, TPG’s Mobile plans refresh – 65% more data and $0 SIM fee, 19 April 2018 
https://www.tpg.com.au/about_pdfs/TPG%20Media%20Release%20-
%20New%20mobile%20plans%20April%202018.pdf.  
19 A list of sites planned for initial coverage can be found in TPG’s media release: 
https://www.tpg.com.au/about/media.php. Initial mobile network coverage will include CBD areas and numerous 
surrounding suburbs in Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Canberra and Brisbane. 
20 TPG, TPG to offer Free Unlimited Mobile Data plan on its Brand New Australian Mobile Network, 9 May 2018, 
https://www.tpg.com.au/about/media.php (emphasis as in the original).   
21 TPG, TPG to offer Free Unlimited Mobile Data plan on its Brand New Australian Mobile Network, 9 May 2018, 
https://www.tpg.com.au/about/media.php.    


TPG Telecom Limited – proposed merger with Vodafone Hutchison Australia 
 
Page 22 of 34 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to 
retail mobile services.  In particular, market participants may wish to comment on the 
following: 
 
the different factors MNOs compete with each other on (including price, geographic 
coverage and other non-price aspects) and the most important aspects of 
competition 
 
the extent to which MVNOs compete with MNOs (including targeting any particular 
market or customer segment) and the main forms of competition MVNO’s provide 
(including price and non-price aspects)  
 
the types of challenges potential entrants face when establishing a mobile network, 
including the most significant costs involved   
 
the likelihood of a potential entrant becoming an MNO, excluding TPG’s entry. In 
answering this question, you may wish to identify any likely new entrant and how 
large a MVNO would need to be before they could establish their own network. 
 
the current level of competition between the existing MNO’s and how the proposed 
merger and increase in concentration would impact this 
 
the extent to which TPG’s mobile network will increase competition in the supply of 
retail mobile services, including the impact on price and non-price features (such 
as service inclusions, network quality, innovation, and customer service) and 
whether TPG’s entry is likely to disrupt uniform national pricing     
 
the extent to which data-only mobile offerings (mobile broadband services), such 
as Belong’s initial offering, are a credible alternative to mobile phone services  
 
the extent to which TPG will be an effective competitive constraint on other MNOs 
if it is slow to roll out 5G services or does not roll out 5G services at all 
Network coverage 
 
the extent to which Vodafone’s mobile network is competitive with mobile networks 
operated by Telstra and Optus, given differences in geographic coverage  
 
the importance of, and extent to which there are, challenges for TPG securing a 
domestic roaming agreement for regions not covered by its mobile network. 


TPG Telecom Limited – proposed merger with Vodafone Hutchison Australia 
 
Page 23 of 34 
Issue that may raise concerns: loss of potential 
competition for wholesale mobile services  
141. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed merger may substantially 
lessen competition by removing TPG as a potential fourth wholesale mobile 
services provider for MVNOs. This would result in increased prices and 
decreased service levels for MVNOs, with a flow on effect to retail customers.  
142. Currently, Telstra, Optus and Vodafone are the only providers of wholesale end-
to-end mobile services. As at 2016, Optus had the largest share of the wholesale 
MVNO market, with Telstra and Vodafone having significantly smaller shares of 
the wholesale MVNO market compared to Optus. See the below table and figure 
for a further breakdown of shares.  
Figure 2: Mobile network operator market shares  
 


TPG Telecom Limited – proposed merger with Vodafone Hutchison Australia 
 
Page 24 of 34 
Table 2: Market shares of wholesale mobile services by mobile network 
operator in 2016 
Mobile network 
Market share 
Telstra (includes Boost and ALDImobile) 
44% 
Optus (includes Virgin, Amaysim, Southern Phone, 
Dodo, iPrimus, Exetel) 
33% 
Vodafone (includes Lebara, TPG, Internode, Westnet, 
iinet and TransACT) 
22% 
Source: Data from the ACCC’s Communications Sector Market Study – Final Report 
143. The ACCC considers the rollout of TPG’s mobile network may provide more 
competition in the market for wholesale mobile services.  
144. Wholesale mobile services are currently unregulated and market feedback has 
indicated that MVNOs are in a weak position and are heavily reliant on MNOs to 
offer reasonable prices and access terms.  
145. Market feedback has indicated that TPG could offer another source of wholesale 
mobile services. In the context of TPG’s intended 80 per cent population 
coverage and data only mobile network, market feedback indicated that MVNOs 
would consider TPG’s network to be an attractive option and that it would be 
possible for them to use TPG’s network in some areas and use another MNO in 
other areas.  
146. Irrespective of whether TPG offered wholesale mobile services, market feedback 
indicated that its entry as an MNO would have an indirect impact on wholesale 
services as it would create additional network capacity, which MNOs would have 
a commercial incentive to offer to MVNOs. Some market participants have 
indicated the prospective entry of TPG as an MNO has already assisted MVNOs 
in obtaining better prices and deals from existing MNOs.  
147. Other market participants are sceptical of whether TPG’s mobile network will 
provide enough coverage to offer MVNOs a viable product and provide a 
competitive constraint on existing MNOs. The ACCC is also considering 
whether, in the absence of TPG offering wholesale mobile services, its presence 
at the retail level would exert a sufficient competitive constraint at the wholesale 
level.  
148. The ACCC is continuing to investigate the potential impact on the wholesale 
mobile services market and the competitive constraint MVNOs impose on MNOs 
in the retail mobile services market.  
ACCC’s preliminary views 


TPG Telecom Limited – proposed merger with Vodafone Hutchison Australia 
 
Page 25 of 34 
149. In summary, the ACCC is concerned that the removal of TPG as a potential 
effective competitor for mobile services may result in higher prices and more 
restrictive conditions for wholesale mobile services, than there would be in the 
absence of the proposed merger  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to 
wholesale mobile services.  In particular, market participants may wish to comment on 
the following: 
 
the extent to which MVNOs will be likely to acquire wholesale services from TPG, 
given its plan to initially offer a data-only mobile services on a network that covers 
densely populated areas only. In answering this question, you may wish to 
comment on whether MVNOs would need to enter into a second roaming 
agreement with another MNO and whether there are any limitations to this (e.g. 
exclusivity provisions).  
 
the extent to which TPG’s mobile network will increase competition in the supply of 
wholesale mobile services offered by existing MNOs, including MVNOs’ access to 
these services 
 
whether TPG taking customers away from MNOs means it is more likely that 
existing MNOs will have an increased incentive to offer wholesale access to their 
networks to MVNOs. 


TPG Telecom Limited – proposed merger with Vodafone Hutchison Australia 
 
Page 26 of 34 
Issue that may raise concerns: the loss of competition for 
retail fixed broadband services  
150. The ACCC is considering whether the proposed merger will substantially lessen 
competition by removing Vodafone as a future effective competitor for retail fixed 
broadband services. This may result in higher prices or poorer quality of services 
(including less data inclusions, slower connection speeds, less attractive multi-
service bundles, and lower levels of customisation) for retail fixed broadband 
than would have been the case without the proposed merger.  
Current state of competition for retail fixed broadband services  
151. The ACCC considers retail fixed broadband services to be a highly concentrated 
market characterised by few large service providers with a large number of 
smaller providers.  
152. The four major providers in the supply of retail fixed broadband services are 
Telstra, Optus, TPG and Vocus. Smaller providers include Aussie Broadband, 
Exetel, MyRepublic, Foxtel, Southern Phone, Active8me, Skymesh and 
MyNetFone. 
153. Fixed broadband services can be delivered using a variety of networks, as 
discussed in the industry background section. In Australia, the majority of retail 
fixed broadband services are delivered on legacy copper and HFC networks and 
on the NBN.  
154. The legacy copper and HFC networks are currently being decommissioned and 
replaced with the NBN. The supply of retail fixed broadband services is 
transitioning to the NBN. There are currently around 177 NBN retail service 
providers. 
155. The market shares for retail fixed broadband services in 2016 are set out in 
Table 3 and Figure 3. The ACCC understands market shares in retail fixed 
broadband have been relatively stable over recent years. Table 3 shows that the 
four major providers account for approximately 94 per cent of retail services on 
the NBN compared to 97 per cent on legacy networks.22 
 
                                                 
 
22 ACCC, ‘Communications Sector Market Study – final report’, April 2018, p. 35. 


TPG Telecom Limited – proposed merger with Vodafone Hutchison Australia 
 
Page 27 of 34 
Figure 3: Overall market shares for retail fixed broadband services in 
2016  
 
Table 3: Market shares for retail fixed broadband services in 2016  
Retail service provider  
Legacy  
services 
NBN services Overall 
Telstra (including Belong) 
51% 
51% 
51% 
TPG Group (including TPG, iiNet and Internode) 22% 
22% 
22% 
Optus 
17% 
15% 
17% 
Vocus Group (including Dodo and iPrimus) 
6% 
6% 
6% 
Others 
3% 
6% 
4% 
Source: Data from the ACCC’s Communications Sector Market Study – Final Report 
156. The ACCC Communications Sector Market Study Final Report (Market Study) 
found there to be both price and non-price competition in the highly concentrated 
market for retail fixed broadband services. It found that there is currently strong 
price competition, particularly for services on the NBN, with most providers 
offering plans at similar price points (between $40 to $80 per month) across 
different NBN speed tiers (including 12, 25, 50 and 100 Mbps). However, the 


TPG Telecom Limited – proposed merger with Vodafone Hutchison Australia 
 
Page 28 of 34 
Market Study also noted that the NBN network is still being rolled out and is in a 
key migration phase, so the current price competition may not be sustained in 
the long term.23 
157. Some providers seek to differentiate their offerings on non-price aspects, 
including customisation options, bundling with entertainment and/or energy 
services and multi-service offerings, such as retail fixed broadband and mobile 
services.  
158. TPG also supplies retail fixed broadband services using its own FTTB network. 
TPG’s FTTB network enables download speeds up to 100Mbps, and competes 
with the NBN and other non-NBN networks. TPG offers its retail FTTB 
broadband services at lower prices compared to its NBN retail fixed broadband 
services.24 We note that TPG’s FTTB services are typically only available in a 
limited number of apartment buildings in metropolitan areas.25 
                                                 
 
23 ACCC, ‘Communications Sector Market Study – final report’, April 2018, p. 24 
24 TPG, NBN plans and FTTB Plans, viewed 20 November 2018.  
25 ACCC, ‘Communications Sector Market Study – final report’, April 2018, p. 34. 


TPG Telecom Limited – proposed merger with Vodafone Hutchison Australia 
 
Page 29 of 34 
Barriers to entry and expansion 
159. The ACCC considers there are high barriers to expansion in the retail fixed 
broadband market, including the ability to compete effectively with the major 
service providers.  
160. The transition to the NBN has reduced the barriers for new entrants (compared 
to legacy networks), and seen a significant increase in the number of service 
providers in the retail fixed broadband market. However, Telstra, TPG, Optus 
and, to a lesser extent, Vocus, still account for the majority of retail customers on 
the NBN. 
161. Similar to retail mobile services, the ACCC considers brand recognition is key in 
being able to grow a substantial customer base. The ACCC is continuing to 
consider the extent to which brand recognition is a barrier for new entrants 
achieving a sufficient customer base and competing with the major providers.  
162. The retail fixed broadband market is also characterised by customer stickiness 
and limited churn between service providers. For example, as reported in the 
Market Study, in 2016 only seven per cent of Australian households switched 
their fixed broadband service provider in the previous 12 months. When 
consumers did switch, their movement was predominantly between the large 
service providers.26 As a result, it may be difficult for new entrants or smaller 
service providers to attract customers and grow their market share.   
163. The ACCC understands that NBN wholesale access prices may also act as a 
barrier to expansion given the price model benefits those with economies of 
scale. As a result, the major providers may have a competitive advantage in the 
supply of retail fixed broadband services on the NBN.  
164. Service providers can either purchase NBN wholesale access services directly 
from NBN Co, or they can purchase NBN wholesale aggregation services from 
the large service providers, Telstra, Optus, TPG and Vocus, as well as 
MyNetFone Group and Aussie Broadband.27 
165. The ACCC considers that service providers with a direct connection to the NBN 
have a greater ability to supply differentiated services, giving them a competitive 
advantage.28 Furthermore, the ACCC understands that the margins available to 
NBN resellers who acquire wholesale aggregation services are typically very 
low. In this regard, Amaysim, a purchaser of NBN wholesale aggregation 
services, has recently exited the retail fixed broadband market after 18 months. 
The ACCC is continuing to consider the potential barriers to entry and expansion 
in the market for retail fixed broadband services.  
166. The ACCC considers Vodafone is better-placed to overcome the barriers to 
expansion than other new entrants or smaller providers due to its substantial 
existing retail mobile customer base, high level of brand recognition, established 
call centres and billing capabilities, nationwide retail store presence, and the 
                                                 
 
26 ACCC, ‘Communications Sector Market Study – final report’, April 2018, p. 120. 
27 ACCC, ‘Communications Sector Market Study – final report’, April 2018, p. 55 
28 ACCC, ‘Communications Sector Market Study – final report’, April 2018, p. 57 


TPG Telecom Limited – proposed merger with Vodafone Hutchison Australia 
 
Page 30 of 34 
ability to differentiate its offerings, such as through its hybrid NBN modem with 
4G mobile back up. This is discussed further below. 
Removal of Vodafone as a potential effective competitor for retail fixed 
broadband services  
167. The ACCC is considering whether the proposed merger would likely lead to the 
loss of a significant potential competitor for retail fixed broadband services. The 
ACCC is considering whether, in the absence of the proposed merger, Vodafone 
will continue to expand its presence in the supply of retail fixed broadband 
services, and therefore become an effective competitive constraint on the four 
major providers. In particular, the ACCC is considering whether Vodafone has 
the ability to become a long-term viable, effective and sustainable retail fixed 
broadband (and mobile) service provider.   
168. As noted above, on 4 December 2017, Vodafone announced its first NBN retail 
fixed broadband offering.29 The ACCC understand that as at 13 August 2018, 
Vodafone was connected to 91 of the 121 NBN Points of Interconnection and 
purchases access directly from NBN Co, offering retail NBN broadband services 
in metropolitan areas including Sydney, Canberra, Melbourne, Geelong, 
Wollongong and Newcastle. Vodafone has started to grow its NBN subscriber 
base and appears to be well-positioned to gain market share as the NBN rollout 
continues.  
169. The ACCC is considering whether Vodafone will compete effectively on price in 
the market for retail fixed broadband services. In August 2018, Vodafone 
lowered its retail fixed broadband prices in line with TPG’s at the cheaper end of 
the retail fixed broadband services market. The ACCC has observed that 
Vodafone has been aggressive in its pricing and marketing strategies to try to 
grow its retail fixed broadband customer base on the NBN. 
170. For example, when Vodafone launched its NBN product, it offered three months’ 
free plan fees for eligible customers connecting to 24 month plans.30 This 
illustrates that Vodafone has adopted an aggressive competitive strategy to seek 
to win customers from competitors and establish a sustainable retail fixed 
broadband customer base. The ACCC is continuing to consider the level of 
competitive constraint Vodafone will place on the major providers in the retail 
fixed broadband market.  
171. Vodafone is able to differentiate its product from most other retail fixed 
broadband providers because it is also an MNO. In particular, Vodafone has the 
ability to provide competitive multi-service fixed and mobile bundles unlike most 
of its competitors. Vodafone is offering savings of 15 to 20 per cent when 
customers bundle eligible plans under one account. For example, bundling two 
plans will save a customer 5 per cent on the combined bundle price. The ACCC 
is continuing to consider the importance of fixed and mobile bundles or 
discounts, and their impact on the competitive dynamics in the retail fixed 
broadband market. 
                                                 
 
29 Vodafone, Vodafone nbn launches in Sydney, Canberra, Melbourne, Geelong & Newcastle, 4 December 2017, 
https://www.vodafone.com.au/media/vodafone-nbn-launches. 
30 Vodafone, Vodafone nbn launches in Sydney, Canberra, Melbourne, Geelong & Newcastle, 4 December 2017, 
https://www.vodafone.com.au/media/vodafone-nbn-launches. 


TPG Telecom Limited – proposed merger with Vodafone Hutchison Australia 
 
Page 31 of 34 
172. The ACCC is considering whether Vodafone will act as an effective competitor in 
the retail fixed broadband services market. In Vodafone’s NBN announcement it 
stated: “Vodafone nbn™ is taking the lead in the customer experience, offering 
unlimited broadband data and a unique set of initiatives designed to make the 
nbn™ process simple and fair”.31 The ACCC considers Vodafone has already 
shown its potential competitive behaviour by offering a hybrid modem for its NBN 
product that switches to Vodafone’s 4G network as back up when there are NBN 
outages. Vodafone’s Chief Executive Officer, Inaki Berroeta, has stated that he 
is “proud of the Vodafone nbn™ product which will deliver a converged internet 
experience”.32 Telstra also offers a similar hybrid modem with 4G mobile 
backup.  
173. Vodafone is also well-placed to offer content and entertainment services in 
conjunction with its retail fixed broadband offerings. In March 2018, Vodafone 
announced a partnership with Netflix and unveiled Vodafone TV, its first-ever 
streaming media device.33 Vodafone offered customers a complimentary pre-
paid 12-month standard subscription to Netflix on two of its NBN plans.  
174. The ACCC considers Vodafone is in a better position compared to other new 
entrants to expand its retail fixed broadband market share to compete with the 
established larger providers. As noted above, Vodafone is a global, well-
recognised brand. Vodafone has a strong bricks and mortar retail presence for 
mobile services that it can leverage in expanding its retail fixed broadband 
presence. Vodafone also has a substantial mobile customer base that it is able 
to cross-sell retail fixed broadband services.  
175. Market feedback has indicated Vodafone’s and Telstra’s innovative 4G backup 
service offer for their retail NBN services has given them a competitive 
advantage. Market feedback has also identified Vodafone’s ability to offer multi-
service bundles on its own network to be a competitive advantage over other 
competitors as it cannot be replicated by other providers, apart from Telstra and 
Optus to date.  
176. The ACCC is continuing to consider whether Vodafone is likely to be an effective 
competitor and therefore able to provide an effective constraint on the major 
retail fixed broadband service providers going forward.  
ACCC’s preliminary views 
177. In summary, the ACCC is considering whether the removal of Vodafone as a 
potential effective competitor in the supply of retail fixed broadband services may 
result in:  
 
higher prices for retail fixed broadband services, and/or  
 
lower quality services including lower data inclusions or poorer performance. 
                                                 
 
31 Vodafone, Vodafone nbn launches in Sydney, Canberra, Melbourne, Geelong & Newcastle, 4 December 2017, 
https://www.vodafone.com.au/media/vodafone-nbn-launches. 
32 Vodafone, Vodafone nbn launches in Sydney, Canberra, Melbourne, Geelong & Newcastle, 4 December 2017, 
https://www.vodafone.com.au/media/vodafone-nbn-launches. 
33 Vodafone, Vodafone hits play with Netflix and fast forwards rollout of nbn, 28 March 2018.  
https://www.vodafone.com.au/media/vodafone-hits-play-with-netflix-and-fast-forwards-rollout-of-nbn. 


TPG Telecom Limited – proposed merger with Vodafone Hutchison Australia 
 
Page 32 of 34 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to the 
loss of Vodafone as the fifth major service provider in the market for retail fixed 
broadband services.  In particular, market participants may wish to comment on the 
following: 
 
the key aspects of their offerings on which retail fixed broadband service providers 
compete (for example, but not limited to, price, internet speed, bricks and mortar 
stores, brand recognition, ability to provide multi-service bundles etc.) 
 
how Vodafone is placed with regard to the key competitive factors identified above 
 
whether the key competitive factors in competing in the market for retail fixed 
broadband services are likely to change in the near future  
 
the key barriers to entry or expansion 
 
whether the NBN has reduced the barriers to entry or expansion 
 
the most effective ways, and the ability of NBN resellers, to provide differentiated 
offerings in the retail fixed broadband services market in light of the current 
wholesale pricing structure and retail fixed broadband environment. Please 
indicate in your response whether this differs according to whether NBN resellers 
acquire NBN access services directly from NBN Co or from a supplier of NBN 
wholesale aggregation services. 
Issue that may raise concerns: loss of competitive tension 
in a market for retail home broadband services in the 
longer term 
178. The ACCC is concerned that the proposed merger may substantially lessen 
competition in a future market for retail home broadband services, particularly 
after the rollout of 5G mobile technology.  
179. The ACCC’s Communications Sector Market Study noted that there is currently 
some substitution between fixed and mobile broadband services, typically 
amongst consumers who require small data inclusions. At present, consumers 
typically have a fixed broadband service as their primary home broadband 
service as these services are considered to be more reliable and better value for 
money with larger data inclusions. Some consumers may supplement this 
primary service with a mobile broadband service.  
180. In the future, particularly after the roll-out of 5G mobile technology, mobile 
networks are likely to be increasingly used to supply retail home broadband 
services. 5G mobile networks will be able to offer faster speeds than existing 
legacy copper fixed line networks and comparable speeds to next generation 
fibre networks, such as the NBN. As a result, retail fixed broadband service 
providers and mobile service providers, particularly the MNOs, may increasingly 
compete for the same consumers of home broadband services.  
181. There is significant structural change with the transition from Telstra’s copper 
network to the NBN. In the ACCC’s Communications Sector Market Study, 
industry stakeholders raised a number of issues in relation to the NBN, including 


TPG Telecom Limited – proposed merger with Vodafone Hutchison Australia 
 
Page 33 of 34 
concerns about the cost of NBN wholesale access services, and their long term 
commercial viability.   
182. As a result of these concerns, the ACCC understands that some retail fixed 
broadband service providers are looking at different ways to deliver broadband 
services to homes, rather than using the NBN.  
183. In particular, those service providers who have their own mobile network will be 
able to offer consumers the choice of a fixed or mobile broadband service that 
can be used in the home. These service providers may have greater incentives 
to steer their customers towards a mobile broadband service (rather than an 
NBN service) if it is more cost effective to do so. In turn, as more attractive 
mobile broadband services become available, there may be an acceleration of 
consumer substitution from fixed to mobile broadband services.  
184. The ACCC is considering whether these technological advancements, changing 
consumer preferences and NBN wholesale access prices could change the 
competitive dynamics such that the relevant product market in the next 3 to 5 
years could comprise a market for the supply of home broadband services (over 
either a mobile network, or a fixed network such as the NBN).  
185. The potential for substitution from fixed to mobile broadband for home 
broadband services will likely be greater for consumers in metropolitan areas, as 
they may have better access to 5G mobile services. The ACCC is therefore 
considering whether the geographic scope of the potential relevant market for 
the supply of home broadband services should be limited to metropolitan areas.  
186. The ACCC considers that the barriers to entry into the home broadband services 
market will be high, as they are broadly similar to those for mobile and fixed 
broadband services markets (as outlined in paragraphs 122-124 and 159-166 
above). However, they may differ according to the network used to provide the 
home broadband service.   
187. The ACCC considers that the barriers to entry and expansion currently faced by 
prospective MNOs are unlikely to change significantly once 5G mobile 
technology becomes widely available.  
188. Barriers to entry may increase for new MNO entrants seeking to deploy a 5G 
mobile network as they will need to build a dense network of small cell 
infrastructure to achieve reasonable coverage and support high data traffic. 
Dense small cell networks are costly and community opposition to small cell 
rollout can cause delays, additional costs, and potentially damage brand 
reputation. 
189. In a future retail home broadband services market, MNOs will increasingly 
compete against retail fixed broadband service providers to deliver home 
broadband services to consumers.   
190. The ACCC considers that absent the merger, the likely key competitors in any 
home broadband services market would be Telstra, Optus, Vodafone, TPG, and 
Vocus. Smaller fixed retail service providers and MVNOs are also likely to 
compete in this market, however, consistent with previous considerations and 
current market dynamics, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that these service 
providers may not provide a significant competitive constraint on the larger 
service providers.  


TPG Telecom Limited – proposed merger with Vodafone Hutchison Australia 
 
Page 34 of 34 
191. In a future home broadband services market, Vocus will be the only key market 
participant without its own mobile network. Vocus will likely continue to offer NBN 
broadband services.  
192. The ACCC is considering whether, absent the proposed merger, Vodafone and 
TPG would be strong competitors in a future retail home broadband services 
market.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the above issues.  In 
particular, market participants may wish to comment on the following: 
 
the extent to which mobile broadband services can currently be used for retail 
home broadband services instead of fixed broadband service 
 
whether there are any barriers to significantly increasing the amount of data on the 
4G network that would limit its effectiveness for widespread use for home 
broadband services 
 
whether or not the rollout of 5G mobile technology will lead to an increase in 
mobile broadband being used for home broadband services instead of fixed 
broadband services 
 
how the barriers to entry to a market for the supply of home broadband services 
are likely to compare to current barriers to entry to fixed broadband and mobile 
broadband services markets 
 
the ability of telecommunications providers without their own mobile network to 
compete effectively in a market for home broadband services 
 
whether any impact of the rollout of 5G on the market for home broadband 
services is likely to be confined to metropolitan areas, or extend to regional areas. 
ACCC's future steps 
193. As noted above, the ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on 
each of the issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue 
that may be relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. Submissions are 
to be received by the ACCC no later than 5pm on 18 January 2019 and should 
be emailed to TPG-Vodafone-Mergers@accc.gov.au. 
194. The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
195. The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 28 March 2019. 
However the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose 
of explaining the ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's 
public announcement to explain its final view. 
