 
 
11 May 2011 
 
Statement of Issues — Wesfarmers Ltd – possible 
acquisition of interests in Burrup Holdings Ltd and/or 
Burrup Fertilisers Pty Ltd 
1. 
Outlined below is the Statement of Issues released by the Australian Competition 
and Consumer Commission (ACCC) in relation to the possible acquisition of 
interests in Burrup Holdings Ltd (Burrup Holdings) and/or Burrup Fertilisers 
Pty Ltd (Burrup Fertilisers) (together, Burrup) by Wesfarmers Ltd 
(Wesfarmers) (possible acquisition). 
2. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well 
as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
3. 
In line with the ACCC’s Merger Review Process Guidelines (available on the 
ACCC’s website at www.accc.gov.au) the ACCC has established a secondary 
timeline for further consideration of the issues. The ACCC anticipates completing 
further market inquiries by 30 May 2011 and anticipates making a final decision 
on 23 June 2011. However, the anticipated timeline can change in line with the 
Merger Review Process Guidelines. To keep abreast of possible changes in 
relation to timing and to find relevant documents, market participants should visit 
the Mergers Register on the ACCC's website at 
www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
4. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 
Background 
5. 
On 17 December 2010, receivers and managers of PPB Advisory (the receivers) 
were appointed to Burrup Fertilisers and certain shareholdings of its holding 
company, Burrup Holdings. The receivers have appointed Flagstaff Partners as 
corporate advisors for the sale process. Flagstaff Partners have not yet 
commenced a sale process, which is expected to commence shortly.  


 
6. 
On 14 February 2011, the ACCC commenced a review of Wesfarmers’ possible 
acquisition of interests in Burrup following receipt of Wesfarmers submission on 
11 February 2011 requesting ACCC merger review. 
The parties 
Wesfarmers Ltd 
7. 
Wesfarmers is an Australian listed public company with business operations in 
the retail, resources, insurance, chemicals, energy, fertilisers and industrial 
sectors.  
8. 
Wesfarmers subsidiary CSBP Limited (CSBP) operates an integrated ammonia, 
ammonium nitrate and fertiliser complex located at Kwinana near Perth, Western 
Australia. For ease of reference, Wesfarmers and CSBP are referred to 
collectively as Wesfarmers for the remainder of this document.  
9. 
Wesfarmers announced in early 2010 that it proposes to expand its current 
ammonium nitrate production capacity at Kwinana (the proposed Wesfarmers 
expansion). A Public Environmental Review process commenced in November 
2010 
10. 
Wesfarmers also has a 50% interest in Queensland Nitrates Pty Ltd (QNP) which 
operates a fully integrated ammonia and ammonium nitrate plant near Moura in 
central Queensland.   
Burrup 
11. 
Burrup Holdings is an Australian based private company which is 65% owned by 
the Oswal family and 35% by Yara International ASA (Yara). Burrup Fertilisers, 
which is a wholly owned subsidiary of Burrup Holdings, owns and operates an 
ammonia plant located on the Burrup Peninsula, Western Australia, 
approximately 300 kilometres from the Pilbara region..  
12. 
The ammonia facility has been operational since June 2006 and is capable of 
producing 760,000 tonnes of ammonia annually, which represents approximately 
four percent of world production of traded ammonia. The facility is not vertically 
integrated, and all of the ammonia produced is sold to Yara pursuant to a 20 year 
off-take agreement (Yara off-take agreement).  
13. 
Burrup Nitrates Pty Ltd (Burrup Nitrates) is 50% owned by Burrup Holdings, 
and 50% by Yara. Burrup Nitrates proposes to construct and operate an 
ammonium nitrate facility adjacent to the Burrup Fertilisers ammonia plant. 
Burrup Nitrate’s proposed ammonium nitrate plant is expected to have a capacity 
of 350,000 tonnes per annum and is expected to produce explosive grade 
ammonium nitrate (EGAN). 
 
2


 
14. 
Figure 1 below represents the ownership structure of Burrup: 
15. 
Figure 1: Burrup Ownership Structure  
Burrup Trust 
(Oswal Family) 
Yara International 
ASA 
Burrup Holdings 
Ltd 
Burrup Fertilisers 
Pty Ltd 
Burrup Nitrates  
Pty Ltd 
50% 
50% 
65% 
35% 
100% 
 
Other industry participants 
Yara  
16. 
Yara is a Norwegian based multinational chemical company, listed on the Oslo 
Stock Exchange. Yara produces nitrogen based fertilisers, ammonia, ammonium 
nitrate, urea and other nitrogen-based chemicals. Yara has an Australian 
subsidiary, Yara Australia Pty Ltd. Internationally, it has operations and offices in 
50 countries, and sells product to more than 120 countries. 
17. 
Under a 20 year off-take agreement which Yara has signed with Burrup, Yara is 
the exclusive purchaser of all ammonia produced by Burrup. The ammonia 
purchased by Yara is sold to customers in Australia including Orica and 
Wesfarmers, and exported from Burrup to overseas markets. 
Orica Ltd 
18. 
Orica Ltd (Orica) is an Australian-based publicly listed company which operates 
through three platforms; Orica Mining Services, Orica Chemicals and Minova.  
19. 
Orica Mining Services operates an integrated ammonia and ammonium nitrate 
facility at Kooragang Island in New South Wales and an ammonium nitrate 
facility at Yarwun in Queensland. In addition to these Australian-based facilities; 
Orica has interests in ammonium nitrate production facilities in the Philippines, 
Canada, Mexico, the United States of America and Thailand.  
 
3


 
Incitec Pivot Ltd  
20. 
Incitec Pivot Ltd (Incitec Pivot) is publicly listed on the Australian Securities 
Exchange and manufactures and supplies fertilisers, explosives products and 
industrial chemicals to Australian and overseas customers. Incitec Pivot 
distributes and markets explosives and related products through its subsidiary 
Dyno Nobel Pty Ltd.  
21. 
Incitec Pivot operates ammonia plants at Phosphate Hill in Queensland, and 
Gibson Island in Queensland. Incitec Pivot also has a 50% interest in QNP (the 
other 50% interest in QNP being held by Wesfarmers), an integrated ammonia, 
ammonium nitrate and nitric acid plant at Moura, Queensland. Additionally, 
Incitec Pivot is currently constructing an integrated ammonia and ammonium 
nitrate plant in Moranbah, Queensland.  
22. 
Incitec Pivot’s subsidiary, Dampier Nitrogen Pty Ltd, has announced plans to 
construct and operate an ammonium nitrate facility in Dampier, Western 
Australia in close proximity to the current Burrup plant. Incitec Pivot is in the 
process of obtaining environmental approvals.  
Industry Background  
Ammonia 
23. 
Anhydrous ammonia (ammonia) is a gaseous compound of nitrogen (extracted 
from air) and hydrogen (typically generated from natural gas). It is stored as a 
liquid at low temperature or under pressure. Natural gas is often the key feedstock 
for the production of ammonia. 
24. 
Ammonia is a chemical used in the production of nitrogen based fertilisers and in 
non-fertiliser applications such as metal leaching, plastic production, refrigerator 
gas and as an input to the production of ammonium nitrate for explosives. 
25. 
According to Fertecon, global ammonia capacity was 204.5 million tonnes a year 
in 2010. This is forecast to rise to 236.7 million tonnes by 2020.1 
26. 
Ammonia is produced by manufacturers either for sale (known as merchant 
ammonia), or for own use at vertically integrated facilities (known as captive 
ammonia). Some captive producers also trade in merchant ammonia. Operating 
on the Burrup Peninsula in Western Australia, Burrup is the largest and only 
exclusive merchant producer of ammonia in Australia (i.e. Burrup is not currently 
a captive producer of ammonia). Merchant ammonia is produced as a contestable 
source of ammonia in significant tradeable quantities. 
27. 
Vertically integrated ammonia producers in Australia include Wesfarmers, QNP, 
Incitec Pivot, Orica and Queensland Nickel Pty Ltd. Each of these entities 
produces ammonia onsite for their own use, mainly for conversion into fertilisers 
and/or ammonium nitrate. The ammonia produced at these sites is not typically 
available for purchase by third parties. 
                                                 
1 Fertecon Limited, Ammonia Outlook, Issue 2010-3, January 2011. 
 
4


 
28. 
Customers not vertically integrated into the production of ammonia are reliant on 
the supply of ammonia from third parties. In particular, these are customers 
whose demand may be too small to justify the investment required to produce 
ammonia themselves or establish an import operation. The main customers of 
ammonia in Australia, outside of captive ammonia producers, are in the nickel 
industry and various other industrial users. 
29. 
Ammonia is typically supplied to customers in Australia under fixed price long 
term contracts, or linked to global ammonia benchmark prices, such as the Far 
East or Middle East ammonia price as published in industry publications. 
Ammonium Nitrate 
30. 
Ammonium nitrate, produced from feedstock ammonia, is a key input to the 
production of explosives and nitrogen based fertilisers. Ammonium nitrate is 
manufactured as a solution (ANSOL) and can be further processed to form a 
solid product in the form of granules known as ammonium nitrate prills 
(Figure 2).  
Figure 2: Ammonium Nitrate Production Process  
 
AMMONIA PLANT 
(air + natural gas) 
AMMONIUM NITRATE 
SOLUTION (ANSOL) 
(ammonia + nitric acid) 
NITRIC ACID PLANT 
(air + ammonia + water) 
AMMONIUM NITRATE PRILL
PRILLING PLANT 
(ANSOL is concentrated and 
sprayed into a prilling tower) 
EMULSION 
31. 
There are three broad types of ammonium nitrate: 
• ANSOL, which is used in the production of ammonium nitrate prills, liquid 
fertiliser and emulsion explosives; 
• Fertiliser grade ammonium nitrate (FGAN) – which are high density ammonium 
nitrate prills commonly used as a fertiliser but can be used in the production of 
emulsion explosives; and 
 
5


 
• Explosive grade ammonium nitrate (EGAN)2 – which are low density 
ammonium nitrate prills used in the manufacture of explosives. 
32. 
There are three manufacturers of ammonium nitrate in Australia: CSBP 
(Wesfarmers wholly owned subsidiary), Orica and QNP (a 50:50 joint venture 
company owned by Wesfarmers and Incitec Pivot). 
33. 
Unlike ammonia, there is no published index for the price of ammonium nitrate. 
The ACCC understands that prices of ammonium nitrate reflect the outcome of 
negotiations between sellers and buyers based on their views of prevailing market 
prices. 
34. 
Globally, ammonium nitrate is largely used in the manufacture of nitrogen based 
fertilisers. However, greater levels of mining activity in Australia have meant that 
the majority of ammonium nitrate produced in Australia is used to manufacture 
explosives. The mining industry will continue to account for the bulk of sales as 
mining production volumes are expected to grow, especially iron ore mining in 
the Pilbara region of Western Australia. 
The transaction 
35. 
As it is not yet known how the sale of Burrup will be structured, Wesfarmers 
have sought ACCC clearance to acquire all or part of Burrup. The ACCC has 
assessed the possible acquisition on the basis that Wesfarmers would acquire 
control of Burrup should the possible acquisition proceed. 
Market inquiries 
36. 
On 14 February 2011, the ACCC commenced market inquiries regarding 
Wesfarmers’ possible acquisition. A range of interested parties provided 
responses, including suppliers and customers of ammonia and ammonium nitrate 
as well as port authorities. 
With/without test 
37. 
In assessing a merger pursuant to section 50 of the Competition and Consumer 
Act 2010, the ACCC must consider the effects of the transaction by comparing 
the likely competitive environment post-acquisition if the transaction proceeds 
(the “with” position) to the likely competitive environment if the transaction does 
not proceed (the “without” position or “counterfactual” position) to determine 
whether the acquisition is likely to substantially lessen competition in any 
relevant market.  
38. 
In the event that Wesfarmers does not acquire Burrup, the likely counterfactual 
appears to be that another alternative entity will be the successful bidder for 
Burrup and/or interests in Burrup Nitrates. The ACCC commenced a review of 
Orica’s possible acquisition of interests in Burrup on 7 March 2011 and Incitec 
Pivot’s possible acquisition of interests in Burrup on 2 May 2011. However, there 
may be other potential alternative bidders interested in purchasing the assets. 
                                                 
2 EGAN is also known as technical ammonium nitrate (TAN) and industrial grade ammonium nitrate. 
 
6


 
39. 
Although Burrup is in receivership, the ACCC considers it unlikely that Burrup’s 
assets would exit the industry. Market participants indicate that Burrup’s 
ammonia plant is highly regarded in the industry, being a high quality and 
relatively modern plant that has access to a low cost gas supply. Burrup’s 
ammonia plant is therefore attractive to a number of alternative bidders. 
40. 
As indicated above, the ACCC understands that Burrup Nitrates – a 50:50 joint 
venture between Burrup Holdings and Yara – has proposed to construct and 
operate an ammonium nitrate facility adjacent to Burrup Fertiliser’s existing 
ammonia plant on the Burrup Peninsula (Burrup Nitrates project). 
41. 
Given that a sale process has not yet commenced, the ACCC is not yet in a 
position to reach a final view on the likely counterfactual to Wesfarmers possible 
acquisition at this time. The ACCC notes that the analysis of possible competition 
issues may differ depending on the counterfactual. 
42. 
At this time, for the purposes of this Statement of Issues, the ACCC has adopted 
a conservative approach to consider the possible acquisition against a 
counterfactual in which Burrup is sold to an entity that has no existing 
manufacturing interests in the supply of ammonia or ammonium nitrate in 
Western Australia, and would facilitate the timely construction of the Burrup 
Nitrates project. The ACCC continues to explore the likely counterfactual to the 
possible acquisition. 
The ACCC invites comments from interested parties on the likely 
counterfactual(s) 
The ACCC seeks information to assist the ACCC in forming a view on the relevant 
counterfactual(s), including information and evidence as to the likely competition 
effects if the Wesfarmers possible acquisition does not proceed.  
In particular, the ACCC is interested in the likelihood of any alternative purchasers 
creating an increased competitive force in the supply of ammonium nitrate in 
Western Australia. 
 
7


 
Market definition 
43. 
On the basis of its inquiries to date, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the 
following markets are relevant to the possible acquisition: 
• the market for the supply of ammonia in Western Australia and; 
• the market for the supply of ammonium nitrate in Western Australia. 
Market for the supply of ammonia 
44. 
Ammonia has a range of uses, in particular for the production of nitrogen based 
fertilisers and ammonium nitrate (which itself can be a fertiliser). Due to its 
unique characteristics, ammonia has a low degree of demand side substitutability 
with other chemical products. It is unlikely that customers would consider 
alternative chemicals to be an effective substitute. 
45. 
On the supply side, it is unlikely that manufacturers of alternative chemicals 
could readily switch to produce ammonia as significant new investment would be 
required. Ammonia plants are designed, engineered and constructed for the 
specific purpose of producing ammonia. Therefore, alternative chemical plants 
are unlikely to be able to provide supply side substitutability. 
46. 
With regard to the geographic dimension of the market, the ACCC understands 
that apart from the ammonia produced by Burrup Fertilisers, some of which is 
consumed by customers on the eastern seaboard, all of the ammonia produced on 
the eastern seaboard is utilised or sold on the eastern seaboard and all of the 
ammonia produced in Western Australia is utilised or sold in Western Australia. 
This suggests that demand-side substitutability may be asymmetric, such that 
ammonia may be transported from the west coast to the east coast, but not vice 
versa, due to the lack of merchant ammonia suppliers on the east coast. 
47. 
In any event, the ACCC’s market inquiries suggest that sourcing ammonia from 
the east coast of Australia is not viable because of transportation costs (road/rail) 
which are prohibitive and that shipping ammonia is not viable for small industrial 
users of ammonia. Market inquiries suggest that there is a lack of access to 
independently owned or operated import related infrastructure (e.g. ammonia 
pipeline and storage tanks) in Western Australia. Further, market inquiries have 
indicated that the demand for ammonia from customers requiring smaller 
quantities of merchant ammonia may be too little to justify the investment 
required to make it economically viable to import ammonia. The competitive 
threat posed by potential imports of ammonia is further discussed below. 
48. 
In light of the above, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that there is a market for 
the supply of ammonia in Western Australia. 
Market for the supply of ammonium nitrate 
49. 
As noted above, ammonium nitrate is used as an input in the manufacture of 
explosives or fertiliser. Ammonium nitrate is produced and traded in three 
different forms: (i) ANSOL; (ii) FGAN; and (iii) EGAN.  
 
8


 
50. 
ANSOL is a common input into the production of both FGAN and EGAN. The 
ACCC understands that some ammonium nitrate plants exclusively produce 
either FGAN or EGAN, but that there is the possibility of supply side substitution 
between the two products because it is possible for some plants to produce both 
products. Thus, it is possible that the pricing of FGAN and EGAN is constrained 
by the ability of manufacturers to switch between the two products.  
51. 
The ACCC understands that due to cost and technical differences, there is little 
demand side substitutability between EGAN and FGAN.  
52. 
On the basis of market enquiries to date, the ACCC has taken the view that the 
product dimension of the market may encompass ANSOL, FGAN and EGAN.  
However, the ACCC continues to consider whether the extent of any supply side 
substitutability is sufficient to define a broader product market for ammonium 
nitrate or whether separate products markets for EGAN and FGAN are more 
appropriately considered.  
53. 
The ACCC is interested in market participants views as to the timeframes, tooling 
costs and economic viability of converting production facilities which exclusively 
produce FGAN to produce EGAN and vice versa. 
54. 
The ACCC considers that, regardless of the product market definition adopted, 
the competition analysis is unlikely to be affected. As the competitive overlap 
between the merger parties relates to the supply of EGAN, and this is focus of the 
competitive analysis set out below, it is unlikely that the competitive analysis  
would be significantly different if a separate market for EGAN rather than a 
broader market for ammonium nitrate was identified. 
55. 
Given that EGAN is used almost exclusively as an input into the manufacture of 
ammonium nitrate fuel oil (ANFO), the ACCC also considered whether ANFO 
and EGAN should be considered to form an integrated product market. However, 
despite the fact that ammonium nitrate is used as an input into ANFO, the 
ACCC’s preliminary view is that both ANFO and EGAN are separately traded 
products with their own supply and demand characteristics.  
56. 
As with ammonia, it is unlikely that manufacturers of alternative chemicals could 
readily switch to produce ammonium nitrate as significant new investment would 
be required. Ammonium nitrate plants are designed, engineered and constructed 
for the specific purpose of producing ammonium nitrate. Therefore, alternative 
chemical plants are not likely to be able to provide supply side substitutability. 
57. 
With regard to the geographic dimension of the market, market inquiries suggest 
that there is a distinct Western Australian market for the supply of ammonium 
nitrate. Ammonium nitrate produced in Western Australia is consumed within the 
state and, due to transportation costs and other factors, imports generally only 
occur to cover shortfalls in local supply. The potential for importation of 
ammonium nitrate is considered further below. 
58. 
In light of the above, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that one of the relevant 
markets in this matter is a market for the supply of ammonium nitrate in Western 
Australia. However, the ACCC also considers that its analysis is unlikely to 
 
9


 
materially differ if the relevant market is a market for the supply of EGAN in 
Western Australia. 
The ACCC invites comments from interested parties on the proposed product 
market definition for the supply of ammonium nitrate 
In particular, the ACCC seeks further information on supply side substitution in 
relation to the production of FGAN and EGAN and whether separate markets exist 
for the supply of ANSOL, EGAN and FGAN. 
The ACCC seeks further information as to the nature of tooling or other costs and 
necessary infrastructure as well as timeframes that would be faced by a 
manufacturer of EGAN in switching into the manufacture of FGAN, or vice versa. 
Statement of issues 
59. 
For the purposes of this Statement of Issues, the issues in this matter are divided 
into two categories 'issues that may raise concerns' and 'issues unlikely to pose 
concerns'. 
Issues that may raise concerns 
Market for the supply of ammonium nitrate 
60. 
Notwithstanding that Wesfarmers and Burrup do not currently overlap in the 
supply of any ammonium nitrate products, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that 
the possible acquisition may raise competition concerns in the Western Australian 
market for the supply of ammonium nitrate. In particular, the possible acquisition 
could eliminate a strong potential competitor to Wesfarmers for the supply of 
EGAN in Western Australia – the Burrup Nitrates project. 
61. 
Market inquiries to date indicate this is a market where there is currently only one 
local supplier – Wesfarmers – and where imports may only provide a weak 
competitive constraint on local suppliers. In addition, demand for ammonium 
nitrate is forecast to increase significantly in the Pilbara area, where large mining 
companies are expanding their mining operations.  
62. 
As outlined above, Burrup Nitrates has announced plans to build an ammonium 
nitrate plant on the Burrup Peninsula which is intended to manufacture EGAN. 
Thus, the supply of EGAN to mining companies and contractors supplying 
explosives products has been the focus of the ACCC’s investigation. 
63. 
In this context, the possible acquisition could lessen competition for the supply of 
ammonium nitrate in Western Australia by preventing the introduction of a 
competitive and alternative local source of supply which may occur if Burrup is 
acquired by Wesfarmers. 
64. 
The ACCC has received no information to suggest that the proposed Burrup 
Nitrates project could or would manufacture FGAN or be an activate participant 
in the fertiliser industry. The ACCC understands that the plant is intended to 
 
10


 
manufacture and supply EGAN to customers in the Pilbara region for the purpose 
of manufacturing ANFO. Accordingly, at this time the ACCC has not identified 
that the issue outlined above would impact significantly on the fertiliser industry.  
However, the ACCC welcomes market participants views as to the potential 
impact of the possible acquisition in the fertiliser industry before reaching a 
concluded view on this issue. 
Burrup Nitrates Pty Ltd 
65. 
As indicated above, Burrup Nitrates has plans to construct an ammonium nitrate 
plant producing EGAN on the Burrup Peninsula, approximately 13km north west 
of Karratha in Western Australia.3 These plans are currently on hold pending the 
resolution of the Burrup Holdings’ sale process.  
66. 
Market participants indicated that the Burrup Nitrates project would be a strong, 
competitive, source of supply of EGAN in the Western Australian market. 
67. 
If Wesfarmers acquired a controlling interest in Burrup, it may have the ability 
and incentive to prevent Burrup Nitrates from constructing this proposed 
ammonium nitrate plant. This would eliminate a potential source of competition 
to the Wesfarmers ammonium nitrate plant in Kwinana. This reduced choice of 
potential options may result in increased prices or reduced quality of service to 
mining customers and contractors supplying explosives products. 
The ACCC invites comments from interested parties on the potential 
competitiveness of the proposed Burrup nitrates ammonium nitrate plant 
The ACCC seeks further information on the competitive threat that could be 
exerted by the Burrup Nitrates project and the extent to which having two, instead 
of one, ammonium nitrate manufacturers in Western Australia would deliver better 
outcomes for end users. 
In addition, the ACCC is interested in the likely timing for construction of the 
proposed Burrup Nitrates plant and whether alternative ammonium nitrate plant/s 
may be constructed by competing manufacturers within this timeframe. 
Barriers to entry 
68. 
There are currently three proposals for new or expanded EGAN plants in Western 
Australia: (1) the proposed Wesfarmers expansion in Kwinana; (2) the Burrup 
Nitrates project; and (3) the proposed Incitec Pivot plant in Dampier.  
69. 
Each of these proposed plants is intended to supply EGAN to meet the increasing 
demand for explosives driven by growth in the mining sector in Western 
Australia. 
70. 
Market participants have indicated that only one of these plants is likely to be 
built prior to approximately 2020, as any one of these plants would be sufficient 
to meet forecast industry demand in Western Australia until that time. Market 
                                                 
3 http://burrupnitrates.com/project.html 
 
11


 
participants have indicated that it would not be commercially viable to build a 
plant which would cause the market to have substantial excess capacity for a 
sustained period of time. 
71. 
The ACCC considers that new entry is only likely prior to approximately 2020 if 
that new entry has a realistic prospect of securing foundation customer contracts 
and being operational prior to Wesfarmers’ proposed expansion proceeding.  
The ACCC invites comments from interested parties regarding barriers to entry 
into the manufacture of ammonium nitrate in Western Australia 
In particular the ACCC seeks information as to whether Wesfarmers’ possible 
acquisition of Burrup reduces the possibility that new entry in Western Australia 
could occur. 
In responding, the ACCC asks interested parties to consider and provide relevant 
information on: 
• the long lead times (regulatory and construction); 
• the need to secure long term foundation contracts with ammonium nitrate 
customers; 
• the potential timing advantages of constructing a brownfields expansion of an 
ammonium nitrate facility (such as Wesfarmers integrated facility at Kwinana) 
in comparison to a greenfields development of an ammonium nitrate plant in a 
remote region such as the Burrup Peninsula; 
• the potential transport cost advantages of constructing an ammonium plant in 
the Burrup Peninsula relatively proximate to the location of mining customers 
in the Pilbara region in comparison to an ammonium nitrate plant located at 
Kwinana near Perth; 
• the potential manufacturing cost advantages of Burrup’s gas supply contract 
pricing (which has been speculated to be significantly cheaper than current gas 
pricing); and 
• the potential construction and ongoing operating cost disadvantage of building 
an ammonium nitrate plant in a remote region such as the Burrup Peninsula. 
Imports of ammonium nitrate 
72. 
A number of market participants have indicated that imports provide only a weak 
source of competitive constraint upon domestic supply in the Western Australian 
ammonium nitrate market. However, some market participants have also 
indicated that any difficulties associated with importation are not insurmountable. 
The ACCC also notes that there are significant volumes of bulk EGAN imported 
into Queensland. The ACCC has not reached a concluded view on the 
competitive constraint posed by imports of EGAN upon domestic supply and is 
seeking further information and comment on this issue. 
 
12


 
73. 
Presently, no party is engaged in the bulk importation of EGAN into Western 
Australia. While some bulk imports have occurred in the past, market participants 
have indicated that such importation is seen as a temporary measure to meet 
shortfalls in domestic supply and that domestically sourced ammonium nitrate is 
highly preferable to imported ammonium nitrate. 
74. 
Market participants have highlighted a number of difficulties with importation of 
EGAN which suggest that a competitor with a local manufacturing presence, 
based in the Burrup Peninsula, would pose a greater competitive constraint to 
Wesfarmers: 
• Port access. Market participants indicated that to be cost competitive, 
importation of ammonium nitrate would need to involve bulk shipments of at 
least 3,000-6,000 tonnes per shipment. While there is limited regulatory 
restrictions on importing small quantities of ammonium nitrate in shipping 
containers, bulk importation requires the relevant port to have special berth 
approval from the Western Australian Department of Mines and Petroleum. 
Port Hedland is the port most proximate to the Pilbara region where the 
majority of EGAN is consumed in Western Australia. Port Hedland does not 
currently have special berth approval for the importation of ammonium nitrate. 
While special berth approval at Port Hedland is currently being sought, the 
ACCC understands that due to heavily utilisation of the existing port facilities, 
such approval is only likely to be granted for the importation of a relatively 
small volume of ammonium nitrate. However, the ACCC also understands that 
there are plans to expand the port which may be completed after 2013 and at 
this point a significant volume of ammonium nitrate may be imported into Port 
Hedland. 
Other ports in Western Australia, such as Broome, Fremantle and Wyndham 
do have special berth approval for ammonium nitrate importation. However 
market participants indicated that importation into these ports is an 
unattractive option due to the added transportation cost of supplying 
ammonium nitrate to the Pilbara by truck from these distant ports. 
• Port storage facilities. Market participants also indicated that access to 
storage at or within a short distance of the port site is important to enable 
efficient unloading of shipments and avoid excessive handling costs. While 
such storage facilities are either available or could be built at Wyndham, 
Broome and Port Hedland, market participants indicated that it was difficult to 
secure storage facilities of a sufficient size and location near the Port of 
Fremantle. 
• Product quality and consistency. Market participants submitted that in 
considering importation of EGAN, it is important to source product of a 
consistent quality and consistency. For mining customers, using poor quality 
EGAN can cause reductions in the productivity of blasting processes and, at 
worst, product may not be able to be used and must therefore be disposed of. 
In the Pilbara, it can take several weeks to acquire replacement EGAN due to 
the long supply chains involved, leaving the miner exposed to a disruption to 
their production. Product quality and consistency is also an important factor in 
 
13


 
being able to effectively and efficiently use ammonium nitrate to produce 
ANFO explosives. 
EGAN is produced as a low-density prill and has a number of technical 
characteristics that cause it to degrade during importation. As EGAN crosses 
certain temperature thresholds, it undergoes chemical changes which cause it 
to cake and become less friable (i.e. it becomes more caked and has a less 
powdery consistency). Exposure to moisture or humid air can also have the 
same effect. Friability is an important property of EGAN to allow it to be 
efficiently mixed with fuel oil to make ANFO in specialised machinery. This 
means that individual shipments of imported ammonium nitrate will be of 
variable quality and consistency, requiring measures to be taken to assess 
landed product quality and physically break up any product which is 
insufficiently friable to be used to manufacture ANFO. 
Issues relating to technical degradation of EGAN are particularly problematic 
if the product has to be brought across the equator. As a large proportion of 
internationally available ammonium nitrate is sourced in the northern 
hemisphere, this is an issue for EGAN imported into Australia.  
Market inquires have indicated that while there are measures which can be 
taken when importing EGAN to mitigate against product degradation or to 
restore the product to a usable form once it is landed, these measures add 
expense and do not entirely eliminate the issue relating to product quality and 
consistency. 
Market participants also indicated that it was not possible to source large 
volumes of EGAN for importation from a single point of supply. Any 
importation that was undertaken would have to be done from multiple sources 
over time. This adds another level of inconsistency to the ammonium nitrate 
supplied by an importer, meaning the product may require further handling 
procedures and costs to be suitable for use in the manufacture of ANFO. 
• Security of supply. Imports of ammonium nitrate involve long lead times 
when compared to domestic supply. EGAN sourced from Russia, the Middle 
East or Asia involve between 10 and 24 days sailing time. If the product is 
purchased on a spot basis, there may be additional delays relating to when 
suppliers have product available for export. These lead times mean that if 
there is any supply disruption, obtaining replacement ammonium nitrate may 
take some time which could potentially cause a disruption to the customer’s 
mining operations. Such a disruption would be extremely costly to Australian 
miners. The relative security of supply offered by domestic production is 
another reason why customers may prefer domestic supply. 
75. 
Due to some combination of the above factors, most market participants 
expressed the view that while it may be possible to import certain volumes of 
EGAN, domestic supply is preferred when it is available. This is reflected in the 
fact that market participants appear to be willing to offer ammonium nitrate 
suppliers a price premium for domestically supplied product 
 
14


 
The ACCC invites comments from interested parties on imports of ammonium 
nitrate 
The ACCC seeks information on the level of constraint that imported ammonium 
nitrate places on domestic manufacturers of ammonium nitrate, in particular, in 
Western Australia.  
The ACCC seeks information on the viability of imported ammonium nitrate in 
Western Australia as an alternative to local supply. In particular, the ACCC seeks 
further information on barriers to importation and the extent to which these barriers 
will be removed in the short to medium turn. 
The ACCC asks interested parties to comment on the following: 
• whether imports of ammonium nitrate are only likely to occur in the future in 
circumstances where domestic demand exceeds domestic supply; 
• to what extent product quality and consistency issues are a barrier to 
importation; 
• whether the level of imports of ammonium nitrate into Western Australia may 
increase in the foreseeable future, for instance, following increased port access 
and volume limits at Port Hedland or other ports; 
• the extent to which market participants are willing to pay a premium for local as 
opposed to imported supply; and 
• the extent to which anti-dumping duties significantly limit the competitive 
constraint posed by imports of ammonium nitrate. 
Pricing dynamics for ammonium nitrate in Western Australia 
76. 
Whilst market inquiries have indicated, as outlined above, that there are a number 
of difficulties associated with the importation of ammonium nitrate into Western 
Australia, some market participants have told the ACCC that pricing of 
ammonium nitrate in Western Australia was determined by reference to the cost 
of importation of ammonium nitrate (an import parity price), or by an estimate of 
forward looking import parity prices in the case of long term contracts.  
77. 
To the extent that the import parity price constrains the price of domestic supplies 
of ammonium nitrate, then actual or potential ammonium nitrate imports may 
provide a source of competitive constraint in the Western Australian market. In 
contrast, if imports of ammonium nitrate are not a competitive constraint then a 
domestic supplier would not necessarily have regard to the cost of importing in 
setting prices. 
78. 
The ACCC notes that it may be difficult for market participants to assess the true 
cost of importation during negotiations surrounding a contracted import parity 
price. This is because there is no international benchmark pricing of ammonium 
nitrate and few, if any, parties are actively involved in the bulk importation of 
ammonium nitrate into Western Australia. Thus it is difficult to assess whether 
 
15


 
current pricing levels reflect the true cost of importing ammonium nitrate into 
Western Australia, and accordingly, to what extent potential imports are an 
effective competitive constraint in the relevant market. 
79. 
Nevertheless, import parity pricing may be relevant to the way in which prices 
are set in the relevant market. The ACCC considers that different pricing 
outcomes for the supply of EGAN may be observed in circumstances where the 
Western Australia market has excess capacity depending on whether there are 
one or more local suppliers. If there is one local supplier, the ACCC’s 
preliminary view is that customers are likely to pay the import parity price 
regardless of whether there is excess capacity as imports are their only other 
alternative source of supply for customers. In this circumstance the domestic 
producer would export any excess production.  
80. 
However, the ACCC considers that where there is excess capacity and more than 
one local supplier, it would be expected that prices would be competed down to 
export parity levels.   
81. 
Market inquiries suggest that domestic suppliers would find it uneconomic to 
build sufficient capacity such that the market was oversupplied in the long term. 
However, if there are two Western Australian producers of ammonium nitrate, 
the ACCC considers there may be periods of time where competition to secure 
future demand could cause producers to expand capacity at their plants earlier 
than they otherwise would in the absence of a competing domestic manufacturer 
which could lead to situations where the domestic market is oversupplied. 
The ACCC invites comments from interested parties on the pricing of ammonium 
nitrate in Western Australia 
The ACCC seeks information as to the extent that pricing of ammonium nitrate is 
determined by an assessment of the import parity price. The ACCC is also seeking 
information as to whether market participants consider that there is transparency as 
to the cost of importing ammonium nitrate, should they be unable or unwilling to 
acquire supplies from a local manufacturer. 
The ACCC also seeks information as to the extent that prices would be likely to be 
set by reference to import parity prices in the event that a second ammonium nitrate 
plant was constructed in Western Australia, for instance, on the Burrup Peninsula. 
The ACCC also seeks information as to the extent that any existing premium for 
security of supply and/or product quality and consistency incorporated into 
domestic pricing for supply of ammonium nitrate would be likely to be removed or 
reduced in the event a second ammonium nitrate plant was constructed in Western 
Australia, for instance, on the Burrup Peninsula.  
The ACCC also seeks information as to the variance in current domestic pricing for 
supply of ammonium nitrate in Western Australia (where there is a single 
manufacturer of ammonium nitrate) in comparison to the east coast (where multiple 
manufacturers of ammonium nitrate are located). 
 
16


 
The ACCC seeks information as to whether and to what extent competition to meet 
growing demand between multiple Western Australian ammonium nitrate 
manufacturers could lead to better pricing outcomes, compared to a situation where 
there was only one manufacturer in the state. 
Countervailing power 
82. 
The ACCC notes that many of the end users of EGAN or ANFO in Western 
Australia are large, multinational mining companies with significant financial 
resources. However the ACCC does not consider that this fact on its own gives 
these parties countervailing power. The ACCC considers that the issues outlined 
above relating to barriers to entry and imports indicate that, regardless of their 
financial capabilities, customers are unlikely to be in a position to credibly 
threaten to bypass domestic suppliers to a significant extent.  
Issues unlikely to pose concerns 
Market for the supply of ammonia 
83. 
The ACCC has examined the potential for competition concerns to arise in 
relation to the supply of ammonia in Western Australia. The ACCC’s preliminary 
view is that the possible acquisition is unlikely to raise significant competition 
concerns in this market. 
84. 
In assessing the competition effect of the possible acquisition, the ACCC has 
focused on the supply of merchant ammonia which is produced as a contestable 
source of ammonia. Burrup is the only significant supplier of merchant ammonia 
in Western Australia.  
85. 
In contrast, captive ammonia produced by vertically integrated firms for their 
own use is not typically traded in the ammonia market. As well as their own 
production, some captive ammonia producers trade in merchant ammonia. 
86. 
Wesfarmers is a captive ammonia producer as well as a trader of merchant 
ammonia. Wesfarmers supplies merchant ammonia to customers in the nickel 
industry and a small number of other industrial users. For the purposes of 
manufacturing ammonium nitrate, Wesfarmers uses is required to reserve a large 
amount of its ammonia for captive purposes, rather than trading merchant 
ammonia. 
87. 
A key factor relevant to the ACCC’s assessment of the proposed acquisition is 
the existence of the Yara off-take agreement between Yara and Burrup. As 
indicated above, under the 20 year Yara off-take agreement, all of the ammonia 
produced by Burrup is sold to Yara on an exclusive basis.  
88. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the existence of the Yara off-take 
agreement means that the possible acquisition is unlikely to structurally change 
the current state of competition in the market for the supply of ammonia in 
Western Australia in the foreseeable future. 
 
17


 
89. 
Irrespective of Burrup’s ownership structure, Yara remains the exclusive 
purchaser of all ammonia produced by Burrup. On the basis that the Yara off-take 
agreement continues post-acquisition of Burrup, Wesfarmers would not have 
direct rights to the ammonia produced by Burrup, with or without the possible 
acquisition, for the next 15 years or more. 
90. 
Even if the Yara off-take agreement did not continue to exist post-acquisition of 
Burrup, market inquiries to date suggest that competition between Wesfarmers 
and Burrup with respect to merchant ammonia is currently limited, and is likely 
to remain so in the foreseeable future, with or without the possible acquisition. 
The currently limited competition between Wesfarmers and Burrup for the supply 
of merchant ammonia appears to be a consequence of the physical distance 
between Burrup and Wesfarmers existing ammonia customers. 
91. 
Most domestic customers of merchant ammonia in Western Australia are 
physically located in proximity to Wesfarmers integrated complex at Kwinana. 
These customers receive product from Wesfarmers by pipeline, truck and/or rail 
and do not have access to independently owned or operated import infrastructure 
capable of receiving imports of ammonia by ship. 
92. 
In contrast, Burrup’s ammonia plant is located further north on the Burrup 
Peninsula. The Burrup plant currently does not have any ammonia handling 
facilities to load ammonia onto trucks or the ability to transport ammonia by rail. 
All of its ammonia is piped to the Port of Dampier for shipping.  
93. 
Whilst information to date indicates there is limited competition, or potential 
competition between Wesfarmers and Burrup for the supply of ammonia in 
Western Australia, the ACCC is interested in seeking further information on this 
issue prior to forming a concluded view. 
94. 
The ACCC has also examined the potential for imports to constrain the domestic 
supply of ammonia. The ACCC has received conflicting views from market 
participants as to the economic viability of importing ammonia and therefore the 
competitive threat posed by potential imports of ammonia. 
95. 
Market inquiries suggest that there is a lack of independently owned or operated 
port and related infrastructure to support the shipping, unloading and moving of 
ammonia in Western Australia. The ACCC understands that only two terminals 
currently exist in Western Australia which are capable of bulk imports of 
ammonia. These are the Port of Dampier which is used by Burrup to export 
ammonia and the Fremantle Port Authority’s ‘Kwinana Bulk Jetty’ at Kwinana 
which is used by Wesfarmers to import. 
96. 
The ACCC understands that infrastructure required to import ammonia includes  
a pipeline and sufficiently sized storage tanks capable of receiving large 
shipments of ammonia.  
97. 
The ACCC understands that Wesfarmers owns or operates the pipeline and 
storage tanks which it uses to import ammonia into Kwinana. Similarly, Burrup 
owns or operates the pipeline and storage tanks on the Burrup Peninsula. 
 
18


 
98. 
The ACCC’s market inquiries suggest that a limitation on the potential for 
imports of ammonia for certain customers, in particular smaller customers of 
merchant ammonia, is the need to have ready access to an appropriately designed 
port and infrastructure to receive viable sized shipments of ammonia by sea, 
including a pipeline to move ammonia from the port to sufficiently large storage 
tanks. 
99. 
Customers requiring smaller quantities are typically supplied by truck and/or rail 
within the state of Western Australia, whereas larger integrated producers have 
their own access to import terminals. The demand for ammonia from customers 
requiring smaller quantities may be too little to justify the investment required to 
produce ammonia themselves or establish an import operation. 
100. While the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the acquisition of interests in Burrup 
by Wesfarmers is unlikely to raise significant competition concerns in the market 
for the supply of ammonia in Western Australia, the ACCC welcomes comments 
regarding its preliminary findings in this market; in particular, the ability of 
imports to pose a competitive constraint and the extent of any competitive 
overlap between the supply of ammonia from Burrup’s and Wesfarmers’ 
ammonia plants. 
ACCC's future steps 
101. The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers market responses 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
102. The ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on each of the issues 
identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that may be relevant 
to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. 
103. Submissions are to be received by the ACCC no later than 30 May 2011. The 
ACCC will consider the submissions received from the market and the merger 
parties in light of the issues identified above and will, in conjunction with 
information and submissions already provided by the parties, come to a final 
view in light of the issues raised above. 
104. The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 23 June 2011. However 
the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Merger Review Process 
Guidelines. A public Competition Assessment for the purpose of explaining the 
ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's public 
announcement. 
 
19
