 
Public Competition Assessment 
19 August 2011 
Wesfarmers Ltd - proposed acquisition of interests in Burrup 
Holdings Ltd and/or Burrup Fertilisers Pty Ltd 
Introduction 
1. 
On 27 July 2011, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission 
(ACCC) announced its decision not to oppose the proposed acquisition of 
interests in Burrup Holdings Ltd (Burrup Holdings) and/or Burrup Fertilisers 
Pty Ltd (Burrup Fertilisers) (together, Burrup) by Wesfarmers Ltd 
(Wesfarmers) (the proposed acquisition). The ACCC decided that the proposed 
acquisition would be unlikely to have the effect of substantially lessening 
competition in any relevant market in contravention of section 50 of the 
Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the Act). 
2. 
The ACCC made its decision on the basis of the information provided by the 
merger parties and information arising from its market inquiries. This Public 
Competition Assessment outlines the basis on which the ACCC has reached its 
decision on the proposed acquisition, subject to confidentiality considerations. 
Public Competition Assessment 
3. 
To provide an enhanced level of transparency and procedural fairness in its 
decision making process, the ACCC issues a Public Competition Assessment for 
all transaction proposals where: 
 a merger is opposed; 
 a merger is subject to enforceable undertakings; 
 the merger parties seek such disclosure; or 
 a merger is not opposed but raises important issues that the ACCC considers 
should be made public. 
4. 
This Public Competition Assessment has been issued because the proposed 
acquisition is considered to raise issues of interest to the public. 


 
-2- 
5. 
By issuing Public Competition Assessments, the ACCC aims to provide the 
public with a better understanding of the ACCC's analysis of various markets and 
the associated merger and competition issues. It also alerts the public to 
circumstances where the ACCC’s assessment of the competition conditions in 
particular markets is changing, or likely to change.  
6. 
Each Public Competition Assessment is specific to the particular transaction 
under review by the ACCC. While some transaction proposals may involve the 
same or related markets, it should not be assumed that the analysis and decision 
outlined in one Public Competition Assessment will be conclusive of the ACCC’s 
view in respect of other transaction proposals, as each matter will be considered 
on its own merits.  
7. 
Public Competition Assessments outline the ACCC’s principal reasons for 
forming views on a proposed acquisition at the time the decision was made. As 
such Public Competition Assessments may not definitively identify and explain 
all issues that the ACCC considers arise from a proposed acquisition. Further, the 
ACCC’s decisions generally involve consideration of both non-confidential and 
confidential information provided by the merger parties and market participants. 
In order to maintain the confidentiality of particular information, Public 
Competition Assessments do not contain any confidential information or its 
sources. 
The parties 
The acquirer: Wesfarmers Ltd 
8. 
Wesfarmers is an Australian listed public company with business operations in 
the retail, resources, insurance, chemicals, energy, fertilisers and industrial 
sectors.  
9. 
Wesfarmers subsidiary CSBP Limited (CSBP) operates a vertically integrated 
ammonia, ammonium nitrate and fertiliser complex located at Kwinana near 
Perth, Western Australia. For ease of reference, Wesfarmers and CSBP are 
referred to collectively as Wesfarmers for the remainder of this document.  
10. 
Wesfarmers announced in early 2010 that it proposes to expand its current 
ammonium nitrate production capacity at Kwinana (the proposed Wesfarmers 
expansion).  
11. 
Wesfarmers also has a 50% interest in Queensland Nitrates Pty Ltd (QNP) which 
operates a fully integrated ammonia and ammonium nitrate plant near Moura in 
central Queensland.   
The target: Burrup Holdings Pty Ltd/Burrup Fertilisers Pty Ltd 
12. 
Burrup Holdings is an Australian based private company which is 65% owned by 
the Oswal family and 35% by Yara International ASA (Yara). Burrup Fertilisers, 
which is a wholly owned subsidiary of Burrup Holdings, owns and operates an 
ammonia plant located on the Burrup Peninsula, Western Australia, 
approximately 300 kilometres from the Pilbara region. 


 
-3- 
13. 
The ammonia facility has been operational since June 2006 and is capable of 
producing 760,000 tonnes of ammonia annually, which represents approximately 
four percent of world production of traded ammonia. The facility is not vertically 
integrated, and all of the ammonia produced is sold to Yara pursuant to a 20 year 
off-take agreement (Yara off-take agreement).  
14. 
Burrup Nitrates Pty Ltd (Burrup Nitrates) is 50% owned by Burrup Holdings, 
and 50% by Yara. Burrup Nitrates proposes to construct and operate an 
ammonium nitrate facility adjacent to Burrup Fertilisers ammonia plant (the 
Burrup Nitrates plant). The Burrup Nitrates plant is expected to have a capacity 
of 350,000 tonnes per annum and is expected to produce explosives-grade 
ammonium nitrate (EGAN). 
15. 
Figure 1 below represents the ownership structure of Burrup: 
Figure 1: Burrup Ownership Structure  
 
Other industry participants 
Yara  
16. 
Yara is a Norwegian based multinational chemical company, listed on the Oslo 
Stock Exchange. Yara produces nitrogen based fertilisers, ammonia, ammonium 
nitrate, urea and other nitrogen-based chemicals. Yara has an Australian 
subsidiary, Yara Australia Pty Ltd. Internationally, Yara has operations and 
offices in 50 countries, and sells product to more than 120 countries. 
17. 
Under a 20 year off-take agreement which Yara has signed with Burrup, Yara is 
the exclusive purchaser of all ammonia produced by Burrup. The ammonia 
purchased by Yara is sold to customers in Australia including Orica and 
Wesfarmers, and exported from Burrup to overseas markets. 
Burrup Trust 
(Oswal Family) 
Yara International 
ASA 
Burrup Holdings 
Ltd 
Burrup Fertilisers 
Pty Ltd 
Burrup Nitrates  
Pty Ltd 
50% 
50% 
65% 
35% 
100% 


 
-4- 
Orica Ltd 
18. 
Orica Ltd (Orica) is an Australian-based publicly listed company which operates 
through three platforms; Orica Mining Services, Orica Chemicals and Minova.  
19. 
Orica Mining Services operates an integrated ammonia and ammonium nitrate 
facility at Kooragang Island in New South Wales and an ammonium nitrate 
facility at Yarwun in Queensland. In addition to these Australian-based facilities 
Orica has interests in ammonium nitrate production facilities in the Philippines, 
Canada, Mexico, the United States of America and Thailand.  
Incitec Pivot Ltd  
20. 
Incitec Pivot Ltd (Incitec Pivot) is publicly listed on the Australian Securities 
Exchange and manufactures and supplies fertilisers, explosives products and 
industrial chemicals to Australian and overseas customers. Incitec Pivot 
distributes and markets explosives and related products through its subsidiary 
Dyno Nobel Pty Ltd.  
21. 
Incitec Pivot operates ammonia plants at Phosphate Hill in Queensland, and 
Gibson Island in Queensland. Incitec Pivot also has a 50% interest in QNP (the 
other 50% interest in QNP being held by Wesfarmers), an integrated ammonia, 
ammonium nitrate and nitric acid plant at Moura, Queensland. Incitec Pivot is 
currently constructing an integrated ammonia and ammonium nitrate plant in 
Moranbah, Queensland.  
22. 
Incitec Pivot’s subsidiary, Dampier Nitrogen Pty Ltd, has announced plans to 
construct and operate an ammonium nitrate facility in Dampier, Western 
Australia, close to the current Burrup ammonia plant. Incitec Pivot is in the 
process of obtaining environmental approvals.  
The proposed transaction 
23. 
On 17 December 2010, receivers and managers of PPB Advisory (the receivers) 
were appointed to Burrup Fertilisers and certain shareholdings of its holding 
company, Burrup Holdings.  
24. 
On 11 February 2011, Wesfarmers requested that the ACCC review the proposed 
acquisition in anticipation of an expected sale of interests in Burrup Holdings 
and/or Burrup Fertilisers. The ACCC review commenced on 14 February 2011. 
In its submission, Wesfarmers stated that it proposed to acquire all or part of 
Burrup Fertilisers, its assets or the shares in Burrup Holdings. If Wesfarmers 
acquired the shares of Burrup Holdings, it would also acquire a 50% interest in 
Burrup Nitrates. 
25. 
In May 2011, the receivers commenced a process to sell the Burrup assets. 


 
-5- 
Industry Background  
Ammonia 
26. 
Anhydrous ammonia (ammonia) is a gaseous compound of nitrogen (extracted 
from air) and hydrogen (typically generated from natural gas) used in the 
production of nitrogen based fertilisers and in non-fertiliser applications such as 
metal leaching, plastic production, refrigerator gas and as an input to the 
production of ammonium nitrate for explosives. 
27. 
According to Fertecon, global ammonia capacity was 204.5 million tonnes a year 
in 2010. This is forecast to rise to 236.7 million tonnes by 2020.1 
28. 
Ammonia is produced by manufacturers either for sale (known as merchant 
ammonia), or for own use at vertically integrated facilities (known as captive 
ammonia). Some producers of captive ammonia also trade in merchant ammonia. 
Operating on the Burrup Peninsula in Western Australia, Burrup is the largest and 
only exclusive merchant producer of ammonia in Australia (i.e. Burrup is not 
currently a captive producer of ammonia). Merchant ammonia is produced as a 
contestable source of ammonia in significant tradeable quantities. 
Ammonium Nitrate 
29. 
Ammonium nitrate, produced from feedstock ammonia, is a key input to the 
production of explosives and nitrogen based fertilisers. Ammonium nitrate is 
manufactured as a solution (ANSOL) and can be further processed to form a 
solid product in the form of granules known as ammonium nitrate prills 
(Figure 2).  
Figure 2: Ammonium Nitrate Production Process  
 
                                                 
1 Fertecon Limited, Ammonia Outlook, Issue 2010-3, January 2011. 
AMMONIA PLANT
(air + natural gas) 
AMMONIUM NITRATE 
SOLUTION (ANSOL) 
(ammonia + nitric acid) 
NITRIC ACID PLANT
(air + ammonia + water) 
AMMONIUM NITRATE PRILL
PRILLING PLANT
(ANSOL is concentrated and 
sprayed into a prilling tower) 
EMULSION 


 
-6- 
30. 
There are three broad types of ammonium nitrate: 
 ANSOL, which is used in the production of ammonium nitrate prills, liquid 
fertiliser and emulsion explosives; 
 Fertiliser grade ammonium nitrate (FGAN) – which are high density 
ammonium nitrate prills commonly used as a fertiliser but can be used in the 
production of emulsion explosives; and 
 EGAN2 – which are low density ammonium nitrate prills used in the 
manufacture of explosives. 
31. 
There are three manufacturers of ammonium nitrate in Australia: Wesfarmers, 
Orica and QNP (a 50:50 joint venture company owned by Wesfarmers and 
Incitec Pivot). 
32. 
Globally, ammonium nitrate is largely used in the manufacture of nitrogen based 
fertilisers. However, greater levels of mining activity in Australia and regulatory 
restrictions relating to the transport and use of ammonia-based fertilisers have 
meant that the majority of ammonium nitrate produced in Australia is used to 
manufacture explosives. The mining industry will continue to account for the 
bulk of sales as mining production volumes are expected to grow, especially iron 
ore mining in the Pilbara region of Western Australia. 
Timing 
33. 
The following table outlines the timeline of key events in this matter. 
Date 
Event 
14-Feb-2011 
ACCC commenced review under the Merger Review Process Guidelines. 
01-Mar-2011 
Closing date for submissions from interested parties. 
09-Mar-2011 
ACCC requested further information from Wesfarmers. Former proposed date for 
announcement of ACCC's findings of 14 April 2011, amended to allow for provision 
of further information. 
21-Mar-2011 
ACCC received further information from Wesfarmers. ACCC timeline recommenced. 
07-Apr-2011 
ACCC timeline suspended pending receipt of further information requested from 
Burrup Holdings. Former proposed date of 28 April 2011 delayed to allow provision 
of information. 
18-Apr-2011 
ACCC received further information from Burrup Holdings. ACCC timeline 
recommenced. 
11-May-2011 
ACCC published a Statement of Issues outlining preliminary competition concerns. 
20-May-2011 
ACCC requested further information from Wesfarmers. Former proposed decision 
date of 23 June 2011 delayed. ACCC timeline suspended pending receipt of 
information requested. 
30-May-2011 
Closing date for submissions relating to Statement of Issues. 
04-Jul-2011 
ACCC received further information from Wesfarmers. ACCC timeline recommenced 
27-Jul-2011 
ACCC announced it would not oppose the proposed acquisition. 
                                                 
2 EGAN is also known as technical ammonium nitrate (TAN) and industrial grade ammonium nitrate. 


 
-7- 
Market inquiries 
34. 
The ACCC conducted market inquiries with a range of industry participants, 
including competitors, potential competitors, customers and other interested 
parties. Submissions were sought in relation to the substantive competition issues. 
Statement of Issues 
35. 
The ACCC published its Statement of Issues (the SoI) on 11 May 2011 
identifying one potential competition issue. In the SoI the ACCC’s preliminary 
view was that the proposed acquisition may raise competition concerns in the 
market for the supply of ammonium nitrate in Western Australia. The ACCC was 
concerned that the proposed acquisition could foreclose pro-competitive new 
entry in this market by preventing rival bidders from acquiring and developing 
the proposed Burrup Nitrates plant. 
36. 
The ACCC also identified a relevant market for the purposes of assessing the 
proposed acquisition to be a market for the supply of ammonia in Western 
Australia. The ACCC’s preliminary view was that the proposed acquisition was 
unlikely to raise competition concerns in the market for the supply of ammonia in 
Western Australia.  
With/without test 
37. 
In assessing a merger pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC must consider 
the effects of the transaction by comparing the likely competitive environment 
post-merger if the transaction proceeds (the “with” or “factual” position) to the 
likely competitive environment if the transaction does not proceed (the “without” 
or “counterfactual” position). 
38. 
In the absence of the proposed acquisition, the ACCC considered that it was 
likely that Burrup Holdings would be acquired by another entity. This was due to 
the fact that the existing assets of Burrup – primarily, the ammonia facility and 
favourably priced long-term gas supply contract – were highly regarded and 
sought after in the industry. As a result, there was strong interest from 
prospective purchasers. 
39. 
Rival bidders to Wesfarmers included, but were not limited to, Orica and Incitec 
Pivot.  The ACCC did not form a view as to whether any particular bidder should 
be identified as the likely alternative bidder without the proposed acquisition, as 
it would not have impacted on the ACCC’s decision in this matter. 
40. 
As part of its assessment of the future with and without the acquisition, the 
ACCC assessed whether the Burrup Nitrates plant was likely to be built and 
produce EGAN in the absence of the proposed acquisition. 


 
-8- 
41. 
Based on demand forecasts for EGAN, the ACCC considered that a single EGAN 
plant or expansion was likely to be sufficient to meet forecast demand for EGAN 
in Western Australia for the foreseeable future. Consequently, the ACCC 
considered that only one EGAN plant or expansion was likely to be constructed 
in Western Australia in this time frame. The ACCC formed the view that 
Wesfarmers was likely to proceed with the proposed expansion of its existing 
ammonium nitrate plant at Kwinana, Perth, irrespective of the outcome of the 
Burrup Holdings sale process. 
42. 
In forming the view that Wesfarmers was likely to proceed with its expansion, the 
ACCC had regard to the progress of the Wesfarmers proposed expansion, 
including the commitment of significant capital by the Board of Wesfarmers to 
this expansion. The ACCC also reviewed confidential term sheets and 
correspondence between Wesfarmers and its customers in relation to proposed 
supply from the expanded Wesfarmers plant. The ACCC also noted the 
announcement by Yara that the proposed Burrup Nitrates project had been 
delayed due to uncertainty surrounding the decision-making ability of the Board 
of Burrup Holdings. In the context of Wesfarmers continuing to make progress 
towards the construction of its plant expansion, such a delay made the Burrup 
Nitrates plant unlikely to proceed in the foreseeable future. 
43. 
On the basis that Wesfarmers was likely to proceed with the expansion of its 
existing ammonium nitrate plant ahead of the proposed Burrup Nitrates plant, the 
ACCC formed the view that irrespective of the ownership of Burrup Holdings, it 
would not be likely to build an alternative EGAN plant in the foreseeable future.  
Market One – Market for the supply of EGAN in Western Australia 
Market definition 
 
44. 
In the SoI, the ACCC identified a possible market for the supply of ammonium 
nitrate in Western Australia, on the basis of potential supply side substitutability 
between the production of different types of ammonium nitrate.  
45. 
The ACCC invited market participants to comment on the proposed market 
definition, and in particular the ACCC sought comment as to whether a narrower 
market for the supply of EGAN might be more appropriate.  
46. 
Information received by the ACCC subsequent to the SoI suggested that such 
supply side substitution was unlikely in Australia, due to costs associated with 
changing manufacturing processes as well as a lack of demand for FGAN in 
Australia. The ACCC also received information which confirmed that there was 
no demand side substitution between these types of ammonium nitrate. 
47. 
Thus, the ACCC considered that one of the relevant markets in this matter was 
the market for supply of EGAN in Western Australia. However the ACCC noted 
that the competition assessment was unlikely to be materially different if a 
broader market definition had been adopted. 


 
-9- 
Competition analysis 
48. 
In the SoI, the ACCC outlined a potential theory of harm whereby Wesfarmers 
acquisition of Burrup Holdings could have precluded new entry into the EGAN 
market by preventing construction of the Burrup Nitrates plant.  
49. 
The ACCC invited market participants to comment on the likelihood that any 
rival bidder would develop the proposed Burrup Nitrates plant if the proposed 
acquisition by Wesfarmers did not proceed, as well as the likely competitive 
effects of such a plant being constructed. 
50. 
For the reasons outlined above under ‘with/without test’, the ACCC found that it 
was unlikely that the Burrup Nitrates plant would be built in the foreseeable 
future regardless of who acquired Burrup Holdings. Thus, the ACCC found that 
the proposed acquisition would not be likely to substantially lessen competition 
in the market for the supply of EGAN in Western Australia by preventing 
construction of a new EGAN plant. 
51. 
The ACCC also did not consider that the proposed acquisition of interests in 
Burrup by Wesfarmers was likely to raise barriers to entry for rival ammonium 
nitrate plants in Western Australia over the longer term when sufficient demand 
for such investment might exist. In the long term (beyond a four to five year 
timeframe), the proposed acquisition was unlikely to foreclose new entry as there 
would be sufficient lead time for a new entrant to proceed to secure foundation 
customers to underwrite an alternative ammonium nitrate plant in Western 
Australia. The ACCC had regard to the number of very experienced large scale 
and well resourced players in the industry which would be capable of new entry 
in the longer term.  
Market Two – Market for the supply of ammonia in Western Australia 
Market definition 
 
52. 
Consistent with its preliminary views outlined in the SoI, the ACCC identified a 
further relevant market for the purposes of assessing the proposed acquisition to 
be a market for the supply of ammonia in Western Australia. The ACCC did not 
receive further information in regards to this market definition following the SoI. 
Competition analysis 
53. 
Consistent with its preliminary views outlined in the SoI, the ACCC formed the 
view that the proposed acquisition was unlikely to change the competitive 
dynamics in the market for the supply of ammonia in Western Australia in the 
foreseeable future.  
54. 
This was primarily due to the existence of the Yara off-take agreement. As a 
result of this agreement, Yara will remain the exclusive purchaser of all ammonia 
produced by Burrup. Accordingly, the proposed acquisition would not have 
resulted in Wesfarmers having direct rights to the ammonia produced by Burrup.  


 
-10- 
55. 
The ACCC also noted that Wesfarmers and Burrup did not closely compete 
against each other in the supply of ammonia in Western Australia, given 
Wesfarmers plant was located at Kwinana (near Perth) and Burrup was located in 
far north Western Australia. 
56. 
The ACCC did not receive any further submissions or information regarding the 
supply of ammonia following the release of the SoI. 
Conclusion 
57. 
On the basis of the above, the ACCC formed the view that the proposed 
acquisition of Burrup by Wesfarmers would not be likely to result in a substantial 
lessening of competition in either of the relevant markets in contravention of 
section 50 of the Act. 
 
