Page 1 of 10 
 
Public Competition Assessment 
4 December 2020 
Mylan – proposed combination with Pfizer’s Upjohn Inc. 
division  
 
The ACCC’s decision 
1. 
On 8 September 2020, the ACCC announced its decision not to oppose the 
proposed merger of Mylan N.V. (Mylan) and Pfizer’s Upjohn Inc. division 
(Upjohn) (the proposed transaction), after accepting section 87B divestiture 
undertakings from Mylan, Upjohn and Pfizer Inc. (Pfizer) (the Undertakings).  
2. 
The Undertakings required the divestment of the following products supplied to 
pharmacies and hospitals: 
 
Amlodipine/Atorvastatin (Brand name: Caduet) – a lipid-regulating 
cardiovascular treatment 
 
Latanoprost (Brand name: Xalatan) – an anti-glaucoma treatment 
 
Latanoprost/Timolol (Brand name: Xalacom) – an anti-glaucoma 
treatment 
(together, the divestiture package). 
3. 
The ACCC considers that the Undertakings sufficiently address its competition 
concerns such that the proposed transaction is unlikely to contravene section 50 
of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the Act). Section 50 prohibits 
acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of 
substantially lessening competition in any market. 
4. 
The ACCC considers that, without the divestiture package, the proposed 
transaction would be likely to substantially lessen competition in the supply, to 
hospitals and pharmacies, of each of the relevant products, which are used to 
treat cardiovascular conditions and certain types of glaucoma.  
5. 
This Public Competition Assessment outlines reasons for the decision by the 
ACCC not to oppose the proposed transaction, after accepting the Undertakings.  
6. 
ACCC public competition assessments are subject to the following qualifications: 


 
Page 2 of 10 
 
The ACCC considers each transaction on a case-by-case basis, so the 
analysis and decision outlined in one assessment will not necessarily 
reflect the ACCC’s view of another transaction.  
 
As assessments are relatively brief and do not refer to confidential 
information, assessments do not necessarily set out all of the issues and 
information considered by the ACCC.  
The parties and the transaction 
Mylan 
7. 
Mylan is incorporated under the laws of the Netherlands, publicly traded on the 
NASDAQ Global Select Market and a global pharmaceutical company that 
develops, manufactures, markets and sells generic and branded products, 
biosimilar medicines and over-the-counter (OTC) remedies.  
8. 
In Australia, Mylan supplies a portfolio of approximately 350 generic 
pharmaceutical drugs and over 450 branded, biosimilar medicines and OTC 
remedies to pharmacies and hospitals. Mylan runs its Australian operations 
through Alphapharm Pty Ltd, trading as Mylan Australia, which is a wholly-owned 
subsidiary of Mylan. 
Pfizer Inc. and Upjohn 
9. 
Pfizer is a global pharmaceutical company that develops, manufactures, markets 
and sells prescription medicines and OTC products.  
10. Upjohn is a wholly-owned and solely controlled subsidiary of Pfizer and conducts 
its Australian operations through Upjohn Australia Pty Ltd (Upjohn Australia). 
Upjohn manufactures and supplies branded and generic off-patent medicines.  
11. Globally, Upjohn supplies a portfolio of 21 off-patent pharmaceutical products, 18 
of which are sold in Australia through Upjohn Australia across the following key 
therapeutic areas: Cardiovascular, Neurology and Pain, Psychiatry, Urology and 
Ophthalmology. 
The transaction 
12. On 29 July 2019, Mylan and Pfizer entered into a transaction which involves the 
separation of Upjohn from Pfizer through a spin-off and its combination with 
Mylan. Upon closing of the transaction, Upjohn will be the ultimate parent entity 
of the combined group and be renamed ‘Viatris’. 
Market inquiries 
13. The ACCC conducted market inquiries with a range of industry participants, 
including manufacturers, wholesalers, retailers, competitors and government 
health departments. The ACCC consulted on the substantive competition issues 
and the Undertakings. 


 
Page 3 of 10 
Industry background 
Supply of prescription pharmaceuticals in Australia 
14. The prescription pharmaceutical supply chain in Australia operates across three 
levels: 
Diagram 1: Australian prescription pharmaceutical supply chain 
 
15. Manufacturing: pharmaceuticals are manufactured either in-house by 
manufacturers or contracted to third party manufacturers (or a combination of 
both). Manufacturers contract directly with pharmacies and hospitals to supply 
pharmaceutical products.  Manufacturers use wholesale distributors to distribute 
the pharmaceutical products to pharmacies and hospitals (there is limited direct 
distribution from manufacturers, but only to hospitals).  
16. Wholesale distributors: stock and distribute pharmaceutical products to 
pharmacies. Some distributors are eligible as National Distributors for the 
Community Service Obligation (CSO) funding pool. The CSO requires wholesale 
distributors to stock a full range of Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS) listed 
medicines for delivery to community pharmacies within 24 hours (or 72 hours in 
remote areas). Wholesale distributors also stock and distribute biosimilar 
medicines, OTC products and other fast-moving consumer goods (FMCG). 
Wholesale distributors also distribute pharmaceuticals to hospitals, on behalf of 
manufacturers. 
Branded and generic pharmaceuticals 
17. An originator or innovator product is the first new medicine to the market based 
on an active ingredient or using that active ingredient for a particular indication.  
These pharmaceutical products are typically patent-protected for a period of time 
(in Australia, the standard patent term is 20 years) and typically identified by their 
brand name. Pharmaceutical products, known as the branded, innovator or 
originator product, and typically identified by active ingredient, are protected. 
18. When a patent expires, the branded pharmaceutical product will potentially face 
competition from other suppliers producing generic bioequivalent copies of the 
originator product. Generic products are typically identified by active ingredient.   


 
Page 4 of 10 
19. Pharmacies typically stock a branded and, once available, a generic version of 
each prescription pharmaceutical product (with the same active ingredient). 
Unless the prescribing doctor prohibits substitution, pharmacists can recommend 
either a branded or generic product and patients can choose between the 
branded or generic product when having their prescription filled.  
PBS pricing  
20. The Pharmaceutical Benefits Pricing Authority sets the initial PBS List Price of a 
branded product that is listed on the PBS. The initial PBS List Price for a generic 
product, once the branded product is off-patent, is set by reference to the PBS 
List Price of the branded originator product. The generic product PBS List Price 
may be the same as or less than that of the branded originator product.  A price 
premium or brand premium, may apply to some branded products and is an 
additional charge payable for the branded product. Over time, the PBS List Price 
for both the branded and generic product typically decreases in line with 
statutory anniversary price reductions. In effect, the PBS List Price acts as a 
price cap on the price paid by patients for pharmaceutical products purchased in 
a pharmacy. 
Supply arrangements for generic and branded active ingredients 
Pharmacies 
21. Pharmacies/pharmacy groups enter into supply arrangements with 
manufacturers for a portfolio of generic products based on active ingredients, but 
typically contract on an individual active ingredient basis with each manufacturer 
that supplies a branded product.  
22. Generic product manufacturers typically offer incentives to pharmacies to 
encourage consumers to substitute a generic product for the equivalent branded 
product.  These incentives include the offer of volume rebates applied across the 
portfolio of generic products.  
Hospitals 
23. Hospitals typically procure pharmaceutical products through tender processes 
for each active ingredient. As a result, hospitals typically enter into supply 
arrangements for a particular active ingredient, rather than acquiring a portfolio 
of products from a single supplier.  
Anatomical Therapeutic Chemical classes 
24. The Anatomical Therapeutic Chemical (ATC) Classification system is a drug 
classification system (consisting of five levels) that classifies the active 
ingredients of drugs according to the organ or system on which they act and their 
therapeutic, pharmacological and chemical properties. It is developed and 
maintained by the European Pharmaceutical Market Research Association 
(EphMRA).   
25. The ATC system classifies products into cascading levels, generally according to 
their anatomical site of action, and their therapeutic, pharmacological and 
chemical composition. The following table provides an example of the ATC 
system using the cascading levels outlined above: 


 
Page 5 of 10 
Level 
Basis of classification 
Example 
1st level (ATC1) 
Anatomical group 
C – Cardiovascular System 
2nd level (ATC2) 
Therapeutic group 
C10 – Lipid modifying agents 
3rd level (ATC3) 
Pharmacological/Therapeutic treatment 
subgroup 
C10A – Lipid modifying 
agents, plain 
4th level (ATC4) 
Chemical/pharmacological/therapeutic 
subgroup 
C10A1 – Statins (HMG-CoA 
reductase inhibitors) 
Market definition 
26. The ACCC’s starting point for considering which markets will be affected by a 
proposed transaction is to identify the areas of overlap between the products 
actually or potentially supplied by the merger parties. The ACCC then considers 
other actual or potential suppliers of those products, as well as what other 
products constitute sufficiently close substitutes to provide a significant source of 
constraint on the merged entity.  
27. The parties overlap in the supply of 12 active ingredients in Australia across a 
broad range of therapeutic treatments (ATC3 class) as outlined below: 
Table 1: Overlapping active ingredients 
Active ingredient 
Product name 
Upjohn/Mylan 
Pharmacological / Therapeutic 
treatment subgroup  
ATC3 
class 
Amlodipine/Atorvastatin 
Caduet/Cadivast 
Lipid-regulating Cardiovascular 
Combinations 
C11A 
Amlodipine 
Norvasc/Nordip 
Calcium channel blockers 
C8A 
Atorvastatin 
Lipitor/Lorstat 
Lipid modifying agents, plain 
C10A 
Celecoxib 
Celebrex/Celaxib 
Anti-rheumatics, non-steroidal 
M1A 
Eplerenone 
Inspra/Inpler 
Low-ceiling Diuretics, thiazides 
C3A 
Gabapentin 
Neurontin/Nupentin 
Anti-epileptics 
N3A 
Latanoprost/Timolol 
Xalacom/Xalamol 
50/5 
Anti-glaucoma preparations and 
Miotics  
S1E 
Latanoprost 
Xalatan/Xalaprost 
Anti-glaucoma preparations and 
Miotics 
S1E 
Pregabalin 
Lyrica/Lyzalon 
Anti-epileptics 
N3A 
Sertraline 
Zoloft/Eleva 
Anti-depressants 
N6A 
Sildenafil 
Viagra/Vedafil 
Erectile dysfunction products 
G4E 


 
Page 6 of 10 
Active ingredient 
Product name 
Upjohn/Mylan 
Pharmacological / Therapeutic 
treatment subgroup  
ATC3 
class 
Venlafaxine 
Effexor/Venlofex 
Anti-depressants  
N6A 
28. For the purposes of assessing the proposed transaction, the ACCC considers it 
is appropriate to define separate markets for each active ingredient, or 
combination of active ingredients, rather than a market for a broader group of 
different active ingredients in the same ATC3 class.  
29. Market inquiries indicated that different active ingredients in the same ATC3 
class were not close substitutes for each other for the following reasons: 
 
pharmacies and hospitals purchase pharmaceutical products on the 
basis of the active ingredient, rather than products within the same ATC3 
class; 
 
pharmacies cannot substitute prescriptions from one active ingredient to 
another active ingredient within the same ATC3 class without the patient 
obtaining a new prescription from their prescribing doctor; and 
 
active ingredients within an ATC3 class may differ in their efficacy in 
treating a patient for a particular medical condition, limiting substitution 
opportunities for an individual patient. 
30. Both Mylan and Upjohn contract to supply products to pharmacies (distributed 
via wholesalers) and hospitals on a national basis, as do their competitors. As a 
result, the ACCC considers that the appropriate geographic market definition is a 
national market for the supply of pharmaceutical products based on their active 
ingredient to pharmacies and hospitals.   
Competition analysis 
31. The ACCC analysed a range of information, including internal documents from 
Mylan and Upjohn, and industry data. The ACCC also conducted extensive 
market inquiries with, and collected information from, interested third parties. 
32. The ACCC considers that due to the number and strength of competitors, the 
proposed transaction was unlikely to raise concerns for the supply of products 
with the following active ingredients: Amlodipine, Atorvastatin, Celecoxib, 
Eplerenone, Gabapentin, Pregabalin, Sertraline, Sildenafil, and Venlafaxine. 
33. The ACCC  identified competition concerns (outlined in detail below) in the 
supply of products with the active ingredients: 
 
Latanoprost  
 
Latanoprost/Timolol, and  
 
Amlodipine/Atorvastatin.  


 
Page 7 of 10 
Latanoprost 
34. Latanoprost is used in the treatment of open-angle glaucoma and ocular 
hypertension, and is delivered in the form of an eye drop.   
35. The proposed transaction would result in a reduction of competitors from three to 
two, with Viatris (post-transaction) holding a significant share of supply to 
pharmacies and hospitals. The only other supplier of Latanoprost would have a 
significantly smaller market share than Viatris, post-transaction.  
36. The ACCC considers that, for supply of Latanoprost to pharmacies, the only 
remaining competitor has a minimal market share and would not provide a 
sufficient competitive constraint on the merged entities’ price and service 
decisions. For the supply of Latanoprost to hospitals, while the remaining 
competitor has a more material presence, the ACCC considers that, taking into 
account market feedback and the manufacturing constraints outlined in the 
paragraph below, it may not provide a sufficient competitive constraint on the 
merged entities’ price and service decisions.  
37. Latanoprost must be manufactured in sterile production facilities. The ACCC 
understands that there are only a limited number of manufacturers globally who 
have the appropriate facilities, and that new entry into the supply of Latanoprost 
in Australia is unlikely to occur in response to an increase in price. 
38. In response to these concerns, Mylan/Upjohn offered to divest the Upjohn off-
patent branded product (Xalatan) to an ACCC approved purchaser.  
39. Xalatan is a strong brand with a significant share of the market and capable of 
being supplied by a manufacturer without a large portfolio of other products. The 
divestment is intended to enable a new supplier of anti-glaucoma treatments to 
replace the competitive constraint that would have been lost as a result of the 
proposed transaction.  
Latanoprost/Timolol 
40. Latanoprost/Timolol is a combined active ingredient product used in the 
treatment of open-angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension, and is delivered in 
the form of an eyedrop.   
41. The proposed transaction would have combined the two largest suppliers of the 
combination Latanoprost/Timolol to hospitals and pharmacies in Australia, and 
resulted in a significant reduction in competition.  
42. The only other supplier of Latanoprost/Timolol – Novartis/Sandoz – has a 
significantly smaller market share than Viatris will have post transaction. Taking 
into account market feedback and the manufacturing constraints outlined in the 
paragraph below, the ACCC considers that Novartis/Sandoz would be unlikely to 
provide a sufficient competitive constraint on Viatris’ price and service decisions. 
43. As with Latanoprost, Latanoprost/Timolol must be manufactured in sterile 
production facilities. The ACCC understands that there are only a limited number 
of manufacturers globally which have the appropriate facilities, and that new 
entry into the supply of Latanoprost/Timolol in Australia is unlikely to occur in 
response to an increase in price. 


 
Page 8 of 10 
44. To remedy the ACCC’s concerns, Mylan/Upjohn offered to divest the Upjohn off-
patent branded product (Xalacom) to an ACCC approved purchaser. 
45. Xalacom is a strong brand with a significant share of the market and capable of 
being supplied by a manufacturer without a large portfolio of other active 
ingredients. The divestment is intended to enable a new supplier of anti-
glaucoma treatments to replace the competitive constraint that would have been 
lost as a result of the proposed transaction.  
Amlodipine/Atorvastatin 
46. Amlodipine/Atorvastatin is a combined active ingredient product used in the 
treatment of hypertension and/or angina, treats cholesterol for those with high 
blood pressure and coronary heart disease, and hypercholesterolaemia. 
47. Upjohn and Mylan are currently the only suppliers of Amlodipine/Atorvastatin to 
hospitals and pharmacies in Australia. Mylan and Upjohn are the sole 
competitive constraints on each other’s price and service decisions in relation to 
the supply of the active ingredient. Following the transaction, there would be no 
remaining competitive constraints for the supply of the active ingredient.  
48. The ACCC considers that products containing the constituent Amlodipine and 
Atorvastatin active ingredients (purchased separately) would not closely 
constrain Viatris’ price and service decisions for the supply of the combined 
Amlodipine/Atorvastatin.  When patients are prescribed the combined 
Amlodipine/Atorvastatin, they are unable to substitute to the constituent active 
ingredients separately without a new prescription. This was confirmed by market 
inquires, and it was noted that the combination product is often prescribed to 
improve patient compliance in taking the prescribed dosage. 
49. Market inquiries also identified the reduced cost to patients of the combination 
Amlodipine/Atorvastatin combination product. If a patient were to purchase the 
Amlodipine product and Atorvastatin product separately, a second dispensing 
fee would need to be paid.  
50. Accordingly, the ACCC considers that products containing the individual 
constituent active ingredients are not close substitutes for the combination 
product.  
51. To remedy the ACCC’s concerns, Mylan/Upjohn offered to divest the Upjohn off-
patent branded product (Caduet) to an ACCC approved purchaser. 
52. Caduet is a strong brand with a significant share of the market and capable of 
being supplied by a manufacturer without a large portfolio of other active 
ingredients. The divestment is intended to enable a new supplier of cholesterol 
and triglyceride regulators to replace the competitive constraint that would have 
been lost as a result of the proposed transaction.  
Competition conclusions 
53. The ACCC considers that the concerns raised in relation to pharmaceutical 
products based on the active ingredients Latanoprost, Latanoprost/Timolol, and 
Amlodipine/Atorvastatin will be remedied by the divestiture package after Mylan 
and Upjohn gave the Undertakings pursuant to section 87B of the Act to divest 


 
Page 9 of 10 
the brands: Xalatan; Xalacom; and Caduet and Pfizer gave a supporting 
Undertaking.  
54. The ACCC accepted a divestment of the branded off-patent products rather than 
its generic equivalent, as branded products are supplied to pharmacies on an 
individual basis. In contrast, generic products are supplied to pharmacies on a 
portfolio basis and, as such, any potential purchaser of the equivalent generic 
products would need to have a significant existing portfolio of generic products in 
order to be a viable and effective future source of competitive constraint.  
The Undertakings 
55. Mylan, Upjohn and Pfizer offered court enforceable undertakings pursuant to 
section 87B of the Act to address the ACCC’s competition concerns. 
56. The ACCC spoke to a range of market participants about the Undertakings, 
which related to divestments of pharmaceutical products based on the active 
ingredients Latanoprost, Latanoprost/Timolol, and Amlodipine/Atorvastatin.  
57. The ACCC concluded that the Undertakings addressed its competition concerns 
with the proposed combination. A copy of the Undertakings are available on the 
ACCC mergers register and undertakings register. 
The Mylan/Upjohn Undertaking 
58. The key elements of the Mylan/Upjohn Undertaking are set out below:  
 
Mylan and Upjohn will divest the brands Caduet, Xalatan, and Xalacom, 
and the licences, agreements, assets, inventory and intellectual property, 
as well as certain rights in relation to Pfizer’s XAL-Ease eye dropper that is 
used to administer Xalacom and Xalatan (the Divestiture Business), 
required to facilitate the operation of the Divestiture Business in Australia.  
 
At the time the Undertaking was accepted, the ACCC approved Aspen 
Global Incorporated (AGI) as the Approved Purchaser of the Divestiture 
Business. Approval of AGI included approval of: 
o 
the Asset Purchase Agreement in the form of Confidential Schedule 
8 of the Undertaking as the approved Sale and Purchase Agreement, 
and 
o 
the Supply and Technology Transfer Agreement in the form of 
Confidential Schedule 9 of the Undertaking as the Approved 
Transitional Supply Agreement and Approved Transitional Technical 
Assistance Agreement. 
 
Mylan and Upjohn must appoint an ACCC approved independent auditor to 
monitor Mylan and Upjohn’s compliance with the Mylan/Upjohn 
Undertaking.  
 
In the event the business is not sold, the ACCC has the discretion to direct 
Mylan and Upjohn to appoint an ACCC approved independent manager to 


 
Page 10 of 10 
manage the Divestiture Business until the Divestiture Business is sold to 
an ACCC approved purchaser.  
The Pfizer Undertaking 
59. To support the Mylan/Upjohn Undertaking, the ACCC also accepted an 
Undertaking from Pfizer. Pfizer’s consent is needed in order for Mylan and 
Upjohn to transfer or licence certain intellectual property rights, manufacturing 
technology and scientific and regulatory materials to the Approved Purchaser. 
60. The objective of the Pfizer Undertaking is to support the operation of the 
Mylan/Upjohn Undertaking by ensuring that Pfizer enables and facilitates, and 
does not hinder or prevent, Mylan and Upjohn from complying with the 
Mylan/Upjohn Undertaking.  
Divestment of Divestiture Business to Aspen 
61. The ACCC has approved AGI as the purchaser of the Divestiture Business. 
Aspen Pharmacare Australia Pty Ltd (Aspen Australia) is a 100% owned 
subsidiary of AGI. Aspen Australia will distribute the products in Australia under 
a distribution agreement between Aspen Australia and AGI.  
62. Aspen Australia is currently the third largest pharmaceutical supplier by volume 
in Australia. Aspen Australia has significant experience marketing off-patent 
branded pharmaceutical products in Australia, and provided evidence that 
demonstrated its intention to become an effective long-term competitor in the 
supply of these active ingredients.  
63. There is no overlap between the brands to be divested and any of the products 
currently marketed by Aspen Australia in Australia either at the molecular active 
ingredient level or at the therapeutic class level.  
Conclusion 
64. Based on the above analysis, the ACCC considers that the proposed 
combination of Mylan and Upjohn, taking into account the Undertakings, would 
not be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in any 
relevant market in Australia. 
