 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Undertaking to the Australian 
Competition and Consumer 
Commission 
 
 
 
Given under section 87B of the Competition and 
Consumer Act 2010 (Cth) by Pfizer Inc. and 
Pfizer Australia Pty Ltd ACN 008 422 348  
 
 


 
 
 
Contents 
 
1. 
Person giving the Undertaking ........................................................................... 1 
2. 
Background .......................................................................................................... 1 
3. 
Commencement of this Undertaking ................................................................. 3 
4. 
Cessation of Ongoing Obligations ..................................................................... 4 
5. 
Obligations with respect to disposal of the Divestiture Business ................. 4 
6. 
Divestiture Business Protection ........................................................................ 4 
7. 
Notification of key dates and ACCC requests for information........................ 6 
8. 
Disclosure of this Undertaking ........................................................................... 6 
9. 
Obligation to procure .......................................................................................... 6 
10. 
No Derogation ...................................................................................................... 6 
11. 
Change of Control ................................................................................................ 7 
13. 
Notices .................................................................................................................. 7 
14. 
Jurisdiction ........................................................................................................... 8 
15. 
Defined terms and interpretation ....................................................................... 8 
Schedule 1 – Dictionary and interpretation.................................................................. 12 
Schedule 2 – Divestiture Business ............................................................................... 16 
Schedule 3 ....................................................................................................................... 20 
 


 
1 
 
1. 
Person giving the Undertaking 
1.1. 
This Undertaking is given to the Australian Competition and Consumer 
Commission (ACCC) by Pfizer Inc. and Pfizer Australia Pty Ltd ACN 008 422 348 
(together referred to as Pfizer in this Undertaking).  
2. 
Background   
The parties to the Proposed Transaction 
2.1. 
Mylan N.V. (Mylan) is incorporated under the laws of the Netherlands, is publicly 
traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market and is a global pharmaceutical 
company that develops, manufactures, markets and sells generic and branded 
products, biosimilar medicines and over-the-counter (OTC) remedies. Mylan runs 
its Australian operations through Alphapharm Pty Ltd, trading as Mylan Australia, 
which is a wholly owned subsidiary of Mylan. Together Mylan and Alphapharm 
Pty Ltd are referred to as the Mylan Parties in this Undertaking.  
2.2. 
In Australia, Mylan supplies a portfolio of approximately 350 generic 
pharmaceutical drugs and over 450 branded, biosimilar medicines and OTC 
remedies to pharmacies and hospitals. 
2.3. 
Pfizer Inc. is a global pharmaceutical company that develops, manufactures, 
markets and sells prescription medicines and OTC products. Pfizer Inc.’s Upjohn 
business manufactures and supplies branded and generic off-patent medicines 
(Upjohn Business). The Upjohn Business conducts its Australian operations 
through Upjohn Australia Pty Ltd (Upjohn Australia). Until closing of the 
transaction, Upjohn Inc. (Upjohn) is a wholly-owned and solely controlled 
subsidiary of Pfizer Inc., which will hold and operate the Upjohn Business after its 
separation from Pfizer Inc. as described below. Together Upjohn and Upjohn 
Australia Pty Ltd are referred to as the Upjohn Parties in this Undertaking. 
2.4. 
Upjohn supplies off-patent pharmaceutical products, 18 of which are sold in 
Australia through Upjohn Australia.  
The Proposed Transaction 
2.5. 
On 29 July 2019, Mylan and Pfizer Inc. entered into a transaction, which involves 
the separation of Upjohn from Pfizer Inc. through a spin-off and its combination 
with Mylan. Upon closing of the transaction, Upjohn will hold the combined Mylan 
and Upjohn businesses and will be the ultimate parent entity of the combined 
group of Mylan and Upjohn entities, including the Mylan Parties and Upjohn 
Australia. Upjohn will be renamed “Viatris” at the closing of the transaction (the 
Proposed Transaction). Upon completion of the Proposed Transaction, current 
Mylan shareholders will hold 43%, and current Pfizer shareholders 57%, of 
Viatris. No shareholder will have sole or joint control over the merged company, 
and Pfizer Inc. will have no equity interest in Viatris upon completion of the 
Proposed Transaction. 
The ACCC’s review 
2.6. 
On 24 March 2020, the ACCC commenced its public review of the Proposed 
Transaction. 
2.7. 
The ACCC undertook market inquiries and considered information provided by 
the parties to the Proposed Transaction, industry participants and others. The 
purpose of the ACCC’s inquiries was to assess whether the Proposed 
Transaction would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of substantially 


 
2 
 
lessening competition in any market in Australia in contravention of section 50 of 
the Act. 
The ACCC’s competition concerns 
2.8. 
The ACCC is concerned that, in the absence of the Mylan/Upjohn Undertaking, 
the Proposed Transaction would have the effect, or would be likely to have the 
effect, of substantially lessening competition for the supply of pharmaceutical 
products based on: 
(a) the molecule Latanoprost; 
(b) the combination of the molecules Latanoprost/Timolol; and  
(c) 
the combination of the molecules Amlodipine/Atorvastatin 
to (i) pharmacies and (ii) hospitals in Australia (each a Relevant Market and 
together Relevant Markets). 
2.9. 
For the supply of pharmaceutical products based on the combination of the 
molecules Latanoprost/Timolol, and Amlodipine/Atorvastatin, the merger parties 
are the only suppliers of the combination molecules. The Proposed Transaction 
removes the sole competitive constraint on the parties’ price and service 
decisions in relation to the supply of these molecules.  
2.10. 
In relation to the supply of Amlodipine/Atorvastatin, the ACCC considered that 
pharmaceutical products based on the constituent Amlodipine and Atorvastatin 
molecules did not meaningfully compete for demand for the combination 
Amlodipine/Atorvastatin molecule. Despite being available in equivalent dosages, 
the ACCC’s market inquiries found that the combination molecule is prescribed to 
patients who require pharmaceutical products based on both molecules to 
improve patient compliance and reduce cost to patient (patients would pay double 
the dispensing fee for the constituent molecules) such that the individual 
constituent molecules were not substitutable.   
2.11. 
For pharmaceutical products based on the molecule Latanoprost, the ACCC 
considered that post transaction, the remaining competitor, with a minimal market 
share, would not provide a sufficient competitive constraint on the merged 
entities’ price and service decisions. 
2.12. 
The ACCC considered that the Proposed Transaction was unlikely to give rise to 
competition concerns for the supply of the remaining overlap molecules1 to 
pharmacies or hospitals in Australia. 
The Mylan/Upjohn Undertaking remedy 
2.13. 
The Mylan Parties and Upjohn Parties do not consider that the Proposed 
Transaction would have been likely to give rise to any substantial lessening of 
competition. However, to address the ACCC’s competition concerns, the Mylan 
Parties and Upjohn Parties have offered the Mylan/Upjohn Undertaking pursuant 
to section 87B of the Act. 
2.14. 
The objective of the Mylan/Upjohn Undertaking is to address the ACCC’s 
competition concerns, as set out above, that would otherwise arise because of 
the Proposed Transaction. The Mylan/Upjohn Undertaking aims to achieve this 
objective by placing obligations on the Mylan Parties and Upjohn Parties:  
 
1 Amlodipine, Atorvastatin, Celecoxib, Eplerenone, Gabapentin, Pregabalin, Sertraline, Sildenafil and 
Venlafaxine. 


 
3 
 
(a) to ensure that the Divestiture Business is sold to an Approved Purchaser 
that will result in the creation or strengthening of a viable, effective, stand-
alone, independent and long term competitor in each of the Relevant 
Markets; 
(b) to ensure the purchaser of the Divestiture Business has all the necessary 
associated assets and rights to compete effectively with the Mylan Parties 
and Upjohn Parties in the supply of each of the Divestiture Brands in 
Australia; 
(c) 
to maintain the economic viability, marketability, competitiveness and 
goodwill of the Divestiture Business prior to divestiture; and   
(d) to provide for the effective oversight of the Mylan Parties and Upjohn 
Parties’ compliance with the Mylan/Upjohn Undertaking. 
The Pfizer Undertaking remedy 
2.15. 
Pfizer’s consent is needed in order for the Mylan Parties and Upjohn Parties to 
transfer or license certain intellectual property rights, Manufacturing Technology 
and Scientific and Regulatory Materials to the Approved Purchaser.  
2.16. 
The objective of this Undertaking is to support the operation of the Mylan/Upjohn 
Undertaking, by ensuring that Pfizer enables and facilitates, and does not hinder 
or prevent the Mylan Parties and Upjohn Parties complying with the 
Mylan/Upjohn Undertaking. This Undertaking achieves this objective by placing 
obligations on Pfizer to: 
(a) promptly facilitate, and not unreasonably withhold any required consents, to 
the disposal of the Divestiture Business to an Approved Purchaser pursuant 
to the Mylan/Upjohn Undertaking;  
(b) maintain the economic viability, marketability, competitiveness and goodwill 
of the Divestiture Business prior to completion of the Proposed Transaction; 
and  
(c) 
provide, or cause to be provided, to the Mylan Parties and Upjohn Parties 
the same transitional services that would have been provided to the Mylan 
Parties and Upjohn Parties, notwithstanding that such Divestiture Business 
will have been divested to the applicable Approved Purchaser.  
2.17. 
Pfizer does not consider that the Proposed Transaction would have the effect, or 
be likely to have the effect, of substantially lessening competition in any relevant 
market. Pfizer also does not consider that there is any risk it would not provide its 
consent to the transfer of rights and obligations to an Approved Purchaser that 
are otherwise held by Upjohn in relation to the Divestiture Business. However, to 
assist with addressing the ACCC's competition concerns, Pfizer has offered this 
undertaking pursuant to section 87B of the Act (Pfizer Undertaking).  
3. 
Commencement of this Undertaking 
3.1. 
This Undertaking comes into effect when: 
(a) the Mylan/Upjohn Undertaking is executed by the Mylan Parties and the 
Upjohn Parties;  
(b) the Pfizer Undertaking is executed by Pfizer; and 


 
4 
 
(c) 
the Mylan/Upjohn Undertaking and the Pfizer Undertaking so executed are 
accepted by the ACCC, 
(the Commencement Date). 
4. 
Cessation of Ongoing Obligations 
Withdrawal 
4.1. 
Pfizer may request withdrawal of the Pfizer Undertaking pursuant to section 87B 
of the Act at any time. The Pfizer Undertaking is taken to be withdrawn on the 
date the ACCC consents in writing to that withdrawal. 
Revocation 
4.2. 
The ACCC may, at any time, revoke its acceptance of the Pfizer Undertaking if 
the ACCC becomes aware that any information provided to it was incorrect, 
inaccurate or misleading.  
Waiver 
4.3. 
The ACCC may, at any time, expressly waive in writing any of the obligations 
contained in the Pfizer Undertaking or extend the date by which any such 
obligation is to be satisfied. 
Survival 
4.4. 
Unless and until this Undertaking is withdrawn in accordance with clause 4.1, 
clauses 1, 2, 3, 4, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, and 15 survive completion of the 
obligations in clauses 5 and 6. 
5. 
Obligations with respect to disposal of the Divestiture 
Business 
5.1. 
Pfizer must co-operate with the Mylan Parties and Upjohn Parties in relation to 
the disposal (whether by way of consent, assignment, novation or any other 
means) of all of the Mylan Parties' and Upjohn Parties' rights, and obligations, in 
relation to the Divestiture Business to any Approved Purchaser in order to 
complete the divestment required by the Mylan/Upjohn Undertaking.  
5.2. 
Without limiting the operation of clause 5.1, Pfizer will not unreasonably withhold 
any consent to the transfer of rights and obligations under any Agreement in 
relation to the Divestiture Businesses, being consent necessary or convenient for 
the timely completion of the divestiture required by the Mylan/Upjohn 
Undertaking. 
5.3. 
For the term of the Transition Services Agreement, Pfizer will provide, or cause to 
be provided, to the Mylan Parties and the Upjohn Parties the Pharmacovigilance 
Services related to the Divestiture Business in accordance with the Transition 
Services Agreement, notwithstanding that such Divestiture Business will have 
been divested to the applicable Approved Purchaser. 
6. 
Divestiture Business Protection   
Protection of the Divestiture Business 


 
5 
 
6.1. 
From the Commencement Date until the Control Date, Pfizer must not sell or 
transfer its interest, or any assets comprising part of, or used in, the Divestiture 
Business (other than the sale of goods and services in the ordinary course of 
business) or make any Material Change, except in accordance with the Pfizer 
Undertaking or (subject to the other terms of the Pfizer Undertaking) as required 
to allow completion of the Proposed Transaction.   
Pfizer's obligations in relation to the Divestiture Business prior to completion of 
divestiture 
6.2. 
Without limiting this clause 6, Pfizer must, from the Commencement Date until 
the Control Date, take all steps available to it to:  
(a) ensure that the Divestiture Business is managed and operated in the 
ordinary course of business as a fully operational, competitive going concern 
and in such a way that preserves the economic viability, marketability, 
competitiveness and goodwill of the Divestiture Business at the 
Commencement Date; 
(b) continue to provide access to working capital and sources of credit for the 
Divestiture Business in a manner which is consistent with the financing of 
the Divestiture Business before the Commencement Date;  
(c) 
continue to provide administrative and technical support for the Divestiture 
Business in a manner which is consistent with the operation of the 
Divestiture Business before the Commencement Date and in accordance 
with any plans established before the Commencement Date; 
(d) continue existing Agreements relating to the Divestiture Business with 
customers, suppliers and/or other third parties that are in place at the 
Commencement Date; 
(e) renew or replace upon expiry Material Contracts for the provision of goods 
or services to the Divestiture Business on commercial terms favourable to 
the Divestiture Business; 
(f) 
maintain the supply of those goods and services that are part of the 
Divestiture Business to existing customers in a manner consistent with the 
supply of those goods and services as at the Commencement Date; 
(g) maintain the standard of manufacture, distribution, promotion and sale of 
those products which form part of the Divestiture Business as at the 
Commencement Date; and 
(h) carry out promotion and marketing of the products which form part of the 
Divestiture Business in accordance with any plans established before the 
Commencement Date.  
Personnel of Pfizer 
6.3. 
If the Approved Purchaser elects, from the Commencement Date until the Control 
Date, Pfizer must not directly or indirectly procure, promote or encourage the 
redeployment of personnel necessary for the operation of the Divestiture 
Business as at the Commencement Date to any other business operated by 
Pfizer.  
6.4. 
As soon as practicable after the Commencement Date, Pfizer must direct its 
personnel, including directors, contractors, managers, officers, employees and 


 
6 
 
agents not to do anything inconsistent with Pfizer's obligations under this 
Undertaking. 
7. 
Notification of key dates and ACCC requests for information
 
 
7.1. 
Pfizer must notify the ACCC in writing of Pfizer's response to any request for it to 
provide its consent to any disposal of rights and obligations in relation to the 
Divestiture Businesses to an Approved Purchaser within five Business Days of 
Pfizer's response. 
7.2. 
The ACCC may direct Pfizer in respect of its compliance with this Undertaking to, 
and Pfizer must: 
(a) furnish information to the ACCC in the time and in the form requested by the 
ACCC; 
(b) produce documents and materials to the ACCC within Pfizer's custody, 
power or control in the time and in the form requested by the ACCC; and/or 
(c) 
attend the ACCC at a time and place appointed by the ACCC to answer any 
questions the ACCC (its Commissioners, its staff or its agents) may have. 
7.3. 
Any direction made by the ACCC under clause 7.2 will be notified to Pfizer, in 
accordance with clause 13.2. 
7.4. 
Information furnished, documents and material produced or information given in 
response to any request or direction from the ACCC under this clause 7 may be 
used by the ACCC for any purpose consistent with the exercise of its statutory 
duties. 
7.5. 
Nothing in this clause 7 requires the provision of information or documents in 
respect of which Pfizer has a claim of legal professional or other privilege. 
 
8. 
Disclosure of this Undertaking 
8.1. 
Pfizer acknowledges that the ACCC may: 
(a) make the Pfizer Undertaking publicly available;  
(b) publish the Pfizer Undertaking on its Public Section 87B Undertakings 
Register and Public Mergers Register; and 
(c) 
from time to time publicly refer to the Pfizer Undertaking. 
9. 
Obligation to procure 
9.1. 
Where the performance of an obligation under this Undertaking requires a 
Related Body Corporate of Pfizer to take or refrain from taking some action, 
Pfizer will procure that Related Body Corporate to take or refrain from taking that 
action.   
10. 
No Derogation 


 
7 
 
10.1. 
The Pfizer Undertaking does not prevent the ACCC from taking enforcement 
action at any time whether during or after the period of this Undertaking in respect 
of any breach by Pfizer of any term of this Undertaking. 
10.2. 
Nothing in the Pfizer Undertaking is intended to restrict the right of the ACCC to 
take action under the Act for penalties or other remedies in the event that Pfizer 
does not fully implement and/or perform its obligations under this Undertaking or 
in any other event where the ACCC decides to take action under the Act for 
penalties or other remedies. 
 
11. 
Change of Control  
11.1. 
In the event that a Change of Control is reasonably expected to occur, Pfizer 
must:  
(a) notify the ACCC of this expectation as soon as practicable; and 
(b) only implement a Change of Control to another person or entity if that 
person or entity has given a section 87B undertaking to the ACCC that 
requires it to comply with the same obligations as are imposed on Pfizer 
pursuant to this Undertaking, or on terms that are otherwise acceptable to 
the ACCC, unless the ACCC has notified Pfizer in writing that a section 87B 
undertaking under this clause is not required. 
12. 
Costs 
12.1. 
Pfizer must pay all of its own costs incurred in relation to the Pfizer Undertaking. 
 
13. 
Notices 
Giving Notices 
13.1. 
Any notice or communication to the ACCC pursuant to the Pfizer Undertaking 
must be sent to: 
Email address:  
mergers@accc.gov.au  
 
Attention: Executive General Manager 
 
Merger and Authorisation Review Division 
With a copy sent to: 
mergersru@accc.gov.au 
 
Attention: Director, Remedies Unit 
 
Coordination and Strategy Branch 
 
Merger and Authorisation Review Division 
13.2. 
Any notice or communication to Pfizer pursuant to the Pfizer Undertaking must be 
sent to:  
Name:   
Allens 
Address:  
Level 28, Deutsche Bank Place, 126 Phillip Street, Sydney NSW 
2000 
 
Email Address:  Fiona.Crosbie@allens.com.au  
Attention: 
Fiona Crosbie, Chairman  


 
8 
 
13.3. 
If sent by post, notices are taken to be received three Business Days after 
posting (or seven Business Days after posting if sent to or from a place outside 
Australia). 
13.4. 
If sent by email, notices are taken to be received at the time shown in the email 
as the time the email was sent.  
 
Change of contact details 
13.5. 
Pfizer must notify the ACCC of a change to its contact details within three 
Business Days.   
13.6. 
Any notice or communication will be sent to the most recently advised contact 
details and subject to clauses 13.3 and 13.4, will be taken to be received.  
14. 
Jurisdiction  
14.1. 
Pfizer irrevocably submits to the jurisdiction of the Federal Court of Australia in 
relation to the Pfizer Undertaking. 
14.2. 
Unless and until notified in writing by Pfizer to the ACCC of the appointment of 
another person as agent within Australia, Pfizer appoints the person, with 
particulars as set out in this clause 14, as their agent for the purposes of service 
of process in relation to this Undertaking. 
14.3. 
Pfizer appoints the following person for the purpose of this clause 14: 
Fiona Crosbie 
Chairman at Allens 
Level 28, Deutsche Bank Place 
126 Phillip Street, Sydney NSW 2000 
Telephone number: +61 2 9230 4383 
Email address: Fiona.Crosbie@allens.com.au 
15. 
Defined terms and interpretation  
Definitions in the Dictionary 
15.1. 
 A term or expression starting with a capital letter: 
(a) which is defined in the Dictionary in Part 1 of Schedule 1 (Dictionary), has 
the meaning given to it in the Dictionary; or 
(b) which is defined in the Corporations Act, but is not defined in the Dictionary, 
has the meaning given to it in the Corporations Act. 
Interpretation 
15.2. 
Part 2 of Schedule 1 sets out rules of interpretation for this Undertaking. 


 
11 
 
Accepted by the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission pursuant 
to section 87B of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth) on: 
 
 
Date 
 
and signed on behalf of the Commission: 
 
 
 
Chair 
 
 
 
Date 
  
 
9 September 2020
9 September 2020


 
12 
 
Schedule 1 – Dictionary and interpretation  
1. 
Dictionary 
ACCC means the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission. 
Act means the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth). 
Agreement means any contract, arrangement or understanding, including any contract, 
arrangement or understanding to renew, amend, vary or extend any contract, 
arrangement or understanding.  
Approved Purchaser means the person approved by the ACCC under clause 6 the 
Mylan/Upjohn Undertaking. 
Business Day means a day other than a Saturday or Sunday on which banks are open 
for business generally in the Australian Capital Territory.  
Change of Control means: 
a) the assignment or other transfer of the legal or beneficial ownership of some or 
all of the share capital of Pfizer to any other person or entity that may impact 
compliance with this Undertaking in its entirety; or 
b) the sale or transfer of any assets necessary, or which may be necessary, to 
enable Pfizer to continue to comply with this Undertaking in its entirety. 
Commencement Date means the date described in clause 3.1 of this Undertaking. 
Control Date means the date on which the Proposed Transaction is completed.  
Corporations Act means the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth). 
Divestiture Brands means the following Upjohn brands: 
a) Caduet, based on the combination of the molecules atorvastatin and amlodipine; 
b) Xalatan, based on the molecule latanoprost; and  
c) Xalacom, based on the combination of the molecules latanoprost and timolol.   
Divestiture Business means the items described in Schedule 2 to this Undertaking. 
Manufacturing Technology means all technology, trade secrets, know-how and 
proprietary information that is necessary to manufacture the Divestiture Brands, including 
processes, specifications, test methods, instructions, master formulas, validation reports, 
stability data, analytical methods, records of complaints and annual product reviews, 
owned by and in the possession or control of the Mylan Parties, the Upjohn Parties or 
Pfizer.   
Material Change means any change to the structure, attributes, extent or operations of 
the Divestiture Business or product or service sold by a Divestiture Business that may 
affect, or impact on, the competitiveness of the Divestiture Business. 
Material Contracts means any Agreement that is necessary for the operation of the 
Divestiture Business.  
Mylan means the entity referred to in clause 2.1 of this Undertaking.  
Mylan Parties means the entities referred to in clause 2.1 of this Undertaking. 


 
13 
 
Mylan/Upjohn Undertaking means the undertaking provided to the ACCC by the Mylan 
Parties and the Upjohn Parties, pursuant to s 87B of the Act. 
Pfizer means the entities referred to in clause 1.1 of this Undertaking.  
Pfizer Australia means the entity referred to in clause 1.1 of this Undertaking. 
Pharmacovigilance Services means the services identified in Exhibit A to the Transition 
Services Agreement as part of the 'Compliance – Medical Quality Assurance', 'Science, 
Medicine & Manufacturing Compliance' or 'Clinical, Laboratory and Pharmacovigilance 
Oversight' functions. 
Proposed Transaction is defined in clause 2.5 of this Undertaking. 
Public Mergers Register means the ACCC’s public register of merger clearances, 
available at www.accc.gov.au.   
Public Section 87B Undertakings Register means the ACCC’s public register of 
section 87B undertakings, available at www.accc.gov.au.  
Related Bodies Corporate has the meaning given to it by section 50 of the Corporations 
Act 2001 (Cth). 
Relevant Market has the meaning given in clause 2.8 of this Undertaking.  
Scientific and Regulatory Materials means technological, scientific, chemical, 
biological, pharmacological, toxicological, regulatory and clinical trial material and 
information (including adverse drug experience information) owned by and in the 
possession or control of the Mylan Parties, Upjohn Parties or Pfizer, relating to the 
Divestiture Business.   
Transition Services Agreement means the agreement of the same name between 
Pfizer Inc. and Upjohn Inc. dated on or around the Control Date. 
Undertaking or Pfizer Undertaking is a reference to all provisions of this document, 
including its schedules and as varied from time to time under section 87B of the Act. 
Upjohn means the entity referred to in clause 2.3 of this Undertaking.  
Upjohn Australia means the entity referred to in clause 2.3 of this Undertaking.  
Upjohn Business has the meaning given to it by clause 2.3 of this Undertaking.  
Upjohn Parties means the entities referred to in clause 2.3 of this Undertaking. 
Viatris means the entity referred to in clause 2.5 of this Undertaking.  
 
2. 
Interpretation 
2.1 
In the interpretation of this Undertaking, the following provisions apply unless the 
context otherwise requires: 
(a) a reference to this Undertaking includes all of the provisions of this document 
including its schedules; 


 
14 
 
(b) headings are inserted for convenience only and do not affect the 
interpretation of this Undertaking;  
(c) if the day on which any act, matter or thing is to be done under this 
Undertaking is not a Business Day, the act, matter or thing must be done on 
the next Business Day;  
(d) a reference in this Undertaking to any law, legislation or legislative provision 
includes any statutory modification, amendment or re-enactment, and any 
subordinate legislation or regulations issued under that legislation or 
legislative provision;  
(e) a reference in this Undertaking to any company includes its Related Bodies 
Corporate; 
(f) a reference in this Undertaking to any agreement or document is to that 
agreement or document as amended, novated, supplemented or replaced; 
(g) a reference to a clause, part, schedule or attachment is a reference to a 
clause, part, schedule or attachment of or to this Undertaking; 
(h) an expression importing a natural person includes any company, trust, 
partnership, joint venture, association, body corporate or governmental 
agency; 
(i) where a word or phrase is given a defined meaning, another part of speech 
or other grammatical form in respect of that word or phrase has a 
corresponding meaning; 
(j) a word which denotes the singular also denotes the plural, a word which 
denotes the plural also denotes the singular, and a reference to any gender 
also denotes the other genders; 
(k) a reference to the words 'such as', 'including', 'particularly' and similar 
expressions is to be construed without limitation; 
(l) a construction that would promote the purpose - or object - underlying the 
Undertaking (whether expressly stated or not) will be preferred to a 
construction that would not promote that purpose or object; 
(m) material not forming part of this Undertaking may be considered to: 
(i) confirm the meaning of a clause is the ordinary meaning conveyed by 
the text of the clause, taking into account its context in the Undertaking 
and the competition concerns intended to be addressed by the 
Undertaking and the clause in question; or 
(ii) determine the meaning of the clause when the ordinary meaning 
conveyed by the text of the clause, taking into account its context in the 
Undertaking and the purpose or object underlying the Undertaking, leads 
to a result that does not promote the purpose or object underlying the 
Undertaking; 
(n) in determining whether consideration should be given to any material in 
accordance with paragraph (m), or in considering any weight to be given to 
any such material, regard must be had, in addition to any other relevant 
matters, to the: 


 
15 
 
(i) effect that reliance on the ordinary meaning conveyed by the text of the 
clause would, have (taking into account its context in the Undertaking 
and whether that meaning promotes the purpose or object of the 
Undertaking); and 
(ii) need to ensure that the result of the Undertaking is to completely 
address any ACCC competition concerns; 
(o) the ACCC may authorise the ACCC Mergers Review Committee, a member 
of the ACCC or a member of the ACCC staff, to exercise a decision making 
function under this Undertaking on its behalf and that authorisation may be 
subject to any conditions which the ACCC may impose; 
(p) in performing its obligations under this Undertaking, Pfizer will do everything 
reasonably within its power to ensure that its performance of those 
obligations is done in a manner which is consistent with promoting the 
purpose and object of this Undertaking; 
(q) a reference to: 
(i) a thing (including, but not limited to, a chose in action or other right) 
includes a part of that thing; 
(ii) a party includes its successors and permitted assigns; and 
(iii) a monetary amount is in Australian dollars. 
 
 


 
16 
 
Schedule 2 – Divestiture Business 
 
 
Divestiture 
Business 
The Divestiture Business comprises the Divestiture Brands in 
Australia as set out in the table below, and as accompanied by 
the assets, licences, agreements and other tangible and 
intangible property listed in this Schedule 2, to the extent 
required to facilitate the operation of the Divestiture Business in 
Australia.  
Product 
Molecule 
Caduet 
amlodipine / atorvastatin  
Xalatan 
latanoprost 
Xalacom 
latanoprost / timolol 
Intellectual 
Property 
Australian Trademarks 
The Australian trademarks listed in the table below will be 
transferred to the Approved Purchaser.   
Trademark 
Trademark Number 
Caduet 
888755 
Opovasc 
887325 
Cadatin 
1427986 
Latanocom 
1397814 
S.T.A.R. II 
1348903 
Xalatan 
623072 
Xalacom 
868757 
Xalasite 
1402453  
Xalatim 
1402454 
Australian Patent 
The Australian patent listed in the table below will be transferred 
to the Approved Purchaser. 
Patent name 
Patent serial 
number 
Expiry date 
Therapeutic 
combinations 
comprising 
amlodipine and 
atorvastatin 
755636 
20 July 2020 


 
17 
 
Licensed intellectual property rights 
The Approved Purchaser will be granted a limited transitional, 
non-exclusive, non-transferable, sub-licence under Pfizer’s 
trademark and trade dress rights to use the Pfizer name and logo 
solely for the sale of inventory and to the extent required in order 
to comply with applicable regulatory requirements:  
 
as printed or embossed on the tablets of Caduet;  
 
as printed on the packaging for the Divestiture Brands; 
and 
 
included on advertising, sales, marketing and promotional 
materials. 
Domain names 
The following domain names will be transferred to the Approved 
Purchaser: 
 
caduet.com.au; and 
 
xalatan.com.au. 
The books, records and files relating to the prosecution and 
maintenance of the Australian trademarks and patents and 
domain names referred to above. 
Manufacturing Technology 
Any Manufacturing Technology that is solely related to the 
Divestiture Brands in Australia will be transferred to the 
Approved Purchaser.  
Any Manufacturing Technology that is not transferred to the 
Approved Purchaser but which is necessary to manufacture and 
supply the Divestiture Brands in Australia will be licensed to the 
Approved Purchaser on a non-exclusive, limited basis solely for 
use to manufacture the Divestiture Brands either inside or 
outside of Australia but only for supply in Australia. For the 
avoidance of doubt, the Approved Purchaser shall be permitted 
to manufacture the Divestiture Brands outside Australia, solely 
for commercialisation within Australia.  
Government 
licenses, permits 
and authorisations 
ARTG registrations 
The marketing authorisations for the Divestiture Brands 
registered on the Australian Register of Therapeutic Goods listed 
in Schedule 3 will be transferred to the Approved Purchaser.  
Permits 
All permits, licences, consents, planning permissions, product 
registrations, certifications or authorisations issued by a 


 
18 
 
government agency or regulatory authority and related 
documentation only to the extent they are not listed in Schedule 
3 and only in so far as they are required to facilitate the operation 
of, the Divestiture Business in Australia. 
Correspondence 
All reports filed with and submissions to, and all other written 
correspondence with, any regulatory authority owned by and in 
the possession or control of the Mylan Parties and Upjohn 
Parties as at the date of completion of the divestiture which are 
primarily related to, or required to facilitate the operation of, the 
Divestiture Business in Australia. 
Data, books and 
records 
Scientific and Regulatory Materials 
Any Scientific and Regulatory Materials that are solely related to 
the Divestiture Business in Australia will be transferred to the 
Approved Purchaser.  
Any Scientific and Regulatory Materials that are not transferred 
to the Approved Purchaser but which are necessary to 
manufacture and supply products included in the Divestiture 
Business in Australia will be licensed to the Approved Purchaser 
on a non-exclusive, limited basis solely for use to manufacture 
the Divestiture Brands either inside or outside of Australia but 
only to commercialise in Australia.  
Customer records 
All records of customers (current and historical), price lists, 
catalogues and mailing lists which are solely related to the 
Divestiture Business in Australia and are necessary to operate 
the Divestiture Business will be transferred to the Approved 
Purchaser. 
Any records of customers, price lists, catalogues and mailing lists 
that are not transferred to the Approved Purchaser but which are 
necessary to operate the Divestiture Business in Australia will be 
licensed to the Approved Purchaser (provided that the Mylan 
Parties and Upjohn Parties may redact from such copies any 
information that does not relate to the Divestiture Business in 
Australia) on a non-exclusive, limited basis solely for use to 
operate the Divestiture Business in Australia.  
Tangible property 
Inventory of the Divestiture Brands in Australia that exists as at 
the date of completion of the divestiture and is not already sold to 
a third party will be transferred to the Approved Purchaser. 
Any advertising, sales, marketing and promotional materials 
which are necessary for the operation of the Divestiture Business 
in Australia will be transferred to the Approved Purchaser. 
Relevant 
contractual rights 
At the option of the Approved Purchaser, any contracts, sales 
orders, purchase orders, instruments and other commitments, 
obligations and arrangements to the extent solely related to, or 
otherwise strictly to the extent required to facilitate the operation 


 
19 
 
of, the Divestiture Business in Australia.  
Consents from third party manufacturers or suppliers 
At the option of the Approved Purchaser, any consents to 
transfer or assign licences, agreements or deeds with third-party 
manufacturers or suppliers to the extent solely related to, or 
otherwise strictly to the extent required to facilitate the operation 
of, the Divestiture Business.  
Licence agreements with third parties 
At the option of the Approved Purchaser, any consents to 
transfer or assign, or, where appropriate, any agreement to 
novate or a new agreement to replace (in each case in whole or 
in part), licences, agreements, term sheets, letter amendments 
or deeds with third parties to the extent solely related to, or 
otherwise strictly to the extent required to facilitate the operation 
of, the Divestiture Business in Australia. 
Other 
At the option of the Approved Purchaser, the ARTG registration 
120066 and Australian Trademark number 908254 for the XAL-
EASE dropper, which is used in the application of the products 
Xalatan and Xalacom, will be transferred to the Approved 
Purchaser. 


 
20 
 
Schedule 3 
 
 
The table below lists the marketing authorisations for the Divestiture Brands registered 
on the Australian Register of Therapeutic Goods.   
 
Trade name 
Product details 
Australian 
sponsor 
TGA product 
registration number 
Caduet 
10/80 amlodipine (as besilate) 
and atorvastatin (as calcium) 
10mg/80mg tablet blister pack 
Upjohn Australia 
Pty Ltd 
100703 
Caduet 
10/40 amlodipine (as besilate) 
and atorvastatin (as calcium) 
10mg/40mg tablet blister pack 
Upjohn Australia 
Pty Ltd 
100702 
Caduet 
10/20 amlodipine (as besilate) 
and atorvastatin (as calcium) 
10mg/20mg tablet blister pack 
Upjohn Australia 
Pty Ltd 
100701 
Caduet 
10/10 amlodipine (as besilate) 
and atorvastatin (as calcium) 
10mg/10mg tablet blister pack 
Upjohn Australia 
Pty Ltd 
100700 
Caduet 
5/80 amlodipine (as besilate) and 
atorvastatin (as calcium) 
5mg/80mg tablet blister pack 
Upjohn Australia 
Pty Ltd 
100698 
Caduet 
5/40 amlodipine (as besilate) and 
atorvastatin (as calcium) 
5mg/40mg tablet blister pack 
Upjohn Australia 
Pty Ltd 
100697 
Caduet 
5/20 amlodipine (as besilate) and 
atorvastatin (as calcium) 
5mg/20mg tablet blister pack 
Upjohn Australia 
Pty Ltd 
100696 
Caduet 
5/10 amlodipine (as besilate) and 
atorvastatin (as calcium) 
5mg/10mg tablet blister pack 
Upjohn Australia 
Pty Ltd 
100695 
Xalatan 
Latanoprost 50 microgram/mL 
eye drops bottle 
Upjohn Australia 
Pty Ltd 
58775 
Xalacom 
Latanoprost 50 microgram/mL, 
timolol (as maleate) 5 mg/mL eye 
drops - solution bottle 
Upjohn Australia 
Pty Ltd 
80311 
Hysite 
Latanoprost 50 microgram/mL 
eye drops bottle 
Upjohn Australia 
Pty Ltd 
189694 
Latanoprost 
Pfizer RT 
Latanoprost 50 microgram/mL 
eye drops bottle 
Upjohn Australia 
Pty Ltd 
194174 
Latanocom 
Latanoprost 50 microgram/mL, 
timolol (as maleate) 5 mg/mL eye 
drops - solution bottle 
Upjohn Australia 
Pty Ltd 
183346 
 
 
