 
Page 1 of 13 
 
Statement of Issues 
 11 July 2024 
 Aurizon Operations Limited’s proposed acquisition of 
Flinders Logistics Pty Ltd 
Purpose 
1. 
Aurizon Operations Limited (Aurizon) proposes to acquire Flinders Logistics Pty 
Ltd (Flinders Logistics) and its wholly owned subsidiary Pirie Bulk Pty Ltd 
(Pirie Bulk) (the proposed acquisition).  
2. 
This Statement of Issues: 
• 
gives the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission’s (ACCC) 
preliminary views on competition issues arising from the proposed 
acquisition 
• 
identifies areas of further inquiry 
• 
invites interested parties to submit comments and information to assist our 
assessment of the issues. 
3. 
Statements of Issues do not refer to confidential information provided by the 
parties or other market participants and therefore may not fully articulate the 
ACCC’s preliminary position. 
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views 
4. 
In considering the proposed acquisition, the ACCC applies the legal test set out 
in section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the CCA). In general 
terms, section 50 prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to 
have the effect, of substantially lessening competition in any market. 
5. 
The ACCC divides its preliminary views into three categories, ‘issues of 
concern’, ‘issues that may raise concerns’ and ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’. 
In this Statement of Issues there is one ‘issue of concern’ and one ‘issue that 
may raise concerns’. 


Aurizon Operations Limited - proposed acquisition of Flinders Logistics Pty Ltd 
 
Page 2 of 13 
Issue of concern 
6. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is likely to provide 
Aurizon with the ability and incentive to foreclose or frustrate competitors in the 
supply of rail haulage services for containerised bulk minerals, substantially 
lessening competition in the supply of such services for customers in South 
Australia and north-western New South Wales/Victoria.  
7. 
The proposed acquisition would increase vertical integration by combining the 
largest rail haulage operator with Flinders Logistics, which provides stevedoring 
and port logistics services for containerised bulk mineral products at Berth 29, 
Port Adelaide. Market feedback indicates there are no substitutes to Berth 29 for 
the import and export of containerised bulk mineral products and road is not a 
close substitute for the haulage of these products for some customers, 
particularly with large volumes over long distances.  
Issue that may raise concerns 
8. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition may provide 
Aurizon with the ability and incentive to foreclose or frustrate competitors in the 
supply of stevedoring and/or port logistics services at Berth 29, Port Adelaide 
and this may have the effect of substantially lessening competition in the supply 
of such services. 
9. 
Post-acquisition, Aurizon would obtain the underleases for all of the established 
hardstand areas adjacent to Berth 29, which are critical for the storage of 
containers prior to being loaded or unloaded onto a vessel and for the storage of 
stevedoring and port logistics equipment at this berth.  
Making a submission 
10. 
The ACCC invites submissions from interested parties, particularly on the 
following key issues: 
• 
the likelihood that post-acquisition, Aurizon would be able to frustrate or 
foreclose rival rail haulage suppliers for containerised bulk minerals for 
customers in South Australia and north-western New South Wales/Victoria; 
• 
the likelihood that post-acquisition, Aurizon would be able to frustrate or 
foreclose stevedore and/or port logistics services access to Berth 29; 
• 
whether Berth 29 is the only berth suitable for the import and export of 
containerised bulk minerals in South Australia;  
• 
the extent to which road transport is a substitute for rail transport in the 
haulage of containerised bulk minerals for import or export, to and/or from 
Berth 29, and whether this is likely to change in the future; and 
• 
to what extent bulk minerals are required or preferred to be transported 
and/or stevedored using containers with specific characteristics (for 
example, rotatable containers), and whether this is likely to change in the 
future. 


Aurizon Operations Limited - proposed acquisition of Flinders Logistics Pty Ltd 
 
Page 3 of 13 
11. 
Interested parties should provide submissions by 5pm on 25 July 2024. 
Responses may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: Submission 
re: Aurizon’s proposed acquisition of Flinders Logistics.   
12. 
The ACCC anticipates making a final decision on 26 September 2024, however, 
this timeline can change. To keep up with possible timing changes and to find 
relevant documents, interested parties should visit the Mergers Register on the 
ACCC’s website at www.accc.gov.au/publicregisters/mergers-registers/public-
informal-merger-reviews. 
Confidentiality of submissions 
13. 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We 
will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) 
unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation 
or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the CCA. Where 
the ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, the ACCC will notify 
you in advance where possible so that you may have an opportunity to be heard. 
Therefore, please identify any confidential information that is provided to the 
ACCC. Our Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more 
information on confidentiality. 
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’ 
14. 
A Statement of Issues is not a final decision about a proposed acquisition. A 
Statement of Issues outlines the ACCC’s preliminary views and identifies further 
lines of inquiry. 
15. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 
The parties 
Aurizon 
16. 
Aurizon is a public corporation (ASX: AZJ) that primarily supplies rail freight 
services to customers throughout Australia, excluding Tasmania. It owns and 
operates railway locomotives and wagons to transport freight for coal, mining, 
industrial and agricultural industries and accordingly is an ‘above rail’ service 
provider.  
17. 
In addition to its above rail business, Aurizon supplies ‘below rail’ services, which 
involves providing access to and managing rail infrastructure, safety, signalling 
and communication systems, train control, rail construction, and maintenance. 
Aurizon operates the Central Queensland Rail Network and the Tarcoola to 
Darwin railway, as well as other spurs, yards, and sidings throughout Australia. 
Aurizon significantly expanded its rail freight presence in South Australia and the 
Northern Territory with its acquisition of One Rail in 2022. 


Aurizon Operations Limited - proposed acquisition of Flinders Logistics Pty Ltd 
 
Page 4 of 13 
18. 
Aurizon supplies some logistics services outside of South Australia in relation to 
bulk commodities, such as road transport, stevedoring and warehousing. Aurizon 
currently provides stevedoring services at the Port of Newcastle, the Port of 
Townsville and the Port of Darwin. The proposed acquisition would result in 
Aurizon expanding its stevedoring services to South Australia. 
Flinders Logistics 
19. 
Flinders Logistics is a 100% owned subsidiary of Flinders Port Holdings Pty Ltd 
(Flinders Port Holdings). Flinders Port Holdings owns several other 
businesses, including Flinders Ports Pty Ltd (Flinders Ports). Flinders Ports 
owns and operates seven ports in South Australia, including Port Adelaide and 
Port Pirie. Port Adelaide is the most significant port in South Australia and 
facilitates the import and export of a variety of goods, such as minerals, grain, 
motor vehicles, petroleum, and containerised general cargo. Port Pirie is 
significantly smaller than Port Adelaide, and primarily handles bulk minerals, 
coal, and grain. 
20. 
Flinders Logistics supplies stevedoring and port logistics services to importers 
and exporters of bulk commodities at Berths 18-20 and Berth 29 at Port Adelaide 
and at Port Pirie. Flinders Logistics supplies cargo handling services at Port Pirie 
through its subsidiary, Pirie Bulk Pty Ltd. 
Industry background 
Bulk cargo logistics  
21. 
Bulk cargo generally refers to homogenous liquid (wet bulk) or solid particulate 
(dry bulk) goods transported in a loose, unpackaged form, usually distinguished 
from general cargo transported in shipping containers.  
22. 
Importing or exporting bulk commodities by sea involves the following activities: 
• 
Transport between the sender/receiver and the port, either by rail or by road 
in wagons or trailers designed for bulk goods. 
• 
Port Logistics, which includes loading and unloading of cargo from trucks or 
trains, recording cargo movements, storage and warehousing, and general 
cargo handling using dedicated berth trucks, loaders, or other machinery. 
• 
Stevedoring, which refers to loading and unloading cargo from the ship 
using a variety of specialised machinery designed to handle the type of 
commodity. For example, reach stackers or cranes to lift bulk goods 
containers, shiploaders to lift loose material and drop it directly in the ship’s 
cargo hold, or using cranes fixed to the ship itself. 
23. 
Some market participants may define stevedoring as a sub-category of port 
logistics. For the purposes of this Statement of Issues, the ACCC identifies them 
as separate activities, noting that some market participants supply port logistics 
and stevedoring services together. 
24. 
Bulk commodities are sometimes transported and loaded on to ships using 
specialised bulk cargo containers with removable lids (‘containerised bulk’). 
Some market participants have developed specialised rotatable containers 


Aurizon Operations Limited - proposed acquisition of Flinders Logistics Pty Ltd 
 
Page 5 of 13 
designed for stevedoring bulk commodities. The rotatable containers are lifted 
from the berth using cranes that can rotate the container and remove the lid to 
empty the material into the ship’s hold. This method is used to reduce dust and 
prevent spillage of valuable or potentially environmentally hazardous material. 
Port Adelaide 
25. 
Port Adelaide has four ‘common user’ berths, Berths 18-20 and Berth 29, that 
have the facilities to handle bulk goods (Annexure A).  
26. 
Common user berths are berths for which Flinders Ports has not granted 
exclusive usage rights to a particular customer. The common user berths have 
adjacent areas for port logistics facilities, parts of which may also be designated 
‘common user’ or leased to stevedoring or logistics suppliers for exclusive use. 
Flinders Ports is responsible for managing access to common user berths and 
areas. 
27. 
Berth 29 is currently the only berth at Port Adelaide where containerised bulk is 
handled. A significant portion of Flinders Logistics’ bulk logistics and stevedoring 
operations at Berth 29 involve the use of rotatable containers. It uses reach 
stackers designed to unload containers from trucks or trains, and two mobile 
harbour cranes equipped with devices that upend rotatable containers. The 
ACCC understands that Flinders Logistics is currently the only stevedore and 
port logistics supplier providing this service at Port Adelaide, although mobile 
cranes are available for hire for a tariff. For importing bulk goods, Flinders 
Logistics uses large hoppers that funnel material lifted from the ship on to trucks 
or into containers. 
28. 
Other than Flinders Logistics, there are two providers of bulk commodity logistics 
and stevedoring at Port Adelaide: 
• 
Linx Cargo Care Group (Linx), which supplies logistics and stevedoring 
services in relation to non-containerised bulk at Port Adelaide, and has 
previously supplied stevedoring services at Port Pirie; and 
• 
Qube Holdings Ltd (Qube), which supplies logistics and stevedoring services 
in relation to non-containerised bulk at Port Adelaide, and stevedoring 
services at Port Pirie. 
Rail freight haulage (‘above rail’) 
29. 
Rail freight haulage is a component of the supply chain for producers of bulk 
goods imported and exported from Port Adelaide and Port Pirie. Rail operators 
provide ‘above rail’ services, including negotiating access that allow a train to run 
at a particular time on a rail line, and operating the rollingstock (trains, wagons) 
for that train service. Above rail services may also include providing access to 
port or intermodal facilities at times that align with a train service.  
30. 
The type of rollingstock that a rail freight operator uses can vary according to the 
type of commodity being moved. For bulk commodities such as minerals and 
coal, products might be moved in open wagons hauled by the locomotive, or in 
bulk containers that can be lifted on and off the train. Access between the rail 
network and a port may rely on dedicated rail lines, spurs or intermodal facilities 
operated by the port or other third parties to enable rail freight to reach the berth. 


Aurizon Operations Limited - proposed acquisition of Flinders Logistics Pty Ltd 
 
Page 6 of 13 
31. 
The ACCC has identified four actual or potential providers of above rail haulage 
services to and from ports in South Australia: 
• 
Aurizon 
• 
Qube, which supplies rail haulage, road haulage and logistics services 
throughout Australia 
• 
Pacific National Pty Ltd, a national rail freight business with significant 
operations in coal, bulk, and containerised around Australia, and 
• 
SCT Logistics, a national freight and logistics business. 
Rail tracks (‘below rail’) 
32. 
Australia’s key rail freight network, the Interstate rail network, is owned and 
operated by the Australian Rail Track Corporation (ARTC). The Interstate rail 
network links Port Adelaide and Port Pirie with Victoria, New South Wales, 
Queensland, and Western Australia. ARTC is exclusively a below rail operator, 
maintaining and facilitating access to its network. The ACCC regulates access to 
the Interstate rail network through a voluntary undertaking provided by the 
ARTC. 
33. 
Aurizon is the below rail operator for the Tarcoola to Darwin railway, which it has 
leased from the ARTC. Aurizon also operates a number of sidings and rail yards 
connected to the Interstate rail network. Access to these railways is regulated by 
the Essential Services Commission of South Australia (ESCOSA) under the 
Railways (Operations and Access) Act 1997 (SA), which requires below rail 
operators to provide access to certain railway services without discrimination and 
on fair commercial terms. 
Road freight haulage  
34. 
Road transport is an important aspect of the bulk commodity supply chain, 
particularly for customers without a direct rail link to the interstate rail network. 
Some producers of bulk commodities may exclusively use road transport for 
haulage to domestic customers or a port. Alternatively, some producers may use 
road for intermediate legs, such as from the mine to a rail depot or from rail 
depot to domestic customer. 
35. 
The ACCC has identified at least five major providers of road haulage services to 
and from ports in South Australia: 
• 
Qube 
• 
SCT Logistics 
• 
Toll Group 
• 
Symons Clark Logistics, and 
• 
Linfox. 


Aurizon Operations Limited - proposed acquisition of Flinders Logistics Pty Ltd 
 
Page 7 of 13 
The proposed transaction 
36. 
Aurizon proposes to acquire Flinders Logistics through a share sale agreement.  
37. 
Under the proposed acquisition, Aurizon would acquire the assets associated 
with Flinders Logistics’ stevedoring operation and also enter into underleases for 
certain land currently used by Flinders Logistics or Pirie Bulk. 
38. 
There is no direct overlap in activities between Aurizon and Flinders Logistics.  
Market definition 
39. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the relevant markets in which to consider 
the effect of the proposed acquisition are markets for the supply of: 
• 
Rail haulage services for the import and export of containerised bulk minerals 
for customers in South Australia and north-western New South 
Wales/Victoria; and 
• 
Stevedoring and/or port logistics services for bulk commodities at Berth 29, 
Port Adelaide. 
40. 
The ACCC is considering several issues that may also affect our final views on 
the appropriate market definition, including: 
• 
the suitability of alternative berths at Port Adelaide or alternative ports in 
South Australia or interstate to Berth 29 for importing and exporting bulk 
minerals; 
• 
the extent that specialised containerisation is required for transporting and 
stevedoring bulk minerals; and 
• 
the extent that road haulage is a substitute for rail haulage to transport bulk 
minerals to or from ports. 
Issue of concern: Foreclosure or frustration of rivals in the 
supply of rail haulage services for containerised bulk 
minerals 
 
41. 
The proposed acquisition would combine Australia’s largest rail freight operator 
with Flinders Logistics, which provides stevedoring and port logistics services for 
bulk and limited break-bulk cargo at Berths 18-20 and Berth 29 at Port Adelaide.  
42. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that post-acquisition Aurizon may have the 
ability and incentive to foreclose or frustrate rivals in the supply of rail haulage 
services for containerised bulk minerals for customers in South Australia and 
north-western New South Wales/Victoria. The ACCC is also considering the 
extent to which Aurizon may have the ability and incentive to engage in such 
foreclosure via pricing, bundling or tying of its rail haulage, stevedoring and/or 
port services; or by frustrating rival rail haulage providers’ access to these 
services.  


Aurizon Operations Limited - proposed acquisition of Flinders Logistics Pty Ltd 
 
Page 8 of 13 
43. 
The ACCC is concerned that a lessening of competition in the supply of these 
services could result in higher prices, less investment in supply chain 
infrastructure, or lower quality or innovation for bulk minerals customers. 
Berth 29, Port Adelaide 
44. 
Market feedback indicates that Berth 29 at Port Adelaide is critical to the import 
and export of containerised bulk minerals, such as mining products (for example, 
base metal concentrates) and mineral sands for customers in South Australia 
and north-western New South Wales-Victoria.   
45. 
Market feedback indicates that Berth 29 is the only berth in South Australia 
capable of handling containerised bulk mining products and mineral sands due 
to several features unique to the berth, including:  
• 
A purpose-built rail siding adjacent to the berth that is linked via a spur to 
the ARTC Interstate Mainline. Information available to the ACCC indicates 
that other ports or berths in South Australia and regional Victoria do not 
have commensurate rail access to the main interstate rail networks or, 
where they do, the berth is either capacity constrained or specialised for 
other types of cargo (for example, general cargo containers, chemicals, or 
grain); 
• 
Berth strength to accommodate equipment, such as two mobile harbour 
cranes, container rotation attachments, and reach stackers. This 
equipment is used to handle containers, move them around the berth and 
load or unload containers directly onto a vessel or onto the berth for 
storage. The ACCC notes that Flinders Ports has modified Berth 20, 
increasing its strength to accommodate a mobile shiploader for one of its 
export customers;  
• 
Sufficient laydown and hardstand space or storage facilities for these 
products.  
46. 
The ACCC is continuing to assess the substitutability of alternative berths at Port 
Adelaide or other ports in South Australia and interstate to Berth 29 for these 
commodities. Market feedback indicates that Whyalla and Port Pirie can be 
difficult to access on a long-term basis, as required by mining and minerals 
customers.   
47. 
The ACCC understands that Flinders Logistics is currently the only supplier of 
port logistics and stevedoring services at Port Adelaide in relation to 
containerised bulk commodities. 
Foreclosure of rival rail haulage suppliers 
Rail siding 
48. 
Flinders Ports is the infrastructure owner and Rail Infrastructure Manager for the 
rail spur leading into Berth 29, and controls access to this spur. The spur 
includes two rail sidings which run adjacent to the berth.   
49. 
Aurizon currently performs the shunting and marshalling of all trains into and out 
of the Berth 29 rail spur under a Rail Management Agreement with Flinders 
Ports. Aurizon is also responsible for managing the track between the ARTC 


Aurizon Operations Limited - proposed acquisition of Flinders Logistics Pty Ltd 
 
Page 9 of 13 
main line connection and the switch for the Berth 29 rail spur. This section of 
track is licenced to Aurizon under a Licence Agreement and is subject to the SA 
Rail Access Regime.  
50. 
The ACCC understands that to obtain access to the railway siding at Berth 29, a 
rail haulage supplier must request from the ARTC track access times on the 
main line that connects into Berth 29 and the windows available at Berth 29. The 
rail haulage supplier will then inform Flinders Logistics of the rail windows that 
have been allowed into the Berth 29 rail siding.  
51. 
Flinders Logistics will consider the current work profile at Berth 29, available 
times, and whether the time window available is sufficient for the task required. A 
rail safety interface agreement is required between Flinders Ports, Flinders 
Logistics, and the rail haulage supplier before a train can enter the Berth 29 rail 
siding.  
52. 
Post-acquisition, Flinders Ports would continue to control access to the Berth 29 
rail spur.  
Rail siding staging area 
53. 
Flinders Logistics currently provides loading and unloading services for all trains 
coming into Berth 29, regardless of the rail haulage supplier or their customer. 
As part of this service, Flinders Logistics relies on a designated staging area 
(Annexure A, Area B) to load or unload containers from the train. It is also 
responsible for transporting containers between the staging area and long-term 
storage areas (Annexure A, Areas C-E) until the customer’s containers are 
ready to be stevedored or transported by rail haulage again. To obtain access to 
the established laydown or hardstand areas, service providers or customers 
make a request to Flinders Ports to use these areas.  
54. 
Post-acquisition, Aurizon would have underleases for the designated staging 
area (Area B) and all established storage areas (Areas C-E) at Berth 29, and 
would be required to provide loading and unloading services to third party 
operators on an open-access basis.   
55. 
The ACCC expects that Flinders Ports currently has the ability to foreclose 
stevedores, rail haulage and port service providers’ access to the rail siding and 
the established storage and hardstand areas at Berth 29, given its ownership 
and management of these areas and provision of loading and unloading 
services. Post acquisition, Aurizon would have control over the staging and 
long-term storage areas and the loading and unloading of trains.  
56. 
The ACCC is concerned that Aurizon’s incentives to provide access likely differs 
to the incentives of Flinders Ports. Flinders Ports (and by extension, its 
subsidiary Flinders Logistics) is unlikely to have an incentive to foreclose or 
frustrate rail haulage service providers’ access to the rail siding, staging and 
long-term storage areas since it does not participate in rail haulage itself.  
57. 
The ACCC is concerned that post-acquisition, Aurizon, as a vertically integrated 
rail operator, may have an incentive to raise prices or frustrate rival rail haulage 
providers’ access to the staging area at Berth 29 or give itself priority access 
times or locations so as to increase rivals’ costs and make its own rail haulage 
services more attractive to customers.  


Aurizon Operations Limited - proposed acquisition of Flinders Logistics Pty Ltd 
 
Page 10 of 13 
58. 
The ACCC is concerned that foreclosing or frustrating rival rail haulage suppliers 
at Berth 29 would have the likely effect of substantially lessening competition in 
the market for the supply of rail haulage services for containerised bulk minerals 
for customers in South Australia and north-western New South Wales/Victoria.  
Access Regulation 
59. 
Market participants have expressed concern that the rail siding, staging area and 
hardstand areas at Berth 29 are not presently subject to any access regulation. 
The ACCC is continuing to consider the regulatory status of these areas. 
Road Haulage 
60. 
The ACCC is considering the extent to which road haulage is a substitute for rail 
haulage of bulk commodities or certain types of bulk commodities for import or 
export.  
61. 
Market feedback indicates that road haulage can be a substitute for the transport 
of some bulk cargo, especially for bulk cargo being transported over shorter 
distances or for lower volumes. Road may be considered more flexible than rail 
in certain circumstances because goods can be transported to locations without 
existing rail infrastructure and trucks are not subject to the same scheduling and 
access requirements as rail.  
62. 
However, market feedback indicates road is not a substitute for some customers 
who require haulage over longer distances or for large volumes. The ACCC is 
also considering if there circumstances in which bulk minerals are not able to be 
transported via road haulage for safety.  
63. 
Market feedback indicates that mining volumes in the region are likely to 
increase in the near future and that some customers may see rail transport as 
the only viable form of transport for exporting the volume of products required. In 
addition, the ACCC understands that mining approvals are increasingly being 
linked to a proponent’s future decarbonisation position and that this is creating 
significant incentives for mining companies to choose rail haulage over road.  
Opportunities for new development at or near Berth 29 
64. 
The ACCC understands there is scope for development of the vacant land east 
of the rail siding (Annexure A, teal shaded area), where another rail siding or 
storage hardstand area could be constructed. The ACCC is considering this 
further, particularly in relation to whether competing rail haulage providers could 
seek to bypass supply of unloading services from Aurizon and establish their 
own sidings or storage hardstand area. The ACCC considers the time and cost 
associated with establishing a competing siding is relevant to our competition 
assessment.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to 
Aurizon’s ability and incentive to foreclose or frustrate rivals in the supply of rail 
haulage services for containerised bulk minerals for customers and the competitive 
impact of any such strategy. In particular, market participants may wish to comment on 
the following:  
• 
whether Berths 18-20 at Port Adelaide are a substitute for Berth 29 for bulk mineral 
products, and the reasons why / why not 


Aurizon Operations Limited - proposed acquisition of Flinders Logistics Pty Ltd 
 
Page 11 of 13 
• 
whether other ports within South Australia (such as Whyalla) or interstate (such as 
Newcastle, Geelong, or Portland) are a substitute for Berth 29 for bulk mineral 
products, and the reasons why / why not 
• 
the environmental or economic reasons why certain bulk mineral products may 
need to be transported via specialised rotatable containers  
• 
the extent to which road haulage is a substitute for rail haulage of bulk minerals 
and whether there are particular products, volumes and/or locations for which road 
haulage is not substitutable 
• 
estimates of the time and cost involved in switching from rail to road haulage 
• 
factors affecting any investment by market participants in port logistics 
infrastructure at Berth 29 or elsewhere, such as hardstand areas, storage and 
maintenance facilities, or rail sidings, and 
• 
the benefits to customers from acquiring multiple services (that is, a combination of 
rail haulage services, stevedoring services and/or port logistics services) from the 
same supplier. 
Issue that may raise concerns: Foreclosure or frustration 
of rivals in the supply of stevedoring services and/or port 
logistics services at Berth 29, Port Adelaide 
65. 
The ACCC is also considering Aurizon’s ability and incentive post-acquisition to 
foreclose or frustrate competing stevedores or port logistics suppliers’ access to 
hardstand and laydown areas Berth 29, Port Adelaide and the competitive 
impact of any such approach.  
66. 
As part of the acquisition, Aurizon would acquire the underleases for the 
established hardstand areas adjacent to Berth 29. Market feedback indicates 
that these hardstand areas are critical for the storage of containers prior to being 
loaded or unloaded onto a vessel and for stevedoring and port logistics 
equipment.  
67. 
Market feedback indicates that while Aurizon would not control the issuing of 
stevedore licenses, through its acquisition of the underleases, this would 
effectively prevent stevedores from being able to compete, notwithstanding the 
fact that they may have been granted a license by Flinders Ports.  
68. 
The ACCC is concerned that Aurizon’s incentives to provide access to the 
storage and hardstand areas may differ to the incentives of Flinders Logistics. 
Much like access to the rail siding at Berth 29, Flinders Ports (and by extension, 
its subsidiary Flinders Logistics) is unlikely to have an incentive to frustrate rival 
stevedores or port logistics suppliers’ access to the storage and hardstand areas 
in order to maximise throughput through the berth.  
69. 
The ACCC is concerned that post-acquisition, Aurizon, as a vertically integrated 
provider of rail haulage, stevedoring and port logistics, may have an incentive to 
foreclose or frustrate rival stevedores and port logistics suppliers’ access to the 
hardstand areas at Berth 29, effectively preventing rival stevedores from being 
able to compete.  


Aurizon Operations Limited - proposed acquisition of Flinders Logistics Pty Ltd 
 
Page 12 of 13 
70. 
The ACCC notes that there is undeveloped vacant land available for lease 
adjacent to the existing Berth 29 operations (Annexure A, Areas G and H), 
including an area opposite the Berth 29 rail siding (Annexure A, teal shaded 
area) from which a second loading and unloading operation or further 
sheds/storage could be established.  
71. 
The ACCC intends to examine the suitability of this land for stevedoring and port 
logistics services, including the level of investment that would be required to 
develop the land, the time required to establish this as an alternative and the 
related expected profitability of such an investment. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to 
Aurizon’s ability and incentive to foreclose rival stevedores and port logistics service 
providers at Berth 29, Port Adelaide and the impact of any such strategy on 
competition. In particular, market participants may wish to comment on the following:  
• 
the extent to which stevedoring and port logistics services are a factor a customer 
may consider when selecting a port, 
• 
the extent to which the areas available for development at Berth 29 (Annexure A, 
Areas G and H and the teal shaded area) would be sufficient for stevedores and 
port logistics suppliers and the timeframes and investment required for 
development.   
Issues unlikely to raise concerns: Foreclosure or 
frustration of rivals in the supply of rail haulage, 
stevedoring or port logistics services, Port Pirie  
72. 
Some market participants have expressed concern that post-acquisition Aurizon 
would have the ability and incentive to foreclose or frustrate rivals in the supply 
of rail haulage, stevedoring or port logistics at Port Pirie.   
73. 
The ACCC's preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to 
substantially lessen competition in the supply of rail haulage, stevedoring, or port 
logistics services at Port Pirie as Aurizon will not acquire any assets or 
underleases which are critical to the supply of these services.  
ACCC's future steps 
74. 
As noted above, the ACCC invites submissions from market participants on each 
of the issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that 
may be relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. Submissions should 
be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au by no later than 5pm on 25 July 2024. 
75. 
The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
76. 
The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 26 September 2024. 
However, the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment explaining the 
ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's public announcement. 


Aurizon Operations Limited - proposed acquisition of Flinders Logistics Pty Ltd 
 
Page 13 of 13 
Annexure A: Berth 29, Port Adelaide 
 
