 
 
Page 1 
 
 
 
 
16 May 2012 
 
Statement of Issues — Woolworths Limited and 
Lowe's Companies Inc (Joint Venture) – proposed 
acquisition of G Gay & Co hardware stores in Ballarat 
1. 
Outlined below is the Statement of Issues released by the Australian Competition 
and Consumer Commission (ACCC) in relation to the proposed acquisition of 
the assets of three hardware stores owned by G Gay & Co by Woolworths 
Limited (Woolworths) and Lowe's Companies Inc (Lowe’s) (Joint Venture) 
(Proposed Acquisition).  
2. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
Proposed Acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well 
as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
3. 
In line with the ACCC’s Merger Review Process Guidelines (available on the 
ACCC’s website at www.accc.gov.au) the ACCC has established a secondary 
timeline for further consideration of the issues. The ACCC anticipates completing 
further market inquiries by 1 June 2012 and anticipates making a final decision 
by 5 July 2012. However, the anticipated timeline can change in line with the 
Merger Review Process Guidelines. To keep abreast of possible changes in 
relation to timing and to find relevant documents, market participants should visit 
the Mergers Register on the ACCC's website at 
www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
4. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 
Background 
5. 
On 13 February 2012, the Joint Venture provided its submission seeking informal 
clearance from the ACCC in respect of the Proposed Acquisition. 


 
 
Page 2 
 
The parties 
Woolworths Limited and Lowe's Companies Inc (Joint Venture) 
6. 
Woolworths is a large Australian retailer whose businesses include the Big W 
chain of discount department stores, Woolworths and Safeway supermarkets, and 
electronics, liquor and petrol retailing chains. 
7. 
Lowe's is a large, US based hardware and home improvement retailer. Lowe's 
operates over 1,600 'big box'1 home improvement stores throughout the United 
States and Canada. Lowe's only Australian operations are through its involvement 
in the Joint Venture, and its joint ownership of Danks Holdings Limited (Danks), 
also with Woolworths. 
8. 
In late 2009, Carboxy Pty Limited (Carboxy), being another joint venture vehicle 
of Woolworths and Lowe's, acquired Danks, a wholesaler of hardware products 
and related services.  
9. 
Danks’ principal business is the wholesale distribution of hardware products and 
related services to independently owned and operated hardware retailers 
including Danks member stores and other non-affiliated stores. Danks members 
operate stores under the banners of “Home Timber and Hardware”, “Thrifty Link 
Hardware” and “Plants Plus Garden Centres.” In addition to supplying products 
at the wholesale level, Danks provides members with guidance as to product 
pricing and retail strategies, marketing and promotional services.  
10. 
The Joint Venture owns and operates Masters stores, a recent 'big box' format 
entrant into the hardware and home improvement retail sector in Australia. The 
Joint Venture currently has eight stores in Australia and is in the process of 
opening a number of further Masters stores. 
11. 
The Joint Venture plans to commence development of a site at 25-51 Learmonth 
Road in Wendouree, Victoria shortly and expects to begin trading a Masters store 
at the site in 2013 (Masters). 
G Gay & Co 
12. 
The three stores owned by G Gay & Co that are the subject of the Proposed 
Acquisition (Gay Stores), are privately operated businesses in the Ballarat area 
of Victoria. The Gay Stores consist of the following three multi-category retail 
stores, which sell a wide range of hardware and home improvement products:  
a. 
Home Timber and Hardware Ballarat, a hardware and home improvement 
store with a trade offer and a do-it-yourself (DIY) offer2 located at 727 
Gillies Street, Ballarat; 
                                                 
1  'Big box' stores are generally characterised by their large format and range of products. In previous 
reviews, the ACCC has found that big box stores are generally considered to be 'destination' stores – 
that is, stores to which customers are prepared to travel specifically to visit. 
2  Market inquiries indicated that hardware retailers have two distinct types of customers.  Some 
retailers cater to both types of customers, while others focus on a particular customer group.  These 


 
 
Page 3 
 
b. 
Home Timber and Hardware Wendouree, a hardware and home 
improvement store with a trade offer and a DIY offer located at 810 Howitt 
Street, Wendouree; and 
c. 
Ballarat Building Suppliers, a hardware and home improvement store with 
a trade focus and a DIY offer located at 717 Main Road, Ballarat East.  
13. 
The Gay Stores operate as part of the ‘Home Hardware’ banner group. This 
means that the Gay Stores adopt the Home Hardware brand, marketing materials 
and promotions.  In addition to the Gay Stores being required to price advertised 
products to comply with prices published in the ‘Home Hardware’ marketing 
materials, to some extent Danks (owned by the Joint Venture) also guides the 
Gay Stores in the product ranges and prices to offer. The Gay Stores also acquire 
a sizeable proportion of products at the wholesale level from Danks.  
Woolworths-Danks s87B undertakings 
14. 
In order to address competition issues identified by the ACCC in relation to the 
Joint Venture’s proposed acquisition of Danks, on 11 November 2009 the ACCC 
accepted court enforceable undertakings pursuant to section 87B of the Trade 
Practices Act 1974 – now the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Act).3  
15. 
Among other commitments, the parties have undertaken, for the next 10 years:  
a. 
not to prevent or hinder an existing Danks member from terminating their 
membership agreement, for instance if that member wished to switch to 
another banner group or obtain wholesale supply from another source; and 
b. 
not to provide less favourable terms and conditions for the supply of goods 
or services to any store located within a 10km radius of a Masters store than 
the terms and conditions enjoyed by similar stores supplied by the parties 
elsewhere4.  
The proposed acquisition 
16. 
The Joint Venture proposes to acquire the three Gay Stores in the Ballarat area 
from G Gay & Co.  
                                                                                                                                              
customer types are: (1) trade customers, who purchase hardware to complete construction, 
renovation or other projects for which they have been employed.  Examples include painters, 
plumbers and builders; and (2) DIY or retail customers, who are typically those who purchase 
hardware products to complete projects often within their own homes, and for which they are unpaid.  
3  A copy of the undertaking is available on the ACCC’s website at the undertakings register (see 
www.accc.gov.au, following the link to public registers). 
4  In the Section 87B undertaking given to the ACCC by the Joint Venture dated 11 November 2009, 
the geographic scope of the obligations was 5 kilometres.  On 2 June 2010 this undertaking was 
varied to expand the geographic scope to 10 kilometres.   


 
 
Page 4 
 
Other industry participants – Ballarat  
Bunnings 
 
17. 
Bunnings is a large retailer of hardware and home improvement products, 
operating a number of warehouse ‘big box’ format and small format stores in 
Australia.5 
18. 
In the Ballarat area, Bunnings has two stores: 
a. 
Bunnings Warehouse, a hardware and home improvement store with a trade 
offer and a DIY offer located at 306 – 312 Creswick Road, Ballarat; and 
b. 
Bunnings Trade Centre, a trade outlet located at 66 Warringa Drive, 
Mitchell Park.    
 
Dahlsens 
 
19. 
Dahlsens is a family-owned business which comprises of a number of medium-
large format stores retailing hardware and home improvement products to trade 
and DIY customers at 29 locations in Victoria and New South Wales.6  
20. 
In the Ballarat area, Dahlsens has a hardware and home improvement store with a 
trade offer and a DIY offer located at 63 Albert Street, Sebastopol.  
 
Independent multi-category retailers 
 
21. 
In addition to the merger parties and market participants mentioned above, there 
are also independent hardware and home improvement retailers in the Ballarat 
area, which are not members of any banner group, but which supply a range of 
products from a limited number of product categories.  While these multi-
category retailers supply from more than one product category, they do not 
supply the range of products from as many product categories as the Gay Stores 
do.7  
22. 
In the Ballarat area, independent multi-category hardware retailers are: 
a.    Robert Sim Building Supplies, a hardware and home improvement store 
with a trade offer and a DIY offer located at 102 Humffray Street, South 
Ballarat; 
b. 
Whitehead Timber Sales, a hardware and home improvement store with a 
trade offer and a DIY offer located at 831 Creswick Road, Ballarat; and 
                                                 
5  Bunnings is part of the Wesfarmers Group, an ASX-listed Australian company with business 
activities across a range of industries. In addition to hardware and home improvement, the 
Wesfarmers Group operates supermarkets, liquor stores, discount department stores and office supply 
stores. 
6  This includes three truss and frame manufacturing sites and one metal roofing centre. 
7  The multi-category retailers in the Ballarat area which are listed here are focussed on the supply of 
timber and building supplies.  


 
 
Page 5 
 
c. 
Ross Street Building Supplies, a hardware and home improvement store 
with a trade offer and a DIY offer located at 3 Ross Street, Ballarat.  
 
Specialty retailers 
 
23. 
There are a number of stores in the Ballarat area which retail a range of hardware 
and home improvement products within a particular product category.  For 
example, Reece sells a range of plumbing products, Total Tools sells a range of 
tools and Formosa Gardens Plants Plus sells a range of garden products.  
Wholesale suppliers 
 
24. 
Hardware and home improvement retailers purchase products from wholesalers 
and/or manufacturers, either directly or with the support of buying groups. 
Wholesale suppliers include the Joint Venture (through Danks) and Mitre 10.   
Market inquiries 
25. 
On 13 February 2012 the ACCC commenced market inquiries regarding the 
Proposed Acquisition.   The ACCC received information from a range of 
interested parties.  
26. 
The ACCC now invites further information from interested parties to assist with 
its investigation as set out below.  
With/without test 
27. 
In assessing a merger pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC considers the 
effects of the transaction by comparing the likely competitive environment if the 
transaction proceeds (the ‘with’ position) to the likely competitive environment if 
the transaction does not proceed (the likely ‘without’ or ‘counterfactual’ position) 
to determine whether the acquisition is likely to substantially lessen competition 
in any relevant market. 
28. 
On the basis of its inquiries to date, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that in the 
event that the Joint Venture does not acquire the Gay Stores: 
a. 
The Joint Venture is likely to become a new entrant multi-category retailer 
of a full-range of hardware and home improvement products through its 
Masters store model targeting retail/DIY and trade customers in the Ballarat 
area in the foreseeable future. It will also continue to be a wholesaler of 
hardware products to independent retailers of hardware and home 
improvement products through its Danks subsidiary.  
 
b. 
The Gay Stores and the Masters store will separately retail a range of 
hardware products in the Ballarat area for the foreseeable future. The Gay 


 
 
Page 6 
 
Stores continued independent competition may or may not be in association 
with the Home Hardware banner group.8 
Market definition 
29. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the competitive effects of the Proposed 
Acquisition should be assessed in the context of a local market for the retail 
supply of hardware and home improvement products in the Ballarat area.9   
Retail offerings 
 
30. 
The Joint Venture intends to develop a Masters store on Learmonth Road, 
Wendouree, a suburb of Ballarat. Upon completion of this store, scheduled for 
October 2013, the Joint Venture and the G Gay & Co businesses will overlap in 
relation to the retail supply of a range of hardware products to consumers in the 
Ballarat area. These products encompass a range of product categories, including:   
i.     tools and hardware  
ii.    bathroom and kitchen materials  
iii.   plumbing supplies  
iv.   paint and decoration  
v.    garden supplies  
vi.   timber and building supplies  
vii.  lighting and electrical  
viii. outdoor living  
ix.   flooring  
x.    storage and organisation 
xi.   window furnishing.  
 
31. 
Hardware and home improvement products within these product categories are 
supplied through a number of retail distribution channels, including:  
a. 
multi-category hardware and home improvement retailers of various sizes 
(“hardware stores”);  
b. 
category specialists, which tend to cover a single or select range of product 
categories such as plumbing supplies, e.g. Reece and Tradelink; and  
c. 
discount department/variety stores such as BigW and Kmart. 
 
32. 
The ACCC’s inquiries indicate that retailers in the Ballarat area seek to attract 
customers via their total product/service offering. This includes the range of 
products the retailer brings together in one place for the customer, the format and 
size of the store, as well as services it provides, such as specialist advice, delivery 
and convenient payment methods (e.g. trade accounts).  Different retailers put 
varying degrees of emphasis on each of these factors. The ACCC considers that 
                                                 
8  If the Gay Stores were to continue their association with the ‘Home Hardware’ banner group, they 
would effectively obtain some of the wholesale supplies and promotional support/materials from their 
retail competitor.  
9   This refers to the supply of a range of product categories which are within the hardware and home 
improvement definition set out at [31].  


 
 
Page 7 
 
differences in the product, service and range offerings between stores and chains 
are factors which influence the closeness of competition between particular 
stores.  
33. 
The ACCC’s inquiries to date indicate that while specialty stores compete with 
multi-category stores to some extent, stores offering a similar range of products 
are closer competitors. Therefore, multi-category hardware and home 
improvement stores, which offer multiple product categories in one store, are 
likely to be closer competitors than specialty stores.  
34. 
Although the ACCC considers that it is unlikely that each retailer selling products 
from a given category imposes an equally strong competitive constraint on all 
other retailers of those products, the ACCC considers there is potential for 
specialty retailers to impose some degree of competitive constraint on hardware 
retailers in the Ballarat area. The ACCC considers that department/variety stores 
are likely to be an even less proximate source of competitive constraint on multi-
category hardware stores. 
35. 
The ACCC’s preliminary conclusion, therefore, is that Masters and the Gay 
Stores are likely to compete with retailers of varying formats, store sizes and 
product specialisations. However, of these, hardware stores of similar product 
range, promotional activity, store format and location are likely to be closer 
competitors. 
Customer base 
 
36. 
The ACCC has considered whether separate markets exist for retail sales of 
hardware and home improvement products to DIY and trade customers.  
37. 
Industry participants draw a distinction between DIY and trade customers based 
on their different buying habits (for example, whether they use trade accounts) 
and preferences. However, there is a degree of overlap between the products they 
buy.   
38. 
Market inquiries indicate that customers’ preferences and expectations of 
hardware and home improvement retail stores vary and depend, in part, on the 
purpose of a customer’s shopping trip. In general terms, DIY customers value the 
ability to shop from a range of products at competitive prices with a degree of 
personalised service.  In comparison, trade customers are time-sensitive, valuing 
consistently prompt service, the ability to obtain a trade account or store credit, 
reliable supply and delivery of products to worksites if required. Hardware 
retailers may compete on the basis of these differences.  For example, some 
stores focus on trade customers by offering trade account or store credit, 
dedicated speciality staff and prompt delivery of products.  Other stores focus on 
DIY customers by offering, for example, ease of access and DIY workshops.  
However, market inquiries indicated that most retailers compete for both trade 
and DIY customers.  
39. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that these two categories of customers are not 
sufficiently differentiated to be in separate markets, but the differences between 


 
 
Page 8 
 
them may mean that any competition effects of the Proposed Acquisition could 
affect them differently. 
Geographic scope of competition  
40. 
The ACCC considers that the geographic field of demand-side substitution is 
local, reflecting the distances that consumers are willing to travel to make 
purchases that are often regular and low-value relative to transport and other 
transaction costs. Market inquiries also indicate that retailers often lower their 
prices in response to the price of a competitor in a local area. The price-match 
guarantees advertised by Bunnings, Dahlsens and Masters are examples of this. 
41. 
In previous competition analyses in the hardware industry, the ACCC has 
indicated that it considers each retail market on a case-by-case basis, closely 
examining competition within the 5km radius of the target and including 
participants up to 10km away where local circumstances meant this was 
appropriate.  However, the nearest hardware store outside of the Ballarat area is 
at least 50 kilometres away. Therefore, the ACCC is considering the Proposed 
Acquisition in the context of the Ballarat area.   
42. 
The ACCC considers the geographic market is the local retail market, but 
recognises that large chains and banner groups are subject to a degree of broader 
competitive constraint arising from their standardised retail offers and will 
consider the effect of this constraint when assessing the acquisition.   
Conclusion on retail markets 
 
43. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the Gay Stores and Masters are like to 
compete against a range of suppliers of hardware and home improvement 
products at the retail level to trade and DIY customers in the Ballarat area. 
However, the ACCC considers that among the various types of retailers, multi-
category hardware stores are likely to be each others’ closest competitors. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary view of the 
markets in which the Gay Stores compete. Market participants may wish to comment on: 
 
- 
The extent to which category specialists and other types of retailers impose a 
strong competitive constraint on the offers made by hardware stores both in the 
Ballarat area and on a broader geographic basis. 
 
- 
The extent to which the Gay Stores provide a strong competitive offering to DIY 
customers, as distinct from their offerings to trade customers. 
Statement of issues 
44. 
For the purposes of this Statement of Issues, the issues in this matter are 
categorised as 'issues of concern'. 


 
 
Page 9 
 
Issues of concern 
Reduced retail competition in the Ballarat area 
 
45. 
The ACCC is concerned that the Proposed Acquisition will increase market 
concentration and will remove a close and effective competitive constraint on 
other hardware retailers in the Ballarat area in the foreseeable future. 
46. 
Market inquiries indicate that the Gay Stores, located at Gillies Street, Ballarat 
and Howitt Street, Wendouree are close competitors of the Bunnings Warehouse 
store in Ballarat, to a greater extent than the other multi-category stores in the 
Ballarat area. The ACCC considers that the product offering, location, prices and 
service levels of the Gay Stores indicate that they would be likely to be one of the 
closest and most effective competitors to the Bunnings Warehouse store and the 
planned Masters store, to be located at Wendouree from 2013.    
47. 
There are currently three major firms that retail hardware and home improvement 
products across a range of product categories in the Ballarat area: 
a. 
the three Gay Stores;  
b. 
Bunnings (one store);10 and 
c. 
Dahlsens (one store).  
48. 
In terms of store numbers, post-acquisition, the Joint Venture would own four out 
of six major multi-category hardware stores in the Ballarat area.   
49. 
The Gay Stores, Bunnings and Dahlsens stores are similar in size, format, product 
offerings and promotional activities.  However, based on these factors as well as 
the locations of their stores, market inquiries to date have indicated that the Gay 
Stores and Bunnings are currently the closest competitors of each other, and are 
likely to be the closest competitors of the Masters store when it commences 
operations in the Ballarat area in 2013.  
50. 
The ACCC considers that when Masters commences operations in the Ballarat 
area, it will be a strong competitor, and that absent the proposed acquisition, 
Masters’ entry would be pro-competitive as there would be four independent 
hardware retailers in the Ballarat area from 2013. The ACCC is concerned that if 
the acquisition proceeds, the primary competitors to the planned Masters store 
would be Bunnings and to a lesser extent, Dahlsens, a reduction from three to 
two.  
51. 
As noted above, the group of small hardware stores have smaller product ranges, 
limited buying power and advertising levels relative to the larger hardware stores. 
In addition, specialty retailers in the Ballarat area have a relatively niche product 
focus.  The ACCC’s preliminary view is that these retailers would be unlikely to 
constrain an increase in prices, or a reduction in promotions or services offered to 
                                                 
10  There is also a Bunnings Trade Centre located in Mitchell Park.  However, it does not retail a full 
range of hardware and home improvement products and therefore has not been included here.  


 
 
Page 10 
 
consumers, by the larger hardware stores such as the Gay Stores, Bunnings and 
Masters. 
52. 
As the ACCC’s preliminary view is that it is unlikely that these smaller retailers 
of hardware and home improvement products in the Ballarat area are close 
competitors to the major hardware retail firms, the ACCC is concerned that the 
acquisition may have a substantial effect on competition in the retail of hardware 
and home improvement products in the Ballarat area.    
The ACCC invites comments on the extent of the competitive constraint that is likely to 
occur in the absence of the proposed acquisition.  For example:  
- 
Are the Gay Stores likely to remain vigorous and effective competitors in the 
absence of the proposed acquisition? 
- 
Do you agree with the ACCC’s preliminary view that specialty stores and other 
retailers are not likely to impose a strong competitive constraint on the merged 
entity? 
- 
Which competitors, if any, are likely to competitively constrain the merged 
entity? 
 
Barriers to Entry 
 
53. 
Market inquiries have indicated that entry of another hardware retailer, or 
expansion by a currently limited range incumbent, is unlikely given the presence 
of incumbents in the Ballarat area including the Masters store (from 2013), two 
Bunnings stores, a Dahlsens store and the three Gay Stores.   
54. 
The ACCC also considers that the Gay Stores may also represent a means by 
which an alternative banner group or hardware chain could enter the Ballarat area 
as a competitor to other hardware chains. The proposed acquisition would remove 
this avenue for new entry, and therefore, increased competition compared to the 
counterfactual. 
Preliminary conclusions 
55. 
For the reasons outlined above, the ACCC considers that the proposed acquisition 
may raise competition concerns with respect to the retail supply of hardware and 
home improvement products to consumers in the Ballarat area. 
The ACCC invites market participants to comment on its concerns in relation to the retail 
supply of hardware and home improvement products in the Ballarat area.  
 
Market participants may wish to provide further information about the likely competitive 
constraints on the merged entity if the Proposed Acquisition were to proceed. 
  


 
 
Page 11 
 
ACCC's future steps 
56. 
The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers the market 
responses invited by this Statement of Issues. 
57. 
The ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on each of the issues 
identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that may be relevant 
to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. 
58. 
Submissions are to be received by the ACCC no later than 1 June 2012. The 
ACCC will consider the submissions received from the market and the merger 
parties in light of the issues identified above and will, in conjunction with 
information and submissions already provided by the parties, come to a final 
view in light of the issues raised above. 
59. 
The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 5 July 2012. However 
the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Merger Review Process 
Guidelines. A public Competition Assessment for the purpose of explaining the 
ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's public 
announcement. 
 
