Page 1 of 16 
 
Public Competition Assessment 
5 December 2013 
Woolworths Limited and Lowe's Companies Inc – 
proposed acquisition of G Gay & Co stores 
Introduction 
1. 
On 4 October 2012, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission 
(ACCC) announced its decision to oppose the proposed acquisition of assets 
associated with three stores owned by G Gay & Co by a joint venture between 
Woolworths Limited and Lowe's Companies Inc (the Joint Venture) (the 
proposed acquisition). The ACCC decided that the proposed acquisition would 
have or be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in the 
relevant market in contravention of section 50 of the Competition and Consumer 
Act 2010 (the Act). 
2. 
The ACCC made its decision on the basis of the information provided by a number 
of sources including the information provided by the parties to the proposed 
acquisition (the merger parties) and information arising from market inquiries. 
This Public Competition Assessment outlines the basis on which the ACCC has 
reached its decision on the proposed acquisition, subject to confidentiality 
considerations. 
Public Competition Assessment 
3. 
To provide an enhanced level of transparency in its decision making process, the 
ACCC issues a Public Competition Assessment for all transaction proposals 
where: 
 
a proposed acquisition is opposed; 
 
a proposed acquisition is subject to enforceable undertakings; 
 
the merger parties seek such disclosure; or 
 
a proposed acquisition is not opposed but raises important issues that the 
ACCC considers should be made public. 
4. 
This Public Competition Assessment has been issued because the proposed 
acquisition was opposed by the ACCC. 


 
Page 2 of 16 
5. 
By issuing Public Competition Assessments, the ACCC aims to provide the public 
with a better understanding of the ACCC's analysis of various markets and the 
associated merger and competition issues. It also alerts the public to 
circumstances where the ACCC’s assessment of the competition conditions in 
particular markets is changing, or is likely to change from previous assessments. 
6. 
Each Public Competition Assessment is specific to the particular transaction under 
review by the ACCC. While some transaction proposals may involve the same or 
related markets, it should not be assumed that the analysis and decision outlined 
in one Public Competition Assessment will be conclusive of the ACCC’s view in 
respect of other transaction proposals, as each matter will be considered on a 
case-by-case basis. 
7. 
Public Competition Assessments outline the ACCC’s principal reasons for forming 
views on a proposed acquisition at the time the decision was made. As such 
Public Competition Assessments may not definitively identify and explain all 
issues that the ACCC considers arise from a proposed acquisition. Further, the 
ACCC’s decisions generally involve consideration of both non-confidential and 
confidential information provided by the merger parties and market participants. In 
order to maintain the confidentiality of particular information, Public Competition 
Assessments do not contain any confidential information or its sources. 
The parties 
The acquirer: Woolworths Limited and Lowe's Companies Inc (Joint 
Venture) 
8. 
Woolworths Limited (Woolworths) is an Australian and New Zealand retailer. Its 
operations include the Woolworths and Safeway supermarkets, the Big W chain of 
discount department stores and petrol and liquor retail chains.  
9. 
Lowe's Companies Inc (Lowe’s) is a US-based retailer of hardware, building 
supplies, and home improvement products. Lowe's operates over 1,600 stores 
throughout the United States and Canada.  
10. On 25 August 2009, Woolworths announced the formation of a joint venture with 
Lowe’s in Australia (the Joint Venture) 
11. The Joint Venture’s businesses include Danks Holdings Pty Limited (Danks) and 
Masters Home Improvement Australia Pty Ltd (Masters). 
12. Danks is an Australian wholesaler of hardware products and related services. 
Danks’ principal business is the wholesale distribution of hardware, building 
supplies, home improvement products and related services to independently 
owned and operated hardware retailers including Danks’ member stores and other 
non-affiliated independent stores. Danks’ members operate stores under the 
banners of “Home Timber and Hardware”, “Thrifty Link Hardware” and “Plants 
Plus Garden Centres.” In addition to supplying products at the wholesale level, 
Danks makes recommendations to its members regarding product pricing and 
retail strategies, marketing and promotional services.  
13. The Joint Venture also owns and operates “Masters” stores, a recent multi-
category entrant into the retail hardware, building supplies, and home 
improvement sector in Australia. At the time of the ACCC’s decision, Masters had 


 
Page 3 of 16 
opened eight stores in Australia and was in the process of opening a number of 
further Masters stores.1 
14. The Joint Venture planned to open a Masters store at 25-51 Learmonth Road, 
Wendouree, Victoria in mid to late 2013 (the Masters Ballarat Store) irrespective 
of the proposed acquisition.2   
The target: G Gay & Co 
15. G Gay and Co comprises a group of companies and assets that are privately co-
owned and managed by brothers David Gay and Ross Gay. 
16. The three stores owned by G Gay & Co that were the subject of the proposed 
acquisition consist of the following three multi-category retail stores in Ballarat, 
which sell a wide range of hardware, building supplies and home improvement 
products to trade and non-trade customers:  
 
Home Timber and Hardware Ballarat, located at 127 Gillies Street, Ballarat; 
 
Home Timber and Hardware Wendouree, located at 801 Howitt Street, 
Wendouree; and 
 
Ballarat Building Suppliers, located at 117 Main Road, Ballarat East,  
(G Gay & Co Stores).  
17. The G Gay & Co Stores operate as part of the Home Timber and Hardware 
banner group. This means that the G Gay & Co Stores pay membership fees to 
Danks, which is owned by the Joint Venture, in order to adopt the Home Timber 
and Hardware brand, marketing materials and promotions. The G Gay & Co 
Stores offer products advertised in the Home Timber and Hardware marketing 
materials at or below the advertised prices. Danks also makes recommendations 
to the G Gay & Co Stores (and other members of the banner group) regarding the 
product ranges to stock and the prices to offer. The G Gay & Co Stores also 
acquire a large proportion of products at the wholesale level from Danks, although 
they also acquire significant volumes of products from wholesalers other than 
Danks or directly from manufacturers.  
Industry Background 
Types of products 
18. Hardware, building supplies and home improvement products supplied in the 
Ballarat area generally fall into a range of product categories, including for 
illustrative purposes: 
i.     tools and hardware  
ii.    bathroom, laundry, and kitchen materials  
iii.   plumbing supplies  
iv.   paint, homewares, and decor  
v.    garden supplies and watering equipment 
                                                 
1 At the date of publication of this Public Competition Assessment, Masters had 29 stores in 
operation in Australia.  
2 The Masters Ballarat Store opened in August 2013. 


 
Page 4 of 16 
vi.   timber and building supplies  
vii.  lighting and electrical  
viii. outdoor living (furniture, BBQs, play equipment, pool and spa care) 
ix.   flooring  
x.    storage and organisation 
xi.   window furnishing.  
19. Within each category there are a number of different products. Within each 
product category there are a number of different product brands. There are also a 
number of models within a particular product brand which are differentiated on the 
basis of particular product attributes. 
Types of customers 
20. Market inquiries indicated that customers acquire hardware, building supplies and 
home improvement products for different purposes:    
 
Trade customers – typically purchase hardware, building supplies and 
home improvement products primarily for use in a business, such as to 
complete construction, renovation or other projects for which they have 
been employed; and  
 
non-trade customers – typically purchase hardware, building supplies and 
home improvement products for personal or domestic use, primarily for “do-
it-yourself” (DIY) projects.  
21. There is substantial overlap between the products acquired by trade customers 
and those acquired by non-trade customers.  
22. Trade customers range in size from individual tradespeople, small and medium 
sized locally based trades businesses or home building businesses, and large 
commercial and residential construction companies which operate over a wide 
geographic area. 
23. Both trade and non-trade customers primarily purchase these products from retail 
outlets.  These are described in more detail in the Market Definition section. 
Multi-category retailers in the Ballarat area 
24. Multi-category retailers of hardware, building supplies and home improvement 
products tend to stock a large number of product categories, but within any 
product category they tend to have a smaller number of brands (and within a 
particular brand, they have a smaller number of models) compared with a 
specialist retailer. 
25. At the time of the ACCC’s decision, Bunnings was the largest multi-category 
retailer of hardware, building supplies and home improvement products in the 
Ballarat area, followed by G Gay & Co Stores which was then Bunnings’ closest 
competitor and the second largest multi-category store in Ballarat.  Dahlsens also 
provided a multi-category product offer.3  The planned Masters Ballarat Store, 
once opened, was to be a large multi-category retailer of hardware, building 
                                                 
3 But see the discussion on Dahlsens below. 


 
Page 5 of 16 
supplies, and home improvement products, and would compete with the above 
retailers. 
Bunnings 
26. Bunnings is a multi-category retailer of hardware, building supplies, and home 
improvement products, operating a number of large and small format stores in 
Australia.4 
27. In the Ballarat area, Bunnings has two stores: 
 
Bunnings Warehouse, a multi-category hardware, building supplies, and 
home improvement store with trade and non-trade offers located at 306 – 
312 Creswick Road, Ballarat; and 
 
Bunnings Trade Centre, a trade outlet located at 66 Warringa Drive, 
Mitchell Park.    
Dahlsens 
28. Dahlsens is a family-owned business which comprises a number of medium to 
large format multi-category stores retailing hardware, building supplies, and home 
improvement products catering to trade and non-trade customers at 18 locations 
in Victoria and New South Wales at the time of the ACCC’s review. 
29. Dahlsens operated a multi-category hardware, building supplies, and home 
improvement store with trade and non-trade offers located at 63 Albert Street, 
Sebastopol, Ballarat. Based on information available to the ACCC during the 
course of its review, the ACCC considered it unlikely that Dahlsens would impose 
an effective competitive constraint on Bunnings, G Gay & Co and Masters in the 
future, at least with respect to the non-trade customers.  
30. In January 2013, Dahlsens dismantled its retail shop front, and significantly 
reduced its trading hours and range of products available at its Ballarat location, 
which, in effect, substantially decreased its offering to non-trade customers.  
Small independent multi-category retailers 
31. In addition to the merger parties and market participants mentioned above, there 
are two small independent multi-category hardware, building supplies, and home 
improvement retailers in the Ballarat area: Robert Sims Supplies and Ross Street 
Building Supplies.  These stores are not members of any banner group.  Although 
they supply a range of products from more than one product category, they each 
have significantly fewer product categories and a smaller range of products within 
each category, than the G Gay & Co Stores and other multi-category stores.  
Category specialist retailers 
32. There are a number of category specialist retailers in the Ballarat area which focus 
on offering a single or small number of product categories.  For example: Reece 
                                                 
4 Bunnings is part of the Wesfarmers Group, an ASX-listed Australian company with business 
activities across a range of industries. In addition to hardware, building supplies, and home 
improvement, the Wesfarmers Group operates supermarkets, liquor stores, discount 
department stores, office supply stores, and fuel and convenience stores. 


 
Page 6 of 16 
sells a range of plumbing products, Total Tools sells a range of power tools, 
Haymes Paint sells a range of paint and painting products and Whiteheads 
Timber supplies timber and a small range of other products.   
33. These retailers generally offer a greater number of brands and models within a 
product category than the multi-category retailers. They also typically offer a 
greater number of models for a given brand of products, including a range of 
functionality and price points. This gives consumers a greater choice of products 
along a price-function-quality continuum than that which is usually available at 
multi-category retailers.  Multi-category retailers usually offer a selection of 
products at different price points within a product category, but a smaller choice of 
brands and a narrower choice within a particular brand. 
General retailers 
34. In Ballarat, retail stores such as Big W and Kmart stock a limited range of 
hardware, building supplies and home improvement products, alongside their 
offers of several other categories of retail products such as clothing, food and 
toys. The range of hardware, building supplies and home improvement products 
offered by these stores comprise a limited number of brands and models within a 
limited number of product categories.  
Wholesale suppliers 
35. Hardware, building supplies, and home improvement retailers purchase products 
from wholesalers and/or manufacturers, either directly or with the support of 
buying groups. Wholesale suppliers include Danks and Mitre 10. Buying groups 
negotiate purchases of hardware, building supplies and home improvement 
products collectively on behalf of their members, who are typically independent 
retailers with a strong customer base in their respective markets. Buying groups in 
Australia include Natbuild and HBT.  
The proposed transaction 
36. The Joint Venture proposed to acquire assets associated with the business 
operated at the three G Gay & Co Stores from G Gay & Co, including inventory, 
goodwill and intellectual property, but excluding the land and buildings on which 
the stores are located. 
Review timeline 
37. The following table outlines the timeline of key events in this matter. 
Date 
Event 
13-Feb-2012 
 
 
27-Feb-2012 
 
09-Mar-2012 
 
 
 
03-May-2012 
ACCC commenced review under the Merger Review Process 
Guidelines. 
 
Closing date for submissions from interested parties. 
 
ACCC requested further information from the merger parties. ACCC 
timeline suspended. Former proposed decision date for 
announcement of ACCC's findings of 22 March 2012 delayed. 
 
ACCC received further information from the merger parties. ACCC 


 
Page 7 of 16 
Date 
Event 
 
 
16-May-2012 
 
 
01-Jun-2012 
 
22-Jun-2012 
 
 
19-Sep-2012 
 
 
04-Oct-2012 
timeline recommenced. 
 
ACCC published a Statement of Issues outlining preliminary 
competition concerns. 
 
Closing date for submissions relating to Statement of Issues. 
 
ACCC requested further information from the merger parties. ACCC 
timeline suspended. 
 
ACCC received further information from the merger parties. ACCC 
timeline recommenced. 
 
ACCC announced it would oppose the proposed acquisition. 
Market inquiries 
38. The ACCC conducted market inquiries with a range of industry participants, 
including competitors, customers, input suppliers, industry bodies, other regulatory 
agencies and other interested parties. Submissions were sought in relation to the 
substantive competition issues. 
Statement of Issues 
39. The ACCC published a Statement of Issues on 16 May 2012 identifying a number 
of competition issues. The ACCC stated its preliminary view that the proposed 
acquisition may raise competition concerns in the retail market for the supply of 
hardware and home improvement products in the Ballarat area, with multi-
category retailers being the closest competitors of each other in this market.  
40. The Statement of Issues is available on the ACCC website (www.accc.gov.au) at 
the mergers register. 
Future with/without the proposed acquisition 
41. Section 50 of the Act prohibits mergers or acquisitions that would have the effect 
or be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. In 
assessing a proposed acquisition pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC 
considers the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future competitive 
environment if the acquisition proceeds (the “with” position) to the likely future 
competitive environment if the acquisition does not proceed (the “without” 
position) to determine whether the proposed acquisition would be likely to 
substantially lessen competition in any relevant market. 
42. The ACCC’s market inquiries indicated that even if the Joint Venture did not 
acquire the G Gay & Co Stores: 
 
The Joint Venture would still become a new entrant multi-category retailer 
of a full-range of hardware and home improvement products through its 
Masters store model competing to attract non-trade and trade customers in 
the Ballarat area. It would also continue to be a wholesaler of hardware 
products to independent retailers of hardware, building supplies, and home 


 
Page 8 of 16 
improvement products through Danks. Each of these outcomes would 
occur with or without the proposed acquisition. 
 
G Gay & Co was likely to continue to own and operate the G Gay & Co 
Stores and continue to retail a range of hardware, building supplies, and 
home improvement products to non-trade and trade customers in the 
Ballarat area. The ACCC considered that G Gay & Co would be likely to 
source products on a wholesale basis and marketing support from either 
Danks5 or another banner group or buying group.  
 
The G Gay & Co Stores and the planned Masters Ballarat Store would 
compete with each other for the retail supply of multi-category hardware, 
building supplies, and home improvement products in the Ballarat area for 
the foreseeable future. 
43. The ACCC also considered that the G Gay & Co Stores represent a means by 
which an alternative banner group or hardware chain could enter the Ballarat area 
as a competitor to other hardware chains. The proposed acquisition would remove 
this avenue for new entry which may lead to greater competition compared to the 
likely future without the proposed acquisition. 
Areas of overlap 
44. The Joint Venture planned to open the Masters Ballarat Store on Learmonth 
Road, Wendouree, a suburb of Ballarat in mid to late 2013. Upon completion of 
this store, the Joint Venture and the G Gay & Co businesses would have 
overlapped in the retail supply of a range of hardware, building supplies and home 
improvement products to consumers, comprising trade and non-trade customers, 
in the Ballarat area. Since the ACCC’s decision, the Masters Ballarat store opened 
in August 2013. 
Competition Analysis 
Market definition 
Retail distribution channels 
45. As discussed in paragraphs 18-19, there are a number of products that fall in the 
category of hardware, building supplies, and home improvement products and 
these are supplied to consumers through a number of retail distribution channels – 
multi-category retailers of various sizes, category specialist retailers, and general 
retailers.  
46. Retailers in the Ballarat area compete for customers through their total product 
and service offering. The product offering includes the number of product 
categories and the breadth and depth of brands and models within each product 
category. The service offering includes the location, format, size and opening 
hours of the store, as well as services it provides, such as specialist advice, 
delivery, value-added services such as cutting materials to size, and convenient 
                                                 
5 If the G Gay & Co Stores were to continue their association with the Danks “Home Timber and 
Hardware” banner group in the absence of the proposed acquisition, after the commencement 
of the Masters store in Ballarat, they would effectively obtain some of the wholesale supplies 
and promotional support/materials from their retail competitor.  


 
Page 9 of 16 
payment methods (e.g. trade accounts).  Different retailers put varying degrees of 
emphasis on each of these factors so as to differentiate themselves from rivals. 
The extent of differentiation across the different retail channels affects the 
closeness of competition between the different retail channels.  
47. For instance, multi-category retailers compete to attract trade and non-trade 
customers who wish to purchase multiple categories of products during a single 
shopping visit, or over a number of visits for particular repair jobs or projects.  
Multi-category retailers also give customers the option of browsing and selecting 
from other product categories in addition to the ones they initially came to shop 
for, much like a supermarket.  
48. Multi-category hardware, building supplies and home improvement retailers are 
able to reduce travel and search costs for those customers who wish to purchase 
products from a number of related product categories compared with the option of 
making multiple trips to numerous single-category or general retailers. They also 
offer efficiencies in payment terms which may be particularly attractive to trade 
customers who purchase from multiple product categories.     
49. In contrast, customers of category specialists typically have a very specific or 
narrow purpose for their shopping trip and value the ability to compare a wide 
range of brands and models within a brand for a particular product category. 
Category specialist retailers meet the needs of these types of customers by 
efficiently supplying a wider choice of brands and models within a product 
category than multi-category retailers.  
50. On the other hand, general retailers focus on customers who are doing a multi-
purpose shopping trip and value the ability to purchase a number of unrelated 
products during that trip.  For example, a customer may purchase some nails 
while also shopping for clothing or toys.  The key benefit offered by these general 
retailers is the number of unrelated product categories rather than the number of 
related product categories or the breadth or depth of the offering within a 
particular category, with many of the products offered being at the “entry level” of 
functionality. 
51. In light of these issues, the ACCC found that customers who value the option of 
shopping from multiple product categories in one retail store, were not likely to 
switch, in significant numbers, to shopping from individual category specialist or 
general retailers in response to an increase in prices in the multi-category stores 
post-acquisition. The ACCC’s market inquiries also indicated that, in the event of 
an increase in prices post-acquisition, category specialists in Ballarat were 
unlikely, in the foreseeable future, to expand their product range, obtain the 
relevant retailing expertise and increase store size in a manner to supply multiple 
product categories to an extent that would competitively constrain the incumbent 
multi-category retailers.  
52. Market inquiries also indicated that the multi-category retailers in Ballarat primarily 
and most frequently focus on the offerings of other multi-category retailers when 
they determine their product ranges and customer service offerings, set prices for 
the items they stock, and subsequently reduce prices of these products pursuant 
to 'price-beating policies’, often called ‘price guarantees’. While multi-category 
hardware retailers check and respond to the prices of hardware, building supplies 
and home improvement products offered by category specialist and general 


 
Page 10 of 16 
retailers, this usually is limited to products that are identical (for instance, their 
brand and size) to the ones stocked in their own stores. 
53. Therefore the ACCC considered that the extent of differentiation between the 
retail offering of multi-category, specialist and general retailers was such that 
specialist and general retailers were not a sufficiently close demand side or supply 
side substitute to multi-category retailers to be included in the relevant product 
market.6 
Customer types 
54. The ACCC considered whether there are separate customer markets for retail 
sales of hardware and home improvement products to trade and non-trade 
customers.  
55. Industry participants drew a distinction between trade and non-trade customers 
based on their different purposes and methods of payment for purchases of 
hardware, building supplies and home improvement products. For example, some 
customers purchase these products for use in a business through a credit account 
held with the store, while others purchase them for domestic or personal use using 
cash or personal credit cards. 
56. The preferences and expectations of trade and non-trade customers with regard 
to a retailer’s product range and service offerings also vary and depend, in part, 
on the purpose of the customer’s shopping occasion. For example a customer’s 
preferences may vary depending on whether that customer is shopping for a few 
items to make DIY repairs or improvements in their home, to top-up supplies or is 
ordering bulk products for a project. 
57. In general terms, non-trade customers value the ability to shop from a number of 
product categories at competitive prices with a degree of personalised service.  
While many tradespeople also value the ability to purchase a range of products 
from one store, market inquiries revealed that trade customers are time-sensitive, 
valuing consistently prompt advice and service, the ability to obtain a trade 
account or store credit, and to obtain reliable supply and delivery of products to 
worksites.   
58. Notwithstanding these differences, market inquiries revealed there was a 
significant degree of overlap in the products that are purchased by trade and non-
trade customers, and that most retailers, including the merger parties, compete to 
attract both trade and non-trade customers by offering product ranges, customer 
service and prices which suit both categories of customers, typically within the 
same store location.  
59. Therefore, the ACCC’s view was that these two categories of customers were not 
sufficiently differentiated to be in separate markets for the purpose of this 
particular competition analysis. 
                                                 
6 This finding differs from the Statement of Issues, in which the ACCC indicated that its 
preliminary view was that the relevant market was the retail supply of hardware and home 
improvement products, with multi-category retailers being the closest competitors of each 
other. 


 
Page 11 of 16 
Geographic dimension 
60. The ACCC found that non-trade and trade customers value the convenience of 
retail stores that are located close to their homes and/or places of work because 
purchases are often regular and, especially for non-trade customers, low-value 
relative to transport and other transaction costs. The ACCC found that the vast 
majority of trade and non-trade customers of hardware, building supplies and 
home improvement products in the Ballarat area were unlikely to travel outside the 
Ballarat area for such products in response to competition effects arising from the 
proposed acquisition.  
61. Market inquiries indicated that deliveries of hardware, building supplies and home 
improvement products are sometimes made into the Ballarat area by suppliers 
located outside the Ballarat area, such as from Melbourne and Geelong.  These 
deliveries are made to trade customers. However, market inquiries revealed that 
such deliveries are infrequent due to distance and delivery costs. In addition, the 
ACCC found that supply from outside the Ballarat area was often the result of a 
supply contract with a large trade customer that covered a broader area, for 
example the state of Victoria, of which the Ballarat area was one part.  
62. The ACCC formed the view that it would be unlikely that hardware, building 
supplies and home improvement retailers located outside the Ballarat area would 
increase supply into the Ballarat area in response to competition effects arising 
from the proposed acquisition, such that these retailers would provide a strong 
competitive constraint.  
63. The ACCC recognised that large chains, including Bunnings and Masters, and 
banner groups, including Home Timber and Hardware (the banner group to which 
the G Gay & Co stores belong) also compete with each other and other retail 
chains on a broader geographic basis, given that many price and product offers of 
competing retail chains are standardised across multiple geographic areas 
(‘global offers’). The ACCC considered the effect of this constraint when 
assessing the proposed acquisition.  The ACCC found that while aspects of 
competing chains’ global offers are taken into account by retailers in Ballarat, 
locally-based offers are important to the competitive process.  
64. Therefore, consistent with the ACCC’s approach in previous matters, the ACCC 
considered that a local retail market surrounding the target stores was the relevant 
market in which to consider the likely competition effects arising from the 
proposed acquisition. In previous competition analyses in the hardware industry, 
the ACCC has indicated that it considers each retail market on a case-by-case 
basis, closely examining competition within the 5km radius of the target and 
including participants up to 10km away where local circumstances meant this was 
appropriate.   
65. The exact size of the geographic market (in km distance) was not determinative of 
the competition analysis in this matter. Market inquiries indicated that customers in 
regional areas such as those surrounding Ballarat would travel up to 
approximately 20- 30 kilometres specifically to shop at a hardware, building 
supplies, and home improvement store; while retailers would occasionally deliver 
to trade customers’ work sites up to 20-30 kilometres from their retail store. The 
ACCC therefore evaluated the level of competitive constraint imposed by multi-
category retailers located within 20-30km of the G Gay & Co Stores, as retailers 
within this distance would represent geographic substitutes for the G Gay & Co 


 
Page 12 of 16 
Stores. Noting that the nearest multi-category hardware store outside of Ballarat is 
almost 50 kilometres away, the ACCC considered that the relevant geographic 
market in which to consider the competition effects of the proposed acquisition 
was the greater Ballarat area. 
Conclusion on retail markets7 
66. The ACCC considered that the competitive effects of the proposed acquisition 
should be assessed in the context of the retail market for the supply of multi-
category hardware, building supplies and home improvement products in the 
Ballarat area.8   
Market concentration 
67. The ACCC formed the view that the proposed acquisition would increase market 
concentration and remove a close and effective competitive constraint on other 
multi-category retailers in the Ballarat area in the foreseeable future. 
68. At the time of the ACCC’s decision, there were two large multi-category retailers in 
the Ballarat Area supplying trade and non-trade customers: Bunnings and G Gay 
& Co. 
69. Bunnings was the largest multi-category retailer in the Ballarat area, with two 
stores supplying a large range of hardware, building supplies and home 
improvement products, and a range of customer services, to both trade and non-
trade customers. 
70. After Bunnings, the next largest multi-category retailer was G Gay and Co, 
operated as a single business across the three G Gay & Co Stores in Ballarat, 
supplying hardware, building supplies and home improvement products and 
services to trade and non-trade customers from each of these retail sites. 
71. At that time, the Masters Ballarat Store was scheduled to open in mid to late 2013, 
irrespective of whether the proposed acquisition proceeded.   
72. Bunnings, the G Gay & Co Stores were and, with the planned Masters Ballarat 
Store, would be the only multi-category retailers supplying a large range of 
hardware, building supplies and home improvement products and services to 
trade and non-trade customers in the Ballarat area.  
73. As discussed above, the ACCC did not consider that it was likely that Dahlsens in 
Ballarat would offer an effective competitive constraint on these retailers.  
Dahlsens now only offers products to trade customers. As explained in paragraph 
30, the ACCC considers that this has significantly diminished the level of 
competitive constraint that Dahlsens offers in the relevant market as it no longer 
offers a store front, product range, opening hours and service levels that would 
appeal to the large non-trade section of the relevant market. 
                                                 
7 The relevant markets identified above are the result of an assessment applying a purposive 
approach. Relevant markets in the same or similar industries may differ between various 
merger reviews, based on case-specific information regarding the substitutability of products 
and their geographic locations. 
8 This refers to the supply of a range of product categories that are within the hardware, 
building supplies and home improvement definition set out above.  


 
Page 13 of 16 
74. In the Ballarat area, small independent multi-category hardware retailers are: 
 
Robert Sim Building Supplies, a hardware, building supplies, and home 
improvement store with trade and non-trade offers located at 102 Humffray 
Street, South Ballarat; and 
 
Ross Street Building Supplies, a hardware, building supplies, and home 
improvement store with trade and non-trade offers located at 3 Ross Street, 
Ballarat.  
75. For the reasons outlined at paragraph 80, the ACCC concluded that the small 
independent multi-category hardware retailers would not be likely to competitively 
constrain the acquirer post-acquisition.  
76. Therefore, the ACCC concluded that the proposed acquisition would reduce the 
number of large multi-category retailers in the Ballarat area in the future, from 
three to two.  
Removal of a vigorous and effective competitor 
G Gay & Co is a vigorous and effective competitor 
77. Information and documents obtained by the ACCC in the course of its review 
indicated that G Gay & Co is a vigorous and effective competitor in the relevant 
market. The ACCC considered that G Gay & Co would be likely to continue to be 
a vigorous and effective competitor in the relevant market in the likely future 
without the proposed acquisition. 
78. The ACCC considered that being a member of the ‘Home Timber and Hardware’ 
banner group assists the G Gay & Co Stores by providing the buying power and 
advertising, promotional and branding support necessary to compete effectively 
with Bunnings and the new Masters Ballarat Store.  That being the case, the 
ACCC also noted that membership with the ‘Home Timber and Hardware’ banner 
group allows the G Gay & Co Stores the autonomy to set prices, product offerings 
and service levels independently of, or alongside of the banner group offer. 
Members are also able to obtain wholesale supply from sources other than Danks. 
The ACCC noted that the G Gay & Co Stores, though currently supplied by the 
Joint Venture, have other wholesale supply options to enable them to compete at 
the retail level. 
79. The ACCC found that the G Gay & Co Stores have a strong brand name and are 
highly competitive for trade and non-trade customers in the Ballarat area due to 
their prices, product range, promotions, service and convenient locations. In 
particular: 
 
Product offering – the G Gay & Co Stores stock a wide range of 
hardware, building supplies, and home improvement products. While a 
large proportion of these are sourced from Danks, G Gay & Co also 
sources significant volumes of products from other suppliers, some of 
which are not available from Danks.    
 
Price – the G Gay & Co Stores’ price offering to trade and non-trade 
customers comprises a combination of prices recommended by Danks to 
its ‘Home Timber and Hardware’ banner group members and price 


 
Page 14 of 16 
offerings determined independently by G Gay & Co (for products sourced 
from Danks or other suppliers).   
The ACCC found that competitors in the Ballarat area respond to the prices 
offered by the G Gay & Co Stores by reducing their prices, either by 
matching and then beating the prices offered by the G Gay & Co Stores 
upon requests by customers, or through more permanent price reductions. 
 
Service – market inquiries indicated that the G Gay & Co Stores have a 
strong reputation for providing a superior level of service to trade 
customers (especially) and non-trade customers in the relevant market, 
including reliable and timely delivery, sourcing products to meet specific 
customer requirements, three well-positioned store locations in the Ballarat 
area, convenient opening hours, knowledgeable staff, loyalty programs and 
accounts for trade customers.  
 
Promotional activity – the G Gay & Co Stores’ primary form of 
promotional activity is through participation in ‘Home Timber and 
Hardware’ promotions, including monthly catalogues. G Gay & Co also 
independently arranges promotions, such as radio advertisements and in-
store discounts for hardware, building supplies, and home improvement 
products offered by the G Gay & Co Stores.  
Market inquiries also revealed that trade and non-trade customers in the 
Ballarat area associate strongly with the G Gay & Co brand, as distinct 
from the Home Timber and Hardware brand. 
 
Convenient locations – market inquiries indicated that the three G Gay & 
Co Stores are conveniently located and could be easily accessed by trade 
and non-trade customers located in the Ballarat area. 
80. The ACCC’s market inquiries revealed that competitors in the Ballarat area 
respond to competition from the G Gay & Co Stores, and that G Gay and Co is the 
closest competitor to Bunnings in Ballarat.  
81. In the absence of the proposed acquisition, upon the opening of the Masters 
Ballarat Store, there would be a significant overlap between the G Gay & Co 
Stores and Masters in terms of product range and customer types. 
82. With Masters entering the market, G Gay & Co and Bunnings would have 
incentives to continue to compete to attract both non-trade and trade customers 
through competitive pricing, service and product offerings. These interactions 
would be significant for competition in the relevant market in the likely future 
without the proposed acquisition.  
Likely effects of the removal of G Gay & Co as an independent competitor 
83. Were the proposed acquisition to proceed, the Home Timber and Hardware brand 
offering would likely have continued, but an independent offering from G Gay & 
Co would not.  However, with the acquisition, the Joint Venture would be likely to 
operate the G Gay & Co Stores and the Masters Ballarat Store in a way that would 
allow it to maximise profit across both businesses. The Joint Venture would not 
have an incentive for the G Gay & Co Stores to compete, aggressively or 
otherwise, with the new Masters Ballarat Store, and vice versa. 


 
Page 15 of 16 
84. The competition lost as a result of the proposed acquisition would not be likely to 
be replaced by competition between Bunnings and Masters, or by smaller 
participants in the market. 
85. The ACCC considered that the small multi-category retailers would not be likely to 
impose a strong competitive constraint in the market post-acquisition. These 
retailers have much smaller product ranges, and are not members of a retail 
chain. Therefore, the ACCC considered that they would be unlikely to offer and 
advertise product ranges, prices and promotions that would competitively 
constrain the larger multi-category retailers across a wide range of their products 
and for all types of customers. While some of these competitors are members of 
buying groups, their product and service offerings, as well as their retail sites, 
would need to be substantially expanded in order to effectively constrain the total 
product offerings of the main multi-category retailers.  
Likelihood of new entry or expansion by existing competitors 
86. The ACCC assessed the likelihood of new entry or expansion in the relevant 
market and whether any such entry or expansion would act as a sufficient 
constraint on the Joint Venture and Bunnings to alleviate the ACCC’s competition 
concerns in relation to the proposed acquisition.  
87. The ACCC’s market inquiries indicated that the entry of a new, large-scale 
competitive independent multi-category offering is unlikely.   
88. The availability of sites for retail stores in Ballarat is unlikely to be a critical barrier 
to entry. However, while Ballarat is a growing regional area, the ACCC considered 
that the entry of another multi-category hardware, building supplies and home 
improvement product retailer, or expansion by a currently limited range incumbent 
(such as an existing small multi-category or specialist retailer), is unlikely in the 
foreseeable future, given that Bunnings (two stores), G Gay & Co (three stores), 
Masters (one store from August 2013) and Dahlsens (albeit one trade only store) 
are already present in the Ballarat area.  
89. In addition, the incumbents’ price guarantees increase the risk and thus may deter 
entry that may otherwise be profitable.  Even if the new entrant offered 
significantly lower prices, given the price guarantees, there would be a significant 
risk that the new entrant would not achieve sufficient volume of profitable sales to 
make entry worthwhile. Therefore, the presence of these stores is likely to 
constitute a substantial barrier to entry or expansion. 
90. The ACCC formed the view that it would be unlikely for there to be entry of a 
competitive multi-category hardware, building supplies and home improvement 
retail offering in the Ballarat area of a sufficient scale and in a sufficiently timely 
manner to replace the competition lost from G Gay & Co stores so as to prevent a 
substantial lessening of competition was unlikely. 
Conclusion 
91. The ACCC found that the proposed acquisition would likely result in the removal 
of a vigorous and effective competitor in the retail market for the supply of multi-
category hardware, building supplies, and home improvement products to trade 
and non-trade customers in the Ballarat area. The ACCC considered that the 


 
Page 16 of 16 
competitive constraint imposed by G Gay and Co in the relevant market was not 
likely to be replaced by existing competitors or by the threat of new entry. 
92. On the basis of the above, the ACCC decided that the proposed acquisition would 
be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in the market, in 
contravention of section 50 of the Act.  
