 
 
 
 
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
tel: (02) 6243 1368 
mergers@accc.gov.au
www.accc.gov.au
Our ref: 
IM-72666 
 
4 September 2024 
Dear Interested Party 
Re: ACCC seeking your views: Accolade Wine’s proposed acquisition of Pernod 
Ricard’s Wine Business 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
Australian Wine HoldCo Limited's (AWHL) proposed acquisition, through its indirectly held 
subsidiary Accolade Wines Australia Limited (Accolade), of the Australian wine businesses 
of Pernod Ricard SA (Pernod Ricard) which are currently operated by Pernod Ricard 
Winemakers Pty Ltd (PRW) (the Proposed Acquisition). 
Accolade and PRW both produce and sell wine in Australia. Accolade’s key brands include 
Berri Estates, Grant Burge, Petaluma, Hardys and St Hallett. With the acquisition, Accolade 
would acquire a portfolio of wine brands including Jacob’s Creek, St Hugo, Church Road, 
Stoneleigh and Campo Viejo. More information about the Proposed Acquisition can be 
found at Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigation will focus on the impact of competition. In particular, we are 
seeking your views on: 
• 
the likely impact on prices and/or quality in markets for the wholesale supply of 
wine, 
• 
the likely impact on prices paid in acquisition markets for wine grapes and/or bulk 
wine, and 
• 
whether the proposed acquisition would give Accolade the ability and incentive to 
foreclose rival winemakers access to processing, bottling and/or packaging 
services impacting competition in the supply of wine. 
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B. 
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the Proposed Acquisition is in section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
Please provide your response by 18 September 2024 via email with the title: Submission re: 
Accolade/Pernod Ricard. If you require more time to respond, please let us know. 
If you would like to arrange a time to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any 
questions about this letter, please contact mergers@accc.gov.au. 


 
2 
 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public Mergers 
Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC treats sensitive information it receives during a merger review as confidential, 
and will not publish your submission. We will not disclose submissions to third parties 
(except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of 
information legislation or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the 
Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, we will notify you in advance where possible so that you have an opportunity 
to be heard. Therefore please clearly indicate if any information you provide is confidential. 
Our Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on 
confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
 
 
Morag Bond 
General Manager 
Merger Investigations Branch 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
3 
 
Attachment A – Overview of the merger parties and the Proposed 
Acquisition 
 
The Proposed Acquisition 
AWHL, through its indirectly held subsidiary Accolade (and other members of the 
group), proposes to acquire the ‘BrandCo’ component of Pernod Ricard’s wine 
businesses in Australia, New Zealand, and Spain (together, the BrandCo Businesses) 
through the acquisition of: 
• 
certain assets from PRW and Pernod Ricard Winemakers New Zealand 
Limited (PRW NZ) pursuant to a business and asset sale agreement; and 
• 
the shares in Pernod Ricard Wines Spain from Pernod Ricard Espana SA 
pursuant to a share sale agreement.  
The BrandCo Businesses own and manage a portfolio of internationally recognised 
Australian, New Zealand and Spanish wines including Jacob’s Creek, St Hugo, Church 
Road, Stoneleigh and Campo Viejo.  
Pernod Ricard’s (and its subsidiaries’) spirits, champagne, ‘Ready-to-Drink’ products 
and PRW’s Sparkling wine product, Mumm Tasmania (along with PRW NZ’s Mumm 
Marlborough and Mumm Central Otago) are excluded from the Proposed Acquisition.  
Accolade 
Accolade is an Australian wine business with headquarters in South Australia. It is an 
indirect subsidiary of AWHL, which is an entity owned by a consortium of institutional 
investors.  
Accolade acquires wine grapes and produces and supplies wine. Its activities include 
processing, bottling, packaging sales, marketing and distribution. Accolade primarily 
focuses on producing and supplying what it describes as commercial and masstige 
wines, which it classes as wines that typically retail for less than 20 Australian 
Dollars. Accolade’s key brands include Berri Estates, Grant Burge, Petaluma, Hardys 
and St Hallett.  
Pernod Ricard  
Pernod Ricard is an international wine and spirits producer and wholesaler. Through 
its subsidiaries including PRW, it offers wine brands including Campo Viejo, 
Stoneleigh and Jacob’s Creek.  
In Australia, PRW produces and acquires wine grapes, and sells and produces wine. 
In addition to its winemaking business, PRW also markets, distributes and sells 
Pernod Ricard’s (and its subsidiaries) champagne, spirits and ‘Ready-to-Drink’ 
products in Australia, although these are not part of the Proposed Acquisition. 
 
 


 
4 
 
 
 
Attachment B – List of questions 
The ACCC seeks your views on the questions in this attachment. The more information 
we have, the better we can assess the impact of the Proposed Acquisition. However, if 
you are unsure of any questions, or do not have specific knowledge about some of the 
questions, you can leave them blank. You can also include any other information you 
think is relevant.   
Where possible, provide specific examples to support your views. 
Overview of interest in Proposed Acquisition 
1. Please provide a brief description of your business or organisation.  
2. Outline the reasons for your interest in the Proposed Acquisition, including any 
commercial relationship/s with Accolade and/or Pernod Ricard. If applicable, 
please identify the specific product(s) and/or service(s) that you supply to, 
acquire from, or compete with Accolade and/or Pernod Ricard to provide.  
Relevant markets 
3. The ACCC is currently considering the likely competitive effects of the Proposed 
Acquisition in potential markets for: 
• 
the acquisition of warm climate wine grapes (with a particular focus on the 
Riverland, Murray Valley, and Riverina regions), 
• 
the acquisition of cool climate wine grapes (with a particular focus on the 
Adelaide Hills, Barossa Valley, Coonawarra, Eden Valley, Langhorne Creek, 
Padthaway and Wrattonbully regions), 
• 
the supply of wine processing services to winemakers in South-Eastern 
Australia, 
• 
the supply of wine bottling and packaging services to winemakers in 
Australia, and 
• 
the wholesale supply of wine to various customers including wine retailers. 
The ACCC seeks your views on whether the above markets, including the 
geographic boundaries set out above, would help identify any competition 
concerns that may arise from the Proposed Acquisition.  
Questions for wine grape growers 
4. On what basis do grape growers compete with one another to sell their grapes to 
winemakers? 


 
5 
 
5. The parties submit that the following areas are relevant to the Proposed 
Acquisition: 
• 
for ‘warm climate’ grapes: the Riverland, Murray Valley and Riverina 
regions combined, and 
• 
for ‘cool climate’ grapes: each of the Adelaide Hills, Barossa Valley, 
Coonawarra, Eden Valley, Langhorne Creek, Padthaway and Wrattonbully 
regions separately. 
Given these submissions, please comment on the following:  
a. whether grapes grown in each of the ‘warm climate’ regions identified are 
substitutable for grapes grown in another 
b. whether grapes grown in each of the ‘cool climate’ regions identified are 
substitutable for one another 
c. whether ‘cool climate’ and ‘warm climate’ grapes are substitutable for one 
another, and 
d. whether there are limitations as to how far wine grapes can travel from a 
vineyard to a processing facility. 
6. Can grape growers easily switch and supply different acquirers/wine producers? 
Do ongoing contractual arrangements impact the ability to switch? 
7. Please comment on the significance of the volumes of grapes or bulk wine 
acquired by Accolade and/or PRW? Please specify if your answer differs by the 
‘warm climate’ and ‘cool climate’ regions identified above. 
8. In your view, would the Proposed Acquisition be likely to lessen competition 
between purchasers of wine grapes? 
Questions for winemakers 
9. Under which circumstances would you typically source the following services 
from other parties such as Accolade or PRW: 
a. wine processing services, and/or 
b. packaging and bottling services. 
10. Apart from Accolade and PRW, are there other businesses that are able to 
provide each of the services listed above? Does this vary from region to region 
(for example, it is understood both parties own processing facilities in the 
Barossa Valley)? 
11. What factors would you take into consideration when choosing a provider for 
each of the services listed in item 9? Please provide reasons for your answer. 


 
6 
 
12. In your view, would the Proposed Acquisition be likely to lessen competition in 
any potential market for the supply of either: 
a. wine processing services, or 
b. packaging and bottling services? 
Questions for distributors and retailers of wine 
13. Would you consider that there are any “must-stock” brands of wine for an alcohol 
retailer or distributor? Are suppliers with a broad portfolio of wine brands seen to 
be particularly important for alcohol retailers? 
14. Would you consider the wholesale supply of wine to be segmented by either price 
point or product type? If so, please explain the relevant segments and in your 
view, who would be the most prominent suppliers in each of these segments? 
15. Who do you consider to be Accolade and PRW’s closest competitors in the 
wholesale supply of wine? 
16. What is the nature of the supply agreements in the wholesale supply of wine? For 
example, is there a typical term length, and are prices locked in at the start of the 
contract?  
17. Do you think the Proposed Acquisition would be likely to lessen competition for 
the wholesale supply of wine? 
Additional information 
18. Please provide any additional information or comments that you consider relevant to 
the ACCC’s consideration of the Proposed Acquisition. 
 
 
