 
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
tel: (02) 6243 1368 
mergers@accc.gov.au
www.accc.gov.au
Our ref: 
IM-71397 
Contact officer: 
Sam Campbell / Annabel Garrard  
Contact phone: 
03 9290 1870 / 02 9102 4028 
Date 21 September 2021 
Dear Interested Party 
Request for submissions: Lion-Beer, Spirits & Wine Pty Ltd’s proposed 
acquisition of Fermentum Pty Ltd  
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
the proposed acquisition of Fermentum Pty Ltd (Fermentum) by Lion-Beer, Spirits & Wine 
Pty Ltd (Lion) (the proposed acquisition). 
Fermentum and Lion manufacture and distribute, or have interests in companies which 
manufacture and distribute, a range of alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages including 
beer, cider, alcoholic seltzer and kombucha. Further details are provided at Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact on competition. In particular, we are 
seeking your views on: 
 
whether Lion and Fermentum compete closely for the supply of beer 
 
the likely impact of the proposed acquisition on the price or service levels for the 
supply of beer, and 
 
the availability of alternatives to customers and the ability of these alternatives to 
expand. 
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
Please provide your response by 5 October 2021 via email with the title: Submission re: 
Lion / Fermentum - attention Sam Campbell / Annabel Garrard. If you require more time to 
respond, please let us know. 


If you would like to arrange a time to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any 
questions about this letter, please contact Sam Campbell on 03 9290 1870 or Annabel 
Garrard on 02 9102 4028. 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public 
Mergers Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC treats sensitive information it receives during a merger review as confidential, 
and will not publish your submission. We will not disclose submissions to third parties 
(except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of 
information legislation or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the 
Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, we will notify you in advance where possible so that you have an opportunity to 
be heard. Therefore please clearly indicate if any information you provide is confidential. 
Our Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on 
confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
Daniel McCracken-Hewson 
General Manager  
Merger Investigations  
 
 
 
 


Attachment A 
 
 
The proposed acquisition  
Lion proposes to acquire 100% of the issued securities of Fermentum. 
 
The parties primarily overlap in the supply of beer. 
 
Lion 
Lion is a global beverage business that manufactures and distributes alcoholic and non-
alcoholic drinks across Australia, New Zealand, the United States and the United Kingdom. 
Lion is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Japan-based food and beverage company, Kirin 
Holdings Company Limited.  
Lion owns and operates 10 breweries in Australia and its Australian beverage portfolio 
consists of:  
 
Beer – XXXX, Tooheys, Iron Jack, Furphy, Little Creatures, Hahn, James Squire, 
Byron Bay, James Boag, Kirin, Emu, Swan Draught, West End Draught, Kosciusko 
Pale Ale, White Rabbit, Bevy Brewing Co, Malt Shovel Brewer, Eumundi, Tiny 
Mountain, Heineken, Guinness, Birra Morretti, Kilkenny, Panhead, Brooklyn and 
Voodoo Ranger.  
 
Cider – Tooheys 5 Seeds, James Squire Orchard Crush, Little Creatures 
Pipsqueak. 
 
Alcoholic Seltzer – White Claw Hard Seltzer. 
Lion also has shareholdings in gin company Four Pillars (50%) and non-alcoholic beverage 
companies Remedy Drinks (49%) (kombucha) and Schibello Coffee (50%). 
Fermentum 
Fermentum manufactures and distributes a range of alcoholic beverages, including its 
flagship brand Stone & Wood. Headquartered in Byron Bay, New South Wales, 
Fermentum’s primary brewery operation is located in Murwillumbah, New South Wales. It 
also owns and operates smaller breweries in Byron Bay, Brisbane and Melbourne.  
Fermentum’s beverage portfolio consists of: 
 
Beer – Stone & Wood, Fixation, Two Birds, Forest for the Trees. 
 
Cider – Granite Belt Treehouse Cider. 
 
Alcoholic seltzer – Sunly Seltzer. 
 
Ginger Beer – Little Dragon Ginger Beer. 
 
Kombucha – Kombucha Brewing Co.  


 
Attachment B 
1. Please provide a brief description of your business or organisation and explain 
your interest in the proposed acquisition, including any commercial relationship(s) 
with Lion or Fermentum. 
2. Please provide your views on how beer is marketed, supplied and consumed in 
Australia. We are particularly interested in: 
a. whether there are different and distinct categories of beer (for example 
whether craft beer is distinct from classic or premium beer) and, if so:  
i. what are the different characteristics of beers in each category that 
make them distinct from beers in other categories? You may wish 
to comment on factors such as price, taste, packaging design, 
marketing or ownership. 
ii. how likely are consumers to switch between different categories of 
beer and does this differ between on-premise (keg) and off-
premise (packaged) beer? 
iii. how easily can manufacturers and suppliers of beer switch 
between supply of different beer categories? 
b. whether Fermentum has a stronger presence in certain states or regions 
of Australia and if so, why? 
3. How closely do Lion and Fermentum compete with each other in the supply of 
beer?  
a. Please comment on whether there is anything about the products 
supplied by Lion and Fermentum that make them close competitors. 
b. Please identify the other close competitors to Lion and Fermentum and 
comment on whether they are likely to be strong competitors to a 
combined Lion and Fermentum.    
4. The ACCC understands that Fermentum has plans to expand, including through 
the construction of a new brewery in Murwillumbah, but would need to raise 
capital to do so. If the merger did not go ahead, what impact (if any) do you 
consider Fermentum’s expansion would be likely to have on competition?  
5. Please outline your views on barriers to entry and expansion in the manufacture 
and supply of beer, having regard to the following factors: 
a. set up costs and capital requirements 
b. the scale necessary to supply at competitive prices 
c. timeframe for new entry 
d. existing brand loyalty and recognition 
e. any relevant strategic alliances, long-term supply contracts or 
exclusionary arrangements. 


6. Please identify any independent beer suppliers that you consider would be able 
to expand to replicate the volume and product offering of Fermentum (in 
particular Stone & Wood) if there was an increase in the price of Lion and/or 
Fermentum brands. Are these suppliers able to overcome the barriers identified 
in your answer to 5.?  
7. Please comment on the extent to which large customers (such as supermarket 
chains) currently supply craft beer, and the extent to which they could sponsor 
entry or expansion by rival suppliers. 
8. How readily can overseas beer brands not currently supplied in Australia be 
introduced into the Australian market(s)? Is it likely that new overseas brands 
would enter Australia if there was an increase in price of Lion and/or Fermentum 
brands? 
9. The ACCC is also considering the impact of the proposed acquisition on the 
markets for the manufacture and supply of alcoholic cider, alcoholic seltzer and 
kombucha.  
a. Please provide your views (to the extent held) on the relevant markets for 
these products, how closely Lion and Fermentum compete, the alternative 
suppliers to Lion and Fermentum, and what impact, if any, the proposed 
acquisition will have on competition for the supply of these products. 
10. Please provide any additional information or comments, or identify other 
competition issues, that you consider relevant to the ACCC’s consideration of the 
proposed acquisition under section 50 of the Act.  
 
