  
 
 
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
(02) 6243 1111 
www.accc.gov.au
 
Our ref: 
IM-70220  
Contact officer: Lavinia de Havilland / Justin Thompson 
Contact phone: (02) 6243 3002 / (02) 9230 9135 
14 June 2019  
Dear Interested Party 
Request for submissions: Wesfarmers Limited’s proposed acquisition of 
Catch Group Holdings Limited 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
the proposed acquisition of Catch Group Holdings Limited (Catch) by Wesfarmers Limited 
(Wesfarmers) (the proposed acquisition). 
Both Catch and Wesfarmers, primarily through its Kmart and Target stores, compete in the 
retail supply of products in a wide range of product categories. Kmart and Target primarily 
sell via bricks and mortar stores along with online stores for each of Kmart and Target. 
Catch operates an online website and third-party marketplace. Further details regarding the 
proposed acquisition can be found at Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the likely impacts of the proposed acquisition on 
retail competition as well as on third-party marketplace sellers. In particular, we are seeking 
your views on: 
• 
whether the proposed acquisition of Catch would remove a potentially significant 
competitive threat at the retail level, and 
• 
how the proposed acquisition would affect commission rates for third-party sellers 
currently utilising Catch. 
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in any market. 
Please provide your response by no later than 5pm on 5 July 2019. Responses may be 
emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: Submission re: Wesfarmers’ proposed 
acquisition of Catch - attention Lavinia de Havilland/Justin Thompson. If you would like to 
arrange a time to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any questions about this 
letter, please contact Lavinia de Havilland on (02) 6243 3002 or Justin Thompson on (02) 
9230 9135. 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public 
Mergers Register at (ACCC mergers register). 


 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We will not 
disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by 
law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or during court proceedings) or 
in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010.  Where the 
ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, the ACCC will notify you in advance 
where possible so that you may have an opportunity to be heard.  Therefore, if the 
information provided to the ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our 
Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
Suzie Copley 
General Manager 
Merger Coordination and Strategy 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
Attachment A 
 
Wesfarmers  
 
Wesfarmers’ business operations include Kmart, Target, Officeworks, Bunnings, 15% of 
the shares in Coles Group Ltd and 50% of the shares in Loyalty Pacific Pty Ltd (trading as 
flybuys). 
 
Wesfarmers’ Kmart Group operates approximately 505 Kmart and Target bricks and mortar 
stores throughout Australia and operates online stores for each of Kmart and Target. The 
Kmart Group retails the following product categories: womenswear, menswear, children’s 
wear, homewares, toys, general merchandise, beauty, sports and outdoors, ambient 
grocery, pet products and electronics. 
 
Catch 
 
Catch launched in 2006 and is an Australian online retailer of womenswear, menswear, 
children’s wear, homewares, toys, general merchandise, beauty products, sports and 
outdoor products, ambient grocery products, pet products and electronics. It operates a 
website and mobile app.  
 
Catch’s business has two main parts:  
 
1) it offers out-of-season, clearance or overrun branded apparel and general 
merchandise products, and  
2) it launched an online marketplace in May 2017, through which third-party sellers 
supply products to customers. Catch earns a commission on third-party sales. 
 
Catch also offers customers a subscription service, Club Catch, for a monthly or yearly fee 
which entitles members to free shipping (for purchases above $45) and exclusive deals on 
selected products.  
 
The proposed acquisition 
 
The proposed acquisition was announced on 12 June 2019 and involves Wesfarmers 
acquiring the entirety of Catch. 
 


 
 
 
Attachment B 
1. Please outline the reasons for your interest in the proposed acquisition, including any 
commercial relationship/s with Wesfarmers, Kmart Group or Catch. 
Retail competition 
2. Is Catch a close competitor to Kmart Group? In addressing this question, relevant factors 
may include their product ranges, brands, price points and the customer experience they 
offer.   
3. Is Catch a significant competitive threat to Wesfarmers? In addressing this question, 
please have regard to price discounting, innovation or business expansion by Catch. 
4. Would other retailers, particularly Amazon and/or eBay, effectively constrain a combined 
Wesfarmers/Catch, in terms of retail pricing and service levels? 
5. How readily could other online retailers (for example, Kogan) expand, in terms of product 
range or the scale of their operations, to compete with a combined Wesfarmers/Catch? 
Third-party sellers 
6. If you’re a third-party seller via Catch and/or another online marketplace, please describe 
the factors influencing your choice of online marketplace. How do they compare? 
7. Please identify your sales via Catch and other distribution channels (for example, other 
online marketplaces, bricks and mortar stores, or your own website). 
8. If the combined Wesfarmers/Catch increased commission rates to third-party sellers, 
how would you respond? Also, are there any significant costs or obstacles to switching 
between online marketplaces or to other distribution channels? 
Other information or competition issues 
9. If you are a supplier of products to Catch and/or Wesfarmers’ Kmart Group, please 
address the likely competition effects of the proposed acquisition. 
10. Please provide any additional information or comments, or identify other competition 
issues, that you consider relevant to the ACCC’s consideration of the proposed 
acquisition under section 50 of the Act.  
