 
 
Land of the Wurundjeri people of the Kulin Nation
Level 17, 2 Lonsdale Street
Melbourne Vic 3000
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
Tel 03 9290 1800
www.accc.gov.au
 
Our ref: IM-73285 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
15 October 2025 
 
Dear Interested Party 
Request for submissions: Southern Cross Media's proposed acquisition of Seven West 
Media 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on the 
proposed acquisition by Southern Cross Media Group Limited (Southern Cross) of all the 
issued shares in Seven West Media Limited (Seven) by way of a scheme of arrangement 
(the proposed acquisition). 
Southern Cross and Seven are both ASX-listed media companies. Southern Cross owns 
broadcast radio and digital audio assets, while Seven owns free-to-air and digital 
broadcasting assets as well as print and digital publication assets. Details regarding their 
assets and the proposed acquisition can be found at Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact that the proposed acquisition would have 
on competition. In particular, we are seeking your views on: 
• 
how closely Southern Cross and Seven’s media platforms compete in the supply of 
content (such as entertainment, sport, news and information) to consumers and the 
supply of advertising space to advertisers  
• 
the impact on choice and volume or range of entertainment, sport, news and 
information available to consumers (for example, will there be less variety of content; 
less compelling presentation of issues; less vigorous investigation of issues; 
increased proportion of advertising) due to a reduction in competition 
• 
whether there are any particular geographic areas that will be affected by changes in 
competition, particularly in regional Western Australia where Seven’s Western 
Australian Newspapers and Southern Cross’ broadcast radio stations are two players 
in several small, dispersed local areas. 
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B. 
This matter is public, and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 


 
 
2
Please provide your response by no later than 5pm on 29 October 2025. Responses may be 
emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: Submission re: Southern Cross - Seven. If you 
would like to arrange a time to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any questions 
about this letter, please contact mergers@accc.gov.au. 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public Mergers 
Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We will not 
disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled 
by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or during court proceedings) 
or in accordance with s155AAA of the CCA. Where the ACCC is required to disclose 
confidential information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where possible so that you 
may have an opportunity to be heard. Therefore, if the information provided to the ACCC is 
of a confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our Informal Merger Review Process 
Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
Daniel McCracken-Hewson 
General Manager 
Merger Assessments 
 
 
 


 
 
3
Attachment A 
 
Southern Cross 
Southern Cross is an ASX-listed Australian media and entertainment company (ASX: SXL). It 
is the parent company of Southern Cross Austereo. 
Southern Cross operates 104 FM, AM and digital commercial radio stations through the 
Triple M and HIT brands. Southern Cross holds 88 radio licences in metropolitan areas and 
regional areas of Australia. 
Southern Cross also provides national sales representation to 56 regional radio stations 
through affiliation agreements with seven radio networks and a joint venture. 
In addition to broadcast radio, Southern Cross produces over 800 podcasts, 50 music 
stations and live sports coverage.  Its digital audio services are available primarily on its 
LiSTNR platform. Southern Cross also provides Australian sales representation for global 
audio platforms SoundCloud and Sonos Radio.  
Southern Cross does not own any TV licences or assets, and does not broadcast or stream 
audiovisual content (save for a limited amount of on-demand audiovisual content available 
through social media and its websites, which is ancillary to and supports its primary audio 
content businesses). 
Seven 
Seven is an ASX-listed Australian media and entertainment company (ASX: SWM). 
Seven owns and operates the free-to-air TV broadcaster the Seven Network, including its 
affiliate channels 7two, 7mate, 7flix 7Bravo, and Racing.com (among others). 
Alongside TV broadcasting, Seven operates the 7plus online platform, a free ad-supported 
BVOD1 platform offering live streaming of the Seven Network and ‘on-demand’ access to a 
range of TV shows, movies and sporting events, as well as the online news publication 
7NEWS.com.au.  
Outside of the Seven Network and its affiliated brands, Seven operates West Australian 
Newspapers, which publishes print newspapers The West Australian and The Sunday Times, 
online newspapers The Nightly, PerthNow, thewest.com.au, 11 suburban newspapers and 19 
regional publications, and offers digital platforms including sports tipping platform The 
Game and sports streaming platform Streamer.com.au.  
Seven does not own any radio licences or assets and does not broadcast radio. It supplies a 
limited amount of on-demand audio content available through social media and its websites, 
which is ancillary to and supports its primary audiovisual content businesses including a 
limited number of podcasts. 
 
 
1 BVOD means Broadcast Video on Demand, a type of video service that provides on-demand content from traditional TV 
broadcasters, also known as "catch-up TV". This is distinct from SVOD, subscription video-on-demand services, like Netflix, 
Stan, Prime, etc. BVOD services are typically free and supported by advertising, offering viewers content from broadcasters' 
linear TV channels on their own digital platforms. 


 
 
4
The proposed acquisition 
On 30 September 2025, Southern Cross and Seven announced that they had entered into a 
Scheme Implementation Deed, pursuant to which Southern Cross agreed to acquire all 
issued shares in Seven by way of a scheme of arrangement. Under the proposed acquisition, 
Southern Cross shareholders will own 50.1% of the combined entity with Seven shareholders 
owning the remaining 49.9%. 
ACMA 
The Australian Communications and Media Authority (ACMA) enforces media diversity and 
control rules. The ACCC understands ACMA has been engaging with Southern Cross and 
Seven on the effect the proposed acquisition will have on continuing compliance with those 
rules.  More information about those rules is available on ACMA’s website: 
https://www.acma.gov.au/Industry/Broadcast/Media-ownership-and-control  
ACCC approach to media mergers 
The key purpose of the merger provisions of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the 
Act) is to protect competition in markets in Australia, including media markets, by prohibiting 
mergers or acquisitions that are likely to substantially lessen competition in any market. 
In this public merger review, we will consider the likely effect of the proposed acquisition on 
competition as it affects listeners, readers and viewers, advertisers and those selling content 
to media outlets. 
For listeners, readers or viewers (consumers), the ways in which a reduction in competition 
in the media industry might manifest include: 
• 
reduced volume or range of entertainment, sport, news or other content (for example, 
less variety of content, less compelling presentation of issues, less vigorous 
investigation of issues, increased proportion of advertising) 
• 
less choice in terms of the content produced (that is, less diversity of views provided, 
or fewer different “angles” taken on stories) 
• 
higher prices (for example, more content behind paywalls). 
For advertising agencies and businesses that advertise directly on media platforms 
(advertisers), a reduction in competition might manifest through higher prices or lower levels 
of service. 
For sellers of content to media outlets, a reduction in competition might manifest through 
lower prices paid for content. 
The “substantial lessening of competition” test focuses on the extent to which the merger 
parties constrain each other, and the effect of removing this competitive constraint on 
prices, quality or choice. It is not the same as a diversity (range of views) or plurality (number 
of voices) test and is not a public interest test. However, the potential impact on diversity 
and plurality can be relevant to assessing whether there is a lessening of competition. 
 
 


 
 
5
Attachment B 
 
1. If you are representing a business or organisation in providing your submission, 
please provide a brief description of the business or organisation. 
2. Please outline the reasons for your interest in the proposed acquisition, including any 
commercial relationship/s with either of Southern Cross or Seven. 
The questions below have been separated into categories; however, you can answer any 
questions from any category. The merger parties’ competitors and other media outlets 
should please consider all questions. 
Questions for consumers (listeners/readers/viewers) 
3. To what extent do Southern Cross and Seven, including Seven’s West Australian 
Newspapers, compete with one another for the supply of content (such as 
entertainment, sport, news or information) to consumers? Are there particular 
Southern Cross and Seven offerings that compete closely with one another (e.g. 
provide very similar content, target the same demographic, or produce local content 
in the same geographic area)? 
4. Are there any forms of content, or geographic areas, where consumers do not have 
meaningful alternatives to the offerings of Southern Cross and Seven?  
5. If the proposed acquisition proceeds, do you consider that the content offering of the 
merged Southern Cross-Seven is likely to change compared to Southern Cross’ and 
Seven’s current offerings? How will it change and why will it change? Will any change 
be due to less competition? 
6. For listeners of Southern Cross’ broadcast radio or digital audio, especially listeners 
in regional areas, what other sources of content do you have which you consider to 
be substitutes, if any? What characteristics do you value in these alternatives?  
7. For readers of Seven’s West Australian Newspapers, especially the newspapers 
servicing regional WA, what other sources of news (including local news) do you 
have which you consider to be substitutes, if any? What characteristics do you value 
in these alternative news options? 
Questions for advertisers (including businesses that advertise directly) 
8. Please identify the media platforms (for example, print, digital print, free-to-air TV, 
video-on-demand, radio or digital audio) that you use for advertising and identify the 
specific Southern Cross and Seven platforms that you advertise with.  
9. Are there aspects of Southern Cross’ or Seven’s media outlets that make them 
particularly valuable advertising options for your (or your client’s) business? 
10. If there was an increase in the price of advertising on Southern Cross’ and Seven’s 
media platforms, would you switch to alternative advertising options? Which 
alternatives would you pursue? 
11. Have you ever used the presence of Southern Cross to negotiate a more favourable 
advertising arrangement with Seven or vice-versa? If yes, please provide details. 
12. Have you observed other media suppliers changing their offers for advertising 
arrangements in response to offers from Southern Cross or Seven? If yes, please 
provide details. 


 
 
6
13. If the proposed acquisition proceeds, will there be an impact on your ability to 
negotiate favourable commercial arrangements for advertising opportunities? Please 
explain why or why not and provide examples. 
Questions for content suppliers 
14. To what extent do Southern Cross, Seven and other media suppliers compete to 
acquire your content? In your response, please describe any requirements that you 
have for acquirers of your content (for example, access to particular types of delivery 
platforms or actual or potential audience reach). 
15. If the proposed acquisition proceeds, will there be an impact on your ability to 
negotiate favourable commercial arrangements for the supply of content (for 
example, news stories) to media suppliers? Please explain why or why not and 
provide examples. 
Other information 
16. Do you consider that the merged Southern Cross-Seven would have an increased 
ability to bundle content, bundle advertising opportunities or cross-promote? If yes, 
please explain whether and how these practices may impact on competition. 
17. If the proposed acquisition proceeds, will there be an impact on new entry or 
expansion by media suppliers? In your response, please identify any barriers to entry 
or expansion (for example, financial, technological, reputational, regulatory, etc.). 
18. Please provide any additional information or comments, or identify other competition 
issues, that you consider relevant to the ACCC’s consideration of the proposed 
acquisition under section 50 of the Act. 
