 
 
 
Land of the Ngunnawal people
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
Tel: 02 6243 1368 
www.accc.gov.au
 
Our ref: IM-72708 
 
 
27 September 2024 
 
 
Dear Interested Party 
Re:  ACCC seeking your views: Proposed Acquisition of National Pies Pty Ltd by Patties 
Foods Pty Ltd.  
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on the 
proposed acquisition of National Pies Pty Ltd (National Pies) by Patties Foods Pty Ltd 
(Patties) (the proposed acquisition).  
Patties is a producer and wholesale supplier of primarily frozen packaged meals, savoury 
products and sweets in Australia and New Zealand. National Pies is a producer and 
wholesale supplier of primarily chilled savoury products (mainly pies, sausage rolls and 
pasties) in Australia. National Pies also supplies some customers with frozen savoury 
products.  
Further details about the products and brands supplied by Patties and National Pies are 
provided at Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact that the Proposed Acquisition would 
have on competition. In particular, we are seeking your views on: 
• 
the closeness of competition between Patties and National Pies  
• 
the degree to which other companies compete in the supply of chilled and frozen 
savoury products 
• 
the extent to which consumers consider chilled and frozen savoury products to be 
substitutable 
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
Please provide your response by 11 October 2024 via email to mergers@accc.gov.au with 
the title: Submission re: Patties/National Pies. If you require more time to respond, please let 
us know. 
If you would like to arrange a time to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any 
questions about this letter, please contact mergers@accc.gov.au. Updates regarding the 
ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public Mergers Register at (ACCC 
mergers register). 


 
 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC treats sensitive information it receives during a merger review as confidential, and 
will not publish your submission. We will not disclose submissions to third parties (except 
our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of 
information legislation or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the 
Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, we will notify you in advance where possible so that you have an opportunity to 
be heard. Therefore please clearly indicate if any information you provide is confidential. Our 
Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
Aggie Marek 
Acting General Manager  
Merger Investigations  
 
 


 
 
Attachment A 
Acquirer – Patties  
Patties is a producer and wholesale supplier of primarily packaged meals, savoury products 
and sweets in Australia and New Zealand. It is owned by PAG Asia III LP (PAG).  
Patties predominantly supplies supermarkets, and petrol and convenience stores via food 
service distributors.  
Patties’ retail brand names include Four’N Twenty, Patties Foods, Herbert Adams, On The 
Menu, Lean Cuisine, Fitness Outcomes, Weight Watchers, Leader, Leggo’s, and Nannas. It 
also manufactures private label, corporate branded and other branded products. 
Patties has three manufacturing facilities in Victoria and one in each of Adelaide, Perth, 
Brisbane and Auckland. 
 
Target – National Pies 
National Pies is a producer and wholesale supplier of primarily chilled savoury products 
(mainly savoury pies, but also sausage rolls and pasties) in Australia. It supplies chilled 
savoury products to supermarkets across Australia.  
It also produces and sells frozen savoury products to supermarkets and food service 
distributors. 
Although National Pies does not manufacture private label products, end customers and 
corporate customers of food service distributors may present National Pies products as 
unbranded, with no packaging at point of sale. 
 
Proposed acquisition  
Patties intends to acquire 100% of the shares in National Pies.  
 


 
 
Attachment B 
1. Please describe your business or organisation. 
2. Outline your interest in the proposed acquisition, including any commercial 
relationship(s) with Patties or National Pies.  
Closeness of competition 
3. How closely do Patties and National Pies compete in the supply of chilled and frozen 
savoury products in Australia?  
4. Identify the suppliers that compete with Patties and National Pies in Australia in the 
product segments outlined below.  
a. Frozen savoury products 
b. Chilled savoury products. 
Please comment on the extent to which they compete with each of the parties, their 
relative size and range of product offerings. 
Substitutability of chilled and frozen savoury products 
5. What are consumer preferences in purchasing chilled or frozen savoury products? In 
your response, please consider factors such as price, quality, convenience, shelf life and 
branding. 
6. For business customers that purchase savoury products (such as petrol and 
convenience stores, sporting stadiums or commercial customers), what are their 
preferences between chilled and frozen savoury products. In your response, please 
consider factors such as price, quality, convenience, storage, shelf life and branding. 
7. How readily can suppliers switch from manufacturing chilled savoury products to 
manufacturing frozen savoury products and vice versa? If possible, provide any recent 
examples. 
Competitive constraint from new entry or expansion 
8. Please describe what is required to enter or expand in the supply of chilled or frozen 
savoury products in Australia? You may wish to comment on:  
a. set-up costs for a new entrant or expansion costs for an existing competitor  
b. whether new entrants need to secure customers before entry and, if so, the 
minimum scale required for new entry  
c. customer brand loyalty  
d. timeframes for new entry or expansion 
e. any regulatory requirements or other barriers to new entry or expansion. 


 
 
9. Are there any recent examples of entry or exit in the market for the supply of chilled or 
frozen savoury products in Australia? Are there any potential new suppliers of chilled or 
frozen savoury products in Australia?  
10. Discuss the extent to which customers may be able to supply their own chilled or frozen 
savoury products, including:  
a. any examples of customers (such as supermarkets, grocery stores, petrol and 
convenience stores, or food service distributors) supplying their own chilled or 
frozen savoury products  
b. the expense and time required to commence self-supplying chilled or frozen 
ready meals.  
Other information or competition issues 
11. Provide any additional comments or identify other competition issues that you consider 
relevant to the ACCC’s consideration of the proposed acquisition under section 50 of the 
Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth). 
