Page 1 of 14 
 
Public Competition Assessment 
14 February 2013 
APA Group - proposed acquisition of Hastings Diversified 
Utilities Fund  
Introduction 
1. 
On 19 July 2012, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission 
(ACCC) announced its decision not to oppose the proposed acquisition of 
Hastings Diversified Utilities Fund (HDF) by APA Group (APA) (proposed 
acquisition), subject to an undertaking accepted by the ACCC on 19 July 2012 
pursuant to section 87B of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth) (the 
Act). The ACCC decided that the proposed acquisition, in conjunction with the 
undertaking, would not be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening 
competition in any market in contravention of section 50 of the Act. 
2. 
The ACCC made its decision on the basis of the information provided by the 
merger parties and information arising from its market inquiries. This Public 
Competition Assessment outlines the basis on which the ACCC has reached its 
decision on the proposed acquisition, subject to confidentiality considerations. 
Public Competition Assessment 
3. 
To provide an enhanced level of transparency in its decision making process, the 
ACCC issues a Public Competition Assessment for all transaction proposals 
where: 
 a transaction is opposed; 
 a transaction is subject to court enforceable undertakings; 
 the transaction parties seek such disclosure; or 
 a transaction is not opposed but raises important issues that the ACCC 
considers should be made public. 
4. 
This Public Competition Assessment has been issued because APA’s proposed 
acquisition of HDF is subject to a court enforceable undertaking.  
5. 
By issuing Public Competition Assessments, the ACCC aims to provide the 
public with a better understanding of the ACCC's analysis of various markets and 


 
Page 2 of 14 
the associated merger and competition issues. It also alerts the public to 
circumstances where the ACCC’s assessment of the competition conditions in 
particular markets is changing, or likely to change. 
6. 
Each Public Competition Assessment is specific to the particular transaction 
under review by the ACCC. While some transaction proposals may involve the 
same or related markets, it should not be assumed that the analysis and 
decision outlined in one Public Competition Assessment will be conclusive of the 
ACCC’s view in respect of other transaction proposals, as each matter will be 
considered on its own merits. 
7. 
Public Competition Assessments outline the ACCC’s principal reasons for 
forming views on a proposed acquisition at the time the decision was made. As 
such, Public Competition Assessments may not definitively identify and explain 
all issues that the ACCC considers arise from a proposed acquisition. Further, 
the ACCC’s decisions generally involve consideration of both non-confidential 
and confidential information provided by the merger parties and market 
participants. In order to maintain the confidentiality of particular information, 
Public Competition Assessments do not contain any confidential information or 
its sources. 
The parties 
The acquirer: APA  
8. 
APA is one of Australia’s major energy transmission companies. It owns a 
number of major gas transmission pipelines, including: 
a) 
the Victorian Transmission System (VTS); 
b) 
the Moomba to Sydney Pipeline (MSP); 
c) 
the Roma to Brisbane Pipeline (RBP); 
d) 
the Carpentaria Gas Pipeline (CGP); and 
e) 
a 50% interest in the SEA Gas Pipeline (SEA Gas). 
9. 
APA also owns a number of distribution networks and has minority interests in  
the following companies: 
a) 
Envestra Limited;  
b) 
Ethane Pipeline Fund; and 
c) 
Energy Infrastructure Investments. 
10. 
APA operates and maintains the assets of these companies. 
 
The target: HDF 
11. 
HDF owns 100% of Epic Energy Pty Ltd (Epic). Epic, through its subsidiaries, 
owns a number of Australian gas transmission pipelines, including: 
 
the South West Queensland Pipeline (SWQP); 


 
Page 3 of 14 
 
the Queensland to South Australia/New South Wales Link (QSN); 
 
the Moomba to Adelaide Pipeline System (MAPS); and 
 
the Pilbara Energy Pipeline. 
Other industry participants 
Producers 
12. 
Gas producers (producers) extract raw natural gas from petroleum reservoirs 
and coal seams. Producers then process the raw gas into pipeline quality natural 
gas for the domestic market or liquid natural gas (LNG) for export.  
13. 
Gas producers in Australia include Santos, Esso, BHP Billiton, AGL Energy 
(AGL) and Origin Energy (Origin). 
14. 
It is common for oil and gas producers to establish joint ventures due to the 
capital intensive nature and high risk profile of these projects. For instance: 
 
the South Australia and the South-West Queensland Cooper Basin Joint 
Ventures –  two joint ventures led by Santos in relation to the production in 
South Australia’s and South-West Queensland Cooper Basin. The other 
participants, in both joint-ventures, are Beach Energy and Origin; 
 
Longford gas production – a joint venture between Esso and BHP Billiton in 
relation to the production in the Gippsland Basin; and 
 
Bass Gas – a joint venture between Origin and Australian Worldwide 
Exploration in relation to the production in the Bass Basin. 
Shippers 
15. 
Parties that contract for the transmission of gas along a pipeline are referred to 
as shippers. Shippers include gas retailers, gas wholesalers and major users of 
gas such as electricity generators and industrial users. 
16. 
Producers usually sell gas to shippers at the production point. The shipper then 
contracts with a transmission pipeline operator for the transmission of the gas. 
The ACCC understands that, in some instances, producers may themselves 
contract with the transmission pipeline operator to transport gas. This enables 
the producer to sell gas to customers at the point of delivery (rather than the 
point of injection). In these circumstances the producer is also the shipper. 
17. 
Large gas users often negotiate directly with producers to purchase gas, and 
then negotiate with transmission pipeline operators for delivery of gas. Such 
users include Xstrata, Rio Tinto, Visy, AGL and Origin. 
18. 
Major gas retailers, who purchase gas from producers, utilise the transmission 
system1, and then on-sell gas to residential, commercial and industrial users 
                                                 
1 Gas transmission systems transport natural gas from production fields to major demand 
centres. The pipelines typically have wide diameters and operate under high pressure to 
optimise shipping capacity. 


 
Page 4 of 14 
through the distribution systems2, include TRUenergy, Lumo Energy, Alinta 
Energy, AGL and Origin. 
19. 
Vertically integrated parties such as AGL and Origin operate at multiple levels of 
the supply chain and are each a producer, shipper, retailer, wholesale customer 
and major user of gas. 
Transmission pipeline operators 
20. 
The gas transmission sector involves, among other things, the transportation of 
processed natural gas through high pressure pipelines from processing facilities 
to the entry point (‘city gate’) of the distribution system or to major 
manufacturing/power generation sites. Gas transmission pipelines typically have 
high operating pressure to optimise shipping capacity and act as storage vessels 
as well as modes of transportation. 
21. 
APA, Epic (owned by HDF) and Jemena are the major pipeline operators in 
eastern Australia. 
22. 
Jemena owns and manages the following eastern Australian gas infrastructure: 
 
the Queensland Gas Pipeline (QGP); 
 
the Eastern Gas Pipeline (EGP); 
 
the VicHub facility; 
 
the Colongra Gas Pipeline and storage facility; and 
 
the Jemena Gas Network in New South Wales. 
23. 
Jemena also has a 50% ownership interest in the ActewAGL gas distribution 
business.  
24. 
Jemena Asset Management (a Jemena entity) also manages the Central 
Ranges Pipeline on behalf of APA, and the South Gippsland Natural Gas 
Pipeline and Multinet Gas on behalf of the DUET Group. 
25. 
The following map illustrates the major transmission pipelines (including 
ownership and regulatory status), and demand centres in eastern Australia. 
                                                 
2 Gas distribution systems take gas from transmission pipelines and reticulate it into residential 
homes, offices, hospitals and businesses. Their main customers are energy retailers, which 
aggregate loads for sale to customer. 


 
Page 5 of 14 
Figure 1 – Eastern Australian gas transmission pipelines 
 
The proposed transaction 
26. 
On 14 December 2011, APA announced a takeover offer for all remaining HDF 
shares. At the time of this announcement APA owned 21.11% of the shares in 
HDF. 
27. 
APA’s bid for 100% of HDF was conditional on obtaining informal clearance from 
the ACCC.  


 
Page 6 of 14 
28. 
On 15 May 2012, HDF received a non-binding and conditional takeover proposal 
from Pipeline Partners Australia Pty Limited (PPA) which became binding on 
10 July 2012. On 17 August 2012 APA increased its takeover offer for HDF and 
on 20 August 2012, PPA announced that it did not intend to exercise its right to 
match the consideration offered by APA.   
Review timeline 
29. 
The following table outlines the timeline of key events in this matter. 
Date 
Event 
14 December 2011 
ACCC commenced review under the Merger Review Process 
Guidelines. 
13 January 2012 
Closing date for submissions from interested parties. 
6 February 2012 
ACCC requested further information from the merger parties. 
ACCC timeline suspended and former proposed decision date 
for announcement of ACCC's findings of 16 February 2012 
delayed. 
16 March 2012 
ACCC timeline recommenced. 
29 March 2012 
Former proposed decision date of 29 March 2012 for 
announcement of ACCC's findings delayed. 
30 March 2012 
ACCC published a Statement of Issues outlining preliminary 
competition concerns. 
13 April 2012 
Closing date for submissions relating to Statement of Issues. 
16 April 2012 
Timeline extended at the request of APA to allow it to make 
further submissions. ACCC timeline suspended. Former 
proposed decision date for announcement of ACCC's findings 
of 26 April 2012 delayed. 
11 May 2012 
APA requested the ACCC to consider and consult upon an in-
principle proposal to divest MAPS and commit to behavioural 
obligations to allow connection to the SWQP. The ACCC 
commenced market inquiries on the new proposal as 
described by APA in order to determine whether a section 87B 
undertaking based on this proposal would be capable of 
addressing its competition concerns. ACCC timeline 
recommenced. 
24 May 2012 
Closing date for submissions relating to APA's proposal. 
12 June 2012 
Previous tentative decision date of 21 June 2012 delayed to 
allow the ACCC to assess the information provided during 
market inquiries and engage with APA on any relevant issues 
arising from market inquiries. 
19 July 2012 
ACCC announced it would not oppose the proposed 
acquisition, subject to the section 87B undertaking accepted 
by the ACCC. 
Market inquiries 
30. 
The ACCC conducted market inquiries with a range of industry participants, 
including producers, shippers, energy retailers, gas transmission pipeline owners 
and relevant industry and consumer associations. Submissions were sought in 
relation to the substantive competition issues, the in-principle proposals put 
forward by APA to remedy the ACCC’s competition concerns and the proposed 
undertaking. 


 
Page 7 of 14 
Statement of Issues 
31. 
The ACCC published its Statement of Issues on 30 March 2012 identifying a 
number of competition issues. The key issue of concern was that the 
aggregation of ownership of transmission pipelines in eastern Australia would 
give APA an increased incentive and/or ability to: 
 
increase charges on the MSP and the MAPS, by removing constraints 
currently imposed by separate ownership of these competing pipelines; 
 
adopt an ‘injection and withdrawal pricing model’ which would remove the 
incentive to provide customised service solutions that currently exist as a 
result of separate ownership of different pipelines in the network; 
 
raise the price of ancillary services, by removing the competitive tension 
that currently exists as a result of the MSP being owned by one party and 
the MAPS and QSN/SWQP being owned by another party; and 
 
increase the already significant barriers to entry. 
In-Principle Proposal and the Proposed Undertaking 
32. 
On 26 April 2012, APA provided the ACCC with an in-principle proposal for a 
section 87B undertaking by which APA proposed to: 
 
divest the MAPS following the proposed acquisition (divestment 
proposal); and 
 
provide a negotiation/arbitration regime for parties seeking to connect a 
pipeline from the Gunnedah Basin to the SWQP (behavioural proposal),  
(collectively the in-principle proposal). 
33. 
As a result of market inquiries in relation to the in-principle proposal, the ACCC 
decided the behavioural proposal was not necessary to address the competition 
concerns arising from the proposed acquisition.  
34. 
APA subsequently formalised the key terms of the divestment proposal in the 
form of a section 87B undertaking (the proposed Undertaking). On 2 July 2012, 
the ACCC commenced market consultation in relation to the proposed 
Undertaking. 
Post Statement of Issues competition concerns 
35. 
Based on the market inquiries conducted after the publication of the Statement 
of Issues, the ACCC identified  the following additional competition issues that 
might arise notwithstanding the divestment proposal: 
 
whether single ownership of the MSP and the QSN/SWQP would reduce 
the bargaining power of shippers and provide APA with the ability to 
significantly and sustainably increase prices on those pipelines; and 
 
whether the proposed acquisition would remove the threat of bypass to the 
QSN/SWQP (represented by the potential for a new pipeline to be built 
connecting Wallumbilla with the MSP). 


 
Page 8 of 14 
With/without test 
36. 
In assessing a proposed acquisition pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC 
considers the likely effect of the acquisition by comparing the likely future 
competitive environment post-acquisition if the transaction proceeds (the “with” 
position) to the likely future competitive environment if the acquisition does not 
proceed (the “without” position) to determine whether the proposed acquisition is 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in any relevant 
market. 
37. 
In the absence of the proposed acquisition, the ACCC considered it is likely that 
the status quo would prevail, that is, either HDF continues as the owner of the 
HDF assets or PPA’s alternative bid suceeds. In either case a single owner 
would continue to operate the HDF assets as a standalone gas transmission 
operator.  
Market definition 
38. 
The ACCC considered that the following two markets were most relevant to the 
assessment of the competitive impact of the proposed acquisition: 
 
the integrated market for the transmission of gas via one or more pipelines 
from eastern Australian points of production to eastern Australian points of 
demand; and  
 
the integrated market for the supply of ancillary services via one or more 
pipelines from eastern Australian points of production to eastern Australian 
points of demand. 
39. 
The effect of the transaction on any upstream and downstream markets was also 
highly relevant in the ACCC’s consideration of this matter. 
40. 
Within these markets, areas of close competition between the merger parties 
were identified. These were the transport of gas to particular demand centres 
and the transport of gas from particular points of supply. 
41. 
The ACCC notes that its approach to market definition is purposive, recognising 
that market definition is a tool to identify and define the boundaries of 
competitive overlap between the merger parties. Therefore other market 
definitions may be relevant to future possible transactions, including markets 
more limited in geographic scope. 
Product dimension  
42. 
Both APA and Epic are involved in gas transmission and the supply of ancillary 
services. 
43. 
Gas transmission services include: 
 
Forward haul which involves the transportation of gas from a point of 
production to a point of demand via one or more pipelines; 
 
Back haul involves the contractual right to the transportation of gas in a 
direction opposite to the aggregate physical flow of gas molecules in a 
pipeline. 


 
Page 9 of 14 
44. 
In addition to the above mentioned services, transmission pipeline operators 
offer ancillary services to assist shippers in managing the short-term differences 
between the available supplies of gas and the demand for gas by their 
customers. The services offered to shippers that provide them with some degree 
of flexibility to manage the variability in the demand for gas by end-users include:  
 
Imbalance services: an imbalance will occur when the volume of gas 
injected by the pipeline operator differs from the volume of gas withdrawn 
by the shipper. Gas Transportation Agreements (GTAs) may allow an 
imbalance up to a specified threshold before imposing imbalance charges. 
 
Storage: this service allows a shipper to inject more gas into a pipeline than 
it takes out on a particular day, up to a specified threshold (imbalance 
allowance) without incurring imbalance charges. The additional gas 
supplied into the pipeline (positive imbalance) may be withdrawn by the 
shipper at a later point in time. 
 
Storage and loan: this service allows a shipper to inject less gas than it 
takes out on any given day (negative imbalance) up to a specified level 
without incurring imbalance charges. The additional gas taken by the 
shipper (the ‘loan’) must be repaid within the time specified in the contract. 
45. 
The ACCC formed the view that ancillary services are a separate product market 
from gas transmission, because ancillary services are used differently from 
transmission services and ancillary services on one pipeline are often used in 
combination with gas transmission services on a different pipeline. 
Geographic dimension  
46. 
The eastern Australian gas transmission pipeline system became fully connected 
in 2009 with the completion of the QSN. This created an integrated pipeline 
network between the three main supply regions (Victoria, the Cooper Basin and 
eastern Queensland) and each of the major demand centres (Adelaide, 
Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane and Canberra). 
47. 
The dynamics surrounding gas transmission pricing and pricing incentives in 
eastern Australia are consistent with the existence of an integrated market for 
the transmission of gas via one or more pipelines from eastern Australian points 
of production to eastern Australian points of demand. 
48. 
Shippers consider both direct and indirect routes to manage their portfolio risk at 
the least cost. Additionally, shippers may utilise gas swaps3 to overcome the 
physical limitations imposed by pipeline direction, pipeline capacity and the 
location of supply and demand. Shippers may also rely on their potential use of 
gas swaps as a competitive threat in negotiation with transmission pipeline 
operators. 
49. 
The ACCC formed the view that the existence of multiple routes from a given 
supply centre to a given demand centre in combination with the use of gas 
swaps means that competition between gas transmission pipelines should be 
                                                 
3  Gas swaps are a mechanism that gas producers and shippers can use in order to bypass or 
minimise the use of gas transmission pipelines (while still obtaining gas at the desired 
location). Gas swaps can be conducted internally within a shipper’s or gas producer’s own 
portfolio or externally through negotiation between at least two shippers and/or at least two 
gas producers. 


 
Page 10 of 14 
analysed in an eastern Australian market for gas transmission and ancillary 
services.4 
50. 
Importantly, the ACCC also considered it relevant to examine the possible 
effects of the proposed acquisition on particular routes within this market, which 
by serving the same demand centre or by providing transport services from the 
same point of supply, are considered particularly close substitutes. These routes 
can appropriately be considered as distinct narrower markets within the broader 
eastern Australian market. 
Competition analysis 
51. 
The ACCC considered that, in the absence of the Undertaking, the proposed 
acquisition would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of substantially 
lessening competition in the relevant markets, as identified above. 
52. 
The ACCC’s primary concern was that the proposed acquisition would result in 
APA owning the majority of the gas transmission pipelines in eastern Australia, 
including: 
 
all of the pipelines servicing the Cooper Basin; and 
 
all of the pipelines servicing Adelaide. 
53. 
The aggregation of ownership of these pipelines would give APA an increased 
incentive and/or capacity to raise transmission charges and the price of ancillary 
services. 
54. 
The ACCC also considered whether, notwithstanding the proposal to divest the 
MAPS, the proposed acquisition would: 
 
provide APA with the ability to significantly and sustainably increase prices 
on the MSP and QSN/SWQP by reducing the bargaining power of shippers; 
and 
 
remove the threat of bypass to the QSN/SWQP (for example, by the 
potential for a new pipeline to be built connecting Wallumbilla and the 
MSP). 
Aggregation of ownership of gas transmission pipelines in eastern Australia 
55. 
The ACCC considered that the proposed acquisition would have the effect, or be 
likely to have the effect, of substantially lessening competition, as by aggregating 
the ownership of gas transmission pipelines in eastern Australia, APA would be 
likely to have an increased incentive and/or ability to: 
 
increase charges on the MSP, MAPS and/or SEA Gas, because it would 
remove the constraints currently imposed by separate ownership of these 
competing pipelines at Moomba (the MSP and the MAPS) and at the 
Adelaide demand centre (the MAPS and the SEA Gas); and 
                                                 
4 The Australian Competition Tribunal (Tribunal) in previous decisions has recognised that the 
gas transmission market in eastern Australia is becoming more integrated, with its geographic 
scope broadening over time. See, for instance, the Tribunal decision regarding the AGL 
Cooper Basin supply arrangements [(1997) ATPR 41-593 at 44211] and the Duke EGP 
decision [(2001), ATPR 41-821 paragraph 77)]. 
 


 
Page 11 of 14 
 
raise the price of ancillary services, because it would remove the 
competitive tension that currently exists as a result of the separate 
ownership of the MSP by one party and the MAPS and the QSN/ SWQP by 
another party. 
56. 
As discussed further at paragraph 71 below, the ACCC ultimately formed the 
view that these competition issues would likely be addressed by the proposed 
Undertaking. 
Reducing bargaining power of shippers on the MSP and the QSN/SWQP 
57. 
The ACCC also considered the extent to which the MSP currently constrains 
prices charged to shippers for transport on the QSN/SWQP and vice versa. This 
competition concern was not specifically addressed by the proposed 
Undertaking.  
58. 
The ACCC noted that, while these pipelines do not directly serve the same 
demand centres, they are vertically related pipelines and potentially 
complementary, as some routes may require the transportation of gas along the 
full length of MSP-QSN/SWQP. 
59. 
Where there are two separate owners of these pipelines there is uncertainty on 
the part of each of APA and HDF about the tariff charged by the other pipeline 
owner (for example: (i) along the route that may be currently used, without a 
change of the flow direction, to transport gas from the Surat/Bowen Basin to 
service demand in Sydney and surrounding regions, via the QSN/SWQP and 
MSP; or (ii) along the route that may be used to transport gas from the 
Gippsland Basin to Wallumbilla, via the VTS, MSP and the QSN/SWQP, in a 
scenario where there is a reversal of flow, with gas flowing from south to north). 
60. 
This uncertainty constrains the two pipeline-owners, because in the event the 
combined tariff of transporting gas along the full length of the complementary 
pipelines (QSN/SWQP-MSP) is set too high, both APA and HDF risk ending up 
in a situation where no transportation agreement is reached with the shipper.  
61. 
Therefore, each pipeline owner has an incentive to charge shippers a tariff that is 
low enough to still allow the contract to proceed, and it has to calculate this tariff 
without knowing the level of the tariff charged by the other pipeline owner. 
62. 
If APA is able to increase transportation tariffs this may lead to lower ex-field 
prices being paid for gas (because the acquirers of the gas would have to factor 
in the need to pay higher transport tariffs to APA) which may in turn reduce 
future gas exploration and/or investment in gas fields. 
63. 
Following the market concerns described above, the ACCC considered:  
 
whether the current uncertainty on the part of each of APA and HDF as to 
the tariff charged by the other pipeline owner provides a constraint, in that 
APA and HDF risk a situation where no transportation agreement can be 
agreed with the shipper if the total cost of transporting gas along the MSP 
and QSN/SWQP is too high (in which case neither pipeline owner will 
receive any transmission revenue); and  
 
if this is the case, whether the proposed acquisition would remove this 
uncertainty, thereby putting APA in a superior position to charge higher 


 
Page 12 of 14 
tariffs with less risk that doing so would result in a failure to agree a 
transportation agreement.  
64. 
The ACCC formed the view that, on balance, it was unlikely that the common 
ownership of the MSP and QSN/SWQP would result in a substantial lessening of 
competition.  If, in the future, gas flows from the south to north in eastern 
Australia, with or without the proposed acquisition, the owners of the MSP and 
QSN/SWQP would likely be constrained in their conduct by shippers’ ability to: 
 
use swaps; 
 
source gas from a different basin; 
 
use the EGP; and/or 
 
use the MAPS. 
Removing the threat of bypass to the QSN/SWQP  
65. 
Without the proposed acquisition, the MSP could provide an alternative for 
shippers to bypass the QSN/SWQP. As this option will be removed with the 
common ownership of the MSP and the QSN/SWQP, the ACCC also considered 
whether any market power held by the owner of the QSN/SWQP is constrained 
by the threat of bypass by a newly constructed pipeline. For example, a new 
pipeline connecting Wallumbilla with the MSP was identified by some market 
participants as the least costly bypass option. Some market participants 
considered that the possibility that such a pipeline may be built by APA 
constrained the current owner of the QSN/SWQP. 
66. 
The ACCC formed the view that there are a number of possible bypass options 
to the QSN/SWQP, including: 
 
a new pipeline that, in whole or in part, duplicates the QSN/SWQP for gas 
produced at the Cooper Basin and destined for Queensland domestic 
demand or LNG requirements; and/or 
 
a new pipeline connecting Wallumbilla and the Newcastle distribution 
network for gas produced in the Surat/Bowen Basins and destined for 
Sydney, Canberra and/or Melbourne. 
67. 
The ACCC considered that the proposed acquisition would not remove the only 
credible threat of bypass to the QSN/SWQP.   
Undertaking 
68. 
On 19 July 2012, the ACCC accepted a court enforceable undertaking given by 
APA pursuant to section 87B of the Act (the Undertaking), to address the 
competition concerns identified by the ACCC.  
69. 
The Undertaking requires APA to divest the MAPS (Divestiture Business) to a 
purchaser approved by the ACCC. 
70. 
The Undertaking also requires APA to hold its interest in the Divestiture 
Business separate from its other assets and businesses in the period after APA 
gains control of HDF but prior to the divestiture. Independent management, ring 
fencing and other provisions apply to the Divestiture Business during this period.  


 
Page 13 of 14 
71. 
The Undertaking addressed the competition issues resulting from the 
aggregation of gas transmission pipelines in eastern Australia which would 
otherwise arise in the absence of the Undertaking (see paragraph 55 above) by: 
 
preserving the status quo of two independent pipeline operators servicing 
Moomba and ensuring that the Adelaide demand centre will continue to be 
served by two independently owned pipelines (SEA Gas and the MAPS); 
 
preserving the status quo of shippers having two independent pipeline 
operators from which to seek storage, with shippers being able to choose 
between the MSP and the MAPS and between the MAPS and the SWQP; 
and 
 
ensuring that APA, post-acquisition, will continue to be constrained in its 
ability and incentive to impose prices or terms which disadvantage shippers 
servicing the Sydney and Adelaide demand centres and/or the Moomba 
and Wallumbilla hubs.  
72. 
The Undertaking addressed the ACCC’s competition concerns by : 
 
the creation of a viable, effective, stand-alone independent and long term 
competitor in the markets for the supply of gas transmission and ancillary 
services via one or more pipelines in eastern Australia;  
 
ensuring that the purchaser of the Divestiture Business (to be approved by 
the ACCC) has the necessary assets, rights and agreements to ensure that  
effective competition is maintained post-acquisition; 
 
maintaining the economic viability, marketability, competitiveness and 
goodwill of the Divestiture Businesses prior to divestiture including ensuring 
effective ring fencing measures are implemented to protect the confidential 
information of the Divestiture Business; 
 
requiring APA to hold its interest in the Divestiture Business separate from 
its other assets and businesses pending divestiture of the Divestiture 
Business; and 
 
providing for the effective oversight of APA’s compliance with the 
Undertaking. 
Conclusion  
73. 
On 19 July 2012, the ACCC accepted the court enforceable Undertaking given 
by APA, pursuant to section 87B of the Act, to address the competition concerns 
that would otherwise arise as a result of the proposed acquisition in the markets 
for the supply of gas transmission and ancillary services via one or more 
pipelines in eastern Australia. 
74. 
Based on market feedback and its assessment of the viability of the MAPS as a 
viable, effective, stand-alone independent and long term competitor in the 
relevant markets, the ACCC formed the view that the purchaser of the 
Divestiture Business would be likely to provide an ongoing and effective 
competitive constraint in the relevant markets.  
75. 
The Undertaking is available on the Section 87B Undertakings Register on the 
ACCC website at www.accc.gov.au/content/index.phtml/itemId/1066611. 
 


 
Page 14 of 14 
Conclusion 
76. 
On the basis of the above, including taking into account the Undertaking, the 
ACCC formed the view that the proposed acquisition would not be likely to result 
in a substantial lessening of competition in any market in contravention of 
section 50 of the Act. 
 
