 
30 March 2012 
 
Statement of Issues — APA Group proposed acquisition of 
Hastings Diversified Utilities Fund 
1. 
Outlined below is the Statement of Issues released by the Australian 
Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) in relation to the proposed 
acquisition of Hastings Diversified Utilities Fund by APA Group (proposed 
acquisition).  
2. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well 
as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
3. 
In line with the ACCC’s Merger Review Process Guidelines (available on the 
ACCC’s website at www.accc.gov.au) the ACCC has established a secondary 
timeline for further consideration of the issues. The ACCC anticipates 
completing further market inquiries by 13 April 2012 and anticipates making a 
final decision on 26 April 2012. However, the anticipated timeline can change 
in line with the Merger Review Process Guidelines. To keep abreast of possible 
changes in relation to timing and to find relevant documents, interested parties 
should visit the Mergers Register on the ACCC's website at 
www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
4. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties 
(including customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to 
provide the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making 
further submissions should they consider it necessary. 
Background 
5. 
On 13 April 2010, the ACCC commenced a public informal review of APA 
Group’s (APA) completed acquisition of a 14.9% interest in Hastings 
Diversified Utilities Fund (HDF). 
6. 
During the course of the ACCC’s review, APA increased its interest in HDF to 
16.8%. 


APA Group - proposed acquisition of Hastings Diversified Utilities Fund 
 
2
7. 
On 27 July 2010, the ACCC decided not to oppose APA’s completed 
acquisition of 16.8% of HDF, concluding that the acquisition was unlikely to 
substantially lessen competition. 
8. 
Between July 2010 and November 2011 APA increased its interest in HDF to 
21.11%. 
9. 
On 14 December 2011, APA announced a takeover offer for the remaining units 
in HDF. On the same day the ACCC commenced a public informal review of 
APA’s proposed acquisition after receiving a submission from APA seeking 
clearance from the ACCC for the proposed acquisition.  
The parties 
APA Group 
10. 
APA is comprised of the Australian Pipeline Trust and APT Investment Trust 
and is one of Australia’s major energy transmission companies. It owns more 
than $8 billion worth of major gas transmission and distribution assets (further 
information provided below in paragraph 90) including: 
• the Victorian Transmission System (VTS) comprising the South West 
Pipeline (SWP), the Principal Transmission System (PTS) and the 
Interconnect; 
• the Moomba to Sydney Pipeline (MSP); 
• the Roma to Brisbane Pipeline (RBP);  
• the Carpentaria Gas Pipeline (CGP); and 
• a 50% interest in the SEA Gas Pipeline (SEA Gas). 
11. 
APA also has interests in a number of distribution networks and minority 
interests in energy infrastructure vehicles. 
Hastings Diversified Utilities Fund 
12. 
HDF is listed on the Australian Stock Exchange and owns 100% of Epic Energy 
Pty Ltd (Epic). Epic, through a number of subsidiaries, owns a number of major 
Australian gas transmission pipelines (further information provided below in 
paragraph 90) including: 
• the South West Queensland Pipeline (SWQP); 
• the Queensland to South Australia/New South Wales Link (QSN); 
• the Moomba to Adelaide Pipeline (MAPS); and  
• the Pilbara Energy Pipeline (PEPL) in Western Australia. 


APA Group - proposed acquisition of Hastings Diversified Utilities Fund 
 
3
Other pipeline operators 
13. 
Jemena is an Australian infrastructure company that is 100% owned by 
Singapore Power International, a large international utilities company owned by 
the sovereign wealth fund of Singapore.  
14. 
Jemena owns and manages the following eastern Australian gas infrastructure:  
• the Queensland Gas Pipeline (QGP); 
• the Eastern Gas Pipeline (EGP); 
• the VicHub facility; 
• the Colongra Gas Pipeline and storage facility; 
• the Jemena Gas Network in New South Wales; and 
• 50% ownership share of the ActewAGL gas distribution business. 
15. 
Jemena Asset Management (a Jemena entity) also manages the Central Ranges 
Pipeline on behalf of APA, and the South Gippsland Natural Gas Pipeline and 
Multinet Gas on behalf of the DUET Group. 
The proposed acquisition 
16. 
APA currently holds a 21.11% interest in HDF. On 14 December 2011, APA 
announced a takeover offer for the remaining stapled securities in HDF. 
17. 
APA’s bid for 100% of HDF is subject to a number of conditions including 
obtaining informal clearance from the ACCC and approval from the Foreign 
Investment Review Board. 
18. 
Post acquisition, APA will own more than 80% of the transmission pipelines in 
eastern Australia on the basis of both length and volume. 


APA Group - proposed acquisition of Hastings Diversified Utilities Fund 
 
4
Industry background 
19. 
The diagrams below illustrate the major gas production basins, transmission 
pipelines and demand centres in eastern Australia pre and post acquisition. 
Figure 1 – Eastern Australian gas transmission pipelines pre acquisition 
 


APA Group - proposed acquisition of Hastings Diversified Utilities Fund 
 
5
Figure 2 – Eastern Australian gas transmission pipelines post acquisition 
 


APA Group - proposed acquisition of Hastings Diversified Utilities Fund 
 
6
The gas supply chain 
Production 
20. 
Gas producers (producers) explore for and extract raw natural gas from 
petroleum reservoirs and coal seams. Producers then process the raw gas into 
pipeline quality natural gas for the domestic market or liquid natural gas (LNG) 
for export.  
21. 
Parties that contract for the transmission of gas along pipelines are referred to as 
shippers. Shippers include retailers, wholesalers, electricity generators and 
industrial users. 
22. 
Producers usually sell gas to shippers at the production point. The shipper then 
contracts with the transmission pipeline operator for the transmission of the gas. 
The ACCC is aware that, in some instances, producers also contract to acquire 
transmission themselves to enable them to sell gas to user parties at the point of 
delivery. In these circumstances the producer is also the shipper. 
23. 
Gas producers in Australia include Santos, Exxon-Mobil, BHP Billiton, AGL 
Energy and Origin Energy. 
24. 
It is common for oil and gas producers to establish joint ventures to help 
manage risk. For instance: 
• Cooper Basin Joint Venture – a joint venture led by Santos in relation to the 
production in South Australia’s Cooper Basin. The other participants are 
Beach and Origin Energy. The same companies participate with slightly 
different shares on the Queensland side of the Basin; 
• Longford gas production – a joint venture between Esso and BHP Billiton in 
relation to the production in the Gippsland Basin; and 
• Bass Gas – a joint venture between Origin Energy and Australian 
Worldwide Exploration in relation to the production in the Bass Basin. 
Transmission 
25. 
The gas transmission sector involves, among other things, the transportation of 
processed natural gas through high pressure pipelines from processing facilities 
to the entry point (‘city gate’) to the distribution system (which is discussed 
below in paragraph 27), or major manufacturing/power generation sites. Gas 
transmission pipelines typically have high operating pressure to optimise 
shipping capacity and can act as storage vessels as well as modes of 
transportation. 
26. 
APA, Epic and Jemena are the major pipeline operators in eastern Australia. 


APA Group - proposed acquisition of Hastings Diversified Utilities Fund 
 
7
Distribution and retail 
27. 
The gas distribution sector operates a lower pressure gas network for the 
transportation of gas from city gate delivery stations to residential, commercial 
and industrial sites. The gas retail sector sells the delivered gas to end users 
(both retail and wholesale). Gas distributors/retailers can be categorised as 
intermediaries, who transport gas from the city gate to end users of gas. 
28. 
At a national level, natural gas consumption is dominated by the electricity 
generation and manufacturing sectors, however, consumption varies between 
states. The electricity, manufacturing and mining sectors typically do not 
require the services of natural gas distributors or retailers and, with their 
substantial volumes, pay significantly lower prices per unit of natural gas than 
do residential customers. Larger users often negotiate directly with producers to 
purchase gas, and then negotiate with transmission pipeline operators for the 
delivery of gas. As the unit prices are lower for large users, transmission 
charges account for a higher proportion of the price. 
29. 
Major users of gas who purchase gas after transmission but prior to entry into 
the distribution system, include Xstrata, Rio Tinto, Visy, AGL Energy and 
Origin Energy. 
30. 
Major gas retailers who purchase gas from producers, utilise the transmission 
system, and then on-sell gas to residential, commercial and industrial users 
through the distribution systems, include TRUenergy, Lumo Energy, Alinta 
Energy, AGL Energy and Origin Energy. 
31. 
Due to the vertically integrated nature of their businesses and involvement in 
electricity generation and retailing operations, parties such as AGL Energy and 
Origin Energy are producers, shippers, retailers, wholesale customers and major 
users of gas. 
Gas supply and transportation contracts 
32. 
Generally shippers in the gas industry need to enter: 
• Gas Supply Agreements (GSA) with one or more gas producers for the 
supply of gas at a point of production; and 
• Gas Transportation Agreements (GTA) with one or more transmission 
pipeline operators for the transportation of their gas from one or more points 
of production to one or more points of demand.  
33. 
The ACCC understands that smaller shippers tend to contract with a limited 
number of producers and pipeline operators. In contrast, larger shippers enter a 
diverse portfolio of GSAs with various geographically disparate supply basins 
and various GTAs in respect of various transmission pipelines. 
34. 
The ACCC understands that for smaller shippers the delivered price of gas is 
likely to be the principal determinant of which pipeline(s) are used to supply a 
specific point of demand. 


APA Group - proposed acquisition of Hastings Diversified Utilities Fund 
 
8
35. 
In contrast, the ACCC understands that for larger shippers the minimum cost to 
service the shippers’ portfolio of demand will be the principal determinant as to 
which pipeline(s) are used to supply a specific point of demand. This means that 
a large shipper may not necessarily seek to minimise the delivered cost to a 
single point of demand, but rather seeks to minimise its costs across its portfolio 
of contracts. 
36. 
The length and terms of GSAs and GTAs vary depending on the parties, basins 
and pipelines involved. The ACCC understands that shippers tend to enter into 
long term GSAs and GTAs for firm forward haulage ‘base load supply’ (as 
described below in paragraph 37). ‘Base load supply’ contracts may include 
some ancillary service provisions (discussed below in paragraph 49). Shippers 
also enter into shorter term contracts on an as needed basis to address short term 
variations in demand or supply, for example during periods of supply basin or 
pipeline disruption or maintenance. 
Gas transportation services 
Forward haul 
37. 
Forward haul consists of ‘base load supply’ and involves the transportation of 
gas downstream from a point of production to a point of demand via one or 
more pipelines. Shippers are generally required to pay for a fixed amount of 
capacity on a pipeline (expressed as $/Maximum Daily Quantity (MDQ)) and a 
volume charge (based on GJ of gas actually transported). The proportion of the 
MDQ and of the volume charge in the total transportation price depends on the 
conditions agreed in each GTA. Forward haul services can be provided on a 
firm, as available or interruptible basis. 
38. 
Firm capacity refers to the contractual right of a shipper to use gas within a 
pipeline. Other than in exceptional circumstances (such as during a force 
majeure) this firm capacity is expected to be available at all times and enables 
shippers to inject/withdraw at one or more points. 
39. 
In circumstances where the pipeline has unused capacity after satisfying the 
firm capacity, that capacity can be on sold by the pipeline operator for use by 
other shippers. This is called “as available” capacity. 
40. 
Another type of non-firm capacity is 'interruptible capacity' which has similar 
characteristics to 'as available' capacity, but has the lowest priority in the event 
there is insufficient capacity to service all users’ nominations. 
Back haul 
41. 
Back haul involves the contractual right to the transportation of gas in a 
direction opposite to the aggregate physical flow of gas molecules in a pipeline. 
42. 
The ACCC understands that back haul services are generally provided on a firm 
capacity basis, except when the pipeline is not bi-directional (discussed at 
paragraph 48). 


APA Group - proposed acquisition of Hastings Diversified Utilities Fund 
 
9
Compression 
43. 
Compression involves increasing the pressure of gas by reducing the volume it 
occupies. Compression is mainly used to expand the capacity of a pipeline 
allowing the transportation of an additional volume of pressurised gas. The 
maximum pressure of transmission pipelines is approximately 15 Mpa, however 
some pipelines operate at lower pressures. 
44. 
For pipeline operators to be able to sell additional capacity provided by 
compression, they need to have compressor stations available on their pipeline. 
These stations may be owned by the pipeline operator or by a third party. 
45. 
Shippers can also use compressor stations installed at the supply basin by either 
the shipper, producer or a third party. 
46. 
Therefore, the ACCC understands that compression services are not “pipeline 
specific”, meaning that compression services can be contracted on one pipeline 
in order to make it possible for shippers to use another connected pipeline for 
the transportation of the pre-pressurised gas. 
Flow direction 
47. 
Gas travels down a pipeline from an origin of higher pressure to a destination of 
lower pressure. The aggregate flow of a pipeline will therefore be in one 
direction (the flow direction), from the place where the majority of gas is 
injected into the pipeline to the place where the majority of gas is withdrawn 
from the pipeline. 
48. 
The ACCC understands that a number of pipelines are ‘bi-directional’ because 
they possess compression capacity at both ends of the pipeline. These 
compression facilities would allow the pipeline to reverse the flow direction if 
there is sufficient demand to make it profitable to do so. The ACCC futher 
understands that uni-directional pipelines can be made bi-directional by 
installing compression facilities at both ends of the pipeline. 
Ancillary services 
49. 
While gas production facilities tend to have a relatively flat supply profile, gas 
demand tends to fluctuate over daily, weekly and seasonal periods. Fluctuations 
in gas demand occur for a range of reasons (such as weather) which cannot be 
accurately predicted in advance. Transmission pipeline operators offer ancillary 
services to assist shippers in managing the differences between supply and 
demand. 


APA Group - proposed acquisition of Hastings Diversified Utilities Fund 
 
10
Imbalance services 
50. 
GTAs typically provide shippers with some degree of flexibility to manage the 
variability in the demand for gas by end-users. The provisions that confer this 
flexibility include: 
• The imbalance provisions – an imbalance will occur when the volume of 
gas injected by the pipeline operator differs from the volume of gas 
withdrawn by the shipper. The terms on which imbalances are dealt with 
differ across pipelines and GTAs. The ACCC understands that some 
pipelines may allow an imbalance up to a specified threshold before 
imposing imbalance charges. 
• The overrun provisions – an overrun will occur when the volume of gas 
withdrawn by the shipper exceeds the Maximum Hourly Quantity (MHQ) 
or the MDQ specified in the shipper’s GTA. The terms on which overruns 
are dealt with differ across pipelines and GTAs. The ACCC understands 
that some pipelines allow overruns up to a specified threshold before 
imposing charges. The ACCC further understands that the charges payable 
for an overrun may be lower on some pipelines if the shipper informs the 
pipeline operator prior to the receipt or withdrawal of the gas and the 
overrun is authorised. 
Storage 
51. 
Storage – allows a shipper to inject more gas into a pipeline than it takes out on 
a particular day, up to a specified threshold (imbalance allowance) without 
incurring imbalance charges. The additional gas supplied into the pipeline 
(positive imbalance) may be withdrawn by the shipper at a later point in time. 
52. 
Storage and loan – allows a shipper to inject less gas than it takes out on any 
given day (negative imbalance) up to a specified level without incurring 
imbalance charges. The additional gas taken by the shipper (the ‘loan’) must be 
repaid within the time specified in the contract. 
53. 
If a shipper exceeds the positive or negative allowance provided by the storage 
and/or storage and loan services then the shipper will incur imbalance charges. 
54. 
The terms and conditions of ancillary services vary across pipelines and 
contracts. There can be variations in: 
• the price of the services; 
• time period – ranging from short term (days or weeks) to very long term  
(10 + years); 
• liability – in relation to which party (producer/shipper or pipeline operator) 
is liable in the scenario of an overrun or where the pipeline or supply basin 
is unavailable; and 
• how imbalances are dealt with, the imbalance percentage allowed and over 
what period. 


APA Group - proposed acquisition of Hastings Diversified Utilities Fund 
 
11
55. 
Lateral storage – shippers can procure the construction of a dedicated pipeline 
lateral (storage vessel) in close proximity to the point of demand that can be 
used to store gas during non-peak periods and to supply the gas to the point of 
demand during peak periods. 
56. 
Long term storage – there are dedicated underground storage facilities, such as 
the Western Underground Storage facility in Victoria, that allow a shipper to 
store gas that it purchases during the non-peak demand periods and access that 
gas during peak demand periods. 
Other services 
Construction, connection, extension and maintenance 
57. 
Construction and connection – includes the construction of new ‘traditional’ 
pipelines from a point of production to a point of distribution and the 
construction of a lateral pipeline connecting an existing transmission pipeline to 
a point of distribution or storage. 
58. 
Extension – involves lengthening an existing pipeline to traverse a greater 
distance. 
59. 
The ACCC understands that there are limits above which gas cannot be 
compressed. In order to increase capacity once the maximum level of 
compression has been reached pipeline operators can procure the construction 
of a ‘pipeline loop’. The ACCC understands that ‘pipeline looping’ involves the 
duplication of one or more portions of pipeline. 
60. 
The ACCC understands that the merger parties both procure and supply services 
for the construction and extension of pipelines. The merger parties also procure 
and supply services for the ongoing maintenance services to both laterals and 
transmission pipelines owned by third parties.  
Short Term Trading Market  
61. 
The Short Term Trading Market (STTM) is a day-ahead gas market that 
establishes a market price at a hub. Currently there are STTM hubs in Sydney, 
Adelaide and Brisbane. The STTM is a compulsory gross market – this means 
that all gas supplied to and acquired at a specific hub is transacted in the STTM, 
including gas that is supplied under existing long-term contracts. 
62. 
The market participants in the STTM are defined as follows: 
• Market operator – the Australian Energy Market Operator (AEMO) 
operates the STTM and operates a contingency gas scheme to balance 
supply and demand (but has no statutory responsibility to manage gas 
quality or system security). 
• Shippers – offer gas for sale and have contractual rights to haul gas on a 
hub-connected distribution network. 


APA Group - proposed acquisition of Hastings Diversified Utilities Fund 
 
12
• Network users – purchase gas (retailers or large customers) and have a 
contractual right to take gas from a hub-connected distribution network. 
• Pipeline operators – operate gas transmission pipelines. Pipeline operators 
maintain pressures at the network gates within agreed operating ranges and 
may also have a role in managing supply shortfall. 
• Network operators – manage and operate the distribution network and are 
responsible for operation of the network during a supply shortfall. 
63. 
The STTM applies different prices to gas transacted under different forms of 
allowed transactions:  
• Ex-ante market transactions and ex-ante market price – Shippers place 
offers to sell gas and network users place bids to buy gas on a given day. 
Gas is scheduled from the lowest to highest price and, a day ahead, the 
market operator determines the market price and issues a market schedule of 
gas flows. Gas that is supplied and withdrawn in accordance with the market 
schedule is settled at the ex-ante market price. 
• Imbalance and ex-post imbalance price – If the quantity of gas that flows to 
and from the hub does not match the market schedule then the imbalance is 
settled at an imbalance charge – not the market price. 
• If the shipper supplies more gas than scheduled then it will receive an 
imbalance payment that is materially lower than the market price. If a 
shipper provides less gas than scheduled then it will pay an imbalance 
charge that is materially higher than the market price. Shippers may use 
intra-day nomination services to address imbalances. 
 
64. 
The ACCC understands that the market risk represented by the imbalance 
charge encourages large shippers to diversify their portfolio of GSAs and GTAs 
to ensure that they are able to minimise imbalance costs. 
Victoria 
65. 
Victoria established a spot makret for gas in 1999 to manage gas flows on the 
VTS. The VTS, comprising the SWP and PTS and the Interconnect, is the 
primary system for the transmission of natural gas at high pressure in Victoria. 
The VTS is not a traditional point to point pipeline as there are a number of 
injection and withdrawal points. 
66. 
The market allows participants to trade gas supply imbalances,based on 
injections and withdrawals, on a daily basis. The AEMO operates both the 
wholesale market and the VTS. 
Gas swaps 
67. 
Gas swaps are a mechanism that producers and shippers can use in order to 
bypass or minimise the use of transmission pipelines. 


APA Group - proposed acquisition of Hastings Diversified Utilities Fund 
 
13
68. 
At its simplest, a swap involves shippers utilising their portfolio in a manner 
that will minimise transportation costs to obtain a lower portfolio cost.  
69. 
Swaps can be conducted internally within a shippers’ portfolio or externally 
through negotiation between two shippers. 
70. 
An effect of a swap may be lost revenue to a pipeline or pipelines. This effect is 
materially higher where parties can totally avoid the capacity charges of a new 
or existing pipeline.  
71. 
The complexity and risk involved in a swap depends on a number of factors 
including the volume of gas, timeframe and distance. 
72. 
The ACCC understands that the term ‘swap’ can encompass a variety of 
meanings within the gas industry. The ACCC has used the following terms 
when referring to swaps: 
• internal swap – a restructure of a shipper portfolio in a manner which will 
minimise delivered and/or transmission costs to obtain a lower portfolio 
cost; and 
• external swap – a restructure of a shipper portfolio in coordination with 
another producer/shipper in a manner which will overcome transportation 
costs to obtain a lower delivered cost of gas. 
• The ACCC understands that internal and external swaps can be a: 
o pure swaps – a swap at points of production; or 
o partial swaps – a swap at points of demand. 
73. 
The ACCC considers that the ability of a shipper to perform a pure/partial 
internal swap will depend on the level of diversity in their portfolio. 
74. 
The ability of a shipper to perform a pure/partial external swap will depend on 
whether a counterparty can be found that has an existing obligation to provide 
gas to a location that can also be provided by the shipper seeking to enter into 
the swap. The ability to enter into a swap will also depend on whether the 
arrangement can be structured so that the counterparty is no worse off as a 
result of entering into the swap.  
75. 
From the perspective of the shipper seeking to enter into the swap, a swap will 
only constitute a viable alternative to transporting the gas via an existing 
pipeline if the overall cost of entering into a swap is less than or equal to the 
charges that would be levied by the pipeline operator. 
76. 
The ACCC considers that a swap is a mechanism that allows competition 
between both connected and unconnected pipelines. 


APA Group - proposed acquisition of Hastings Diversified Utilities Fund 
 
14
Figure 3 - Example of a partial external gas swap 
The example below illustrates how gas swaps can be practically used to bypass the 
MSP. 
 
 
Suppose that Retailer A has procured a gas supply from Moomba at a price PMoomba, 
and is required to service demand in Sydney. Retailer A can do this by taking this gas 
to service their Sydney demand centre using forward haul along the MSP  
(Total profit Retailer A = PSyd - PCooper - PMSP). 
 
Suppose that Retailer B has procured a gas supply from Otway at a price POtway, and is 
required to service demand in Adelaide. Retailer B can do this by taking this gas to 
service their Adelaide demand centre using forward haul down SEA Gas  
(Total profit Retailer B = PAdelaide - POtway - PSEA Gas). 
 
Given a scenario where MSP raises its prices, Retailer A may wish to bypass use of 
the MSP. They can do this by coordinating a swap agreement with Retailer B 
(assuming Retailer A will pay Retailer B an amount equivalent to PSwap) such that: 
 
• Retailer A can send the gas that they purchased from Moomba along MAPS to 
Adelaide to service Retailer B’s demand  
(Total profit Retailer A = PSyd - PMoomba - PMAPS - PSwap). 
• Retailer B can send the gas that they purchased from Otway along SWP, and 
up the EGP to Sydney in order to service Retailer A’s demand (Total profit 
Retailer B = PAdel- POtway - PSWP - PPTS - PEGP + PSwap) 
 
This swap agreement has allowed for Retailer A to bypass the use of MSP. 
 
The swap is commercially viable when the total profit the retailers are both able to 
attain in its absence is less than the total profit they are both able to attain whilst using 
the swap. 
 
It is clear that the swap is more likely to be materially effective if the price on MSP is 
relatively high.  


APA Group - proposed acquisition of Hastings Diversified Utilities Fund 
 
15
With/without test 
77. 
Section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Act) prohibits mergers 
or acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of 
substantially lessening competition in a market. In assessing a merger pursuant 
to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC must consider the likely effects of the 
proposed acquisition by comparing the likely future competitive environment if 
the acquisition proceeds (the “with” position) to the likely competitive 
environment if the acquisition does not proceed (the “without” position or 
“counterfactual” position) to determine whether the proposed acquisition is 
likely to substantially lessen competition in any relevant market.  
78. 
Based on the information currently available, the ACCC considers that the most 
likely counterfactual will involve a situation where there is no change to the 
ownership of transmission pipelines.  
79. 
Market participants have advised the ACCC that the Australian gas industry is 
in a state of flux with potentially significant changes occurring over the coming 
years. While these developments are likely to occur with or without the 
proposed acquisition, it remains necessary for the ACCC to have regard to these 
matters in its assessment of the proposed acquisition. Some of the more 
significant developments are set out below.  
LNG exports 
80. 
The ACCC understands that the commencement of LNG exports out of 
Gladstone in 2014 is expected to drive significant increases in the demand for 
gas. This will increase the demand for gas transmission and may require 
pipeline expansions and potentially changes in flow directions of certain 
pipelines.  
81. 
Market participants have advised the ACCC that the increased demand for gas 
likely to arise from the commencement of LNG exports in 2014 has the 
potential to alter the net direction of gas haulage from south to north as opposed 
to the current landscape where gas moves south from Queensland and north 
from Victoria. 
New gas reserves 
82. 
Market participants have indicated that new pipeline developments are likely to 
be required for the transportation of natural gas from the emerging Gunnedah 
supply basin to both domestic demand centres and export facilities in 
Gladstone. 
83. 
Market participants have also indicated that new gas transmission pipelines 
duplicating the RBP and the SWP may be feasible.  


APA Group - proposed acquisition of Hastings Diversified Utilities Fund 
 
16
Implementation of a Carbon Pricing Mechanism  
84. 
The ACCC understands that the implementation of a carbon pricing mechanism 
is likely to drive greater demand for natural gas as a fuel for electricity 
generation due to its lower emissions profile compared to coal.  
85. 
The ACCC notes that the Australian Government has announced specific 
measures to remove 2,000 megawatts of coal-powered generation capacity by 
2020 under the Contracts for Closure component of the Energy Security Fund. 
This will require equivalent capacity to be generated from other fuel sources, 
with a large percentage of this expected to come from natural gas. 
86. 
The ACCC notes Australian Bureau of Agricultural and Resource Economics 
(ABARE) predictions quoted by HDF in its Target Statement and reproduced 
below in Figure 4 as indicative of the likely growth in natural gas demand. 
Figure 4 – Evolution of energy consumption by energy source 
 
87. 
The ACCC also notes AEMO predictions quoted by HDF in its Target 
Statement and reproduced below in Figure 5 as indicative of the likely growth 
in demand for natural gas as a fuel source for electricity generation. 


APA Group - proposed acquisition of Hastings Diversified Utilities Fund 
 
17
Figure 5 – Capacity of committed and proposed electricity generation projects by 
energy source  
 
 
 
Market inquiries 
88. 
On 16 December 2011, the ACCC commenced market inquiries regarding the 
proposed acquisition. Responses were received from a range of interested 
parties including producers, shippers and retailers, and parties with interests in 
gas transmission pipelines.  
The ACCC invites interested parties to comment on the likely developments 
impacting on the demand for, and supply of, gas and how these developments 
may affect the demand for pipeline capacity, flows on pipelines and 
competitive constraints on the merged firm. 
 
In particular, the ACCC would welcome views on: 
 
• the potential impact on the Australian gas industry resulting from 
developments in: 
 
o LNG exports; 
o diminishing gas reserves in existing gas basins; 
o new gas reserves in existing and new gas basins; 
o changes in domestic gas demand; 
o a reversal in flow of one or more pipelines; and 
o other relevant future changes; and 
 
• whether, and to what extent, any market changes identified above will change 
the incentives for new entry into the relevant market(s). 


APA Group - proposed acquisition of Hastings Diversified Utilities Fund 
 
18
Market definition 
89. 
The purpose of market definition is to identify the close competitive constraints 
on the pipeline(s). That is, to identify potential close substitutes or alternatives 
available to gas producers and shippers that may constrain the pricing of the 
services provided by each pipeline. In providing comments on market 
definition, it would be helpful if parties could provide examples of which 
alternatives would likely be utilised by market participants, both in the short 
term (within the life of current contracts) and the long term (once current 
contracts expire) in response to an increase in the prices charged by individual 
pipelines. 
90. 
The proposed acquisition will result in the aggregation of ownership of the 
following transmission pipelines: 
• the SWQP, which is used for the transportation of gas from Wallumbilla to 
the entry point of the QSN Link at Ballera; 
• the QSN Link, which is used for the transportation of gas from Ballera to 
the entry point of both the MSP and the MAPS; 
• the MSP, which is used for the transportation of gas from Moomba to 
Sydney, Canberra, and regional locations in New South Wales and Victoria 
(via the Interconnect); 
• the MAPS, which is used for the transportation of gas from Moomba to 
Adelaide and regional locations in South Australia;  
• the RBP, which is used for the transportation of gas from Roma to Brisbane; 
• a 50% interest in the SEA Gas, which is used for the transportation of gas 
from Port Campbell to Adelaide and regional locations in South Australia; 
and 
• the VTS, comprising the SWP, PTS and the Interconnect, which is used for 
the transportation of gas from a number of supply basins to Melbourne. 
Product dimension 
91. 
The ACCC understands that both APA and Epic are involved in: 
• gas transmission;  
• supply of ancillary services; and 
• construction, connection, extension and maintenance of gas transmission 
pipelines. 


APA Group - proposed acquisition of Hastings Diversified Utilities Fund 
 
19
 
 
Geographic dimension 
92. 
The ACCC is yet to form a view on the appropriate geographic dimension of 
the relevant markets. 
Eastern Australia 
93. 
The eastern Australian gas transmission pipeline system became fully connected 
in 2009 with the completion of the QSN. This created an integrated pipeline 
network between the three main supply regions (Victoria, the Cooper Basin and 
eastern Queensland) and each of the major demand centres (Adelaide, 
Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane and Canberra). 
94. 
Some market participants submit that the existence of multiple routes from a 
given supply centre to a given demand centre and the use of gas swaps mean 
that competition between pipelines should be analysed in an eastern Australian 
market for gas transmission and ancillary services.  
The ACCC invites interested parties to comment on the appropriate product 
dimension of the relevant markets. 
 
In particular, the ACCC would welcome views on: 
 
• whether transmission of gas and ancillary services are correctly characterised 
as separate product markets or should be included in the same product 
market. 
• whether substitution occurs between: 
o specific products on different pipelines (e.g. back haul services on 
one pipeline and ancillary services on another); or  
o bundles of services on different pipelines (e.g. combinations of back 
haul services, ancillary services and firm forward haulage). 
• whether, and to what extent, the demand for ancillary services on one 
pipeline is independent from the demand for the transmission of gas on the 
same pipeline. 


APA Group - proposed acquisition of Hastings Diversified Utilities Fund 
 
20
Individual markets for each demand and supply centre 
95. 
Some market participants have advised that competitive tension exists for the 
supply of gas transmission services from individual supply basins and to 
individual demand centres. The ACCC is considering whether the relevant 
markets might be more appropriately characterised as the transmission of gas to 
particular demand centres, and/or the transmission of gas from particular supply 
centres. 
The ACCC invites market participants to comment on the appropriate 
geographic dimension of the relevant markets. 
 
In particular, the ACCC would welcome views on: 
 
• whether it is commercial, or likely to be commercial, for shippers to ship gas 
from a different basin to the same demand centre in response to an increase 
in transmission pricing. 
 
For example, if prices were to rise on the MSP, would shippers seek to 
acquire gas from producers in the Gippsland Basin (rather than the Cooper 
Basin) and ship it to Sydney via the EGP? 
 
• whether it is commercial, or likely to be commercial, for shippers to use 
alternative transmission routes between a particular single supply basin and 
demand centre. 
 
For example, to get gas from the Cooper Basin to Adelaide, if prices were to 
rise on the MAPS, would a shipper find it feasible to utilise the alternative 
transmission route of the MSP, the Interconnect, the PTS, the SWP and SEA 
Gas? 
 
• whether it is likely that producers would seek to supply gas to customers in a 
different demand centre in response to a price increase on one or more 
pipeline. 
 
For example, if prices were to rise on the MSP, would producers in the 
Cooper Basin actively seek more customers at Gladstone or in Adelaide? 
 
• the extent to which internal and external swaps provide the scope for 
shippers to substitute between gas pipelines in response to increases in 
transmission prices. 
 
For example, if a shipper has contracted secure gas supply from the Cooper 
Basin, can the shipper meet contracted demand in Sydney and avoid the use 
of the MSP through the use of ‘swaps’?  
 
In providing views on the above matters, please consider what is likely to be 
profitable in both the short term (within the life of current contracts) and the long 
term (once current contracts expire). 


APA Group - proposed acquisition of Hastings Diversified Utilities Fund 
 
21
Functional dimension 
96. 
The functional dimension of a market captures the vertical elements of the 
production chain over which competition or substitution occurs.  
97. 
Some market participants have suggested that the functional dimension of the 
market should include both gas production and gas transmission. This seems to 
be based on the argument that substitution only occurs at demand centres in 
response to differences in the delivered price of gas. That is, competition occurs 
between different gas producer/pipeline combinations serving the same demand 
centre. 
98. 
The ACCC notes however, that gas production and gas transmission are 
separate activities and involve discrete transactions in the supply chain, and 
there is little overlap in the ownership of gas production facilities and gas 
pipelines. In order to combine gas production and transmission into a single 
relevant functional market, substitution between sources of gas supply 
(transported via different pipelines) would need to be sufficient to constrain gas 
transmission prices. 
 
Market definitions currently being considered 
99. 
The ACCC is currently considering a number of market definitions that may be 
relevant to the consideration of the proposed acquisition: 
• An integrated market for the transmission of gas and supply of ancillary 
services, via one or more pipelines from eastern Australian points of 
production to eastern Australian points of demand. 
• An integrated market for the transmission of gas via one or more pipelines 
from eastern Australian points of production to eastern Australian points of 
demand. 
• An integrated market for the supply of ancillary services to facilitate the 
transmission of gas via one or more pipelines from eastern Australian points 
of production to eastern Australian points of demand. 
• A number of markets for the transmission of gas via one or more pipelines 
to end users in, relevantly: 
 
 
i) 
Sydney; 
 
 
ii) 
Canberra; 
 
 
iii) 
Adelaide; 
 
 
iv) 
Regional locations serviced by the MSP; 
The ACCC invites interested parties to comment on whether the relevant 
markets to assess the competitive effects of the transaction should encompass 
both gas production and transmission. 


APA Group - proposed acquisition of Hastings Diversified Utilities Fund 
 
22
 
 
v) 
Regional locations serviced by the MAPS; and 
 
 
vi) 
Regional locations serviced by SEA Gas. 
• A number of markets for the supply of ancillary services on one or more 
pipelines to facilitate transmission of gas via one or more pipelines to end 
users in i – vi above. 
• A number of markets for the transmission of gas and supply of ancillary 
services, via one or more pipelines, to end users in i-vi above. 
• A market for the supply of construction, connection, extension and 
maintenance services for gas transmission pipelines in Australia. 
 
 
 
Statement of Issues 
100. 
For the purposes of this Statement of Issues, the issues in this matter are divided 
into three categories, ‘issues of concern’, ‘issues that may raise concerns’ and 
‘issues unlikely to pose concern’. 
Issues of concern 
Aggregation of ownership of gas transmission pipelines 
101. 
The ACCC’s key concern is that the proposed acquisition will result in APA 
owning the majority of the gas transmission pipelines in eastern Australia. In 
particular, post acquisition, APA will own: 
• all of the pipelines servicing the Cooper Basin; and 
• all of the pipelines servicing Adelaide. 
102. 
Consequently, shippers may have limited alternatives to dealing with APA for 
the transportation of gas. In these circumstances, the ACCC is concerned that, 
post acquisition, APA will have an increased incentive and/or ability to: 
The ACCC invites interested parties to provide views on the appropriate 
markets in which to assess the proposed acquisition. 
• Interested parties are encouraged to provide examples of the alternative 
services which market participants would be likely to use both in the short 
term (within the life of current contracts) and in the long term (once 
current contracts expire) in response to a price increase. 
The relevant consideration is what substitution options operate to constrain pricing 
and how and when this substitution occurs. 
• Which substitution options are likely to effectively constrain prices? 


APA Group - proposed acquisition of Hastings Diversified Utilities Fund 
 
23
• raise transportation charges on the MSP; 
• raise transportation charges on the MAPS; 
• standardise pricing and service offerings; and 
• raise the price of ancillary services. 
 
Increased incentive and/or ability to raise transportation charges on the MSP 
103. 
In assessing the potential effect of the proposed acquisition on the incentive 
and/or ability for the merged firm to increase transmission charges on the MSP, 
the ACCC has commenced from the premise that substitution options available 
to both users of gas and producers of gas can potentially constrain the exercise 
of market power by a pipeline operator.  
104. 
In the event that the operator of the MSP increases the price of transporting gas 
from the Cooper Basin to Sydney, the ACCC considers it likely that both: 
• the delivered price of gas in Sydney (delivered from the Cooper Basin) will 
increase; and  
• the price of gas at the production point at the Cooper Basin (to be delivered 
to Sydney) will decrease.  
105. 
The first outcome will encourage users in Sydney to seek alternative sources of 
supply (e.g. gas from the Gippsland Basin shipped to Sydney via the EGP). The 
second outcome will encourage gas producers in the Cooper Basin to seek 
customers in either or both Adelaide (via the MAPS) and 
Wallumbilla/Gladstone (via the SWQP/QSN). Both types of substitution will 
act to constrain the price charged on the MSP.  
106. 
Whether it is profitable for the operator of the MSP to raise transportation 
charges on that pipeline will depend on a number of factors including: 
• the decrease in volumes on the MSP resulting from the price increase; 
• the increase in per unit margin on the MSP from the price increase; and 
• any subsequent increase in gas flows on other pipelines owned by the firm 
resulting from the price increase. 
107. 
The ACCC considers that an increase in transportation charges on the MSP is 
likely to result in: 
• less flows on the MSP; 
• more flows on the EGP; and 
• more flows on the SWQP/QSN and/or the MAPS. 
108. 
Pre-acquisition, APA gains no benefit from the additional flows on the EGP, the 
MAPS and/or the SWQP/QSN. 
109. 
Post acquisition, APA will gain a benefit from any increase in flows on either of 
the MAPS or the SWQP/QSN. 


APA Group - proposed acquisition of Hastings Diversified Utilities Fund 
 
24
110. 
In light of this, the ACCC considers that APA will have an increased incentive 
and/or ability to increase transportation charges on the MSP post acquisition. 
The ACCC invites interested parties to comment on whether the proposed 
acquisition is likely to increase the incentive and/or ability of APA to raise 
transportation charges on the MSP. 
In particular, the ACCC would welcome views on: 
Constraints from pipelines leaving the Cooper Basin 
• whether, and to what extent, gas producers in the Cooper Basin would seek 
contracts with customers to increase flows on the MAPS and the SWQP/QSN in 
response to an increase in the price of transport on the MSP; 
• the average duration of the current GTAs for gas leaving the Cooper Basin and 
when these contracts will terminate or be open to renegotiation; 
• whether, while the current GTAs are in place, shippers still negotiate with APA 
and Epic for the provision of “as available” forward haul services on the MAPS, 
the SWQP/QSN and the MSP; 
• whether current prices (per GJ/km) for the transportation of gas on the MAPS, the 
SWQP/QSN and the MSP are significantly different. If this is the case, please 
provide your views as to the reasons for the different pricing; 
• whether, and to what extent, the common ownership of the MSP, the SWQP/QSN 
and the MAPS would reduce shippers’ bargaining power; 
• whether any single shipper uses more than one of the different routes from the 
Cooper Basin and, if this is the case, what factors influence the allocation of gas 
to be transported out of the Cooper Basin using the different routes; 
Constraints from pipelines servicing Sydney 
• to what extent would shippers seek to acquire gas from producers in the 
Gippsland Basin and ship it to Sydney via the EGP in response to an increase in 
the price of transportation on the MSP; 
• whether the indirect routes to transport gas from the Cooper Basin to Sydney, 
using the MAPS, impose a constraint on the transport prices of the MSP and 
provide shippers with some level of bargaining power; 
• whether shippers would consider and be able to transport gas from the Cooper 
Basin to Sydney via routes that avoid or partially avoid the MSP, in response to 
an increase in transport prices on the MSP;  
• whether the proposed acquisition is likely to result in APA having the incentive 
and/or ability to increase the price charged to transport gas from the Cooper 
Basin to Sydney; and 


APA Group - proposed acquisition of Hastings Diversified Utilities Fund 
 
25
• whether an increase in the cost of transport for gas originating in the Cooper 
Basin is likely to result in an increase in the delivered price of gas in Sydney. 
In providing views on the above matters, please consider what is likely to be profitable in 
both the short term (within the life of current contracts) and the long term (once current 
contracts expire). 
 
Increased incentive and/or ability to raise transportation charges on the MAPS  
111. 
The ACCC considers that if the operator of the MAPS increases the price of 
transporting gas from the Cooper Basin to Adelaide, it is likely that both: 
• the delivered price of gas in Adelaide (delivered from the Cooper Basin) will 
increase; and  
• the price of gas at the production point at the Cooper Basin (to be delivered to 
Adelaide) will decrease.  
112. 
The first outcome will encourage users in Adelaide to seek alternative sources 
of supply (i.e. gas from the Otway Basin to Adelaide via SEA Gas). The second 
outcome will encourage gas producers in the Cooper Basin to seek customers in 
either or both Sydney (via the MSP) and Wallumbilla/Gladstone (via the 
SWQP/QSN). Both types of substitution will act to constrain the price charged 
on the MAPS.  
113. 
Whether it is profitable for the operator of the MAPS to raise transportation 
charges on that pipeline will depend on a number of factors including: 
• the decrease in volumes on the MAPS resulting from the price increase; 
• the increase in per unit margin on the MAPS from the price increase; and 
• any subsequent increase of gas flows on other pipelines owned by the firm 
resulting from the price increase. 
114. 
The ACCC considers that an increase in transportation charges on the MAPS is 
likely to result in: 
• less flows on the MAPS; 
• more flows on SEA Gas; and 
• more flows on the MSP and/or the SWQP/QSN. 
115. 
Pre-acquisition, the current operator of the MAPS (Epic) gains no benefit from 
any additional flows on the MSP and no benefit from increased flows on SEA 
Gas.  


APA Group - proposed acquisition of Hastings Diversified Utilities Fund 
 
26
116. 
Post acquisition, APA will own the MAPS, the MSP and 50% of SEA Gas. 
Hence it will gain a benefit from any increase in flows on the MSP and SEA 
Gas as a result of increased prices on the MAPS.  
117. 
In light of this, the ACCC considers that APA, as the new operator of the 
MAPS, will have an increased incentive and/or ability to increase transportation 
charges on the MAPS post acquisition. 
118. 
While SEA Gas is currently fully contracted to foundation shippers (and will be 
until the end of 2018), the ACCC is concerned that post acquisition, as the 50% 
owner of SEA Gas, APA may: 
• have an increase incentive and/or ability to block the expansion of the current 
capacity of SEA Gas, in order to force greater utilisation of the MAPS; 
• after the expiry of the foundation contracts, have the incentive and/or ability 
to refuse to contract with shippers, other than the foundation shippers, in 
relation to SEA Gas, with the MAPS being the only other alternative; 
• have an increased incentive and/or ability to prevent foundation shippers from 
trading their future contracted firm haulage capacity with other shippers on 
the SEA Gas pipeline, with the MAPS becoming their only alternative to 
supply Adelaide; and 


APA Group - proposed acquisition of Hastings Diversified Utilities Fund 
 
27
• know the price for the transportation of gas and available capacities of the 
two pipelines entering Adelaide. This is likely to reduce the bargaining power 
that current and potential shippers may have and/or would have after the 
cessation of the current foundation shipper contracts. Shippers would no 
longer be able to play SEA Gas and the MAPS off against each other, given 
that APA would negotiate knowing, and being able to influence, the 
transportation prices on both these pipelines. 
 
Increased incentive and/or ability to standardise pricing and service offering 
119. 
The ACCC is concerned that, post acquisition, APA will have an increased 
incentive and/or ability to seek to operate all of its pipelines in much the same 
manner as APA currently operates the VTS. That is, shippers would be required 
to pay a fixed charge to inject gas into and withdraw gas from the system. 
The ACCC invites interested parties to comment on whether the proposed 
acquisition is likely to increase the incentive and/or ability of APA to raise 
transportation charges on the MAPS.  
 
In particular, the ACCC would welcome comments on: 
 
Constraints from pipelines leaving the Cooper Basin 
• whether, and to what extent, gas producers in the Cooper Basin would seek 
contracts with customers to increase flows on the MSP and the SWQP/QSN in 
response to an increase in the price of transport on the MAPS; 
Constraints from pipelines servicing Adelaide 
• whether an expansion of the SEA Gas pipeline is likely to be necessary in the 
short, medium and/or long term; 
• whether APA, post acquisition, would have the incentive and/or ability to block 
the expansion of SEA Gas; 
• whether, and to what extent, the proposed acquisition would reduce the 
bargaining power of both existing and potential shippers of gas to Adelaide; 
• whether a reduction in competition between SEA Gas and the MAPS is likely to 
result in an increase in the transmission price of gas into Adelaide; 
• the extent to which an increase in the transmission price of gas into Adelaide is 
likely to result in an increase in the delivered price of gas in Adelaide and of the 
intra-day nomination prices on SEA Gas and the MAPS; and 
• whether any expected new pipeline development in the future is likely to 
constitute an alternative to SEA Gas and the MAPS for the transportation of gas 
to Adelaide. 


APA Group - proposed acquisition of Hastings Diversified Utilities Fund 
 
28
120. 
The ACCC is concerned that an ‘injection withdrawal model’ would be likely 
to: 
• move supply flexibility and control from the shipper to the merged firm; 
• reduce the transparency of transport costs; and 
• reduce the number of possible counterparties with equal and opposite supply 
and customer demand requirements that could be considered for an external 
swap. 
 
 
121. 
The ACCC is concerned that other current or future pipeline operators would 
not be able to compete with, or provide substitutes for, APA’s product and 
service offers. 
122. 
The ACCC is concerned that, without the ability to develop or adjust their 
portfolios to effectively manage their market risk, shippers may be forced to 
accept a less efficient mix of and/or redundant, gas transportation and/or 
ancillary services. 
123. 
Market participants submit that they currently have a range of alternative 
combinations of services and routes to meet the demand requirements in any 
given location. These options include:  
• forward haul; 
• back haul; 
• imbalance services; 
• storage services; and 
The ACCC invites interested parties to comment on the extent to which 
customers can bypass APA’s network, particularly in relation to: 
• the ability to utilise pure external/internal gas swaps; 
• the ability to utilise partial external/internal gas swaps; 
• the ability to utilise gas transmission services ; and 
• other strategies/methods which may currently be utilised to bypass APA’s 
network. 
The ACCC encourages interested parties to provide examples of:  
• how swaps have been utilised in the past to bypass one or more pipeline(s); 
and  
• how the proposed acquisition will affect the ability of shippers to engage in 
swaps in the future. 


APA Group - proposed acquisition of Hastings Diversified Utilities Fund 
 
29
• swaps. 
124. 
Market inquiries indicate that competition for the transmission of gas and 
supply of ancillary services provides incentives for pipeline operators to find 
ways to utilise their assets to deliver innovative and flexible offers to shippers.  
125. 
Market inquiries indicate that, since the completion of the QSN Link, shippers 
have access to several potential supply sources through an interconnected 
network. Market participants submit that this facilitates inter-basin competition 
and competition for the transmission of gas and encourages pipeline operators 
to offer an efficient mix of services across pipelines, allowing shippers to 
effectively manage market risk.  
126. 
Market inquiries indicate that shippers are currently able to combine the above 
elements in a range of ways utilising both APA and Epic owned pipelines. In 
particular, market participants indicate that if APA were to raise its prices, 
whilst some use of an APA pipeline would likely be required, the majority of 
other elements could be obtained from other pipeline operators. 
127. 
In this way, competition may exist for each element of the ‘package’ required to 
transmit gas to a particular demand centre, given that shippers can contract 
different and autonomous services from different pipeline operators, to optimise 
their contracted pipeline capacity for the transportation of gas between Victoria, 
South Australia and NSW and to access Queensland. 
128. 
Market inquiries indicate that the incentive and/or ability of APA to adopt an 
‘injection withdrawal model’ and/or bundling strategy is likely to increase post 
acquisition, because: 
• APA would own and control most of the pipelines in eastern Australia 
(more than 80% of all transmission pipelines in eastern Australia, by length 
and by throughput) and some of these pipelines are interconnected; 
• other pipeline operators would not be able to offer ‘bundled’ packages to 
compete with APA’s offer; and a combination of the ‘unbundled’ offers of 
other pipeline operators would not be an alternative to APA’s bundled offer. 
 
The ACCC invites interested parties to comment on the likely effect of the proposed 
acquisition on the ability and incentive of the merged firm to adopt a bundled or 
‘injection withdrawal’ model across pipelines. 
In particular, the ACCC would welcome views on: 
• how different pipeline operators currently offer an efficient mix of services across 
pipelines; 
• whether the proposed acquisition would give or increase APA’s ability to adopt an 
‘injection withdrawal model’ and/or bundling strategy across pipelines;  
• whether, and to what extent, an ‘injection withdrawal model’ and/or bundling 
strategy across pipelines affects the ability of shippers to manage transportation costs 


APA Group - proposed acquisition of Hastings Diversified Utilities Fund 
 
30
or exercise bargaining power; and 
• whether the adoption by APA of a model of this kind would affect the delivered price 
of gas. 
The ACCC encourages interested parties to provide detailed examples to support their 
comments on these points.  
 
Increased incentive and/or ability to raise the price of storage and other ancillary 
services 
129. 
The ACCC understands that customers generally have two different purposes in 
acquiring pipeline storage and other ancillary services. 
130. 
The first purpose of storage is for use in gas-fired peaking plants. This storage 
enables power stations to accumulate gas over time at a point near the power 
station. The storage is typically drawn down rapidly during high price periods in 
the National Electricity Market (NEM). Storage for this purpose must be 
located in close proximity to the peaking plants. The ACCC understands that 
dedicated lateral storage is typically used for this purpose. 
131. 
The second purpose of storage and other ancillary services is for use by retailers 
to service peaks in gas demand at an end retail demand centre. These are the 
storage and storage and loan services (discussed in paragraphs 51 and 52). 
132. 
The ACCC considers that existing APA and Epic pipelines do not compete in 
providing storage for gas-fired peaking plants. However the ACCC considers 
that APA and Epic do compete for the provision of storage, storage and loan 
and other ancillary services for use by retailers to service peaks on at least the 
following pipelines: 
• the MSP and the MAPS; and 
• the MSP and the SWQP/QSN 
 
The MSP and the MAPS 
133. 
The ACCC understands that shippers who have GTAs on both the MSP and the 
MAPS substitute storage, storage and loan and other ancillary services between 
the two pipelines. 
134. 
Market participants indicate that a shipper intending to store gas on the MSP 
could respond to a price increase of this service by choosing to store gas on the 
MAPS and vice versa. The ACCC understands that when the shipper later 
decides to utilise the stored gas, the shipper could transport it via the MAPS or 
the MSP. 


APA Group - proposed acquisition of Hastings Diversified Utilities Fund 
 
31
The MSP and the SWQP/QSN 
135. 
The ACCC is considering whether shippers who have GTAs on both the MSP 
and the SWQP and/or the QSN could substitute storage, storage and loan 
services and other ancillary services between these pipelines. 
136. 
Market participants indicate that currently if APA were to raise its storage 
prices on the MSP, storage on the SWQP/QSN could be obtained from Epic and 
vice versa.  
137. 
The ACCC is concerned that post acquisition APA may have an increased 
incentive and/or ability to raise the price of storage and other ancillary services 
on the MSP, the MAPS and the SWQP/QSN as post acquisition shippers would 
have no alternative but to utilise APA owned pipelines for storage of gas from 
the Cooper or Surat Bowen Basins. 
138. 
The ACCC recognises that this kind of storage and other ancillary service 
substitution requires shippers to possess GTAs that include storage and other 
ancillary services on more than one of the MSP, the MAPS, the SWQP and the 
QSN. 
 
Effect of storage prices on Adelaide and Sydney STTMs 
139. 
The ACCC understands that the STTM ex-ante market price is determined 
when shippers place offers to sell gas and network users place bids to buy gas 
on a given day. Gas is scheduled from the lowest to highest price, and, a day 
ahead, the market operator determines the market price and issues a market 
schedule of gas flows. 
The ACCC invites interested parties to comment on whether the proposed 
acquisition is likely to increase the incentive and/or ability of APA to increase 
the price of ancillary services on the MSP, the MAPS, the SWQP and the QSN. 
 
In particular, the ACCC would welcome views on: 
 
• substitutability between the ancillary services provided on the following 
pipelines:  
 
o MAPS and MAPS; and 
o MSP and SWQP/QSN;  
 
• whether there are alternatives that are likely to constrain APA from 
increasing ancillary service prices on these pipelines; and 
 
• whether the proposed acquisition is likely to lead to an increase in the price 
of these ancillary services. 


APA Group - proposed acquisition of Hastings Diversified Utilities Fund 
 
32
140. 
The ACCC is considering whether, if the price of storage rises as a result of the 
proposed acquisition, shippers would then raise the offer price they place in the 
STTM in order to reflect their higher cost. 
141. 
The ACCC is considering whether a higher offer price by shippers would 
translate to a higher level of gas prices in the STTM. 
Barriers to entry 
 
142. 
The ACCC is concerned that there are significant barriers to entry in the 
relevant markets that are likely to deter new entrants. Therefore new entry is 
unlikely to provide a constraint on the exercise of increased pricing discretion 
discussed above.  
143. 
The ACCC notes that entry can occur through either: 
i. 
the construction of a new pipeline that duplicates an existing pipeline 
on a route between a particular production centre and a particular 
demand centre; or 
ii. 
the construction of a new pipeline on a route between a particular 
production centre and a particular demand centre that is not currently 
serviced by a pipeline. 
144. 
The ACCC notes that pipelines that run from particular production centres to 
particular demand centres may be natural monopolies. This may make entry by 
a new pipeline uneconomic on a particular pipeline route that is already 
serviced. 
145. 
Further, large sunk costs increase the entry risk for a new pipeline operator, 
particularly when faced with a competing pipeline that has already incurred 
these costs. 
146. 
In addition, new entrants would have to obtain relevant planning and 
environmental approvals, gain access to easements and interconnect with 
existing pipelines. 
147. 
There are significant asymmetries between the incumbent and a new entrant 
such that the new entrant faces the following entry deterrents: 
• significant costs that will become sunk; 
• significant time taken for entry; 
• significant regulatory barriers; 
• a need to achieve a minimum efficient scale; and 
• a need to develop or obtain sufficient expertise. 
148. 
The ACCC notes that new pipelines are generally underwritten by foundation 
contracts to supply and ship new gas. This helps pipelines overcome the risks 
associated with entry. Nonetheless, it is likely that any new production volume 


APA Group - proposed acquisition of Hastings Diversified Utilities Fund 
 
33
would need to be substantial to make the entry of a new pipeline on a route 
already serviced economic. 
149. 
Taking all of the above together, the ACCC considers that barriers to entry for 
new pipelines are substantial and the threat of new entry is unlikely to constrain 
the exercise of any increased market power by APA post acquisition. 
150. 
The ACCC understands that existing firms can add additional capacity at a 
lower cost than new entry due to the ability to make alterations to existing 
pipelines through looping sections and adding additional compression. Both of 
these options are far cheaper than the only alternative available to a new entrant: 
constructing a new pipeline. 
 
 
Issues that may raise concern 
Increased barriers to entry and expansion 
 
151. 
The ACCC is concerned that there is a risk that barriers to entry and expansion 
will increase as a result of the proposed acquisition. 
152. 
As discussed, foundation contracts between pipeline owners and foundation 
suppliers allow pipeline owners to manage the risks associated with new entry. 
The ACCC notes that a number of new pipelines underpinned by foundation 
contracts have been constructed in the last decade. 
The ACCC invites interested parties to comment on barriers to entry. 
In particular, the ACCC would welcome views on: 
• the relevance of the following factors on the decision to enter the transmission 
pipeline industry: 
o costs required to build a new transmission pipeline; 
o regulatory barriers;  
o the time required for new entry; and 
o difficulty in attaining the technical knowledge required for the 
construction of gas transmission pipelines that meet Australian 
standards and state and federal government regulations; 
• whether a new entrant is able to timely enter the market in order to effectively 
constrain APA; and 
• the current ability of APA to inhibit or restrict interconnection from a new 
pipeline to their transmission network. 


APA Group - proposed acquisition of Hastings Diversified Utilities Fund 
 
34
153. 
Major pipelines are generally built on the premise that they will be able to 
connect into the existing gas transmission network in order to deliver gas to 
various locations throughout the network. However, the ACCC understands that 
there are exceptions, for example there are pipelines that transport gas directly 
from its point of production to Gladstone for LNG processing. 
154. 
The ACCC notes that post acquisition, APA will own a large majority of the gas 
transmission pipelines in eastern Australia. The only significant remaining 
transmission pipeline operator would be Jemena. 
155. 
Market participants have raised concerns that post acquisition the greater 
aggregation of pipelines owned by APA and their ability to service all major 
geographic points will reduce APA’s incentive to facilitate cost-effective 
connections into its existing network for new (and potentially competing) 
pipelines.  
156. 
During market inquiries, the Gunnedah Basin has been identified as an example 
of an emerging supply point that will generate demand for a new transmission 
pipeline which would potentially require interconnection to an APA owned 
pipeline. 
157. 
The Gunnedah Basin is predicted to be an emerging source of significant 
volumes of gas. While there is the potential for a route to Wallumbilla and 
through the QGP to a Gladstone export facility that would not require use of 
APA pipelines post-acquisition, market participants have advised that this gas 
may, at least partially, be required to service domestic demand centres.  
158. 
The concerns are that post-acquisition, APA’s ownership of the MSP and the 
majority of the pipelines connected to the Wallumbilla hub may potentially lock 
other potential pipeline owners out of the market for the construction and 
operation of a pipeline servicing the Gunnedah Basin. This concern is based on 
an assumption that to be able to service domestic demand centres, the new 
pipeline would potentially connect to the MSP or the SWQP, which prior to the 
proposed acquisition may have competed to secure connection of the new 
pipeline. Post acquisition, common ownership will decrease the number of 
owners that may compete for the connection of new pipelines. 
159. 
Post acquisition, APA will be able to service most major demand and supply 
centres. Whereas pre-acquisition, large shippers currently tend to contract with 
a number of pipeline operators as no pipeline operator provides routes 
connecting all demand and supply points, post acquisition APA would be in a 
position to bundle services across different parts of its interconnected network 
to incentivise shippers to only contract with APA.  
160. 
Due to the increased level of coverage of supply and demand centres, APA will 
be in a more advantageous position to manage its asset risks as compared with 
Jemena and new entrants. This may increase the asset risk to non-APA assets 
particularly due to the increased risk of asset stranding. In turn, market 
participants have indicated that the increased risk profile of the non-APA owned 


APA Group - proposed acquisition of Hastings Diversified Utilities Fund 
 
35
assets would naturally translate into the asset operator requiring a higher rate of 
return to warrant carrying the increased level of risk attached to the investment. 
 
 
 
Increased incentive and/or ability to raise transportation charges to Gladstone 
 
161. 
The ACCC understands that APA and Epic may currently compete for the 
transmission of gas to Gladstone. That is, Gladstone can currently be supplied 
with gas that moves via back haul north through the APA-owned MSP or Epic-
owned MAPS from south-east basins to Moomba, then via back haul using the 
Epic-owned QSN and the SWQP, and then forward haul up the Jemena-owned 
QGP. 
162. 
Market inquiries suggest that in the future it is possible that some of South 
Australian and Queensland produced gas may begin to be shipped to Gladstone 
to supply LNG export projects. This would place a greater reliance on Victorian 
produced gas to satisfy domestic demand and may cause a reversal in flow 
direction of both the MSP and the MAPS.  
163. 
The ACCC considers that if a reversal in flow were to occur, the MAPS and the 
MSP would compete for the transmission of gas to Gladstone by forward haul.  
164. 
The ACCC is concerned that, post acquisition, competition for the transmission 
of gas from southern basins to Queensland demand centres, via Moomba, may 
be reduced, as APA would control the only two pipelines (the MSP and the 
MAPS) that are able to transmit gas from south-east basins to Moomba. 
The ACCC invites interested parties to comment on the extent to which 
barriers to entry and expansion would increase as a result of the proposed 
acquisition. 
In particular, the ACCC would welcome views on:  
• whether, post-acquisition, APA would have the incentive and/or the ability to 
inhibit or restrict interconnection from a new pipeline to its transmission 
network, for example the potential for connection of future pipelines out of the 
Gunnedah Basin to MSP or the SWQP; 
• whether, post-acquisition, APA would be in a more advantageous position to 
manage its asset risks as compared to existing and potential pipeline operators; 
• the likelihood that post acquisition, APA will have the ability and/or incentive to 
strand non-APA owned pipelines; and 
• the likelihood that the proposed acquisition will increase the difficulty that a new 
entrant constructing a new pipeline would have in securing foundation shippers. 


APA Group - proposed acquisition of Hastings Diversified Utilities Fund 
 
36
165. 
Although Moomba is not a final demand centre, an increase in the price of gas 
transmission from the south-east into the Moomba hub is likely to result in an 
increase in the delivered price of gas in Gladstone. 
166. 
The ACCC understands that these pipelines would need to be reconfigured to 
physically reverse flow and that the costs involved in this reconfiguration may 
be high. 
167. 
Furthermore, market inquiries indicate that the transportation of gas via back 
haul north from southern basins to Queensland demand centres may involve 
some technical issues (e.g. connection between the MAPS/SEA Gas and the 
MSP/EGP; additional compression in from the Cooper Basin), which can 
increase the cost of using this route. 
 
The ACCC invites market participants to comment on whether/how the proposed 
acquisition would lessen competition for the provision of back haul or forward 
haul services from the south-east basins (Otway, Bass and Gippsland Basins) to 
Gladstone. 
In particular, the ACCC invites interested parties to comment on the issues below: 
• the technical viability of using the MAPS and the MSP for the transportation of 
gas from southeast basins, namely whether it would require expansion of 
pipelines, specific connections and pipeline configurations and whether these 
are feasible; 
• whether there are significant costs involved in configuring the MSP and the 
MAPS to physically reverse flow and if this is the case, whether, and to what 
extent, it would be economically viable to have north flows on the MSP and the 
MAPS; 
• whether the delivered price of gas transported from south-east basins to 
Gladstone would be competitive with the delivered price of gas transported 
through other routes from other basins; 
• whether and to what extent – in a short term and long term scenario - LNG 
proponents are likely to use south-east basins to supply Gladstone or prefer 
other available options; 
• whether the proposed acquisition would reduce competition for gas 
transmission from the southeast basins to the Moomba hub and result in an 
increase in the delivered price of gas in Gladstone; and  
• whether any new pipeline development is expected to create an alternative to 
the MAPS and the MSP routes for the direct transportation of gas from 
southeast basins to the Moomba hub. 


APA Group - proposed acquisition of Hastings Diversified Utilities Fund 
 
37
Issues unlikely to pose concern 
 
Reduction in transparency affecting other pipelines 
 
168. 
It has been suggested by market participants that the competitive and highly 
visible prices of the pipelines in eastern Australia constrain prices on pipelines 
in other Australian markets. That is, customers gain some level of negotiating 
power through access to information on the pricing structures of a competitive 
market(s).  
169. 
This would be particularly the case for customers operating in both eastern 
Australia and on unconnected pipelines like the pipelines servicing the Northern 
Territory and Western Australia given the likelihood that shippers would have 
options with APA in both markets and may co-ordinate negotiations for prices 
on its pipelines. 
170. 
The ACCC’s further market inquiries suggest that this is not likely to be an 
issue directly resulting from the proposed acquisition. Although APA might not 
publish pricing for the SWQP and the MAPS, shippers would have other 
sources of information from which they would be able to estimate the 
transmission pricing of eastern Australia pipelines. 
171. 
For instance, the Gas Bulletin Boards and the Weekly NEM Review Bulletin 
contain information regarding: (a) medium to long term demand for natural gas 
and for pipeline services; (b) supply and pipeline capacity to meet existing and 
foreseeable demand for natural gas and pipeline services; and (c) the outlook for 
the natural gas industry, including likely long term shortfalls in natural gas 
reserves, and production or transmission constraints. 
172. 
Furthermore, the information available on the AEMO site regarding the daily 
delivered gas pricing in the STTM also provides further information from which 
transmission pricing can be determined. 
173. 
The ACCC understands that pricing structures differ from pipeline to pipeline. 
Pricing is determined on the basis of a number of factors particular to each 
individual pipeline, including the size, age of the pipeline and associated 
facilities, the operating cost and utilisation of the pipeline.  
174. 
Considering that tariffs vary considerably across pipelines, the ACCC is 
continuing to investigate what inferences can be drawn by shippers from 
published pricing of APA’s pipelines in eastern Australia, to pricing in Northern 
Territory or Western Australia. 
The ACCC invites market participants to comment on the likelihood of the 
proposed acquisition resulting in less transparent gas transmission prices in 
eastern Australia and how this would reduce the bargaining power of shippers in 
relation to Northern Territory and Western Australia pipeline operators, 
including APA. 
 


APA Group - proposed acquisition of Hastings Diversified Utilities Fund 
 
38
Vertical integration 
 
175. 
A number of market participants are concerned that post acquisition APA would 
have an increased ability and/or incentive to foreclose gas-powered electricity 
generators that operate in markets where APA currently operates electricity 
generation assets. 
176. 
Foreclosure could occur through restricting customers’ ability to either access 
the APA pipelines or increasing the price or reducing the quality upon which 
that access occurs. 
177. 
While the ACCC notes that APA’s current electricity generation assets do not 
appear to be significant, market participants are concerned that APA may 
increase its electricity generation asset holding in the short to medium term. 
178. 
APA’s existing gas-fired power generation activities include: 
• Dandine: a 27 MW power station located at Kogan, west of Brisbane, that is 
powered by coal seam gas, transported through the RBP, from Arrow 
Energy’s gas field, located in south-east Queensland; and 
• X41: a power station, consisting of 11 individual gas-fired engine/generator 
sets, each holding around 3 MW capacity, which is fuelled by natural gas 
transported on the Carpentaria Gas Pipeline to Mt Isa for the purpose of 
supplying Xstrata’s mine.  
179. 
The ACCC understands that APA is currently developing the Diamantina 
Power Station (a 242 MW combined cycle plant) for the purposes of supplying 
energy users in Mt Isa and surrounding regions. 
180. 
Taking into account the size of APA’s gas-fired power generation assets and its 
likely possible further investment in power generation assets, the ACCC 
considers it unlikely that the proposed acquisition would increase APA’s 
incentive and/or ability to foreclose competing gas-powered electricity 
generators.  
181. 
The ACCC is considering whether, post acquisition, APA would be incentivised 
to adopt a foreclosure strategy, given that: 
• APA would lose transmission revenues that would be gained from third-
party generators;  
• the loss on transmission revenues would not be offset by any increase in 
revenues from the power generation business as the output from APA’s 
electricity generation assets are contractually committed to particular 
customers and does not directly compete with electricity generated from 
other power stations; and 
• even if APA were to run its generators at capacity there would be sufficient 
left over gas available such that APA would continue to be incentivised to 
sell the excess gas to other power generators. 


APA Group - proposed acquisition of Hastings Diversified Utilities Fund 
 
39
The ACCC invites market participants to comment on the likelihood of the 
proposed acquisition increasing APA’s ability and incentive to foreclose 
competing gas-powered electricity generators, by restraining their access to its 
pipelines. 
Proposed section 87B undertaking 
182. 
APA has initiated discussions with the ACCC regarding a possible undertaking 
pursuant to section 87B of the Act to address what APA perceives to be the 
competition concerns raised during the ACCC’s initial market inquiries.  
183. 
APA advises that the undertaking currently being contemplated may contain the 
following features: 
• the divestiture of APA’s 50% interest in SEA Gas to a purchaser approved 
by the ACCC; 
• the specification of a price ceiling for retail storage services on the MAPS 
for a period of five years from the date on which APA acquires control of 
HDF; 
• a five year window from the date on which APA acquires control of HDF 
during which shippers can contract for back haul services on the MAPS up 
to a price ceiling. Shippers entering into a contract within that period would 
be entitled to contract back haul services up to the price ceiling for each 
year of the contract until 31 December 2024; and 
• a negotiate/arbitrate process for the purposes of access seekers negotiating 
the price and terms on which access to these services would be provided. 
 
184. 
It is understood that the price ceilings referred to above would be based on the 
MAPS’ published rates, adjusted annually for CPI and may be increased for 
carbon costs. 
185. 
The ACCC is continuing its assessment of the proposed acquisition to 
determine whether the proposed acquisition would be likely to have the effect 
of substantially lessening competition in any market—this has involved further 
market inquiries and now the release of this Statement of Issues with a further 
round of inquiries to follow. The ACCC is therefore not currently in a position 
to form a concluded view as to the necessity, efficacy or acceptability of an 
undertaking of the kind being foreshadowed by APA.  
186. 
However, based on the competition concerns arising from its inquiries to date, 
the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the remedy being put forward by APA 
would not address the competition concerns outlined in this statement of issues. 
187. 
Market inquiries will not be commenced unless and until the ACCC is satisfied 
that any undertaking put forward by APA is in a form that is capable of 
consultation.  
188. 
However, in the interests of streamlining the process, the ACCC is seeking 
preliminary market feedback on the key undertaking terms currently 
foreshadowed by APA. In particular, whether and to what extent the 


APA Group - proposed acquisition of Hastings Diversified Utilities Fund 
 
40
undertaking is capable of addressing the competition concerns raised by the 
proposed acquisition. 
 
Areas under further investigation 
189. 
The ACCC is seeking information and evidence from market participants in 
relation to the preliminary competitive analysis outlined in this Statement of 
Issues, and in particular, whether there are further factors that should be taken 
into consideration by the ACCC in forming a concluded view. 
ACCC's future steps 
190. 
The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers market 
responses invited by this Statement of Issues. 
191. 
The ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on each of the 
issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that may be 
relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. 
192. 
Submissions are to be received by the ACCC no later than 13 April 2012. The 
ACCC will consider the submissions received from the market and the merger 
parties in light of the issues identified above and will, in conjunction with 
information and submissions already provided by the parties, come to a final 
view in light of the issues raised above. 
193. 
The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 26 April 2012. 
However the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Merger Review 
Process Guidelines. A public Competition Assessment for the purpose of 
explaining the ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's 
public announcement. 
The ACCC invites high level comments on the undertaking terms put 
forward by APA. In providing a response, you may wish to consider:  
 
• the utility of such an undertaking, particularly in light of the ACCC’s 
competition concerns outlined above;  
• the potential risks associated with the undertaking terms put forward by 
APA; and  
• any other comments you have in relation to the terms of the undertaking 
put forward by APA.  
