 
Wurundjeri people of the Kulin Nation
Level 17, 2 Lonsdale Street
Melbourne Vic 3000
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
Tel 03 9290 1800
www.accc.gov.au
 
Our ref: 
IM-72111 
Contact officer: 
Fiona Kennedy  
Contact phone: 
(03) 9290 1925  
30 May 2023 
 
Dear Interested Party 
Re: Request for submissions: Endeavour’s proposed acquisition of the Rye Hotel and attached drive-
through bottle shop in Rye, Victoria 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on the proposed 
acquisition of the Rye Hotel and the attached drive-through bottle shop, located at 2415 Point Nepean Road, 
Rye, Victoria (Rye Hotel) (the proposed acquisition) by Endeavour Group Limited (Endeavour).  
Further details are provided at Attachment A. 
Information from you or your business is one of the ACCC’s most valuable tools in assessing mergers. Your 
expertise in the hospitality and liquor industry, or your experience as a consumer, will help the ACCC 
understand the impact of the proposed acquisition, including how you or your business may be affected.  
The ACCC’s investigation of the proposed acquisition is focused on the impact on competition. In particular, 
we are seeking your views on: 
• 
how closely Endeavour’s bottle shops compete with the Thirsty Camel drive-through bottle shop 
at the Rye Hotel; 
• 
the availability of other bottle shops and hotels in the area; and 
• 
whether the removal of the Thirsty Camel drive-through bottle shop at the Rye Hotel and/or 
Endeavour’s increased scale would impact the acquisition of liquor products at the wholesale 
level.  
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in section 50 of the 
Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth) which prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect, or 
be likely to have the effect, of substantially lessening competition in a market.  
How to share your views  
Please provide your written response by 20 June 2023 via email to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: 
Submission re: Endeavour’s proposed acquisition of the Rye Hotel – attention Fiona Kennedy. If you require 
more time to respond, please let us know. 
We also invite local consumers to fill out the consumer survey by 20 June 2023. 


 
2
 
Alternatively, if you would like to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any questions, please call 
Fiona Kennedy on (03) 9290 1925.  
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public Mergers Register at 
(ACCC mergers register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC treats sensitive information it receives during a merger review as confidential and will not publish 
your submission. We will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) unless 
compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or during court proceedings) or in 
accordance with s155AAA of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to 
disclose confidential information, we will notify you in advance where possible so that you have an 
opportunity to be heard. Therefore, please clearly indicate if any information you provide is confidential. Our 
Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
Daniel McCracken-Hewson 
General Manager  
Merger Investigations  
 
 
 


 
3
Attachment A: Background 
 
Rye Hotel   
The Rye Hotel is located at 2415 Point Nepean Road in the bayside town of Rye on the Mornington 
Peninsula in Victoria. The building on Point Nepean Road houses: 
• 
on-premises food and beverage areas, including function rooms, live entertainment, TAB and 
gaming facilities, 
• 
an attached drive-through bottle shop which trades under the Thirsty Camel banner, and  
• 
beachfront accommodation. 
Peninsula Cellars, trading under the Thirsty Camel banner, is also owned by the vendor but it does not 
form part of the proposed acquisition. 
Endeavour 
Endeavour is a major Australian alcoholic drinks retailer and hotel operator that owns and operates a 
portfolio of brands including BWS, Dan Murphy’s, Jimmy Brings, Langton’s and Cellarmasters. 
Endeavour also manages over 330 licensed hotels across Australia through its subsidiary, ALH 
Hotels.  
Until 28 June 2021, Endeavour was a subsidiary of Woolworths Group. However, Endeavour has been 
separated from Woolworths Group via a demerger and is now a separately listed corporation on the 
ASX (ASX: EDV).  
Endeavour currently operates one BWS bottle shop in the local area, BWS Rye. BWS Rye is 
approximately 900 metres from the Rye Hotel by road and is located adjacent to Woolworths Rye. 
 
 


 
4
Attachment B: Questions 
 
1. Please provide a brief description of you, your business or organisation and explain your interest 
in the proposed acquisition, including any commercial relationship(s) with Endeavour and/or the 
Rye Hotel.  
Questions for consumers and bottle shops  
2. Identity any factors that you consider are important to, or valued by, bottle shop customers. For 
example, the brand of the bottle shop, its range of products, whether the bottle shop is located 
near other retail stores, whether it is a drive through store, whether it has easy parking access, 
etc.  
3. Discuss how closely the Thirsty Camel drive-through bottle shop at the Rye Hotel competes with 
Endeavour’s brand BWS, particularly the BWS in Rye. In your response, please consider price, 
quality (including service and site amenity), location, range of offering, promotional activity, and 
any other relevant factors.  
4. Identify and describe other bottle shops in the local area that compete with the Thirsty Camel 
bottle shop at the Rye Hotel. Outline how these competing bottle shops compare based on the 
factors listed in question 2.  
Questions for bottle shops 
5. Describe the ease or difficulty of establishing new bottle shops in the local area and/or the 
Mornington Peninsula. In your answer, please have regard to any relevant factors, including cost, 
time and availability of appropriate sites. 
6. Describe the impact (if any) of removing the Thirsty Camel drive-through bottle shop at the Rye 
Hotel on the strength of the Thirsty Camel brand. In your response, please consider the 
importance of having multiple locations in a region (such as the impact on brand awareness or 
economies of scale in relation to advertising).  
7. Describe the geographic area over which customers in the local area and/or the Mornington 
Peninsula generally source takeaway liquor and their ability to switch to alternative bottle shops in 
response to a price increase if prices were increased at the Rye Hotel.  
Questions for consumers and hotels  
8. Identify and discuss the hotels and/or other venues that compete with the Rye Hotel in relation to 
hospitality services in the local area and/or the Mornington Peninsula. In your response, please 
consider price, quality, location, and range of offering (including food and liquor offerings and live 
entertainment and gaming - including poker machines, lotteries, and network games).  
Questions for wholesalers  
9. Identify the impact (if any) of the proposed acquisition on the wholesale supply of liquor, either at 
the Victorian or national level. For example, whether the removal of the Thirsty Camel drive- 
through bottle shop at Rye Hotel as an independent wholesale customer would impact the scale, 
competitiveness and/or efficiency of a wholesale supplier’s offerings to other independent 
retailers. 
Additional information  
10. Outline any other concerns you have about the likely competition effects of the proposed 
acquisition or comments you consider relevant to the ACCC’s assessment, including your 
reasons.  
