 
 
 
Public Competition Assessment 
30 July 2014 
Sonic Healthcare Limited – proposed acquisition of assets 
of Delta Imaging Group 
Introduction 
1. On 17 January 2014, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission 
(ACCC) announced its decision to oppose the proposed acquisition of Delta 
Imaging Group by Sonic Healthcare Limited (proposed acquisition). The ACCC 
decided that the proposed acquisition would be likely to have the effect of 
substantially lessening competition in the markets for the supply of MRI services in 
Newcastle and Maitland, and the supply of general diagnostic imaging services in 
Maitland, in contravention of section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 
2010 (the Act). 
2. The ACCC made its decision on the basis of the information provided by the 
merger parties and information arising from its market inquiries. This Public 
Competition Assessment outlines the basis on which the ACCC has reached its 
decision on the proposed acquisition, subject to confidentiality considerations. 
Public Competition Assessment 
3. To provide an enhanced level of transparency and procedural fairness in its 
decision making process, the ACCC issues a Public Competition Assessment for 
all transaction proposals where: 
 
a merger is opposed; 
 
a merger is subject to enforceable undertakings; 
 
the merger parties seek such disclosure; or 
 
a merger is not opposed but raises important issues that the ACCC considers 
should be made public. 
4. This Public Competition Assessment has been issued because Sonic Healthcare 
Limited’s proposed acquisition of Delta Imaging Group was opposed by the ACCC. 
5. By issuing Public Competition Assessments, the ACCC aims to provide the public 
with a better understanding of the ACCC's analysis of various markets and the 
associated merger and competition issues. It also alerts the public to 


 
 
circumstances where the ACCC’s assessment of the competition conditions in 
particular markets is changing, or likely to change. 
6. Each Public Competition Assessment is specific to the particular transaction under 
review by the ACCC. While some transaction proposals may involve the same or 
related markets, it should not be assumed that the analysis and decision outlined 
in one Public Competition Assessment will be conclusive of the ACCC’s view in 
respect of other transaction proposals, as each matter will be considered on its 
own merits. 
7. Public Competition Assessments outline the ACCC’s principal reasons for forming 
views on a proposed acquisition at the time the decision was made. As such Public 
Competition Assessments may not definitively identify and explain all issues that 
the ACCC considers arise from a proposed acquisition. Further, the ACCC’s 
decisions generally involve consideration of both non-confidential and confidential 
information provided by the merger parties and market participants. In order to 
maintain the confidentiality of particular information, Public Competition 
Assessments do not contain any confidential information or its sources. 
The parties 
The acquirer: Sonic Healthcare Limited 
8. Sonic is an Australian Securities Exchange listed company. It provides diagnostic 
imaging services in Australia and New Zealand, as well as pathology services in 
Australia, New Zealand, Europe and the United States and medical centre 
management services in Australia.  
9. In Newcastle and the Hunter region of New South Wales, Sonic provides 
diagnostic imaging services through its subsidiary, Hunter Imaging Group Pty Ltd 
(Hunter Imaging). Hunter Imaging operates a number of clinics in the region, 
providing a range of general x-ray, ultrasound, computed tomography (CT) 
(collectively, general diagnostic imaging), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and 
nuclear medicine services.  
10. Relevant to the assessment of the proposed acquisition, Hunter Imaging operates 
the radiology practices in Newcastle and Maitland (located approximately 32km 
from the centre of Newcastle) listed in Table 1 below.  
Table 1 – Hunter Imaging radiology practices in Newcastle and Maitland 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Location 
Services provided 
Newcastle 
Charlestown 
 
General diagnostic imaging 
 
MRI 
Cardiff 
 
General diagnostic imaging 
 
MRI 
Gateshead 
 
General diagnostic imaging 
Broadmeadow 
 
General diagnostic imaging 
Belmont 
 
General diagnostic imaging 
Wallsend 
 
General diagnostic imaging 
Toronto 
 
General diagnostic imaging 
Maitland 
Maitland 
 
General diagnostic imaging 
East Maitland 
 
General diagnostic imaging 
 
MRI 
Rutherford 
 
General diagnostic imaging 


 
 
The target: Delta Imaging Group 
11. The Delta Imaging Group was established in 2009 and consisted of two radiology 
practices, located in Charlestown (Newcastle) and Maitland. Both practices 
provided general diagnostic imaging services (including, x-ray, ultrasound and CT) 
and MRI services.  
12. The Delta Imaging Group ceased trading on 9 July 2013 and was placed into 
liquidation.  
Other industry participants 
13. As explained further below, the areas in which Sonic and the Delta Imaging Group 
overlap is in the supply of general diagnostic imaging services and MRI services. 
Other suppliers of these services in Newcastle and Maitland are set out in Table 2. 
Table 2: Suppliers of diagnostic imaging other than Hunter Imaging and the 
Delta Imaging Group  
Supplier 
Locations 
General 
diagnostic 
imaging 
MRI 
Public Hospital/Private 
Radiology Practice 
NEWCASTLE 
Primary  
Charlestown 
 
 
Private Radiology 
Practice 
Merewether 
 
 
Private Radiology 
Practice 
Hunter 
Radiology 
Newcastle 
 
 
Private Radiology 
Practice 
Glendale 
 
 
Private Radiology 
Practice 
Newcastle 
Radiology 
Adamstown 
 
 
Private Radiology 
Practice 
In Focus 
Radiology 
Warners 
Bay 
 
 
Private Radiology 
Practice 
Newcastle X-ray 
Edgeworth 
 
 
Private Radiology 
Practice 
Newcastle X-ray 
and Ultrasound 
Charlestown 
 
 
Private Radiology 
Practice 
HNEI: Calvary 
Mater Hospital 
Waratah 
 
 
Public Hospital 
HNEI: John 
Hunter Hospital 
New 
Lambton 
 
 
Public Hospital 
MAITLAND 
Greenhills X-ray 
Maitland 
 
 
Private Radiology 
Practice 
HNEI: Maitland 
Maitland 
 
 
Public Hospital 


 
 
Supplier 
Locations 
General 
diagnostic 
imaging 
MRI 
Public Hospital/Private 
Radiology Practice 
Public Hospital 
The proposed acquisition 
14. Sonic’s proposal was to acquire assets of the Delta Imaging Group, primarily 
consisting of radiology equipment for the supply of x-ray, ultrasound, CT and MRI 
services. 
15. All of the assets could be used to provide a full-service radiology business at the 
former premises of the Delta Imaging Group in Maitland and Charlestown. 
Alternatively, some of the assets could be redeployed to other existing practices of 
Sonic with Sonic supplying only a limited range of radiology services from the 
former Delta Imaging Group practices. 
16. The ACCC considered both possibilities in assessing the potential competitive 
effects of the proposed acquisition. The ACCC concluded that the proposed 
acquisition was likely to result in a substantial lessening of competition, regardless 
of whether Sonic were to continue to operate the former Delta Imaging Group 
practices or whether Sonic were to redeploy some of the equipment.  
Review timeline 
17. The following table outlines the timeline of key events in this matter. 
Date 
Event 
15-Oct-2013 
 
28-Oct-2013 
 
21-Nov-2013 
 
 
27-Nov-2013 
 
 
 
05-Dec-2013 
 
 
20-Dec-2013 
 
17-Jan-2014 
ACCC commenced review under the Merger Process Guidelines. 
 
Closing date for submissions from interested parties.  
 
ACCC awaiting information from Sonic. Former provisional date 
for announcement of findings (28th November) delayed. 
 
ACCC received further information from merger parties. ACCC 
amended former provisional date for announcement of findings (28th 
November). 
 
ACCC published a Statement of Issues outlining preliminary 
competition concerns. 
 
Closing date for submissions relating to Statement of Issues. 
 
ACCC announced it would oppose the proposed acquisition. 
Market inquiries 
18. The ACCC conducted market inquiries with a range of industry participants, 
including competing radiology practices in the Newcastle and Maitland areas, 
radiology practices operating Medicare funded MRI units outside of Maitland and 
Newcastle, referring medical practitioners, industry bodies and alternative bidders 
for the Delta Imaging Group assets.  


 
 
Statement of Issues 
19. The ACCC published its Statement of Issues on 5 December 2013 identifying the 
following concerns: 
MRI services 
 
The proposed acquisition would result in Hunter Imaging being the only 
supplier of Medicare eligible MRI scans other than the public hospital in 
Newcastle (under a narrow geographic market definition), or Newcastle and 
Maitland (under a broad market definition). 
The ACCC was concerned that post-acquisition, the only other supplier of 
Medicare eligible MRI services, the public hospital, would not provide a 
sufficient constraint on Hunter Imaging to prevent a substantial lessening of 
competition.  
 
The proposed acquisition would result in Hunter Imaging being the only 
supplier of MRI services in Maitland (under a narrow geographic market 
definition). 
The ACCC was concerned that relative to the counterfactual of another 
radiology company providing MRI services from an unfunded MRI unit at 
Maitland, the proposed acquisition may result in a substantial lessening of 
competition through a deterioration of service levels for the supply of MRI 
services.   
General diagnostic imaging services 
 
The proposed acquisition would result in Hunter Imaging being one of three 
suppliers of general diagnostic imaging services in Maitland (the other 
suppliers being Greenhills Radiology and the Maitland Public Hospital). Hunter 
Imaging would operate three out of four private radiology practices.  
The ACCC was concerned that the proposed acquisition may result in a 
substantial lessening of competition because the existing private radiology 
competitor, Greenhills Radiology, and the Maitland Public hospital would not 
provide a sufficient constraint on Hunter Imaging’s pricing and service offerings 
post-acquisition. 
Future with/without test 
20. Section 50 of the Act prohibits mergers or acquisitions that would have the effect or 
be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. In 
assessing a proposed acquisition pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC 
considers the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future competitive 
environment post-acquisition if the acquisition proceeds (the “with” position) to the 
likely future competitive environment if the acquisition does not proceed (the 
“without” position) to determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in any relevant market. 
21. In this case, the ACCC considered that if the proposed acquisition did not proceed, 
another radiology company would be likely to acquire the Delta Imaging Group’s 
assets and operate full-service radiology practices at the former Delta Imaging 
Group sites.  


 
 
Industry background 
22. Radiology is a medical specialty that employs the use of medical imaging to both 
diagnose and treat human injuries and illnesses. 
23. Radiologists are doctors who specialise in the interpretation of diagnostic images, 
and provide clinical reports. Sonographers and radiographers (medical imaging 
technologists) are medical professionals who operate the relevant diagnostic 
imaging machinery.  
24. Diagnostic imaging involves a variety of modalities, including x-ray, ultrasound, 
fluoroscopy, bone mineral densitometry, mammography, fine needle aspiration 
biopsy, CT, MRI and nuclear medicine / position emission tomography (PET). 
Medical practitioners – referral practices 
25. Doctors, including General Practitioners (GPs) and various other medical 
specialists, refer patients to radiology service providers. When making referrals, 
doctors select a radiology practice based on a range of factors including quality, 
convenience, price, location, services available and clinical relationship with the 
reporting radiologist.  
26. Although patients are given a referral slip for a particular radiology practice or 
company, patients are free to go to radiology practices other than the practice their 
medical practitioner refers them to. However, market inquiries have indicated that 
patients rarely attend radiology practices other than those they are referred to.  
27. Market inquiries also indicated that many doctors prefer to refer to radiology 
practices which are full service: that is practices which offer all general diagnostic 
imaging modalities and MRI, and have a radiologist present at the radiology 
practice. There are several reasons for this preference, including: 
 
a full service practice provides expertise in multiple modalities and is therefore 
perceived by doctors as being able to provide a higher quality of service; 
 
referring doctors often request several diagnostic imaging investigations to 
diagnose patients, and on-site radiologists with expertise in several modalities 
are able to provide advice on the most appropriate methods based on the 
results of the preliminary diagnostic image;  
 
referring doctors often develop ongoing professional relationships with on-site 
radiologists who consistently produce high quality reports on which referring 
doctors can rely. Practices without an on-site radiologist may not use the same 
radiologists to produce reports and therefore referring doctors can be reluctant 
to refer patients to such practices. 
Medicare eligibility of MRI scans 
28. The Australian Government regulates Medicare funding of MRI services by 
entering into a Deed of Undertaking with certain accredited MRI service providers. 
The Deed of Undertaking permits specific MRI units to supply Medicare MRI 
eligible scans (i.e. MRI scans which attract a Medicare rebate). These deeds of 
undertakings define MRI units as either: 
 
fully funded – these units can supply the full range of Medicare eligible MRI 
scans under the MBS when referred by a specialist, surgeon or GP; or 


 
 
 
partially funded – these units can supply a selected number of Medicare 
eligible scans under the MBS when referred by a GP and for certain breast 
scans.  
Table 3 below summarises the Medicare eligible scans which can be provided by 
fully and partially funded MRI units. 
Table 3: Summary of Medicare eligibility on funded and unfunded MRI units. 
Referrer 
Fully funded MRI unit 
Partially funded MRI unit 
Unfunded 
MRI unit 
Specialist 
or surgeon 
All Medicare eligible MRI 
scans.  
Certain breast scans. 
Nil 
GPs 
 Select MRI scans for 
patients under 16 years 
of age with certain 
symptoms for scans of 
the head, spine, ankle, 
knee, hip, elbow and 
wrist. 
 Select MRI items for 
patients over 16 years 
of age with certain 
symptoms for scans of 
the head, neck or knee. 
 Select MRI scans for 
patients under 16 years 
of age with certain 
symptoms for scans of 
the head, spine, ankle, 
knee, hip, elbow and 
wrist. 
 Select MRI items for 
patients over 16 years 
of age with certain 
symptoms for scans of 
the head, neck or knee. 
Nil 
29. MRI units without a deed of undertaking are ‘unfunded’. While these units can 
supply all types of MRI scans, these scans will not attract a Medicare rebate and 
patients can be charged substantial out of pocket fees. 
30. Prior to 1 November 2012, only patients referred by specialists or surgeons for MRI 
scans listed under the MBS were eligible for the Medicare rebate. Additionally, to 
receive the Medicare rebate for these scans, patients would have needed to be 
referred to fully funded MRI units, of which there were only 125 throughout 
Australia.  
31. On 1 November 2012, the Australian Government increased the number of MRI 
items under the MBS which could attract the Medicare rebate if supplied by a 
funded MRI unit. These items related to MRI scans for patients under 16 years old, 
referred by a GP. The Australian Government also increased the number of fully 
funded MRI units and introduced partial funding of MRI units. There are now 169 
partially funded MRI units and 168 fully funded MRI units throughout Australia.  
32. On 1 November 2013, the Federal Government further increased the number of 
MRI items which can be referred by a GP to a fully or partially funded MRI unit and 
attract the Medicare rebate. These items related to MRI scans of the head, neck 
and knee for patients over 16 years old. 
Market definition  
33. The parties overlapped in the supply of general x-ray, ultrasound, CT and MRI in 
Newcastle and Maitland. 
Product dimension 
34. In previous matters the ACCC has considered that all diagnostic imaging 
modalities, except for MRI and nuclear medicine, fall within the same product 


 
 
dimension. The ACCC did not receive any submissions to indicate a different 
approach should be taken in this matter. 
35. In most cases, there is limited substitutability between the various diagnostic 
imaging modalities, as they offer different functionalities to diagnose a variety of 
injuries or ailments. However, based on information obtained in market inquiries, 
the ACCC believes it is appropriate to consider the supply of general diagnostic 
imaging services, including x-ray, ultrasound and CT, as one product dimension 
because radiology practices tend to supply these modalities together.  
36. Further, with the exception of MRI services, the training and qualifications of 
medical imaging technicians and radiologists allow these practitioners to provide 
diagnostic imaging services on several modalities.  
37. In contrast, radiologists and medical imaging technicians require additional training 
and qualifications to provide MRI services. The ACCC therefore considers that the 
supply of MRI services to be in a separate product dimension to general diagnostic 
imaging services. 
Radiology services provided by hospitals 
38. Radiology practices compete for referrals of outpatients. These are patients who 
are not admitted to a hospital to obtain radiology or any other medical services. 
Radiology services are provided to outpatients by private radiology practices, 
private hospitals and public hospitals.  
39. Services provided to hospital in-patients by public or private hospitals are not 
included within the relevant markets. This is primarily because in-patient services 
require a patient to be admitted to hospital and this is unlikely to be substitutable 
on either the demand or supply-side to any material extent.  
Geographic dimension 
General diagnostic imaging services 
40. Market inquiries indicated that radiology patients in Newcastle and Maitland 
generally seek to obtain general diagnostic imaging services in their local area, 
which may include the five or six suburbs surrounding their home or the location of 
their doctor. The ACCC therefore concluded that there are separate Newcastle and 
Maitland markets for the supply of general diagnostic imaging services. 
Newcastle 
41. The ACCC did not receive any third party submissions, in response to the 
Statement of Issues, suggesting that the geographic boundary for the supply of 
general diagnostic imaging services extends beyond Newcastle. 
42. In Newcastle, most of the competing radiology practices are located within 10km of 
each other. While Hunter Imaging has practices at multiple locations in Newcastle, 
some practices are located further from the central Newcastle area, such as 
Toronto (which is located approximately 17km from the target site in Charlestown). 
Market inquiries indicated it is unlikely that significant numbers of patients would 
travel beyond 10km from the more central parts of Newcastle, particularly to obtain 
the relatively routine general diagnostic imaging modalities (i.e. x-ray and 
ultrasound).  


 
 
43. Nevertheless, even if Hunter Imaging’s  Toronto practice were included as a 
competitor in the Newcastle market, this would not impact the ACCC’s analysis. 
Maitland 
44. Some submissions were made to the ACCC stating that the relevant market should 
be broadened beyond Maitland to include practices in Cessnock. If a broader 
market definition was adopted, Valley Imaging and Local X-Ray at Cessnock 
(approximately 30km from the target site in Maitland) would be included as 
competing private radiology practices. Sonic does not have a radiology practice in 
Cessnock. 
45. Information from market inquiries following the release of the Statement of Issues 
revealed that some Cessnock residents attend radiology practices in Maitland for 
general diagnostic imaging services. However, these were primarily patients who 
work or attend specialist appointments in the area.  
46. Cessnock is a smaller centre than Maitland and is not on any through route for 
Maitland patients. In contrast, Maitland is a large centre with a larger hospital and 
medical precincts with resident specialists which Cessnock patients may attend. 
Market feedback was that Cessnock has a very small hospital and medical precinct 
with very few resident specialists. It would therefore be unlikely that significant 
numbers of Maitland residents would travel to Cessnock for diagnostic imaging 
services in response to a price increase or service deterioration in Maitland. 
47. Prior to the release of the Statement of Issues, the ACCC did not include 
Rutherford as part of the Maitland market for general diagnostic imaging services. 
However, market feedback following the release of the Statement of Issues was 
that given its close proximity to Maitland (approximately 5km), radiology practices 
in Rutherford should be included as competitors in the market. This resulted in the 
addition of another Hunter Imaging practice to the Maitland market, which supplied 
general diagnostic services (x-ray and CT).  
MRI services 
48. The preliminary view in the Statement of Issues was that there are likely to be 
separate local markets for the supply of MRI services in Newcastle and Maitland.  
49. Following the release of the Statement of Issues, information from market 
participants indicated patients are willing to travel up to 50km for MRI services. 
This is mainly because it is less common for radiology practices to offer MRI 
services than other general diagnostic imaging services, making it necessary for 
many patients to travel longer distances to acquire them.  
50. The ACCC therefore concluded that the geographic dimension of the market for 
MRI services should encompass both Newcastle and Maitland. 
Conclusion on relevant markets 
51. The ACCC concluded the following markets to be relevant to the assessment of 
the proposed acquisition: 
 
The supply of general diagnostic imaging services to outpatients in Newcastle. 
 
The supply of general diagnostic imaging services to outpatients in Maitland 
(including Rutherford). 


 
 
 
The supply of MRI services to outpatients in a combined Newcastle/Maitland 
market. 
Competition analysis 
Supply of MRI services in Newcastle and Maitland 
52. The ACCC concluded that the proposed acquisition would be likely to result in a 
substantial lessening of competition in the market for the supply of MRI services in 
Newcastle and Maitland taking into account the following factors: 
 
Post-acquisition, Hunter Imaging would be the only private radiology company 
capable of providing Medicare eligible MRI services.  
 
As Medicare eligible MRI scans are the key source of demand for MRI 
services, Primary and Hunter Radiology would not impose a sufficient 
competitive constraint on Hunter Imaging to prevent a substantial lessening of 
competition, given that they do not offer Medicare eligible MRI services.  
 
The only other supplier of Medicare eligible MRI services is the public hospital 
provider, HNEI, which must prioritise services to in-patients and is capacity 
constrained. Market inquiries indicated that HNEI would not be likely to impose 
a sufficient competitive constraint on Hunter Imaging post-acquisition to 
prevent a substantial lessening of competition.  
 
Barriers to entry are high and there is no credible threat of new entry.  
53. The ACCC concluded that in the absence of the proposed acquisition, an 
alternative acquirer would be likely to operate a full-service radiology practice at 
the former Delta Imaging Group sites. This would enable the supply of MRI 
services using two partially funded MRI units (both in Newcastle) and one 
unfunded MRI unit (Maitland) in competition with other service providers in 
Newcastle. These assets would enable particularly close competition with Hunter 
Imaging’s partially funded MRI unit at Charlestown and fully funded MRI units at 
Cardiff and East Maitland.  
Significance of changes to Medicare eligibility of MRI since 1 November 2013 
54. The key sources of demand for MRI services are: 
 
patients referred for scans by specialists and surgeons, the bulk of which are 
Medicare eligible; 
 
patients referred for scans by a GP, of which a selected number of items are 
Medicare eligible; and 
 
patients referred for scans by any medical practitioner for injuries covered 
under workers’ compensation schemes (these scans do not attract a Medicare 
rebate).  
Market participants consistently stated that Medicare eligible MRI scans account 
for the vast majority of the demand for MRI services. 
55. Despite the introduction of the GP-referrable Medicare eligible MRI scans being 
very recent, information obtained in market inquiries demonstrated there has 
already been a significant increase in the number of GP referrals for Medicare 
eligible MRI scans.  


 
 
56. Radiology companies which operate partially funded MRI units outside of the 
relevant market provided data indicating increases in the number of Medicare-
eligible MRI scans conducted by these units since 1 November 2013, ranging from 
30-80%.  
57. Further, Medicare data show that in the first two months that the Medicare eligible 
GP referred adult MRI scans were available, the number of GP-referred scans 
increased by 23%. As a proportion of total Medicare eligible MRI scans conducted, 
these scans increased from 20.1% (November 2013) to 24.95% (December 2013). 
These data are summarised below at Table 4. 
58. These data indicate that the newly introduced GP-referred MRI scans are likely to 
account for a significant proportion of demand for MRI services. However, as the 
new items have only been available for referral since November 2013, it is too 
early to identify the full impact the expansion will have on demand for services from 
partially funded MRI units. The ACCC found that GP awareness of the changes to 
Medicare eligibility was relatively low. As GP awareness increases, this is likely to 
further significantly increase the number of GP referrals to both partially funded 
and fully funded MRI units.  
Table 4 – November and December Medicare data for MRI  
Type of scan 
November 2013 
December 2013 
Medicare eligible 
on fully or 
partially funded 
MRI units 
 
Number of 
scans 
Percentage 
of total 
Number 
of scans 
Percentage 
of total 
GP referred 
(under 16 
years old) 
1,803 
2.6% 
1,329 
1.93% 
Both 
 
GP referred 
(over 16 years 
old) 
12,099 
17.5% 
15,835 
23.01% 
Both 
 
GP referred 
(all) 
13,902 
20.1% 
17,164 
24.95% 
Both 
 
Certain breast 
scans  
947 
1.36% 
343 
0.5% 
Both 
Other 
specialist 
referred scans 
54,298 
78.5% 
51,298 
74.55% 
Fully funded units 
only 
Source: https://www.medicareaustralia.gov.au/statistics/mbs_group.shtml 
59. The number of GP referrals for MRI scans to funded MRI units is expected to 
increase because of the following factors: 
 
The availability of Medicare rebates on certain GP referred scans enables GPs 
to refer patients directly for MRI scans without needing a prior referral to a 
specialist. This will reduce waiting times for receiving diagnoses. The ACCC 
obtained data from the 2012/2013 financial year which showed that specialist 


 
 
referred MRI scans equivalent to the newly introduced GP referred MRI scans 
accounted for a high proportion of Medicare eligible MRI scans overall. The 
ACCC considered this indicated significant potential for substitution of GP 
referrals for specialist referred Medicare eligible MRI scans where the services 
to be provided to patients are equivalent as between GPs and specialists. 
 
GPs will refer patients for MRI scans, which is often a more clinically 
appropriate test, rather than CT scans for certain symptoms. CT scans have 
previously been used instead of MRI scans because they were Medicare 
eligible.  
 
An organic increase in demand for MRI scans. 
60. The ACCC was therefore satisfied that the newly introduced GP referrable 
Medicare eligible MRI scans represented a significant proportion of the demand for 
MRI services and this was expected to increase. The funded MRI units formerly 
owned by the Delta Imaging Group would therefore be a significant constraint on 
Hunter Imaging if operated by an alternative acquirer.  
Competitive constraints 
61. The following MRI units are located in the Newcastle and Maitland areas: 
Table 5 – Providers of MRI services (funded and unfunded) in Newcastle and 
Maitland 
Provider 
Location 
Medicare eligibility 
NEWCASTLE 
Hunter Imaging (Sonic)  Cardiff 
Full  
Hunter Imaging (Sonic)  Charlestown 
Partial 
Delta Imaging Group 
Charlestown 
Partial 
Delta Imaging Group 
Charlestown 
Partial 
HNEI  
John Hunter Hospital 
Full  
HNEI 
John Hunter Hospital 
Partial 
HNEI 
Calvary Mater Hospital Partial 
Hunter Radiology 
Glendale 
None 
Primary Healthcare 
Merewether 
None 
MAITLAND 
Sonic  
East Maitland 
Full  
Delta Imaging Group 
Maitland 
None 
62. As noted above, the proposed acquisition would result in Hunter Imaging being the 
only private radiology practice with partially or fully funded MRI units in the 
Newcastle and Maitland areas.  
Constraint from the public hospital provider 
63. Market participants expressed significant concerns regarding HNEI’s ability to 
competitively constrain Hunter Imaging.  
64. Although HNEI supplies Medicare eligible MRI services to out-patients, its capacity 
to accommodate significantly more out-patient referrals is limited.  
65. The primary business of public hospitals is to provide services to in-patients. 
Because public hospitals have an obligation to prioritise services to in-patients over 
out-patients, they cannot choose to switch to providing services to out-patients, 
rather than in-patients, in response to an increase in out-patient demand.  


 
 
66. Hospital in-patients commonly have serious illnesses which may be more 
progressed and complex, therefore requiring more time and resources for the 
provision of services. Public hospitals also focus time and resources on hospital 
clinics and training of medical staff. These factors can result in poor accessibility 
for out-patients in terms of long wait times for appointments and, diminished 
service through inconvenience and potential delays in providing reports for images.  
67. Further, out-patients acquiring MRI services from HNEI are often previous hospital 
in-patients or referred from specialist clinics within the hospital, rather than external 
doctors. Patients of these specialists are likely to have specialist appointments and 
imaging services provided on the same day.  
68. On the basis of these factors, the ACCC concluded that if the proposed acquisition 
proceeded, the funded MRI units at the John Hunter and Calvary Mater hospitals in 
Newcastle would not impose a sufficient constraint on Hunter Imaging to prevent a 
substantial lessening of competition.1  
Constraint from unfunded MRI units 
69. Market inquiries indicated that radiology practices with unfunded MRI units are not 
a strong competitive constraint on radiology practices with funded MRI units, 
particularly with respect to pricing competition. While practices operating unfunded 
MRI units provide some competition, practices operating partially or fully funded 
MRI units compete more closely on price as they have the ability to charge no or 
lower fees to patients for Medicare eligible scans, which account for the vast 
majority of MRI scans supplied.  
70. Market participants consider that Hunter Imaging is the leading provider of MRI 
services in the Newcastle and Maitland areas. Market participants stated that its 
position is, to a large extent, because it operates the only fully funded MRI units 
outside of the public hospital system.  
71. Although demand for MRI services is increasing, MRI scans are relatively 
expensive tests, generally costing patients between $200 and $800 per scan 
(without a Medicare rebate). Referring doctors, particularly GPs, are often reluctant 
to refer patients to practices where patients cannot receive the Medicare rebate for 
MRI scans. Therefore, many referring doctors refer patients to radiology practices 
with funded MRI units for Medicare eligible scans. As GP referrals are becoming a 
much more significant source of referrals for MRI services, the acquisition by Sonic 
of the former Delta Imaging Group MRI units would enable Hunter Imaging to 
further entrench its position as the principal supplier of MRI services.  
72. Additionally, because doctors typically refer to a single radiology practice for all 
imaging services, it is anticipated that GPs who refer patients for Medicare eligible 
scans to practices with a funded MRI unit are also likely to refer patients to the 
same practices for non-Medicare eligible MRI scans. It is therefore anticipated that 
for radiology practices with funded MRI units, there will not only be a significant 
increase in GP referrals to these practices for Medicare eligible MRI scans, but 
also for non-Medicare eligible scans. 
73. In this context, the acquisition by Sonic of the partially funded MRI unit would be 
likely to significantly increase Hunter Imaging’s market share for the supply of MRI 
services through an increase in referrals from GPs Medicare eligible MRI scans as 
well as ancillary referrals from GPs.  
                                                 
1 The Maitland public hospital does not have an MRI unit. 


 
 
74. For the reasons outlined at paragraph 59, radiology businesses operating both 
within and outside of the relevant markets consistently stated that in light of the 
expansion of Medicare eligibility of GP-referrable MRI scans, partially funded units 
are now capable of winning significant market share from fully funded and 
unfunded MRI units. Therefore, the relatively weak constraint previously imposed 
by unfunded MRI units on funded MRI units prior to the Medicare expansion on 1 
November 2013 has been further diminished. The ACCC considered that since the 
expansion of Medicare eligibility, the partial funding status allocated to the MRI 
units formerly owned by the Delta Imaging Group had the potential to be a source 
of significant competitive constraint against Hunter Imaging’s funded units, but that 
unfunded MRI units were not likely to competitively constrain a merged Sonic-Delta 
entity to a significant extent. 
75. The acquisition of the former Delta Imaging Group practices by an alternative 
purchaser would allow that purchaser to operate a full-service practice, which 
would competitively constrain Hunter Imaging in the supply of MRI services in 
Newcastle and Maitland. Without the constraint of an alternative private radiology 
practice capable of supplying Medicare eligible services, Hunter Imaging would 
have the ability to increase prices and reduce service levels for the supply of MRI 
services, in particular, the supply of MRI scans attracting a Medicare rebate.  
Barriers to entry 
76. Barriers to establishing a radiology practice in Newcastle and Maitland are 
significant. This is discussed further at paragraphs 86 to 99. For the supply of MRI 
services, the ACCC found that potential entrants face the following additional 
barriers to entry and expansion:   
 
 
Investment in MRI equipment requires significant capital investment and sunk 
costs.  
 
It is very difficult to recruit skilled staff needed to operate MRI units to 
Newcastle and Maitland as there is a shortage of skilled staff. Market inquiries 
revealed examples of radiology practices being unable to enter the Newcastle 
and Maitland market as a result of this issue.  
 
Market participants stated that having a Medicare eligible MRI unit has the 
potential to attract much higher volumes of referrals and associated revenue 
than an unfunded unit. Without a Medicare eligible MRI unit, radiology 
practices are at a high risk of not making a return on their investment.  
 
The Commonwealth Government is unlikely to grant full or partial funding 
status to additional MRI units in the foreseeable future.  
 
Funding status of MRI units is tied to their location. As such, it is unlikely that 
an existing or potential competitor could relocate a funded MRI unit from 
another area to the Newcastle or Maitland areas. 
77. Given these barriers, the ACCC considered that Hunter Imaging would not be 
constrained by the threat of new entry for the supply of MRI services in the 
Newcastle and Maitland area post-acquisition. In particular, there is no credible 
threat of a new entrant capable of providing Medicare eligible MRI services and 
replicating the constraint that would be imposed by the Delta Imaging Group 
funded MRI units.    


 
 
Supply of general diagnostic imaging services in Maitland 
78. Post-acquisition, Hunter Imaging would operate four out of five private radiology 
practices in Maitland if it continued to operate the Delta Imaging Group practice, or 
three out of four practices if it chose not to operate the Delta Imaging Group 
practice. This contrasts with the likely future without the acquisition, where an 
alternative acquirer would operate the relevant assets in competition with Hunter 
Imaging and the other providers.  
79. The ACCC formed the view that the only other private radiology practice, which 
only provides x-ray and ultrasound services and is not a full-service practice, would 
impose a limited competitive constraint on Hunter Imaging post-acquisition. 
Similarly, the public hospital provider, HNEI, is unlikely to impose a sufficient 
constraint in this market.   
80. The proposed acquisition would therefore significantly increase market 
concentration in the supply of general diagnostic imaging services in Maitland, 
where Hunter Imaging already has a high share of the market, and would not be 
constrained by the threat of new entry. 
Sonic is unlikely to be constrained by existing competitors in Maitland 
81. Before the Delta Imaging Group was placed into liquidation, its Maitland practice 
was the only other private, full-service practice which operated in competition with 
Hunter Imaging’s Maitland practices. The ACCC considered that the former Delta 
Imaging Group assets have the potential to offer significant competition against 
Hunter Imaging in the supply of general diagnostic imaging services in Maitland in 
the future without the proposed acquisition.  
82. Hunter Imaging currently has a significant presence in the market for general 
diagnostic imaging services in Maitland, operating three out of four private 
radiology practices. The proposed acquisition would have the effect of reinforcing 
its already substantial presence and would prevent a competing full-service 
radiology practice from being established at the former Delta Imaging Group site in 
Maitland. 
83. As Table 2 indicates, the only other radiology practices in Maitland are Greenhills 
Radiology and HNEI.  
84. Greenhills Radiology, the only other private radiology practice in Maitland, does not 
offer a full service practice (it also does not supply all general diagnostic imaging 
modalities) and does not have a radiologist present on site. As noted in the 
industry background section, market inquiries have indicated that an on-site 
radiologist is often important for a radiology practice’s ability to provide high levels 
of service to referring doctors. Consequently, it is unlikely that Greenhills Radiology 
would provide a sufficient constraint to prevent Hunter Imaging from increasing 
prices or reducing service levels.  
85. For the reasons outlined at paragraphs 63 to 68 above, public hospitals provide a 
limited constraint on private radiology practices. Market inquiries revealed 
significant concerns about the current effectiveness of HNEI as a competitive 
constraint upon private radiology practices and its ability to increase the level of 
constraint that it provides in the market in the foreseeable future.  


 
 
Barriers to entry 
86. The ACCC considered whether, following the proposed acquisitions, another 
radiology practice might be capable of entering the market for general diagnostic 
imaging services in Maitland. The ACCC considered whether any such entry or 
expansion would be likely, timely and sufficient to deter any potential price or non-
price effects that might otherwise result from the proposed acquisition. 
87. The ACCC found that potential entrants would face significant barriers to 
establishing a radiology practice in Maitland, including the following: 
 
There is a shortage of skilled labour.  
 
There is a shortage of suitable sites. Radiology equipment consumes high 
levels of electricity relative to many businesses, which often requires upgrading 
the electricity connection to a given site, to obtain adequate supply. These 
arrangements can be time consuming and very costly. 
 
There are considerable lead times and sunk costs involved in establishing a 
new radiology practice.  
 
It can be difficult to build up a referral base from medical practitioners. This can 
pose a particular barrier when the market is already served by multiple existing 
radiology practices (particularly if they include a scaled incumbent like Sonic/ 
Hunter Imaging). 
88. For these reasons, the ACCC concluded that there was little prospect of a 
radiology practice (and in particular, a full-service radiology practice) entering the 
market in the foreseeable future other than through the acquisition of the Delta 
Imaging Group site in Maitland. The ACCC considered that through the acquisition 
of the Delta Imaging Group’s site, a new owner would overcome a number of these 
barriers.  
89. The ACCC therefore concluded that the proposed acquisition would be likely to 
substantially lessen competition in the market for the supply of general diagnostic 
imaging services in Maitland. 
Supply of general diagnostic imaging services in 
Newcastle 
90. The proposed acquisition would result in Hunter Imaging operating eight out of 16 
private radiology practices in Newcastle.  
91. The ACCC considers that existing competitors in this market would be likely to 
impose a sufficient competitive constraint on Hunter Imaging post-acquisition. 
Hunter Imaging is unlikely to have the ability or incentive to raise its prices or 
reduce its service levels as it would risk losing business to other practices, most of 
which bulk bill all general diagnostic imaging examinations. Additionally, Primary 
and Hunter Radiology operate full service practices in competition with Hunter 
Imaging’s Newcastle practices.  
92. The ACCC therefore concluded that it is unlikely that the proposed acquisition 
would result in a substantial lessening of competition in the market for the supply of 
general diagnostic imaging services in Newcastle.  


 
 
Conclusion 
93. On the basis of the above, the ACCC formed the view that the proposed 
acquisition of assets of the Delta Imaging Group by Sonic Healthcare Limited 
would be likely to result in a substantial lessening of competition in the markets for 
supply of MRI services in Newcastle and Maitland and, the supply of general 
diagnostic imaging services in Maitland, in contravention of section 50 of the Act. 
