Page 1 of 14 
 
Statement of Issues 
5 December 2013 
 Sonic Healthcare Limited - proposed acquisition of assets 
of Delta Imaging Group 
Introduction 
1. Outlined below is the Statement of Issues released by the Australian Competition 
and Consumer Commission (ACCC) on the proposed acquisition of assets of Delta 
Imaging Pty Limited (in liquidation), Delta Imaging Maitland Pty Limited (in 
liquidation) and Cscan Asset Pty Limited (in liquidation) (collectively, the Delta 
Imaging Group) by Sonic Healthcare Limited (Sonic) (proposed acquisition). 
2. A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well as 
identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
3. In line with the ACCC’s Merger Review Process Guidelines (at 
www.accc.gov.au/processguidelines) the ACCC has established a secondary 
timeline for further consideration of the issues. The ACCC anticipates completing 
further market inquiries by 20 December 2013 and anticipates making a final 
decision by 17 January 2014. However, the anticipated timeline can change in line 
with the Merger Review Process Guidelines. To keep abreast of possible changes 
in relation to timing and to find relevant documents, market participants should visit 
the Mergers Register on the ACCC's website at www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
4. A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 
Background to the proposed acquisition 
5. On 11 October 2013, in response to a request by the ACCC, Sonic provided its 
submission seeking informal clearance from the ACCC to acquire the assets of the 
Delta Imaging Group. 
6. Sonic proposes to acquire assets of the Delta Imaging Group, primarily consisting 
of radiology equipment for the supply of x-ray, ultrasound, computed tomography 
(CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) services. 


Sonic Healthcare Limited - proposed acquisition of assets of Delta Imaging Group 
 
Page 2 of 14 
7. Sonic may use the assets to provide a full-service radiology business at the former 
premises of the Delta Imaging Group in Maitland and Charlestown, provided it can 
obtain a lease at those premises. Alternatively, Sonic may deploy some or all of 
those assets elsewhere. 
8. The ACCC has considered both possibilities in assessing the potential competitive 
effects of the proposed acquisition. The concerns raised in this Statement of 
Issues apply regardless of whether Sonic were to continue to operate the former 
Delta Imaging Group practices or whether Sonic were to close those practices and 
redeploy the equipment. 
The parties 
Sonic Healthcare Limited 
9. Sonic is an Australian Securities Exchange listed company. It provides diagnostic 
imaging services in Australia and New Zealand, as well as pathology services in 
Australia, New Zealand, Europe and the United States and medical centre 
management services in Australia. 
10. In Newcastle and the Hunter region of New South Wales, Sonic provides 
diagnostic imaging services through its subsidiary, Hunter Imaging Group Pty Ltd 
(Hunter Imaging). Hunter Imaging operates a number of clinics in the region, 
providing a range of general x-ray, ultrasound, CT (collectively, general 
diagnostic imaging), MRI and nuclear medicine services. 
11. Relevant to the assessment of proposed acquisition, Hunter Imaging operates the 
following radiology practices in Newcastle and Maitland (located approximately 
32km from the centre of Newcastle). 
Table 1: Locations of Sonic radiology practices in Newcastle and Maitland 
Location 
Services provided 
Newcastle 
Charlestown 
 General diagnostic imaging 
 MRI 
Cardiff 
 General diagnostic imaging 
 MRI 
Gateshead 
 General diagnostic imaging 
Broadmeadow 
 General diagnostic imaging 
Belmont 
 General diagnostic imaging 
Wallsend 
 General diagnostic imaging 
Toronto 
 General diagnostic imaging 
Maitland 
Maitland 
 General diagnostic imaging 
East Maitland 
 General diagnostic imaging  
 MRI 
Delta Imaging Group 
12. The Delta Imaging Group was established in 2009 in Charlestown and expanded 
to Maitland in 2012. Both practices provided general diagnostic imaging services 
(including, x-ray, ultrasound and CT) and MRI services. 
13. The Delta Imaging Group ceased trading on 9 July 2013 and is in liquidation. 


Sonic Healthcare Limited - proposed acquisition of assets of Delta Imaging Group 
 
Page 3 of 14 
Other industry participants 
14. As explained further below, the areas in which Sonic and the Delta Imaging Group 
overlap is in the supply of general diagnostic imaging services and MRI services. 
Other suppliers of these services in Newcastle and Maitland are set out below. 
Table 2: Suppliers of diagnostic imaging other than Sonic and the Delta Imaging 
Group  
Supplier 
Locations 
General 
diagnostic 
imaging 
MRI 
Public 
Hospital/Private 
Radiology 
Practice 
NEWCASTLE 
Primary  
Charlestown 
 
 
Private Radiology 
Practice 
Merewether 
 
 
Private Radiology 
Practice 
Hunter 
Radiology 
Newcastle 
 
 
Private Radiology 
Practice 
Glendale 
 
 
Private Radiology 
Practice 
Newcastle 
Radiology 
Adamstown 
 
 
Private Radiology 
Practice 
In Focus 
Radiology 
Warners 
Bay 
 
 
Private Radiology 
Practice 
Newcastle X-
ray 
Edgeworth 
 
 
Private Radiology 
Practice 
Hunter New 
England 
Imaging: 
Calvary Mater 
Hospital 
Waratah 
 
 
Public Hospital 
Hunter New 
England 
Imaging: John 
Hunter Hospital 
New 
Lambton 
 
 
Public Hospital 
MAITLAND 
Greenhills X-ray 
Maitland 
 
 
Private Radiology 
Practice 
Hunter Health 
Imaging 
Service: 
Maitland Public 
Hospital 
Maitland 
 
 
Public Hospital 


Sonic Healthcare Limited - proposed acquisition of assets of Delta Imaging Group 
 
Page 4 of 14 
Market inquiries 
15. On 15 October 2013, the ACCC commenced market inquiries regarding the 
proposed acquisition. A range of interested parties provided submissions, including 
radiology practices in the Newcastle and Maitland areas, referring medical 
practitioners, industry bodies and alternative bidders for the Delta Imaging Group 
assets. 
Future with and without the acquisition  
16. Section 50 of the Act prohibits mergers or acquisitions that would have the effect or 
be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. In 
assessing a proposed acquisition pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC 
considers the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future competitive 
environment post-acquisition if the acquisition proceeds (the “with” position) to the 
likely future competitive environment if the acquisition does not proceed (the 
“without” position) to determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in any relevant market. 
17. In this case, if the proposed acquisition does not proceed, the ACCC considers 
that it is likely another radiology company would acquire the Delta Imaging Group’s 
assets and operate full-service radiology practices at the former Delta Imaging 
Group sites, providing general diagnostic imaging services and MRI services. 
Industry background 
18. Diagnostic imaging is a healthcare service that seeks to diagnose conditions 
through the generation and interpretation of structural and functional images of the 
human body. The practice of diagnostic imaging also includes preventative 
medicine (through screening services) and treatment (through interventional 
image-guided procedures and nuclear medicine). The various technologies (often 
referred to as modalities) used in diagnostic imaging allow detailed visualisation of 
structures within the human body without the need for surgery or major 
intervention. 
19. Sonographers and radiographers (medical imaging technologists) are medical 
professionals who operate the relevant diagnostic imaging machinery. Radiologists 
are medical professionals who interpret diagnostic images and provide clinical 
reports. 
20. Diagnostic imaging involves a variety of modalities, including: 
 
general x-ray;  
 
dental x-ray / orthopantomogram (OPG); 
 
ultrasound; 
 
doppler ultrasound; 
 
fluoroscopy or (fluoroscopic screening); 
 
bone mineral densitometry (DEXA); 
 
mammography; 
 
fine needle aspiration biopsy (FNA); 
 
CT; 


Sonic Healthcare Limited - proposed acquisition of assets of Delta Imaging Group 
 
Page 5 of 14 
 
MRI; and 
 
nuclear medicine / position emission tomography (PET). 
Medical practitioners – referral practices 
21. Medical practitioners make referrals to diagnostic imaging service providers. The 
choice as to which radiology practice to refer a patient to is determined by a range 
of factors including quality, convenience, price, location, services available and 
clinical relationship with the reporting radiologist.  
22. Market inquiries have indicated that medical practitioners generally prefer to refer 
to a single radiology practice for all imaging services as opposed to sending 
different patients with different imaging needs to different practices. Additionally, 
many medical practitioners prefer to refer to radiology practices which supply 
general diagnostic imaging and MRI which are considered to be full-service. This is 
because full-service practices are considered to be a more convenient one stop 
shop and are also often perceived to provide better quality of service. 
23. Although patients are given a referral slip for a particular radiology practice or 
company, patients are free to go to radiology practices other than the practice their 
medical practitioner refers them to. However, market inquiries have indicated that 
patients typically attend the radiology practices they are referred to.  
Medicare 
24. Medicare rebates account for the largest proportion of revenue for diagnostic 
imaging service providers and have a significant impact on the price of radiology 
services. Other sources of revenue include co-payments from private patients, 
private health funds and other uninsured patient out-of-pocket expenses for items 
not included under the Medicare Benefits Scheme (MBS). 
Medicare eligibility of MRI scans  
25. The Australian Government regulates Medicare funding of MRI services by 
entering into deeds of undertaking with certain accredited MRI service providers. A 
deed of undertaking permits specific MRI units to supply Medicare rebatable MRI 
scans. These deeds of undertakings define MRI units as either: 
 fully funded – these units can supply the full range of Medicare eligible MRI 
scans under the MBS when referred by a specialist, surgeon or GP; or 
 partially funded – these units can supply a selected number of Medicare 
eligible scans under the MBS when referred by a GP and certain Medicare 
eligible cancer staging and breast screening scans referred by a specialist or 
surgeon. 
26. MRI units without a deed of undertaking are ‘unfunded’. While these units can 
supply all types of MRI scans, these scans will not attract a Medicare rebate and 
patients will be charged out of pocket fees. 
27. Prior to 1 November 2012, only patients referred by specialists or surgeons for MRI 
scans listed under the MBS were eligible for the Medicare rebate. Additionally, to 
receive the Medicare rebate for these scans, patients would have needed to be 
referred to fully funded MRI units of which there were only 125 throughout 
Australia.  


Sonic Healthcare Limited - proposed acquisition of assets of Delta Imaging Group 
 
Page 6 of 14 
28. On 1 November 2012, the Australian Government increased the number of MRI 
items under the MBS which could attract the Medicare rebate if supplied by a 
funded MRI unit. These items related to MRI scans for patients under 16 years old, 
referred by a GP. The Australian Government also increased the number of fully 
funded MRI units and introduced partial funding of MRI units.  
29. On 1 November 2013, the Federal Government further increased the number of 
MRI items which can be referred by a GP to a fully or partially funded MRI unit and 
attract the Medicare rebate.  
30. Currently in Australia there are 169 partially funded and 168 fully funded MRI units. 
The ACCC understands that the Australian Government is unlikely to enter deeds 
of undertaking for further MRI units to become fully or partially funded in the 
foreseeable future. 
31. Market participants stated that throughout Australia, GPs have often referred 
patients for CT scans when MRI scans would be a more appropriate clinical 
investigation. This is because these CT scans are Medicare rebateable whereas 
MRI scans are not always Medicare rebateable. Additionally, because an MRI scan 
is a relatively expensive test, prior to the regulatory changes made in November 
2012, GPs would often refer patients to specialists, who could subsequently refer 
patients for an MRI scan that would attract the Medicare rebate. Consequently, 
patients often waited for long periods of time (due to waiting periods for specialists’ 
appointments) to access MRI services. The ACCC understands that part of the 
rationale behind the expansion of Medicare eligible GP referrable MRI scans is to 
improve access to MRI services and to reduce the number of less appropriate CT 
scans. 
32. Table 3 below summarises the availability of Medicare rebates for MRI services, 
based on the referrer and the funding status of the MRI unit.  
Table 3: Summary of Medicare eligibility on funded and unfunded MRI units. 
Referrer 
Fully funded MRI unit 
Partially funded MRI unit 
Unfunded 
MRI unit 
Specialist 
or surgeon 
All Medicare eligible MRI 
scans.  
Certain cancer staging 
and breast screening 
items. 
Nil 
GPs 
 Select MRI scans for 
patients under 16 years 
of age with certain 
symptoms for scans of 
the head, spine, ankle, 
knee, hip, elbow and 
wrist. 
 Select MRI items for 
patients over 16 years 
of age with certain 
symptoms for scans of 
the head, spine or 
knee. 
  Select MRI scans for 
patients under 16 years 
of age with certain 
symptoms for scans of 
the head, spine, ankle, 
knee, hip, elbow and 
wrist. 
 Select MRI items for 
patients over 16 years 
of age with certain 
symptoms for scans of 
the head, spine or 
knee. 
Nil 
Areas of overlap and market definition 
33. The following areas of overlap exist between the parties to the proposed 
acquisition: 
 
general x-ray; 


Sonic Healthcare Limited - proposed acquisition of assets of Delta Imaging Group 
 
Page 7 of 14 
 
ultrasound; 
 
CT; and 
 
MRI. 
Product dimension 
34. In previous matters the ACCC has considered that all diagnostic imaging 
modalities, except for MRI and nuclear medicine, fall within the same product 
dimension. The ACCC has not received any submissions to indicate a different 
approach should be taken. 
35. In most cases, the various diagnostic imaging modalities are complements with 
limited substitutability, as they offer different functionalities to diagnose a variety of 
injuries or ailments. However, the ACCC considers it appropriate to consider the 
supply of general diagnostic imaging services, including x-ray, ultrasound and CT, 
as one product dimension because radiology practices tend to supply these 
modalities together.  
36. Further, with the exception of MRI services, the training and qualifications of 
medical imaging technicians and radiologists allow these practitioners to provide 
several modalities of diagnostic imaging services.  
37. In contrast, radiologists and medical imaging technicians require additional training 
and qualifications to provide MRI services. The ACCC therefore considers the 
supply of MRI services to be a separate product dimension to general diagnostic 
imaging services. 
Radiology services provided by hospitals 
38. Radiology practices compete for referrals of out-patients. These are patients who 
are not admitted to a hospital to obtain radiology or any other medical services.  
39. The ACCC considers that services provided to hospital in-patients by public or 
private hospitals should not be included within the relevant markets, primarily 
because out-patients are not likely to become in-patients in order to access 
radiology services. Additionally, once admitted to a hospital, in-patients and their 
doctors generally do not have the ability to choose between radiology providers, 
meaning they are not contestable to external radiology providers.  
Geographic dimension 
40. Market inquiries have indicated that radiology patients in Newcastle and Maitland 
generally seek to obtain services in their local area, which may include the five or 
six suburbs surrounding their home or the location of their doctor.  
41. However, some market participants indicated that the geographic dimension of 
these markets may be broader. Further, some market participants have stated that 
the supply of urgent or more complex imaging services, such as MRI, may be less 
common and such practices therefore draw patients from a wider geographic area.  
42. Some market participants also stated that some patients would be willing to travel 
between Cessnock and Maitland for general diagnostic imaging services.  
43. Additionally, many radiology practices are located close to hospitals or medical 
precincts. Therefore, patients who attend hospitals or medical precincts for other 
medical services may also attend nearby radiology practices for ancillary imaging 


Sonic Healthcare Limited - proposed acquisition of assets of Delta Imaging Group 
 
Page 8 of 14 
services. Consequently, these radiology practices may draw patients from a wider 
geographic region than most patients would normally travel for imaging services. 
Further, some patients converge to the clinic that better matches their price 
sensitivity (rather than the clinic that is necessarily closest). For example, patients 
might travel further to take advantage of bulk billing. 
44. Notwithstanding the factors outlined above, market inquiries to date have indicated 
that insufficient patients would switch between Newcastle and Maitland in the 
event of a price increase or reduction of service in one of these locations.  
45. The ACCC’s preliminary view is therefore that there are likely to be separate local 
markets for the supply of general diagnostic imaging and MRI services. However, 
the ACCC is considering whether a broader geographic market may apply for 
either or both of these product markets. 
46. The ACCC notes that even if the geographic market is broader for the supply of 
MRI services, encompassing certain satellite towns close to Newcastle, including 
Maitland, this is unlikely to affect the competition analysis for the proposed 
acquisition. This is discussed further in the ‘issues of concern’ section below.  
Conclusion 
47. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the following markets are likely to be relevant 
in assessing the proposed acquisition: 
 
The supply of general diagnostic imaging services in Newcastle. 
 
The supply of general diagnostic imaging services in Maitland. 
 
The supply of MRI services in Newcastle. 
 
The supply of MRI services in Maitland. 
48. As noted above, the market definition does not include the supply of the above 
services to hospital in-patients. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its proposed definition of the 
relevant markets. In particular, market participants may wish to comment on: 
 
The extent to which the geographic dimension of the market for the supply of MRI 
services and/or the market for the supply of general diagnostic imaging services 
may be broader or narrower than Newcastle and Maitland separately or, the 
combined Newcastle-Maitland area. For example, to what extent do patients travel 
between Newcastle, Maitland and other locations such as Cessnock, to obtain 
radiology services? 
Statement of issues 
49. For the purposes of this Statement of Issues, the issues in this matter are divided 
into three categories, 'issues of concern', 'issues that may raise concerns' and 
'issues unlikely to pose concerns'. 


Sonic Healthcare Limited - proposed acquisition of assets of Delta Imaging Group 
 
Page 9 of 14 
Issues of concern 
Unilateral effects: The proposed acquisition is likely to give the merged 
entity market power in the supply of MRI services in Newcastle  
50. The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition would result in a substantial 
lessening of competition in the supply of MRI services in Newcastle. The ACCC 
considers that this would be the case regardless of whether the geographic 
dimension of the market is confined to Newcastle or is broadened to include both 
the Newcastle and Maitland areas.  
51. In the absence of the proposed acquisition, it is likely that an alternative purchaser 
would operate a full-service radiology practice at the former Delta Imaging Group 
sites, providing MRI services using two partially funded MRI units (both in 
Newcastle) and one unfunded MRI unit (Maitland).  
52. If a narrow geographic market definition were adopted, the partially funded MRI 
units would be operated in competition with MRI services provided by other service 
providers in Newcastle and in particularly close competition with Sonic’s partially 
funded MRI unit at Charlestown and fully funded MRI unit at Cardiff. If a broad 
geographic market definition were adopted, the two partially funded units formerly 
owned by the Delta Imaging Group would also compete with Sonic’s fully funded 
MRI unit at East Maitland. 
Competitive constraints 
53. The following MRI units are located in the Newcastle and Maitland areas: 
Table 4: Providers of MRI services (funded and unfunded) in Newcastle and 
Maitland 
Provider 
Location 
Medicare eligibility 
NEWCASTLE 
Sonic  
Cardiff 
Full  
Sonic  
Charlestown 
Partial 
Delta Imaging Group Charlestown 
Partial 
Delta Imaging Group Charlestown 
Partial 
HNEI  
John Hunter Hospital 
Full  
HNEI 
John Hunter Hospital 
Partial 
HNEI 
Calvary Mater Hospital Partial 
Hunter Radiology 
Glendale 
None 
Primary Healthcare 
Merewether 
None 
MAITLAND 
Sonic  
East Maitland 
Full  
Delta Imaging Group Maitland 
None 
 
54. The proposed acquisition would result in Sonic being the only private radiology 
practice with partially or fully funded MRI units in the Newcastle and Maitland 
areas.  
55. Market participants have consistently stated that public hospitals do not compete 
with private radiology practices to a significant extent for out-patients. This is 
because public hospitals prioritise providing services to in-patients over out-
patients. These patients commonly have acute illnesses which may be more 
progressed and complex, therefore requiring more time and resources for the 
provision of services. Public hospitals also focus time and resources on hospital 


Sonic Healthcare Limited - proposed acquisition of assets of Delta Imaging Group 
 
Page 10 of 14 
clinics. These factors can result in poor accessibility for out-patients in terms of 
wait times for appointments and diminished service through inconvenience and 
delays in providing reports for images. 
56. As such, if the proposed acquisition proceeds, the funded MRI units at the John 
Hunter and Calvary Mater hospitals in Newcastle are unlikely to impose a sufficient 
constraint on Sonic to prevent a substantial lessening of competition.  
57. Market participants have also consistently expressed the view that radiology 
practices with unfunded MRI units are not a strong competitive constraint on 
radiology practices with funded MRI units in relation to price. While practices 
operating unfunded MRI units provide some competition, practices operating 
partially or fully funded MRI units compete more closely on price as they have the 
ability to charge no or lower fees to patients for Medicare eligible scans.1  
58. Market participants consider that Sonic is the dominant provider of MRI services in 
the Newcastle and Maitland areas. Market participants stated that this position is, 
to a large extent, because Sonic operates the only fully funded MRI units outside of 
the public hospital system.  
59. Market inquiries indicate that the key sources of demand for MRI units are: 
 
patients referred for scans by specialists and surgeons, the bulk of which are 
Medicare rebatable; 
 
patients referred for scans by a GP, of which a selected number of items are 
Medicare rebatable; and 
 
patients referred for scans by any medical practitioner for injuries under 
workers’ compensation schemes (these scans do not attract a Medicare 
rebate).  
60. The ACCC notes that while there is a select range of MRI items under the MBS 
which attract a Medicare rebate when referred by a GP, market inquiries indicate 
that these scans make up the most common indications for which patients would 
be referred for an MRI scan. As such, the Medicare expansion is likely to result in a 
significant proportion of GP referrals for MRI scans attracting the Medicare rebate.  
61. Market inquiries indicate that the Medicare expansion is likely to result in GP 
referrals becoming a much more significant source of referrals for MRI services in 
the future. This is because GPs are more likely to refer patients for Medicare 
eligible scans rather than referring patients to specialists for initial consultations 
before receiving an MRI scan. Additionally, because these scans are now 
Medicare eligible they are likely to be used instead of CT scans for certain 
symptoms.  
62. Market inquiries indicate that as medical practitioners, particularly GPs, are 
reluctant to refer patients for Medicare eligible scans to practices where they 
cannot receive the Medicare rebate, medical practitioners tend to refer patients to 
radiology practices with funded units for Medicare eligible scans. 
63. The ACCC notes that, from the perspective of referring GPs, there is no difference 
between a fully funded MRI unit and a partially funded MRI unit, as both types of 
MRI units will attract the same Medicare rebate for Medicare eligible scans referred 
by a GP. This contrasts with the perspective of referring specialists and surgeons 
                                                 
 
1 Further, to the extent that radiology providers were previously able to utilise unfunded MRI 
units to provide a competitive constraint for GP referrals, the recent expansion of the range of 
Medicare eligible scans for GP referrals is likely to significantly weaken this constraint. 


Sonic Healthcare Limited - proposed acquisition of assets of Delta Imaging Group 
 
Page 11 of 14 
who generally need to refer patients for eligible scans to fully funded MRI units in 
order to receive the Medicare rebate. This means that, in relation to GP referrals, 
radiology practices with a partially funded MRI unit are able to compete, in terms of 
pricing, on an equal footing with radiology practices with a fully funded MRI unit. 
Therefore, the partial licences allocated to the MRI units formerly owned by Delta 
Imaging have the potential to be a source of significant competitive constraint 
against Sonic’s funded MRI units. 
64. Additionally, as noted in the industry background section, because medical 
practitioners generally prefer to refer to a single radiology practice for all imaging 
services, it is anticipated that GPs who refer patients for Medicare eligible scans to 
practices with a funded MRI unit are also likely to refer patients to the same 
practices for non-Medicare eligible MRI scans. It is therefore anticipated that there 
will not only be a significant increase in GP referrals for Medicare rebatable MRI 
scans, but also the number of GP referrals to these practices for non-Medicare 
eligible scans. 
65. In this context, if Sonic acquires the partially funded MRI units, it is likely to 
significantly increase its market share for the supply of MRI services through an 
increase in Medicare rebateable MRI scan referrals as well as ancillary referrals 
from GPs.  
66. By contrast, the acquisition of the former Delta Imaging Group practices by an 
alternative purchaser would allow that purchaser to operate a full-service practice, 
which would competitively constrain Sonic in the supply of both MRI and general 
diagnostic imaging services in Newcastle (or potentially in Newcastle-Maitland if a 
combined geographic market were found to be relevant). 
Barriers to entry and expansion 
67. Market inquiries indicate that barriers to establishing a radiology practice (with or 
without MRI services) in the Newcastle and Maitland areas are significant for the 
following reasons: 
 
 
There is a shortage of skilled labour. 
 
There are high sunk costs in acquiring radiology equipment and 
undertaking construction to house equipment according to regulatory 
standards.  
 
There is a shortage of suitable sites with sufficient electricity capacity to 
operate radiology equipment. In many cases, significant capital investment 
is necessary to ensure reliable power supply to a radiology practice, as 
well as high ongoing costs of operating transformers and generators or 
sourcing excess electricity from remote substations. 
68. For the supply of MRI services, market participants identified the following 
additional barriers to entry and expansion:  
 
 
The Federal Government is unlikely to allocate additional licences for fully 
or partially funded MRI units.  
 
Funding status of MRI units is tied to their location. As such, it is unlikely 
that an existing or potential competitor could relocate a funded MRI unit 
from another area to the Newcastle or Maitland areas. 
 
Investment in MRI equipment requires particularly significant capital 
investment and sunk costs.  


Sonic Healthcare Limited - proposed acquisition of assets of Delta Imaging Group 
 
Page 12 of 14 
 
Having a Medicare-eligible MRI unit has the potential to attract much 
higher volumes of referrals and associated revenue than an unfunded unit 
would. If an MRI unit does not have full or partial Medicare eligibility, the 
financial risks of new entry or expansion into the MRI market may be high.  
 
It is difficult to attract skilled radiology staff to Newcastle and Maitland. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the likely competitive effects 
of the proposed acquisition in the supply of MRI services. In particular, market 
participants may wish to comment on: 
 
The extent to which funded MRI units at the public hospitals in Newcastle impose, 
or would impose, a competitive constraint on Sonic’s funded MRI units at Cardiff, 
Charlestown and Maitland.  
 
The extent to which unfunded MRI units compete with funded MRI units. 
 
The extent to which new or existing unfunded MRI units are economically viable. 
 
Whether the GP referable MRI items on the MBS represent a significant proportion 
of the existing or potential demand for MRI services. 
 
The extent to which the barriers to entry and expansion to the supply of MRI 
services are surmountable, in particular; 
o 
the profitability of unfunded MRI units relative to funded MRI units; 
o 
the availability of suitable sites; 
o 
the availability of sufficient power to sites; and 
o 
the shortage of skilled staff. 
Issues that may raise concerns 
Unilateral effects: The proposed acquisition may give the merged entity 
market power in the supply of general diagnostic imaging services in 
Maitland 
69. The ACCC considers that competition concerns may arise in the supply of general 
diagnostic imaging services in Maitland, as the proposed acquisition would result in 
Sonic being one of three suppliers of general diagnostic imaging services (i.e. 
Greenhills X-ray and the Maitland Public Hospital). Sonic would operate three out 
of four private radiology practices if it continued to operate the Delta Imaging 
Group practice, or two out of three private radiology practices if Sonic chose not to 
operate the Delta Imaging Group practice (see tables 1 and 2). This contrasts with 
a future without the acquisition where an alternative acquirer would operate the 
relevant assets in competition with Sonic and the other providers. 
70. As noted in the ‘industry background’ section, market inquiries indicate that a full-
service practice is likely to attract more referrals than a standalone general 
diagnostic imaging practice and also, therefore, to be a sustainable business. 
Therefore, in the absence of the proposed acquisition, an alternative acquirer 
providing MRI services in conjunction with general diagnostic imaging services (i.e. 


Sonic Healthcare Limited - proposed acquisition of assets of Delta Imaging Group 
 
Page 13 of 14 
a full-service practice) would be likely to be a significant competitor in the supply of 
general diagnostic imaging services in Maitland. 
71. The ACCC is therefore concerned that the proposed acquisition may result in a 
significant increase in concentration in the supply of general diagnostic imaging 
services in Maitland. The ACCC is concerned that the Maitland Public Hospital and 
the only other private radiology practice supplying general diagnostic imaging 
services in Maitland, Greenhills X-ray, may not be a sufficient constraint to prevent 
Sonic from increasing prices or reducing quality of service.  
72. However, as noted in the ‘market definition’ section, the ACCC is considering 
whether a broader geographic market definition is appropriate. If a broader market 
definition is appropriate, two additional private radiology practices, Valley Imaging 
and Local X-ray in Cessnock and, the public hospitals in Cessnock and Kurri Kurri 
would be included as competitors. The ACCC therefore intends to examine the 
extent to which these firms would impose a competitive constraint on Sonic post-
acquisition.  
73. As market inquiries suggest that the barriers to setting up a radiology practice (with 
or without MRI) are significant, it appears the threat of potential entry may not 
impose a competitive constraint in the supply of general diagnostic imaging 
services in Maitland. However, the ACCC is considering the extent to which 
barriers to entry to the supply of general diagnostic imaging services are 
surmountable. 
Unilateral effects: The proposed acquisition may give the merged entity 
market power in the supply of MRI services in Maitland 
74. If a narrow geographic market definition were adopted for the supply of MRI 
services in Maitland, the ACCC considers that competition concerns may arise in 
the supply of MRI services in Maitland as post-acquisition, Sonic would be the only 
supplier of MRI services. Sonic would provide MRI services through a funded MRI 
unit and an unfunded MRI unit, if it continues to operate the unfunded MRI unit 
which was formerly owned by the Delta Imaging Group. This contrasts with a future 
without the acquisition where an alternative acquirer would operate an unfunded 
MRI unit in competition with Sonic. 
75. While unfunded MRI units do not provide strong price competition, they are 
capable of providing service competition. Therefore, the ACCC is concerned that 
the proposed acquisition may result in a deterioration of service levels for the 
supply of MRI services, for example, through less convenient opening hours for 
patients or increased waiting times for scans. The ACCC intends to further 
examine the extent that unfunded MRI units impose a competitive constraint, in 
terms of service quality, on funded MRI units. 
76. As noted above, market inquiries suggest that the barriers to setting up a radiology 
practice (with or without MRI) are significant and, are even more significant for the 
supply of MRI services. As such, the threat of potential entry does not appear likely 
to impose a competitive constraint in the supply of MRI services in Maitland. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the likely competitive effects 
of the proposed acquisition in the supply of general diagnostic imaging services and 
MRI services in Maitland. In particular, market participants may wish to comment on: 
 
the financial viability of establishing a radiology practice in Newcastle and/or 
Maitland without a funded MRI unit; 


Sonic Healthcare Limited - proposed acquisition of assets of Delta Imaging Group 
 
Page 14 of 14 
 
the competitive constraint imposed by the threat of new entry to the supply of 
general diagnostic imaging services; 
 
the competitive constraint imposed by the existing suppliers of general diagnostic 
imaging services in Maitland – Greenhills X-ray and the Maitland Public Hospital; 
and 
 
the competitive constraint on Sonic’s Maitland practices imposed by suppliers of 
general diagnostic imaging services located in Cessnock.  
Issues unlikely to pose concerns 
The supply of general diagnostic imaging services in Newcastle 
77. Market inquiries indicate that competition concerns are unlikely to arise in the 
supply of general diagnostic imaging services in Newcastle.  
78. If the proposed acquisition proceeds, Sonic would be one of six private radiology 
companies supplying general diagnostic imaging services, operating eight out of 
15 private radiology practices. The ACCC notes that other than Sonic, two of the 
six suppliers of general diagnostic imaging services in Newcastle operate full-
service radiology practices. Market inquiries indicate that the existing providers of 
general diagnostic imaging services in the Newcastle are likely to impose sufficient 
competitive constraint on Sonic in this market. 
ACCC's future steps 
79. The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers market responses 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
80. The ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on each of the issues 
identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that may be relevant 
to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. 
81. Submissions are to be received by the ACCC no later than 20 December 2013. 
The ACCC will consider the submissions received from the market and the merger 
parties in light of the issues identified above and will, in conjunction with 
information and submissions already provided by the parties, come to a final view 
in light of the issues raised above. 
82. The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 17 January 2014. 
However the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Merger Review 
Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose of 
explaining the ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's public 
announcement. 
