 
Public Competition Assessment 
27 November 2007 
Macquarie Media Group - proposed acquisition of Southern Cross 
Broadcasting (Australia) Ltd and nine regional radio stations 
owned by Fairfax Media Limited  
Introduction 
1. 
On 17 October 2007, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission 
(ACCC) announced its decision not to oppose two proposed acquisitions by 
Macquarie Media Group subject to section 87B undertakings accepted by the 
ACCC on that date. The first proposed acquisition is of Southern Cross 
Broadcasting (Australia) Ltd. The second proposed acquisition is of nine regional 
radio stations owned by Fairfax Media Limited. The ACCC was of the view that 
the proposed acquisitions, in conjunction with the undertakings, would be unlikely 
to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in any market in 
contravention of section 50 of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (the Act). 
2. 
The ACCC formed its view on the basis of the information provided by the parties 
and information arising from its market inquiries. This Public Competition 
Assessment outlines the basis on which the ACCC reached its decisions on the 
proposed acquisitions, subject to confidentiality considerations. 
Public Competition Assessment 
3. 
To provide an enhanced level of transparency and procedural fairness in its 
decision making process, the ACCC issues a Public Competition Assessment for 
all transaction proposals where: 
• a merger is opposed; 
• a merger is subject to enforceable undertakings; 
• the merger parties seek such disclosure; or 
• a merger is approved but raises important issues that the ACCC considers 
should be made public. 
4. 
This Public Competition Assessment has been issued because Macquarie Media 
Group’s proposed acquisitions are subject to court enforceable undertakings and 
are considered to raise issues of interest to the public. 
5. 
By issuing Public Competition Assessments, the ACCC aims to provide the public 
with a better understanding of the ACCC's analysis of various markets and the 


Macquarie Media Group - proposed acquisition of Southern Cross Broadcasting and 9 Fairfax 
Media regional radio stations 
associated competition issues. It also alerts the public to the circumstances where 
the ACCC’s assessment of the competition conditions in particular markets is 
changing, or likely to change, because of developments.  
6. 
Each Public Competition Assessment is specific to the particular transaction under 
review by the ACCC. While some transaction proposals may involve the same or 
related markets, it should not be assumed that the analysis and decision outlined in 
one Public Competition Assessment will be conclusive of the ACCC’s view in 
respect of other transaction proposals, as each matter will be considered on its 
own merits.  
7. 
Many of the ACCC’s decisions will involve consideration of both non-
confidential and confidential information provided by the merger parties and 
market participants. In order to maintain the confidentiality of particular 
information, Public Competition Assessments do not contain any confidential 
information or its sources. While the ACCC aims to provide an appropriately 
detailed explanation of the basis for its decision, maintaining confidentiality will 
be the ACCC's paramount concern. Accordingly, a Public Competition 
Assessment may not definitively explain the analysis of all issues. 
The three connected transactions 
8. 
This matter involves three separate but related proposed acquisitions.  
i. Macquarie Media Group (MMG) proposes to acquire all of the shares in 
Southern Cross Broadcasting; 
ii. MMG proposes to acquire nine regional radio stations currently owned by 
Fairfax (identified in paragraph 17); and 
iii. Fairfax intends to acquire from MMG: 
• metropolitan radio stations - 3AW (Melbourne), Magic (Melbourne), 2UE 
(Sydney), 96FM (Perth), 6PR (Perth), 4BC (Brisbane) and 4BH (Brisbane); 
• Southern Cross Syndication; 
• Southern Star; and 
• Satellite Music Australia. 
 
9. 
This Public Competition Assessment relates to the first two acquisition proposals 
identified above. The ACCC granted informal clearance to the third acquisition 
proposal on 13 September 2007.  
 
 
 
 
-2- 


Macquarie Media Group - proposed acquisition of Southern Cross Broadcasting and 9 Fairfax 
Media regional radio stations 
The parties 
The Acquirer – Macquarie Media Group 
 
10. MMG is an investment vehicle managed by the Macquarie Group. MMG is listed 
on the ASX. 
11. Relevant to the proposed acquisitions, MMG owns 87 commercial radio licences 
in 45 licence areas across regional Australia and in all States.  
The Target - Southern Cross Broadcasting (Australia) Ltd 
 
12. Southern Cross Broadcasting (Australia) Ltd (Southern Cross) is listed on the 
ASX. Southern Cross controls commercial radio broadcasting licences in a 
number of areas (primarily metropolitan areas) and commercial television 
broadcasting licences in a number of licence areas (primarily regional areas). 
13. Southern Cross’ television assets include the following: 
• Southern Cross Ten, a regional television network that operates in Victoria, 
New South Wales and Queensland, with a presence in every major regional 
centre in the eastern states of Australia. Southern Cross Ten is affiliated with 
Network Ten and delivers a common program stream to viewers along the 
eastern seaboard, but with customisation for advertising and some limited 
customisation for news coverage and certain programs.  
• Southern Cross Television in Darwin, Central Australia and the Spencer Gulf 
region of South Australia. Southern Cross Darwin and Southern Cross Central 
have affiliations with the Seven network. Southern Cross Spencer Gulf 
receives programming from the Seven and Nine networks, complemented by a 
locally produced nightly news service covering the local region.1  
• Southern Cross Television’s Tasmanian operations, which broadcasts to the 
entire State of Tasmania. The Tasmanian operations are affiliated with both 
the Seven and Ten networks (i.e. a mixture of Seven and Ten content is 
shown). 
• A 50% interest in Tasmanian Digital Television, which provides a digital only 
service throughout Tasmania.  
14. Southern Cross owns assets aside from its television division. They are: 
i. A radio division comprising seven radio stations: 3AW (Melbourne), Magic 
(Melbourne), 2UE (Sydney), 96FM (Perth), 6PR (Perth), 4BC (Brisbane) 
and 4BH (Brisbane). 
ii. Southern Cross Syndication: a division of Southern Cross which distributes 
news, music, and talk back programming produced by Southern Cross’ radio 
                                                 
1 For the avoidance of doubt, in the Spencer Gulf region of South Australia, both television stations are 
owned and operated by Southern Cross. 
-3- 


Macquarie Media Group - proposed acquisition of Southern Cross Broadcasting and 9 Fairfax 
Media regional radio stations 
stations throughout Australia. The content is mainly sourced from 2UE, 
3AW, 4BC and 6PR and is syndicated to 119 radio stations in every State 
and Territory. In particular, the talk back shows and sport coverage are 
syndicated to many licence areas. 
iii. Southern Cross’ television production and distribution which is branded as 
the Southern Star Group. It is involved in film, television & video 
production, sales & distribution and licensing & merchandise.  
iv. Satellite Music Australia, which is a supplier of subscription music channels. 
It provides 30 channels of music to Foxtel and Austar for their digital pay 
television services as well as providing subscription music services to 
retailers and customised music channels including advertisements to large 
retailers. 
15. The ACCC notes that it is proposed that the radio and syndication assets described 
in paragraph 14 will be acquired by Fairfax immediately following MMG’s 
acquisition of Southern Cross.2 However, the ACCC identified competition 
concerns in the event that MMG fails to on-sell Southern Cross Syndication to 
Fairfax. This issue is discussed from paragraph 148.  
The Target – nine radio stations owned by Fairfax Media Limited 
 
16. Fairfax Media Limited (Fairfax) is a newspaper publishing group and media 
company which operates in both Australia and New Zealand. In Australia, its 
daily newspapers include The Australian Financial Review, The Sydney Morning 
Herald in Sydney and The Age in Melbourne. Fairfax also publishes regional 
newspapers and has a significant online presence. 
17. On 9 May 2007, Fairfax acquired Rural Press, which published The Canberra 
Times, ten regional dailies and over 160 non-daily regional publications. Rural 
Press also owned 9 regional commercial radio licences. The proposed acquisition 
involves MMG acquiring those 9 regional radio stations from Fairfax. The 9 
regional radio stations are:  
In Bundaberg: 
• 4BU 1332 AM 
• 93.9 HITZ FM 
In Ipswich: 
• River 94.9 
In Port Lincoln: 
• Magic FM 89.9 
• 5CC AM 
In Spencer Gulf: 
                                                 
2  This proposal was subject to a separate ACCC assessment. On 13 September 2007, the ACCC 
announced that it had decided not to oppose that proposal. 
-4- 


Macquarie Media Group - proposed acquisition of Southern Cross Broadcasting and 9 Fairfax 
Media regional radio stations 
• Magic FM 105.9 
• 5AU AM 
In Riverland: 
• Magic FM 93.1 
• 5RM AM 
Other industry participants 
18. In regional television, Prime and WIN operate television networks which have 
television stations in many of the areas in which Southern Cross operates stations. 
Other operators of regional television networks and stations include NBN and 
Imparja. 
19. In regional radio, there are several radio stations or radio networks that operate in 
some of the areas where MMG operates. However, in many regional areas MMG 
is the only commercial radio station.  
20. There are also Government-owned SBS and ABC television and radio operations 
in the areas in which Southern Cross and MMG operate.  
Areas of overlap of television and radio assets 
21. The proposed transactions would result in a situation where MMG would own a 
television station (Southern Cross) and at least one radio station in: 
• Albury 
• Atherton  
• Bendigo 
• Bundaberg 
• Burnie 
• Cairns 
• Charters Towers  
• Coffs Harbour 
• Devonport 
• Dubbo 
• Emerald  
• Gold Coast 
• Gosford 
• Hobart 
• Kempsey  
• Kingaroy 
• Launceston 
• Mackay 
• Maryborough 
• Mt Isa 
• Nambour 
• Newcastle 
• Orange  
• Queenstown  
• Rockhampton 
• Roma 
• Scottsdale  
• Shepparton 
• Toowoomba  
• Townsville 
• Wagga Wagga 
• Warragul  
• Young
 
22. The proposed transactions would result in a situation where MMG would own 
both television stations and both radio stations in:  
• Port Lincoln 
• Spencer Gulf 
 
-5- 


Macquarie Media Group - proposed acquisition of Southern Cross Broadcasting and 9 Fairfax 
Media regional radio stations 
Areas of overlap of radio assets 
 
23. The only location where the proposed transactions result in a consolidation of 
radio assets is Bundaberg, where MMG proposes to acquire 4BU and HITZ FM. 
Post-merger, MMG would own all three commercial broadcasting radio stations 
in Bundaberg, as it already owns SEA FM.  
Timing 
24. The following table outlines the timeline of key events for both acquisitions. 
Date 
Event 
23rd July 2007 
ACCC commenced review under the Merger Review Process Guidelines. 
3rd August 2007 
Closing date for submissions from interested parties. 
13th September 2007 ACCC released Statement of Issues in relation to proposed acquisitions. 
26th September 2007 Closing date for submissions in response to Statement of Issues. 
5th October 2007 
Draft undertakings offered subject to ACCC final decision on competition issues. Former 
proposed date of 10 October 2007 for announcement of ACCC's findings amended to 18 
October 2007 to allow for market consultation. 
11th October 2007 
Closing date for submissions relating to draft 87B undertakings. 
17th October 2007 
ACCC announced its decision to accept undertakings and not oppose the proposed 
acquisitions. 
 
Market inquiries 
25. The ACCC conducted extensive market inquiries with a range of industry 
participants, including: advertisers; competitors; consumers; industry bodies; local 
councils; chambers of commerce; and other interested parties.  
26. The ACCC directly spoke with approximately 500 local advertisers in the areas of 
interest. 
27. The ACCC also consulted with market participants in relation to the Statement of 
Issues and subsequently the proposed undertakings.  
Statement of Issues 
28. The ACCC published Statements of Issues on 13 September 2007 identifying a 
number of preliminary competition concerns, including concerns arising in 14 
specific regions.3 The Statements of Issues are available on the ACCC’s website.  
29. The ACCC undertook further market inquiries following the Statements of Issues 
to inform its final decision. 
Australian Communications and Media Authority (ACMA) 
30. While the ACCC has conducted a competition based assessment of the proposed 
acquisitions, the ACMA has a role in reviewing media acquisition proposals to 
determine whether the acquisitions would breach the relevant provisions of the 
Broadcasting Services Act 1992 relating to media diversity. 
                                                 
3 Bundaberg, Port Lincoln, Spencer Gulf, Hobart, Launceston, Burnie, Devonport, Queenstown, 
Scottsdale, Mt Isa, Roma, Bendigo, Shepparton and Wagga Wagga. 
-6- 


Macquarie Media Group - proposed acquisition of Southern Cross Broadcasting and 9 Fairfax 
Media regional radio stations 
31. The ACCC’s process may lead to different conclusions given that it is a 
competition based assessment rather than a diversity one.  
32. If the ACCC considers there to be a section 50 competition concern arising under 
the Trade Practices Act 1974 in a certain area, and if the ACMA has already 
accepted an undertaking to divest assets in that area, the ACCC will still require a 
suitable divestment undertaking to be given to the ACCC if the parties are to 
receive informal clearance. The ACCC requires that it be able to enforce any 
undertaking that is made to address competition concerns, and it, of course, can 
only do this if a section 87B undertaking is offered to, and accepted by it. 
33. The ACCC notes that the ACMA gave its approval for the Southern Cross 
proposed acquisition, subject to the divestment of some licences within a defined 
period. ACMA approval was given following the receipt of enforceable 
undertakings that were of a nature acceptable to ACMA. These undertakings were 
accepted by ACMA on 19 July 2007 and a copy of those undertakings can be 
found on the ACMA website at www.acma.gov.au. The divestments required by 
ACMA are in some cases different to the divestments set out in the undertakings 
accepted by the ACCC. 
34. For further information regarding the ACMA’s processes and decisions, please 
consult www.acma.gov.au.  
Framework for analysis 
35. Consistent with the principles set out in the ACCC’s paper, Media Mergers, 
published in 2006, the ACCC has considered the proposed acquisitions in relation 
to three product classes: 
• the supply of advertising opportunities to advertisers;  
• the supply of content to consumers; and 
• the acquisition of content from content providers. 
36. The ACCC’s findings in relation to each of these areas are set out below. 
37. There are links between all three product classes. For example, where a radio 
station faces competition, if the radio station loses listeners (for example because 
a competing station starts broadcasting a popular radio program), that station 
becomes less attractive to advertisers who will not be willing to pay as much for 
advertising. This will cause the station to lose advertising revenue, and creates an 
incentive for the station to improve the quality of its programming to try to attract 
listeners in order to attract advertisers.  
38. The ACCC took into consideration such links between the product classes and 
how the interactions occur. 
-7- 


Macquarie Media Group - proposed acquisition of Southern Cross Broadcasting and 9 Fairfax 
Media regional radio stations 
39. The remainder of this Public Competition Assessment is divided into four main 
sections, as follows: 
I. The supply of advertising opportunities to advertisers 
II. Consumer content 
III. Acquisition and supply of content by media operators 
IV. Undertakings accepted by the ACCC 
 
I. THE SUPPLY OF ADVERTISING OPPORTUNITIES TO ADVERTISERS 
Market definition 
40. The ACCC’s Media Mergers paper noted: 
“…the main question when considering an advertising market for merger analysis 
is: which alternative media outlets would be likely to constrain a merged media 
company from increasing its advertising prices because advertisers consider them 
to be substitutable?” 4  
41. Essentially, the ACCC’s analysis of advertising markets in this matter sought to 
establish whether the proposed acquisitions would result in advertisers facing 
higher prices for radio or television advertising due to the removal of a 
competitive constraint from the market. 
42. For example, if in a particular location there are two commercial radio stations 
owned by MMG and the price that those radio stations can charge for advertising 
is significantly constrained by the presence of Southern Cross Television, then 
Southern Cross and MMG are likely to be in the same market in that location. 
43. The ACCC assessed this issue across 35 regions where the proposed acquisitions 
by MMG would result in an aggregation of ownership of media assets. Each area 
was assessed in the context of the specific information received from market 
participants in that area and the characteristics of that area. Differences in the 
market inquiries responses and differences in the characteristics between areas 
resulted in different conclusions in relation to the relevant market definition.  
44. To arrive at a conclusion in relation to each area, the ACCC took into account a 
number of factors in forming conclusions about each area of overlap, including: 
• submissions from interested parties; 
• views of local advertisers;  
• market structure; and 
                                                 
4  p28. Media Mergers 
-8- 


Macquarie Media Group - proposed acquisition of Southern Cross Broadcasting and 9 Fairfax 
Media regional radio stations 
• geographic and population overlap.  
45.  These factors are discussed in more detail directly below. 
Submissions from interested parties 
46. The ACCC noted submissions from some interested parties that argued that the 
supply of advertising services by regional radio stations occurs in a separate 
market from the supply of advertising by other modes of delivery, such as 
television and newspapers. These parties argued that advertisers do not consider 
advertising on radio to be substitutable for advertising on television (and vice 
versa) because: 
• Different media platforms have different characteristics (e.g. audio versus 
visual, geographic reach, demographics, immediacy) which give them their 
appeal for certain types of advertising. 
• Different media platforms have different advertising prices. Television 
advertising tends to be significantly more expensive in a simple dollar 
comparison with radio advertising. This may mean that the smaller businesses 
that tend to advertise more on radio may not consider television advertising to 
be viable.  
• Different media platforms are used by advertisers for different purposes. For 
example, radio is used more as a “call to action” where as television is used 
more to build brand awareness. 
47. Other submissions from other interested parties, most notably, operators of some 
radio stations, contradicted these views and submitted that they competed directly 
with television stations for the advertising spend of businesses in their region. It 
was argued that advertisers will switch their mix of advertising between radio and 
television in response to price incentives, and that small businesses do advertise 
on television in regional areas.  
48. When faced with a hypothetical 5-10% price rise, an advertiser will consider 
whether that price rise causes its mix of advertising to be sub-optimal. That is, 
could the advertiser increase its revenue by changing its mix of advertising 
spending? To put it in simple terms, if the advertiser currently spends $5,000 with 
a particular media outlet per month and expects to earn an additional $7,000 in 
revenue as a result, it has an expectation of a $2,000 return on that advertising 
investment. A 10% price rise will mean that the advertiser must pay $5,500 to get 
$7,000 in revenue so its return on investment decreases to $1,500. If the business 
could instead spend some of that $5,000 on a different media outlet (even if a 
media outlet on a different platform) with a higher expected return on investment, 
it will be profitable for the business to switch some or all of its budget to that 
outlet. The ability and incentive to switch some or all of its advertising budget to 
that alternative outlet may mean that the alternative outlet is acting as a constraint 
on prices rises. 
-9- 


Macquarie Media Group - proposed acquisition of Southern Cross Broadcasting and 9 Fairfax 
Media regional radio stations 
Views of local advertisers 
49. The ACCC spoke directly with approximately 500 local advertisers in the areas of 
overlap. The primary purpose of these discussions was to gauge the ways in which 
advertisers use different advertising media as well as their views on the extent to 
which they considered radio and television advertising to be substitutable. 
50. The ACCC’s market inquiries indicated that a business usually has an advertising 
budget which it spends in a way that it considers will provide it with the greatest 
increase in revenue. Some businesses spend their whole budget on a particular 
platform while others use a mix of advertising across different advertising 
platforms. 
51. Broadly, advertisers can be placed in one of the following categories: 
• Group A – advertisers who only used one of either radio or television and 
would not consider using the other form of advertising at all, even if, 
hypothetically, they faced a price rise of 5-10% in the mode of advertising 
they currently utilise. 
• Group B – advertisers who use both radio and television advertising but do 
not consider them substitutable. In other words, these advertisers would not 
switch any, or only a very small part, of their advertising budget from radio to 
television if the price of radio advertising increased 5 to 10% (with no 
improvement in coverage). Or alternatively, these advertisers would not 
switch any, or only a very small part, of their advertising budget from 
television to radio if the price of television advertising increased 5 to 10% 
(with no improvement in coverage).  
• Group C – advertisers who use both radio and television advertising and 
consider them substitutable (i.e. they would switch a significant part of their 
advertising budget, although not necessarily all of their budget, between radio 
and television depending on which mode of delivery offers the best deal for 
their business).  
• Group D – advertisers who use either or both of radio and television, but 
consider that other forms of advertising, such a local newspapers, mail drop-
outs, internet, billboard or sponsorships, place a stronger competitive 
constraint on radio or television, compared to the competitive constraint that 
radio and television place on each other.  
52. The ACCC found that every business has different perceptions in relation to the 
substitutability between different forms of advertising and values the modes 
differently.  
53. In general, the more advertisers in a particular region that fall into group C, the 
more likely it is that radio and television stations in that region compete for 
advertisers, and are therefore likely to be strong substitutes and are in the same 
market. This is because the willingness of these advertisers to switch between 
-10- 


Macquarie Media Group - proposed acquisition of Southern Cross Broadcasting and 9 Fairfax 
Media regional radio stations 
radio and television is likely to act as a constraint on radio and television owners 
raising prices. 
54. The size of group C within each area varied significantly across the 35 areas of 
overlap and this had a significant bearing on the views the ACCC reached in 
relation to market definition in each area. 
55. The ACCC noted that advertising rates, although typically based on a “rate card”, 
are often negotiated individually between a business and the advertising 
salesperson. Advertisers use the threat of switching their advertising budget to 
another media outlet as a means of bargaining down their price of advertising with 
a given media outlet. The more options an advertiser has and the more willing 
they are to switch, the stronger will be their ability to bargain down their price of 
advertising. Market inquiries revealed that the media company salespeople are 
fully aware of the alternative options that an advertiser is likely to consider 
effective. Therefore, the suppliers of advertising space will price discriminate, by 
not offering the very best advertising deals to those advertisers that do not have 
effective alternatives. While this form of price-discrimination does not necessarily 
alter the market definition, it raises the prospect that a certain body of customers, 
in particular those in group C, may be harmed through a reduction in competition 
brought about by the merger, even if other customers are not adversely affected.  
Market structure 
56. The 35 areas of overlap displayed different market structures in terms of the 
number of separately owned radio stations and the number of separately owned 
television stations. 
57. The ACCC found that the closest substitutes usually exist within one media 
platform when the outlets on that platform are separately and independently 
owned. For example, in a town where there are three television stations and three 
separately owned radio stations, a business that advertises on one radio station is 
generally likely to consider substituting to advertising on the other radio stations 
before it considers substituting to television. This is not to say that the radio 
advertiser will not use television advertising; only that the advertiser’s response to 
a 5-10% price rise in the radio station it uses is likely to be to consider switching 
to other radio stations before considering switching to television advertising. 
58. A different situation occurs when there is a single owner of all radio stations in a 
particular region. In this situation, the strongest source of competitive constraint 
on the radio station owner can come from a different platform (e.g. television 
advertising). 
Geographic and population overlap 
59. In some regions the area and population covered by the radio broadcasts differs in 
size to the area and population covered by the television broadcasts.  
60. For example, the population covered by radio broadcasts from Emerald is 42,000. 
The population covered by television broadcasts to that area is 194,000 (primarily 
-11- 


Macquarie Media Group - proposed acquisition of Southern Cross Broadcasting and 9 Fairfax 
Media regional radio stations 
because the television signal also covers the larger populations in Rockhampton 
and Gladstone). This is shown in the diagram below. 
 
 
Approximate 
radio licence 
area covering 
Emerald 
(pop 42,000) 
Gladstone 
(pop 30,000) 
Rockhampton 
(pop 60,000) 
Emerald 
(pop 10,000) 
Television coverage area 
(shaded) relevant to 
Emerald (pop 194,000) 
61. This difference between the population covered by radio stations and television 
stations in Emerald makes it less likely that advertisers in Emerald would consider 
advertising on television as a close substitute for advertising on radio. 
62. This is because many local businesses in Emerald are unlikely to find it attractive 
to purchase television advertising because the audience of the television signal is 
spread across a far greater area than the area from which the business may be 
trying to attract customers. The local business would have to pay higher 
advertising rates for the broadcast to viewers from the wider area, when many of 
those viewers may not be relevant to its business. That is, people in Rockhampton 
and Gladstone, in this example, are highly unlikely to travel to Emerald to 
purchase most goods and services. However, some businesses in Emerald may 
seek the wider coverage and still consider radio and television to be substitutable.  
63. In contrast, where the radio and television broadcast populations of a town 
compare closely, such as in Bendigo (with a population of 226,000 for television 
compared with 186,000 for radio), advertisers in that region are more likely to 
consider advertising on the two media forms substitutable.  
64. In line with this reasoning, the ACCC found that for regions where the population 
reached by the television stations was much larger than the population reached by 
the radio stations in that region, the use of television advertising by local 
-12- 


Macquarie Media Group - proposed acquisition of Southern Cross Broadcasting and 9 Fairfax 
Media regional radio stations 
advertisers was generally lower. However, the ACCC noted that radio and 
television licence areas are not strictly defined. Radio signals can extend beyond 
the licence area, which can therefore have the effect of attracting listeners from a 
wider area.  
Conclusion – market definition 
65. The key issue in analysing the market definitions was the degree of substitution. 
In each of the relevant geographic areas, the ACCC found a certain degree of 
substitution between radio and television, but the focus of its assessment was 
whether substitution was strong enough such that radio and television advertising 
could be considered to be in the same market.  
66. Further, the ACCC assessed, on a case-by-case basis, whether substitution with 
other forms of advertising, particularly print advertising, was such that it should 
be included in the relevant advertising market.  
67. Given the characteristics and market inquiry responses differed between different 
regions, the ACCC did not adopt a “one-size-fits-all” market definition when 
assessing the relevant advertising markets. Rather, the ACCC looked at each area 
on a case-by-case basis, placing importance on the views and experiences of local 
advertisers in each area and the prevailing market structure.  
68. In Bundaberg, the ACCC considered that radio advertising was in a separate 
market since market inquiries indicated that other forms of advertising did not act 
as a strong constraint on radio advertising in Bundaberg.  
69. In each of Burnie, Devonport, Launceston, Port Lincoln and Spencer Gulf, the 
ACCC considered that there was a combined market for advertising on radio and 
television. In these regions, market inquiries revealed a significant proportion of 
advertisers that considered radio and television substitutable. The lack of 
significant competition from independent commercial radio stations was also 
important. The ACCC did not consider that other forms of advertising, such as 
print advertising, were close substitutes.  
70. In relation to other areas, the ACCC did not consider it necessary to reach a 
conclusive view because, irrespective of whether the relevant markets were 
defined as a combined market for advertising on radio and television or separate 
markets for radio or television, the ACCC took the view that the acquisitions were 
unlikely to raise competition concerns.  
Competition analysis  
71. Following a preliminary round of market inquiries, the ACCC released a 
Statement of Issues for each of the proposed acquisitions on 13 September 2007. 
72. In relation to advertising markets, the ACCC formed preliminary views in relation 
to the likely level of concern in each region. Each region was categorised as either 
an area unlikely to raise concerns; an area that may raise concerns; or an area 
likely to raise concerns. 
-13- 


Macquarie Media Group - proposed acquisition of Southern Cross Broadcasting and 9 Fairfax 
Media regional radio stations 
73. The following regions were identified as areas that were unlikely to pose concerns 
in advertising markets:
• Albury 
• Atherton  
• Cairns  
• Charters Towers  
• Coffs Harbour  
• Dubbo  
• Emerald  
• Gold Coast  
• Gosford  
• Kempsey  
• Kingaroy  
• Mackay  
• Maryborough  
• Nambour  
• Newcastle  
• Orange  
• Rockhampton  
• Toowoomba  
• Townsville  
• Warragul 
• Young
 
74. Competition concerns in advertising markets were considered unlikely in these 
regions, primarily for reasons including the following: 
• a limited number of advertisers considered radio and television advertising to 
be substitutable;  
• for those advertisers that considered radio and television substitutable, they 
considered that alternative television stations and, in some cases, alternative 
commercial radio stations, would provide an effective constraint on a 
combined MMG-Southern Cross post-acquisition; and 
• for some areas the populations covered by the radio and television stations in 
those regions do not overlap to a large degree, suggesting that businesses who 
wish to advertise on radio may be less likely to advertise on television (or 
vice-versa). 
75. Following further market inquiries after the release of the Statements of Issues, 
the ACCC confirmed its views in relation to the areas listed above. 
76. In the Statements of Issues the ACCC identified several towns/cities as areas that 
may raise competition concerns. However, upon making further market inquiries, 
the ACCC formed the view that competition concerns were unlikely to occur in 
many of these areas. These areas were: 
• Bendigo 
• Hobart  
• Mt Isa  
• Queenstown  
• Roma  
• Scottsdale  
• Shepparton  
• Wagga Wagga  
 
-14- 


Macquarie Media Group - proposed acquisition of Southern Cross Broadcasting and 9 Fairfax 
Media regional radio stations 
-15- 
77. These regions can be categorised into three broad groups: 
• Bendigo, Shepparton and Wagga Wagga – while the geographic and 
population overlap between the radio and television broadcast areas are 
similar in these regions, further market inquiries revealed that, to the extent 
that advertisers consider radio and television substitutable, WIN and PRIME 
are likely to competitively constrain the merged-entity. 
• Hobart – further market inquiries indicated that, post-acquisition, WIN and 
HO-FM will provide alternative options for advertisers in Hobart. While the 
ACCC’s decision in relation to Hobart was finely balanced, the ACCC was 
satisfied that the acquisition of Southern Cross would not be likely to provide 
the opportunity for the merged-entity to materially raise the price of 
advertising, and, accordingly, was not likely to result in a substantial lessening 
of competition in Hobart.  
• Mt Isa, Queenstown, Roma and Scottsdale5 – further analysis and market 
inquiries indicated that substitution between radio and television by 
advertisers in these regions was highly unlikely, mainly due to the large 
discrepancy between the sizes of the broadcast areas for television and radio 
relevant to these regions. 
78. Following further market inquiries after the release of the Statements of Issues, 
the ACCC formed the view that competition concerns in relation to advertising 
markets were likely in: 
• Bundaberg 
• Burnie 
• Devonport 
• Launceston 
• Port Lincoln 
• Spencer Gulf 
 
79. Each of these areas is discussed in more detail below. 
Bundaberg 
80. MMG is proposing to acquire 4BU and HITZ FM from Fairfax, and Southern 
Cross Television. MMG already owns SEA FM in Bundaberg. Accordingly, post-
acquisition MMG would be the sole owner of all commercial broadcast radio 
stations in Bundaberg.6 
                                                 
5 While the ACCC formed the view that competition concerns were unlikely in advertising markets in 
Queenstown and Scottsdale, Macquarie’s radio stations in these towns were included as part of the 
divestiture package pursuant to the section 87B undertaking accepted by the ACCC. This is because the 
ACCC needed to ensure that the purchaser of the divestiture assets in Tasmania would have the scale to 
be a viable, vigorous and effective competitor to the merged-entity. 
6  The ACCC notes that MMG gave enforceable undertakings to ACMA to divest a radio station in 
Bundaberg (4BU). As noted in paragraph 32, if the ACCC considers there to be a section 50 
competition concern arising under the Trade Practices Act 1974 in a certain area, and if the ACMA has 
already accepted an undertaking to divest assets in that area, the ACCC will still require a suitable 
divestment undertaking to be given to the ACCC if the parties are to receive informal clearance. 


Macquarie Media Group - proposed acquisition of Southern Cross Broadcasting and 9 Fairfax 
Media regional radio stations 
-16- 
81. Market inquiries indicated that other forms of advertising did not act as a strong 
constraint on radio advertising in this region. Significant concerns were expressed 
by advertisers in Bundaberg at the prospect of all three commercial radio stations 
being owned by a single entity, particularly the prospect of increased radio 
advertising prices.  
82. The ACCC considered that barriers to entry for a new radio station in Bundaberg 
would likely to be significant, particularly given the lack of availability of 
licences and likely difficulties in overcoming listener loyalty towards incumbents.  
83. The ACCC considered the acquisition of 4BU and HITZ FM by MMG would be 
likely to substantially lessen competition in the market for the supply of radio 
advertising. The undertakings accepted by the ACCC to address this competition 
concern are discussed later.  
Burnie and Devonport 
84. The market structures in Burnie and Devonport are very similar to one another. 
85. MMG already owns both commercial radio stations in each town and is proposing 
to acquire Southern Cross Television. The only other commercial television 
station is WIN.7  
86. A substantial proportion of advertisers in Burnie and Devonport considered radio 
and television advertising substitutable. The ACCC noted the discrepancy in the 
size of the radio and television broadcast areas and populations covering Burnie 
and Devonport (the television population being around four times larger), but the 
views of market inquiries revealed a high degree of substitutability. Market 
inquiries indicated that other forms of advertising, including newspaper 
advertising, were not likely to act as a viable constraint on radio and television 
advertising rates in Burnie and Devonport.  
87. Post-acquisition, to the extent that any constraint on the merged entity was to 
exist, it would come from WIN television. Information provided to the ACCC 
indicated that WIN is the weaker of the two television stations, particularly in 
northern Tasmania. The ACCC considered that WIN television would be likely to 
impose a relatively weak competitive constraint on the merged entity, and that the 
price of advertising on both radio and television for Burnie and Devonport 
businesses would be likely to increase post-acquisition. The ACCC considered the 
acquisition of Southern Cross by MMG would be likely to substantially lessen 
competition in the market for the supply of television and radio advertising in 
Burnie and Devonport. The undertakings accepted by the ACCC to address this 
competition concern are discussed from paragraph 153. 
                                                 
7 A digital-only television station, jointly owned by WIN and Southern Cross also operates across 
Tasmania, including Burnie. However, the ACCC considered that because the station was digital only 
it would not reach the same audience as the other television stations owned by WIN and Southern 
Cross. Market inquiries indicated that advertisers did not consider the digital channel to be a viable 
advertising option. 


Macquarie Media Group - proposed acquisition of Southern Cross Broadcasting and 9 Fairfax 
Media regional radio stations 
-17- 
Launceston 
88. MMG currently owns 7LA, an AM radio station in Launceston. The only other 
commercial radio station in Launceston is 7EX – a station focussed mainly on 
broadcasting racing programming. The two commercial television stations 
servicing Launceston are Southern Cross and WIN. 
89. Advertisers contacted by the ACCC in Launceston considered 7EX to be only a 
very limited advertising alternative. 
90. Although the ACCC did have close regard to the possibility that 7EX could 
change its format or approach, and become a more effective constraint on the 
merged entity if the merged entity attempted to raise prices, the ACCC concluded 
that 7EX would be unlikely to provide a significant competitive constraint on the 
merged entity in the foreseeable future.  
91. The potential audience of the television stations covering Launceston is 
approximately twice as large as the potential radio audience. However, market 
participants, particularly medium to large businesses located in Launceston, 
considered radio and television substitutable and were concerned that their only 
effective alternative option post-acquisition would be WIN television. Market 
inquiries also indicated that the relative strength of Southern Cross in Northern 
Tasmania is likely to limit the extent to which advertisers are willing to switch to 
WIN television.  
92. The ACCC concluded that the merged entity would face limited constraint in the 
supply of radio and television advertising in the Launceston market, and that 
prices would be likely to rise for radio and television advertising for Launceston 
businesses post-acquisition.  
93. In light of the above, the ACCC formed the view that the acquisition of Southern 
Cross would be likely to result in a substantial lessening of competition in 
Launceston. The undertakings accepted by the ACCC to address this competition 
concern are discussed from paragraph 153. 
Port Lincoln and Spencer Gulf 
94. The market structures in Port Lincoln and Spencer Gulf were found to be very 
similar. 
95. There are two commercial radio stations in each of Port Lincoln and Spencer Gulf 
that are currently owned by Fairfax. MMG proposes to acquire these stations from 
Fairfax. 
96. There are two commercial television stations in each of Port Lincoln and Spencer 
Gulf, all owned by Southern Cross. MMG will acquire control of these stations 
through the proposed acquisition of Southern Cross. 
97. The effect of both transactions would be that MMG would own all commercial 
radio and television stations in Port Lincoln and Spencer Gulf. 


Macquarie Media Group - proposed acquisition of Southern Cross Broadcasting and 9 Fairfax 
Media regional radio stations 
-18- 
98. The potential audience populations for the radio stations and television stations of 
these areas are very similar, making it more likely that advertisers would be 
willing to substitute between radio and television advertising. This was confirmed 
by market inquiries, which revealed concerns from advertisers that the 
acquisitions would result in a single owner of all of the radio and television 
advertising options in those regions. These advertisers were concerned that this 
would enable MMG to raise the price of radio and/or television advertising. The 
advertisers did not consider that other forms of advertising, such as newspaper, 
mail-drop or internet advertising, would provide a significant competitive 
constraint on MMG post acquisition.  
99. The ACCC therefore considered that a significant number of advertisers would 
likely be faced with a reduction in competition and would be likely to face a 
significant price increase post-acquisition.  
100. For this reason, the ACCC formed the view that the acquisitions would be likely 
to result in a substantial lessening of competition in television and radio 
advertising markets in Port Lincoln and Spencer Gulf. The undertakings accepted 
by the ACCC to address this competition concern are discussed from paragraph 
153. 
Bundling 
 
101. Aside from the horizontal aggregation issues discussed above, the ACCC 
considered whether the acquisitions would have the potential to raise competition 
concerns in certain regions based on MMG potentially bundling the sale of 
advertising on television and radio such that competition would be substantially 
lessened. Bundling tends to potentially raise competition concerns where there are 
related, but separate markets. In this matter, in regions where radio and television 
advertising markets are separate, there may be potential for bundling because 
some advertising customers may use both forms of advertising and the merged 
entity will be a provider of both. 
102. The ACCC considered that in some areas, bundling of radio and television 
advertising is likely to occur and may even have the result of reducing the number 
of advertising customers that can be accessed by competing radio and television 
stations. However, the ACCC considered that the extent to which this would be 
harmful to competition in most areas was minimal. In particular, the ACCC noted 
that a high proportion of television advertising in regional areas is placed by 
national advertisers, who are unlikely to utilise local radio advertising. Further, in 
most areas there is at least one competing television station that limits the 
potential harm to competition from bundling.  
103. The exceptions to this view are Port Lincoln and Spencer Gulf where, post-
acquisition, MMG would be the sole owner of television and radio stations. The 
ACCC considered that, in the event that competition concerns did not arise from 
the substitutability between advertising on radio and television in Port Lincoln 
and Spencer Gulf, then it is likely that competition concerns would still have 
arisen due to the potential for anti-competitive bundling which would raise 
barriers to entry and thus raise competition concerns.  


Macquarie Media Group - proposed acquisition of Southern Cross Broadcasting and 9 Fairfax 
Media regional radio stations 
-19- 
                                                
Conclusions – advertising markets 
104. The ACCC formed the view that the acquisitions were likely to result in a 
substantial lessening of competition in advertising markets in: 
• Bundaberg 
• Burnie 
• Devonport 
• Launceston 
• Port Lincoln 
• Spencer Gulf 
 
105. MMG offered undertakings to divest radio stations in relation to all of these areas. 
The undertakings, which were accepted by the ACCC, are discussed from 
paragraph 153.  
II. CONSUMER CONTENT 
106. The ACCC’s Media Mergers paper highlighted that when assessing a media 
merger, the ACCC will: 
“…consider whether a merged media business could exercise market power by 
reducing the quality of the content it provides consumers, which could include 
reducing the diversity of the content it provides.” 8  
107. The paper also notes: 
“…when considering the supply of content to consumers, if the price of one 
source of content rises, or its quality falls post merger, what are the real 
alternatives for consumers?9  
108. This is the critical question to answer when looking at the likely impact of the 
proposed acquisitions on the supply of content to consumers. As the media forms 
in question are provided to consumers without charge, the relevant consideration 
for this transaction is the alternatives to consumers in the event of a reduction in 
quality. 
Market definition 
Product dimension 
109. In relation to consumer content, the ACCC considered that the most likely area of 
competition concern between the operations of Southern Cross and of MMG radio 
stations was in the supply of local news and information. 
 
8 
p6 Media Mergers 
9 
p5 Media Mergers 


Macquarie Media Group - proposed acquisition of Southern Cross Broadcasting and 9 Fairfax 
Media regional radio stations 
-20- 
110. The ACCC considered that there is a much wider range of sources available for 
other types of content which are relevant to the proposed transaction. For 
example, state, national and international news and opinion are extensively 
covered in state and national newspapers, as well as on the internet, pay TV and 
the ABC and SBS, for example. Therefore the ACCC focussed on the provision of 
local news and information. The ACCC considered that generally, local news and 
information is distinct from, and not substitutable for, other types of news and 
information such as international news or sports news. 
111. Given that local news and information is typically provided as part of a package 
along with other news, such as international and national news, the ACCC 
focussed on markets for the provision of a package of news which includes 
significant local news and information relevant to the specific geographic area.  
112. A key issue in considering this matter was whether different platforms for news 
are in the same market. Information in relation to the substitutability of packages 
of local news and information content is not readily available. As such, for 
completeness, the ACCC considered it appropriate to consider the likely impact of 
the merger on the basis of two possible alternative market definitions. The first 
was to consider ‘platform–specific’ markets (i.e. separate television, radio and 
newspaper markets) for the supply of a package of news that includes significant 
local news and information relevant to the specific geographic area. If such a 
definition is adopted, then no aggregation will occur under this market definition 
in any area except Bundaberg. The second was to consider that radio and 
television would be in the same market for the provision of a package of news that 
includes significant local news. 
113. The ACCC considered that if the proposed acquisition would not raise concerns in 
these markets, then it would not be necessary to consider further the 
substitutability of other forms of media, such as local news and information 
provided through local newspapers or the internet. But where preliminary 
competition concerns were identified, the ACCC considered further whether, in 
the relevant geographic area, sources of news other than television and radio were 
substitutable.  
Geographic dimension 
114. Regardless of whether platform-specific or cross-media markets are defined for 
the supply of content to consumers, the ACCC considered that radio licence areas 
are likely to define the appropriate geographic boundaries of these markets for the 
purposes of the competition assessment. This is because radio licence areas will 
usually define the area of overlap between the operations of the television and 
radio operations in the provision of content.  
Competition analysis 
115. The ACCC’s inquiries revealed that the extent of the supply of local news content 
differed by region. Specifically: 
• In Victoria, NSW and Queensland, Southern Cross produces a limited amount 
of local news in the form of local news “updates” throughout the day which 
total around 9 minutes per day. In these States, in the majority of areas of 


Macquarie Media Group - proposed acquisition of Southern Cross Broadcasting and 9 Fairfax 
Media regional radio stations 
-21- 
overlap, there are two competing television stations which produce at least as 
much local content. In these regions, there is usually a small amount of local 
news produced by the local MMG radio station and, in some cases, by the 
competing radio station(s). There is often local news provided by local 
newspapers in these areas. 
• In Tasmania, Southern Cross produces a 30 minute nightly news bulletin as 
well as news updates throughout the day. In Tasmania, WIN is the only other 
commercial television broadcaster which produces a similar amount of local 
news content. The ABC also produces a nightly Tasmanian news service. In 
Tasmania, there is usually a small amount of local news produced by the local 
MMG radio stations in Hobart and Launceston and by the competing radio 
station – HO-FM – in Hobart. 
• In Port Lincoln and Spencer Gulf, where Southern Cross owns both television 
stations, it produces a 30 minute nightly news bulletin which is broadcast on 
one of its stations. In these regions, the local Fairfax radio stations (which 
MMG proposes to acquire) produce local news and information content in-
house. 
Victoria, NSW and Queensland 
116. Generally, in each of the areas of overlap in Victoria, NSW and Queensland, it 
was found that consumers had access to a number of television and radio (and in 
some cases, newspaper) options from which they could source local news content.  
117. Southern Cross and MMG did not appear to be particularly significant providers 
of local news content in any of these areas. Other television and radio stations in 
these areas tend to provide at least as much local news content as Southern Cross 
and MMG. 
118. The ACCC did not consider that the aggregation of Southern Cross and MMG 
radio stations in the areas of overlap in Victoria, NSW and Queensland would be 
likely to raise competition concerns in relation to the supply of local news content, 
whether looking at a combined television-radio market or separate markets. 
119. The ACCC did not consider that the existence of Southern Cross as a possible 
competitor was a significant factor for MMG when MMG made decisions about 
the quantity and quality of local news to provide. Similarly, the ACCC did not 
consider that the existence of MMG as a possible competitor was a significant 
factor for Southern Cross when Southern Cross made decisions about the quantity 
and quality of local news to provide. 
120. For these reasons, the ACCC did not consider the acquisition of Southern Cross 
would be likely to raise competition concerns in the supply of content to 
consumers in Victoria, NSW and Queensland. In particular, the ACCC did not 
consider there would be a reduction in competition in the supply of packages of 
news which include significant local news and information relevant to the specific 
geographic area. 


Macquarie Media Group - proposed acquisition of Southern Cross Broadcasting and 9 Fairfax 
Media regional radio stations 
-22- 
Tasmania 
121. The key distinction between Tasmania and the above regions is that Tasmania 
only has two commercial television operators whereas in most parts of Victoria, 
NSW and Queensland, there are three.  
122. The key question is what options would consumers have in the event that the 
merged-entity attempted to reduce the quality or quantity of local news content? 
123. The alternatives available to consumers would be WIN, the ABC (television and 
radio) and in Hobart, the HO-FM radio station. In addition, there are three major 
local newspapers in Tasmania – The Mercury (based in Hobart), The Examiner 
(based in Launceston) and The Advocate (based in Burnie) – all of which provide 
local news coverage. 
124. The ACCC did not consider that the aggregation of Southern Cross and MMG 
radio stations would be likely to raise competition concerns in the supply of local 
news content to the areas of overlap in Tasmania, whether looking at a combined 
television-radio market or separate markets. 
125. The ACCC did not consider that the existence of Southern Cross as a possible 
competitor was a significant factor for MMG when MMG made decisions about 
the quantity and quality of local news to provide. Similarly, the ACCC did not 
consider that the existence of MMG as a possible competitor was a significant 
factor for Southern Cross when Southern Cross made decisions about the quantity 
and quality of local news to provide. 
126. For these reasons, the ACCC did not consider the acquisition of Southern Cross 
would be likely to raise competition concerns in the supply of content to 
consumers in the relevant regions in Tasmania. In particular, the ACCC did not 
consider there was likely to be a substantial lessening of competition in the supply 
of packages of news which include significant local news and information 
relevant to the specific geographic area. 
Port Lincoln and Spencer Gulf 
127. After the two acquisitions, MMG would own both commercial television and both 
commercial radio stations in these regions. 
128. In Port Lincoln and Spencer Gulf, the ACCC considered that the provision of 
television and radio were close substitutes in the provision of packages of news 
which include significant local news and information relevant to the specific 
geographic area.  
129. The ACCC had concerns that the acquisitions would create the potential for MMG 
to reduce the quality of local news and information broadcast to these regions. 
The ACCC considered that radio and television are close constraints in the supply 
of content to consumers.  


Macquarie Media Group - proposed acquisition of Southern Cross Broadcasting and 9 Fairfax 
Media regional radio stations 
-23- 
130. The only other source of daily local news and information would be any local 
news and information provided by ABC television and radio. Whilst the ACCC 
considered ABC radio and television could be viable competitors to the local 
news and information supplied by Fairfax and Southern Cross, it would constitute 
only one or two out of five or six media outlets in each of Port Lincoln and the 
Spencer Gulf. The ACCC considered the merger would result in a substantial 
reduction of competitive constraints in the supply of local news and information. 
131. The ACCC also had regard to the existence of bi-weekly local newspapers that are 
distributed to individual towns within the Port Lincoln and Spencer Gulf radio 
licence areas. However, it considered that in the event of a reduction in quality of 
local news and content delivered via television and radio, it is unlikely that these 
bi-weekly and weekly local newspapers would be considered real alternatives for 
consumers. The ACCC had regard to the possibility of a new daily paper 
becoming established, but did not consider this would impose a significant 
constraint within a reasonable timeframe.  
132. For these reasons, the ACCC considered that the acquisitions would be likely to 
raise competition concerns in the supply of content to consumers in Port Lincoln 
and Spencer Gulf. In particular, the ACCC considered there would be a reduction 
in competition in the supply of packages of news which include significant local 
news and information relevant to the specific geographic area. 
133. The undertakings accepted by the ACCC to address this competition concern are 
discussed from paragraph 153.  
Bundaberg 
134. Post-acquisitions, MMG would own three commercial radio stations and Southern 
Cross television station in Bundaberg.10 MMG would become the owner of 4BU 
and HITZ FM in addition to SEA FM. ABC radio would be the fourth source of 
local radio news.  
135. The other sources of local news and information in the region would come from 
television stations Seven, WIN and the ABC, and a local newspaper.  
136. The Fairfax radio stations produce a substantial amount of local content in and for 
Bundaberg, including half hourly local news updates.  
137. The ACCC had concerns that the acquisition of 4BU and HITZ FM would create 
potential for MMG to reduce the quality of local news and information broadcast 
on the radio stations in Bundaberg due to the removal of its closest competitors.  
138. The undertakings accepted by the ACCC to address this competition concern are 
discussed from paragraph 153.  
                                                 
10 The ACCC notes that MMG gave enforceable undertakings to ACMA to divest a radio station in 
Bundaberg (4BU). As noted in paragraph 32, if the ACCC considers there to be a section 50 
competition concern arising under the Trade Practices Act 1974 in a certain area, and if the ACMA has 
already accepted an undertaking to divest assets in that area, the ACCC will still require a suitable 
divestment undertaking to be given to the ACCC if the parties are to receive informal clearance. 


Macquarie Media Group - proposed acquisition of Southern Cross Broadcasting and 9 Fairfax 
Media regional radio stations 
-24- 
Cross-promotion  
139. The ACCC considered whether the merged-entity could use its market power 
gained from having a monopoly in the supply of content to consumers through 
one medium (for example radio) to lessen competition in the supply of content 
through the other medium (television). MMG has a monopoly in commercial 
radio in many licence areas where there will be overlap with Southern Cross.  
140. Competition concerns would most feasibly occur through the merged-entity cross-
promoting its affiliated television or radio network.  
141. The ACCC considered that these strategies would only be likely to be problematic 
for competition if they somehow foreclose competing television networks from 
promoting their own shows. The ACCC did not consider that this would be the 
case, since radio would only be one method by which a television station would 
promote its own shows. The ACCC considered self-promotion (i.e. advertising by 
a station of its own programmes) is likely to be the most common form of 
television promotion. While radio and television operators do advertise their 
programmes on the opposite medium, they are not significant advertising 
customers of each other. Therefore, the extent to which a television station will be 
curtailed from promoting their content by a television competitor holding a 
monopoly over the radio stations in the region is likely to be minimal. 
 
III. ACQUISITION AND SUPPLY OF CONTENT BY MEDIA OPERATORS 
142. In addition to the ACCC's assessment of the acquisitions by MMG of Southern 
Cross Broadcasting and of nine Fairfax radio stations, the ACCC also assessed a 
separate, but related proposal whereby, following MMG’s proposed acquisition of 
Southern Cross, Fairfax would acquire from MMG the following assets:  
1. Metropolitan radio stations - 3AW and Magic (Melbourne), 2UE (Sydney), 
96FM and 6PR (Perth), 4BC and 4BH (Brisbane); 
2. Southern Star television production;  
3. Southern Cross Syndication (which on-sells radio content); and 
4. Satellite Music Australia. 
143. While the ACCC decided not to oppose this proposal, it was necessary for the 
ACCC to consider the possibility that this transaction would not progress as 
intended. That is, that MMG would retain the above assets and they not be sold to 
Fairfax. 
144. The focus of this part of the ACCC's assessment was particularly on the 
possibility of MMG retaining Southern Cross Syndication (SCS). SCS is a 
supplier of syndicated content produced by Southern Cross radio stations and 
third parties to regional radio stations and networks around Australia.  
145. The ACCC considered that there was a national market for the supply of radio 
content to radio stations. The ACCC did not investigate whether there were 


Macquarie Media Group - proposed acquisition of Southern Cross Broadcasting and 9 Fairfax 
Media regional radio stations 
-25- 
separate markets for the different types of content, as it would not have altered the 
competition analysis in this area. Accordingly, this question remains open. 
Horizontal aggregation of content suppliers 
146. MMG is not a significant supplier of radio content to radio stations it does not 
own. The aggregation of MMG and Southern Cross' radio assets (in the event that 
Fairfax does not acquire the metropolitan radio stations from MMG) does not 
provide the merged-entity with any ability to increase the price of content it 
supplies to third parties or reduce its quality. 
147. The ACCC considers that, on a basic horizontal analysis, competition concerns 
are unlikely to arise in the aggregation of radio content providers. 
Vertical issues 
148. The ACCC considered whether, in the event that MMG retains SCS, concerns 
would arise with respect to MMG having the incentive to disadvantage its 
regional competitors. In some regions, MMG would be a supplier of key content 
to radio stations it competes with for audiences and advertising revenue.  
149. The ACCC's inquiries revealed that, while some significant content is produced 
by other radio networks, many of these networks do not syndicate their content 
and are unlikely to provide their content to regional radio stations. Further, SCS 
syndicates several shows which are number one radio programs for particular 
demographics, and are often considered “must have” content (e.g. talk back and 
sport coverage).  
150. The ACCC considered that if MMG retained SCS, it would become a critical 
supplier of content to its regional radio rivals. The ACCC considered that MMG 
would then potentially have the ability and incentive to: 
• retain the Southern Cross content exclusively for its own regional radio 
stations which may result in possible foreclosure of MMG’s regional radio 
rivals; and/or  
• increase the price of Southern Cross content for its radio competitors, thereby 
raising its rivals’ costs. 
151. For these reasons, the ACCC considered that if MMG were to retain SCS this 
would be likely to give rise to substantial competition concerns. 
152. MMG offered, and the ACCC accepted, court-enforceable undertakings which 
address the issues identified above. The undertakings are discussed below. 
 
IV. UNDERTAKINGS ACCEPTED BY THE ACCC 
153. The undertakings offered by MMG and accepted by the ACCC involve 
obligations to divest: 
• 4BU in Bundaberg; 
• 5CC and Magic FM in Port Lincoln;  


Macquarie Media Group - proposed acquisition of Southern Cross Broadcasting and 9 Fairfax 
Media regional radio stations 
-26- 
• 5AU and Magic FM in Spencer Gulf; 
• 7LA in Launceston; 
• 7BU in Burnie; 
• 7AD in Devonport; 
• 7XS and the right to a new licence in Queenstown; and 
• 7SD and SEA FM in Scottsdale. 
154. The undertakings also require that these assets be held separate, independently 
managed and operated during the divestiture period. Although the ACCC did not 
consider there were competition concerns specifically in Queenstown and 
Scottsdale, MMG’s radio stations in these towns were included as part of the 
divestiture package to ensure there was a suite of assets providing the divestiture 
business with sufficient scale and scope such that a prospective purchaser could 
establish a viable and independent competitor to the merged entity, and thereby 
resolve the ACCC’s competition concerns. Furthermore, the Queenstown and 
Scottsdale assets were not easily separated from the other radio assets, so it was 
considered including these assets would ensure a more effective divestment 
process.  
155. MMG also provided an undertaking to divest Southern Cross Syndication and 
related assets to an approved purchaser, in the event that these assets were not on-
sold to Fairfax shortly after the proposed acquisition of Southern Cross by MMG. 
The undertaking was designed to resolve the competition concern the ACCC had 
in relation to the possibility that MMG would retain Southern Cross Syndication, 
even though MMG’s stated intention was to on-sell the assets to Fairfax shortly 
after acquiring Southern Cross.  
 
156. The ACCC considered that the undertakings addressed all of the competition 
concerns in all of the relevant markets. The undertakings are all available on the 
ACCC’s website.  
 
CONCLUSION 
157. On the basis of the above, including taking into account the undertakings accepted 
by the ACCC, the ACCC formed the view that MMG's proposed acquisitions of 
Southern Cross Broadcasting and of Fairfax's nine regional radio stations would 
not be likely to result in a substantial lessening of competition in any of the 
relevant markets in contravention of section 50 of the Act. 
 
