Freehills
Undertaking
Singapore Power International I Babcock & Brown
acquisition of Alinta shares
Undertaking to the Australian
Competition and Consumer Commission
given under s87B of the Trade Practices
Act 1974 by Babcock & Brown
Infrastructure and Singapore Power
International on 9 August 2007 and c_
accepted by the Commission on 13 
August 2007


Freehills
Operative part
Definitions
The meanings of the terms used in this document are set out below.
Term 
Meaning
2004 DBNGP 
the undertaking to the Commission given under section 87B of the Act
Undertaking 
by Alinta Limited (now Alinta 2000 Ply Ltd), Alinta Network Services Pty
Ltd (now Alinta Asset Management Pty Ltd), Alcoa of Australia Limited,
Alv7PC1 Macquarie Infrastructure Management No 1 Limited in its
capacity as the responsible entity of the Diversified Utility and Energy
Trust No 1, AMPCI Macquarie Infrastructure Management No 2 Limited
in its capacity as the responsible entity of the Diversified Utility and
Energy Trust No 2, and DBNGP Holdings Pty Limited dated 22 October
2004.
2007 DBNGP 
the undertaking to the Commission given under section 87B of the Act
Undertaking 
by BBI and BBP dated on or about 9 August 2007 under which BBI
conducts operation, construction and maintenance services with respect
to the DBNGP.
Act 
the Trade Practices Act 1974.
AGL 
the former The Australian Gas Light Company (ABN 95 052 167 405).
Agility 
means Agility Management Pty Limited (ACN 086 013 461) and, unless
otherwise required by the context, a reference to Agility in this
Undertaking is a reference to Agility and any of its subsidiaries.
Alinta Asset 
means Alinta Asset Management Pty Limited (ABN 52 104 352 650)
Management 
and, unless otherwise required by context, a reference to Alinta Asset
Management in this Undertaking is a reference to Alinta Asset
Management and any of its subsidiaries.
Agility-APT (MSP and means the contracts between Agility and APT under which Agility
Parmelia) Contracts 
provides asset management and network services in relation to the MSP
and the Parmelia Pipeline.
Agility-APT (MSP and
Parmalia) Contracts
Assets
means the:
a. 
assets;
page 2


Freehills
b.
employees; and
c.
material contracts and contractors,
which are required for, or who are directly involved in, the provision of
services to APT by Agility under the Agility-APT (MSP and Parmelia)
Contracts.
Alinta 
Alinta Limited (ABN 11 119 985 590) and, unless otherwise required by
the context, a reference to Alinta in this Undertaking is a reference to
Alinta and any of its related bodies corporate (other than APL and APT
(If applicable)).
Alinta Scheme Assets the assets and liabilities of Akita to be owned by Bidco, pursuant to
Bidco's acquisition of the shares in Alinta Limited, excluding the APA
Group Securities and API Shares.
APA Group Securities units in Australian Pipeline Trust (ARSN 091 678 778) stapled to units in
APT Investment Trust (ARSN 115 585 441) held by Alinta immediately
prior to the Scheme Implementation Date.
APL 
Australian Pipeline Limited (ACN 091 344 704) and, unless otherwise
required by the context, a reference to APL in this Undertaking is a
reference to APL and any of its related bodies corporate or, if APL is no
longer the responsible entity of APT (or a trust or other entity that owns
any of the APT Identified Assets), the replacement or successor
responsible entity of APT (or the replacement or successor responsible
entities of trusts or entities that have a Material Interest in any of the APT
Identified Assets).
APL Shares 
the shares in APL held by Alinta on the Scheme Implementation Date.
Approved Agent 
has the meaning given to it in clause 75.
Approved Purchaser 
has the meaning given to it in clause 63.
APT 
the Australian Pipeline Trust (ARSN 091 678 778) and, unless otherwise
required by context, a reference to APT in this Undertaking is a
reference to APT and any of its related bodies corporate.
APT Identified Assets
means:
a.
the Parmelia Pipeline;
b.
the MurrayLink interconnector;
c.
the DirectLink interconnector; and
d.
the MSP.
BB SPV 
BB SPV Space Cat Holdings Pty Ltd (ACN 124 512 376) of Level 23.
Chifley Tower, 2 Chlfley Square, Sydney NSW 2000.
page 3


Freehills
BB Purchaser 
an entity nominated by BB SPV on or before the Scheme
Implementation Date as a purchaser of an Alinta Scheme Asset.
BB/ 
Babcock & Brown Infrastructure, consisting of Babcock & Brown
trustee of the Babcock & Brown Infrastructure Trust (ARSN 100 376
Infrastructure Limited (ACN 100 364 234) and BBIS in its capacity as
479). Unless otherwise required by context, a reference to BBI in this
Undertaking is a reference to BBI and any subsidiary.
BBIS 
Babcock & Brown Investor Services Limited (ACN 099 717 638).
BBP 
Babcock & Brown Power, consisting of Babcock & Brown Power Limited
(ACN 116 665 608) and BBPS in its capacity as trustee of Babcock &
Brown Power Trust (ARSN 122 375 562).
BBPS 
Babcock & Brown Power Services Limited (ACN 118 165 156).
Bidco 
ES & L Pty Ltd (ACN 124 513 971) of Level 23, Chifley Tower, 2 Chifley
Square, Sydney NSW 2000.
Business Contact any communication, whether in writing, electronic, oral or otherwise
which concerns any business or professional matter relating to the
Parmelia Pipeline, the MurrayLink interconnector or the DirectLink
interconnector.
Business Day 
a day other than a Saturday, Sunday or a public holiday in Singapore,
New South Wales or Victoria.
Commission 
the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission.
Commencement Date the meaning given to it in clause 16.
DBNGP 
the Dampier to Bunbury Natural Gas Pipeline in Western Australia.
DBNGP Operating
Services Agreement
the operating services agreement under which DBNGP (WA)
Transmission Pty Ltd contracts a party, currently Alinta Asset
Management, to provide asset management and network services in
relation to the operation, construction and maintenance of the DBNGP.
Divestment Assets 
Means:
a.
the APA Group Securities held by Bidco and, if relevant, the APL
Shares held by Bidco (whether directly or through another entity),
including any rights or options to acquire APA Group Securities or
APL shares;
b.
the MSP Contract; and
page 4


Freehills
c. the Parmelia Contract.
Divestment Date 
the meaning given to it in Confidential Annexure 1.
EGP 
means the Eastern Gas Pipeline.
Hold Separate 
the date on which the last of the Divestment Assets and/or the Unsold
Termination Date 
Divestment Assets, as the case may be, is divested or terminated in
accordance with this Undertaking.
Independent Auditor 
RSM Bird Cameron or a successor independent auditor who has been
approved in writing by the Commission in accordance with clause 85, 87
or clause 88.
Independent Person 
a person who is independent of SPI and BBI. Without limitation, a
person who is not independent is a person who
a.
is a current employee or officer of SPI or BBI;
b.
has been an employee or officer of SPI or BBI in the past 5 years;
c.
has an agreement, arrangement or understanding with SPI or BBI
relating to the performance of his or her functions as a director of
APL;
d.
is a substantial shareholder of SPI or BBI or an officer of, or
otherwise associated directly with, a substantial shareholder of SPI
or BBI;
e.
has, within the last 5 years, been a principal of a material
professional adviser or a material consultant to SP! or BBI or an
employee materially associated with the provision of such services
to SPI or BBI;
f.
is a material supplier or customer of SPI or BB! or an officer of or
otherwise associated directly or indirectly with a material supplier
or customer of SPI or BBI;
g.
has a material contractual relationship with SPI or BSI;
h.
has served on the board of SPI or BBI for a period which could, or
could reasonably be perceived to, materially interfere with his or
her ability to act independently of SPI or BBI;
i.
has a relationship which could, or could reasonably be perceived
to, materially interfere with his or her ability to act independently of
SP! or BBI; or
). 
is a family member of a person who is not an independent person
(except by reason of this subclause).
Material Interest 
means:
a.
in relation to an entity, any interest, direct or indirect, in excess of
5%;
b.
in relation to an asset:
1)
any interest in the asset in excess of 5% of the value of the
asset; or
2)
an interest of more than 5% in any entity which has a
page 5


Freehills
substantial interest in the asset,
or,
c. 
in relation to an entity or an asset, any other interest, whether by
agreement, understanding or arrangement or otherwise, that gives
a degree of control over an asset or entity.
MSP 
means the Moomba to Sydney Pipeline, including:
a. all of the pipelines known as laterals which carry gas from:
1)
Young to Wagga Wagga;
2)
Bumt Creek to Griffith;
3)
Dalton to Canberra,
b. the interconnect from Wagga Wagga to Cu!calm (including the bi-
directional connection at Cu[calm); and
c. all assets, employees and equipment required to operate the MSP
independently (including any assets, contracts and agreements
associated with augmentations, expansions or connections to the
MSP),
but does not include the:
a.
Young to Lithgow Lateral; or
b.
Central West Pipeline.
MSP Contract 
means the contract between Agility and APT under which Agility
provides asset management and network services in relation to the
MSP.
Officer 
has the same meaning as in the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth).
Parmelia Contract 
means the contract between Agility and APT under which Agility
provides asset management and network services in relation to the
Parmelia Pipeline.
Parmelia Pipeline 
means the Parmelia pipeline in WA, including:
a. all the pipelines known as laterals which carry gas from the
Parmelia Pipeline namely:
1)
the Midland;
2)
Perth;
3)
Kwinana;
4)
and Rockingham Laterals,
b. all assets, employees and equipment required to operate the
Parmelia Pipeline independently (including any assets, contracts
and agreements associated with augmentations, expansions or
connections to the Parmelia Pipeline);
c. the Mondarra Gas Storage Facility; and
d. all assets, employees and equipment required to operate the
Mondarra Gas Storage Facility fully independently of the DBNGP.
page 6


Freehills
Proposed /Uinta 
the acquisition by Bidco of the shares in Alinta as contemplated in the
Acquisition 
SIA.
Proposed Approved 
has the meaning given to it in clause 64.
Purchaser
Related body corporate have the meanings given to them by the Corporations Act 2001.
and subsidiary
Scheme of 
the scheme of arrangement between Alinta and its members under
Arrangement 
which ail of the issued shares in Alinta will be acquired by Bidco.
Scheme 
the date on which Bidco acquires all of the shares in Alinta.
implementation Date
SIA 
the Scheme Implementation Agreement executed on 30 March 2007. as
amended.
SPI 
Singapore Power International Pte Ltd. Unless otherwise required by
context, a reference to SPI in this Undertaking is a reference to SPI and
any subsidiary.
SPI Purchaser 
an entity nominated by SPI on or before the Scheme Implementation
Date as a purchaser of an Alinta Scheme Asset.
Undertaking 
the undertakings provided by BBI or SPI in this document.
Unsold Divestment 
has the meaning given to it in clause 47.
Asset
page 7


Freehills
Background
Alinta/AGL merger
1 
On 1 June 2006, Alinta and AGL executed a merger implementation agreement
in relation to the merger of their infrastructure and energy businesses
(Alinta/AGL Merger).
2 
Alinta sought informal clearance of the Alinta/AGL Merger by the Commission.
3 
On 3 August 2006, the Commission accepted an undertaking offered by Alinta
which required Alinta, amongst other things, to:
(a)
divest all units Alinta holds in APT and all of the shares it holds in APL
by an agreed date;
(b)
divest the Agility-APT (MSP and Parmelia) Contracts by an agreed
date; and
(c)
hold separate and ring fence the assets to be divested.
4 
On accepting the Alinta/AGL Merger Undertaking, the Commission provided
informal clearance of the Alinta/AGL merger. The Alinta/AGL merger was
completed on 25 October 2006.
5 On 22 November 2006, the Commission accepted an undertaking (Alinta/APT
Undertaking) to replace the undertakings given by Alinta and accepted by the
Commission on 3 August 2006.
6 
The Alinta/APT Undertaking was intended to allow Alinta to increase its unit
holding in APT.
Acquisition of all Alinta shares
7 
On 30 March 2007, Alinta and Bidco, amongst others, executed the SIA in
relation to the Proposed Alinta Acquisition.
8 
By an agreement dated 23 March 2007, as amended, Bidco, SPI and BB SPV
agreed a mechanism by which the Alinta Scheme Assets and, if relevant, the
APA Group Securities and APL Shares, would be allocated between SPI and
BB SPV. It is the intention of the parties that the Alinta Scheme Assets will be
transferred to a SPI Purchaser or a BB Purchaser (or retained by Bidco, as
applicable) shortly after the Scheme Implementation Date.
9 
Under the SIA, Alinta has an obligation to use its best endeavours to distribute
the APA Group Securities to members of Alinta as a constituent part of
consideration paid to Alinta's members under the Scheme of Arrangement.
10 
If Alinta does not distribute the APA Group Securities to members of Alinta as a
constituent part of the Scheme of Arrangement, Bidco will hold the APA Group
Securities and APL Shares and deal with those securities in accordance with
the terms of this Undertaking. At this time, Bidco would be wholly owned by BBI.
11 
BBI and SPI have sought informal clearance of the Proposed Alinta Acquisition
by the Commission.
12 
BBI and SPI offer this Undertaking to the Commission to replace the Alinta/APT
Undertaking, without any admission that the Proposed Alinta Acquisition
implemented by the Scheme of Arrangement would contravene section 50 (or
any other provision) of the Act.
13 
The Commission is prepared to accept this Undertaking as it provides a
mechanism to address the Commission's competition concerns in the relevant
Page 8


Freehills
market or markets while facilitating the Proposed Alinta Acquisition. The
Commission acknowledges that this Undertaking is intended to effectively
replace the Alinta/APT Undertaking and fulfil a similar function. The
Commission will take this into account in considering any request by Alinta for
consent to withdraw the Alinta/APT Undertaking after the Scheme of
Arrangement is implemented.
14 
This undertaking seeks to address the Commission's competition concerns by:
(a)
ensuring that BBI divests any APA Group Securities or any APL
Shares that BBI may acquire by no later than the Divestment Date;
(b)
ensuring the Parmelia Contract is divested or terminated by the
Divestment Date;
(c)
ensuring the MSP Contract is divested or terminated by the
Divestment Date; and
(d)
ensuring that ring fencing arrangements for the assets referred to in
this clause are in place during any interim period between the Scheme
Implementation Date and the Divestment Date.
15 
If the parties have not divested the Parmelia Contract or the MSP Contract by
the Divestment Date, then these assets will be handed over to an Independent
Agent, to be divested or otherwise dealt with in accordance with this
Undertaking.
page 9


_ Freehills 
Commencement and termination of Undertakings
Commencement of Undertakings
16 
This Undertaking comes into effect when the following conditions are satisfied:
(a)
this Undertaking is executed by BBI and SPI;
(b)
the Commission accepts this Undertaking; and
(c)
the Scheme of Arrangement is implemented.
(Commencement Date).
17 For the avoidance of doubt, each party to this Undertaking is only responsible
for the obligations given by it, and, notwithstanding that the undertakings are
contained in a single document, it constitutes separate undertakings given by
SPI and BBI and:
(a)
SPI may seek to withdraw or vary its undertakings without the consent
of BBI; and
(b)
BBI may seek to withdraw or vary its undertakings without the consent
of SPI.
Termination Date
18 
Unless otherwise expressed, the obligations in this Undertaking will cease on
the Hold Separate Termination Date.
page 10


Freehills
Part A - Divestiture of APL Shares
19 
Part A of this Undertaking will apply only in the event that:
(a)
Alinta distributes the APA Group Securities to Alinta shareholders as a
constituent part of the Scheme of Arrangement; and
(b)
BBI holds the APL Shares and these shares do not constitute a
Material Interest in APL.
Divestiture
20 
BB1 will divest the APL Shares by the Divestment Date.
21 
If BBI retains a direct or indirect interest in the APL Shares on the Divestment
Date, BBI must sell or divest all the APL Shares within 10 Business Days of the
Divestment Date.
page 11


Freehills
Part B — Divestiture of APA Group Securities
22 
Part B of this Undertaking will apply only in the event that:
(a) 
Alinta does not distribute all the APA Group Securities to Alinta
shareholders as a constituent part of the Scheme of Arrangement;
and / or
(5) 
BBI holds the APL Shares and these shares constitute a Material
Interest in APL.
23 
Part B of this Undertaking shall not apply to any APA Group Securities acquired
by BB! in its capacity as an Alinta shareholder under the Scheme of
Arrangement.
Obligations which operate while BBI holds an interest in APT
Divestiture
24 
BBI will divest the APA Group Securities and the APL Shares by the Divestment
Date.
25 
If BBI retains a direct or indirect interest in APA Group Securities or the APL
Shares on the Divestment Date (subject to clause 23), BM must sell all its APA
Group Securities on the market, and sell or divest all the APL Shares, within 10
Business Days of the Divestment Date.
26 
BSI will not hold or acquire a Material Interest (unless otherwise permitted by
the Commission) in APT for a period of 6 years after the Hold Separate
Termination Date.
Ring Fencing obligations concerning APT
27 
BBI will not as a unit holder in APT, a shareholder in APL, or in any other
capacity, or through any other person
(a)
nominate or vote in favour of any person to fill a vacancy on the board
of APL;
(b)
vote in any meeting of unit holders called for the purpose of approving
the nomination of a person to be appointed to the board of APL;
(c)
vote in any postal ballot undertaken for the purpose of approving the
nomination of a person to be appointed to the board of APL;
(d)
vote in any meeting for the purpose of appointing or removing any
director of APL; or
(e)
instruct anyone else to appoint, nominate or vote in any meeting of
members of the board of APL for the purpose of appointing or
removing any director of APL.
28 
Notwithstanding clause 27, BBI will use its best endeavours (including
proposing and voting on motions as unit holder and shareholder) to procure that
no person is appointed to the board of APL or continues to act as a director of
APL unless they are an Independent Person.
29 
BBI will not, without the formal written approval of the Commission:
(a)
propose;
(b)
vote on; or
(c)
act in any way to influence a resolution to,
page 12


Freehills
remove, change the structure of, or replace the responsible entity of APT, or
otherwise seek to make changes to the corporate structure of APL or APT.
30 
Regardless of any other provision of this Undertaking, conduct formally
approved by the Commission in writing pursuant to clause 29 will not constitute
a breach of this Undertaking.
Additional ring fencing
31 
Subject to clauses 30 and 32:
(a) 
BBI will not:
(1)
interfere in the management or operation of APT;
(2)
do anything to prevent APT or APL from continuing to
operate independently of BBI;
(3)
do anything to prevent APT or APL from continuing to
market, price and sell gas transportation or other services
and to maintain its contracts and agreements for doing so;
or
(4)
seek any confidential information from APT,
and
(b) BBI will ensure that employees, officers, advisers and contractors of
BBI will not have any Business Contact with any person employed or
retained by APT or API.
32 
Clause 31 does not prevent the conduct set out in Annexure 2.
33 
If, notwithstanding the restrictions set out in this undertaking, BBI as a unit
holder in APT or a shareholder in APL holds or obtains any confidential
information that relates to the Parmelia Pipeline, BBI will ensure this confidential
information is not disclosed to any persons who perform functions relating to the
management or operation of the DBNGP, without prior written approval by the
Commission.
34 
BBI will inform the Commission within 5 Business Days of this Undertaking
taking effect of any persons within BB! or its advisers who hold or have obtained
any information referred to in clause 33 and the manner in, and terms on, which
those persons have been prohibited from communicating that information to
persons who perform functions relating to the management or operation of the
DBNGP.
35 
If BBI becomes aware of a breach of clause 33, it must immediately advise the
Commission and the Independent Auditor of:
(c) 
the identity of al/ persons involved in the breach;
(d) 
full particulars of the breach, including the role of the persons involved
and the nature of the information or documents disclosed; and
(e) 
an explanation of how the breach occurred.
36 BBI will ensure that any confidential information it obtains as a unit holder in
APT or a shareholder in APL that relates to the MSP is not disclosed to SPI,
without prior written approval by the Commission.
37 
BBI will ensure that any confidential information it obtains as a unit holder in
APT or a shareholder in APL that relates to either the MurrayLink interconnector
or the DirectLink interconnector is not disclosed to BBP, without prior written
approval by the Commission.
page 13


Freehills
Part C — Obligations which operate after the Hold Separate
Termination Date and divestiture of pipeline asset management
contracts
Restrictions on BBI appointments and employment
38 
BBI will not:
(a)
from the Commencement Date, and for a period of 3 years after the
Hold Separate Termination Date, appoint as director of the board of
BBI any officer or other employee of APL or APT;
(b)
from the Commencement Date, and for a period of 3 years after the
Hold Separate Termination Date, employ in any role relating to the
operation or management of the DBNGP a person who was, within
the last three years, a senior executive of APL or APT and had any
involvement in the marketing or commercial operations of the
Parmelia Pipeline;
(c)
from the Commencement Date, and for a period of 1 year after the
Hold Separate Termination Date, employ in any role relating to the
operation or management of the DBNGP a person who has been,
within the last year, an employee of APL or APT and had any
involvement in the marketing or commercial operations of the
Perm&la Pipeline, unless otherwise permitted by the Commission;
(d)
for a period of 5 years after the Commencement Date employ in any
role relating to the operation or management of the DBNGP, or have
an agreement, understanding or arrangement (including an
agreement, understanding or arrangement that comes into effect in
the future) in relation to the provision of services for the operation,
construction, maintenance or management of the DBNGP with, a
person who was, within the last 5 years, a director of APL;
(e)
from the Commencement Date, and for a period of 2 years after the
Hold Separate Termination Date, seek or receive any advisory
services for the operation, construction, maintenance or management
of the DBNGP from a person who was a director of APL at any time
between the Commencement Date and the Hold Separate
Termination Date; or
(1) 
from the Commencement Date and for a period of 1 year after the
Hold Separate Termination Date, seek or receive any advisory
services for the operation or management of the DBNGP from a
person who was employed by APL or APT and had any involvement
in the marketing or commercial operations of the Parmelia Pipeline
unless otherwise permitted by the Commission.
No Common Management of Pipelines
39 
BBI will, for a period of 5 years from the Hold Separate Termination Date, not
supply or offer to supply pipeline management or maintenance services (of any
kind) to the Parmelia Pipeline while BBI supplies management or maintenance
services (of any kind) to the DBNGP or has any Material Interest in the DBNGP.
Restrictions on SPI appointments and employment
40 
SPI will not:
page 14


Freehills
(a)
from the Commencement Date, and for a period of 3 years after the
Hold Separate Termination Date, appoint as director of the Board of
SPI any officer or other employee of APL or APT;
(b)
from the Commencement Date, and for a period of 3 years after the
Hold Separate Termination Date, employ in any role relating to the
operation or management of the EGP a person who was, within the
last three years, a senior executive of APL. or APT and had any
involvement in the marketing or commercial operations of the MSP;
(C) 
from the Commencement Date, and for a period of 1 year after the
Hold Separate Termination Date, employ In any role relating to the
operation or management of the EGP a person who has been, within
the last year, an employee of APL or APT and had any involvement in
the marketing or commercial operations of the MSP, unless otherwise
permitted by the Commission;
(d)
for a period of 5 years after the Commencement Date employ in any
role relating to the operation or management of the EGP, or have an
agreement, understanding or arrangement (including an agreement,
understanding or arrangement that comes into effect in the future) in
relation to the provision of services for the operation or management
of the EGP with, a person who was, within the last 5 years, a director
of APL;
(e)
from the Commencement Date, and for a period of 2 years after the
Hold Separate Termination Date, seek or receive any advisory
services for the operation or management of the EGP from a person
who was a director of APL at any time between the Commencement
Date and the Hold Separate Termination Date; or
(f)
from the Commencement Date and for a period of 1 year after the
Hold Separate Termination Date, seek or receive any advisory
services for the operation or management of the EGP from a person
who was employed by APL or APT and had any involvement in the
marketing or commercial operations of the MSP unless otherwise
permitted by the Commission.
No Common Management of Pipelines
41 SPI will, for a period of 5 years from the Hold Separate Termination Date, not
supply or offer to supply pipeline management or maintenance services (of any
kind) to the MSP while SPl supplies management or maintenance services (of
any kind) to the EGP or has any material interest in the EGP.
Ring fencing of MSP and Parmelia
42 The entity that controls the Agility-APT (MSP and Parmelia) Contracts after the
Scheme Implementation Date, (being either BB1 and/or SPI, as the case may
be) will ensure that the ring fencing arrangements presently applied in relation
to the Agility-APT (MSP and Parmelia) Contracts, details of which are set out in
Annexure 3, continue to be applied until the obligations set out in clauses 43 to
47 below are satisfied.
Divestiture of the MSP Contract
43 
The entity which controls the MSP Contract (being either BB1 or SPI, as the
case may be) undertakes to:
(a)
divest to an Approved Purchaser; or
(b)
legally terminate;
the MSP Contract, by the Divestment Date.
44 
If:
page 15


Freehills 
(a)
a consent or approval is required for the divestiture by SP1 or BB! (as
the case may be) of the MSP Contract to a person identified by SPI or
BBI (as the case may be);
(b)
SPI or BBI (as the case may be) has used all reasonable endeavours
to procure that consent or approval; and
(c)
that consent or approval has not been given to SPI or BBL (as the
case may be) within 20 Business Days of seeking it,
SPI or BBI (as the case may be) may, upon obtaining consent in writing of the
Commission to do so, enter into an arrangement to subcontract the MSP
Contract in the same terms as the MSP Contract to the person (or otherwise
enter into an arrangement with the person to provide all the services under the
MSP Contract), provided the person would otherwise have been an Approved
Purchaser of the MSP Contract, and having done so, SPI or BBI (as the case
may be) will be regarded as having divested the MSP Contract pursuant to
clause 43 above.
Divestiture of the Parmella Contract
45 
The entity which controls the Parmelia Contract (being either BBI or SPI, as the
case may be) undertakes to:
(a)
divest to an Approved Purchaser; or
(b)
legally terminate;
the Parmelia Contract by the Divestment Date.
46 
If:
(a)
a consent or approval is required for the divestiture by SPI or BBI (as
the case may be) of the Parmelia Contract to a person identified by
SPI or BBI (as the case may be);
(b)
SPI or BBI (as the case may be) has used all reasonable endeavours
to procure that consent or approval; and
(c)
that consent or approval has not been given to SPI or BBI (as the
case may be) within 20 Business Days of seeking it,
SP! or BBI (as the case may be) may, upon obtaining consent in writing of the
Commission to do so, enter into an arrangement to subcontract the Parmelia
Contract in the same terms as the Parmella Contract to the person (or otherwise
enter into an arrangement with the person to provide all the services under the
Parmelia Contract, provided the person would otherwise have been an Approved
Purchaser of the Parmelia Contract, and having done so, SPI or BBI (as the
case may be) will be regarded as having divested the Parmelia Contract
pursuant to clause 45 above.
Unsold assets
47 
If the MSP Contract or the Parmelia Contract has not been divested by SPI or
BBI by the Divestment Date pursuant to clauses 43 and 45 above, it becomes
an unsold divestment asset (Unsold Divestment Asset) and the provisions
(clauses 71 to 82) relating to Sale by Approved Agent apply.
DBNGP Operating Services Agreement
48 
SPI and B131 will each take all steps necessary to ensure that the management
and performance of the DBNGP Operating Services Agreement is:
(a)
subject to sub-clause 48(b)(ii) below, at all times prior to the
Divestment Date, controlled or managed by an entity subject to the
2004 DBNGP Undertaking or the 2007 DBNGP Undertaking; and
(b)
by the Divestment Date, controlled or managed by:
page 16


(i)
BBI (including through its ownership of AAM or a BBI
subsidiary); or
(ii)
a person approved in writing by the Commission.
page 17


Freehills 
Shipper Protection
49 
The obligations in clauses 60 to 60 continue to operate for a period of 6 years
after the Hold Separate Termination Date.
50 
If the Commission makes a decision that it is satisfied that there was, at any
time between the Commencement Date and the Hold Separate Termination
Date, a breach by either Bal or SP1 (referred to as the relevant party in clauses
50 to 60) of this Undertaking which caused loss or damage to a shipper on the
DBNGP, Parmelia Pipeline, EGP, MSP or any other relevant asset owned by
APT the Commission will notify the relevant party of that decision and the
relevant party will not challenge that decision.
51 
Upon notification of a decision by the Commission pursuant to clause 50, the
relevant party will indemnify each shipper identified in the Commission's
decision for any loss or damage to the shipper arising from that breach by the
relevant party of this Undertaking and the relevant party will give notice of the
Indemnity to shippers as relevant.
52 
Upon receipt of a claim by a shipper in whose favour an indemnity has been
given, the relevant party will compensate the shipper for any such loss or
damage, in the amount:
(a)
agreed between the relevant party and the shipper; or
(b)
determined by the Independent Arbitrator.
53 
The provision by the relevant party of the indemnity pursuant to this
Undertaking does not derogate from any legal rights which a shipper might
otherwise have against the relevant party or any other person.
54 
The relevant party will comply with the Independent Arbitrator provisions set out
in clauses 55 to 60 below.
Independent Arbitrator
55 
In the event that the Commission makes a decision under clause 50, the
relevant party will within 10 Business Days nominate for approval by the
Commission a person to undertake the role of Independent arbitrator
(Independent Arbitrator) to determine shipper compensation under clause 52.
56 
The relevant party will promptly provide such information as is requested by the
Commission to enable the Commission to make a decision in relation to the
approval of the Independent Arbitrator.
57 
The Commission will approve the appointment of a person nominated by the
relevant party to undertake the role of Independent Arbitrator where that person,
in the Commission's opinion, is:
(a)
an Independent Person;
(b)
suitably qualified and experienced in arbitrating legal disputes; and
(c)
independent of the purchaser of any asset divested pursuant to this
Undertaking.
58 
If the Commission does not approve the person nominated by the relevant party
to be the Independent Arbitrator, the relevant party will appoint a person
identified by the Commission in its absolute discretion as the Independent
Arbitrator.
59 
The relevant party will meet all the costs and expenses incurred by the
Independent Arbitrator in carrying out his or her functions, Including costs the
page 18


Freehills
Independent Arbitrator may incur in obtaining assistance (professional or
otherwise) to carry out his or her function. However, the indemnity given under
clause 51 may provide that where the Independent Arbitrator determines that a
shipper is not entitled to any compensation more favourable to the shipper than
that offered to the shipper by the relevant party prior to that determination being
made, the relevant party may reduce any amount payable pursuant to the
indemnity by the costs and expenses of the Independent Arbitrator incurred in
making that determination in respect of the matter up to a maximum of $3000.
60 The relevant party will, if required to do so by the Independent Arbitrator,
indemnify the Independent Arbitrator in terms sought by the Independent
Arbitrator.
page 19


Freehills
Divestment of assets / contracts
Approved Purchaser
61 
Subject to clause 70, BB! or SPI, as the case may be, will not sell, transfer,
novate, assign or otherwise dispose of the Divestment Assets to any person
who is not an Approved Purchaser.
62 
The Approved Purchaser process described below will not apply in relation to
the MSP Contract or the Parmelia Contract if these contracts are legally
terminated by the Divestment Date.
63 
An approved purchaser (Approved Purchaser) is a prospective purchaser of
the Divestment Assets that:
(a)
is an Independent Person, or is a corporation independent of and has
no direct or controlling interest in BBI or SPI, as the case may be;
(b)
in the case of the MSP Contract and/or the Parmelia Contract, is of
good financial standing and is capable of providing services pursuant
to the relevant Divestment Asset effectively; and
(c)
has not been objected to by the Commission within the objection
period specified in clause 66.
64 
Within 5 Business Days of BBI or SP! reaching a conditional sale agreement
with a prospective purchaser for the Divestment Assets (Proposed Approved
Purchaser), BB! or SPI, as the case may be, will provide the Commission with
the following information and such other information that the Commission
requires to assess whether the purchase of the Divestment Assets by the
Proposed Approved Purchaser satisfies the criteria in clause 63:
(a)
the name, address and all available contact details of the Proposed
Approved Purchaser;
(b)
a copy of a signed conditional sale agreement with the Proposed
Approved Purchaser;
(c)
a description of the business carried on in Australia by the Proposed
Approved Purchaser; and
(d)
the names of the ultimate holding company and directors of the
Proposed Approved Purchaser.
65 
BBI or SPI will notify the Commission of an intended Proposed Approved
Purchaser without delay.
66 
If, within 20 Business Days of receipt of the information from BBI or SP! referred
to in clause 64 (or such further period as BB! or SPI and the Commission may
agree), the Commission does not object to the Proposed Approved Purchaser,
the Proposed Approved Purchaser becomes an Approved Purchaser for the
purposes of this Undertaking.
67 
The Commission may object to the Proposed Approved Purchaser on the basis
the Commission has formed the view, in its absolute discretion, that a sale to
the Proposed Approved Purchaser is likely to result in a substantial lessening of
competition in a market and BBI or SPI, as the case may be, will not contest the
Commission's view.
68 
In the event that the Commission objects to a Proposed Approved Purchaser it
will, on a confidential basis, provide BB! or SPI, as the case may be, with a
written statement of its reasons including the material facts It relies on for its
view.
page 20


Frethills
69 
In the event that the Commission objects to a Proposed Approved Purchaser,
BBI or SPI, as the case may be, may identify to the Commission an alternative
Proposed Approved Purchaser in accordance with clauses 63 and 64 for
consideration by the Commission in accordance with clauses 66 and 67.
70 
BBI may sell APA Group Securities without having to comply with clauses 60 to
69 (Approved Purchaser obligations) if:
(a)
BBI sells APA Group Securities on the ASX or pursuant to a book-
build or other public offering; and
(b)
the terms of, and the context of, the sale pursuant to clause 70(a)
above explicitly prevent any acquirer of APA Group Securities
pursuant to that sale acquiring, or then holding a Material Interest in,
APT unless otherwise approved by the Commission in writing.
Sale by Approved Agent
71 
SPI or BBI, (depending on which is the owner or controller of the Unsold
Divestment Asset) (referred to as the Vendor in clauses 72 to 82 below), must,
within 10 Business Days of an asset becoming an Unsold Divestment Asset,
identify a person as a prospective sales agent for that Unsold Divestment Asset
(Proposed Agent).
72 
The Proposed Agent must be a person who is independent of the Vendor and
has the qualifications and experience necessary to effect the sale of the Unsold
Divestment Asset.
73 
The Vendor will advise the Commission in writing, within 5 Business Days of the
Vendor selecting a Proposed Agent, of the identity of the Proposed Agent, the
proposed terms of appointment, together with such information that the
Commission requires to assess whether the Proposed Agent satisfies the
criteria set out in clause 72.
74 If, within 5 Business Days of receipt of the information from the Vendor referred
to in clause 73 (or such further period as the Commission and the Vendor may
agree):
(a)
the Commission does not object to the Proposed Agent, or the terms
of appointment, the Vendor will appoint the Proposed Agent as soon
as practicable thereafter and forward to the Commission a copy of the
executed terms of appointment of the Proposed Agent; or
(b)
the Commission does object to the Proposed Agent, or the terms of
appointment, the Vendor will appoint a person nominated by the
Commission as the Proposed Agent on terms specified by the
Commission and the Vendor will appoint the nominee to carry out the
functions contemplated pursuant to clauses 75 to 78.
75 
Within 5 Business Days of the appointment of the Proposed Agent referred to in
clause 71 (Approved Agent), the Vendor must procure and/or grant the
Approved Agent all necessary power and authority to divest, self, transfer or
sub-contract the Unsold Divestment Assets in the manner and on the terms
(including as to price) considered appropriate by the Approved Agent, in its sole
discretion, to ensure, or to ensure so far as practicable, compliance with this
Undertaking.
76 
The terms of the Approved Agent's appointment must require the Approved
Agent to have completed the sale of the Unsold Divestment Assets within 60
Business Days of appointment.
77 
The obligation to divest, sell, transfer or sub-contract referred to in clause 75
(and the terms of the Approved Agent's appointment in clause 74 and 76) may
be subject to a condition that if more than one Approved Purchaser makes an
offer for the Unsold Divestment Asset, the Approved Agent must accept the
page 21


Freehills
offer or offers that would maximise the total price paid for the Unsold
Divestment Asset.
78 
Within 5 Business Days after the appointment of the Approved Agent, the
Vendor will procure, execute and provide an unconditional (except as permitted
under sub-clause 78(b)) and irrevocable power of attorney in favour of the
Approved Agent that:
(a)
grants the Approved Agent all rights and powers necessary to permit
the Approved Agent to effect the divestiture of the Unsold Divestment
Asset, subject only to the condition that the Unsold Divestment Asset
may not be divested to any person who Is not an Approved Purchaser;
and
(b)
unconditionally (save for fraud) indemnifies the Approved Agent
against loss and damage incurred by the Approved Agent, arising
directly or indirectly from the Approved Agent exercising or attempting
to exercise the powers and rights conferred upon it under the power of
attorney.
79 
The Vendor will provide the Approved Agent with:
(a)
all relevant information available to the Vendor; and
(b)
all reasonable assistance,
to enable the Approved Agent to divest, sell and transfer the Unsold Divestment
Asset as quickly as possible.
80 
If:
(a)
a consent or approval is required for the divestiture by the Approved
Agent of a Unsold Divestment Asset to a person;
(b)
the Approved Agent or the Vendor has used all reasonable
endeavours to procure that consent or approval; and
(c)
that consent or approval has not been given to the Approved Agent or
the Vendor within 20 Business Days of seeking it,
the Approved Agent may, upon obtaining consent in writing of the Commission
to do so, make arrangements to subcontract the Unsold Divestment Asset on
the same terms as the Unsold Divestment Asset to a person (or otherwise enter
into an arrangement with the person to provide all the services under the
Unsold Divestment Asset), provided that person would otherwise have been an
Approved Purchaser of the Unsold Divestment Asset, and having done so, the
obligations relating to Sale by Approved Agent will have been satisfied.
81 
The Vendor will promptly pay the costs of the Approved Agent in the
performance of his or her functions.
82 
The Vendor has the right to defend any legal claims, investigations or
enforcement actions threatened or brought in respect of any Unsold Divestment
Asset and to access such books, records, information and staff assistance as is
reasonably necessary for this purpose.
page 22


Freehills
Independent Audit
83 
BBI and SPI will jointly maintain the appointment of an Independent Auditor until
the termination of each of the obligations In this Undertaking.
84 
BB! and SPI will use best endeavours to maintain the appointment of RSM Bird
Cameron as Independent Auditor.
85 
If the appointment of RSM Bird Cameron as the Independent Auditor is
maintained, BBI and SP! will, within 5 Business Days of the Commencement
Date, procure that RSM Bird Cameron prepares the audit reports referred to in
clause 89.
86 
If the appointment of RSM Bird Cameron as the Independent Auditor cannot be
maintained, BBI and SRI must, within 10 Business Days of the Commencement
Date, notify the Commission, in writing, of the name and contact details of
another proposed Independent Auditor, including evidence that the Proposed
Independent Auditor is an Independent Person with the relevant expertise to
perform the role of Independent Auditor, and provide the proposed terms of
engagement (Proposed Independent Auditor).
87 
If within 15 Business Days of receipt by the Commission of the information
referred to in clause 86, the Commission does not object to the Proposed
Independent Auditor, or the proposed terms of engagement, BBI and SRI will
jointly appoint the Proposed Independent Auditor within 5 Business Days.
88 
If within 15 Business Days of receipt by the Commission of the information
referred to in clause 86, or such further period as is required by the Commission
and notified to BBI and SPI in writing prior to the expiration of the 15 Business
Day period, the Commission objects to the Proposed Independent Auditor, BBI
and SPI must, within 5 Business Days of the Commission nominating an
alternative Independent Auditor, appoint the alternative Independent Auditor
nominated by the Commission on terms acceptable to the Commission.
89 
The terms of engagement agreed to by BBI and SRI under clauses 83, 87 and
88 must require the Independent Auditor to:
(a) 
prepare and supply an audit report to the General Manager of the
Mergers and Asset Sales Branch of the Commission:
i.
every 3 months from the Commencement Date to the Hold
Separate Termination Date; and
ii. thereafter, within 30 Business Days after each anniversary
of the Hold Separate Termination Date.
(b) 
report, pursuant to clause 89(a), on (without limitation):
BBI's and SPI's compliance with this Undertaking;
ii. full reasons for the conclusions reached in the audit,
including references to the supporting evidence;
iii. any qualifications made by the Independent Auditor in
forming its views; and
iv.
any recommendations by the independent Auditor to
improve the integrity of the audit process and the
elimination of any qualifications, including, without
limitation, any reasonable recommendations to improve
BBI's or SPI's processes or reporting systems.
page 23


Freehills
(c) 
notify the Commission of any likely failure by BBI or SPI to comply
with the obligations in this undertaking within 5 Business Days of the
independent Auditor forming the view that a likely failure to comply
has occurred or will occur.
90 
Unless otherwise agreed to by the Commission, BB! and SPI will not appoint
the independent Auditor, or have any agreements, understandings or
arrangements with the Independent Auditor, to utilise the Independent Auditor's
services for anything other than compliance with this Undertaking as required
by this Undertaking.
91 
BBI and SRI will cancel the appointment of the Independent Auditor if the
Commission, in its discretion, informs BBI and SPI of its view that the
Independent Auditor is no longer an Independent Person or does not have
relevant experience and skills to act as the Independent Auditor or if the
Commission advises BBI and SPI in writing that it has formed the view that the
Independent Auditor is not properly performing his or her functions.
92 
In the event that the appointment of the Independent Auditor is cancelled
pursuant to clause 91, BBI and SPI must, within 5 Business Days of the
Commission nominating an alternative Independent Auditor, appoint an
Independent Auditor nominated by the Commission on terms acceptable to the
Commission.
93 
if an Independent Auditor resigns or otherwise terminates its appointment, BB!
and SPI must submit the name and contact details and all other information
required by clause 86 in relation to its choice of a successor Independent
Auditor to the Commission for approval within 20 Business Days of the
resignation or termination. Clauses 87 and 88 then apply as if the successor
Independent Auditor were the Proposed Independent Auditor.
94 
In the event that the Commission does not approve the Proposed Independent
Auditor referred to in clause 93, or the terms of engagement, BBI and SPI must
within 5 Business Days of the Commission nominating an alternative
Independent Auditor, appoint an Independent Auditor nominated by the
Commission on terms acceptable to the Commission.
95 BBI and SPI will ensure the Independent Auditor complies with any reasonable
request made by the Commission to the independent Auditor in relation to the
audit referred to in clause 89. The nature and content of any request made by
the Commission to the Independent Auditor will also be communicated to both
BBI and SPI.
96 
BBI and SPI acknowledge that the Commission and Independent Auditor may
communicate directly in relation to the audit referred to in clause 89.
97 
BBI and SPI wilt implement any recommendations of the Independent Auditor
made pursuant to clause 89(b)(iv) within 5 Business Days after receiving the
Independent Auditor's audit report.
98 
If BBI or SPI reasonably believes that the implementation required by clause 97
is likely to take more than 5 Business Days, it must notify the Commission as
soon as practicable in writing, stating:
(a)
the reasons why it believes the implementation will take more than 5
Business Days, including supporting evidence;
(b)
the steps it is taking to implement the recommendations; and
(c)
an estimate of the date by which the recommendations will be fully
implemented.
99 
BBI and SPI will furnish the Commission with a report detailing the progress of
implementing the Independent Auditor's recommendations every 5 Business
Days until they are fully implemented.
page 24


Freehills
100 
BBI and SP! will cooperate fully with the Independent Auditor and shall ensure
that the audits are able to be conducted by the Independent Auditor on the
basis of any relevant information in BSI's or SPI's control. To the fullest extent
possible, BBI and SPI will ensure the Independent Auditor is given access to all
relevant information, including, without limitation:
(a)
access to officers, employees, representatives and agents of BBI or
SPI for any relevant purpose, including to find out how this
Undertaking is to be implemented and understood, and BBI or SPI will
direct those officers, employees or representatives to answer the
Independent Auditor's questions honestly and comprehensively;
(b)
access to (to the extent it is within BBI's or SPI's control) information
about customers, and the customers themselves, in order to obtain
information about customers' experience of BBI or SPI and its
services and compliance with this Undertaking; and
(c)
access to all the records of BB! or SPI, in whatever form, relevant to
the Independent Auditor's inquiries whether specifically requested or
not.
101 
BBI and SPI will authorise the Independent Auditor to engage any technical
expertise or other assistance as the independent Auditor reasonably requires to
conduct the audits and BBI and SPI will meet any and all costs of the
Independent Auditor.
102 
Whatever the processes used to appoint an Independent Auditor, the fees and
expenses incurred by the Independent Auditor in carrying out his or her
functions under this Undertaking will be payable by BBI and SPI.
103 
BBI and SPI give the Commission permission to use all information which is:
(a)
in the Commission's possession; or
(b)
requested by the Commission from BBI or SPI,
and which is not confidential or otherwise commercially sensitive to BBI or SPI
to inform the public (including shippers) of BSI's and SPI's obligations and the
role of the independent Auditor under this Undertaking.
104 
BBI and SPI will, within 15 business days of the commencement of this
Undertaking, provide a report to the Commission detailing the efforts that BBI
and SPI have made toward compliance with this Undertaking.
page 25


Freehills 
General
Obligations to procure
105 
Where the performance of an obligation under this Undertaking is imposed on
BBI, if complete performance of the relevant obligation requires a subsidiary of
BBI to take some action or refrain from taking some action, BBI will procure that
subsidiary to take that action or refrain from taking that action and, if necessary,
will procure the offering of undertakings on identical terms to this Undertaking
by the subsidiary to the Commission.
106 
Where the performance of an obligation under this Undertaking is imposed on
SPI, if complete performance of the relevant obligation requires a subsidiary of
SPI to take some action or refrain from taking some action, SPI will procure that
subsidiary to take that action or refrain from taking that action and, if necessary,
will procure the offering of undertakings on identical terms to this Undertaking
by the subsidiary to the Commission.
Interpretation
107 
In the interpretation of a clause of this Undertaking, a construction that would
promote the purpose or object underlying this Undertaking (whether that
purpose or object is expressly stated in this Undertaking or not) shall be
preferred to a construction that would not promote that purpose or object.
108 
In the interpretation of this Undertaking, material not forming part of this
Undertaking may be considered to:
(a)
confirm the meaning of a clause is the ordinary meaning conveyed by
the text of the clause taking into account its context in this
Undertaking and the competition concerns intended to be addressed
by this Undertaking and the clause in question; or
(b)
determine the meaning of the clause when the ordinary meaning
conveyed by the text of the clause taking into account its context in
this Undertaking and the purpose or object underlying this
Undertaking leads to a result that does not promote the purpose or
object underlying this Undertaking.
109 
In determining whether consideration should be given to any material in
accordance with clause 108, or in considering any weight to be given to any
such material, regard shall be had, in addition to any other relevant matters, to
the:
(a)
effect that reliance on the ordinary meaning conveyed by the text of
the clause would have (taking into account its context in this
Undertaking and whether that meaning promotes the purpose or
object of this Undertaking); and
(b)
need to ensure that the result of this Undertaking is to address the
Commission's competition concems.
110 
in performing its obligations under this Undertaking, each of BB/ and SPI will do
everything reasonably within its power to ensure that its performance of those
obligations is done in a manner which is consistent with promoting the purpose
and object of this Undertaking.
Further information
111 
If requested in writing by the Commission, BBI or SPI will provide the
Commission with copies of any executed agreement in connection with the sale
page 26


Freehills
of Divestment Assets and/or Unsold Divestment Assets, as the case may be,
within 5 Business Days.
112 
At the Commission's direction, BBI or SPI will itself and BBI or SP1 will procure
that any BBI or SPI director, employee, agent or contractor identified by the
Commission will:
(a)
furnish information to the Commission;
(b)
produce documents to the Commission in relation to which BBI or SPI
has custody, control or power; and/or
(c)
attend the Commission at a time and place appointed by the
Commission to answer any questions the Commission (its
Commissioner, its staff or its agents) may have,
in relation to BBI's or SPI's compliance with this Undertaking.
113 
BBI and SP! will comply with such direction by the Commission within 5
Business Days or such other period of time as may be agreed by the
Commission.
114 
Information furnished, documents produced or information given in answer to
questions may be used by the Commission for any purpose consistent with its
statutory functions.
115 
Any direction made by the Commission under clause 112 will be notified to the
company secretary of BB! or SPI, as the case may be.
Confidentiality
116 
Confidential Annexure 1 will remain confidential until the Hold Separate
Termination Date.
117 
BBI and SPI acknowledge that the Commission will make this Undertaking
available for public inspection, save for those parts of this Undertaking which
are to remain confidential, as provided for in this Undertaking or as otherwise
agreed between BBI, SPI and the Commission.
Authorisation
118 
The Commission may authorise the Mergers Review Committee, a member of
the Commission or a member of the Commission staff, to exercise a decision
making function under this Undertaking on its behalf and that authorisation may
be subject to any conditions which the Commission may impose.
Service of notices
119 
Any notice or other communication to the Commission pursuant to this
Undertaking must be sent to:
General Manager, Mergers & Asset Sales
Australian Competition & Consumer Commission
470 Northboume Avenue
Dickson ACT 2602
or in whatever manner the Commission subsequently notifies BBI
120 
Any notice or other communication from the Commission to SPI pursuant to this
Undertaking must be sent to:
The Company Secretary
Singapore Power International Pte Ltd
111 Sommerset Road #04-01
Singapore Power Building
Singapore 238164
page 27


Freehilis
121 
Any notice or other communication from the Commission to BBI pursuant to this
Undertaking must be sent to:
The Company Secretary
Babcock & Brown Infrastructure
Level 23 The Chifley Tower
2 Chifley Square
Sydney NSW 2000
Limitation of liability
122 
Limitation of liability of BBIS:
(a)
BBIS enters into this Undertaking only in its capacity as trustee of the
Babcock & Brown Infrastructure Trust (BBIT) and in no other capacity;
(b)
a monetary liability arising under or in connection with this
Undertaking can be enforced against BBIS only to the extent to which
BBIS can be satisfied out of property of BBIT out of which BBIS is
actually indemnified for the liability;
(c)
the limitation of BBIS's monetary liability referred to in clause 122(b)
applies despite any other provision of this Undertaking and extends to
all monetary liabilities and obligations of BBIS in its capacity as trustee
of BBIT in any way connected with any representation, warranty,
conduct, omission, deed or transaction related to this Undertaking;
(d)
the parties other than BBIS may not sue BBIS in any capacity other
than as trustee of BBIT, including seeking the appointment of a
receiver (except in relation to property of BBIT), a liquidator, an
administrator or any similar person to BBIS or prove in any liquidation,
administration or arrangement of or affecting BBIS (except in relation
to property of BBIT); and
(e)
the provisions of this clause 122 do not apply to any obligation or
liability of BBIS in its capacity as trustee of BBIT to the extent that it is
not satisfied because under the BBIT Constitution or by operation of
law there is a reduction in the extent of BBIS's indemnification out of
the assets of BBIT as a result of fraud, negligence or breach of trust
on the part of BBIS.
page 28


sign here r.
Director/company swatter
Ereehills 
Signing page
Executed by
EXECUTED by Babcock & Brown infrastructure Ltd
In accordance with section 127(1) of the Corporations Act 2001
(Cwith) by authority of its dire2tors
print name
`delete whichever is not applicable
MICHAEL JOHN RYAN 
sign here
EXECUTED by Singapore Power International Pte Ltd
in accordance with section 127(1) of the Corporations Act 2001
(Owlet) by a
 of Its directors
0 irector
print name 
Yap Chee Keong
sign hem
"delete whichever is not applicable
prirtt name 
Lim Howe Run
page 29


sign here
Directo
print name
.0"
leeter/company secret
sign here
Freehills 
EXECUTED by Babcock & Brown Investor Services Limited
in its capacity as trustee of the Babcock & Brown Infrastructure Trust
in accordance with section 127(1) of the Corporations Act 2001
(CwIth) by authority of its directors
*delete whichever is not applicable
print name 
MICHAEL JOHN RYAN
ACCEPTED BY THE AUSTRALIAN COMPETITION & CONSUMER COMMISSION
page 30
Graeme Julian Samuel
Chairman
Australian Competition and Consumer Commission
Dated: \ 
4
-2..tO.") 


Freehills
Annexure 'I
Confidential
page 1


Freehills
Annexure 2
Permissible communications under clause 31
Clause 31 does not prevent:
(1)
communications in the context of Alinta Asset Management or Agility
discharging its contractual obligations under the existing asset management
and maintenance contracts with APT, provided that the communications contain
no restrictions that would prevent the communications being subject to possible
review by the Commission and the Independent Auditor;
(2)
communications between BBI and APT or its responsible entity which
specifically concern legal proceedings (in a court or the Takeovers Panel) in
which BBI and APT are or may be involved;
(3)
communication between BBI and APT or its responsible entity that are
necessary for BBI to comply with the requirement to divest assets pursuant to
this Undertaking, provided the communications contain no restrictions that
would prevent the communications being subject to possible review by the
Commission and the Independent Auditor; and
(4)
any other conduct approved by the Commission in writing.
page 1


Frees
Annexure 3
Obligations Concerning Ring Fencing and Disposal of Agility-
APT (MSP and Parmelia) Contracts
I 
SPI or BB( will take all steps open to it to procure the result that (for so long as
Agility remains a service provider pursuant to the Agility-APT (MSP and
Parmelia) Contracts) the:
(a) 
Agility-APT (MSP and Parmelia) Contracts Assets are retained by
Agility (unless divested in accordance with this Undertaking) and
made available for the provision of services by Agility pursuant to the
Agility-APT (MSP and Parmelia) Contracts;
(b) 
Agility-APT (MSP and Parmelia) Contracts Assets are preserved as
viable and available for the provision of services pursuant to the
Agility-APT (MSP and Parmelia) Contracts;
(c) 
management and operation of the Agility-APT (MSP and Parmelia)
Contracts and the Agility-APT (MSP and Parmelia) Contracts Assets
are conducted separately from the remainder of Agility's business.
2 
SPI or NI will conduct the management and operation of the Agility-APT (MSP
and Parmelia) Contracts and the Agility-APT (MSP and Parmelia) Contracts
Assets:
(a)
separately from the management and staff of the remainder of Agility's
operations;
(b)
at a location which is separate from the remainder of Agility's
operations;
(C) so as to empower those managing the Agility-APT (MSP and
Parmelia) Contracts and the Agility-APT (MSP and Parmelia)
Contracts Assets to:
•
promote the Agility-APT (MSP and Parmelia) Contracts and the
Agility-APT (MSP and Parmelia) Contracts Assets;
•
acquire and pay for sufficient and timely deliveries of goods and
services required by the Agility-APT (MSP and Parmelia) Contracts
and the Agility-APT (MSP and Parmelia) Contracts Assets;
•
effectively maintain and discharge all of the obligations under the
Agility-APT (MSP and Parmelia) Contracts,
(d) 
by keeping the service records and other day to day records produced
or required In discharging the Agility-APT (MSP and Parmelia)
Contracts separate from those of the remainder of the Agility
operations and those of its related bodies corporate;
(e) by ensuring that no information in relation to the discharge of the
Agility-APT (MSP and Parmelia) Contracts is directly or indirectly
disclosed by any employee (or contractor) who is part of the Agility-
page 2


Freehills
APT (MSP and Parmelia) Contracts Assets to any other person at
Agility (including contractors) who is not part of the Agility-APT (MSP
and Parmelia) Contracts Assets, except as required for the effective
conduct and discharge of the Agility-APT (MSP and Parmelia)
Contracts;
by ensuring that the management of Agility are fully briefed on, and
implement fully, the arrangements required under this Annexure; and
(g) 
by ensuring that those responsible for the discharge of the Agility-APT
(MSP and Parmelia) Contracts are provided with sufficient working
capital and other requirements so as to ensure that they and the other
Agility-APT (MSP and Parmelia) Contracts Assets are capable of
effectively discharging the obligations under the Agility-APT (MSP and
Parmelia) Contracts at a level equivalent to the level and quality of
services provided under the Agility-APT (MSP and Parmelia)
Contracts prior to the implementation of the Scheme of Arrangement.
3 
SPI or BBI will ensure that any confidential information it obtains that relates to
the EGP is not disclosed to any persons who perform functions relating to the
management or operation of the MSP, without prior approval of the
Commission.
4 
SPI or BBI will ensure that any confidential information it obtains that relates to
the DBNGP is not disclosed to any persons who perform functions relating to
the management or operation of the Parmelia Pipeline, without prior approval of
the Commission.
5 
The ring fencing obligations described above do not prevent any conduct
approved by the Commission in writing.
page 3
