 
Page 1 of 20 
 
Statement of Issues 
7 July 2016 
 The Borg Group’s proposed acquisition of the 
manufacturing assets of Alpine MDF Industries Pty Ltd  
Purpose 
1. 
This Statement of Issues aims to: 
 
give the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission’s (ACCC’s) 
preliminary views on competition issues arising from the proposed 
acquisition of the manufacturing assets of Alpine MDF Industries Pty Ltd 
(Alpine) by the Borg Group (Borg) (the proposed acquisition) 
 
identify areas of further inquiry 
 
give all interested parties an opportunity to comment 
 
invite interested parties to submit information to assist us in our 
assessment of the issues. 
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views 
2. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is 
in section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the Act). Section 50 
prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of 
substantially lessening competition in any market. 
3. 
The ACCC divides its preliminary views into three categories, 'issues of concern', 
'issues that may raise concerns' and ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’. For this 
matter the ACCC has two issues of concern and one issue that may raise 
concerns.  
Issues of concern 
 
The proposed acquisition is likely to substantially lessen competition in the 
national market for the manufacture and supply of raw medium density 
fibreboard (MDF). The reduction in the number of raw MDF manufacturers 
from three to two and the removal of the only manufacturer without 
significant value-adding operations is likely to lead to higher prices and/or 


The Borg Group’s proposed acquisition of the manufacturing assets of Alpine MDF 
Industries Pty Ltd 
 
Page 2 of 20 
reduced service quality given the lack of competitive constraints in the 
relevant market.  
 
The proposed acquisition is likely to substantially lessen competition in one 
or more national markets for the supply of value-added MDF products, by 
increasing the ability and incentive of Borg to increase prices, or foreclose 
the supply of raw MDF to competing manufacturers and suppliers of 
downstream value-added MDF products.  
Issue that may raise concerns 
 
The proposed acquisition may substantially lessen competition in one or 
more national markets for the manufacture and supply of doorskins, 
mouldings or other particular value-added MDF products.  In particular, the 
reduction in the number of manufacturers of doorskins from two to one 
may lead to higher prices and/or reduced service quality. 
Making a submission 
4. 
The ACCC is seeking submissions from interested parties, particularly on the 
following key issues: 
 
The likelihood that the proposed acquisition would result in higher prices 
(or reduced service quality) for the supply of raw MDF. 
 
In the event that prices for domestic raw MDF increase by a small but 
significant amount, whether Australian customers would import raw MDF to 
avoid the price increase.  
 
Whether the proposed acquisition would reduce the intensity of competition 
between the remaining manufacturers of raw MDF in Australia.  For 
instance, whether it would facilitate co-ordination by Borg and the Laminex 
Group (Laminex) of prices of raw MDF. 
 
Whether the proposed acquisition is likely to increase the ability and 
incentive of Borg to increase prices or foreclose supply of raw MDF to 
competing manufacturers of value-added MDF products. 
 
The likelihood that the proposed acquisition would result in higher prices 
(or reduced service quality) for the supply of doorskins, mouldings or other 
value-added MDF products.   
5. 
Detailed discussion of these and other issues, along with specific questions, is 
contained in this Statement of Issues.  
6. 
Interested parties should provide submissions by no later than 5pm on 21 July 
2016. Responses may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: 
Submission re: Borg Alpine – attention Mandy Bendelstein/Julie Chandler. If you 
would like to discuss the matter with ACCC officers over the telephone or in 
person, or have any questions about this Statement of Issues, please contact 
Mandy Bendelstein on (02) 9230 3890 or Julie Chandler on (02) 9230 3877.  
7. 
The ACCC anticipates making a final decision on 1 September 2016, however, 
this timeline can change. To keep abreast of possible changes in relation to 


The Borg Group’s proposed acquisition of the manufacturing assets of Alpine MDF 
Industries Pty Ltd 
 
Page 3 of 20 
timing and to find relevant documents, interested parties should visit the Mergers 
Register on the ACCC's website at www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
Confidentiality of submissions 
8. 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We 
will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) 
unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation 
or during court proceedings) or in accordance with section155AAA of the Act.  
Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, the ACCC will 
notify you in advance where possible so that you may have an opportunity to be 
heard.  Therefore, if the information provided to the ACCC is of a confidential 
nature, please indicate as such. Our Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines 
contain more information on confidentiality. 
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’ 
9. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well 
as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
10. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 
Timeline 
Date 
Event 
26 April 2016 
ACCC commenced review of the proposed 
acquisition 
7 July 2016 
ACCC publication of Statement of Issues 
21 July 2016 
Closing date for submissions from interested parties 
in response to Statement of Issues 
1 September 2016 
Proposed date for announcement of ACCC’s final 
decision. 
 
The parties 
Borg 
11. 
The Borg Group (Borg) manufactures and supplies raw MDF and a range of 
value-added MDF products (including mouldings and doorskins), from its plant in 
Oberon, New South Wales.  


The Borg Group’s proposed acquisition of the manufacturing assets of Alpine MDF 
Industries Pty Ltd 
 
Page 4 of 20 
12. 
Borg also manufactures and supplies value-added MDF products from its plants 
in Charmhaven and Somersby in New South Wales.  
13. 
Borg owns Polytec, a supplier of value-added MDF products throughout 
Australia. 
14. 
Borg (including Polytec) generally distributes its raw and value-added MDF 
products through its national network of distribution centres and operates a fleet 
of trucks for providing deliveries. 
Alpine, SFC and Nelson Pine 
15. 
Alpine MDF Industries Pty Ltd (Alpine) manufactures and supplies raw MDF and 
value-added MDF products from its plant in Wangaratta, Victoria.  
16. 
The only value-added MDF products made by Alpine are mouldings and 
doorskins.  
17. 
Alpine is wholly-owned by Sumitomo Forestry Company Ltd of Tokyo, Japan 
(SFC).  
18. 
SFC has a wholly-owned subsidiary in New Zealand, Nelson Pine Industries 
Limited, which manufactures raw MDF. 
Other industry participants 
Laminex 
19. 
Other than Borg and Alpine, Laminex (i.e. the Laminex Group) is the only 
manufacturer and supplier of raw MDF in Australia. Its plant is located in 
Gympie, Queensland. If the proposed acquisition proceeds, Laminex will be the 
only other manufacturer and supplier of raw MDF in Australia.  
20. 
Laminex also manufactures and supplies a range of value-added MDF products, 
including mouldings (but not doorskins). 
21. 
Laminex distributes its raw MDF and value-added MDF products primarily 
through its network of branches and warehouses.  
22. 
Laminex is part of the Fletcher Building Group which holds a 20% shareholding 
in Dongwha NZ Limited, a producer of raw MDF in New Zealand. 
Manufacturers of value-added MDF products 
23. 
There are many Australian manufacturers of value-added MDF products that 
purchase raw MDF.  These manufacturers range from large-scale kitchen and 
wardrobe manufacturers, to smaller more specialist manufacturers, such as 
joineries and skirting board manufacturers. 
Re-sellers/distributors of raw MDF 
24. 
Several companies purchase raw MDF in order to resell it to small to medium-
sized manufacturers of value-added MDF products and other customers. 
Sometimes these companies change the products slightly (for example, by 


The Borg Group’s proposed acquisition of the manufacturing assets of Alpine MDF 
Industries Pty Ltd 
 
Page 5 of 20 
cutting the raw MDF sheets into smaller sizes). Many of these companies 
purchase raw MDF from Alpine and in some cases act as Alpine’s distributors. 
Industry background 
25. 
Raw MDF is a wood-based panel product formed by breaking down woodchips 
into fibre, combining it with wax and resin, and forming panels by applying high 
temperature and pressure.  
26. 
Raw MDF is used for multiple applications, such as DIY purposes, shop-fitting 
and making furniture. Raw MDF is purchased in different sizes and thicknesses. 
The most popular thicknesses in Australia are 16mm and 18mm. 
27. 
All of the wood fibre used to make raw MDF in Australia and New Zealand 
comes from pine plantations located near manufacturing plants. Raw MDF made 
in Australia and New Zealand is considered to be of a high quality, and is 
generally regarded as superior to raw MDF made in Asia which often uses 
different types of wood fibres (often derived from rubberwood).  
28. 
Value-added MDF is raw MDF to which secondary manufacturing processes 
have been applied. Value-added MDF products include doorskins, mouldings 
and laminated kitchen and bathroom cabinet doors. 
a. Doorskins are thin pieces of MDF (primarily 3mm thick, but also up to 
12mm thick) which are painted and glued to each side of the core of an 
interior or exterior door.  
b. Mouldings include architraves and skirting boards found in residential and 
commercial premises.  
The proposed acquisition 
29. 
Borg proposes to acquire all of Alpine’s assets for manufacturing raw and value-
added MDF, which are located in Wangaratta, Victoria. Borg is not acquiring 
Alpine’s goodwill, intellectual property rights, or sales or marketing assets. 
Future with and without the proposed acquisition  
30. 
Section 50 of the Act prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect or be likely 
to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market.  
31. 
In assessing a proposed acquisition pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC 
considers the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future competitive 
environment if the acquisition proceeds (the “with” position) to the likely future 
competitive environment if the acquisition does not proceed (the “without” 
position). 
32. 
On the basis of the information currently available, the ACCC considers that in 
the future without the proposed acquisition, Alpine’s manufacturing assets would 
continue to be operated independently of Borg and Laminex. 


The Borg Group’s proposed acquisition of the manufacturing assets of Alpine MDF 
Industries Pty Ltd 
 
Page 6 of 20 
Previous ACCC decisions 
Sumitomo Forestry Company Limited (SFC) – proposed acquisition of certain 
assets of Carter Holt Harvey Limited’s Woodproducts Australia business (2008) - 
opposed 
33. 
In 2008 the ACCC opposed the proposed acquisition by SFC of certain assets 
owned by Carter Holt Harvey (CHH) including a raw MDF manufacturing plant at 
Oberon in New South Wales. 
34. 
The proposed acquisition in 2008 was the reverse of the current proposed 
acquisition, with the owner of the raw MDF manufacturing facility at Wangaratta 
(SFC) proposing to acquire the raw MDF manufacturing facility at Oberon.  
35. 
Similar to the current proposed acquisition, the proposed acquisition in 2008 
would have reduced the number of manufacturers of raw MDF in Australia from 
three to two. 
36. 
The ACCC was of the view that the proposed acquisition would be likely to have 
the effect of substantially lessening competition in the national market for the 
manufacture and supply of raw MDF, and was also likely to foreclose the supply 
of raw MDF to downstream competing manufacturers of value-added MDF 
products. 
37. 
The ACCC did not consider that actual or potential import competition would 
effectively constrain SFC following the proposed acquisition. The ACCC 
considered that: 
a. the majority of raw MDF traded globally was not of comparable quality to 
Australian raw MDF (in terms of the wood used and formaldehyde emission 
standards) 
b. while New Zealand’s raw MDF was of suitable quality, corporate links 
between Australian and New Zealand manufacturers meant that significant 
quantities of raw MDF were unlikely to be available for independent imports 
to Australia 
c. the prices of Australian raw MDF would need to increase in excess of 5-
10% before there was any possibility of significant and suitable quality raw 
MDF being imported into Australia from South-East Asia or South America, 
and 
d. imported value-added MDF products would be unlikely to impose an 
effective constraint on SFC following the proposed acquisition.  
The ACCC public register relating to this matter is available at: 
http://registers.accc.gov.au/content/index.phtml/itemId/811679/fromItemId/751043  
The Borg Group – proposed acquisition of raw MDF manufacturing plant of 
Carter Holt Harvey Woodproducts Australia Pty Ltd located at Oberon, NSW 
(2009) – not opposed 
38. 
In 2009 the ACCC did not oppose Borg’s proposed acquisition of CHH’s raw 
MDF manufacturing plant at Oberon in New South Wales, and other assets.  


The Borg Group’s proposed acquisition of the manufacturing assets of Alpine MDF 
Industries Pty Ltd 
 
Page 7 of 20 
39. 
At the time, Borg was not manufacturing raw MDF in Australia. This meant that 
following the proposed acquisition there continued to be three manufacturers of 
raw MDF.    
40. 
The ACCC concluded that the proposed acquisition was unlikely to materially 
increase the ability and incentive for foreclosure of downstream rivals, such as 
by restricting supply of raw MDF, or hindering of rivals' alternative supply 
options. 
The ACCC public register relating to this matter is available at: 
http://registers.accc.gov.au/content/index.phtml/itemId/903273/fromItemId/751043  
Market definition 
41. 
For the purposes of this Statement of Issues, the ACCC considers that the 
relevant markets in which to assess the effects on competition arising from the 
proposed acquisition are: 
a. a national market for the manufacture and supply of raw MDF 
b. a national market for the manufacture and supply of doorskins, and 
c. national markets for the manufacture and supply of value-added MDF 
products. 
42. 
The ACCC’s starting point for delineating relevant markets is to identify the 
products actually or potentially supplied by the merger parties. The ACCC then 
considers what other products constitute sufficiently close substitutes to provide 
a significant source of constraint on the acquirer (i.e. Borg) following the 
proposed acquisition. 
National market for the manufacture and supply of raw MDF 
Product dimension 
43. 
Consistent with the ACCC’s previous decision in relation to SFC’s proposed 
acquisition of certain assets of CHH’s Woodproducts Australia business in 2008, 
market feedback has indicated that there is a national market for the 
manufacture and supply of raw MDF. 
44. 
Other wood-based panel products, such as particleboard and plywood, do not 
appear to be close substitutes for raw MDF in the context of many applications 
and therefore, do not form part of the relevant product market.  In particular the 
ACCC considers that while other wood-based panel products may constitute 
functional alternatives to raw MDF in certain limited circumstances, they are 
generally not close substitutes for raw MDF.  
45. 
On the demand side, market inquiries indicate that: 
a. particleboard is not a close substitute for raw MDF in many applications. 
For instance, the structural characteristics of particleboard make it 
unsuitable for use in applications that require shaping or routing and it has 
a rougher surface which may produce an uneven finish when painted   


The Borg Group’s proposed acquisition of the manufacturing assets of Alpine MDF 
Industries Pty Ltd 
 
Page 8 of 20 
b. as particleboard is cheaper than raw MDF, to the extent that users of wood-
based products are willing and able to use particleboard instead of raw 
MDF, many are likely to have already done so, and 
c. while plywood may possess similar characteristics to raw MDF for some 
applications, plywood often costs much more than raw MDF, so it is unlikely 
to be a substitute for raw MDF, even in the event of a small but significant 
and non-transitory increase in the price of raw MDF. 
46. 
On the supply side, market inquiries have indicated that different machinery is 
needed to produce particleboard, plywood and raw MDF.  Manufacturers of 
particleboard and plywood would not be able to adapt their existing production 
facilities to produce raw MDF without significant capital investment and time.  
Different types of timber may also be needed to produce different wood-based 
products. 
47. 
For the reasons set out above, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that other wood-
based panel products are not close substitutes for raw-MDF from a demand-side 
or a supply-side perspective.  
Geographic dimension 
48. 
Based on market feedback, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the geographic 
scope of the market for the manufacture and supply of raw MDF is national.  The 
vast majority of raw MDF purchased by Australian customers is made in 
Australia. Market participants indicated that transport costs increase significantly 
when raw MDF is transported across long distances. The ACCC does not 
currently consider that there is a global or trans-Tasman market for the supply of 
raw MDF.  The prices paid for raw MDF are not determined globally and there 
are currently no material imports of raw MDF into Australia. The ACCC’s 
preliminary assessment of the constraint that imports, or potential imports, would 
impose on Borg post-acquisition is set out below.  
National markets for the manufacture and supply of value-added MDF products 
49. 
The ACCC is also considering the likely competitive effects of the proposed 
acquisition in the context of the downstream market (or markets) for the 
manufacture and supply of value-added MDF products in Australia (e.g. 
laminated kitchen and bathroom cabinet doors, mouldings and doorskins).   
50. 
Alpine and Borg both manufacture mouldings and doorskins, and like Laminex, 
Borg also makes a wide range of other value-added MDF products.   
51. 
The ACCC is seeking further information from market participants about the 
manufacture, supply and use of doorskins and mouldings, to determine whether 
there are separate markets for the supply of these types of value-added MDF 
products. 
52. 
The ACCC is also considering whether the proposed acquisition is likely to raise 
competition issues in any national market for the manufacture and supply of a 
value-added MDF product in which Borg operates. 


The Borg Group’s proposed acquisition of the manufacturing assets of Alpine MDF 
Industries Pty Ltd 
 
Page 9 of 20 
National market for the manufacture and supply of doorskins  
53. 
The ACCC understands that in Australia only Borg and Alpine manufacture 
doorskins (and Laminex does not).  As noted above, doorskins are thin pieces of 
raw MDF (primarily 3mm thick, but also up to 12mm thick) which are painted and 
glued to each side of the core of a door.  
54. 
Market feedback suggests that doorskins are made on different machinery from 
other value-added MDF products. Therefore manufacturers of other value-added 
MDF products cannot switch to producing doorskins easily or without significant 
investment. 
55. 
The ACCC is considering the extent to which doorskins made of different wood-
based products, such as particleboard, are substitutes for doorskins made from 
MDF. 
56. 
The ACCC understands that plywood is not a close substitute for MDF in the 
making of doorskins, due to the significant price difference between the two 
products.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary views about 
the definition of the relevant market(s). In particular, market participants may wish to 
comment on: 
 
Whether market participants agree that the relevant geographic markets are 
national, or whether they consider that should be broader.  
 
The extent to which particleboard, plywood or other wood-based products could be 
substituted for raw MDF if the prices of raw MDF rose. 
 
The appropriateness of considering separate markets for the manufacture and 
supply of (i) doorskins and (ii) mouldings, rather than a single market for the 
manufacture and supply of all value-added MDF products.  
 
Whether the machinery used to manufacture (i) doorskins and (ii) mouldings can 
be used to manufacture other value-added MDF products, or the reverse.  
 
Whether doorskins made of different wood-based products, such as particleboard, 
are close substitutes for raw MDF.  
Issue of concern: Reduction in manufacturers of raw MDF  
57. 
Based upon its inquiries to date, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the 
proposed acquisition is likely to substantially lessen competition in the national 
market for the manufacture and supply of raw MDF. 
58. 
The proposed acquisition would reduce the number of raw MDF manufacturers 
in Australia from three to two and create a duopoly in the manufacture and 
supply of raw MDF. Borg and Laminex would be the only manufacturers of raw 
MDF in Australia.  
59. 
The ACCC therefore considers that the removal of Alpine from the market for the 
manufacture and supply of raw MDF is likely to lead to unilateral effects and/or 


The Borg Group’s proposed acquisition of the manufacturing assets of Alpine MDF 
Industries Pty Ltd 
 
Page 10 of 20 
coordinated effects in the national market for the manufacture and supply of raw 
MDF. 
Unilateral effects 
60. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that by removing the close competition provided 
by Alpine, the proposed acquisition raises the concern that Borg would have the 
ability to unilaterally exercise market power, leading to higher prices and/or 
reduced service in respect of the supply of raw MDF.  
61. 
The ACCC considers that there will be a lack of competitive constraints on Borg 
in the relevant market, given: 
a. Borg would grow from controlling approximately one third to over half the 
raw MDF manufacturing capacity in Australia 
b. the reduction in the number of raw MDF manufacturers and suppliers in 
Australia from three to two would reduce the choices available to customers  
and diminish their leverage in pricing negotiations with Borg (and/or 
Laminex) 
c. Borg and Alpine are close competitors in relation to the supply of raw MDF, 
offering raw MDF in many of the same thicknesses and sheet sizes, and 
have been willing to lower their prices to win customers from each other.  
For customers in Victoria, South Australia or parts of New South Wales, 
Alpine and Borg represent much closer alternatives than Laminex which 
produces its MDF in Queensland 
d. Alpine supplies a greater proportion of its output to third parties than Borg 
and Laminex which use significant proportions of their raw MDF to make 
value-added MDF products (Alpine only uses a very modest proportion of 
its output of raw MDF for making value-added MDF products) 
e. the proposed acquisition would remove Alpine, which is currently the only 
manufacturer of raw MDF in Australia with a strong incentive to supply 
wholesalers and distributors of raw MDF and manufacturers of value-added 
products. Unlike Borg and Laminex, Alpine does not also produce many of 
the value-added MDF products supplied by those customers, and does not 
compete with these customers. Alpine is regarded as an ‘independent’ 
source of supply for those customers 
f. Alpine is likely to be the manufacturer of raw MDF with the most spare 
capacity in Australia 
g. There may be some limits on Laminex’s willingness to supply all segments 
of customers buying raw MDF, so there may be customers for which Borg 
would be the only Australian-based supplier of raw MDF following the 
proposed acquisition 
h. Laminex would be Borg’s only rival manufacturer and supplier of raw MDF 
in Australia, and like Borg, Laminex is vertically integrated with sizable 
downstream value-added MDF operations. A significant proportion of the 
raw MDF produced by Laminex is used internally to manufacture value-
added MDF products 


The Borg Group’s proposed acquisition of the manufacturing assets of Alpine MDF 
Industries Pty Ltd 
 
Page 11 of 20 
i. 
the actual or potential constraint provided by imports of raw or value-added 
MDF is likely to be limited 
j. 
barriers to entry in the relevant market appear to be high, and 
k. customers of raw MDF generally lack countervailing power. 
62. 
The ACCC’s consideration of these competitive constraints is also relevant to the 
concerns raised about coordinated effects, as discussed below. 
No material current imports of raw MDF, and no likely credible threat of imports 
in the foreseeable future 
63. 
The ACCC is not aware of any material volumes of raw MDF currently being 
imported into Australia other than by existing local manufacturers, and this has 
not changed in many years. Based on the information currently available to it, 
the ACCC considers that existing imports of raw MDF would appear unlikely to 
constrain Borg following the proposed acquisition. 
64. 
In respect of the potential to import raw MDF in the future, a small number of 
market participants consider that imports of raw MDF are possible and others 
consider that it is a potential option they can explore further. However the 
majority of market participants consider that there is limited scope to obtain 
imports of suitable quality raw MDF in sufficient quantities.  
65. 
The ACCC understands that customers have encountered the following specific 
difficulties when importing, or seeking to import, raw MDF from each of the 
following parts of the world which produce large volumes of raw MDF. 
New Zealand 
66. 
Many customers reported difficulties securing supply of raw MDF from New 
Zealand.  The ACCC considers that New Zealand based manufacturers and 
suppliers of raw MDF are unlikely to have an incentive to divert raw MDF to 
Australia from their existing export markets in response to a small but significant 
increase in the price of raw MDF in Australia. The ACCC understands that this is 
a result of: 
a. Two of Australia’s three manufacturers of raw MDF have parent companies 
with interests in two of the three manufacturers of raw MDF in New Zealand  
b. Higher margins being attainable for New Zealand’s raw MDF exported to  
Asian countries (primarily Japan) rather than Australia 
c. High proportions of New Zealand’s raw MDF being exported to Asia 
pursuant to longstanding customer relationships, and  
d. Licensing restrictions on the sale of certain brands of raw MDF in Australia.  
67. 
In spite of the short distance, it generally costs significantly more to ship 
products across the Tasman Sea than it does to move products between 
Australia and Asia or New Zealand and Asia (partly because of the relative 
infrequency of ships). As a result of more expensive shipping costs and lower 
prices attainable in Australia, the ACCC understands that New Zealand’s 


The Borg Group’s proposed acquisition of the manufacturing assets of Alpine MDF 
Industries Pty Ltd 
 
Page 12 of 20 
producers of raw MDF can obtain higher margins from selling their raw MDF to 
Asia rather than Australia.  
68. 
Market inquiries suggest that New Zealand’s producers of raw MDF would lack 
the incentive to supply Australia with raw MDF in the full range of sizes and 
thicknesses purchased by Australian customers. 
South East Asia 
69. 
The ACCC understands that the quality of raw MDF produced in South East Asia 
is of lower quality than that produced in Australia and New Zealand.  The fibre 
blend is often of mixed or unknown origin, and it is generally made from 
rubberwood.  Many market participants consider that raw MDF manufactured in 
South East Asia is unsuitable for making value-added MDF products, particularly 
if machining or routing is needed.  
South America and South Africa 
70. 
Customers who have considered buying raw MDF from South Africa or South 
America have reported difficulties in obtaining competitively priced supply.  
71. 
Other customers suggested that they could not remain competitive importing raw 
MDF from South Africa or South America, as there were long lead times and 
shipping times, or they were uncertain whether suppliers could produce raw 
MDF of a suitable quality, in terms of density and formaldehyde emissions.  
Other concerns with imports from all potential points of origin 
72. 
The ACCC understands that many customers hold concerns about importing raw 
MDF due to the following potential difficulties and risks associated with the 
process:   
a. Longer lead times and increased risks of delays: Customers who have 
imported wood-based products suggested that in addition to allowing for 
the longer lead times and shipping times associated with imports, it can 
take significant additional time for products to clear the port and be 
transported to their warehouses compared with domestic supply.   
b. Warehousing: Some customers have minimal warehousing and order raw 
MDF from their domestic supplier on a ‘just in time’ basis.  These 
customers indicated that they would need to invest in extra warehousing at 
significant cost to import raw MDF.  
c. Limited sizes: Customers indicated that they would be unable to buy all of 
the sizes and densities of raw MDF that they currently buy domestically 
from overseas suppliers.  Some of the sizes used by Australian customers 
differ to the sizes produced by overseas manufacturers. 
d. Difficulties with containerisation and logistics: Some customers indicated 
that they would rarely need an entire container load of raw MDF of an 
identical size, that some sizes of raw MDF are too difficult to remove from 
containers and that mixing sizes in one container results in the customer 
paying for the transportation of air which increases their per unit 
transportation costs.  Further, because of Australian laws limiting the weight 


The Borg Group’s proposed acquisition of the manufacturing assets of Alpine MDF 
Industries Pty Ltd 
 
Page 13 of 20 
that can be transported by road, imported containers often cannot be filled 
completely which increases shipping costs. 
e. Price: Customers have indicated that the landed price of imported raw 
MDF, of suitable quality, would be considerably higher than existing 
domestic prices.   
73. 
The ACCC recognises that many of the logistical difficulties could be overcome, 
and often are by importers of other wood based panel products. However only a 
minority of customers (in particular distributors) have the experience and scale 
necessary to import raw MDF, and these customers have reported difficulty in 
securing competitively priced supply of suitable quality.  Further, the ACCC 
understands that higher margins tend to be available for other wood-based panel 
products, making importation of these products more likely to be competitively 
possible than raw MDF.  
74. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the prices of domestically produced raw 
MDF would need to increase before a significant proportion of customers could 
credibly threaten to switch to imports. 
Imports of value-added MDF products 
75. 
The parties to the proposed acquisition contend that if local manufacturers of raw 
MDF raise their prices too much, local downstream manufacturers of value-
added MDF products (such as kitchens or furniture) will go out of business 
because their customers would import cheaper value-added MDF products into 
Australia.   
76. 
The ACCC understands that certain types of value-added MDF products are 
being increasingly imported into Australia (e.g. flat pack kitchens for resale to 
consumers and installation in medium to high density apartment buildings).  
However, the ACCC understands that these imports remain a relatively modest 
proportion of all such products sold in Australia.   
77. 
The ACCC does not currently consider that imports of value-added MDF 
products would indirectly act as a significant constraint on Borg following the 
proposed acquisition. If Borg increased the prices of its raw MDF, the increasing 
competitiveness of imported value-added MDF products would not be likely to 
reduce the volume of raw MDF sold by Borg or Laminex to such an extent that it 
would prevent Borg from profitably undertaking such a price increase.  In 
addition, this may increase Borg’s sales and profitability in that downstream 
value-added MDF market. 
Barriers to entry are high 
78. 
Consistent with the ACCC’s previous review involving the manufacture of raw 
MDF, it considers that barriers to entry to the market for the manufacture of raw 
MDF are high.  
79. 
The capital costs associated with establishing a greenfield raw MDF 
manufacturing plant are substantial, and sunk costs are likely to constitute a 
substantial proportion of those costs.  


The Borg Group’s proposed acquisition of the manufacturing assets of Alpine MDF 
Industries Pty Ltd 
 
Page 14 of 20 
80. 
Further, Australian wood resources (and in particular, suitable pine) are 
generally already contracted for extended periods with existing manufacturers of 
raw MDF and other wood-based products.  
81. 
The ACCC understands that Australia’s capacity to manufacture raw MDF 
currently exceeds domestic demand.  Accordingly, there is unlikely to be an 
incentive for a new entrant to establish a new raw MDF plant.  
82. 
The ACCC currently considers that new entry is unlikely to occur in the 
foreseeable future and therefore, following the proposed acquisition, Borg would 
not be constrained by the threat of such entry.  
Countervailing power 
83. 
Given the likely height of the barriers to entry, and the difficulties reported by 
customers in relation to importing raw MDF, the ACCC considers that customers 
would be unable to credibly threaten to bypass Borg (e.g. by sponsoring new 
entry or importing raw MDF), if Borg sought to increase the prices of its raw MDF 
following the proposed acquisition. 
Increased risk of coordination 
84. 
As noted above, the proposed acquisition would reduce the number of raw MDF 
manufacturers in Australia from three to two and create a duopoly in the 
manufacture and supply of raw MDF. Borg and Laminex would be the only 
manufacturers of raw MDF in Australia. 
85. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition is likely to increase the 
risk of coordinated effects in the national market for the manufacture and supply 
of raw MDF. 
86. 
Consistent with its previous merger reviews, the ACCC does not consider that 
such coordination would require any explicit communication or commitment 
between rivals. Rather, rivals would act in their own self- interest, taking into 
account each other’s likely actions and reactions.  
87. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the reduction in competitive tension 
between the remaining raw MDF manufacturers could make it easier for them to 
coordinate key commercial decision-making, such as price increases, customer 
allocation, and output and/or production capacities, and would make it more 
likely that they would do so.   
88. 
The ACCC considers that the market for the manufacture and supply of raw 
MDF has a number of characteristics that are likely to be conducive to 
coordination, such as: 
a. The proposed acquisition will result in increased symmetry between the 
remaining raw MDF manufacturers, in terms of market shares and 
manufacturing scale. 
b. Borg and Laminex are vertically integrated with significant downstream 
operations in value-added MDF manufacture and supply.  Such similarly 
constituted firms, of similar size, may have reduced incentives to compete 
effectively to win market share. 


The Borg Group’s proposed acquisition of the manufacturing assets of Alpine MDF 
Industries Pty Ltd 
 
Page 15 of 20 
c. There are high levels of price and output transparency - prices charged by 
each supplier of raw MDF in Australia at any given time, proposals to 
increase prices and details of actual price increases are discussed widely in 
the industry and are well-known by most customers and suppliers. 
d. There is limited product innovation (raw MDF products are relatively 
homogenous), limited fluctuations in costs (given the nature of the inputs 
required for raw MDF that are typically acquired through long term 
contracts), and demand from raw MDF customers is generally stable.  
e. Interactions between suppliers of raw MDF further increases transparency 
in the market. Industry participants identified that manufacturers of raw 
MDF can and do seek supply from other manufacturers in the event that 
they experience a shortfall in production. 
f. Customers of raw MDF tend to place frequent and small orders with 
manufacturers. Whilst some customers have a 12 or 18 month supply 
contract, generally long term supply contracts for raw MDF are rare. 
Customers can easily switch between suppliers so there would be little 
incentive for either supplier to deviate from a consensus to capture market 
share. 
89. 
The ACCC is continuing to consider other aspects of the relevant markets to 
determine the likelihood of coordinated effects arising from the proposed 
acquisition.   
ACCC’s preliminary views 
90. 
In summary, the ACCC is concerned that: 
a. The proposed acquisition will considerably reduce the bargaining power of 
customers when negotiating the prices of raw MDF by removing the third 
domestic manufacturer of the product.   
b. Following the proposed acquisition, Borg would have a substantial, and 
considerably increased, market share and in the absence of constraints 
provided by Laminex or imports, Borg would be likely to increase prices or 
degrade other aspects of its offering (e.g. service or quality).  
c. Following the proposed acquisition there would be insufficient competitive 
constraints on Borg and Laminex to prevent price increases or equivalent 
non-price degradation of their offers, including because: 
i. Laminex may not be incentivised to compete vigorously against Borg in 
relation to the prices of its raw MDF 
ii. Current imports of raw MDF into Australia are negligible, and customers 
are unlikely to be able to credibly threaten to switch to imports of raw 
MDF of suitable quality, in the sizes and thicknesses they require, and 
at competitive prices in the foreseeable future  
iii. Imports of value-added MDF products appear unlikely to indirectly 
constrain Borg to a sufficient extent 
iv. Barriers to entry appear to be high, and 


The Borg Group’s proposed acquisition of the manufacturing assets of Alpine MDF 
Industries Pty Ltd 
 
Page 16 of 20 
v. Customers appear to lack countervailing power. 
d. The proposed acquisition is likely to increase the risk of coordinated effects 
in the national market for the manufacture and supply of raw MDF, for 
instance by Borg and Laminex coordinating their prices of raw MDF. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concern that the 
proposed acquisition would be likely to substantially lessen competition in the national 
market for the manufacture and supply of raw MDF.  In particular, market participants 
may wish to comment on the following: 
 
Whether market participants would expect Laminex to compete vigorously with 
Borg following the proposed acquisition.  
 
By how much would the prices of Borg’s raw MDF need to increase before 
customers would look to import raw MDF of a suitable quality?  In responding to 
this question, please provide details of any overseas suppliers, and details of any 
quotes or responses received from overseas suppliers in relation to the supply raw 
MDF. Please also comment on lead times, warehousing needs, the availability of 
sizes and thicknesses, and logistics. 
 
If any New Zealand-based manufacturer of raw MDF has expressed a willingness 
to supply you with raw MDF, please identify the supplier, the available sizes and 
thicknesses, the anticipated shipping costs, the pricing at which that supply would 
occur, and the expected or actual duration from the placement of the order until 
receipt of the products.  
 
Whether actual or potential imports of value-added MDF products, including ‘flat 
pack kitchens’, would indirectly constrain Borg from raising the prices of its raw 
MDF. 
 
Have you observed any behaviour by manufacturers of raw MDF which may 
suggest that price-based coordination between such manufacturers would be likely 
following the proposed acquisition? 
 
How price-based coordination may occur between Borg and Laminex, having 
regard to customer experience of price increases by raw MDF manufacturers. 
Issue of concern: Vertical foreclosure of rival 
manufacturers of value-added MDF products and 
intermediaries 
91. 
Customers who compete with Borg and Laminex in the manufacture and supply 
of value-added MDF products have raised strong concerns that the proposed 
acquisition would remove the only manufacturer and supplier of raw MDF in 
Australia which is not also a significant manufacturer and supplier of value-
added MDF products and therefore, is not one of their direct competitors.  
Customers expressed strong concerns that the proposed acquisition would 
provide Borg with an increased ability and incentive to foreclose and/or 
discriminate against them in the supply of raw MDF. 
92. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is likely to provide 
Borg with market power in relation to the manufacture and supply of raw MDF 


The Borg Group’s proposed acquisition of the manufacturing assets of Alpine MDF 
Industries Pty Ltd 
 
Page 17 of 20 
because it will not be sufficiently constrained.  If so, Borg may have the ability 
and incentive to foreclose and/or discriminate against its downstream rivals in 
the manufacture and supply of value-added MDF products.   
93. 
Borg and Laminex are vertically integrated into the downstream manufacture and 
supply of value-added MDF products.  Alpine is currently the only manufacturer 
of raw MDF in Australia which does not produce a significant range or volume of 
value-added MDF products.  For instance, Alpine does not produce any 
laminated MDF products.  The removal of Alpine will therefore increase Borg’s 
ability, and possibly its incentive, to engage in foreclosure or discrimination of 
those downstream rivals.  For instance, by raising the prices they pay for raw 
MDF which is required to make value-added MDF products.   
94. 
The ACCC notes that foreclosure and/or discrimination by Borg would only be 
successful if Laminex was unable or unwilling to supply the customers that Borg 
sought to foreclose and/or discriminate against. The ACCC is still considering 
Laminex’s ability and incentive to supply raw MDF in response to an increase in 
the price or reduction in the volume of supply by Borg.  
95. 
At this stage, the ACCC considers that Borg would be likely to have an incentive 
to engage in foreclosure and/or discrimination of those customers (e.g. by raising 
the costs of its downstream rivals), as the ACCC understands that Borg and 
Laminex earn greater margins from value-added MDF than raw MDF.   
96. 
The ACCC understands that some distributors of raw MDF and manufacturers of 
value-added MDF products may already be unable to buy the raw MDF they 
require from Borg and/or Laminex on competitive terms.  
97. 
Although Borg and Laminex may currently supply some of their downstream 
competitors with raw MDF, it is the ACCC’s preliminary view that by removing 
the only manufacturer of raw MDF which has a strong incentive to supply 
wholesalers, distributors and manufacturers of value-added MDF products which 
compete with Borg and Laminex, the proposed acquisition is likely to increase 
Borg’s incentive to foreclose supply to these customers, including competing 
suppliers of higher margin value-added MDF products.   
98. 
The ACCC is therefore concerned that the proposed acquisition would provide 
Borg with an increased ability and incentive to: 
a. restrict the supply of raw MDF to competing manufacturers of value-added 
MDF products, and/or 
b. raise the costs of competing manufacturers of value-added MDF products 
by increasing the prices they must pay for raw MDF. 
99. 
The ACCC currently considers that such foreclosure and/or discrimination would 
be likely to result in a substantial lessening of competition in national markets for 
the manufacture and supply of value-added MDF products.  
ACCC’s preliminary views 
100. In summary, the ACCC is concerned that: 
a. If the proposed acquisition proceeds, raw MDF will only be manufactured 
and supplied in Australia by Borg and Laminex, which produce significant 


The Borg Group’s proposed acquisition of the manufacturing assets of Alpine MDF 
Industries Pty Ltd 
 
Page 18 of 20 
volumes of value-added MDF products, in favour of its own downstream 
operations and customers will no longer be able to buy suitable raw MDF 
from a supplier that they do not compete with downstream.  
b. The proposed acquisition may increase Borg’s ability and incentive to 
foreclose supply of raw MDF to competing downstream manufacturers of 
value-added MDF products, which generate higher margins, regardless of 
whether it currently supplies these customers. This is likely to substantially 
lessen competition in national markets for the manufacture and supply of 
value-added MDF products. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to the 
risk of foreclosure and/or discrimination of downstream competitors of Borg seeking to 
buy raw MDF.  In particular, market participants may wish to comment on the 
following: 
 
Whether there are particular types of customers that Borg has refused to supply, or 
is likely to refuse to supply after the proposed acquisition, with competitively priced 
raw MDF.  Please provide specific examples of any past refusals to supply, 
including the timing, reasons given and any pricing quoted.  
 
Whether it is likely that raw MDF manufacturers would have the incentive to reduce 
supply in order to foreclose to downstream rivals in the manufacture and supply of 
value-added MDF.  
 
Whether Laminex would be a willing and able supplier of competitively priced raw 
MDF, if Borg sought to raise its prices or reduce supply volumes after the proposed 
acquisition.  
 
The importance of Alpine in providing a source of competitively priced raw MDF for 
manufacturers of value-added MDF products, including those that compete with 
Borg (through Polytec) and Laminex.  
 
The relative margins generated by supplying raw MDF compared with the various 
value-added MDF products.  
Issue that may be of concern: Aggregation in value-added 
MDF markets 
101. As discussed above, Borg and Alpine overlap in relation to the manufacture and 
supply of two value-added MDF products, doorskins and mouldings, and the 
ACCC is considering whether there are separate product markets for different 
types of value-added MDF products.  
102. Market participants have indicated that Borg and Alpine are the only 
manufacturers and suppliers of doorskins in Australia. The ACCC understands 
that Laminex does not supply doorskins in Australia, and that a producer of raw 
MDF or other value-added MDF products would need to make significant 
additional investment and have sufficient available space in order to begin 
making doorskins.  As a result, the ACCC currently considers that Borg is likely 
to be the only manufacturer of doorskins in Australia following the proposed 
acquisition.  


The Borg Group’s proposed acquisition of the manufacturing assets of Alpine MDF 
Industries Pty Ltd 
 
Page 19 of 20 
103. A number of market participants have identified concerns that as a result of the 
proposed acquisition, they will have no alternative but to purchase doorskins 
from Borg which will have the ability and incentive to increase prices. 
ACCC’s preliminary views 
104. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that this change in market structure may 
substantially lessen competition in the market for the manufacture and supply of 
the doorskins in the event that Borg does not face any effective competitive 
constraints. 
105. The ACCC is seeking further information in relation to the manufacture and 
supply of doorskins to understand whether there will be any issues of concern. 
106. The ACCC is also considering whether any competition issues are likely to arise 
in relation to the manufacture and supply of mouldings. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the aggregation in value-
added MDF markets arising from the proposed acquisition, in particular doorskins. 
Market participants may wish to comment on the following: 
 
The likelihood of new entry for the supply of doorskins. For example, could existing 
manufacturers of other value-added MDF products begin making doorskins? 
 
The extent to which customers of doorskins could import doorskins or complete 
doors into Australia if domestic prices increased. Please provide reasons and 
identify any obstacles where relevant. 
 
Whether customers can purchase thin raw MDF and manufacture their own 
doorskins. Please describe the process that would be involved, including any 
special equipment that would be needed.  
 
The likelihood of new entry for the supply of mouldings.  For example, could 
existing manufacturers of other value-added MDF products begin making 
mouldings? 
 
Whether customers of mouldings could import mouldings into Australia if domestic 
prices increased.  Please provide reasons and identify any obstacles where 
relevant. 
ACCC's next steps 
107. The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
108. As noted above, the ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on 
each of the issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue 
that may be relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. Submissions are 
to be received by the ACCC no later than 21 July 2016 and should be emailed to 
mergers@accc.gov.au. 
109. The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 1 September 2016. 
However the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Informal Merger 


The Borg Group’s proposed acquisition of the manufacturing assets of Alpine MDF 
Industries Pty Ltd 
 
Page 20 of 20 
Review Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment may be 
published following the ACCC's public announcement, to explain its final view. 
