 
 
23 February 2012 
 
Statement of Issues — Amcor Limited’s proposed 
acquisition of Aperio Group Pty Limited 
1. 
Outlined below is the Statement of Issues released by the Australian Competition 
and Consumer Commission (ACCC) in relation to the proposed acquisition of 
Aperio Group Pty Limited (Aperio) by Amcor Limited (Amcor) (proposed 
acquisition). 
2. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well 
as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
3. 
In line with the ACCC’s Merger Review Process Guidelines (available on the 
ACCC’s website at www.accc.gov.au) the ACCC has established a secondary 
timeline for further consideration of the issues. The ACCC anticipates completing 
further market inquiries by 8 March 2012 and anticipates making a final decision 
by 29 March 2012. However, the anticipated timeline can change in line with the 
Merger Review Process Guidelines. To keep abreast of possible changes in 
relation to timing and to find relevant documents, market participants should visit 
the Mergers Register on the ACCC’s website at 
www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
4. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 
Background 
5. 
On 14 November 2011, the ACCC commenced a public review of the proposed 
acquisition after receiving a submission from Amcor seeking clearance from the 
ACCC for the proposed acquisition. 


 
 
2
The merger parties 
The acquirer - Amcor 
6. 
Amcor’s Flexibles Asia Pacific operating division produces a range of flexible 
packaging solutions. Amcor Flexibles Asia Pacific has 20 manufacturing 
operations in seven countries. In Australia, Amcor currently operates four flexible 
packaging manufacturing plants in Moorabbin and Preston (Victoria), Acacia 
Ridge (Qld), and Regents Park (NSW). Amcor manufactures and supplies a wide 
range of flexible packaging products to customers for food, beverage and other 
end use applications. It appears that Amcor is the largest supplier of flexible 
packaging in Australia (in terms of market share).   
The target - Aperio 
7. 
Aperio is a privately owned manufacturer of flexible packaging products. Aperio 
currently operates 12 manufacturing facilities across Australia and New Zealand, 
as well as a further flexible packaging manufacturing plant in Thailand. Aperio 
was established in 2005 when Catalyst acquired the Australasian packaging 
business of AEP Industries. Since 2005, Aperio has acquired other smaller 
flexible packaging suppliers including FPS International, Dynathene, Epic 
Packaging, Finewrap Group and Packsys. It appears that Aperio is among the 
three largest suppliers of flexible packaging in Australia (in terms of market 
share). 
Other industry participants 
Detmold 
8. 
Detmold Packaging is a privately owned Australian company that operates in a 
diverse range of packaging markets in Australia and overseas. The Detmold 
Consumer Goods Division (Detmold CGP) operates solely in Australia and 
competes directly with the merger parties. Detmold CGP has two production sites 
in Melbourne. Detmold CGP recently invested in new capital equipment and is 
now capable of supplying products to meet customer needs in snack foods, frozen 
foods, biscuits, breakfast cereal, ice cream, confectionary, pasta, coffee and other 
FMCG related applications.  
Integrated Packaging 
9. 
Integrated Packaging Pty Limited (Integrated Packaging) is a privately owned 
company and a large specialist manufacturer and distributor of stretch and shrink 
film wrap, mainly for use in industrial, agricultural and horticultural end-use 
categories. Integrated Packaging has four production sites in Australia and New 
Zealand. 


 
 
3
 
Sealed Air 
10. 
Sealed Air Australia (Holdings) Pty Ltd (Sealed Air) is a subsidiary of Sealed 
Air Corporation, a large U.S. based firm which generated revenue of $7.6 billion 
in 2010 and serves customers in 175 countries. Sealed Air’s operations in 
Australia include its Cryovac business. In relation to flexible packaging, Sealed 
Air appears to largely specialise in packaging for meats and other fresh foods.  
11. 
Other industry participants include local manufacturers such as Andrew Kohn, 
Apex Films, Perfection Packaging and Pope Packaging, and overseas 
manufacturers such as Daibochi, Huhtamaki, Jiapu and Nordenia. 
Areas of overlap 
12. 
The ACCC has identified the following areas of overlap between the merger 
parties: 
• supply of plain flexible packaging; and 
• supply of printed, laminated and converted flexible packaging (collectively, 
value-added flexible packaging). 
Market inquiries 
13. 
On 14 November 2011, the ACCC commenced market inquiries regarding the 
proposed acquisition. A range of interested parties provided responses, including 
other suppliers and customers. 
With/without test 
14. 
Section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (CCA) prohibits mergers 
or acquisitions that would have the effect or be likely to have the effect of 
substantially lessening competition in a market. In assessing a proposed 
acquisition pursuant to section 50 of the CCA, the ACCC considers the likely 
effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future competitive environment 
post-acquisition if the acquisition proceeds (the “with” position) to the likely 
future competitive environment if the acquisition does not proceed (the “without” 
position) to determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to substantially 
lessen competition in any relevant market.  
15. 
For the purposes of this Statement of Issues, the ACCC will at this stage assess 
the proposed acquisition against the status quo. Aperio has recently been the 
subject of a sale process. In the event that Amcor does not acquire Aperio, the 
current owners may retain the business and continue with their strategic plans or 
the business may be sold to another party.  


 
 
4
 
Market definition 
16. 
For the purposes of this Statement of Issues, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that 
the relevant market in which to consider the likely competition effects of the 
proposed acquisition is the national market for supply of flexible packaging. 
Flexible packaging 
Product dimension - plain, printed, laminated and converted flexible packaging 
17. 
Flexible packaging is supplied in a wide variety of forms including, for example, 
plain shrink film, printed polyethylene film and printed laminated rewind. 
Flexible packaging is used in a wide variety of industries including food, 
beverages, pharmaceuticals, chemicals, construction and agriculture.  
18. 
Plain film, such as shrink film used to wrap around heavy pallets for transport, is 
generally a commodity product. In contrast, printed flexible packaging is 
decorated to suit specific customers and lamination involves bonding layers of 
materials with an adhesive or resin to achieve product characteristics tailored to 
suit specific customers. These printing and laminating processes are directed at 
achieving particular physical packaging attributes such as aesthetic or print 
surface qualities (or, in other words, the product’s ‘look and feel’) and functional 
packaging attributes such as barrier characteristics, seal strength or ‘peelability’, 
and impact and puncture resistance. Specific examples of such flexible packaging 
may include potato crisp packets, chocolate wrappers, biscuit packets, cheese 
block wrap, beer packs, as well as packaging for frozen vegetables, nappies and 
toilet paper. 
19. 
Most flexible packaging is supplied on reels to be used within customers’ packing 
processes. Other flexible packaging is ‘converted’ for supply to customers as 
bags or pouches. Specific examples of such converted flexible packaging include 
stand-up pouches (for example, for pet foods), polyethylene sacks (for example, 
for potting mix) and wicketted bags (for example, for bread). 
20. 
Demand for plain and value-added flexible packaging predominantly arises from 
the fast moving consumer goods (FMCG) sector, including but not limited to 
food and beverage manufacturers. Supply of value-added flexible packaging to 
this FMCG packaging customer base appears to represent the principal area of 
overlap between the current operations of the merger parties and is therefore 
particularly relevant to the ACCC’s assessment of the proposed acquisition.  


 
 
5
 
21. 
FMCG packaging customers typically acquire high volumes of decorated and 
customised packaging for branded and mass-marketed consumer products sold 
through grocery channels, often involving large numbers of stock-keeping units 
(SKUs). Relevant end-use product categories for flexible packaging currently or 
potentially supplied by Amcor and Aperio include beverages, biscuits, cereals, 
confectionery, dairy products, frozen foods, nappies, pet foods, salty snack foods 
and toilet paper. Lead times, security of supply, quality and compliance with food 
safety standards or other recognised manufacturing standards (for example, 
Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points (HACCP) accreditation), as well as 
pricing, are generally important aspects of demand by FMCG packaging 
customers for flexible packaging.   
22. 
While other forms of packaging such as plastic cans, metal cans and folding 
cartons are utilised for packaging certain product lines or SKUs among some of 
the end-use product categories identified above, market inquiries indicate that 
such alternative forms of packaging are often complementary rather than 
substitutable. The ACCC therefore considers that there is likely to be discrete 
demand by customers for flexible packaging products.   
23. 
It appears that the first stage of manufacturing flexible packaging products 
generally utilises some common equipment and processes, typically blown film 
extrusion. The ACCC’s main focus in relation to defining the boundaries of the 
relevant market/s is to assess the extent to which there are any significant 
discontinuities in substitution between manufacture and supply of different types 
of flexible packaging – plain and value-added flexible packaging - with the latter 
being relatively differentiated and complex to produce, in terms of the various 
products’ technical characteristics and extent of production changeovers. 
Manufacture of value-added flexible packaging therefore appears to require 
greater expertise and additional equipment, and its supply to FMCG customers 
appears to involve closer relationships with customers and greater investment in 
customer support. The ACCC is therefore seeking comments on the potential for 
an existing manufacturer of plain flexible packaging to expand into manufacture 
of value-added flexible packaging, particularly for supply to FMCG packaging 
customers.  
24. 
This is particularly relevant to the ACCC’s assessment of the competition the 
merged firm would likely face from Integrated Packaging, which currently 
supplies plain flexible packaging on a large scale but does not, for example, 
manufacture highly decorated flexible packaging. The ACCC will similarly be 
considering the potential for Sealed Air to expand its range of flexible packaging, 
which currently appears focussed on fresh food applications, to compete against 
the merged firm for supply of highly decorated and laminated flexible packaging 
to FMCG packaging customers.  The ACCC will consider these issues in the 
context of the merged firm attempting to impose an increase in price. Factors 
informing the ACCC’s assessment will include costs and lead times associated 
with additional capital investment in equipment, marketing and customer 
relationship management. 


 
 
6
 
Geographic dimension 
25. 
Manufacturers and importers typically produce or warehouse flexible packaging 
at one or more Australian sites, from which they generally distribute nationally. 
Large contracts are typically negotiated on a national basis.  
Preliminary conclusion – relevant market 
26. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is therefore that the relevant market for assessing 
the proposed acquisition may be the national market for supply of flexible 
packaging, encompassing plain, printed, laminated and converted flexible 
packaging, but the ACCC has not reached a definitive view in relation to market 
definition at this stage. While the ACCC’s review is directed at the potential 
competition effects of the proposed acquisition across the full range of flexible 
packaging supply, the ACCC is currently particularly focussed on how supply of 
value-added flexible packaging to large FMCG packaging customers may be 
affected by the proposed acquisition.  
Statement of issues 
27. 
For the purposes of this Statement of Issues, the ACCC has identified the supply 
of flexible packaging as an issue that ‘may raise concerns’. 
Issues that may raise concerns 
Supply of flexible packaging 
28. 
In light of the ACCC’s market-place inquiries to date, the ACCC at this stage 
considers that the proposed acquisition may substantially lessen competition for 
the supply of flexible packaging products in Australia. The merger parties have 
submitted to the ACCC that there is limited overlap between their respective 
operations, in terms of products supplied, and that the proposed acquisition would 
not result in significant market concentration. However, the ACCC considers that 
the proposed acquisition would remove Amcor’s main competitor for supply of 
flexible packaging products in Australia.  
29. 
Amcor and Aperio are currently two of the three largest market participants. The 
ACCC’s market enquiries suggest that the merged firm would account for in 
excess of 30 per cent of Australian sales of flexible packaging. Also, the merged 
firm would account for approximately twice the sales volumes of the next largest 
market participant, Sealed Air. 
30. 
Moreover, Amcor and Aperio also appear to be each others’ closest competitors 
in the flexible packaging market, in terms of product range, local manufacturing 
presence and local service and support. Both focus their supply of flexible 
packaging towards FMCG packaging customers. Some FMCG packaging 
customers have identified to the ACCC how they trade Amcor and Aperio off 
against each other and have secured price reductions as a result.   


 
 
7
 
31. 
Consistent with this information from customers, the ACCC’s review to date 
suggests that there is extensive overlap between the merger parties across many 
significant market segments. For example, the merged firm would account for 
approximately 95 per cent of flexible packaging sold in Australia for both frozen 
food applications and personal and baby care applications. The merger parties are 
also both very significant actual and potential suppliers of flexible packaging sold 
in Australia for biscuit, bread, cereal, confectionery, ice cream and snack food 
applications. 
32. 
Some large-volume FMCG packaging customers of Amcor and/or Aperio have 
raised concerns with the ACCC that the proposed acquisition would result in 
insufficient choice of suppliers. Looking beyond the immediate removal of 
Aperio from the market, the ACCC is assessing the extent to which the proposed 
acquisition would allow the merged firm to increase prices or reduce service and 
innovation.  
33. 
Factors to which the ACCC will have particular regard in considering the likely 
competition effects of the proposed acquisition are potential new entry or 
expansion by existing domestic manufacturers, the actual and potential role of 
import competition, the extent to which customers could exercise countervailing 
power, and customer switching costs. These factors, about which the ACCC has 
to date received quite conflicting information, are discussed in turn below. The 
ACCC’s review will be especially informed by examples or objective evidence, 
including internal documents of suppliers or customers where possible, of the 
practical operation of these potential competitive constraints.  
Alternative domestic manufacturers - entry and expansion 
34. 
In the ACCC’s preliminary view, other local manufacturers of flexible packaging 
predominantly occupy market niches or currently operate on a relatively small 
scale. The ACCC is therefore concerned that they may not provide sufficient 
competitive constraints on the merged firm.  
35. 
The next largest market participant, Sealed Air, does not appear to currently 
compete in Australia against the merger parties in relation to many of the flexible 
packaging products for which there is very extensive overlap between the merger 
parties. Sealed Air appears to largely focus its supply of flexible packaging on 
meat and fresh food applications. While the ACCC has received some 
information indicating that Amcor or Aperio have bid against Sealed Air for 
certain business, in the ACCC’s market inquiries to date Sealed Air has not 
featured as a significant current competitor to the merger parties.  
36. 
In relation to Integrated Packaging, the ACCC understands that it specialises in 
shrink film and other plain flexible packaging that is mainly supplied to the 
logistics, agriculture, and horticulture industries. Accordingly, it appears that 
Integrated Packaging may only provide a limited competitive constraint on the 
merged firm. 


 
 
8
 
37. 
The ACCC is therefore concerned that the threat of losing sales to Sealed Air or 
Integrated Packaging may not be sufficient to prevent the merged firm from 
increasing prices. The ACCC is interested to receive further information about 
custom won/lost between the mergers parties and Sealed Air or Integrated 
Packaging. The ACCC is particularly interested in the ability of these existing 
market participants to expand their operations into supply of different forms of 
flexible packaging, the potential role of large FMCG packaging customers in 
sponsoring or supporting such expansion, and the credibility of the threat to the 
merged firm of such potential competition from Sealed Air and Integrated 
Packaging. 
38. 
The merger parties have submitted to the ACCC that other domestic 
manufacturers such as Detmold CGP and Andrew Kohn would also represent 
significant actual and potential competition to the merged firm. Submissions to 
the ACCC suggest that Detmold CGP and Andrew Kohn have invested 
significantly in recent years and supply some large FMCG packaging customers. 
Also, for example, Detmold CGP has flexographic and gravure printing capacity, 
equipment to manufacture cold-seal flexible packaging, and has HACCP 
accreditation. It has been submitted to the ACCC that Detmold CGP is in a strong 
position to be the number two provider of flexible packaging in Australia, post-
acquisition. However, Detmold CGP’s manufacturing scale and market share 
would be very small in comparison to the merged firm. 
39. 
The ACCC’s market inquiries to date have identified that some large FMCG 
packaging customers do not regard smaller-scale manufacturers as credible 
alternatives for high-volume supply across the range of flexible packaging 
products they require. Smaller-scale local manufacturers generally have limited 
capabilities in terms of production capacity, breadth of product line, customer 
support and ongoing innovation or product development.  
40. 
Flexible packaging is a relatively small-value input whose reliable supply, in 
terms of quality control and timely delivery, is critical to the production and 
marketing processes of FMCG packaging customers. These customers typically 
consider that smaller-scale flexible packaging manufacturers do not have the 
physical capacity or sufficiently flexible production profile to ensure appropriate 
security of supply. For example, some customers expect a supplier to have 
multiple domestic manufacturing sites for specific products in order to have 
contingency arrangements in the event of a supply disruption.  
41. 
However, it is apparent that these smaller domestic manufacturers actively tender 
for some FMCG contracts and that some large FMCG packaging customers 
source significant volumes of flexible packaging from smaller-scale domestic 
manufacturers. In particular, it has been submitted to the ACCC by the merger 
parties that FMCG packaging customers can and do utilise a dual-sourcing 
strategy in which only part of their demand is allocated to a smaller domestic 
manufacturer. Such dual-sourcing may serve as a significant competitive 
discipline on the merged firm. 


 
 
9
 
42. 
The ACCC is seeking further information about the role in the market of these 
smaller players and their ability to service large FMCG packaging customers. In 
particular, the ACCC is interested to understand the extent of custom that the 
merged firm would have to lose to other domestic manufacturers to defeat an 
attempted price increase by the merged firm, and the ability of other domestic 
manufacturers to supply such volumes. 
The ACCC invites comments from interested parties on the competitive constraint 
likely to be imposed on the merged firm by alternative domestic manufacturers 
The ACCC seeks further information on the role of alternative domestic 
manufacturers of flexible packaging, with particular reference to supply of value-
added flexible packaging to FMCG packaging customers, including: 
• their tendering activity, including relevant customers, products, volumes, dates 
and why the tender was successful or unsuccessful; 
• the products they supply and their contract volumes, and the proportion of total 
tenders / supply opportunities for which alternative domestic manufacturers are 
a competitive constraint; 
• their compliance with recognised manufacturing standards (for example, 
HACCP, British Retail Consortium standards, or other accreditations) or other 
quality control measures, and their contingency measures in the event of supply 
interruptions; 
• their production profiles, in terms of sites, equipment and excess capacity;  
• the types of products they could potentially supply, without significant new 
investment or lead times;  
• the preparedness of FMCG packaging customers to test supply from smaller 
scale domestic flexible packaging suppliers, including as part of a dual-sourcing 
strategy, and the factors they will consider in this regard; and 
• the investment and lead times associated with an existing domestic 
manufacturer significantly expanding their product range and manufacturing 
capacity (for example, introducing or adding printing, laminating, wicketting 
and/or cold-seal technology), and the potential role of customer sponsorship of 
such investment and expansion. 
43. 
The ACCC is also assessing the likelihood that a new entrant would commence 
manufacture and supply of flexible packaging in Australia in the event that the 
merged firm sought to increase prices or reduce service, and the potential for 
customer sponsorship of such new entry. Many of the factors discussed above are 
also relevant to the likelihood of new entry. 


 
 
10
 
The ACCC invites comments from interested parties on the likelihood of entry 
into the supply of flexible packaging 
The ACCC seeks further detailed information on the likelihood of other parties 
commencing supply of flexible packaging. In addition to the information already 
described above, the ACCC is interested in information regarding: 
• existing excess capacity among domestic manufacturers, which may represent a 
strategic barrier to entry; 
• growth or decline in market size; 
• the manufacturing scale and product range which would be required to provide 
effective competition to the merged firm; 
• nature and amounts of costs, as well as lead times, to commence supply; and 
• whether any other companies have expressed a willingness to supply, or an 
interest in supplying, flexible packaging. 
Actual and potential import competition  
44. 
Some large FMCG packaging customers submitted to the ACCC that imports 
provide only a weak source of competitive constraint on domestic supply. 
However, it has also been submitted to the ACCC that some customers merely 
prefer the status quo in which it is convenient to utilise a local manufacturer/s for 
supply of flexible packaging, rather than it being unviable or impractical for 
customers to switch to imports. It has been further submitted to the ACCC that 
imports of flexible packaging account for more than 30 per cent of the Australian 
market (including imports by the merger parties), and that flexible packaging 
prices in Australia have been declining in real terms. Nonetheless, the ACCC is 
concerned at this stage that the threat to the merged firm of losing sales to 
imports may only impact on a portion of its sales and may not therefore be 
sufficient to constrain the merged firm from an attempted price increase.  
45. 
Customers and suppliers generally observed that imports of flexible packaging 
have gained market share in recent years in the context of the higher Australian 
dollar, and that imported flexible packaging can be substantially cheaper than 
Australian supply due to lower overseas labour and raw material costs. The 
ACCC’s review to date suggests that some imported flexible packaging products 
can be 10 – 60 per cent cheaper than local supply.  


 
 
11
 
46. 
It therefore appears that large FMCG packaging customers generally pay a 
significant premium, compared to prices available from overseas manufacturers, 
for the benefits of supply from a local manufacturer. Imports of flexible 
packaging for supply to FMCG packaging customers may generally be limited to 
end-use products for which consumer demand is relatively consistent and 
predictable, packaging designs are amended relatively infrequently and/or SKU 
numbers are relatively limited. 
47. 
FMCG packaging customers generally amend packaging graphics frequently and 
for many SKUs. FMCG manufacturers commit to change-over dates with their 
grocery customers and must coordinate their packaging requirements with 
booking TV advertising and other mass marketing. As a consequence, there is a 
very significant service dimension to supply of printed and laminated flexible 
packaging to FMCG packaging customers. 
48. 
In this context, the main potential limits on import competition appear to be:  
• longer supply chain and lead times compared to locally sourced supply. 
Customers emphasised that demand for many of their products can fluctuate 
significantly over relatively short periods of time. Also, promotional activity, 
product launches and deletions occur frequently, resulting in new or varied 
packaging graphics for many other products. Promotional activity is initiated 
not only by FMCG manufacturers but also by their grocery customers. As 
such, FMCG manufacturers must be able to react to market developments and 
opportunities quickly. Some customers appear to expect that importing from 
Asia would add approximately 3 - 5 weeks to the supply chain, which may 
significantly impact the ability of FMCG manufacturers to serve their grocery 
customers, but the ACCC has received information from Amcor suggesting 
that importing may add only 2 weeks to lead times. Market enquiries suggest 
air freight is a very high-cost option that would not be used by a customer on 
a regular basis; and 
• security of supply. Some customers expressed concerns that the risks of 
shipping delays, late delivery or poor quality product are significant given the 
imperative to maintain consistent production and supply of their FMCGs on 
grocery shelves. These customers submitted to the ACCC that much of their 
demand for specific flexible packaging products would be insufficient to 
receive appropriate priority by large-scale Asian manufacturers, especially in 
relation to new products or in the event of a supply interruption. In these 
circumstances, overseas sources of supply cannot match the responsiveness 
and support provided by local packaging manufacturers. Some customers thus 
consider that these risks, as well as the higher storage and inventory costs 
associated with importation, outweigh potential cost savings from overseas 
manufacturers. 


 
 
12
 
49. 
Some additional potential difficulties with importing flexible packaging that 
customers have identified in the ACCC’s market inquiries to date include: 
• Australian Packaging Covenant. This voluntary covenant, which calls for 
reductions in the volume of packaging used by Australian companies, was 
raised in the ACCC’s market inquiries as a factor that limits the ability of an 
FMCG packaging customer to import printed flexible packaging. The ACCC 
understands that Asian flexible packaging manufacturers typically utilise 
gravure printing which can involve higher gauge material than flexographic 
printing of some products by Australian manufacturers, and which therefore 
involves using greater volumes of packaging inputs.  
However, it appears that flexographic printing of flexible packaging is 
available in Asia and also that, for example, gravure printed packaging for 
toilet paper, tortillas and pastas is imported in significant volumes for supply 
to Australian FMCG packaging customers (for example, from Great Wall in 
Malaysia and Positive Packaging in India). Accordingly, the ACCC does not 
at this stage consider the Australian Packaging Covenant to be a significant 
limit on import competition; and 
• ability to import cold-seal flexible packaging. Cold-seal technology allows 
product packaging to be sealed without heat, such as for temperature-sensitive 
confectionery and dairy products, and the ACCC received some information 
in market inquiries that importing cold-seal packaging is not viable or 
practical due to higher costs for refrigerated transport and shorter shelf-life. 
Importing cold-seal packaging to Australia is likely to require refrigerated 
transport, the cost of which may represent less than approximately 1 per cent 
of the average sales value of the relevant product and which therefore appears 
economical in the context of lower unit manufacturing costs for packaging 
supply from overseas (Asia). Also, the six month shelf-life of cold-seal 
packaging (from shipping to packaging) appears sufficient to manage 
importation logistics, although shipping cold-seal packaging involves some 
risk of product damage. The ACCC understands that cold-seal packaging for 
confectionery and dairy products is currently imported for supply to some 
Australian FMCG packaging customers (for example, from Jiapu in China), 
and is also transported between other international markets. The ACCC has 
also received submissions that other suppliers have successfully trialled 
importing cold-seal packaging to Australia and New Zealand. 
 


 
 
13
 
50. 
The ACCC notes that Amcor and, to a lesser extent, Aperio, import flexible 
packaging. Many large Australian FMCG packaging customers source flexible 
packaging from Amcor or Aperio via these suppliers’ overseas manufacturing 
plants. This sourcing appears to often occur due to demands placed on Amcor or 
Aperio by customers to satisfy their ‘low cost country’ (LCC) procurement 
policies, or as a benchmarking measure by which customers can evaluate the 
competitiveness of local supply. The ACCC is interested to understand whether 
customers secure any unique benefits from importing products via one of the 
merger parties versus sourcing imported products from an overseas manufacturer 
that is independent of the merger parties. 
51. 
It has been submitted to the ACCC that some overseas manufacturers have 
warehousing facilities and sales representation in Australia that significantly 
address the logistics of importing. Relevant overseas manufacturers with an 
Australian presence are Diabochi (Malaysia), Huhtamaki (Vietnam, India and 
elsewhere), Jiapu (China), Mayor (China), Nordenia (Malaysia) and Thriving 
(Taiwan). These overseas manufacturers typically have significant customers 
such as General Mills, Kraft, Mars, Pepsico and Wrigley and it appears that 
contracts often worth $3-5 million have been lost by domestic manufacturers to 
overseas manufacturers in recent years. However, the ACCC notes that individual 
importers typically have market shares in Australia of approximately 2% or less. 
The ACCC is interested to receive further information about customers’ 
experience of importing, and the extent to which these overseas manufacturers 
can offer account management and technical support to Australian customers.  
52. 
The ACCC understands that current imports of flexible packaging include both 
‘short-run’ and ‘long-run’ lines. The ACCC is interested to receive further 
information from customers and suppliers as to whether importing involves 
relatively lower logistical risks and/or relatively lower costs for long runs or short 
runs of flexible packaging, and whether imported supply is likely to be an 
effective competitive constraint in relation to customers’ demand for short and 
long runs of flexible packaging. Further information is also required as to the 
relevant volumes and/or other factors which distinguish long runs from short 
runs, and the proportions of packaging demand by customers accounted for by 
long runs and short runs. 
53. 
The ACCC is also considering the extent to which customers benchmark 
domestic prices to import prices, such that imports may act as a competitive 
constraint even in circumstances where a customers does not actually import 
significant volumes. It appears many customers conduct regional tender processes 
or benchmarking exercises to test the competitiveness of local supply. It has been 
submitted to the ACCC that Arnott’s, George Weston Foods, Goodman Fielder, 
Kellogg’s, Kimberly-Clark, Kraft, Mars, Nestle, Norco, Pepsico, SCA, Unilever 
and Wrigley’s have benchmarked local supply against imports in some fashion in 
recent years. 


 
 
14
 
54. 
The ACCC is seeking further information, preferably with supporting evidence 
(such as internal documents of customers or suppliers), on the competitive 
constraint imposed by imports of flexible packaging on domestic supply. The 
ACCC’s review will be especially informed by examples in recent years of 
customers switching significant parts of their demand from Amcor or Aperio to 
an independent overseas supplier, or examples of customers utilising tender 
processes and benchmarking exercises (against imports) to effectively constrain 
pricing by Amcor or Aperio. Such examples or objective evidence should identify 
the relevant players, products, volumes and dates. 
The ACCC invites comments from interested parties on the competitive constraint 
likely to be provided by imports of flexible packaging 
In addition to the information already described above, the ACCC seeks further 
information and where possible internal documents regarding: 
• where relevant, how customers and suppliers decide which products they will 
import; 
• the nature and amount of costs associated with importing; 
• the extent to which imported products have significantly longer lead times than 
domestically manufactured products and, if so, the impact of longer lead times 
on a customer’s production and marketing processes; 
• whether there are quality issues associated with imported products, including 
recent examples of quality concerns or the basis upon which quality concerns 
are held; 
• the account management and technical support provided by overseas 
manufacturers to Australian customers; 
• examples in recent years of customers switching significant parts of their 
demand from Amcor or Aperio to an independent overseas supplier, how the 
logistics and lead times associated with importing have been addressed, and the 
cost savings or problems customers have experienced in switching to an 
overseas manufacturer; and 
• the extent to which customers seek tenders or quotes from overseas 
manufacturers, and benchmark domestic prices against overseas prices as part 
of their procurement process. 


 
 
15
 
Countervailing power 
55. 
The merger parties have submitted to the ACCC that large FMCG packaging 
customers would have the ability to exercise considerable bargaining power 
against the merged firm. The merged firm would typically supply between one 
and three main domestic customers in most end-use product categories, such as 
for alcoholic beverages, biscuits, bread, cereals, confectionery, frozen foods, 
nappies, salty snack foods and toilet paper. For example, customers include 
Arnott’s, Carlton United Brewers, General Mills, George Weston Foods, 
Goodman Fielder, Kellogg’s, Kimberly-Clark, Kraft, Lion, Mars, McCain’s, 
Nestle, PepsiCo, Sanitarium, SCA and Simplot. 
56. 
These high-volume customers generally have related companies in overseas 
markets through which they conduct regional tender processes and/or source raw 
material cost information or final product pricing, which they can utilise to 
benchmark alternative sources of supply. They commonly also have professional 
buyers with relevant technical knowledge in relation to packaging products. As a 
consequence, these large FMCG packaging customers are typically well-
informed in relation to their purchasing of flexible packaging. Large FMCG 
packaging customers also often have sophisticated procurement practices such as 
accreditation for potential new suppliers to control quality and security of supply 
risks, established purchasing policies such as LCC sourcing, and processes for 
managing supply chain logistics. 
57. 
The ACCC understands that contracts for supply to FMCG packaging customers 
are typically 2-3 years, allowing customers to regularly benchmark alternative 
suppliers and potentially switch at least part of their demand to a new supplier. 
Contracts sometimes include ‘meet the market’ clauses by which a customer can 
secure more favourable pricing from an incumbent supplier in the event that the 
customer finds lower prices from an alternative domestic or overseas supplier. 
The ACCC is interested to receive further information or objective evidence, such 
as internal documents of suppliers or customers, identifying the extent to which 
FMCG packaging customers utilise ‘meet the market’ clauses and LCC sourcing 
to constrain pricing for flexible packaging.  
58. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that any countervailing power of such large 
FMCG packaging customers, which may provide a further constraint on pricing 
by the merged firm, would be most likely to arise from a potential for customer 
sponsorship of investment and expansion by flexible packaging suppliers (such as 
Sealed Air), or possibly by benchmarking against supply from independent 
overseas manufacturers. These issues have been discussed earlier in this 
Statement of Issues.   


 
 
16
 
Customer switching costs 
59. 
The ACCC considers that smaller suppliers, new entrants and imports would only 
represent credible competitive threats to the merged firm if sufficient demand 
from customers could readily switch to alternative domestic or overseas sources 
of supply in order to defeat an attempted price increase by the merged firm. 
Accordingly, an important further factor in assessing how large FMCG packaging 
customers may resist such price increases by the merged firm is the costs and lead 
times for such customers to switch to alternative local and/or overseas suppliers.  
60. 
The practical ability for customers to switch suppliers appears especially relevant 
to FMCG packaging customers’ demand for value-added flexible packaging, 
given that the graphics and other aesthetic and functional characteristics of these 
packaging products are customised to suit the branding of specific products and 
often involve large numbers of SKUs. The costs and lead times associated with 
switching include auditing manufacturing facilities to ensure quality control (for 
example, compliance with HACCP or British Retail Consortium standards), 
product trials and artwork costs for each SKU. Switching to a new supplier for a 
relatively complex product and for which the supplier must install new capital 
equipment may take approximately 18 months. However, it has been submitted to 
the ACCC that customer switching can commonly occur within 3 – 6 months 
from the completion of tender processes, and that customers can utilise dual-
sourcing and switch only part of their demand away from an incumbent supplier. 
Some overseas manufacturers of flexible packaging will have qualified as 
approved suppliers to the overseas related companies of Australian customers, 
which will facilitate switching.  
61. 
Recent examples of short lead times for switching suppliers of flexible packaging 
appear to include printed or laminated flexible packaging for nappies, pasta and 
salty snack foods, as well as plain shrink film for pallets of beer and wine bottles. 
The ACCC is interested to receive further examples and objective information, 
including internal documents of suppliers or customers, regarding switching costs 
and lead times and the incidence of customers switching or threatening to switch 
at least part of their demand to alternative local or overseas sources of supply. 
ACCC’s future steps 
62. 
The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers market responses 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
63. 
The ACCC now seeks submissions from interested parties on each of the issues 
identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that may be relevant 
to the ACCC’s assessment of this matter. 


 
 
17
 
64. 
Submissions are to be received by the ACCC no later than 8 March 2012. The 
ACCC will consider the submissions received from the market and the merger 
parties in light of the issues identified above and will, in conjunction with 
information and submissions already provided by the merger parties, come to a 
final view. 
65. 
The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 29 March 2012. 
However the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Merger Review 
Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose of 
explaining the ACCC’s final view may be published following the ACCC’s 
public announcement. 
 
