 
Public Competition Assessment 
19 November 2009 
Thomson Reuters (Professional) Australia Limited - proposed 
acquisition of Ernst & Young’s tax compliance software products 
business 
 
A 
Introduction 
1. 
On 14 October 2009, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission 
(ACCC) announced its decision to oppose the proposed acquisition of Ernst & 
Young’s tax compliance software products business by Thomson Reuters 
(Professional) Australia Limited (proposed acquisition). The ACCC was of the 
view that the proposed acquisition would be likely to have the effect of 
substantially lessening competition in the national markets for the supply of 
income tax compliance software and for the supply of fringe benefits tax (FBT) 
compliance software in contravention of s. 50 of the Trade Practices Act 1974 
(the Act). 
2. 
The ACCC formed its view on the basis of the information provided by the 
merger parties and information arising from its market inquiries. This Public 
Competition Assessment outlines the basis on which the ACCC has reached its 
decision on the proposed acquisition, subject to confidentiality considerations. 
B 
Public Competition Assessment 
3. 
To provide an enhanced level of transparency and procedural fairness in its 
decision making process, the ACCC issues a Public Competition Assessment for 
all transaction proposals where: 
 a merger is opposed; 
 a merger is subject to enforceable undertakings; 
 the merger parties seek such disclosure; or 
 a merger is not opposed but raises important issues that the ACCC considers 
should be made public. 
4. 
This Public Competition Assessment has been issued because the proposed 
acquisition was opposed by the ACCC. 


Thomson Reuters (Professional) Australia Limited - proposed acquisition of Ernst & Young’s 
tax compliance software products business 
-2- 
5. 
By issuing Public Competition Assessments, the ACCC aims to provide the 
public with a better understanding of the ACCC’s analysis of various markets and 
the associated merger and competition issues. It also alerts the public to the 
circumstances where the ACCC’s assessment of the competition conditions in 
particular markets is changing, or likely to change, because of developments.  
6. 
Each Public Competition Assessment is specific to the particular transaction 
under review by the ACCC. While some transaction proposals may involve the 
same or related markets, it should not be assumed that the analysis and decision 
outlined in one Public Competition Assessment will be conclusive of the ACCC’s 
view in respect of other transaction proposals, as each matter will be considered 
on its own merits.  
7. 
Many of the ACCC’s decisions will involve consideration of both non-
confidential and confidential information provided by the merger parties and 
market participants. In order to maintain the confidentiality of particular 
information, Public Competition Assessments do not contain any confidential 
information or its sources. While the ACCC aims to provide an appropriately 
detailed explanation of the basis for the ACCC decision, where this is not 
possible, maintaining confidentiality will be the ACCC’s paramount concern, and 
accordingly a Public Competition Assessment may not definitively explain all 
issues and the ACCC’s analysis of such issues. 
C 
The parties 
The acquirer: Thomson Reuters (Professional) Australia Limited 
8. 
Thomson Reuters (Professional) Australia Limited (Thomson Reuters) is a 
wholly-owned subsidiary of Thomson Reuters Corporation, a corporation based 
in the US. Thomson Reuters Corporation currently has a presence in 93 countries 
and employs approximately 50,000 employees. 
9. 
Thomson Reuters Corporation is a global provider of technology and integrated, 
information management and publishing solutions for tax and corporate 
professionals in accounting firms, corporations, law firms, government, and for 
academics and students. Thomson Reuters Corporation was formed following 
Thomson’s acquisition of Reuters in 2008.  
10. 
In Australia, Thomson Reuters currently supplies the following tax software 
products: PowerTax; N-ABLE; Company Tax Kit; PowerTax FBT; FBT 
Simplifier; FBT Toolkit; and Tax Effect Accounting Toolkit. Table 1 provides 
further detail of these products. 
11. 
Thomson Reuters acquired the majority of its tax software products from three of 
the ‘big four’ accounting firms in the last two years. Specifically: 
 PowerTax and PowerTax FBT from PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) in 2007; 
and 


Thomson Reuters (Professional) Australia Limited - proposed acquisition of Ernst & Young’s 
tax compliance software products business 
-3- 
 N-ABLE, FBT Simplifier and Company Tax Kit from Allume Technology 
Partners Pty Ltd (a joint venture between Deloitte and KPMG) (Allume) in 
2008. 
12. 
The ACCC understands that these accounting firms sold their products to 
Thomson Reuters primarily because they considered it was not their core 
business to be a software provider. Another reason given was their increasingly 
limited ability to sell tax compliance software products to their audit clients 
following the introduction of auditor independence rules in the United States and 
other countries around the world.  
13. 
Thomson Reuters’ other tax software product —the Tax Effect Accounting 
Toolkit — was developed and authored by Moore Stephens on behalf of Thomson 
Reuters.  
The target: Ernst & Young  
14. 
Ernst & Young is a member company of Ernst & Young Global Limited (EYG), 
a UK private company limited by guarantee. EYG is a global professional 
services firm providing advisory services across core service lines of assurance, 
advisory and taxation.  
15. 
In Australia, Ernst & Young currently supplies the following tax compliance 
software products: Tax Integrator, Global Integrator and FBT Organiser. Table 1 
provides further detail of these products.  
Other industry participants 
16. 
Moore Stephens is a national network of six affiliated independent firms 
providing business advice and chartered accounting services. Moore Stephens 
supplies a software product for income tax compliance activities called Complete 
Tax Solutions.  
17. 
The National Tax & Accountants’ Association (NTAA) is a not-for-profit 
organisation that provides support to its 7,000 member firms, including practical 
tax advice to assist taxation practitioners and businesses. The NTAA supplies a 
software product for FBT compliance activities called FBT Return Preparer.  
18. 
A number of other organisations supply suites of accounting and practice 
management software which include products for the preparation of income tax 
and, in some cases, FBT returns. This software is targeted to tax and accounting 
professionals (for predominantly small to medium enterprise (SME) clients). The 
suppliers include MYOB, CCH Australia, Reckon Group and Sage Software 
Australia.  
 


Thomson Reuters (Professional) Australia Limited - proposed acquisition of Ernst & Young’s 
tax compliance software products business 
-4- 
Table 1 
Tax software products of the merger parties 
Supplier 
Name of product 
Description 
Income tax software products 
PowerTax 
• Developed by PwC and acquired by Thomson 
Reuters in 2007 
• Has tax return, tax effect accounting and trusts 
modules 
• Can be hosted on a customer’s server or 
intranet or on the web 
• Also available in ‘Lite’ version on CD-ROM. 
 N-ABLE 
• Developed by Allume, acquired by Thomson 
Reuters in 2008 
• Has tax return and tax effect accounting 
modules 
• Can be hosted on intranet or the web 
Company Tax Kit 
• Developed by Allume, acquired by Thomson 
Reuters in 2008 
• Prepares tax returns, no tax effect accounting 
functionality 
• Spreadsheet based product  
Thomson Reuters 
Tax Effect Accounting Toolkit 
• Authored by Moore Stephens for Thomson 
Reuters in 2005 
• Does not prepare tax returns, tax effect 
accounting only 
Tax Integrator 
• Similar functionality to PowerTax / N-ABLE 
(tax effect accounting and tax returns) plus 
electronic lodgement capability 
• Can be hosted on customer’s server or 
intranet or on the web 
Ernst & Young 
Global Integrator 
• Caters for multinational companies with 
multi-jurisdictional reporting requirements 
FBT software products 
PowerTax FBT 
• Developed by PwC and acquired by Thomson 
Reuters in 2007 
• Prepares and produces FBT return 
• Spreadsheet-based 
FBT Simplifier 
• Developed by Allume, acquired by Thomson 
Reuters in 2008 
• Prepares and produces FBT return 
• Database configuration 
Thomson Reuters 
FBT Toolkit 
• Authored by Moore Stephens for Thomson 
Reuters 
• Prepares and produces FBT return 
• Spreadsheet-based 
Ernst & Young 
FBT Organiser 
• Prepares and produces FBT return 
• Spreadsheet based 
 


Thomson Reuters (Professional) Australia Limited - proposed acquisition of Ernst & Young’s 
tax compliance software products business 
-5- 
D 
Industry background 
Tax compliance activities  
19. 
Companies undertake a range of tax compliance activities which include:  
 gathering, analysing and interpreting financial data for tax planning and 
provisioning (including tax effect accounting1);  
 where there are multiple group entities – consolidating financial data into one 
reporting stream (for the purpose of income tax returns and reporting, a group 
of affiliated companies are able to file a single consolidated tax return, rather 
than each entity filing a separate tax return) ; and  
 preparing for external tax reporting requirements (such as lodging income tax 
returns with the Australian Taxation Office.  
20. Two significant types of taxes payable by companies are income tax and FBT, as 
below:  
 income tax is paid on a company’s taxable income. If a company has an 
income tax liability, it is required to lodge a return for the financial year 
typically ending 30 June; and  
 FBT is paid on certain benefits employers provide to their employees or their 
employees’ associates in place of salary or wages. If a company has an FBT 
liability, it is required to lodge a return for the FBT year typically ending 
31 March.  
Options available to companies conducting tax compliance activities 
21. 
In conducting tax compliance activities, companies can potentially choose from 
the following options:  
 undertake all activities in-house (using tax compliance software or in-house 
developed tax compliance solutions); or  
 outsource all activities to a professional advisor, usually one of the ‘big four’ 
accounting firms in the case of large companies (in which case advisors might 
use tax compliance software); or  
 undertake some activities in-house and outsource some activities, in which 
case the degree of involvement of the professional advisor varies, from 
undertaking some of the initial calculations through to reviewing a draft 
return prepared by the company.  
                                               
1 Tax effect accounting is a method of bringing income tax expenses into account during the period in 
which the expenses are incurred, rather than the period in which the income tax is payable. 


Thomson Reuters (Professional) Australia Limited - proposed acquisition of Ernst & Young’s 
tax compliance software products business 
-6- 
Tax compliance software 
22. 
The software discussed in this section is referred to in this Public Competition 
Assessment as “tax compliance software”. 
23. 
A number of software products are available to manage the income tax 
compliance requirements of companies. Software products that currently provide 
such functionality are PowerTax and N-ABLE (supplied by Thomson Reuters), 
Tax Integrator (supplied by Ernst & Young) and Complete Tax Solutions 
(supplied by Moore Stephens).  
24. 
These products provide companies with what is described as an ‘end to end’ 
process, enabling them to attend to income tax compliance activities and 
simplifying the process of internal and/or external review of financial reports. 
These products are also used by the ‘big four’ accounting firms in providing tax 
advisory services to some of their clients (generally to their larger clients).  
25. 
Inquiries indicated that the core functionality offered by income tax compliance 
software is likely to include all four of the following: 
 automated data input (including mapping to and from Enterprise Resource 
Planning (ERP)/financial systems or uploading from Microsoft Excel); 
 tax effect accounting (; 
 multi-entity consolidation/aggregation calculations (including for 
consolidated tax return preparation); and 
 company tax return form generation. 
26. 
These products are most often supplied in an ‘off the shelf’ format, although 
some can be customised for a particular company’s requirements. The products 
are supplied under licence with many contracts being 3 years in duration with 
licence fees paid annually. The licence fee tends to include software support and 
some training. 
27. 
For FBT compliance, software includes PowerTax FBT, FBT Simplifier and FBT 
Toolkit (supplied by Thomson Reuters), FBT Organiser (supplied by Ernst & 
Young) and FBT Return Preparer (supplied by the NTAA). 
28. 
Similar to income tax compliance, these products provide a highly automated 
process for customers. Product features tend to include: 
 automated data input and rollover (some products only have manual data 
input); 
 multi-user access; 
 export functions, such as exporting data to payroll systems; and 
 capability to aggregate and report FBT details in a variety of ways, such as by 
type of benefit, by employee, by employer/group/division, for both external 
and internal reporting. 


Thomson Reuters (Professional) Australia Limited - proposed acquisition of Ernst & Young’s 
tax compliance software products business 
-7- 
Other tax compliance solutions 
Other software 
29. 
There are other types of software that can be used by a company or an 
accountant/tax advisor as part of the compliance process for income tax and FBT 
— tax return software, ERP modules and general book keeping software.   
30. 
Tax return software, such as APS Advance Tax, MYOB Tax (formerly Solution 6), 
Sage Handisoft’s HandiTax and CCH’s ProSystem Tax, is primarily marketed to 
accountants. Thomson Reuters also supplies a tax return software product called 
Company Tax Kit which is primarily marketed to companies. 
31. 
As the name suggests, this type of software is used primarily to prepare tax 
returns. The software can also be used to produce some reports. Some software 
allows tax return forms to be submitted electronically. 
32. 
Tax return software that is marketed to accountants tends to have additional 
functionalities that assist accountants with the management of their practices (the 
software forms part of an accounting and practice management software suite). 
Accountants primarily use this software for their clients, and clients provide the 
input data in compatible files (including book keeping software files – discussed 
below).  
33. 
Tax return software does not have tax effect accounting functionality or 
consolidation/aggregation functionality and has less reporting functionality 
compared with tax compliance software. In contrast to tax compliance software, 
this type of software does not provide companies with an ‘end to end’ process, as 
described above. 
34. 
General book keeping software includes Quicken and MYOB Accounting. Such 
software allows SMEs to prepare basic records including journals, profit and loss 
statements, trial balances, and can be used to prepare some tax statements such as 
Business Activity Statements. However, this software cannot prepare tax returns 
or conduct tax effect accounting activities.  
35. 
Many large companies use modules in ERP systems, such as those supplied by 
SAP or Oracle, for numerous business needs. However, no modules have been 
specifically designed for tax compliance activities and these systems are 
considered to be unsuitable for this purpose by market participants.  
In-house developed tax compliance solutions 
36. 
In-house developed tax compliance solutions are often based on spreadsheet 
applications (e.g. Microsoft Excel) or sometimes using other methods such as 
database platforms. These are usually developed internally, although some 
companies engage external service providers to develop customised solutions. 


Thomson Reuters (Professional) Australia Limited - proposed acquisition of Ernst & Young’s 
tax compliance software products business 
-8- 
37. 
All functionality to conduct tax compliance activities needs to be built into the 
solution by a company or by a software consultant at the request of a company. 
Given this, the functionality built into individual in-house solutions tends to vary 
significantly — from the quite simplistic (only allowing for basic aggregation and 
generation of totals to load into the tax return) to the more sophisticated (allowing 
for full tax compliance including a range of reporting functionality, complex 
consolidation functionality, sophisticated tax effect accounting, foreign exchange 
conversions, depreciation, R&D calculations etc.).  
38. 
However, in-house developed tax compliance solutions generally have some 
functional limitations, e.g. spreadsheet based solutions cannot automatically 
generate/populate a tax return form and tax returns cannot be submitted 
electronically.  
E 
ACCC review timeline 
39. 
The following table outlines the timeline of key events in this matter. 
Date 
Event 
06-Jul-2009 
 
27-Jul-2009 
 
19-Aug-2009 
 
 
27-Aug-2009 
 
 
01-Sep-2009 
 
 
 
10-Sep-2009 
 
24-Sep-2009 
 
 
05-Oct-2009 
 
 
 
 
08-Oct-2009 
 
 
14-Oct-2009 
ACCC commenced review under the Merger Review Process Guidelines. 
 
Closing date for submissions from interested parties. 
 
ACCC published a Statement of Issues outlining preliminary competition 
concerns. 
 
ACCC requested further information from merger parties. ACCC 
timeline suspended pending receipt of this information. 
 
Former proposed date of 23 September 2009 for announcement of 
ACCC's findings, amended to allow the merger parties to provide 
further information. 
 
Closing date for submissions relating to Statement of Issues. 
 
ACCC received further information from the merger parties. ACCC 
timeline recommenced. 
 
Former proposed date of 7 October 2009 for announcement of ACCC's 
findings amended in response to a request by Thomson Reuters 
to allow it additional time to provide further information to 
the ACCC. ACCC timeline suspended pending receipt of this information. 
 
ACCC received further information from Thomson Reuters. ACCC 
timeline recommenced. 
 
ACCC announced it would oppose the proposed acquisition. 
 


Thomson Reuters (Professional) Australia Limited - proposed acquisition of Ernst & Young’s 
tax compliance software products business 
-9- 
F 
Market inquiries 
40. 
The ACCC conducted extensive market inquiries in relation to the proposed 
acquisition. A range of interested parties provided responses including 
competitors, potential market entrants, companies that use the tax compliance 
software products for their tax compliance function, companies that do not use 
the tax compliance software products and other interested third parties. 
G 
Statement of Issues 
41. 
On 19 August 2009, the ACCC published a Statement of Issues regarding the 
proposed acquisition. The Statement of Issues sought further comments from 
market participants on the likely market definition identified by the ACCC and on 
the ACCC’s preliminary view that the proposed acquisition:  
 was likely to substantially lessen competition in the national market for the 
supply of income tax compliance software to large companies; and  
 may raise substantial concerns in the national market for the supply of FBT 
compliance software.  
42. 
The Statement of Issues is available on the ACCC’s website at 
www.accc.gov.au/statementsofissues. 
H 
With/without test  
43. 
In assessing a merger pursuant to s. 50 of the Act, the ACCC must consider the 
effects of the transaction by comparing the likely future state of competition if the 
transaction proceeds (the “with” or “factual” position) to the likely future state of 
competition if the transaction does not proceed (the “without” or “counterfactual” 
position).  
44. 
Following extensive inquiries, the ACCC was of the view that, without the 
merger, it was likely that the tax compliance software products business currently 
operated by Ernst & Young would continue as a competitive presence in the 
market. Accordingly, the ACCC adopted this view as part of the counterfactual in 
applying the with/without test in this matter.  
I 
Market definition 
45. 
The ACCC considered that the relevant markets in this matter were: 
 the national market for the supply of income tax compliance software; and 
 the national market for the supply of FBT compliance software. 


Thomson Reuters (Professional) Australia Limited - proposed acquisition of Ernst & Young’s 
tax compliance software products business 
-10- 
Supply of income tax compliance software market 
Geographic dimension 
46. 
Given that income tax software products are developed specifically for the 
requirements of the Australian taxation regime and are marketed and sold to 
customers nationally, the ACCC took the view that the geographic dimension of 
the market for the supply of income tax compliance software was national.  
Product dimension  
47. 
In the Statement of Issues, the relevant income tax product market was identified 
with reference to large companies. The ACCC’s preliminary view was that the 
software products of the merger parties and Moore Stephens constituted possible 
substitution options for large companies because these products offered the core 
functionality required by such companies. After further consideration, the ACCC 
considered it was more appropriate to identify the market based on the core 
functionality provided by the income tax compliance software products.   
48. 
On the basis of extensive market inquiries, the ACCC considered that the core 
functionality offered by income tax compliance software is likely to include all of 
the following elements: 
1. automated data input (including mapping to and from ERP/financial systems 
or uploading from Microsoft Excel); 
2. tax effect accounting; 
3. multi-entity consolidation/aggregation calculations (including for 
consolidated tax return preparation); and 
4. company tax return form generation. 
49. 
In identifying the scope of the relevant market, the ACCC considered whether the 
market should be limited to income tax compliance software, or defined more 
broadly to encompass other tax compliance solutions such as tax return software, 
ERP systems, general book keeping software, and in-house developed solutions. 
In particular, the ACCC considered whether or not other tax compliance solutions 
were sufficiently close demand-side or supply-side substitutes to be included in 
the same market as income tax compliance software. 
Demand-side substitutability 
50. 
The ACCC analysed in considerable depth the extent to which income tax 
compliance software and other tax compliance solutions could be considered 
close substitutes on the demand-side. The ACCC sought a large amount of 
information from both the merger parties as well as a large number of companies 
in relation to these issues. 
51. 
Market inquiries demonstrated that the majority of companies did not consider 
other software products (that is, tax return software, ERP systems or general book 
keeping software), in-house developed solutions or outsourcing to be close 
substitutes for income tax compliance software. 


Thomson Reuters (Professional) Australia Limited - proposed acquisition of Ernst & Young’s 
tax compliance software products business 
-11- 
52. 
Inquiries revealed that using in-house solutions for income tax compliance 
involves a manual and lengthy process. There can be costs and difficulties in 
initially building the solution, and continuing difficulties in periodically updating 
the solution to ensure consistency with changes in complex tax legislation. It was 
found that data integrity issues could also pose significant risks.   While these 
difficulties and risks can be minimised by a company, this would require a 
sizeable investment  in terms of time and money. 
53. 
Many customers considered that outsourcing their tax compliance activities to a 
professional advisor was not a viable option because the cost differential between 
tax compliance software and outsourcing was considered to be significant. 
Although some customers did consider outsourcing their tax compliance 
activities to be an alternative to using income tax compliance software, the 
ACCC found that  professional advisors in fact use income tax compliance 
software in undertaking tax compliance activities for the majority of clients. 
Therefore, outsourcing still involves the use of income tax compliance software. 
54. 
Analysis of actual switching between solutions further supported the view that 
the other income tax compliance solutions were not close substitutes to income 
tax compliance software.  
55. 
It was found that, over the past two years, only a small proportion of customers 
switched from their existing income tax compliance software. Of the customers 
that switched from income tax compliance software, most moved across to an 
alternative income tax compliance software product. Some customers switched to 
an in-house solution; only a very small number of customers switched to an 
outsourced solution. It was found that not one customer switched from income 
tax compliance software to income tax return software, ERP modules or other 
general book keeping software.  
56. 
Generally, switching from income tax compliance software to another solution 
resulted from a change in the client’s functional needs. A small number of 
customers that moved to an in-house solution cited that the income tax 
compliance software could not meet their specific needs. The majority of 
customers that moved to an in-house solution noted that income tax compliance 
software was too expensive and/or too complex for their relatively simple tax 
needs. Some of these customers had recently downsized operations whilst others 
had simply been trialling the income tax compliance software. Some of these 
customers recognised that, if their tax needs were more complex, in-house 
solutions would not have been a possible alternative.  
57. 
Market inquiries indicated that some switching from in-house solutions to income 
tax compliance software did occur. 


Thomson Reuters (Professional) Australia Limited - proposed acquisition of Ernst & Young’s 
tax compliance software products business 
-12- 
58. 
The ACCC found that switching from an in-house solution to income tax 
compliance software generally happened as a one-off change, reflecting 
technological advances, the growth or increasing complexity of the company or 
the increasing complexity of tax legislation. The ACCC found that there was 
some suggestion of asymmetric substitution between in-house solutions and 
income tax compliance software. That is, income tax compliance software may, 
to some extent, provide a substitute for users of in-house solutions (hence the 
observation of some actual switching of customers from in-house solutions to tax 
compliance software). However, for users of tax compliance software, an 
in-house solution was not a close substitute due to the factors outlined above and 
because those customers had not maintained the knowledge and skills needed for 
an in-house solution.  
Supply-side substitutability  
59. 
On the supply side, the ACCC explored whether other software providers could 
build further functionality into their respective products and market those 
products quickly and without significant investment to supply an income tax 
compliance software product. 
60. 
Market inquiries with providers of tax return and other software revealed that it 
would take a considerable amount of time to develop and integrate the additional 
functionality required (such as tax effect accounting functionality) to develop 
those products to a point where they could provide similar functionality to 
income tax compliance software. Providers of other software products also noted 
that the investment associated with the marketing efforts would be significant. 
61. 
The ACCC found that suppliers of other software products could not quickly and 
without significant investment, build and supply income tax compliance software 
products, and accordingly, other software products were not considered to be 
close substitutes on the supply-side. 
Conclusion  
62. 
The ACCC found that there were no close substitutes on the demand-side for 
income tax compliance software products. It was found that products such as tax 
return software and in-house solutions were not close substitutes.  
63. 
The ACCC found that there were no close substitutes on the supply-side for 
income tax compliance software products as suppliers of other software products 
could not quickly and without significant investment build and supply income tax 
compliance software products.  
64. 
On this basis, the ACCC concluded that the relevant market was the national 
market for the supply of income tax compliance software.  


Thomson Reuters (Professional) Australia Limited - proposed acquisition of Ernst & Young’s 
tax compliance software products business 
-13- 
Supply of FBT compliance software market 
Geographic dimension 
65. 
Market inquiries revealed that FBT compliance software products are specific to 
the requirements of the Australian taxation regime and are marketed and sold to 
customers nationally. Accordingly, the ACCC took the view that the geographic 
dimension of this market was national.  
Product dimension  
66. 
On the basis of market inquiries, the ACCC found that the core functionality 
offered by FBT compliance software is that it provides for the data entry process, 
and the calculation and reporting of FBT benefits for the purpose of FBT 
compliance.  
67. 
In identifying the scope of the relevant market, the ACCC considered whether the 
market should be limited to FBT compliance software, or defined more broadly 
to encompass other FBT compliance solutions such as in-house solutions and 
outsourcing FBT compliance to professional advisors. In particular, the ACCC 
considered whether or not other solutions were sufficiently close demand-side or 
supply-side substitutes to be included in the same market as FBT compliance 
software. 
Demand-side substitutability  
68. 
In identifying the scope of the product dimension of this market, the ACCC 
explored the extent to which other FBT compliance solutions (such as in-house 
solutions or outsourcing) could be considered close demand-side substitutes to 
FBT compliance software. 
69. 
Market inquiries revealed that customers do not consider in-house and outsourced 
solutions to be close substitutes to FBT compliance software because of the extra 
work and costs associated with using in-house and outsourced solutions. Further, 
in-house solutions leave the company open to compliance risks because of 
potential data integrity issues.  
70. 
Analysis of actual switching between solutions supported the view that other FBT 
compliance solutions are not considered close substitutes for FBT compliance 
software. Market inquiries showed that there were very few instances of 
switching from FBT compliance software to another FBT compliance solution or 
even another FBT compliance software product.  
71. 
It was found that in the small number of cases where customers of the merger 
parties did switch to another product, those customers switched from FBT 
compliance software to an in-house FBT solution rather than another FBT 
compliance software product. However, similar to income tax compliance 
software, these customers noted that their FBT needs were relatively ‘simple’ and 
therefore the software was not a cost effective option for them.  


Thomson Reuters (Professional) Australia Limited - proposed acquisition of Ernst & Young’s 
tax compliance software products business 
-14- 
72. 
It was found that some customers switched from an in-house solution to an FBT 
compliance software product. However, the ACCC found that such switching 
occurred not because in-house FBT solutions and FBT compliance software 
products were close substitutes but rather generally because of changes in the 
needs or circumstances of the customer. As with income tax compliance 
software, the ACCC found that there was some suggestion of asymmetric 
substitution between in-house solutions and FBT compliance software. That is, 
FBT compliance software may, to some extent, provide a substitute for users of 
in-house solutions, but for users of tax compliance software an in-house solution 
was not a close substitute. 
Supply-side substitutability 
73. 
On the supply side, other software providers noted that they were unlikely to 
develop FBT compliance software because of time, costs and expertise involved.  
74. 
Accordingly, the ACCC found that suppliers of other software products could not 
quickly and without significant investment, build and supply FBT compliance 
software products. 
Conclusion  
75. 
The ACCC took the view that other software, in-house solutions or outsourcing 
to a professional advisor were not close substitutes to FBT compliance software 
on the demand-side, largely because of the extra work and costs involved in using 
those other solutions. 
76. 
The ACCC found that there were no close substitutes on the supply-side for FBT 
compliance software.  
77. 
On this basis, the ACCC concluded that the relevant market was the national 
market for FBT compliance software.  
J 
Competition analysis 
Market concentration 
78. 
The ACCC found that the income tax compliance software market is comprised 
of four competing software products, namely PowerTax and N-ABLE (supplied 
by Thomson Reuters), Tax Integrator (supplied by Ernst & Young) and Complete 
Tax Solutions (supplied by Moore Stephens).  
79. 
The ACCC found that the FBT compliance software market is comprised of five 
competing software products, namely PowerTax FBT, FBT Simplifier and FBT 
Toolkit (supplied by Thomson Reuters), FBT Organiser (supplied by Ernst & 
Young) and FBT Return Preparer (supplied by the NTAA). 


Thomson Reuters (Professional) Australia Limited - proposed acquisition of Ernst & Young’s 
tax compliance software products business 
-15- 
80. 
The ACCC estimated the market shares and post-merger measures of 
concentration for the income tax compliance software market. Post-acquisition, 
the merged entity would hold more than a 90% share of licence revenue from 
income tax compliance software. Accordingly, the ACCC found that the 
proposed acquisition was likely to result in a significant increase in concentration 
in an already concentrated market. 
81. 
The ACCC considered that the structure of the market for FBT compliance 
software is similar to the income tax compliance software market, and that the 
proposed acquisition was also likely to result in a significant increase in 
concentration in this already concentrated market. 
Availability of substitutes 
82. 
The ACCC found that only one other competitor would remain in each of the 
relevant markets post-acquisition — Moore Stephens in the income tax 
compliance software market and the NTAA in the FBT compliance software 
market.  
83. 
While their products have comparable functionality to the products of the merger 
parties, inquiries revealed that these competitors do not currently have a 
significant market share.  
84. 
Further, documentary evidence reviewed by the ACCC showed that the merger 
parties competed vigorously with each other, but indicated that the merger parties 
did not consider Moore Stephens or the NTAA as strong competitors.   
85. 
The ACCC found that Moore Stephens and the NTAA are likely to be 
constrained from expanding their respective customer bases. While both 
organisations are in the tax advisory space, market inquiries indicated that most 
companies do not perceive the products supplied by Moore Stephens and the 
NTAA as functionally equivalent to the products supplied by the merger parties. 
Also, the supply of software is not recognised as their core business. 
Accordingly, the ACCC took the view that it is unlikely that these two providers 
could attract a sizeable number of customers away from the established products 
owned by the merger parties in a reasonably mature market. 
86. 
As outlined above, the ACCC found that in-house developed solutions and 
outsourcing are not close substitutes for tax compliance software and are not in 
the relevant markets. Nevertheless, the ACCC examined the level of constraint 
provided by these ‘out of market’ tax compliance solutions. Extensive market 
inquiries indicated that these tax compliance solutions would not pose an 
effective constraint on the merged firm in either of the relevant markets.  
Barriers to entry  
87. 
The ACCC found that barriers to entry are significant in the relevant markets.  


Thomson Reuters (Professional) Australia Limited - proposed acquisition of Ernst & Young’s 
tax compliance software products business 
-16- 
88. 
In the income tax compliance software market, all products to date have been 
developed by industry tax experts — the ‘big four’ accounting firms and Moore 
Stephens. The ACCC understands that product development requires a high level 
of tax expertise and a high level of IT expertise. Market participants have 
suggested that entry would only be viable if it were through acquisition of an 
existing product. 
89. 
After consulting widely with a large range of actual and potential competitors, the 
ACCC found that it would take at least 2 years to develop a greenfield income tax 
compliance product at a likely cost of around $2–3 million.  
90. 
The ACCC found that it would be very difficult for a new entrant to attract a 
critical mass of customers for an income tax compliance software product for a 
number of reasons including: 
 A proven track record / strong brand is needed — given the significant 
consequences of errors in a company’s income tax compliance, customers of 
income tax compliance software are risk averse and, as such, will not use 
software products that do not come with a proven track record, such as 
customer testimonials, or are not provided under an established brand name. 
In this respect, potential entrants considered endorsement and/or use by one 
of the ‘big four’ accounting firms as necessary to attract customers. The 
ACCC found that the ‘big four’ accounting firms are unlikely to endorse or 
use a new entrant product, and other customers are unlikely to sponsor entry. 
Further, the ‘big four’ accounting firms are unlikely to re-enter the market 
because participation in the income tax compliance software market would 
distract from their core business, and the auditor independence rules would 
limit their target market. 
 There are barriers to customers switching — a large number of customers are 
supplied income tax compliance software under 3 year contracts and the costs 
of implementing a new mode of tax compliance can be substantial in terms of 
employee training and system setup. 
 The market is reasonably mature — while not yet saturated, customer 
numbers are not likely to grow significantly in the foreseeable future.  
91. 
In respect of the FBT compliance software market, the ACCC found that an FBT 
compliance software product would take less time and money to develop than an 
income tax compliance software product.  


Thomson Reuters (Professional) Australia Limited - proposed acquisition of Ernst & Young’s 
tax compliance software products business 
-17- 
92. 
However, the ACCC also found that there is unlikely to be any monoline entry 
into this market (that is, supplying an FBT compliance software product without 
a complementary income tax compliance software product) due to lower expected 
returns, relative to income tax compliance products, and the expectation that a 
supplier of an FBT compliance product would also supply an income tax 
compliance product. Also, as with income tax compliance products, a new entrant 
would be likely to face difficulties in attracting a critical mass of customers 
because of the reluctance of customers to switch to a new product, the desirability 
of a product being aligned with one of the ‘big four’ accounting firms, the 
existence of 3 year supply contracts and the mature nature of the market. The 
ACCC found that the ‘big four’ accounting firms are unlikely to endorse a new 
product or to re-enter. 
93. 
For the reasons set out above, the ACCC found that new and effective entry in the 
relevant markets in the foreseeable future was unlikely. 
Removal of a vigorous and effective competitor  
94. 
On the basis of market inquiries and analysis of internal company documents, the 
ACCC considers that the two merger parties are each other’s closest competitors 
in both the national markets for the supply of income tax compliance software 
and FBT compliance software.  
95. 
Ernst & Young and Thomson Reuters compete vigorously for each other’s 
customers as well as vigorously for new customers (including those switching 
from in-house solutions to tax compliance software) in both of the relevant 
markets. The merger parties compete on price, service levels and on software 
functionality. The ACCC considers that the proposed acquisition would therefore 
result in a large reduction in competition at the ‘switching’ stage and the ‘sign up’ 
stage. 
Ability to increase prices and profits 
96. 
Given that the proposed acquisition would have resulted in the removal of 
Thomson Reuters’ closest competitor in markets where barriers to entry are 
significant and the remaining competitors currently pose a weak competitive 
constraint and are unlikely to expand significantly, the ACCC found that if the 
acquisition were to proceed, Thomson Reuters would have the ability to 
significantly and sustainably increase prices in both markets.  
97. 
In addition, if the merger proceeded, the ACCC found that the merged firm 
would have the ability to lower service levels in each market without losing a 
significant number of customers, due to the factors outlined above. Further, there 
would be less incentive for the merged entity to further develop or improve its 
products post-acquisition due to the reduction in competition.  
Conclusion 
98. 
In conclusion, the ACCC found that if the proposed acquisition were to proceed, 
the merged entity would have the ability to significantly and sustainably increase 


Thomson Reuters (Professional) Australia Limited - proposed acquisition of Ernst & Young’s 
tax compliance software products business 
-18- 
prices and lower service levels in the markets for the supply of income tax 
compliance software and the supply of FBT compliance software. Further there 
would be less incentive for the merged entity to further develop or improve its 
products in these markets. In contrast, if the proposed acquisition were not to 
proceed, the ACCC took the view that the tax compliance software business 
currently operated by Ernst & Young would continue to compete vigorously with 
Thomson Reuters in relation to the supply of income tax and FBT compliance 
software products, and continue to effectively constrain the ability of Thomson 
Reuters to increase prices, or lower service levels. 
99. 
On the basis of the above, the ACCC formed the view that the proposed 
acquisition would be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening 
competition in the national market for the supply of income tax compliance 
software and in the national market for the supply of FBT compliance software in 
contravention of s. 50 of the Act. 
