 
 
 
15 August 2007 
 
Statement of Issues — Fairfax Media Limited / Rural 
Press - acquisition of Riverina Media Group 
 
1. 
Outlined below is the Statement of Issues released by the Australian 
Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) in relation to the acquisition 
of Riverina Media Group (RMG) by Rural Press.  Rural Press is now owned by 
Fairfax Media Limited (Fairfax).  
2. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed or completed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, 
drawing attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, 
as well as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to 
undertake. 
3. 
The ACCC has established a secondary timeline for further consideration of the 
issues. The ACCC anticipates completing further market inquiries by 30 August 
2007 and anticipates making a final decision on 21 September 2007. However, 
the anticipated timeline can change. To keep abreast of possible changes in 
relation to timing and to find relevant documents, market participants should 
visit the Mergers Register on the ACCC's website at 
www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
4. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties 
(including customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to 
ascertain and consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also 
intended to provide the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis 
for making further submissions should they consider it necessary. 
Background 
 
5. 
On 2 May 2007, Rural Press acquired RMG.  The acquisition has been reviewed 
taking into account Fairfax’s subsequent acquisition of Rural Press on 9 May 
2007, including RMG. 
6. 
Rural Press provided the ACCC with a submission on 7 May 2007.  Fairfax 
then provided the ACCC with more information and then another submission on 
9 July 2007.  Further information has subsequently been provided by Fairfax.  


The ACCC was not notified of the acquisition of RMG prior to the acquisition 
taking place. 
 
The parties 
 
Fairfax Media Limited 
7. 
Fairfax is a newspaper publishing group which operates in both Australia and 
New Zealand. In Australia, its key metropolitan titles include The Sydney 
Morning Herald in Sydney and The Age in Melbourne. Fairfax also publishes 
regional newspapers, including The Border Morning Mail based in Albury 
Wodonga. 
8. 
Fairfax operates a community media division, Fairfax Community Newspapers, 
which publishes local and community newspapers in NSW and Victoria.   
9. 
On 9 May 2007, Fairfax acquired Rural Press, which publishes The Canberra 
Times, ten regional dailies and over 160 non-daily regional publications.  
Fairfax publications circulated in southern NSW include The Southern Weekly 
Magazine and The Land.  The Southern Weekly Magazine is a free weekly 
newspaper inserted into 26 regional newspapers throughout southern NSW.  The 
Land is a state-wide, paid weekly agribusiness publication.  The Land also 
includes a regional supplement distributed in southern NSW, The Land 
Regional Supplement.  
Riverina Media Group 
10. 
RMG is a newspaper publishing business which was owned by UIG 
Investments Pty Ltd prior to the acquisition by Rural Press.  
11. 
RMG publishes two free monthly seniors’ publications with national coverage, 
The Senior and The Australian Senior Traveller, aimed at senior citizens. 
12. 
RMG’s other publications primarily circulate in southern NSW, and include: a 
paid daily newspaper, The Wagga Daily Advertiser; 5 local newspapers in the 
Riverina area; and an agribusiness publication, The Rural.  The Rural is a free 
weekly newspaper inserted into 16 local newspapers in southern NSW, 
concentrating on the Riverina area. 
13. 
RMG owns printing equipment and operates a design studio. 
Industry background 
 
14. 
Newspaper products relevant to this acquisition include: 


• Regional daily newspapers – paid, usually daily, newspapers circulating in 
smaller cities and surrounding areas and towns (eg. The Daily Advertiser in 
Wagga Wagga) 
• Local/community newspapers – free or paid, these papers provide locally 
focused news and information and locally relevant advertising.  They are 
usually circulated on a weekly or bi-weekly basis; 
• Free insert newspapers – usually weekly, these insert newspapers are 
provided with numerous local/community newspapers in a lift-out style.  It 
is possible for a local/community newspaper to have more than one free 
insert newspaper in a single edition; 
• Specialist agribusiness newspapers – these specifically provide agricultural 
content and advertising to rural farming areas.  These can range from 
regional to state-wide publications, and may be inserts into paid or free 
local/community newspapers. 
Market inquiries 
 
15. 
On 8 May 2007, the ACCC commenced market inquiries regarding the 
proposed acquisition.  Further market inquiries were conducted after Fairfax 
provided a further submission on 9 July 2007.  A range of interested parties 
provided responses, including local advertisers, advertising agencies, and local 
newspapers in the greater Riverina / southern NSW area. 
Statement of issues 
 
16. 
For the purposes of this Statement of Issues, the issues in this matter are divided 
into two categories, ‘issues that may raise concerns’ and ‘issues unlikely to pose 
concerns’.  The ACCC is inviting information from interested parties 
(preferably supported by examples and supporting evidence) in relation to all 
issues. 
Issues that may raise concerns 
 
17. 
The ACCC is concerned that the following issues may raise competition 
concerns: 
• The acquisition may result in the aggregation of the three main options for 
print advertising in the greater Riverina / southern NSW area for the 
agribusiness industry, being The Rural, The Southern Weekly Magazine and 
The Land (in particular The Land Regional Supplement for southern NSW); 
and 
• The Rural and The Southern Weekly Magazine may be each other’s closest 
competitors for advertising in the greater Riverina / southern NSW region, 
given the significant degree of overlap between the distribution areas of 
these two publications. 


18. 
The ACCC invites further comments as to the degree of competition that exists 
between The Rural and The Southern Weekly Magazine and also between The 
Rural and The Land (in particular The Land Regional Supplement for southern 
NSW).  Specifically, the ACCC invites comments on: 
• whether readers consider the papers compete strongly in the provision of 
agricultural-focussed content; 
• whether advertisers consider the papers to be close alternatives for 
advertising; and 
• whether other providers of print advertising or other methods of advertising 
(including radio, television, mail-drops) are considered close alternatives for 
advertising.  
19. 
The map below demonstrates the circulation areas of The Rural and The 
Southern Weekly Magazine.  The map has been prepared by the ACCC on the 
basis of the information it currently has available and therefore may not fully 
reflect the actual distribution areas.  The map relates to the known distribution 
areas of The Rural and The Southern Weekly Magazine.  
 
 
20. 
In addition to comments regarding the degree of competition between The 
Rural, The Southern Weekly Magazine and The Land (in particular The Land 


Regional Supplement for Southern NSW) the ACCC also invites comments in 
relation to:  
• the height of barriers to entry to establishing a new paper that could compete 
with The Rural and The Southern Weekly Magazine in the provision of 
content and advertising for agricultural businesses.  In particular, how 
difficult would it be to establish a new paper that will be widely read across 
the greater Riverina / southern NSW region and will have viable means of 
distribution;  
• whether there would be competitive constraints operating on the merged 
entity that would be sufficient to ensure that the acquisition does not give 
rise to a substantial lessening of competition with respect to agribusiness 
publications in the greater Riverina / southern NSW area.  The ACCC notes 
that some other publications with an agribusiness focus may provide a 
degree of constraint, including The Riverina Farmer.  The ACCC also notes 
that advertising in multiple local papers may provide a degree of constraint, 
despite the smaller geographic scope of each individual local paper;  
• the degree of countervailing power from advertisers.  It is noted that for 
some local publications in Australia, advertisers such as real-estate agents 
may have some countervailing power due to the ability to threaten to 
establish their own new paper.  The ACCC seeks comments on whether 
agricultural business advertisers or other advertisers have countervailing 
power due to the ability to threaten to establish a new publication in the 
greater Riverina / southern NSW area or the ability to support a new entrant 
in the relevant area; and 
• whether agricultural-focused inserts can be considered to be in a separate 
market from the perspective of advertisers and from the perspective of 
readers.  
Issues unlikely to pose concerns 
 
Horizontal aggregation of local/community newspapers 
 
21. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view in relation to horizontal aggregation of 
local/community newspapers which are based in separate towns/cities is that the 
acquisition is unlikely to raise competition concerns.  The ACCC considers that 
the local community/newspapers do not compete with each other for either 
advertising or in terms of the provision of content.  The local/community 
newspapers primarily serve their respective geographically distinct areas.  The 
acquisition of RMG does not involve the consolidation of local/community 
newspapers in any one town or city.  
Seniors’ publications 
22. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the acquisition of RMG’s seniors’ 
publications is unlikely to raise competition concerns.  The seniors’ publications 
do not appear to compete closely with Fairfax publications.  The ACCC 


considers that alternative publishing companies are well placed to compete with 
such seniors’ publications. 
Printing and design studio operations 
23. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the acquisition of RMG’s printing and 
design studio operations is unlikely to raise competition concerns in relation to 
the supply of printing and design services in the greater Riverina / southern 
NSW area.   
24. 
The ACCC considers that substitute printing services are available in southern 
NSW and northern Victoria.  In respect of design studio operations, Fairfax did 
not appear to compete with RMG prior to the acquisition. 
25. 
Nonetheless, the ACCC will accept further submissions from industry 
participants and will further consider these product areas if it considers further 
assessment is warranted. 
ACCC’s future steps 
 
26. 
The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers market 
responses invited by this Statement of Issues. 
27. 
The ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on each of the 
issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that may be 
relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. 
28. 
Submissions are to be received by the ACCC no later than 30 August 2007. The 
ACCC will then consider the submissions and information received from 
industry participants and Fairfax, and will come to a final view as to the 
appropriate course of action to take to resolve any competition concerns that 
remain. 
29. 
The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 21 September 2007. 
However the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Merger Review 
Process Guidelines.  A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose of 
explaining the ACCC’s final view may be published following the ACCC’s 
public announcement. 
 
