 
 
 
Land of the Ngunnawal people
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
Tel 02 6243 1111 
Fax 02 6243 1199
www.accc.gov.au
OFFICIAL SENSITIVE
Our ref: 
IM-72702 
 
10 October 2024 
Dear Interested Party, 
Re: ACCC seeking your views: Viterra’s proposed acquisition of certain Cargill assets   
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
the proposed acquisition of a mobile ship loader and various grain silos (the assets) from 
Cargill Australia Limited (Cargill) and AWB Grainflow Pty Ltd (Grainflow) by Viterra 
Operations Pty Ltd (the proposed acquisition).  
Viterra and Cargill/Grainflow are participants in the bulk grain export supply chain. Further 
information on the proposed acquisition and the parties is set out in Attachment A.  
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact on competition. In particular, we are 
seeking your views on: 
• 
how closely Viterra and Cargill/Grainflow compete with one another in the affected 
areas 
• 
the likely impact of the proposed acquisition on prices and/or service quality (for both 
the acquisition of grain for export and for the storage and transport of grain from 
farms to ports)  
• 
whether the proposed acquisition would be likely to give Viterra an increased ability 
or incentive to foreclose or hinder rival grain exporters’ access to storage, transport, 
and/or port terminal services, and  
• 
the implications of the long-term agreement (LTA) under which Cargill would have 
access to an agreed volume of port terminal and upcountry storage capacity from 
Viterra.  
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test the ACCC applies when assessing mergers and acquisitions is in section 50 of 
the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are likely to 
have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market.  
Please provide your response by 5pm on 24 October 2024 via email to 
mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: Submission re: Viterra/Cargill. If you require more time 
to respond, please let us know.   


 
 
 
2 
 
OFFICIAL SENSITIVE
If you would like to arrange a time to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any questions 
about this letter, please contact mergers@accc.gov.au.  
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public Mergers 
Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We will not 
disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by 
law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or during court proceedings) or in 
accordance with s155AAA of the CCA. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where possible so that you may have an 
opportunity to be heard. Therefore, if the information provided to the ACCC is of a 
confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our Informal Merger Review Process 
Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality 
 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
Morag Bond 
General Manager 
Merger Investigation


 
 
 
3 
 
OFFICIAL SENSITIVE
Attachment A 
The proposed acquisition   
 
Viterra Operations Pty Ltd (Viterra Operations) proposes to acquire various grain silos 
(Grainflow Silos), and a mobile ship loader (Mobile Ship Loader) (collectively, the Assets) 
(Proposed Acquisition). 
 
The Mobile Ship Loader is owned by Cargill Australia Limited (Cargill). The Grainflow Silos 
are owned by a subsidiary of Cargill, AWB Grainflow Pty Ltd (Grainflow). 
Viterra  
 
Viterra Operations' ultimate holding company is Viterra Limited. Viterra Limited is in the 
process of being acquired by Bunge Limited, with completion expected this year subject to 
pending foreign regulatory approvals.1 Bunge Limited is a global agribusiness and food 
corporation headquartered in St Louis, Missouri, in the United States.  
Viterra Operations operates an integrated bulk grain export supply chain, comprising:  
• 
a network of upcountry and at-port grain storage and handling facilities (48 in South 
Australia and 2 in western Victoria)  
• 
six bulk grain export port terminals in Port Adelaide Outer Harbor, Port Adelaide 
Inner Harbour, Port Lincoln, Wallaroo, Port Giles and Thevenard in South Australia, 
and  
• 
a logistics network providing customers with rail and road transport services to move 
grain through its network.   
Viterra Operations does not itself acquire or export grain; however, Viterra Australia Pty Ltd 
(Viterra Australia) (which has the same ultimate holding company as Viterra Operations) 
does acquire, market and export grain in competition with domestic marketers and other 
exporters, including Cargill.  
Cargill and Grainflow  
Cargill’s Australian operations include grain and oilseed marketing, storage and handling, 
oilseed processing, and vegetable oil refining. It also owns and operates a mobile ship 
loader at Port Adelaide Inner Harbour.  
Grainflow, a subsidiary of Cargill, operates a network of 16 grain storage centres in 
Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, and South Australia (with eight of these located in 
South Australia and western Victoria).  
Cargill provide both storage and handling services (via Grainflow) and port loading terminal 
services.  
Cargill also acquires and exports bulk grain in competition with other domestic marketers 
and exporters, including Viterra Australia.  
 
1 The Viterra/Bunge acquisition was previously assessed and not opposed by the ACCC on 21 December 2023: 
https://www.accc.gov.au/public-registers/mergers-registers/public-informal-merger-reviews-register/bunge-limited-viterra-
limited.  


 
 
 
4 
 
OFFICIAL SENSITIVE
Cargill long term agreement (LTA) 
Viterra Operations and Cargill have recently signed the Cargill LTA, which will commence on 
1 October 2024 and will govern the terms on which Cargill will acquire short term and long 
term capacity from Viterra Operations in the future.  
Under the Cargill LTA, Viterra Operations has committed to supply Cargill an agreed volume 
of port terminal and upcountry storage capacity.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
5 
 
OFFICIAL SENSITIVE
Attachment B 
1. To better understand your views, please describe your business or organisation and 
explain your interest in the proposed acquisition, including any commercial 
relationship(s) with Viterra or Cargill/Grainflow.  
Origination and marketing of grains 
2. How closely do Viterra and Cargill compete in the supply of origination and marketing 
services for grain in South Australia and Victoria?  
3. Identify and describe alternative grain exporters or traders that compete with Viterra 
and Cargill in origination and/or marketing of grains. Please specify the location/s in 
which these acquirers compete with Viterra and/or Cargill.  
4. Describe the geographic area over which grain exporters and traders in South 
Australia and Victoria generally source grain for export and any relevant factors for 
this, such as transport costs. 
5. Describe any barriers to a new supplier commencing, or existing supplier expanding, 
in the supply of origination and marketing services for grain in South Australia, 
including: 
a. whether it is necessary to be able to provide any storage and logistics 
services and if so, the capital costs associated with providing these services 
b. access to customers and the ease with which growers can switch suppliers 
for origination and marketing services or exporters can switch suppliers for 
storage and logistics 
c. accreditation or regulatory requirements, and  
d. any other relevant factors.  
Bulk grain storage and handling services and port terminal services  
6. Describe how customers (including both grain growers and exporters) procure:  
a. storage and handling services for grains, and  
b. port terminal services for grains.  
7. We understand that Viterra offers ‘Export Select’ as a bundled logistics package. 
Describe whether grain (i) storage and handling services, (ii) rail or road haulage 
services and/or (iii) port terminal services, are commonly bundled. In your response, 
please explain how important it is for agribusinesses to offer several services. 
8. Identify and describe alternative suppliers that compete with Viterra and/or 
Cargill/Grainflow, to provide: 
a. storage and handling services, and 
b. port terminal services.  
9. Describe any barriers to a new supplier commencing, or existing supplier expanding, 
in the supply of storage and handling services and/or port terminal services in south-
eastern South Australia and western Victoria. In relation to port terminal services, 
please comment on the relative importance of ownership of and/or access to mobile 
ship loaders.  
10. Discuss whether the proposed acquisition would increase Viterra’s ability and 
incentive to foreclose rival grain merchants (for example, limit rival grain exporters’ 
access to storage and handling services and/or port terminal services). 


 
 
 
6 
 
OFFICIAL SENSITIVE
11. Discuss the implications of the Cargill LTA and, in particular, Viterra’s commitment of 
port terminal and upcountry storage capacity to Cargill.  
Other information and competition issues 
12. Provide any additional information or comments that you consider relevant to the 
ACCC’s consideration of the proposed acquisition. 
 
