 
 
 
31 May 2012 
 
Statement of Issues — ALH Group Pty Ltd (75 per 
cent owned by Woolworths Limited) - proposed 
acquisition of the Caringbah Hotel 
1. 
Outlined below is the Statement of Issues released by the Australian Competition 
and Consumer Commission (ACCC) in relation to the proposed acquisition of 
the Caringbah Hotel by ALH Group Pty Ltd (ALH) from the Bayfields Group 
(Bayfields) (the proposed acquisition). Woolworths Limited (Woolworths) 
holds 75 per cent of the issued share capital in ALH. As a related acquisition, 
Laundy Hotels Pty Ltd (LHG) proposes to acquire the freehold property for the 
site. 
2. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well 
as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
3. 
In line with the ACCC’s Merger Review Process Guidelines (available on the 
ACCC’s website at www.accc.gov.au) the ACCC has established a secondary 
timeline for further consideration of the issues in relation to the proposed 
acquisition. The ACCC anticipates completing further market inquiries by 14 
June 2012 and anticipates making a final decision on 28 June 2012. However, 
the anticipated timeline can change in line with the Merger Review Process 
Guidelines. To keep abreast of possible changes in relation to timing and to find 
relevant documents, market participants should visit the Mergers Register on the 
ACCC’s website at www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
4. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, suppliers, shareholders and other stakeholders) to 
ascertain and consider the primary competition issues identified by the ACCC. It 
is also intended to provide the merger parties and other interested parties with the 
basis for making further submissions should they consider it necessary. 
Background 
5. 
The ACCC commenced an informal review into the proposed acquisition on 1 
March 2012. 


ALH - proposed acquisition of the Caringbah Hotel 
 
2
The Parties 
Acquirers 
ALH  
6. 
ALH is owned by Woolworths (75 per cent) and the Bruce Mathieson Group (25 
per cent).  
7. 
ALH owns and operates 294 hotels and approximately 12,000 gaming machines 
nationally. ALH currently operates 27 hotels and around 700 gaming machines in 
NSW. 
8. 
Woolworths (including ALH) is the largest liquor retailer in Australia with over 
1,100 retail outlets and around 37 per cent of national liquor retail sales. 
Woolworths operates the takeaway liquor brands Dan Murphy’s, BWS and 
Woolworths Liquor. 
9. 
ALH/Woolworths have submitted to the ACCC that the hotels in the ALH group 
are managed separately from other Woolworths Liquor outlets. However, the 
ACCC understands that, where an ALH group hotel also operates a bottleshop, 
the bottleshop is branded BWS or Dan Murphy’s and operates in accordance with 
the policies of the BWS and Dan Murphy’s brands. 
10. 
The ACCC considers that because Woolworths has effective control of ALH 
through its 75 per cent holding in the group and retains ownership and control of 
the retail liquor brands under which ALH bottleshops are operated, such 
bottleshops are properly considered as part of the Woolworths liquor group for 
the purposes of assessing the competitive effects of the proposed acquisition. 
LHG 
11. 
LHG is a family owned and operated business which is currently the largest 
independently owned hotel chain in NSW with around 40 hotels and a small 
number of takeaway packaged liquor licences.  
12. 
It is the ACCC’s understanding that ALH and LHG have entered into a joint 
venture arrangement, of which the proposed Caringbah acquisition is a part, 
whereby LHG will become or remain the freehold property owner for a large 
number of hotel properties which will be leased to ALH. This arrangement 
includes the following related transactions: 
• ALH is proposing to acquire 24 of LHG’s hotel businesses and two 
takeaway packaged liquor retailers while LHG will retain the freehold 
which will be leased to ALH; and 
• ALH is proposing to purchase 5 hotel businesses from the Waugh Group 
while LHG will acquire the associated freehold property which will be 
leased to ALH.  


ALH - proposed acquisition of the Caringbah Hotel 
 
3
Target - The Caringbah Hotel 
13. 
The Caringbah Hotel is currently owned and operated by Bayfields. Bayfields 
also owns and operates a number of other hotels in Sydney, including the 
Newport Arms Hotel, the Dee Why Hotel, the President Hotel Belrose and the 
Newport Mirage Hotel (all located in the northern beaches area of Sydney). 
Bayfields also operates a further two large format ‘big box’ liquor stores under 
the Bayfields banner. The other Bayfields stores are located in northern Sydney at 
Dee Why and Belrose. 
14. 
The Caringbah Hotel is located in the Sutherland Shire in southern Sydney at 343 
Port Hacking Road, Caringbah NSW. It is a large venue (over 1100 m2 without 
including the bottleshop) with three separate bars and 30 electronic gaming 
machines.  
15. 
In addition to the on-site facilities, the Caringbah Hotel operates a very large 
detached bottleshop on the same site as the hotel. This bottleshop operates under 
the ‘Bayfields at the Caringbah’ banner (Caringbah Bayfields) with a trading 
area of approximately 800 square metres and around 3000 products available. 
The site is easily accessible by car and has a large number of car parking spaces 
available.  
16. 
The Bayfields bottleshops are members of the Bottlemart banner/buying group 
but are not advertised as such except for small signs indicating that all Bottlemart 
specials are available in-store. Further, the Bottlemart specials do not appear to be 
incorporated into the Bayfields special catalogues and the Bayfields group often 
provides an additional discount over the Bottlemart promotional price. 
Other industry Participants 
17. 
Wesfarmers (Wesfarmers) through its Liquorland, Vintage Cellars and 1st 
Choice brands is currently the second largest packaged liquor retailer in 
Australia, with a share of national sales of around 20 per cent. 
18. 
Banner and buying groups including Bottlemart, Local Liquor, Liquor Stax, 
Bottle-O, Cellarbrations and Thirsty Camel, along with other non-aligned 
independent retailers account for the remainder of national liquor sales.  
The Proposed Acquisition 
19. 
ALH proposes to acquire from Bayfields the business and associated assets of the 
Caringbah Hotel, including the detached bottleshop currently operating as 
Bayfields Caringbah. 
20. 
In a related transaction, LHG will purchase from Bayfields the associated 
freehold property. LHG will then enter into a long term registrable lease 
agreement with ALH for the use of the freehold. As such, post- acquisition LHG 
will be the lessor of the hotel and bottleshop to ALH. 


ALH - proposed acquisition of the Caringbah Hotel 
 
4
Related transactions 
21. 
The ACCC is currently reviewing related but separate proposed acquisitions by 
ALH of 31 hotels and 1 takeaway packaged liquor licence in NSW, including 24 
hotels from LHG (31 hotels transaction), as mentioned at paragraph 12 above. 
Further details on these proposed acquisitions can be found on the ACCC’s 
website at www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister.  
Industry Background 
Retail sale of packaged liquor for off-site consumption 
22. 
ALH/Woolworths and Wesfarmers are Australia’s largest retailers of packaged 
liquor, together accounting for 58 per cent of national sales in 2011, comprising 
ALH/Woolworths with 37 per cent and Wesfarmers with 21 per cent.  
23. 
Independently owned bottleshops make up the remainder of retail sales. 
Independent operators often retail packaged liquor in association with marketing 
banner groups such as Cellarbrations, Liquorstax, Liquor Legends, Bottlemart 
and Thirsty Camel and achieve purchasing power and reduced costs through 
participating in buying groups.  
24. 
While liquor retailers are differentiated by the characteristics of their retail 
offering, including product range, location, service and price, most can usually be 
defined to be part of a broader category of retailers which target particular types 
of liquor purchases. Categories of bottleshops include: 
i. ‘destination’ or ‘big box’ retailers, such as Woolworths’ Dan Murphy’s brand 
and Wesfarmers’ 1st Choice. These retailers target customers seeking a 
broader selection of products or making bulk purchases, hence they usually 
offer a wide range of products and tend to be price leaders in a particular area; 
and 
ii. ‘convenience’ outlets such as Woolworths’ BWS and Wesfarmers’ Liquorland 
and the majority of independent brands. These retailers target customers 
making smaller purchases where convenience and accessibility is more 
important than price or range. These tend to be smaller and have higher prices 
than the ‘big box’ outlets, but are more numerous, are more likely to be in a 
convenient location and often incorporate drive-through facilities. 
Retail sale of liquor for on-site consumption, entertainment and gaming 
25. 
In Australia, the hotel industry is highly fragmented with the largest shares of 
hotel licences nationally controlled by: 
 ALH with 10 per cent;1 
 Wesfarmers with 3.8 per cent; 
                                                 
1 The ACCC understands that Woolworths does not own hotel licences, and any bottleshops attached to 
hotels and operating under Woolworths brands are owned by ALH. 


ALH - proposed acquisition of the Caringbah Hotel 
 
5
 National Leisure and Gaming with 1.5 per cent; and  
the Independent Pub Group with 1 per cent.  
In NSW, ALH currently holds approximately 1.3 per cent of hotel licences.2 
26. 
In NSW, LHG is currently the largest independent hotel operator in NSW with 
1.9 per cent of hotel licences in that state. It is closely followed by a number of 
other operators in NSW including National Leisure and Gaming (1.5 per cent), 
the Waugh Hotel Group (0.9 per cent) and the De Angelis Group (0.4 per cent). 
27. 
In NSW, hotels generate a significant proportion of their revenue from electronic 
gaming machines and, as such, ownership of these machines is considered 
important to the viability and competitiveness of hotels in the state. There are 
currently around 96,000 electronic gaming machine licences in NSW of which 
around 23,000 are held by hotels, with the remainder controlled by clubs and 
casinos. ALH/Woolworths owns and operates around 700 gaming machines in 
NSW.3 
Areas of Overlap 
28. 
The ACCC considers that the following areas of overlap exist between the parties 
to the proposed acquisition: 
i. 
ALH/Woolworths, LHG and Bayfields compete for the retail sale of 
packaged liquor for off-site consumption at a local geographic level;  
ii. 
ALH/Woolworths, LHG and Bayfields compete in various local areas 
for the sale of liquor for on-site consumption, entertainment and gaming; 
and 
iii. 
ALH/Woolworths, LHG and Bayfields compete to acquire liquor from 
wholesale suppliers in NSW. 
Market Inquiries 
29. 
On 7 March 2012, the ACCC commenced market inquiries regarding the 
proposed acquisition.  
30. 
As part of this process, the ACCC contacted market participants in the Caringbah 
area including packaged liquor retailers, hotels and a number of competing liquor 
banner groups and wholesale suppliers of liquor. 
                                                 
2 This 1.3 percent share would increase to 3 percent if the related 31 hotels transaction proceeds in full. 
As indentified above, the ACCC is currently reviewing that proposed transaction.  
3 This would increase to around 1400 if the 31 hotels transaction proceeds. As indentified above, the 
ACCC is currently reviewing that proposed transaction. 


ALH - proposed acquisition of the Caringbah Hotel 
 
6
With/without test  
31. 
In assessing a merger pursuant to section 50 of the Competition and Consumer 
Act 2010 (Cth) (CCA), the ACCC considers the effect of the transaction by 
comparing the likely competitive environment post-acquisition if the transaction 
proceeds (the “with” position) to the likely competitive environment if the 
transaction does not proceed (the “without” position or “counterfactual” position) 
to determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to have the effect of 
substantially lessening competition in any relevant market.  
32. 
The ACCC has received conflicting information from market participants in 
relation to the likely situation without the proposed acquisition, particularly in 
relation to whether ALH/Woolworths is likely to seek to enter the Caringbah area 
with a Dan Murphy’s branded retailer should the proposed acquisition not 
proceed.  
33. 
The ACCC notes that possible competition issues are likely to differ depending 
on the counterfactual.  
 
Market Definition 
34. 
Section 50 of the CCA prohibits mergers or acquisitions that would have the 
effect or be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in any 
market. In assessing a proposed acquisition pursuant to section 50 of the CCA, 
the ACCC considers the competitive impact of the transaction in the context of 
the market/s relevant to the proposed acquisition. 
Retail markets for the sale of packaged liquor for off-site consumption 
35. 
The ACCC considers that in retail markets involving chains and buying groups, 
competition may occur at both the national or state level and at the local 
geographic level. While all liquor retailers compete to attract customers from 
other retailers located in the same local area, many large retailers (such as 
ALH/Woolworths) standardise many elements of their retail offers (including 
promotional pricing) across all stores within a state. 
36. 
When assessing local retail markets, the ACCC aims to identify the competitive 
constraints on the merged firm’s retail offers at a store level. In assessing the 
broader NSW retail market, the ACCC aims to identify the competitive 
The ACCC invites market participants to comment on the likely 
counterfactual should the proposed acquisition not proceed. 
The ACCC invites market participants to provide information and evidence 
as to the likely competitive environment if the proposed acquisition does 
not proceed, including specific information to assist the ACCC in forming a 
view as to the likelihood of ALH/Woolworths seeking to enter the 
Caringbah area with a Dan Murphy’s branded retailer.  


ALH - proposed acquisition of the Caringbah Hotel 
 
7
constraints on the merged firm in determining its state-wide retail offers (such as 
state prices and state-wide marketing campaigns). 
State-wide market 
37. 
In the broader market, the ACCC notes that major chains including the 
Woolworths brands (Woolworths Liquor, Dan Murphy’s and BWS); the 
Wesfarmers brands (Liquorland, 1st Choice and Vintage Cellars); and 
independent brands (IGA, Cellarbrations, Bottlemart, Liquor Legends and 
Liquorstax) standardise major elements of their retail offer across all stores in 
NSW, for example, through state-wide promotions. The ACCC considers that the 
relevant issue in defining the broader market is to identify the constraints on the 
merged firm’s state-based retail offers. 
Local markets 
38. 
The ACCC considers that the geographic scope of a local liquor market will 
depend on a range of factors, including the nature of the target retail outlet and its 
customer base. For a ‘convenience’ retailer, the relevant geographic market might 
be expected to be narrower than for a ‘destination’ retailer.  
39. 
To undertake an analysis of competition in a local liquor market the ACCC starts 
from the target bottleshop, and the competing stores already owned by the 
acquirer, and considers the factors that influence customers’ decisions to shop 
there, and what alternative outlets would represent close substitutes in the event 
of a price increase or deterioration in service. These factors include: 
i. the product range and prices offered by alternative bottleshops relative to 
those offered by the target and acquirer; 
ii. whether alternative bottleshops provide customers with convenient access in 
conjunction with other services required by customers, such as supermarkets 
or shopping centres; 
iii. how far customers are willing to travel for different types of liquor purchases; 
and 
iv. whether the alternative bottleshop is located on a major thoroughfare and can 
be accessed easily by customers on their way to or from another location (e.g. 
commuting to or from a workplace). 
40. 
Market inquiries undertaken by the ACCC indicate that the willingness of 
customers to bypass their nearest bottleshop to access competing bottleshops is 
strongly influenced by the attractiveness of the retail offering of more distant 
stores, with customers travelling greater distances to access significant savings or 
a greater range of products. That is, customers’ willingness to travel to a 
competing retailer increases with the strength of the retail offering of that retailer 
relative to geographically closer substitutes. This means that: 


ALH - proposed acquisition of the Caringbah Hotel 
 
8
• Small bottleshops located away from other services and major transport 
routes are unlikely to be an attractive substitute for other bottleshops 
outside a very small geographic area.  
• Conversely, a store with a very strong retail offering, such as a 
‘destination’ or ‘big box’ retailer, may be an attractive substitute for 
other retailers over a larger area.  
41. 
Further to analysing the geographic scope of a particular retailer’s competitive 
influence, the ACCC considers whether competitive constraints in a market are 
asymmetrical. For example, in the case of big box retailers the ACCC considers 
that the presence of a big box store in a local area may impose a significant 
competitive constraint on smaller retailers in the same area. However, smaller 
stores may be less likely to provide a strong competitive constraint on big box 
stores due to their smaller range and generally higher prices. 
42. 
The ACCC considers that Caringbah Bayfields is a large format ‘big box’ store 
similar to a Dan Murphy’s or 1st Choice and as such, is likely to be a strong 
competitive influence over a greater geographical area than the majority of other 
liquor retailers.  
 
 
Retail market for the sale of liquor for on-site consumption, entertainment and 
gaming 
43. 
In assessing the proposed acquisition, the ACCC has sought information from the 
industry on the geographic scope of markets for the sale of liquor for on-site 
consumption, entertainment and gaming, in venues such as hotels and licensed 
clubs.  
44. 
Market participants have indicated that for venues in regional or suburban areas, 
customers generally travel 3-5km to a licensed venue to purchase alcohol for on-
site consumption.  
45. 
In the Caringbah area, the ACCC has reviewed the proposed acquisition in the 
context of a local market within a radius of 3-5km from the Caringbah Hotel. 
The ACCC invites market participants to comment on the geographic scope 
of the relevant retail liquor market(s), with reference to: 
i. 
how far consumers are willing to travel to purchase liquor from ‘big 
box’ format stores like Caringbah Bayfields and Dan Murphy’s in 
preference to a more conveniently located store; 
ii. 
what factors influence consumers’ willingness to travel to access 
takeaway packaged liquor stores; and 
iii. 
the extent to which other retailers competitively constrain ‘big box’ 
retailers and vice versa. 


ALH - proposed acquisition of the Caringbah Hotel 
 
9
 
 
Wholesale market for the acquisition of liquor in NSW  
46. 
In assessing the proposed acquisition, the ACCC has sought information from the 
industry on the geographic scope of the wholesale market for the acquisition of 
liquor. Market participants have indicated that liquor supply agreements between 
liquor manufacturers and major retailers and wholesalers such as Woolworths, 
Wesfarmers and Metcash are usually arranged on a state-wide basis. However, 
the ACCC has also received information that the growth in national liquor brands 
and retail chains has resulted in a shift towards national liquor supply agreements. 
Statement of Issues 
47. 
For the purposes of this Statement of Issues, the issues in this matter are divided 
into two categories ‘issues of concern’ and ‘issues unlikely to pose concerns’. 
Issues of Concern 
Local market for the retail sale of packaged liquor for off-site consumption in the 
Caringbah area  
48. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is likely to result 
in a substantial lessening of competition in the local market for the retail sale of 
packaged liquor for off-site consumption in the Caringbah area, both in terms of 
‘big box’ and ‘convenience’ liquor purchases. The ACCC considers that this is 
likely to occur as a result of the removal of Caringbah Bayfields as a vigorous 
and effective competitor in that market. 
49. 
In the Caringbah area the closest other large format ‘destination’ store to the 
Caringbah Bayfields is the 1st Choice Liquor in Sylvania, owned by Wesfarmers, 
which is around 3km from the Caringbah Bayfields. The next closest 
‘destination’ store is the Dan Murphy’s at Hurstville, owned by Woolworths, 
which is around 10km from the Caringbah Bayfields. 
50. 
There are also many small format stores within the narrower Caringbah area 
which compete for ‘convenience’ customers, including several stores owned by 
The ACCC invites market participants to comment on whether the 3-5km 
radius identified by the ACCC is the correct geographic scope for the local 
Caringbah market for the sale of liquor for on-site consumption, 
entertainment and gaming, with reference to: 
i. whether the majority of customers of a venue travel less than 3-5km to visit 
the venue; 
ii. what factors influence a consumer’s willingness to travel more than 3-5km 
to an alternative venue; and 
iii. which other venues constrain the local offer of the Caringbah Hotel, 
regardless of whether these are within 3-5km of the Caringbah Hotel. 


ALH - proposed acquisition of the Caringbah Hotel 
 
10
each of Woolworths and Wesfarmers, as well as independent stores, one of which 
is currently proposed to be purchased by ALH under the separate 31 hotels 
transaction and rebranded as a BWS. 
51. 
To compete against other bottleshops, Bayfields has three distinct promotional 
discount programmes: a monthly specials catalogue, a weekly specials catalogue 
and a Bottlemart specials range. Bayfields lists some of these specials in multiple 
full page advertisements in the local newspaper, the St George & Sutherland 
Shire Leader (the Leader). It is the ACCC’s understanding that as a result of 
these price promotions, the Caringbah Bayfields may have more than 200 
products discounted at any given time. 
52. 
Market inquires undertaken by the ACCC indicate that the prices offered by the 
Caringbah Bayfields during its regular specials are usually discounted 
aggressively. Further, while Bayfields at least matches all Bottlemart specials (as 
required under its buying group conditions) Bayfields often offers an additional 
discount beyond the advertised Bottlemart special.  
53. 
In addition to its own discounting, Bayfields also offers a price match guarantee 
which states that it will honour any competitor’s prices advertised in the Leader.  
54. 
The ACCC notes that while other bottleshops advertise in the Leader, the number 
of lines promoted, the size of the advertisements and the extent of the price 
discounting is usually less than Bayfields. In addition, no other competitor 
advertising in the Leader offers a similar price match promotion. The ACCC 
notes that while Dan Murphy’s and 1st Choice offer similar price match 
promotions, neither of these advertise in the Leader. 
55. 
The ACCC also notes that the Dan Murphy’s at Hurstville appears to follow the 
specials offered by Caringbah Bayfields. As a result, the Dan Murphy’s price at 
Hurstville will be cheaper for the products advertised by Caringbah Bayfields 
than for the Dan Murphy’s brand state-wide. Accordingly, both Caringbah and 
Hurstville customers benefit from the strong promotional price offering of 
Caringbah Bayfields.  
56. 
The ACCC further notes that the Dan Murphy’s at Hurstville does not appear to 
match the price promotions of the other competitors in the Caringbah area, 
regardless of whether they advertise in the Leader, indicating that the Caringbah 
Bayfields may be considered a price leader in this area. 
57. 
It is the ACCC’s understanding that post-acquisition, Caringbah Bayfields will be 
rebranded as a Dan Murphy’s store. This would result in the removal of the 
Caringbah Bayfields’ strong promotional offering in the local market and would 
additionally lead the Dan Murphy’s at Hurstville to cease matching prices with 
Caringbah Bayfields. 
58. 
Given the above information, the ACCC is concerned that the removal of 
Caringbah Bayfields would lead to an increase in takeaway packaged liquor 
prices in the Caringbah area due to the removal of the current aggressive price 
discounting of a vigorous and effective competitor. The impact of this on the 
post-acquisition market may include: 


ALH - proposed acquisition of the Caringbah Hotel 
 
11
i. an increase in prices at Caringbah Bayfields, primarily through a reduction in 
the frequency, breadth or extent of discounting;  
ii. an increase in prices at competing independent liquor retailers in the narrower 
Caringbah area which would no longer need to compete with the aggressive 
discounting and strong promotion of Caringbah Bayfields; and 
iii. a reduction in the frequency, breadth or extent of discounting offered by the 
Dan Murphy’s at Hurstville. 
59. 
The ACCC notes that a number of smaller (including independent) ‘convenience’ 
competitors will remain in the vicinity of the Caringbah Bayfields post-
acquisition, and may be able to constrain ALH/Woolworths’ ability to increase 
prices or reduce service at its other stores. However, the ACCC considers that 
these operators would be unlikely to impose a sufficient competitive constraint on 
the merged entity as these sites do not offer the same level of range and prices 
offered by the large format retailers.  
60. 
The ACCC notes that while 1st Choice at Sylvania is also a large format store 
with a broad range, competitive pricing and a price-matching retail policy and is 
around 3km from Caringbah Bayfields, the 1st Choice brand does not appear to 
respond to local competition in the same way as Dan Murphy’s and is unlikely to 
become a vigorous and effective local competitor like Caringbah Bayfields. 
While it will match competitors’ prices on an ad-hoc basis on request of a 
customer, it does not alter in-store shelf prices in response to local competition. 
As such, the ACCC currently considers that the competitive constraint imposed 
by 1st Choice in the area post-acquisition would be less than the constraint 
currently provided by Caringbah Bayfields.  
 
 
Issues unlikely to pose concerns 
The ACCC invites market participants to comment on the likely effect of the 
proposed acquisition of Caringbah Bayfields in the local market around 
Caringbah Bayfields, with reference to: 
i. 
the extent to which Caringbah Bayfields is a price leader in the local liquor 
market; 
ii. 
the likely effect of Caringbah Bayfields being removed as a vigorous and 
effective competitor in the market;  
iii. 
the extent to which the discounts offered by 1st Choice Liquor at Sylvania 
compares with the price discounting offered by Caringbah Bayfields; and 
iv. 
the extent to which a reduction in competition in the Caringbah region 
might have a flow-on effect to other nearby regions, particularly for 
consumers in Hurstville. 


ALH - proposed acquisition of the Caringbah Hotel 
 
12
Caringbah market for the sale of liquor for on-site consumption, entertainment and 
gaming   
61. 
The ACCC is investigating whether the proposed acquisition will result in a 
substantial reduction in competition in the local market for the sale of liquor for 
on-site consumption, entertainment and gaming within 3-5km of the Caringbah 
Hotel. 
62. 
Market inquires indicate that there are four other hotels within a 3km radius of 
the Caringbah Hotel. These hotels are: 
a. 
The Miranda Hotel located at 590 Kingsway Miranda NSW 2228 
b. 
The Taren Point Hotel located at 105 Parraweena Road, Taren Point NSW 
2229, part of the Feros Group of Hotels 
c. 
The Gymea Hotel located at 41 Gymea Bay Road, Gymea NSW 2227, 
currently part of the Waugh Group of Hotels 
d. 
The Royal Crest Sylvania located 114 Princes Highway Sylvania NSW 
2224.  
63. 
The Gymea Hotel is currently a proposed acquisition target in the 31 hotels 
transaction.  
64. 
The ACCC notes that no concerns have yet been raised during market inquiries in 
respect of its assessment of that proposed acquisition. Market participants have 
indicated that the on-site market is highly competitive and it is unlikely that ALH 
will have sufficient market power to increase prices and/or reduce service at its 
sites in the Caringbah area post acquisition as there will be sufficient remaining 
competitors in the market to competitively constrain ALH. 
 
 
The NSW market for the sale of packaged liquor for off-site consumption 
 
65. 
In the NSW retail liquor market, the ACCC considers that the more significant 
competitive constraints on ALH/Woolworths are likely to come from competitors 
with similar state-based offers. This includes Wesfarmers (1st Choice, Vintage 
Cellars and Liquorland) and banner groups such as Cellarbrations, IGA, 
Bottlemart, Liquor Legends and Liquorstax. 
66. 
While this is the case, it does not necessarily mean that an independent liquor 
retailer (such as Bayfields) does not impose a constraint on ALH/Woolworths’ 
state retail offers. In setting its state offers, ALH/Woolworths are likely to 
consider the competitive position of its stores against all major competitors.  
The ACCC invites market participants to comment on the likely effect of the 
proposed acquisition of the Caringbah Hotel on the local market surrounding 
the Caringbah Hotel, with reference to the extent other hotels in the area will 
provide a competitive constraint on ALH post- acquisition. 


ALH - proposed acquisition of the Caringbah Hotel 
 
13
67. 
In this particular matter, the ACCC notes that the proposed acquisition would 
represent one of over 330 ALH/Woolworths liquor stores in NSW.  As such, 
despite the fact that the store being acquired is large and may be a vigorous and 
effective competitor in the local market, the ACCC considers that it is unlikely 
that the proposed acquisition alone would materially alter the competitive 
constraints imposed on ALH/Woolworths’ state-wide retail offers.   
68. 
In this context, the ACCC considers it unlikely that the proposed acquisition 
would have a significant impact on competition between brands at a state level 
due to the very small transfer of market share as a result of the proposed 
acquisition. 
Wholesale market for the acquisition of liquor in NSW  
 
69. 
The ACCC estimates that the proposed acquisition will result in a market share 
transfer of less than 1 per cent in this market.  
70. 
Market participants did not consider that the proposed acquisition would result in 
a significant lessening of competition in the NSW wholesale liquor market as the 
additional market share gained by ALH/Woolworths would be insufficient to 
significantly increase its market power when negotiating liquor supply 
agreements with manufacturers and other suppliers. 
71. 
Accordingly, due to the small transfer of market share the ACCC believes it is 
unlikely the proposed acquisition will raise any competition concerns within the 
wholesale liquor market in NSW.  
 
ACCC's Future Steps 
72. 
The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers market responses 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
73. 
The ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on each of the issues 
identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that may be relevant 
to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. 
74. 
Submissions are to be received by the ACCC no later than 14 June 2012. The 
ACCC will consider the submissions received from the market and the merger 
parties in light of the issues identified above and will, in conjunction with 
information and submissions already provided by the parties, come to a final 
view in light of the issues raised above. 
75. 
The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 28 June 2012. 
However the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Merger Review 
Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose of 
The ACCC invites market participants to comment on whether the proposed 
acquisition raises competition concerns in the NSW or national wholesale 
liquor market. 


ALH - proposed acquisition of the Caringbah Hotel 
 
14
explaining the ACCCs final view may be published following the ACCCs public 
announcement. 
  
