 
Public Competition Assessment 
27 May 2011 
Woolworths Limited - proposed acquisition of The Cellarmasters 
Group 
 
Introduction 
1. 
On 21 April 2011, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission 
(ACCC) announced its decision not to oppose the proposed acquisition of The 
Cellarmasters Group by Woolworths Limited (proposed acquisition).  The 
ACCC decided that the proposed acquisition would be unlikely to have the effect 
of substantially lessening competition in any relevant market in contravention of 
section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the Act). 
2. 
The ACCC made its decision on the basis of the information provided by the 
merger parties and information arising from its market inquiries. This Public 
Competition Assessment outlines the basis on which the ACCC has reached its 
decision on the proposed acquisition, subject to confidentiality considerations. 
Public Competition Assessment 
3. 
To provide an enhanced level of transparency and procedural fairness in its 
decision making process, the ACCC issues a Public Competition Assessment for 
all transaction proposals where: 
 a merger is opposed; 
 a merger is subject to enforceable undertakings; 
 the merger parties seek such disclosure; or 
 a merger is not opposed but raises important issues that the ACCC considers 
should be made public. 
4. 
This Public Competition Assessment has been issued because the proposed 
transaction is considered to raise issues of interest to the public. 
5. 
By issuing Public Competition Assessments, the ACCC aims to provide the 
public with a better understanding of the ACCC's analysis of various markets and 
the associated merger and competition issues. It also alerts the public to 
circumstances where the ACCC’s assessment of the competition conditions in 
particular markets is changing, or likely to change.  


 
-2- 
6. 
Each Public Competition Assessment is specific to the particular transaction 
under review by the ACCC. While some transaction proposals may involve the 
same or related markets, it should not be assumed that the analysis and decision 
outlined in one Public Competition Assessment will be conclusive of the ACCC’s 
view in respect of other transaction proposals, as each matter will be considered 
on its own merits.  
7. 
Public Competition Assessments outline the ACCC’s principal reasons for 
forming views on a proposed acquisition at the time the decision was made. As 
such Public Competition Assessments may not definitively identify and explain 
all issues that the ACCC considers arise from a proposed acquisition. Further, the 
ACCC’s decisions generally involve consideration of both non-confidential and 
confidential information provided by the merger parties and market participants. 
In order to maintain the confidentiality of particular information, Public 
Competition Assessments do not contain any confidential information or its 
sources. 
The parties 
The acquirer: Woolworths Limited (Woolworths) 
8. 
Woolworths is a listed public company and has interests in food and grocery, 
liquor, petrol, general merchandise and consumer electronics. It also has interests 
in the hospitality, gaming and hardware sectors. Woolworths is Australia’s largest 
grocery retailer and liquor retailer and in FY 2009/10 it had revenue of $51.7 
billion.  
9. 
Woolworths’ Liquor Group includes Dan Murphy’s (big box format stand-alone 
liquor stores); Woolworths Liquor (outlets attached to Woolworths and Safeway 
stores); and BWS (retail stand-alone liquor stores). Woolworths also owns 
Langton’s Fine Wine Auctions (Langton’s) (a consignment based online auction 
and fixed price exchange business for the sale of fine wine within Australia and 
internationally).   
10. 
Until recently Woolworths’ liquor businesses sold liquor only through bricks and 
mortar outlets and, apart from some limited online sales through Homeshop 
(Woolworths’ grocery home delivery service) and Langton’s, 1 did not make any 
liquor sales online. This changed on 8 March 2011 when Dan Murphy’s began 
selling liquor online through www.danmurphys.com.au.  
The target: The Cellarmasters Group (Cellarmasters) 
11. 
Cellarmasters is a direct to home wine retailer and provider of contract bottling 
and wine making services with operations in Australia and New Zealand.  
                                                 
1  
The vast majority of wine sold through Langton’s is done on a consignment basis, meaning the 
Langton’s business provides the means by which sales are made (i.e. auction or exchange) but 
Langton’s is not the vendor of the product. . 


 
-3- 
12. 
Cellarmasters sells wine through direct channels (i.e. wine plans, wine advisory 
services; inbound calls in response to catalogues and letters) and online. Unlike 
Woolworths, Cellarmasters has no bricks and mortar outlets. 
13. 
Cellarmasters’ businesses include Cellarmaster Wines Pty Ltd, which it describes 
as Australia’s largest direct retailer of home-delivered wines; Dorrien Estate, a 
winemaking operation which produces a range of wine it distributes through the 
Cellarmasters direct channel; and a range of ancillary businesses including 
Vinpac International, Vi Packaging, Vi Sevices and Vi Logistics (collectively 
referred to as Vinpac) which provide wine services such as bottling, packaging, 
storage, filtration and testing.  
The proposed transaction 
14. 
On 25 February 2011 Woolworths announced its intention to acquire 
Cellarmasters from Archer Capital. On 2 May 2011, Woolworths announced that 
it had completed the acquisition. 
ACCC review timeline 
15. The following table outlines the timeline of key events in this matter. 
Date 
Event 
01-Mar-2011 
 
22-Mar-2011 
25-Mar-2011 
 
04-Apr-2011 
 
21-Apr-2011 
ACCC commenced review under the Merger Review Process 
Guidelines. 
Closing date for submissions from interested parties. 
ACCC requested further information from Woolworths. ACCC 
timeline suspended. 
ACCC received further information from Woolworths. ACCC 
timeline recommenced. 
ACCC announced it would not oppose the proposed acquisition. 
 
Market inquiries 
16. 
The ACCC conducted market inquiries with a range of industry participants 
including competing liquor and wine retailers, relevant industry bodies, suppliers, 
customers and other interested parties. Submissions were sought in relation to the 
substantive competition issues. 
With/without test 
17. 
In assessing a merger pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC must consider 
the effects of the transaction by comparing the likely competitive environment 
post-merger if the transaction proceeds (the “with” position) to the likely 
competitive environment if the transaction does not proceed (the “without” 
position). 


 
-4- 
18. 
The ACCC considered it possible that in the absence of the proposed acquisition, 
Cellarmasters could continue to operate as a stand-alone business or it could be 
acquired by another party.  
19. 
On this basis, the ACCC considered that the likely future state of competition 
without the merger would be similar to the state of competition prevailing at the 
time of the merger, and assessed the matter on this basis. 
Areas of overlap 
20. 
The operations of Woolworths and Cellarmasters overlap in the areas of wine 
retailing and the wholesale acquisition of wine in Australia. 
21. 
Woolworths does not currently produce wine or supply any winemaking services 
(such as bottling or labelling). However, due to the vertically integrated nature of 
Cellarmasters’ businesses, the ACCC also considered the effect of the proposed 
acquisition on wine production and supply of wine services in Australia.  
Market definition   
Retail 
22. 
There were three main issues considered by the ACCC in determining the 
relevant retail market(s): 
i. 
whether ‘bricks and mortar’ liquor retailers and online/direct liquor 
retailers are sufficiently close substitutes to be included in a combined 
market, or separate markets; 
ii. 
whether the relevant product dimension of the market(s) should include 
sales of all liquor or should be confined to sales of wine only; and 
iii. 
the relevant geographic market. 
Are ‘bricks and mortar’ retailers and online/direct retailers close substitutes? 
23. 
The ACCC received conflicting information regarding this issue. Some parties 
noted that there were common customers and common products for both types of 
retailers and this may suggest a degree of substitution between the two. Other 
parties suggested that there were differences in the types of customers of each 
type of retailer. For example, it was suggested that customers of bricks and 
mortar retailers made purchases on impulse whereas online purchases were more 
well-planned and were generally for larger quantities. It was also noted that 
purchases in bricks and mortar retail outlets gave instant access to the product 
whereas online purchases usually took a number of days to be delivered to the 
customer. 
24. 
The information available to the ACCC suggested that there was some 
substitution between the different types of retailers, although bricks and mortar 
and online/direct retailers were not close substitutes. 


 
-5- 
25. 
The ACCC did not consider it necessary to form a concluded view on this issue, 
as it found that on either approach to market definition the proposed acquisition 
would not be likely to result in a substantial lessening of competition. This Public 
Competition Assessment outlines the ACCC’s competitive analysis in the context 
of both possible market definitions, that is, a broader market that included both 
bricks and mortar and online retailers as well as a narrower market that included 
only online/direct retailers.   
Is the relevant product dimension sales of liquor or sales of wine? 
26. 
The ACCC has previously considered acquisitions in this industry in the context 
of markets for the retail sale of packaged liquor (including beer, wine and spirits). 
This is because many significant competitors in the industry, including 
Woolworths, Wesfarmers (Coles), Metcash-supplied banner groups and 
independent retail chains and stores, supply wine and other types of liquor to 
consumers. Potentially, this suggests supply-side substitutability between 
retailing of wine and of other types of liquor. 
27. 
In the review of the proposed acquisition, the ACCC noted that while 
Woolworths is a retailer of liquor generally, Cellarmasters is focused on sales of 
wine only. The ACCC considered any competitive rivalry between the parties 
would be confined to sales of wine only. However, the ACCC recognised that the 
market may include retailers of liquor more generally because of supply-side 
substitutability. 
28. 
The ACCC did not need to form a concluded view on this issue, as it found that 
on either approach to market definition the proposed acquisition would not be 
likely to result in a substantial lessening of competition. This Public Competition 
Assessment outlines the ACCC’s competition analysis in the context of both 
possible market definitions, that is, a broader retail market for packaged liquor 
sales as well as a narrower retail market for wine sales only. 
Geographic dimension of the market 
29. 
As outlined in the Merger Guidelines, the ACCC takes a purposive approach to 
defining markets, and defining the relevant market in any matter always depends 
on the specific facts and circumstances. 
30. 
Previously, the ACCC has generally considered acquisitions of liquor licences in 
the context of local markets (i.e. geographic markets which included retailers 
within a reasonably close proximity to the acquirer and the target). This is 
because the ACCC has found that the strongest competitive constraint on 
individual liquor stores will often come from other liquor stores within the local 
area, and in the context of considering acquisitions occurring within local areas, 
the local market will usually be the focus of the ACCC’s analysis. 
31. 
In its review of Woolworths’ proposed acquisition of Langton’s, the ACCC 
considered the likely impact on competition in a national market for online retail 
wine sales and auctions. 


 
-6- 
32. 
In assessing this matter, given Woolworths’ extensive presence across Australia 
in terms of bricks and mortar retail operations and Cellarmasters’ ability to sell 
and deliver nationally, the ACCC considered that the relevant geographic market 
was likely to be national.  Nevertheless, this should not be taken to mean that the 
ACCC would not adopt a local geographic market definition in future matters in 
appropriate circumstances. 
Conclusion – retail market 
33. 
The ACCC considered it appropriate to assess the likely impact of the proposed 
acquisition on competition in each of the following possible retail markets:   
 Market one – national retail packaged liquor sales (beer, wine and spirits) 
for off-premises consumption (i.e. through all sales channels including retail 
packaged liquor sales through direct channels, online, by auction and by 
bricks and mortar stores);  
 Market two – national retail wine sales for off-premises consumption (i.e. 
including retail wine sales through all sales channels); and 
 Market three – national retail wine sales for off-premises consumption made 
through direct and online sales channels (i.e. excluding bricks and mortar 
liquor sales).  
34. 
As the ACCC ultimately concluded that the proposed acquisition was unlikely to 
substantially lessen competition irrespective of the market definition adopted, it 
was not necessary to form a concluded view as to the relevant market. 
Wholesale bottled wine market  
35. 
Woolworths, Cellarmasters and other wine retailers acquire bottled wine from 
wine producers which is then sold at the retail level of the industry. Market 
inquiries indicated that wholesale sales of bottled wine constituted a separate and 
distinct market from, for example, wholesale sales of other types of liquor. 
36. 
Wine producers tend to supply wine to retailers across Australia, rather than to 
retailers located only in a particular region. Similarly, retailers do not appear to 
be limited in their ability to source wine from regions across Australia. 
37. 
Accordingly, the ACCC considered it appropriate to consider the likely impact of 
the proposed acquisition on competition in a national wholesale bottled wine 
market.  
Wine grape acquisition 
38. 
Some market participants expressed concerns in relation to acquisitions of wine 
grapes. As these concerns related to possible flow-on effects from any lessening 
of competition in the wholesale bottled wine market, the ACCC did not need to 
define the relevant wine grape acquisition market precisely.  


 
-7- 
Wine production and wine services markets 
39. 
Woolworths does not currently produce wine or supply services ancillary to wine 
production (such as bottling and labelling). Some market participants expressed 
concerns relating to Woolworths’ ability to leverage retail market power into 
wine services or leverage market power in wine services (or wine production) 
into the retail market.  
40. 
The ACCC did not consider it necessary to form a definitive view about the 
relevant wine production and wine services markets in order to explore those 
concerns. 
Competition analysis 
Retail markets 
41. 
The ACCC considered the likely impact of the proposed acquisition on 
competition in each of the possible markets identified in paragraph 33.  
Market concentration 
42. 
The ACCC’s review found that Cellarmasters has a very small share of the 
overall liquor market (around 1%) and the retail wine market (around 3%). 
However, if the market was defined more narrowly as an online/direct wine sales 
market, Cellarmasters had a more significant share (estimated at in excess of 
20%). 
43. 
Woolworths’ share of the retail packaged liquor market or retail bottled wine 
market is estimated by market participants at between 25% and 40%. However, if 
the market was defined more narrowly as an online/direct wine sales market, 
Woolworths’ share of the market is very small (less than 1%).  
44. 
Accordingly, irrespective of the market definition adopted, the increase in market 
concentration resulting from the proposed acquisition would be very small. 
45. 
Market inquiries indicated that the market shares of Wesfarmers (Coles) and the 
Metcash banner groups are significantly greater than Cellarmasters in the retail 
liquor or wine market.  
46. 
Market inquiries also indicated that there are many retailers with a more 
significant share of the online wine retail market than Woolworths. These parties 
included Wesfarmers (Coles), Australian Wine Selectors, Gray’s Online, 
Australian Wine Society, Get Wines Direct, Kemeny’s Direct, Winestar and 
Wine People. 


 
-8- 
Competition from existing competitors 
47. 
In the context of any possible retail market definition, Woolworths would 
continue to face strong competition from a range of significant sources post-
acquisition. This includes Wesfarmers (Coles), Metcash banner stores, other 
banner groups, independent bricks and mortar liquor stores and online liquor and 
wine retailers. 
48. 
Furthermore, Woolworths and Cellarmasters did not appear to be particularly 
close competitors in any possible retail market. In a retail packaged liquor or 
retail wine market (markets one and two as described in paragraph 33), 
Wesfarmers and Metcash are likely to be Woolworths’ closest competitors. In an 
online wine retail market (market three as described in paragraph 33), 
Cellarmasters’ main competitors are likely to be Australian Wine Selectors, 
Gray’s Online, Coles (through Liquorland Direct and Vintage Cellars) and a 
range of online wine retailers. Woolworths has had a negligible existing online 
wine sales presence but has recently commenced online sales via Dan Murphy’s. 
Cellarmasters as a vigorous and effective competitor 
49. 
Some market participants submitted that Cellarmasters was a particularly 
significant competitor due to its large customer database. It was suggested that 
the customer database gave Cellarmasters a competitive advantage over other 
direct and online wine retailers and that it would be difficult for new entrants to 
compete with Woolworths post-acquisition because of this. However, other 
market participants, including other online wine retailers, submitted that 
Cellarmasters’ customer database did not provide it with a significant advantage 
because competing retailers had existing large customer databases of their own or 
could rent or purchase such databases at a cost. 
50. 
The ACCC concluded that neither Cellarmasters’ customer database, nor any 
other aspect of the Cellarmasters business, made Cellarmasters a particularly 
vigorous and effective competitor, in the context of any of the possible retail 
markets. 
Barriers to entry 
51. 
Market inquiries indicated that barriers to entry to small-scale online wine 
retailing are relatively low. This appears to be evidenced by the large number of 
online wine retailers present in Australia. 
52. 
However, some market participants indicated that the barriers to expansion for 
small online wine retailers are significant and it is difficult for a small competitor 
to grow to a size capable of competitively constraining the merged entity. The 
most significant of these barriers was said to be the large sunk cost of advertising 
and marketing involved in growing customer awareness and to gain a customer 
database of a size that would enable the business to achieve the scale (and 
therefore buying power) and range of products necessary to compete with the 
merged entity. 


 
-9- 
53. 
The ACCC noted that there is a large number of existing online wine retail 
competitors and considers that this number is likely to continue to grow. Market 
inquiries provided evidence of recent new entry, proposed new entry and likely 
expansion by existing online retailers.  
54. 
For these reasons, the ACCC considered that barriers to entry and expansion for 
online wine retailing are not insurmountable. While it may take time and not 
insignificant investment to grow to a significant size, the available evidence 
suggests that there are retailers making that investment. 
55. 
The ACCC considers that expansion by existing online wine retailers and new 
entrants is likely to play a part in providing a competitive constraint on the 
merged entity. 
56. 
In the event that Woolworths attempted to raise prices or reduce the quality of its 
product offering (e.g. reduce the range of wines it stocks), the ACCC considered 
that this would only accelerate the entry and expansion of other online retailers. 
Conclusion – Retail 
57. 
The ACCC concluded that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to lead to a 
substantial lessening of competition in any relevant retail market. This is due to 
the minimal increase in concentration that would result from the proposed 
acquisition and the competitive constraint on Woolworths that would come from 
multiple existing competitors and potential new entry and expansion (particularly 
for direct and online sales).  
Wholesale bottled wine market 
58. 
The ACCC considered whether the proposed acquisition would be likely to lessen 
competition in the national wholesale bottled wine market. 
59. 
Market inquiries indicated that Woolworths possesses significant bargaining 
power in this market due to its very large retail presence. 
60. 
Some market participants suggested that the proposed acquisition would provide 
Woolworths with even greater bargaining power in the wholesale acquisition of 
wine, particularly in dealings with particular wine producers that are heavily 
reliant on Woolworths and Cellarmasters. Further, some market participants 
suggested that the proposed acquisition would remove Cellarmasters as an 
alternative marketing channel for many small-scale wine producers that do not 
produce on a scale that makes them attractive as suppliers to Woolworths.  
61. 
The ACCC closely considered these issues in its review and, in particular, 
whether Woolworths’ bargaining power would be increased following the 
proposed acquisition to such an extent that competition in the wholesale market 
would be substantially lessened. 


 
-10- 
Increase in Woolworths’ share of wholesale wine purchases 
62. 
The ACCC considered that the proposed acquisition will result in only a very 
small increase in the value and volume of bottled wine acquired by Woolworths. 
This is due to two factors: 
1. Cellarmasters represents only a small proportion of the wine sold at the retail 
level of the market (see the market concentration discussion, paragraph 42 
above).  
2. The proportion of the wine sold by Cellarmasters which is sourced from 
independent wine producers is very small, since Cellarmasters sources a 
significant majority of its wine through its own wine production business, 
Dorrien Estate.  
Are any wine producers heavily reliant on Woolworths and Cellarmasters? 
63. 
The ACCC considered whether there were wine producers or groups of wine 
producers that were heavily reliant on both Woolworths and Cellarmasters as 
channels to the retail market(s). For any such producers, the proposed acquisition 
may have lessened the bargaining power they had in negotiating terms with 
Woolworths and/or Cellarmasters. In theory, in the absence of the proposed 
acquisition, such a wine producer could resist price pressure from Woolworths by 
threatening to sell through Cellarmasters instead (or vice versa).  
64. 
However, market inquiries did not produce evidence that any wine producer is 
heavily reliant on both Woolworths and Cellarmasters. For those wine producers 
that currently sell to both Woolworths and Cellarmasters, the ACCC found that 
sales to Cellarmasters were not significant when compared with the volume of 
sales to Woolworths. The ACCC did not receive any evidence that suggested 
Cellarmasters was being used to constrain Woolworths’ bargaining power with 
these wine producers. 
65. 
Further, the ACCC also noted that other retailers including Coles and the 
Metcash banner groups, were likely to be better placed than Cellarmasters to be 
used by wine producers as a countervailing force on Woolworths due to their 
more significant scale. 
Cellarmasters as an alternative route to market for smaller wineries 
66. 
Some market participants suggested that Cellarmasters played an important role 
as an alternative route to the retail market for smaller wine producers. However, 
the ACCC’s inquiries led it to conclude that it was not accurate to characterise 
Cellarmasters in this manner.  
67. 
Cellarmasters predominantly acquires bulk wine and grapes to produce its own 
products and it currently acquires only a very small amount of third party bottled 
wine (particularly when compared with the volume of third-party produced wine 
acquired by other retailers). The third-party wine Cellarmasters does acquire is 
mainly supplied by larger wine producers rather than from small scale producers.  


 
-11- 
68. 
In any event the ACCC noted that there will remain many independent liquor 
retailers through which small wineries can sell bottled wine.  
Conclusion – Wholesale  
69. 
For these reasons the ACCC concluded that the proposed acquisition is unlikely 
to lead to a substantial lessening of competition in the national wholesale bottled 
wine market.   
Possible flow-on effects to wine grape acquisitions 
70. 
Since the ACCC concluded that the proposed acquisition was unlikely to result in 
a substantial lessening of competition in the wholesale bottled wine market, the 
ACCC considered that concerns in relation to acquisitions of wholesale wine 
grapes would also be unlikely. This is because the proposed acquisition does not 
create any concentration in wine grape acquisition (since Woolworths does not 
acquire wine grapes) and any impact on competition for acquisition of wine 
grapes would be a flow-on effect from an impact in the wholesale bottled wine 
market. 
Wine services and wine production 
71. 
The ACCC considered whether the vertical integration of Woolworths’ retail 
liquor operations with Cellarmaster’s interests in wine production and wine 
services would have a significant impact on competition in the possible retail 
markets, the wholesale bottled wine market, or any markets for the supply of 
wine services.  
72. 
As outlined in the ACCC’s Merger Guidelines an integrated or conglomerate 
firm will generally only be able to engage in foreclosure if it has sufficient market 
power at one or more functional levels within the vertical supply chain.2 Such 
foreclosure will only be possible where the downstream rivals to the integrated 
firm face insufficient viable supply alternatives or where upstream rival firms 
lack sufficient actual or potential economic alternatives in the downstream market 
to sell their output.3 
73. 
The ACCC examined whether the proposed acquisition could result in: 
1. Retailers being foreclosed from accessing key wholesale wine inputs (bottled 
wine or wine services). 
2. Wine producers being foreclosed from accessing a key retailer in Woolworths  
3. Wine producers being foreclosed from accessing key inputs into wine 
production (wine services). 
                                                 
2 ACCC Merger Guidelines 5.28, p.28 
3 ACCC Merger Guidelines 5.30 and 5.31, p.28 


 
-12- 
74. 
The ACCC also examined related concerns regarding Woolworths increasing the 
amount of private label wine it sells and concerns relating to the information 
Woolworths might gain about its competitors and customers’ production costs 
and practices. 
75. 
The ACCC concluded that Woolworths’ vertical integration into wine services 
and wine production was unlikely to result in a substantial lessening of 
competition in any market. In particular, market inquiries revealed: 
• There are a significant number of existing competitors to Cellarmasters’ wine 
services businesses and evidence of wine producers switching from 
Cellarmasters to alternative suppliers in recent years. It is not the case that 
retailers lack alternative wine services providers. 
• The proportion of wine produced by Dorrien Estate is very small. There are a 
range of competitors to Dorrien Estate which Woolworths’ retail competitors 
could utilise if they were unhappy dealing with Dorrien Estate. In addition, 
there is at present a significant underutilisation of wine production facilities in 
Australia. In these circumstances it is likely that such facilities would have a 
strong imperative to increase production for new or expanding retail 
competitors. 
• While Woolworths has a strong retail presence, wine producers have several 
other existing bricks and mortar and online/direct wine retailers through 
which they can sell their wine. The likelihood of new entry (particularly 
online) will further provide alternative channels through which wine 
producers can sell wine. 
• Given Woolworths’ strong position in the retail market, wine producers 
currently (and will likely in future) seek ways to avoid increasing their 
reliance on Woolworths. This will provide strong incentives to support 
alternative wine services providers and retailers. 
• Many wine producers have their own capacity to undertake the same wine 
services offered by Cellarmasters. While the issue of barriers to entry was not 
determinative in the review of the proposed acquisition, the ACCC has 
previously noted that barriers to entry to wine services are not high.4  
76. 
The ACCC observes that Woolworths could increase the amount of private label 
wine it sells without vertically integrating into winemaking. Woolworths could 
simply have contracted with Dorrien Estate to produce private label wine on its 
behalf. In addition, while Woolworths may well seek to increase the amount of 
private label wine it sells and it may use Dorrien Estate to do this, market 
inquiries did not provide any evidence that this would result in a lessening of 
competition in any of the relevant markets. 
                                                 
4 See ACCC’s review of Vinpac’s proposed acquisition of Tarac Bottlers, 2002  


 
-13- 
77. 
The ACCC concluded that the vertical integration by Woolworths into 
winemaking and wine services is unlikely to lead to a substantial lessening of 
competition in any market. This is primarily because the conditions for 
foreclosure do not appear to exist in either the upstream or downstream market. 
That is, there will remain many options for sourcing bottled wine and wine 
services at the upstream level and many options for wine producers to sell their 
wine at the downstream (retail) level.  
Conclusion 
78. 
On the basis of the above, the ACCC formed the view that the proposed 
acquisition of The Cellarmasters Group by Woolworths Limited would not be 
likely to result in a substantial lessening of competition in any market in 
contravention of section 50 of the Act. 
 
