Page 1 of 12 
 
Public Competition Assessment 
25 October 2013 
Woolworths Limited - proposed acquisition of supermarket 
site at Glenmore Ridge Village Centre 
Introduction 
1. 
On 6 June 2013, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission 
(ACCC) announced its decision to oppose the proposed acquisition of a 
supermarket site at Glenmore Ridge Village Centre (the target site) by 
Woolworths Limited (Woolworths) from a subsidiary of Stockland Corporation 
Limited (Stockland) (the proposed acquisition). The ACCC decided that the 
proposed acquisition would be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening 
competition in the local retail supermarket market surrounding the target site, in 
contravention of section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the 
Act). 
2. 
The ACCC made its decision on the basis of the information provided by the 
parties to the acquisition (the parties) and information arising from its market 
inquiries. This Public Competition Assessment outlines (subject to confidentiality 
considerations) the basis on which the ACCC has reached its decision on the 
proposed acquisition. 
Public Competition Assessment 
3. 
To provide an enhanced level of transparency and procedural fairness in its 
decision making process, the ACCC issues a Public Competition Assessment for 
all transaction proposals where: 
 an acquisition is opposed; 
 an acquisition is subject to enforceable undertakings; 
 the parties to the acquisition seek such disclosure; or 
 an acquisition is not opposed but raises important issues that the ACCC 
considers should be made public. 
4. 
This Public Competition Assessment has been issued because the proposed 
acquisition was opposed by the ACCC. 
5. 
By issuing Public Competition Assessments, the ACCC aims to provide the 
public with a better understanding of the ACCC's analysis of various markets and 
the associated merger and competition issues.  


 
Page 2 of 12 
6. 
Each Public Competition Assessment is specific to the particular transaction 
under review by the ACCC. While some transaction proposals may involve the 
same or related markets, it should not be assumed that the analysis and 
decision outlined in one Public Competition Assessment will be conclusive of the 
ACCC’s view in respect of other transaction proposals, as each matter will be 
considered on a case-by-case basis. 
7. 
Public Competition Assessments outline the ACCC’s principal reasons for 
forming views on a proposed acquisition at the time the decision was made. As 
such Public Competition Assessments may not definitively identify and explain 
all issues that the ACCC considers arise from a proposed acquisition. Further, 
the ACCC’s decisions generally involve consideration of both non-confidential 
and confidential information provided by the parties and market participants. In 
order to maintain the confidentiality of particular information, Public Competition 
Assessments do not contain any confidential information or its sources. 
The parties 
The acquirer: Woolworths Limited 
8. 
Woolworths is an Australian and New Zealand retailer. Its operations include 
supermarkets, fuel, liquor, general merchandise stores, hardware and home 
improvement. 
9. 
Woolworths is Australia's largest grocery retailer. It operates over 800 
supermarkets across Australia. 
The vendor: Stockland Corporation Limited 
10. The target site is currently owned by Stockland. Stockland is a publicly listed 
diversified property group. It develops and manages a portfolio of residential 
community, retirement living, retail, office and industrial assets. 
The target: supermarket site at Glenmore Ridge Village Centre 
11. The target site is a 2.1ha block of undeveloped land located approximately 53km 
west of the Sydney CBD in the recently released Glenmore Ridge residential 
estate. The Glenmore Ridge estate is in the suburb of Glenmore Park, within the 
Penrith City municipality. The target site is presently zoned as a 'Local Centre'. 
As a result, subject to council and regulatory approvals, the site can house a 
supermarket, as well as complementary specialty shops such as a bottleshop, 
bank or post office. 
The proposed transaction 
12. Woolworths proposed to acquire the target site from Stockland. 
Other supermarket operators 
Coles 
13. Coles is a large supermarket, liquor and fuel retailer. It operates over 700 
supermarkets across Australia, and retails fuel under the Coles Express brand. 
Coles is owned by Wesfarmers Limited, an Australian listed public company with 
diverse business operations in the retail, resources, insurance, chemicals, 
energy, fertilisers and industrial sectors. 


 
Page 3 of 12 
Metcash Limited 
14. Metcash Limited (Metcash) is Australia’s largest grocery, fresh produce, liquor 
and hardware wholesaler and distributor to independently owned supermarkets. 
Metcash’s IGA Distribution business provides warehousing, distribution and 
marketing of grocery consumables to independent retailers operating under the 
IGA, Supa IGA and IGA Xpress supermarket brands and to supermarkets which 
do not carry the IGA brand such as FoodWorks, Supabarn, SupaExpress and 
Supabarn Express. There are over 1400 stores across Australia operating under 
one of the IGA brands (including supermarkets previously branded Franklins). 
Metcash is also a wholesaler to bottleshops under banner groups including IGA 
Liquor, Cellarbrations, Thirsty Camel and the Bottle-O, and to hardware retailers 
under the Mitre 10 and True Value banners.  
ALDI Australia 
15. ALDI is a privately-owned global supermarket operator that entered Australia in 
2001. It has over 300 stores across NSW, the ACT, Queensland and Victoria. In 
February 2013, ALDI announced plans to expand its operations into South 
Australia and Western Australia. 
16. ALDI can be characterised as a limited assortment discounter. Limited 
assortment discounters emphasise private label products, do not provide the 
same depth of range as full-line supermarkets (such as Woolworths and Coles) 
and are generally smaller stores. Various brands of limited assortment 
discounters operate internationally but in Australia ALDI is the only such operator 
with a significant interstate network. 
Review timeline 
17. The ACCC commenced its public review after being alerted to the proposed 
acquisition by a third party. The merger parties did not approach the ACCC to 
seek informal clearance. 
18. The following table outlines the timeline of key events in this matter. 
Date 
Event 
20-Jun-2012 
ACCC commenced review under the Merger Review Process 
Guidelines. 
06-Jul-2012 
Closing date for submissions from interested parties. 
12-Jul-2012 
ACCC requested further information from the merger parties. Former 
proposed decision date of 2 August 2012 delayed. ACCC timeline 
suspended pending receipt of further information from the merger 
parties. 
16-Aug-2012 
ACCC received further information from the merger parties following 
ACCC's request for information on 12 July 2012. ACCC timeline 
recommenced. 
24-Aug-2012 
ACCC timeline suspended because of delays in merger parties 
responding to additional information requests made previously by the 
ACCC. Proposed decision date of 6 September 2012 delayed. 
03-Sep-2012 
ACCC received further information from merger parties. ACCC 
timeline recommenced. 
20-Sep-2012 
ACCC published a Statement of Issues outlining preliminary 
competition concerns. 


 
Page 4 of 12 
Date 
Event 
04-Oct-2012 
Closing date for submissions relating to Statement of Issues. 
11-Oct-2012 
Awaiting response from merger parties to the Statement of Issues. 
Request received from Woolworths and Stockland that the ACCC 
delay its decision date to allow them further time to provide a 
response. Proposed decision date of 18 October 2012 delayed. 
22-Oct-2012 
Responses to the Statement of Issues received from merger parties. 
ACCC timeline recommenced. 
06-Nov-2012 
ACCC timeline suspended upon request from Woolworths that the 
ACCC delay its decision date again to allow it further time to provide 
additional information. Proposed decision date of 8 November 2012 
delayed. 
19-Nov-2012 
ACCC received further information from Woolworths. 
20-Nov-2012 
ACCC notified Woolworths that the information provided on 19 
November 2012 was incomplete and requested further information 
from Woolworths in support. 
27-Nov-2012 
Proposed decision date of 29 November 2012 delayed pending 
receipt of complete information from Woolworths supporting the 
information provided by Woolworths on 19 November 2012. 
22-May-2013 
Complete information received. ACCC timeline recommenced. 
06-Jun-2013 
ACCC announced it would oppose the proposed acquisition. 
Market inquiries 
19. The ACCC conducted market inquiries before and after it published a Statement 
of Issues, consulting a range of interested parties, including competitors, 
potential competitors and local customers. 
Statement of Issues 
20. The ACCC published a Statement of Issues on 20 September 2012. In the 
Statement of Issues the ACCC stated its preliminary view that the proposed 
acquisition would be likely to result in a substantial lessening of competition in 
the local retail supermarket market surrounding the target site. In particular, the 
ACCC expressed concern that the proposed acquisition would be likely to have 
the effect of preventing or hindering the emergence of competition that may 
otherwise have been brought to the local market by an alternative supermarket 
operator.  
21. Further submissions were sought from industry participants and other interested 
parties in relation to the competition issues outlined in the ACCC’s Statement of 
Issues. 
Future with and without the acquisition 
22. Section 50 of the Act prohibits mergers or acquisitions that would have the effect 
or be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
In assessing a proposed acquisition pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC 
considers the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future competitive 
environment post-acquisition if the acquisition proceeds (the “with” position) to 
the likely future competitive environment if the acquisition does not proceed (the 


 
Page 5 of 12 
“without” position) to determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in any relevant market. 
23. Most mergers reviewed by the ACCC involve the acquisition of a pre-existing 
business. In these circumstances the likely future state of competition without the 
merger will generally be similar to the state of competition prevailing at the time 
of the merger. In contrast, as this matter involves the proposed acquisition of a 
“greenfield” site, the competition prevailing at the time of the merger is likely to 
understate the future state of competition in the event that the proposed 
acquisition does not proceed.   
24. The “with” position was that Woolworths' acquisition of the target site would have 
proceeded. Woolworths would then have developed a large format full-line 
supermarket at the site (subject to council approval) and potentially also a 
Woolworths branded bottleshop. Complementary non-Woolworths specialty 
shops would also be likely to be developed at the site. 
25. The ACCC concluded that, in the absence of the proposed acquisition, the most 
likely outcome was that another supermarket would be developed at the target 
site. In reaching this conclusion, the ACCC had regard to relevant local planning 
documents, as well as information provided by the merger parties and 
respondents to market inquiries. 
26. Development of the target site is subject to certain local planning documents, 
including: 
 the Penrith Local Environmental Plan (Glenmore Park Stage 2) 2009 (the 
LEP); 
 section 6.18 of the Penrith Development Control Plan 2006; and  
 the Glenmore Ridge Concept Plan submitted by Stockland to the Penrith City 
Council (and approved by the Council in February 2011) in respect of the 
target site. 
27. Under the LEP, the target site is zoned as 'B2 - Local Centre', which permits the 
establishment of a supermarket at the site (as well as other complementary 
specialty shops) with the consent of Penrith City Council. Further, the LEP, and 
the other documents referred to above, each recognise the importance of the 
target site being used to provide retail facilities for the local community. The 
ACCC’s market inquiries suggested that a supermarket anchor would be 
essential to the successful establishment of a retail centre at the target site. 
28. The ACCC also considered whether it would be open to Stockland to seek to 
have the site rezoned for residential development. However, given the emphasis 
on retail in the existing planning documents, the ACCC concluded the most likely 
outcome in the future without the proposed acquisition would be that a retail 
centre would be developed at the site. 
Competition analysis 
29. The ACCC considered whether the proposed acquisition was likely to lead to a 
substantial lessening of competition by preventing an alternative supermarket 
operator from competing with Woolworths in the local market surrounding the 
target site. 


 
Page 6 of 12 
Market definition 
Local retail supermarket market 
30. When assessing local retail markets, the ACCC aims to identify the competitive 
constraints on the retail offers of the target store and other nearby stores 
operated by the acquiring firm. In the context of the present review, the 'target 
store' is the supermarket that would be developed at the target site. 
31. For the reasons discussed below the ACCC considered the relevant market to 
be the retail supply of grocery and household products by supermarkets to 
consumers (the retail supermarket market) in the suburb of Glenmore Park. 
Local retail supermarket market: product dimension 
32. The ACCC considered the extent to which the following types of supermarket 
and non-supermarket retailers are substitutes for a supermarket constructed at 
the target site, and therefore whether they should be considered part of the 
relevant market: 
 full-line supermarkets, such as those typical of the major supermarket chains, 
which retail a full range of goods including packaged groceries, fresh meat, 
bakery and deli products, fresh fruit and vegetables, and frozen foods. 
 limited assortment discounters (i.e. ALDI); and 
 specialist food retailers such as butchers, bakers and greengrocers. 
33. Supermarkets offer customers the ability to purchase grocery items across 
multiple categories in one transaction. In this regard, they can be distinguished 
from specialist retailers. The ACCC did not consider specialist retailers to be 
sufficiently close substitutes to be included in the relevant market.  
34. Further, not all supermarkets are equally close substitutes for each other. The 
ACCC considered that the closest constraint on a supermarket at the target site 
would be likely to come from other full-line supermarkets. While the ACCC 
considered ALDI to provide some competitive tension, it generally does not 
provide the same depth of range as a full-line supermarket.  
35. For these reasons, the ACCC considered the product dimension of the relevant 
market to be the retail supermarket market. 
Local retail supermarket market: geographic dimension 
36. As stated above, the ACCC considered the geographic dimension of the market 
to be the suburb of Glenmore Park. The location of the target site in relation to 
the suburb of Glenmore Park is shown on the following map. 


 
Page 7 of 12 
Figure 1: Map of area surrounding the target site 
 
37. As shown in , Glenmore Park is bounded to the north by the M4 Western 
Motorway (a major highway for which there are only two crossing points in 
Glenmore Park), to the east by the Northern Rd, to the west by the Nepean River 
and to the south by rural land and nature reserves. As a result, potentially 
competing supermarkets outside of Glenmore Park are located on the other side 
of the M4 Western Motorway. 
38. As also shown in , the suburb of Glenmore Park currently contains only one 
supermarket – a Woolworths at the Glenmore Park Town Centre. In the future, it 
will also contain an ALDI that the ACCC understands is due to open at the 
Glenmore Park Town Centre in 2014, and a supermarket at the target site.1 
39. Located approximately 1km north of the M4 (5-10 minutes' drive from Glenmore 
Park, depending on traffic and starting location), the Woolworths supermarket at 
the Southlands Shopping Centre in the suburb of South Penrith is the next 
closest supermarket to Glenmore Park. 
                                                 
1 
As noted earlier in this document, the ACCC considers that this supermarket would be a 
Woolworths if the proposed acquisition proceeded, and was likely to be a non-Woolworths 
supermarket in the absence of the proposed acquisition. 


 
Page 8 of 12 
40. Further north, there are a number of supermarkets in the suburb of Penrith (10-
15 minutes' drive from Glenmore Park, depending on traffic and starting 
location). Penrith is the regional centre of the area. During the ACCC’s review, 
Penrith contained: 
 a Woolworths in the Westfield Penrith complex (which is a major regional 
shopping centre); 
 a Coles in the Centro Nepean complex (which is a sub-regional shopping 
centre); 
 two Franklins supermarkets (one of which was in the Westfield Penrith 
complex);2 
 one ALDI; and  
 a Foodworks. 
41. The ACCC concluded that the three existing and proposed supermarkets located 
in the suburb of Glenmore Park (and listed above at [38]) would be the closest 
constraints on each other due to their geographic proximity (noting the 
differentiation of retail offerings between ALDI and Woolworths). 
42. The ACCC further concluded that neither the Woolworths at Southlands 
Shopping Centre, nor the supermarkets within Penrith, were sufficiently close 
substitutes to be considered part of the geographic dimension of the market. 
43. In reaching these conclusions, the ACCC had regard to the following factors, 
each of which is discussed in greater detail below: 
 the proximity of various supermarkets to the target site and local geographic 
features; 
 the catchment area of supermarkets located in Glenmore Park; and 
 the current shopping patterns of Glenmore Park residents. 
Proximity and local geography 
44. Each supermarket in Penrith is at least 5km from the target site as measured by 
a straight line, and further by road. This equates to supermarkets in Penrith 
being approximately 10-15 minutes' drive from Glenmore Park. 
45. Further, Glenmore Park is separated from other suburbs to the north by the M4 
Motorway. The M4 Motorway is a major highway with limited points of crossing. 
The ACCC considers that the M4 constitutes both a physical and a perceived 
barrier to Glenmore Park residents when choosing where to conduct their 
supermarket shopping. 
Origin of customers of Glenmore Park supermarkets 
46. The ACCC understands that the Woolworths supermarket at Glenmore Park 
Town Centre draws the majority of its sales revenues from Glenmore Park 
residents, and that this is also likely to be the case for any new supermarket built 
at the target site. 
47. Market definition is a separate concept from that of the catchment area of 
Glenmore Park supermarkets (i.e. the area from where Glenmore Park 
                                                 
2 
The ACCC understands that one of these Franklins is now an IGA supermarket, while the other 
(which was located in Westfield Penrith) has closed. 


 
Page 9 of 12 
supermarkets draw their customers). However, given the importance of 
convenience to home for many supermarket shoppers, catchment areas can be 
a starting point for identifying which other supermarkets are likely to be close 
substitutes for the target site and therefore form part of the relevant market. 
Current shopping patterns of Glenmore Park residents 
48. During the course of its review, the ACCC received information on the current 
shopping patterns of Glenmore Park residents. Glenmore Park residents: 
 spend the majority of their supermarket expenditure at Woolworths Glenmore 
Park; 
 spend between 5 and 10% of their supermarket expenditure at Woolworths 
Southlands (South Penrith); and 
 spend around 20% of their supermarket expenditure at supermarkets in 
Penrith (this includes a Coles, a Woolworths, an ALDI and two Franklins3). 
49. The remainder of Glenmore Park residents’ supermarket expenditure is 
scattered across a range of suburbs, with no other single suburb attracting more 
than 1-2% of Glenmore Park residents’ total supermarket expenditure. 
50. The ACCC considered these figures carefully, and noted that they support the 
view that supermarket shoppers generally value convenience to home. 
Glenmore Park residents, overall, tend to undertake their supermarket shopping 
at Glenmore Park rather than elsewhere. However, as outlined below, various 
factors also limited the value of these figures to the definition of the relevant 
market. 
51. First, the ACCC does not consider that there is a particular amount of spending 
by residents of Glenmore Park at supermarkets located outside of Glenmore 
Park that is determinative of market definition.  
52. There may be a number of reasons why some Glenmore Park residents do 
some of their supermarket shopping outside Glenmore Park. For example, for 
some residents, supermarkets outside Glenmore Park may be close to 
employment, transport hubs or other shops or services. Other residents may 
prefer a supermarket offer other than Woolworths, and be prepared to incur 
additional travel costs and inconvenience to access that alternate offer. 
However, the fact that some Glenmore Park residents currently do some 
shopping at supermarkets outside of Glenmore Park does not establish that 
those residents (or other Glenmore Park residents) consider supermarket 
shopping outside Glenmore Park to be a close substitute for supermarket 
shopping in Glenmore Park, such that they would be likely to switch more of their 
grocery shopping to those supermarkets in the event that the supermarket offer 
in Glenmore Park were to be degraded.  
53. Second, the figures outlined at [48] to [49] above relate to current shopping 
patterns. There is currently only one supermarket within Glenmore Park – the 
Woolworths at Glenmore Park Town Centre. In the future, an ALDI will also open 
at the Glenmore Park Town Centre, and, as discussed above, a supermarket will 
also open at the target site. That is, the figures outlined at [48] to [49] above 
relate to neither the situation in which the proposed acquisition proceeds (and a 
Woolworths is developed at the target site), nor to the likely situation in the 
                                                 
3 
As noted earlier in this document, one of these Franklins is now an IGA, while the other has 
subsequently closed. 


 
Page 10 of 12 
absence of the proposed acquisition (in which a non-Woolworths supermarket is 
developed at the target site). 
54. The ACCC expects that once these two additional supermarkets have opened in 
Glenmore Park, Glenmore Park residents would do an even greater proportion of 
their total supermarket shopping at supermarkets within Glenmore Park, and 
would reduce the proportion of their shopping done in areas such as Penrith. 
55. Consistent with the material above, the ACCC concluded that, in the future, the 
three supermarkets located in the suburb of Glenmore Park would be the closest 
constraints on each other due to their geographic proximity (noting the 
differentiation of retail offerings between ALDI and Woolworths). 
56. The ACCC further concluded that to the extent that supermarkets outside of 
Glenmore Park impose any competitive constraint on supermarkets located in 
Glenmore Park, that constraint is limited, and is of insufficient strength for those 
supermarkets to be considered to be in the same local market as supermarkets 
located in Glenmore Park. 
Other relevant markets 
57. The ACCC also considered the proposed acquisition in relation to state-wide 
retail and wholesale markets covering NSW, but identified no competition 
concerns in relation to these markets. These markets are not considered further 
in this Public Competition Assessment. 
Likely effect of the proposed acquisition 
58. Many proposals involving the acquisition of greenfield supermarket sites (that is, 
where there is an acquisition or lease of a site that did not previously operate as 
a supermarket, as opposed to the acquisition of an existing supermarket) are not 
likely to raise significant concerns under section 50 of the Act. 
59. Generally speaking, the ACCC is more likely to have concerns with the 
acquisition of a new supermarket site where: 
 the proposed supermarket operator already has a significant presence in the 
local market; 
 if the proposed supermarket did not open on the site, then an alternative 
competitive supermarket would be likely to open on that site; and 
 the site is in an area where there is limited availability of alternative sites for 
potential competitors in the local market. 
60. For the reasons outlined below, the ACCC concluded that the proposed 
acquisition would be likely to result in a substantial lessening of competition in 
the local retail supermarket market by preventing or hindering competition that 
would likely otherwise have been brought to the local market by an alternative 
supermarket operator. This competition would be unlikely to be otherwise 
introduced into the local market because of the lack of other available suitable 
sites for supermarket development. 
The proposed acquisition increases Woolworths’ presence and prevents additional 
supermarket choice from being introduced into Glenmore Park 
61. Woolworths currently operates the only supermarket in Glenmore Park and the 
next closest supermarket outside of Glenmore Park. The ALDI opening in 2014 
will provide choice to consumers, and impose some competitive constraint on 


 
Page 11 of 12 
Woolworths. However, as noted above, ALDI generally does not provide the 
same depth of range as a full-line supermarket. 
62. The proposed acquisition by Woolworths of the target site would have the effect 
of reinforcing Woolworths' already significant presence in the local market and 
would also prevent a non-Woolworths supermarket from being established at the 
site. 
63. The retail offer of any non-Woolworths supermarket established at the target site 
would be likely to be significantly differentiated from Woolworths' retail offer in 
ways that improve the level of choice available to supermarket customers in 
Glenmore Park (including in terms of prices, quality and range of products and 
service). In the absence of that choice being available within Glenmore Park, 
residents with a preference for the different offer would either have to accept a 
sub-optimal choice of supermarket or incur costs of additional travel and 
inconvenience to access their preferred choice. In the absence of other 
convenient options, a much larger proportion of Glenmore Park residents’ 
current supermarket spending is done at Woolworths supermarkets than would 
be expected on the basis of general shopping patterns. 
64. In contrast, the development of a Woolworths supermarket at the target site 
would duplicate a retail offer already available in the local market. 
65. The proposed acquisition would therefore prevent a non-Woolworths 
supermarket from expanding the range of supermarket offers available to local 
customers. Importantly, the proposed acquisition would have this effect 
irrespective of how Woolworths would choose to respond to a non-Woolworths 
supermarket at the target site. 
The proposed acquisition removes the incentive for Woolworths to improve its local 
offer in response to the new supermarket 
66. The ACCC also considered that a non-Woolworths supermarket at the target site 
would introduce competition in the local market to which the existing Woolworths 
supermarket at Glenmore Park Town Centre would be likely to be forced to 
respond. Woolworths' response may include increased service, staffing levels or 
improvements in other non-price aspects of its retail offering. The additional 
competition may also result in Woolworths engaging in localised price-based 
competition. 
67. In contrast, the development of a Woolworths supermarket at the target site 
would not provoke a competitive response from the Woolworths at the Glenmore 
Park Town Centre. Woolworths would be indifferent as to which of its two 
supermarkets in Glenmore Park local residents visited. 
68. The proposed acquisition would therefore foreclose any possibility of Woolworths 
being forced to improve its local offer in response to a non-Woolworths 
supermarket being developed at the target site. 
Barriers to local entry 
69. As the ACCC has noted in previous reviews, barriers to entry to supermarket 
retailing are generally high. There are considerable lead times and sunk costs 
involved in establishing a new supermarket, which can pose a particular barrier 
when the market is already served by multiple existing supermarkets (particularly 
if they include a scaled incumbent). Lack of access to suitable sites can also be 
a significant barrier to new entry.  


 
Page 12 of 12 
70. The ACCC concluded that lack of access to suitable sites is a particular issue in 
this local market. This is because the target site is the only site in the local 
market (or in the suburbs surrounding the local market) that has both the size 
and the zoning necessary to develop a supermarket. Further, the ACCC 
understands that there are no plans for further development of the areas 
surrounding Glenmore Park or the target site in the foreseeable future.  
71. For these reasons, the ACCC concluded that there is little prospect of a full line 
supermarket entering the local market in the foreseeable future other than by 
developing the target site. 
Conclusion 
72. On the basis of the above, the ACCC formed the view that Woolworths’ 
proposed acquisition of the target site would be likely to result in a substantial 
lessening of competition in the local retail supermarket market surrounding the 
target site, in contravention of section 50 of the Act. 
 
