 
 
 
 
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
tel: (02) 6243 1368 
mergers@accc.gov.au
www.accc.gov.au
Our ref: 
IM-72407 
Contact officer:  Sahas Annavarapu / Emma Moulds 
Contact phone: (02) 9102 4048 / (08) 8456 3508  
20 December 2023 
Dear Interested Party 
Re: Request for submissions: Westpac’s proposed acquisition of HealthPoint 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
the proposed acquisition of HealthPoint, from Dedalus DH Australia Pty Ltd and Dedalus 
eHealth Australia Pty Ltd (together, Dedalus), by Westpac Investment Vehicle Pty Ltd, a 
wholly owned subsidiary of Westpac Banking Corporation (Westpac) (the proposed 
acquisition). Westpac intends to rename the subsidiary on or shortly after completion of 
the proposed acquisition, currently intended to be named HealthPoint Claims Pty Ltd. 
Westpac is one of four major banking organisations in Australia and provides a broad 
range of consumer, business, and institutional banking and wealth management services. 
Westpac’s Cash and Transactional Banking (CTB) line of business supports its customers’ 
cash and transactional banking needs. Westpac’s payment solutions business sits within 
CTB and assists merchants to accept and process card payments, both in person and 
online. Westpac is the only major Australian bank that does not currently offer an 
integrated healthcare e-claiming and payment solution.  
HealthPoint is an application which enables healthcare providers to process real time 
private health insurance claiming at the Point of Sale (POS). Through partnership with 
banking and other channel partners, HealthPoint supports EFTPOS and Medicare 
functionality. HealthPoint is a business of Dedalus, which is part of the Dedalus Group who 
is the leading global provider of healthcare and diagnostic software based in Europe.   
Further details are provided at Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact on competition.  In particular, we are 
seeking your views on: 
• 
the ability of Westpac to foreclose or otherwise frustrate the ability of banking or 
channel providers to compete to provide healthcare claiming POS. 
• 
whether the proposed acquisition could provide Westpac access to commercially 
sensitive information about HealthPoint’s banking and channel partners that could 
be used to harm competition. 


 
 
• 
the importance of HealthPoint being available to multiple banking and channel 
providers and whether any access restrictions would harm competition. 
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
Please provide your response by 16 January 2024 via email with the title: Submission re: 
Westpac/Health Point – attention Sahas Annavarapu/Emma Moulds. If you require more 
time to respond, please let us know. 
If you would like to arrange a time to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any 
questions about this letter, please contact Sahas Annavarapu on (02) 9102 4048 or Emma 
Moulds on (08) 8456 3508. 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public Mergers 
Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC treats sensitive information it receives during a merger review as confidential, 
and will not publish your submission. We will not disclose submissions to third parties 
(except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of 
information legislation or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the 
Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, we will notify you in advance where possible so that you have an opportunity 
to be heard. Therefore please clearly indicate if any information you provide is confidential. 
Our Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on 
confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
Daniel McCracken-Hewson 
General Manager  
Merger Investigations  
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
Attachment A – Overview of merger parties 
 
Westpac 
Westpac is an Australian bank which provides a broad range of consumer, business 
and institutional banking and wealth management services to its customers through a 
portfolio of financial services brands and businesses.  
Relevant to the proposed acquisition, Westpac’s Payment Solutions business assists 
merchants to accept and process card payments, both in person and online.  
HealthPoint / Dedalus Group 
HealthPoint is an application which enables healthcare providers to process 
electronic private health fund claims through EFTPOS terminals and other payment 
applications. 
HealthPoint is being carved out from Dedalus, which is part of the Dedalus Group. 
The Dedalus Group is a leading provider of healthcare and diagnostic software 
based in Europe and its software is used widely around the world.  
The Dedalus Group acquired HealthPoint in 2021 as part of a wider $525 million 
transaction of the healthcare software business of DXC Technology. HealthPoint was 
launched in 1998 when iSoft sought to create similar technology to HICAPS. iSoft 
was subsequently acquired in 2011 by CSC which then became DXC Technology.  
The proposed acquisition 
After a sale process commenced by Dedalus, Westpac and Dedalus entered into an 
agreement on 2 November 2023 whereby Westpac proposes to acquire HealthPoint 
from Dedalus. The proposed acquisition is subject to approval by the ACCC and 
other conditions precedent.  
Westpac considers that the proposed acquisition will allow it to expand its payments 
offering to support small business and commercial customers in healthcare – such as 
GPs, physiotherapists and other specialists – to provide on the spot e-health claiming 
for their patients. Westpac intends to set HealthPoint up as a subsidiary which would 
continue to provide services to HealthPoint’s existing partners. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
Attachment B – List of questions 
Overview of interest in proposed acquisition 
1. Provide a brief description of your business or organisation.  
2. Outline the reasons for your interest in the proposed acquisition, including any 
commercial relationship/s with Westpac and/or HealthPoint. 
Competition in the supply of real time private health insurance claiming 
3. What is your relationship with HealthPoint? For example, are you a customer who 
supplies services through HealthPoint, or are you a customer who uses 
HealthPoint in your medical clinic or healthcare business?  
4. If you are a customer of HealthPoint, please outline the reasons for which you 
use its services.  
5. What businesses compete with HealthPoint in the supply of real time private 
health insurance claiming? 
6. On what basis do suppliers of real time private health insurance claiming typically 
compete? For example, on price or service quality? 
7. Is there a benefit of using more than one real time private health insurance 
claiming system? If there is a benefit, describe the benefit and explain the 
proportion of claims processed via HealthPoint compared to other payment 
systems and why. 
8. What is the benefit/s of having an integrated real time private health insurance 
claiming platform, both commercially and for patients? 
9. Are there any benefits associated with a supplier of private health insurance 
claiming not being owned by a bank or channel partner? 
10. If you are a customer of HealthPoint, what proportion of your PHI claims are 
claimed at POS compared with being claimed with the insurer directly? 
Competition for healthcare provider customers 
11. Who are Westpac’s closest competitors in the supply of payment services to 
healthcare customers? 
12. Describe the payment services you receive, including whether: 
a. these payment services are exclusively supplied by Westpac, or if multiple 
payment service providers are used; 
b. the payment services are integrated with HealthPoint, or any other real 
time private health insurance claiming systems.  
13. If you are a competing supplier of healthcare payment services, please explain 
the value, if any, of HealthPoint’s data to your business and any other services 
you may supply. In your answer, please provide details of: 


 
 
a. how you use, or would use, the data, and how the data may improve the 
provision of your own services; 
b. whether Westpac having access to this data would hinder competition in 
the supply of healthcare payment services. 
Impact of the proposed acquisition 
14. Provide your views on whether, post-acquisition, Westpac would have the ability 
or incentive to: 
a. limit or deny access to HealthPoint for competing healthcare payment 
service providers (including worsening the terms on which access is 
provided)  
b. Combine services together (including bundling healthcare payment 
services with HealthPoint) 
c. raise any barriers for entities other than Westpac to integrate with 
HealthPoint 
d. increase prices for the integration with HealthPoint, and/or 
e. use commercially sensitive information regarding Healthpoint’s banking 
and channel partners to obtain a commercial advantage over competing 
healthcare POS providers.  
15. Provide your view on whether the proposed acquisition could affect the 
incentives of Westpac or current or future healthcare payment service providers 
to compete in real time private health insurance claiming by entering and/or 
developing their own real time private health insurance claiming platform. 
16. Comment on whether an alternative real time private health insurance claiming 
platform could be developed. Include in your response considerations on the 
benefits and challenges associated in the development of an alternative system, 
such as technology, cost, and integration requirements.  
17. Comment on whether there are any likely short to medium term industry 
developments that would impact competition in the supply of: 
a. healthcare payment services,  
b. real time private health insurance claiming software.  
Additional information 
18. Provide any additional information or comments that you consider relevant to the 
ACCC’s consideration of the proposed acquisition. 
 
 
