Page 1 of 7 
 
 
 
 
 
Public Competition Assessment 
 
11 February 2025 
Integral Diagnostics’ Proposed Acquisition of Capitol 
Health 
 
The ACCC’s decision 
1. 
On 10 December 2024, the ACCC announced its decision not to oppose Integral 
Diagnostics Limited’s (Integral Diagnostics) proposed acquisition of Capitol 
Health Limited (Capitol Health) (the Proposed Acquisition). The ACCC 
decided not to oppose the Proposed Acquisition after accepting a court- 
enforceable undertaking from Integral Diagnostics to divest Capitol Health’s 
clinic in Melton to an ACCC-approved purchaser (the Undertaking). 
2. 
The ACCC considered that the Proposed Acquisition, without the Undertaking, is 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in contravention of 
section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the Act). Section 50 
prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of 
substantially lessening competition in any market. The ACCC considered that 
the Undertaking sufficiently addresses the ACCC’s competition concerns such 
that the Proposed Acquisition is not likely to contravene section 50 of the Act. 
3. 
The ACCC most closely considered the competitive effects of the Proposed 
Acquisition in the following markets: 
▪ 
the supply of general diagnostic imaging (GDI) services in Melton, Bunbury 
and Busselton, and 
 
▪ 
the supply of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) services in the greater 
Western Melbourne area. 
4. 
The ACCC considered that, without the Undertaking, the Proposed Acquisition is 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in the supply of 
GDI services in the Melton region (the region within a ~10 km radius of Melton, 
Victoria). 
5. 
The ACCC considered that Integral Diagnostics and Capitol Health compete 
closely. The Proposed Acquisition would combine two of only three competitors 
in the Melton region. The ACCC considered that the other GDI service provider 


Page 2 of 7 
 
 
in the region, providers further away, and the prospect of new entry would not 
sufficiently constrain Integral Diagnostics from increasing its prices, decreasing its bulk 
billing rates, or reducing its service quality post-acquisition. Integral Diagnostics offered 
the Undertaking to address the ACCC’s competition concerns in this region. 
6. 
This Public Competition Assessment outlines reasons for the decision by the 
ACCC not to oppose the Proposed Acquisition, taking into account the 
Undertaking. 
7. 
Please note that this and other public competition assessments are subject to 
the following qualifications: 
▪ 
The ACCC considers each transaction on a case-by-case basis and so the 
analysis and decision outlined in one assessment will not necessarily 
reflect the ACCC’s view of another transaction. 
▪ 
As assessments are relatively brief and do not refer to confidential 
information, assessments do not necessarily set out all of the issues and 
information considered by the ACCC. 
The parties and the transaction 
The acquirer: Integral Diagnostics 
8. 
Integral Diagnostics is an ASX-listed company (ASX: IDX) that provides general 
diagnostic imaging, MRI and nuclear medicine services across Australia and 
New Zealand (trading as Apex Radiology in Western Australia and Lake Imaging 
and the X-Ray Group in Victoria). 
9. 
Integral Diagnostics currently operates 70 sites across New South Wales, 
Queensland, Victoria, and Western Australia, including 22 sites in Victoria and 6 
sites in Western Australia. 
The target: Capitol Health 
10. Capitol Health is an ASX-listed company (ASX: CAJ) that provides general 
diagnostic imaging, MRI and nuclear medicine services in Australia (trading as 
Capital Radiology in Western Australia and Capital Radiology, Direct Radiology, 
Future Medical Imaging Group (FMIG), Lime Avenue Radiology and Imaging @ 
Olympic Park in Victoria). 
11. Capitol Health currently operates 60 sites across South Australia, Tasmania, 
Victoria, and Western Australia, including 45 sites in Victoria and 8 sites in 
Western Australia. 
The transaction 
12. Integral Diagnostics proposes to acquire a 100% shareholding in Capitol Health, 
following which existing Integral Diagnostics shareholders would indicatively own 
~63% and existing Capitol Health shareholders would indicatively own ~37% of the 
merged entity. 


Page 3 of 7 
 
 
Market inquiries 
13. The ACCC conducted market inquiries with a range of industry participants, 
including competitors, potential competitors, referrers, regulatory agencies, and 
other interested parties. Submissions and data were sought in relation to the 
potential competition issues arising from the Proposed Acquisition. 
14. The ACCC also conducted targeted market consultation on the Undertaking. 
Industry background 
15. Radiology is a medical specialty that uses medical imaging to both diagnose and 
treat human injuries and illness, and can be broadly separated into three 
modalities: 
▪ 
GDI services which includes X-Ray, mammography, ultrasound, CT 
scans, and other basic scans 
▪ 
MRIs which use magnetic field and radio frequencies to develop detailed 
images of organs and tissues, and 
▪ 
nuclear medicine which uses small amounts of radioactive material to 
diagnose and treat diseases and conditions. 
Other industry participants 
16. Radiologists are doctors who specialise in the interpretation of diagnostic images 
and provide clinical reports. Sonographers and radiographers (medical imaging 
technologists) are medical professionals who operate the relevant diagnostic 
imaging machinery. 
17. Doctors, including general practitioners (GPs) and various other medical 
specialists, refer patients to radiology service providers. The ACCC’s inquiries 
indicate that medical practitioners will generally refer patients to clinics based on 
a range of factors including patient need, clinic location, established relationships 
between the referrer and radiologist, quality of service and reporting, waitlists, 
the range of services provided by the clinic (including whether they offer a full 
range of radiology services), and pricing (including the availability of bulk billing). 
18. While patients can take their referral form to any practice of their choice, the 
ACCC inquiries indicates that patients will typically visit the clinic they have been 
referred to. 
Areas of overlap 
19. Integral Diagnostics and Capitol Health both operate radiology clinics in various 
locations across Australia and overlap in Western Australia and Victoria. Integral 
Diagnostics and Capitol Health’s clinics typically provide GDI services, with 
some clinics also providing MRI and nuclear medicine services. 
20. In this matter, the ACCC most closely considered the effects of the Proposed 
Acquisition on local markets for the supply of: 


Page 4 of 7 
 
 
▪ 
GDI services in Melton, Bunbury, and Busselton, and 
▪ 
MRI services in the greater Western Melbourne region. 
Market definition 
21. The ACCC’s starting point for considering which markets will be affected by the 
Proposed Acquisition is to identify the areas of overlap between the products 
actually or potentially supplied by the merger parties. The ACCC then considers 
other actual or potential suppliers of those products, as well as what other 
products constitute sufficiently close substitutes to provide a significant source of 
constraint on the merged entity. 
22. In this matter, the ACCC considered the effects of the Proposed Acquisition in 
markets for the supply of: 
▪ 
GDI services 
▪ 
MRI services, and 
▪ 
nuclear medicine services. 
23. The ACCC considered each of these service categories as separate product 
markets given the limited substitutability between the various diagnostic imaging 
modalities and differences in availability and the distance patients travel to 
obtain each service. The ACCC also considered the possibility of supply-side 
substitution but found it unlikely given the differing requisite training and 
qualifications of staff, and the capital investments required. 
24. Consistent with previous matters, the ACCC considered the supply of GDI 
services, including x-ray, ultrasound and CT, as one product dimension given 
radiology practices tend to supply these modalities together, and the 
qualifications required by radiologists and technicians are consistent across the 
modalities. 
Geographic dimension 
25. Markets involving the supply of radiology services to patients are generally local 
in their geographic scope. For GDI services, the ACCC’s inquiries indicated that 
competition is localised, with most patients seeking to obtain services from local 
providers typically within 10 km of the patient’s home or the referring practitioner. 
However, the ACCC’s inquiries indicated patients may travel further to obtain 
MRI services given its more limited availability. 
26. While radiology providers largely compete at the local level, the ACCC also 
considered the potential for competitive impact of the Proposed Acquisition in a 
broader context focusing on Greater Melbourne, where Integral Diagnostics 
would have the largest number of diagnostic imaging clinics post-acquisition. 
27. Economies of scale and economies of density (particularly being able to share 
staff across several geographically close sites) may mean that individual sites or 
smaller networks are less able to compete effectively with larger networks, 
meaning broader geographic competitive effects can be relevant. 


Page 5 of 7 
 
 
28. The ACCC found that there are several alternative providers in Greater 
Melbourne, including providers with medium to large networks, that could be 
used to support expansion into new sites. 
 
Competition analysis in respect of the supply of GDI services in 
Melton 
29. In Melton, Integral Diagnostics operates Lake Imaging clinic and Capitol Health 
operates Capital Radiology clinic. 
30. The ACCC considers the market for the supply of GDI services in the Melton 
region is highly concentrated. The Proposed Acquisition would combine two of 
three radiology providers within a 10 km radius and significantly increase Integral 
Diagnostics’ market share post-acquisition. 
31. The ACCC found that Integral Diagnostics and Capitol Health are geographically 
close (within ~1.7 km), and as two major providers of radiology services, 
compete closely on factors such as bulk-billing practices, pricing, service quality, 
and service range in areas of overlap. In particular, the ACCC found that Capitol 
Health’s clinic offered patients high rates of bulk-billing and that this constraint 
would be lost post-acquisition. 
32. The ACCC found that there are few alternative radiology providers in the local 
area, with Lumus Imaging being the only remaining provider within a 10 km 
radius of the Capital Radiology clinic. Further, the ACCC’s investigation indicated 
that radiology providers located outside of the Melton region, including in the 
Gisborne, Sunbury, Werribee, and Greater Melbourne regions, were unlikely to 
provide meaningful constraint on Integral Diagnostics post-acquisition due to the 
majority of patients travelling less than 10 km to access radiology services. 
33. Additionally, the ACCC is not aware of any likely entry in the Melton region until 
the opening of Melton Hospital in 2029 and does not consider the threat of new 
entry or expansion would sufficiently constrain the merged entity post- 
acquisition. 
34. As such, the ACCC considered that, without the Undertaking, the Proposed 
Acquisition would be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening 
competition in the supply of GDI services in the Melton region. 
Competition analysis in respect of the supply of GDI 
services in Busselton 
 
35. In Busselton, Integral Diagnostics operates Apex Radiology clinic and Capitol 
Health operates Capital Radiology clinic. 
36. The ACCC’s investigation indicated that Vasse Radiology had recently entered 
the Busselton region in late 2024 and that it was likely to provide an effective 
competitive constraint on Integral Diagnostics post-acquisition. Additionally, 
market feedback identified SKG Radiology as a large competitor in the Busselton 
region with strong brand recognition and a high-quality offering. 


Page 6 of 7 
 
 
37. Accordingly, the ACCC concluded that the Proposed Acquisition is not likely to 
substantially lessen competition in the supply of GDI services in the Busselton 
region. 
 
Competition analysis in respect of the supply of GDI services in 
Bunbury 
38. In Bunbury, Integral Diagnostics operates Apex Radiology clinic and Capitol 
Health operates Capital Radiology clinic. 
39. The ACCC found that Integral Diagnostics will continue to be constrained by 
alternative providers in the Bunbury region, including SKG Radiology and DAB 
Radiology, which compete with the parties on factors such as bulk billing 
practices, pricing, quality, and service range. 
40. The ACCC’s inquiries also indicated that new entry in the Bunbury region was 
likely in the short to medium term, and that this new entry would likely provide a 
competitive constraint on the merged entity post-acquisition. 
41. Accordingly, the ACCC concluded that the Proposed Acquisition is not likely to 
substantially lessen competition in the supply of GDI services in the Bunbury 
region. 
 
Competition analysis in respect of the supply of MRI services in 
Greater Western Melbourne 
 
42. Integral Diagnostics and Capitol Health each supply MRI services in the Greater 
Western Melbourne region (the region within a ~30 km radius of Melton, 
Victoria). Integral diagnostics provides MRI services at 2 clinics and Capitol 
Health provides MRI services at 7 clinics in this region. 
43. The ACCC’s investigation identified 6 alternative MRI providers within the 
Greater Western Melbourne region that will continue to constrain the merged 
entity post-acquisition. Additionally, market participants indicated that MRI 
licensing changes in 2025 and 2027 are likely to reduce barriers to entry and 
expansion in the supply of MRI services and likely encourage new entry or 
expansion in the short to medium term.1 
44. On this basis, the ACCC concluded that the Proposed Acquisition would not be 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in the supply of 
MRI services in the Greater Western Melbourne region. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 Currently, MRI machines in MM1 areas require a license to attract MBS rebates, whereas all 
MRIs in MM2-MM7 are fully Medicare-rebatable. From 1 July 2025, any MM1 practice with a 
licence for at least one MRI machine will receive Medicare eligibility for all MRI equipment at the 
practice. From 1 July 2027, MRI licensing requirements will effectively cease, and all MRI 
machines will become fully rebatable across MM1-MM7. 


 
 
Undertakings 
45. In order to address the ACCC’s competition concerns in relation to the supply of 
GDI services in the Melton region, Integral Diagnostics offered an Undertaking 
pursuant to section 87B of the Act. 
46. The ACCC considers that the Undertaking will address its competition concerns 
with the Proposed Acquisition as it requires Integral Diagnostics to divest the 
Capitol Health clinic in Melton (the Divestiture Business), effectively removing 
the overlap between the parties in this region. The Undertaking aims to create a 
viable, effective, and independent competitor for the supply of GDI services in the 
Melton region. 
47. A copy of the Undertaking is available on the ACCC public informal merger 
reviews register and section 87B undertakings register. 
48. A brief summary of the Undertaking is set out below: 
▪ 
Integral Diagnostics will divest the Divestiture Business to an ACCC- 
approved purchaser, 
▪ 
Integral Diagnostics will ensure the purchaser has all the necessary 
associated assets and rights to compete effectively with IDX for the 
supply of GDI Services in the Melton region, 
▪ 
Integral Diagnostics must maintain the economic viability, marketability, 
competitiveness and goodwill of the Divestiture Business prior to 
divestiture, and 
▪ 
Integral Diagnostics must appoint and maintain an ACCC-approved 
independent auditor to provide for the effective oversight of Integral 
Diagnostics’ compliance with the Undertaking. 
Conclusion 
49. Based on the above analysis, the ACCC considers that, without the Undertaking, 
the Proposed Acquisition would be likely to have the effect of substantially 
lessening competition in the supply of GDI services in the Melton region. 
50. However, the ACCC considers that the Undertaking addresses these competition 
concerns such that, with the Undertaking, the Proposed Acquisition would not 
have the effect, nor be likely to have the effect, of substantially lessening 
competition in any market. 
 
