 
 
Land of the Gadigal people of the Eora Nation
Level 27, 135 King Street
Sydney NSW 2000
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
Tel 02 9230 9133
www.accc.gov.au
 
Our ref: 
IM-72633 
5 September 2024 
 
 
Dear Interested Party  
Re: ACCC seeking your views: Integral Diagnostics’ proposed acquisition of Capitol Health  
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on the 
proposed acquisition of Capitol Health Limited (Capitol Health) by Integral Diagnostics 
Limited (Integral Diagnostics) (the Proposed Acquisition). 
Integral Diagnostics and Capitol Health both operate multi-site radiography and radiology 
clinics in various locations across Australia. Integral Diagnostics and Capitol Health’s clinics 
typically provide general diagnostic imaging services, with some clinics also providing 
magnetic resonance imaging services (MRI) and nuclear medicine services.                         
Further information on the merger parties and industry background is provided at 
Attachment A.  
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact that the Proposed Acquisition would 
have on competition, particularly in the following geographic regions (together, the Local 
Areas of Overlap): 
• 
greater Western Melbourne/Melton region in Victoria 
• 
Bunbury in Western Australia, and 
• 
Busselton in Western Australia.   
In particular, with reference to the Local Areas of Overlap, we are seeking your views on:  
• 
how closely Integral Diagnostics and Capitol Health compete in the supply of (i) 
general diagnostic imaging, (ii) MRI, and (iii) nuclear medicine services (together, 
radiology services) 
• 
the likely impact on prices, quality, and service levels in the supply of (i) general 
diagnostic imaging, (ii) MRI, and (iii) nuclear medicine services if the proposed 
acquisition proceeds, and 
• 
whether customers of Integral Diagnostics and/or Capitol Health would have access 
to alternative providers (actual and/or potential) if the proposed acquisition 
proceeds.  
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested.  
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the Proposed Acquisition is in section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market.  


 
 
2
Please provide your response by 5pm AEST on 19 September 2024 via email to 
mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: Submission re: Integral Diagnostics / Capitol Health. If 
you require more time to respond, please let us know. 
If you would like to arrange a time to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any 
questions about this letter, please contact mergers@accc.gov.au.  
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public Mergers 
Register at ACCC mergers register. 
 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC treats sensitive information it receives during a merger review as confidential, 
and will not publish your submission. We will not disclose submissions to third parties 
(except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom 
of information legislation or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of 
the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to disclose 
confidential information, we will notify you in advance where possible so that you have an 
opportunity to be heard. Therefore please clearly indicate if any information you provide is 
confidential. Our Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on 
confidentiality. 
 
Yours sincerely  
 
Morag Bond 
General Manager 
Merger Investigations  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
3
Attachment A – Overview of the merger parties and the Proposed Acquisition 
 
Integral Diagnostics  
 
Integral Diagnostics is an ASX-listed company (ASX: IDX) that provides general diagnostic 
imaging, MRI, and nuclear medicine services across Australia and New Zealand (trading as 
Apex Radiology in Western Australia and Lake Imaging and the X-Ray Group in Victoria).  
 
Integral Diagnostics currently operates 70 sites across New South Wales, Queensland, 
Victoria, and Western Australia, including 21 sites in Victoria and six sites in Western 
Australia.  
 
Capitol Health 
 
Capitol Health is an ASX-listed company (ASX: CAJ) that provides general diagnostic 
imaging, MRI, and nuclear medicine services in Australia (trading as Capital Radiology in 
Western Australia and Capital Radiology, Direct Radiology, Future Medical Imaging Group 
(FMIG), Lime Avenue Radiology, and Imaging @ Olympic Park in Victoria). 
 
Capitol Health currently operates more than 60 sites across South Australia, Tasmania, 
Victoria, and Western Australia, including 46 sites in Victoria and 8 sites in Western 
Australia. 
 
 
Areas of overlap  
 
Integral Diagnostics and Capitol Health overlap in the supply of general diagnostic imaging 
services, MRI services, and nuclear medicine services across metropolitan and/or regional 
locations in Victoria and Western Australia, including: 
 
• 
general diagnostic imaging, MRI, and nuclear medicine services in the greater 
metropolitan Melbourne area 
• 
general diagnostic imaging services in the greater metropolitan Perth area 
• 
MRI services in the Fremantle/South Perth area 
• 
general diagnostic imaging, MRI, and nuclear medicine services in Melton, Victoria, 
and 
• 
general diagnostic imaging services in Bunbury and Busselton, Western Australia. 
 
The Proposed Acquisition  
 
Integral Diagnostics proposes to acquire a 100% shareholding in Capitol Health, following 
which existing Integral Diagnostics shareholders would indicatively own ~63% and existing 
Capitol Health shareholders would indicatively own ~37% of the merged entity.  
 
Radiology services 
 
Radiology is a medical specialty that uses medical imaging to both diagnose and treat 
human injuries and illness, and can be broadly separated into three modalities: 
 
• 
general diagnostic imaging which includes X-Ray, mammography, ultrasound, CT 
scans, and other basic scans 
• 
MRIs which use magnetic field and radio frequencies to develop detailed images of 
organs and tissues, and 


 
 
4
• 
nuclear medicine which uses small amounts of radioactive material to diagnose and 
treat diseases and conditions. 
 
 


 
 
5
Attachment B – List of questions 
 
1. Please describe your business or organisation and explain your interest in the Proposed 
Acquisition, including any commercial relationship(s) with Integral Diagnostics and/or 
Capitol Health.  
Competition in general diagnostic imaging, MRI, and nuclear medicine services 
2. How do private radiology providers typically compete with one another? What steps 
could a provider take to increase the number of referrals it receives? 
3. How do private radiology providers typically set prices? To what extent are prices 
standardised across clinics? 
4. Describe how closely Integral Diagnostics competes with Capitol Health in the supply of 
(i) general diagnostic imaging, (ii) MRI, and (iii) nuclear medicine services in Local Areas 
of Overlap. Relevant factors may include pricing (including bulk billing practices), 
location, opening hours of clinics, customers served (e.g. inpatients and outpatients) and 
the range and quality (e.g. accuracy and speed) of radiology services provided. Please 
provide specific examples where possible. 
5. How far will a patient typically travel to obtain radiology services? How does this differ 
between different types of radiology services or patient’s location? Provide justification 
where possible.  
6. What radiology services are available in each Local Area of Overlap competing with 
Integral Diagnostics and/or Capitol Health? How do these compare to Integral 
Diagnostics and/or Capitol Health in terms of price, quality, and service range offered to 
patients? 
7. To what extent do private providers of radiology services compete with public providers 
of radiology services for outpatient referrals?  
8. Please describe any regulatory requirements that would prevent Integral Diagnostics 
from being able to increase prices or reduce service quality levels post-acquisition? How 
does this differ between different types of radiology services? 
9. We understand that from 1 July 2027, all comprehensive diagnostic imaging practices 
will have their ineligible MRI machines upgraded to access all Medicare funded MRI 
services, at which point, all MRI licensing requirements will cease. In your view, is this 
likely to have a material impact on competitive dynamics in the supply of MRI services? 
Please provide reasons for your answer.  
Barriers to entry and expansion  
10. Please describe what is required to enter into or expand in the supply of (i) general 
diagnostic imaging, (ii) MRI, and (iii) nuclear medicine services. Please address the 
likelihood of such entry or expansion, including consideration of factors such as:  
a. timeframe for market entry, including to develop a reputation and referral base 
b. costs that would be incurred 
c. regulatory requirements 
d. scale required to be competitive 
e. availability of appropriate sites 


 
 
6
f. availability of staff with requisite training and expertise 
g. ability to access to wholesale supply of products 
h. existing reputations and relationships established by incumbent providers, and  
i. 
examples of recent or failed entry. 
Other questions 
11. Please provide any additional information or comments, or identify other competition issues, 
that you consider relevant to the ACCC’s consideration of the Proposed Acquisition. 
