 
Page 1 of 20 
 
 
Statement of Issues 
21 October 2015 
GPC Asia Pacific Pty Ltd –  
proposed acquisition of the Covs Parts business from 
Automotive Holdings Group Limited 
Purpose 
1. 
This Statement of issues aims to: 
 
give the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission’s (ACCC) 
preliminary views on competition issues arising from GPC Asia Pacific Pty 
Ltd’s (GPC) proposed acquisition of the Covs Parts business (Covs) from 
Automotive Holdings Group Limited (AHG) (the proposed acquisition) 
 
identify areas of further inquiry 
 
give all parties an opportunity to comment 
 
invite interested parties to submit information to assist us in our 
assessment of the issues. 
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views 
2. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is 
in section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits 
acquisitions that substantially lessen competition in a market, or are likely to do 
so.  
3. 
In this Statement of Issues, the ACCC has divided its preliminary views into two 
categories, 'issues of concern' and ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’. 
Issues of concern 
4. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition would substantially lessen 
competition in the supply of automotive hard parts and accessories (automotive 
parts) to trade customers in the local markets of Albany, Bunbury, Busselton, 
Esperance, Geraldton, Kalgoorlie, Karratha, Mandurah and Port Hedland. 
5. 
In each of the local markets identified above, GPC would become the only 
generalist supplier of automotive parts or one of two generalist suppliers of 
automotive parts. 


 
Page 2 of 20 
 
Issues unlikely to raise concerns 
6. 
The ACCC considers that the proposed acquisition would be unlikely to 
substantially lessen competition in the supply of automotive parts in the greater 
metropolitan Perth region due to the presence of existing competitive 
constraints. 
7. 
The ACCC considers that the proposed acquisition would be unlikely to 
substantially lessen competition in the supply of automotive parts to mining and 
industrial customers due to the minimal competitive overlap between the parties.  
Making a submission 
8. 
The ACCC is seeking submissions from interested parties, particularly on the 
following key issues: 
 
the product market, including the extent to which original equipment parts 
are substitutable for aftermarket parts; 
 
the geographic dimensions of each of the local markets, including the 
extent to which suppliers located in Perth are close substitutes to suppliers 
located in each of the regional areas (and particularly in Bunbury, 
Busselton and Mandurah); 
 
whether the loss of Covs would have a meaningful impact on competition 
and consumer choice in local markets;  
 
the availability of substitutes to competitively constrain the pricing activities 
of the merged entity in each of the local markets; and 
 
the likelihood of sufficient entry or expansion in each of the local markets 
within the foreseeable future. 
9. 
Detailed discussion of these and other issues, along with specific questions, is 
contained in this Statement of Issues.  
10. 
Interested parties should provide submissions by no later than 5pm on 5 
November 2015. Responses may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the 
title: Submission re: GPC’s proposed acquisition of Covs Parts - attention Kate 
Reader/Serena Wong. If you would like to discuss the matter with ACCC officers 
over the telephone or in person, or have any questions about this letter, please 
contact Serena Wong on (02) 9230 9188 or Kate Reader on (02) 9230 3822.  
11. 
The ACCC anticipates making a final decision on 26 November 2015, however, 
this timeline can change. To keep abreast of possible changes in relation to 
timing and to find relevant documents, interested parties should visit the Mergers 
Register on the ACCC's website at www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
Confidentiality of submissions 
12. 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We 
will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) 
unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation 
or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition 


 
Page 3 of 20 
 
and Consumer Act 2010.  Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where possible so that you may 
have an opportunity to be heard.  Therefore, if the information provided to the 
ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines contain more information. 
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’ 
13. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well 
as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
14. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 
Timeline 
Date 
Event 
26 August 2015 
ACCC commenced review of the proposed 
acquisition 
21 October 2015 
ACCC publication of Statement of Issues 
5 November 2015 
Deadline for submissions from interested parties in 
response to this Statement of Issues 
26 November 2015 
Anticipated date for ACCC final decision (this date 
may be delayed) 
The parties 
The acquirer 
15. 
GPC (owned by Genuine Parts Company) is a distributor and retailer of 
automotive parts in Australia and New Zealand to both trade and retail 
customers. GPC owns Repco, an automotive parts supplier to trade and retail 
customers and Ashdown-Ingram (AI), a specialist supplier of automotive 
electrical parts to trade, reseller, mining and industrial customers.  
16. 
In Western Australia, GPC operates 36 Repco stores and 8 AI branches. Repco 
supplies aftermarket (non-genuine) automotive parts and does not supply 
original equipment (OE) parts. 
The target 
17. 
AHG acquired Covs from the Coventry Group in 2011. Covs operates a 25 
branch network in Western Australia and supplies a broad range of automotive 
parts, primarily to trade customers. Covs has three business streams: 
 
automotive hard parts, consumables, tools and workshop equipment; 


 
Page 4 of 20 
 
 
mining and industrial sector – this part of the business supplies automotive 
and other parts (such as safety products, chemicals, cleaning and janitorial 
products) to mining and industrial customers across Australia and 
overseas; and 
 
drivetrain – this is a specialist business unit which focuses on truck 
driveline assemblies and components such as gearbox, clutch, drive shafts 
and hubs. 
18. 
Covs supplies both OE and aftermarket automotive parts, and is currently the 
exclusive distributor of Ford and Holden OE parts to OE dealers and trade 
customers in Western Australia. Post-acquisition, AHG intends to retain the 
exclusive distribution of Ford and Holden OE parts in Western Australia within 
Amcap, a division of AHG.  
19. 
Amcap provides warehousing and distribution of OE spare parts and automotive 
consumables to customers. It distributes products (including through Covs 
stores) to OE dealers throughout Australia out of its distribution centre in 
Welshpool, Perth. Amcap is not part of the proposed acquisition.  
Other industry participants 
Burson 
20. 
Burson Auto Parts (Burson) is a trade-focused supplier of automotive parts with 
over 100 stores across Australia. In 2015, Burson purchased Metcash’s 
automotive business, which includes the Autobarn and AutoPro chains. Burson 
previously sought to acquire Covs in 2014 but this transaction did not proceed. In 
Western Australia, Burson operates 3 stores in Malaga, Belmont and Osborne 
Park in the greater metropolitan Perth region, and owns the Autobarn and 
AutoPro stores across Western Australia.  
Veale 
21. 
Veale Auto Parts (Veale) is a trade-focused generalist supplier of automotive 
parts in Western Australia. Veale has 17 stores in Western Australia, with 15 
stores in the greater metropolitan Perth region and two stores in regional areas 
(Bunbury and Mandurah). 
Retail-focused suppliers 
22. 
Suppliers with a strong focus on retail customers operating in Western Australia 
include: 
 
Super Cheap Auto (SCA), a nationwide retailer of automotive parts with 28 
stores across Western Australia; 
 
Auto Barn, which operates a franchised business, stocking a range of 
automotive parts primarily aimed at retail customers; there are 7 stores 
operating under this brand in Western Australia; 
 
Auto Pro, which supplies to both trade and retail customers; there are 18 
stores operating under the Auto Pro brand in Western Australia, including 3 
‘superstores’; and 


 
Page 5 of 20 
 
 
Auto One, an independent, member-owned automotive parts group 
operating from 5 stores in Western Australia, located in Kalgoorlie, 
Geraldton, Midland, Kalamunda and Wanneroo. 
23. 
The extent to which retail-focused suppliers competitively constrain the activities 
of trade-focused suppliers is considered further below.  
Capricorn 
24. 
Capricorn Buying Group (Capricorn) is a buying group with over 15,800 
members and 2,000 preferred suppliers in Australia (including Repco and Covs). 
It offers its trade members: 
 
single account invoicing for all group purchases (rather than individual 
invoices from many suppliers);  
 
access to a range of preferred suppliers for its members and in doing so 
enables channel-skipping, with purchases made direct from manufacturers; 
and  
 
delivery times and transport prices, negotiated on behalf of its trade 
customer members. 
Industry background 
25. 
In Australia, the majority of automotive parts are acquired from offshore 
manufacturers or local third party importers. Manufacturers include: 
 
OE manufacturers, who sell new motor vehicles in Australia. All OE 
manufacturers either manufacture ‘genuine’ or ‘branded’ spare parts, which 
the OE manufacturers then distribute through their OE dealer network (for 
use in the OE dealers own service centres), via OE dealers to non-
affiliated end users (such as independent workshops) or through 
distributors such as Covs. 
 
Aftermarket manufacturers, who manufacture aftermarket parts to precisely 
match the relevant functional and technical specifications of OE parts, but 
which are not branded as OE parts or sold on behalf of OE manufacturers.  
26. 
OE and aftermarket parts are distributed by various wholesalers/intermediary 
resellers, including: 
 
generalist automotive parts resellers (such as Repco and Covs); 
 
specialist resellers, who specialise in dealing in a particular set or sets of 
components or parts (such as AI); 
 
OE parts resellers, including OE dealers; and  
 
direct supply to end users by the manufacturer/importer (including through 
Capricorn). 
27. 
OE and aftermarket parts are acquired by a wide range of users of automotive 
parts, including retail customers/DIY repairers and vehicle repairers such as: 


 
Page 6 of 20 
 
 
independent vehicle repairers; 
 
mechanical vehicle repair chains; 
 
specialist repairers; 
 
dealer service centres (which includes single brand dealers with one 
service centre dedicated to their single make of car, multiple brand dealers 
with separate workshops for each car make and multiple brand dealers 
with combined workshops which service several makes of cars). 
28. 
Different classes of end users have varying demand characteristics, which 
influences the distribution models and service offerings of distributors and 
resellers. In particular, market feedback has indicated that resellers tend to focus 
on supplying automotive parts to either trade customers or to retail customers, 
due to the differing requirements of these two kinds of customers. This is further 
discussed below.  
The proposed transaction 
29. 
GPC proposes to acquire Covs from AHG, through the purchase of 100% of the 
shares in Covs Parts Pty Ltd, the corporate entity in which the Covs business 
currently resides. GPC has indicated that it would retain the Covs brand and 
continue operating existing Covs as standalone stores. 
Future with and without the acquisition  
30. 
Section 50 of the Act prohibits mergers or acquisitions that would have the effect 
or be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
In assessing a proposed acquisition pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC 
considers the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future competitive 
environment post-acquisition if the acquisition proceeds (the “with” position) to 
the likely future competitive environment if the acquisition does not proceed (the 
“without” position) to determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in any relevant market. 
31. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the likely competition effects of the 
proposed transaction are most appropriately assessed against a future in which 
competition remains broadly as it currently stands (the status quo).   
32. 
It is possible that in the absence of the proposed acquisition by GPC, another 
buyer would acquire Covs. However, based on presently available information, 
the ACCC does not consider that any such alternative transaction is likely to alter 
its view as to the appropriate ‘future without’ against which to assess the 
proposed acquisition. 
Market Definition 
33. 
The ACCC’s starting point for delineating relevant markets to assess the 
competitive effects of the proposed acquisition involves identifying the products 
actually or potentially supplied by the merger parties. The ACCC then considers 
what other products constitute sufficiently close substitutes to provide a 
significant source of constraint on the merged entity. 


 
Page 7 of 20 
 
Areas of overlap 
34. 
The ACCC understands that the merger parties overlap in the supply of 
automotive hard parts, consumables and tools.  
35. 
The ACCC considers that the key area of competitive overlap between the 
parties to the proposed acquisition is in the supply of automotive parts to trade 
customers in the following areas of Western Australia: 
 
36. 
Maps of the above areas of Western Australia and the industry participants’ 
operations are set out below. 


 
Page 8 of 20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
Page 9 of 20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
Page 10 of 20 
 
 
 
Product market  
37. 
The ACCC considers the relevant product market to be the supply of automotive 
hard parts to trade customers, which the ACCC understands is generally 
different from the types of automotive parts acquired by retail customers, 
although there may be some overlap between the two.  
Trade customers 
38. 
The ACCC considers that there are separate markets for the supply of 
automotive parts to trade customers and to retail customers, due to their different 
demand characteristics. The ACCC notes that while some suppliers, such as 
Repco, supply both trade and retail customers, the products and services 
required by these customers are different. The ACCC understands that Repco 
employs a ‘dual format’ stores, in which it services both trade and retail 
customers.  
39. 
In general, trade customers do not view retail-focused suppliers (such as SCA 
and Auto Pro) as substitutable for trade-focused suppliers (such as Covs and 
Repco), due to their business needs. For instance, a number of trade customers 
have identified retail-focused stores as:  
 
not stocking the range or volume of products commonly required by trade 
customers for servicing and repairing vehicles;  
 
not providing delivery services required by trade customers; and  
 
not providing the same quality of customer service (primarily due to limited 
staff knowledge and expertise).  
40. 
Market feedback also indicated that trade-focused suppliers have a network of 
delivery and transport options, which allows parts to be delivered on a frequent 


 
Page 11 of 20 
 
and timely basis to trade customers. In particular, market feedback suggested 
that trade workshops typically cannot carry their own inventory, operating a just-
in-time model. Accordingly, timeliness of supply and delivery for trade customers 
is crucial.  
41. 
In addition, some trade customers have highlighted the benefit of trade pricing 
offered by trade-focused suppliers, which is generally lower than retail pricing. 
OE parts 
42. 
The ACCC notes that the key competitive overlap between the two parties is in 
the supply of aftermarket parts to trade customers, given that Repco does not 
supply OE parts. However, market feedback indicated that trade customers 
purchase a mix of OE and aftermarket parts. In this respect, while the ACCC 
understands that aftermarket parts are functionally substitutable for OE parts, the 
majority of market feedback has indicated that OE parts and aftermarket parts 
are not demand-side substitutes as OE parts are significantly more expensive 
than aftermarket parts – anywhere from 20% to 80% more expensive, depending 
on the relevant part). For this reason, market participants have submitted that 
OE parts do not provide a strong competitive constraint on the pricing of 
aftermarket parts. 
43. 
Market participants have submitted that the decision to purchase OE parts is 
driven by factors other than price, such as where: 
 
the end user specifically requests the use of OE parts in their vehicles; 
 
the end user’s vehicle is still under warranty (OE parts are used to ensure 
the warranty is not void); some market feedback also suggested that as 
warranty periods are being extended by dealers, there is an increase in 
the demand for OE parts; and 
 
the trade customer is a dealership and is required by the relevant car 
manufacturer to use OE parts where possible. 
44. 
The ACCC has received some market feedback to the effect that OE parts are 
similarly priced. The ACCC welcomes further information as to any trend in OE 
parts becoming more price competitive with aftermarket parts in recent years. 
45. 
The ACCC also understands that a number of car manufacturers have trade 
clubs to encourage the purchase of OE parts. The Holden Trade Club, for 
example, states that it stocks Holden and ACDelco parts at lower than normal 
trade prices.
1 The ACCC is also aware of the Ford Trade Club and the 
GetGenuine Club which aims to encourage the purchase of OE parts. However, 
the ACCC understands that the demand for OE parts from trade clubs may be 
limited to specific manufacturers and vehicle models. 
46. 
The ACCC is further considering the extent to which new technological 
developments in car manufacturing and repairs is impacting on the demand for 
OE parts, particularly in light of the potentially lower prices of OE parts sold by 
trade clubs and other suppliers. For instance, market feedback indicated that 
                                                 
 
1
 https://www.holdentradeclub.com.au/HoldenParts 
 


 
Page 12 of 20 
 
with newer vehicles with electronic components, OE dealers can use an 
electronic parts catalogue to check which parts of a vehicle need to be replaced 
or repaired, which would then recommend an OE part (as opposed to an 
aftermarket part). However, this may represent a shift in the demand for OE 
parts, rather than customers switching from aftermarket parts to OE parts on the 
basis of a price constraint. The ACCC invites any additional information on the 
extent to which trade clubs constrain generalist suppliers of aftermarket parts 
and the extent to which new vehicle repair technologies and new makes and 
models of vehicles is influencing the demand for OE parts (particularly in 
comparison to the demand for aftermarket parts).  
47. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that OE parts do not compete strongly with 
aftermarket parts due to the limited willingness of trade customers to switch from 
aftermarket parts to OE parts due to the price differential between these 
products, which would likely remain even after a significant price rise for 
aftermarket parts. Accordingly, the key area of competitive overlap between the 
merger parties is in the supply of aftermarket automotive parts, with OE parts 
offering a limited constraint. However, the ACCC notes that it has received 
mixed feedback in this respect and would welcome any further information 
regarding the degree of price competition between OE parts and aftermarket 
parts. 
Specialist resellers 
48. 
As mentioned above, Covs and Repco are generalist resellers of automotive 
parts, therefore providing a full range of automotive parts to their customers. In 
general, market feedback suggested that trade customers source the vast 
majority of their automotive parts from either Covs or Repco, purchasing only a 
minimal proportion of parts from specialist resellers, or on an ad hoc basis. The 
ACCC understands that certain trade customers, depending on the focus of their 
workshop, may have a higher demand for specialist parts and accordingly, 
purchase a more significant proportion of their parts from specialist suppliers. 
49. 
The ACCC also understands that there is limited supply side substitutability on 
the part of specialist resellers, given the different range of automotive parts 
offered by specialist resellers and generalist resellers. Accordingly, the ACCC’s 
preliminary view is that specialist resellers offer only a limited competitive 
constraint to the merger parties.  
Geographic market dimension 
50. 
Market inquiries suggested that the proposed acquisition should be considered 
in the context of the local markets of Albany, Bunbury, Busselton, Esperance, 
Geraldton, Kalgoorlie, Karratha, Mandurah and Port Hedland, due to the demand 
characteristics of trade customers and the weak supply-side substitutability of 
automotive parts providers located outside of these areas. 
51. 
The majority of trade customers emphasised the importance of the availability 
and timely delivery of parts to their business operations. Market feedback 
indicated the majority of parts are required on a same-day basis. Accordingly, 
trade customers have a strong preference to source automotive parts from local 
suppliers due to their ability to provide same-day (as opposed to overnight) 
delivery, with most local suppliers offering free hourly deliveries. In this respect, 
trade customers have indicated that timeliness of supply is critical and a driving 
factor in selecting a supplier of automotive parts, given that delays in returning a 


 
Page 13 of 20 
 
vehicle to an end user involve reputational risks to the business of the trade 
customer. 
52. 
Price is also a key factor to trade customers’ choice of supplier. A number of 
customers have indicated their preference for local suppliers due to free delivery 
offered with purchases of automotive parts or alternatively, the minimal distance 
required to travel in order to pick up the purchased parts. Where an automotive 
part is not in stock, the local supplier can order the part in without charging 
additional freight to the customer.  
53. 
As a result, trade customers have indicated a general reluctance to order parts 
from Perth or interstate because of the cost of freight and the potential for 
delayed delivery, particularly to more remote areas of Western Australia.  
54. 
Based on market inquiries to date, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the 
proposed acquisition appears likely to give rise to competition concerns in each 
of the local markets identified above. The ACCC is considering the dimensions 
of the affected local markets and in particular, the extent to which the local 
markets of Bunbury and Busselton, and Mandurah and Perth overlap.  
Bunbury and Busselton 
55. 
Market feedback indicated that trade customers in Bunbury and Busselton 
source automotive parts from their local Repco and Covs branches and the 
Veale’s branch located in Bunbury. However, the level of demand substitutability 
between Busselton and Bunbury appears to be low, with trade customers 
located in Busselton purchasing only minimal volumes of product from Veale’s 
Bunbury branch. Market feedback suggested that Busselton trade customers 
consider Veale to be a secondary option due to the relatively low frequency of 
Veale’s deliveries to Busselton (three times a day), compared to local suppliers 
(hourly).  
Mandurah and Perth 
56. 
Although trade customers in Mandurah have expressed a strong preference for 
sourcing automotive parts from local suppliers, market feedback has identified 
the potential for same day delivery of parts from suppliers in Perth to customers 
in Mandurah. However, some trade customers have noted that unlike local 
suppliers, Perth suppliers cannot deliver on an hourly basis and may only be 
able to deliver once or twice a day. In addition, Perth suppliers may charge an 
additional courier fee.   
Albany, Esperance, Geraldton, Kalgoorlie, Karratha and Port Hedland  
57. 
Due to the relatively isolated nature of regional towns in Western Australia and 
the need for timely delivery of parts, most interested parties indicated that they 
purchase the vast majority of automotive parts from local suppliers, and only 
consider suppliers in Perth or other regions where parts are not available locally 
(and cannot be ordered by a local supplier) or where parts are not urgently 
required.  
58. 
As mentioned above, interested parties have indicated a reluctance to order 
automotive parts from Perth or other regional areas due to the cost of freight and 
longer delivery times. This reluctance is further heightened by the fact that local 
suppliers (in most cases, the merger parties) are able to transfer products from 


 
Page 14 of 20 
 
other areas without charging additional costs for freight (at least where the 
product is normally stocked by that supplier). Accordingly, the ACCC considers 
that online suppliers of automotive parts and suppliers located in Perth and 
interstate only offer a limited competitive constraint.  
Preliminary view on relevant markets 
59. 
Based on information received by the ACCC to date, the ACCC’s preliminary 
view is that the markets relevant for assessing the competition effects of the 
acquisition are the markets for the supply of automotive parts to trade customers 
in each of the local markets of Albany, Esperance, Bunbury, Busselton, 
Geraldton, Kalgoorlie, Karratha, Mandurah and Port Hedland. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary views about 
the definition of the relevant market. In particular market participants may wish to 
comment on: 
 
the extent to which retail-focused suppliers compete with trade-focused suppliers;  
 
the extent to which specialist resellers compete with generalist resellers; 
 
whether trade customers use trade clubs (such as Holden Trade Club or the 
GetGenuine Trade Club) to purchase OE parts and if so, whether the prices of OE 
parts are competitive with the prices of aftermarket parts; 
 
the geographic boundaries of each of the local markets. In particular, whether 
Bunbury, Busselton and Mandurah should be considered as a single region or as 
separate areas of competition; in this respect, please consider the extent to which: 
 
o 
customers operating in Bunbury would purchase products from  
                       Busselton and vice versa; and  
o 
customers operating  in Mandurah would purchase products from Perth; 
 
 
the extent to which trade customers operating in each of the local markets 
purchase automotive parts from Perth, online or interstate, or would do so if the 
merged entity increased the prices of automotive parts.  
Issue of concern: supply of automotive parts to trade 
customers in local markets 
60. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in the supply of automotive parts to trade 
customers in each of the local markets of Albany, Bunbury, Busselton, 
Esperance, Geraldton, Kalgoorlie, Karratha, Mandurah and Port Hedland. 
61. 
Based on market inquiries to date, the ACCC is concerned that the proposed 
acquisition would result in an increased incentive on the part of the merged entity 
to raise prices and/or decrease service levels.   
Reducing the number of local suppliers  
62. 
As discussed above, the ACCC considers that specialist resellers and OE 
dealers would exercise only a limited competitive constraint on the merged 
entity. The proposed acquisition would accordingly remove an effective 


 
Page 15 of 20 
 
generalist supplier of automotive parts from each of the local markets, leaving 
Veale as the only other generalist supplier in Bunbury and Mandurah and no 
other generalist suppliers in the other local markets.  
63. 
At the local level the acquisition of Covs would reduce the number of generalist 
suppliers owned by separate entitles in the relevant local markets from three to 
two, or two to one. 
64. 
In Bunbury, Busselton and Mandurah, GPC would own two out of the three 
generalist trade suppliers.  The ACCC notes that in relation to Mandurah a 
Burson store opening in the surrounding area may reduce GPC’s incentive to 
raise prices or decrease service levels. 
65. 
In Albany, Esperance, Kalgoorlie, Karratha, Geraldton and Port Hedland, GPC 
would own both generalist trade suppliers. Market feedback indicated that while 
there is an alternative generalist reseller in Kalgoorlie, that supplier is effectively 
a reseller of Covs’ products. Further market feedback also indicated that the 
Mach One/Auto One is retail-focused and does not provide a wide range of ‘hard 
parts’ required by trade customers. Accordingly, market feedback suggested that 
GPC would be the only generalist supplier of automotive parts to trade 
customers in each of these local markets post-acquisition. 
Removal of closest competitor 
66. 
Market inquiries indicated that Repco and Covs compete closely in the supply of 
automotive parts to trade customers in the local markets identified. Some 
customers have indicated that Repco has a stronger retail focus than Covs but 
for the vast majority of customers, Repco and Covs appear to be generally 
substitutable in their supply of automotive parts to trade customers.  
67. 
During the course of market inquiries, trade customers submitted their 
preference for purchasing automotive parts from Repco and Covs, with most 
customers purchasing at least 75% of parts from either, or both, stores. This 
trend appears consistent across all local markets, even in areas where there are 
alternative generalist suppliers, such as in Mandurah and Bunbury. As a result, 
the ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition would result in significant 
concentration in all local markets, giving rise to a likely substantial lessening of 
competition.  
68. 
Most trade customers identified price as a key factor in their purchasing 
decisions between local suppliers. In addition, some trade customers have 
indicated that Covs provides products at a cheaper price point than Repco and 
that the proposed acquisition may result in the loss of a lower cost supplier, as 
well as removing GPC’s closest competitor. 
Availability of substitutes 
69. 
Market feedback suggested that there would be only limited alternative suppliers 
to the merger parties following the proposed acquisition.  
Burson 
70. 
As discussed above, the ACCC considers suppliers located in Perth to offer a 
limited competitive constraint to the merged entity. However, the ACCC 
understands that Burson has recently opened three stores in greater 


 
Page 16 of 20 
 
metropolitan Perth, and may seek to increase its footprint across regional 
Australia as part of its national expansion.
2 The potential for Burson to enter the 
local markets (in which there may be competition concerns) is considered further 
below.  
Veale (Bunbury, Busselton and Mandurah) 
71. 
A number of trade customers in Bunbury and Busselton have indicated that 
Veale (located in Bunbury) is a viable alternative to Covs and Repco. Similarly, 
some trade customers in Mandurah have identified the Veale branch in 
Mandurah as a competitive constraint to the Repco and Covs branches.  
72. 
In this respect, the ACCC notes that while the proposed acquisition would not 
result in a single supplier in those regions, it would still lead to a significant 
concentration of suppliers in those markets and the increased incentive and 
ability for the merged entity to raise prices and/or decrease service levels.   
Capricorn 
73. 
Capricorn offers trade customers the convenience of a single account invoicing 
system through which they can purchase automotive parts from a range of 
resellers and directly from manufacturers. The ACCC therefore understands that 
Capricorn is a conduit or channel through which customers can purchase 
automotive parts from a range of manufacturers, distributors and resellers.  
74. 
Market feedback suggested that trade customers primarily utilise Capricorn to 
purchase parts from resellers, such as Repco and Covs, or on an ad hoc basis, 
where required parts are not available locally. Some market participants in the 
relevant local markets did not use Capricorn or had previously used Capricorn 
but had ceased to do so as there was no perceived difference in price to 
ordering direct from the supplier. In addition, as with suppliers located in Perth, 
there are issues related to timeliness of delivery and convenience of supply.  
75. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that it may not be a real substitute for the 
merger parties. However, the ACCC understands that customers’ use of 
Capricorn has been growing in the last few years. The ACCC welcomes any 
further information regarding the extent to which Capricorn users utilise 
Capricorn as a conduit for purchases from Repco, AI and Covs, and/or as a 
means of purchasing products from alternative suppliers (locally and from Perth). 
Perth and online resellers 
76. 
As discussed above, trade customers have not indicated that online suppliers of 
automotive parts or suppliers located in Perth are viable alternatives to local 
suppliers, due to the need for timely and frequent deliveries. In addition, online 
suppliers appear to be unable to supply high volumes of parts as efficiently as 
local suppliers.  
OE dealers 
77. 
As discussed above, market feedback indicated that a substantial number of 
trade customers do not consider that OE dealers are viable alternative suppliers 
                                                 
 
2
 http://www.burson.com.au/burson-auto-parts-national-expansion/  


 
Page 17 of 20 
 
to Covs or Repco. The ACCC invites further information on the extent to which 
the trade clubs of OE dealers are competing aggressively on price, such that the 
purchase of OE parts from OE dealers is becoming more attractive to trade 
customers. The ACCC also welcomes further information on the scope of the 
constraint provided by OE dealers to generalist suppliers given the supply of OE 
parts by a given OE dealer will be limited to specific manufacturers and vehicle 
models.   
Barriers to entry 
78. 
The ACCC understands that barriers to entry and expansion in the supply of 
automotive parts to trade customers in each of the local markets vary according 
to the location of each of the markets relative to Perth. The further away an area 
is from Perth, the more difficult it would be to enter into that market. 
Nonetheless, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that barriers to entry and expansion 
exist in each of the local markets and is further heightened by the proposed 
acquisition.  
79. 
While opening a standalone store in any of the local markets may not incur 
significant capital or sunk costs, market feedback indicated that the cost of 
establishing a logistics network of distribution centres and vehicles across 
metropolitan and regional Western Australia is significant. This logistics network 
is a necessary component for the supply of automotive parts to trade customers, 
due to the need for timely and frequent deliveries. The ACCC understands that 
the cost of establishing an automotive parts retail/trade chain, with branches 
across a number of local areas in Western Australia, would be even greater, due 
to the need for sufficient economies of scale in relation to the distribution and 
warehousing of automotive parts.  
80. 
The ACCC notes Burson’s recent entry into Western Australia and Veale’s 
presence in metropolitan and regional Western Australia (albeit in regional areas 
located relatively close to Perth, compared to other areas). However, the ACCC 
notes that all of Burson’s stores and most of Veale’s stores are located in the 
greater metropolitan Perth region. The remoteness of many regional towns in 
Western Australia, and the relatively smaller population in those towns (and 
consequently, lower demand), may mean that barriers to entry and expansion 
are higher in these areas. The addition of one more outlet in these locations 
would significantly increase total supply and reduce the expected returns from 
entry. The ACCC has received market feedback to suggest that the relatively 
smaller population in the more isolated regional towns (such as Karratha and 
Port Hedland) reduces the incentive for existing suppliers to expand or new 
suppliers to enter those markets. 
81. 
In addition, concerns have been raised with the ACCC that the merged entity 
would be the largest trade supplier in Western Australia and would have an 
increased ability and incentive to deter new entry and expansion through 
exclusive customer arrangements and targeted pricing strategies. Accordingly, 
the ACCC considers that the risk of retaliatory action by the incumbent against 
new entry also represents a barrier to entry or expansion in each of the local 
markets.  
Likelihood of expansion 
82. 
As mentioned above, market feedback identified Veale as an alternative supplier 
in Bunbury, Busselton and Mandurah. Accordingly, should the merged entity 


 
Page 18 of 20 
 
increase prices, Veale may be able to expand its supply of automotive parts 
through increased deliveries or new stores, to meet increased demand from 
customers unwilling to pay higher prices, given its existing network of facilities 
across these metropolitan Perth and these areas of Western Australia. In this 
respect, the ACCC understands that switching costs are presently low. However, 
the ACCC also recognises that the incumbent has an incentive to attempt to 
deter expansion by Veale or others by locking customers into exclusive long-
term contracts or engaging in price wars. This may make expansion more 
difficult. 
83. 
The ACCC has also considered whether existing retail-focused suppliers could 
expand their product offering to supply to trade customers, noting that retail-
focused suppliers would have similar economies of scale to trade-focused 
suppliers. Some retail-focused suppliers appear to have products that cater to 
trade customers (albeit on a limited basis) or limited trade supply programs. 
Following market inquiries, the ACCC considers it unlikely that retail-focused 
suppliers would expand into supplying trade customers in the local markets 
beyond their current offerings in the foreseeable future. 
Likelihood of new entry 
84. 
The ACCC has received information that suggests there may be new entry in 
Albany, Geraldton and the Mandurah area. The ACCC notes that the extent of 
competitive constraint by any new entrant would likely depend on: 
 
how closely the new store would compete with existing local suppliers in 
Albany, Geraldton and Mandurah; 
 
the willingness of customers to substitute to the new store; 
 
the frequency of deliveries to customers in each of those towns; and  
 
any retaliatory conduct by the incumbent suppliers.  
85. 
At present, it does not appear that such entry would be timely (that is, within the 
foreseeable future) or sufficient to constrain the merged entity. Accordingly, 
based on information at hand, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the likelihood 
of new entry or expansion would not be sufficient to constrain the merged entity 
and may in fact be reduced by the proposed acquisition.  
ACCC’s preliminary views 
86. 
In summary, the ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition would: 
 
increase market concentration; 
 
remove a key competitive constraint; 
 
raise barriers to entry and expansion; 
 
and that timely entry or expansion is unlikely 
resulting in an increased ability and incentive on the part of the merged entity to 
raise prices or decrease service levels in the supply of automotive parts to trade 
customers in each of the local markets identified above.  


 
Page 19 of 20 
 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to 
GPC’s increased ability to raise prices and/or decrease service levels. In particular 
market participants may wish to comment on the following: 
 
the extent to which Veale (in Bunbury, Busselton and Mandurah), specialist 
resellers, OE dealers and direct suppliers (through Capricorn) would competitively 
constrain the merged entity; 
 
barriers to entry or expansion in each of the local areas; in particular: 
o 
whether barriers to entry are different for each area; and  
o 
whether a new supplier needs to establish a network of stores,  
                        distribution and warehousing facilities in order to compete with the  
                        merged entity and if so, the capital required to do so;  
o 
the extent to which the proposed acquisition would raise barriers to  
                        entry and expansion; 
 
 
the likelihood of timely new entry or expansion; in particular: 
o 
the likelihood of new entry by existing suppliers (such as Veale or  
                       Burson) in each of the local markets;  
o 
whether new entry in Albany, Geraldton and the Mandurah area would  
                       be sufficient to constrain the pricing activities of the merged entity in  
                       each of Albany, Geraldton and Mandurah; 
 
 
if the merged entity increases prices: 
o 
the likelihood of existing trade-focused suppliers (such as Veale in  
                        Bunbury and Mandurah) expanding their supply (for instance, by  
                        lowering prices or increasing frequency of delivery); 
o 
the likelihood of retail-focused suppliers changing or expanding the  
                        focus of their supply of automotive parts from retail customers to trade  
                        customers; 
 
 
the extent to which the merger parties have engaged in exclusive customer 
arrangements (for instance, 12 month fixed contracts with customers) in the past 
and the likelihood of the merged entity engaging in such conduct. 
Issue unlikely to raise concerns: supply of automotive 
parts in the greater metropolitan Perth region 
87. 
The ACCC considers that the proposed acquisition would be unlikely to 
substantially lessen competition in the supply of automotive parts in the greater 
metropolitan Perth region due to the presence of sufficient existing competitive 
constraints. 
Issue unlikely to raise concerns: supply of automotive 
parts to mining and industrial customers 
88. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to 
substantially lessen competition in the supply of automotive parts to mining and 
industrial customers due to the merger parties’ minimal share of this market. 
However, the ACCC welcomes any information in this respect.  


 
Page 20 of 20 
 
ACCC's future steps 
89. 
The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
90. 
As noted above, the ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on 
each of the issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue 
that may be relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. Submissions are 
to be received by the ACCC no later than 5 November 2015 and should be 
emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au. 
91. 
The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 26 November 2015. 
However the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Merger Review 
Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose of 
explaining the ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's public 
announcement. 
