 
Page 1 of 12 
 
Public Competition Assessment 
23 March 2016 
GPC Asia Pacific Pty Ltd - proposed acquisition of Covs 
Parts from Automotive Holdings Group Limited 
The ACCC’s decisions 
1. 
On 17 December 2015, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission 
(ACCC) decided to oppose the proposed acquisition by GPC Asia Pacific Pty Ltd 
(GPC) of Covs Parts (Covs) from Automotive Holdings Group Limited (AHG) 
(original proposed acquisition). Subsequently, GPC and AHG submitted to the 
ACCC for consideration a revised version of the original proposed acquisition 
(revised proposed acquisition) which excluded certain Covs stores. 
2. 
On 18 February 2016, the ACCC decided not to oppose the revised proposed 
acquisition, subject to an enforceable undertaking. 
3. 
The ACCC decided that the revised proposed acquisition, in conjunction with the 
undertaking, would be unlikely to contravene section 50 of the Competition and 
Consumer Act 2010 (the Act). 
4. 
Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to have 
the effect, of substantially lessening competition in any market. 
5. 
Both Covs and GPC supply automotive parts, tools and accessories 
(automotive parts) to trade customers, as well as to mining and industrial 
customers, in Western Australia.  The ACCC considered the competitive effects 
of the original and revised proposed acquisitions in local markets for the supply 
of automotive parts to trade customers. 
6. 
When it announced its opposition to the original proposed acquisition in 
December 2015, the ACCC was concerned about a lessening of competition in 
certain local markets, as GPC and Covs were each other’s closest competitors 
and there were no other significant competitors in those local markets. 
7. 
The revised proposed acquisition excludes the Covs stores in Albany, 
Esperance, Karratha and Port Hedland (retained stores). The ACCC 
considered that the revised proposed transaction would mean that those regional 
towns would continue to have two competing generalist automotive parts 
suppliers after the transaction. The enforceable undertaking given by AHG 
requires it to maintain and operate the retained stores in substantially the same 
manner as they are now operated for a period of at least two years. This 
includes retaining current staff and ensuring similar levels of stock are 
maintained. 


 
Page 2 of 12 
8. 
This Public Competition Assessment outlines reasons for the decisions by the 
ACCC to oppose the original proposed acquisition and not to oppose the revised 
proposed acquisition. 
9. 
Please note that this and other public competition assessments are subject to 
the following qualifications: 
 the ACCC considers each transaction on a case-by-case basis and so the 
analysis and decision outlined in one assessment will not necessarily reflect 
the ACCC’s view of another transaction, even where that other transaction 
may involve the same or a related market, and 
 as assessments are brief and also do not refer to confidential information 
provided by the parties or other market participants, assessments do not set 
out all of the issues and information considered by the ACCC, nor all of the 
analysis and reasons of the ACCC. 
The parties and the transaction 
The acquirer: GPC 
10. 
GPC (owned by the US based Genuine Parts Company) is a distributor and 
retailer of automotive parts in Australia and New Zealand. GPC owns Repco, a 
generalist automotive parts supplier to trade (i.e. vehicle repair workshops) and 
retail (i.e. DIY customers maintaining/repairing their own vehicles) customers; 
and Ashdown-Ingram, a specialist supplier of automotive electrical parts to trade, 
mining and industrial customers, and other resellers. 
11. 
In Western Australia, GPC operates 37 Repco stores and 8 Ashdown-Ingram 
branches. 
12. 
Repco does not supply original equipment (OE) parts, which are ‘branded’ 
automotive parts manufactured by the car manufacturer or a third party using the 
car manufacturer’s designs. Instead, it focuses on the supply of non-OE or 
‘aftermarket’ parts, which are parts manufactured to match the relevant 
functional and technical specifications of OE parts but are sold under a different 
brand name. 
The target: Covs 
13. 
AHG acquired Covs from the Coventry Group in 2011. Covs is a generalist 
reseller of automotive parts and has a 25 branch network in Western Australia 
which supplies a broad range of automotive parts. Covs is made up of three 
business streams: 
 supply of automotive hard parts, consumables, tools and workshop 
equipment primarily to trade customers  
 supply of automotive and other parts (such as safety products, chemicals 
and cleaning products) to mining and industrial customers, and 
 supply of drivetrain (truck driveline assemblies and components such as 
gearbox, clutch, drive shafts and hubs). 
14. 
Covs supplies both OE and aftermarket automotive parts, and is currently the 
exclusive distributor of Ford and Holden OE parts to OE dealers and trade 
customers in Western Australia. Post-acquisition, AHG will retain the exclusive 
distribution of Ford and Holden OE parts in Western Australia and will operate 


 
Page 3 of 12 
this business within AMCAP, a division of AHG. The AMCAP division provides 
the warehousing and distribution of automotive parts and accessories to the 
automotive, commercial and industrial sectors.  
The transaction 
15. 
The original proposed acquisition involved GPC acquiring the entire Covs 
business from AHG, constituting all 25 Covs stores in Western Australia and 
associated assets. Following the ACCC’s decision to oppose the original 
proposed acquisition, GPC and AHG revised their agreement to exclude the 
stores in Albany, Esperance, Karratha and Port Hedland. 
16. 
Under the revised proposed acquisition, GPC will acquire the 21 Covs stores 
listed below: 
Greater Metropolitan Perth 
Regional WA 
Belmont 
Bunbury 
Bibra Lake 
Busselton 
Canning Vale 
Geraldton 
Joondalup 
Kalgoorlie 
Kelmscott 
Mandurah 
Malaga 
Merredin 
Midland 
Narrogin 
Morley 
Northam 
Myaree 
Osborne Park 
Rockingham 
Wangara (Wanneroo) 
Welshpool 
Review timeline 
17. 
The following table outlines the ACCC’s timeline of key events during this review.  
Date 
Event 
26 August 2015 
ACCC commenced review under the Merger Process 
Guidelines. 
7 September 2015 
Closing date for submissions from interested parties. 
21 September 2015 
Former proposed decision date of 8 October delayed to 
allow receipt of further information from GPC. 
28 September 2015 
ACCC received further information from GPC. ACCC 
timeline recommenced. 
21 October 2015 
ACCC published a Statement of Issues outlining 
preliminary competition concerns. 
5 November 2015 
Closing date for submissions relating to Statement of 
Issues. 
17 November 2015 
Former proposed decision date of 26 November delayed 
to allow receipt of further information from AHG. 


 
Page 4 of 12 
18 November 2015 
ACCC received further information from AHG. ACCC 
timeline recommenced. 
24 November 2015 
Former proposed decision date of 3 December delayed to 
allow the ACCC further time to consider information 
provided by the parties. 
9 December 2015 
Former proposed decision date of 10 December delayed 
to allow the ACCC further time to consider further 
information provided by the parties. 
17 December 2015 
ACCC announced it would oppose the original proposed 
acquisition. 
15 January 2016 
AHG provided details of the revised proposed acquisition 
to the ACCC. The ACCC commenced targeted market 
inquiries. 
8 February 2016 
AHG provided a draft section 87B undertaking to the 
ACCC regarding the continued operation of the retained 
stores. 
18 February 2016 
ACCC announced it would not oppose the revised 
proposed acquisition, subject to an enforceable 
undertaking. 
18. 
The total elapsed time from start to finish of the ACCC’s review of the original 
proposed acquisition was just under 4 months. The net period, that is excluding 
time taken by the parties to submit further information and documents, was 74 
business days. 
19. 
The revised proposed acquisition (including a draft section 87B undertaking) was 
considered in just over a month, from the receipt of details regarding the 
proposal. 
Market inquiries 
20. 
The ACCC conducted market inquiries with a range of industry participants, 
including competitors, potential competitors, customers and other interested 
parties in relation to the original proposed transaction. Targeted market inquiries 
were undertaken in relation to the revised proposed acquisition.  
Industry background 
21. 
In Australia, the majority of automotive parts are sourced from offshore 
manufacturers or local third party importers, which includes OE manufacturers 
and aftermarket manufacturers. OE and aftermarket parts are distributed by 
various suppliers, including: 
 generalist automotive parts suppliers who supply to trade customers or retail 
customers, or both 
 specialist suppliers (such as Ashdown-Ingram) 
 OE parts suppliers and OE dealers, and 


 
Page 5 of 12 
 via direct supply to end users by the manufacturer/importer (including 
through Capricorn1).  
22. 
Different types of customers have varying demand characteristics, which 
influence the distribution models and service offerings of suppliers.  
Other industry participants 
Burson Auto Parts 
23. 
Burson Auto Parts (Burson) is a trade-focused generalist supplier of automotive 
parts with over 100 stores across Australia. Burson operates 6 stores in greater 
metropolitan Perth, located in Malaga, Belmont, Osborne Park, Rockingham, 
Myaree and Bibra Lake. It also owns the retail-focused Autobarn franchisor 
business and Auto Pro stores across Western Australia (see below). 
Veale Auto Parts 
24. 
Veale Auto Parts (Veale) is a trade-focused generalist supplier of automotive 
parts in Western Australia. Veale has 17 stores in Western Australia, with 15 
stores in the greater metropolitan Perth region and two stores in regional areas 
(Bunbury and Mandurah). 
Retail-focused suppliers 
25. 
Suppliers in Western Australia with a focus on retail customers include: 
 Super Cheap Auto (SCA), with 28 stores across Western Australia 
 Autobarn, which operates a franchised business, stocking a range of 
automotive parts primarily aimed at retail customers; there are 7 stores 
operating under this brand in Western Australia 
 Auto Pro, which supplies to both trade and retail customers; there are 18 
Auto Pro stores operating in Western Australia, including 3 ‘superstores’, and 
 Auto One, an independent, member-owned automotive parts group operating 
from 5 stores in Western Australia, located in Kalgoorlie, Geraldton, Midland, 
Kalamunda and Wanneroo. These stores have different business models 
from one another, depending on the relevant member/owner. For example, 
Auto One/Mach One (based in Geraldton) supplies both retail and trade 
customers.  
Market definition 
26. 
The relevant markets were considered to be the supply of automotive parts to: 
 trade customers in each of the towns of Albany, Bunbury/Busselton, 
Esperance, Geraldton, Kalgoorlie, Karratha, Mandurah and Port Hedland  
 trade customers in the greater metropolitan Perth region, and 
                                                 
1  
Capricorn  offers its trade members an ordering platform that allows customers to order automotive 
parts from multiple suppliers and receive a single bill. It has over 15,800 members and 2,000 
preferred suppliers in Australia. Repco, Covs Parts, Burson and Veale are all Capricorn preferred 
suppliers.   


 
Page 6 of 12 
 mining and industrial customers in each of Albany, Bunbury/Busselton, 
Esperance, Geraldton, Kalgoorlie, Karratha, Mandurah and Port Hedland. 
27. 
In the Statement of Issues (SoI),2 the ACCC expressed the preliminary view that 
there is very minimal overlap between GPC and Covs in the supply of 
automotive parts to mining and industrial customers in each of Albany, 
Bunbury/Busselton, Esperance, Geraldton, Kalgoorlie, Karratha, Mandurah and 
Port Hedland. As this view did not change since the SoI, the ACCC did not 
consider that this aspect of the proposed acquisition would raise concerns and 
therefore, the supply of automotive parts to mining and industrial customers is 
not considered further in this Public Competition Assessment. 
Automotive parts to trade customers  
Product dimension 
28. 
The ACCC considered that: 
 there are likely to be separate markets for the supply of automotive parts to 
each of trade and retail customers, and 
 the market for the supply of automotive parts to trade customers includes 
both aftermarket and OE parts, though the constraint imposed on the supply 
of aftermarket parts by suppliers of OE parts may be limited. 
Separate markets for trade and retail customers 
29. 
The focus of the ACCC’s competition analysis was on the supply of automotive 
parts to trade customers. The ACCC considered that there are separate markets 
for the supply of automotive parts to trade customers and retail customers. 
Market feedback indicated that trade customers have different demand 
characteristics to retail customers, due to their business needs.  
30. 
The ACCC also considered supply-side substitutability between suppliers of 
automotive parts to trade customers and those to retail customers to be low. 
While there is some overlap, market feedback indicated that switching from one 
customer segment to another, or adopting a dual customer approach, can be 
difficult and costly. The ACCC therefore concluded that there are separate 
markets for the supply of automotive parts to trade customers and to retail 
customers. 
Aftermarket and OE parts 
31. 
The ACCC considered that OE parts and aftermarket parts are functionally 
substitutable and that, for certain makes and models of vehicles, OE parts can 
be price competitive with aftermarket parts, particularly where they are supplied 
by car manufacturers’ trade clubs. However, market feedback indicated that OE 
dealers (who, other than Covs, are the only suppliers of OE parts) typically keep 
a smaller range of stock on hand than generalist suppliers, such as Covs and 
Repco. This is particularly an issue in local markets in more isolated regional 
areas. 
32. 
In light of the above, the ACCC considered it appropriate to include OE parts in 
the same product market as aftermarket parts. However, the ACCC noted that 
                                                 
2  
Published on 21 October 2015. 


 
Page 7 of 12 
the level of competitive constraint imposed by the supply of OE parts on the 
supply of aftermarket parts varies according to the relevant make and model of 
car, and the availability and price of OE parts.  
Geographic dimension 
33. 
The ACCC considered the competitive effects of the proposed acquisition in 
local markets in which GPC and AHG both operate stores supplying automotive 
parts to trade customers. These markets were: 
 the local markets of each of Albany, Esperance, Geraldton, Kalgoorlie, 
Karratha and Port Hedland 
 the local market for the combined towns of Bunbury and Busselton 
 the local market of Mandurah, recognising that Perth suppliers exercise a 
greater competitive constraint on the merger parties in Mandurah compared 
to other local markets (discussed further below), and 
 greater metropolitan Perth. 
34. 
Same-day delivery of automotive parts is an important facet to a trade 
customer’s choice of supplier, such that a supplier’s ability to offer this service 
influences the boundaries of the geographic markets. 
35. 
Market feedback indicated that in regional areas, suppliers in Perth were not 
considered to be close competitors to local suppliers, as delivery from suppliers 
in Perth is generally costly and takes longer than acquiring the part locally. For 
some more expensive or infrequently ordered parts, delivery from Perth is a 
viable alternative. Nonetheless, the ACCC considered that suppliers in Perth 
offer only a limited constraint on local suppliers in most of the regional towns. 
Mandurah 
36. 
Mandurah is located approximately 65 km from Perth. Market feedback indicated 
that trade customers in Mandurah can and do order automotive parts from Perth-
based suppliers. Further, Perth-based suppliers are able to offer same day 
delivery to customers in Mandurah due to its geographic proximity to Perth.  
37. 
However, the ACCC did not consider Mandurah to be in the same geographic 
market as greater metropolitan Perth. Most customers in Mandurah purchase 
parts locally, only purchasing from suppliers in Perth when the required part is 
not available locally. The ACCC concluded that Mandurah is a separate local 
market, although this was not determinative to the competition analysis. 
Bunbury/Busselton 
 
38. 
Bunbury and Busselton are located approximately 50km apart. Market feedback 
indicated that customers in Busselton perceive suppliers in Bunbury to be 
substitutable for local suppliers, as these suppliers provide a product and service 
offering similar to local suppliers. In addition, the relatively close proximity of 
Bunbury and Busselton makes it possible that suppliers in Bunbury could expand 
their supply to include delivery to customers in Busselton. In this instance, 
therefore, the ACCC considered it appropriate to assess the proposed 
acquisition in the context of a combined Bunbury/Busselton market. 


 
Page 8 of 12 
Competition analysis  
39. 
The ACCC considered whether GPC’s original proposed acquisition of Covs 
would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of substantially lessening 
competition in the market for the supply of automotive parts to trade customers 
in each of the local markets. The ACCC analysed the level of competitive 
constraint provided by other suppliers post-acquisition and the likelihood of 
timely entry or expansion by other players. The ACCC examined the potential for 
a loss of competitive tension to result in higher prices and/or adversely affect the 
quality of service.  
With/without test 
40. 
Section 50 of the Act prohibits mergers or acquisitions that would have the 
effect, or be likely to have the effect, of substantially lessening competition in a 
market. In assessing a proposed acquisition pursuant to section 50 of the Act, 
the ACCC considers the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future 
competitive environment post-acquisition if the acquisition proceeds (the “with” 
position) to the likely future competitive environment if the acquisition does not 
proceed (the “without” position) to determine whether the proposed acquisition is 
likely to substantially lessen competition in any relevant market. 
41. 
The ACCC considered that the likely future without the proposed merger would 
be the status quo, where AHG would retain the Covs business and continue to 
compete with GPC in all relevant locations.  
Removal of GPC’s closest competitor 
42. 
The ACCC considered that GPC and Covs are the two major suppliers of 
automotive parts to trade customers in each of the relevant local markets. 
Market feedback indicated that trade customers perceive the parties to be close 
substitutes for each other in terms of their supply of automotive parts. The ACCC 
understands that this is due to very few (or in some instances, no) other 
suppliers offering a similar range of products within the relevant geographic 
markets at the pricing and service levels required by trade customers.  
43. 
As a result, the ACCC concluded that GPC and Covs were generally each 
other’s closest competitors in each of the local markets. However, the extent to 
which the proposed acquisition would lessen competition would vary in each 
local market, depending on the competitive constraint exercised by the 
remaining existing (and potential new) suppliers in that market (discussed further 
below). 
New entry and expansion in local markets 
44. 
The ACCC’s view is that barriers to entry and expansion in some of the local 
markets are not high, given evidence of new entry and expansion in those local 
markets, as outlined below. The ACCC considered that larger markets, such as 
greater metropolitan Perth, Bunbury/Busselton and Mandurah, may be capable 
of supporting the entry of new suppliers or expansion of existing suppliers. 
However, new entry and expansion would be significantly more difficult in 
smaller, more remote markets, given the cost and logistics challenges required 
to set up these stores. This is compounded by the relatively smaller population in 
the more isolated regional towns (such as Karratha and Port Hedland), which is 


 
Page 9 of 12 
likely to reduce the incentive for existing suppliers to expand or new suppliers to 
enter those markets. 
45. 
Notwithstanding the challenges involved in entering more remote local markets, 
the ACCC noted the recent new entry of Autoline, a supplier of automotive parts 
to trade customers and mining and industrial customers, in Kalgoorlie. The 
ACCC considered that there is the potential for new entry or expansion in 
markets similar to Kalgoorlie, where a supplier may be able to support or 
complement its supply of automotive parts to trade customers by supplying to 
another customer segment. Similarly, the ACCC noted the continued expansion 
of Burson in metropolitan Perth, which is likely to offer an alternative for trade 
customers in Mandurah (due to the relatively close proximity of Mandurah to 
metropolitan Perth).  
Level of constraint provided by other suppliers 
46. 
Suppliers of automotive parts to trade customers include generalist suppliers, 
specialist suppliers, OE dealers and some retail focused suppliers (who may 
also supply trade customers to a very limited extent). In this respect, the ACCC 
noted: 
 Burson and Veale are generalist suppliers to trade customers who are 
present in some of the local markets.  
 OE dealers in general would exercise only a limited competitive constraint on 
GPC and Covs. 
 The extent to which specialist suppliers compete with the parties depends on 
the availability and range of specialist suppliers within the local market. The 
ACCC considered there is limited supply-side substitutability between 
specialist and generalist suppliers. In addition, trade customers generally 
purchase a small proportion of automotive parts from specialist resellers or 
on an ad hoc basis, although this may vary, depending on the focus of a 
trade customer’s workshop. 
 In terms of retail-focused suppliers, although the ACCC considered that there 
are separate markets for the supply of automotive parts to each of trade and 
retail customers, the ACCC considered that in some circumstances, retail-
focused suppliers apply a limited competitive constraint on trade-focused 
suppliers. This is because some trade customers purchase automotive parts 
from retail-focused suppliers. However, predominantly retail-focused 
suppliers (such as Super Cheap Auto and Auto One) are not generally 
considered to be substitutes for trade-focused suppliers, due to their 
significantly different product and service offering. Also, as mentioned above, 
trade customers tend to purchase parts from retail-focused suppliers only to 
a very limited extent. 
47. 
The competitive constraint exercised by each type of supplier was considered in 
the context of each local market, as set out below. 
Greater Metropolitan Perth 
48. 
In the SoI, the ACCC expressed the preliminary view that the original proposed 
acquisition would be unlikely to substantially lessen competition in the supply of 
automotive parts to trade customers in greater metropolitan Perth due to the 
presence of sufficiently strong competitive constraints. In greater metropolitan 
Perth, a range of other options are available for customers, including Burson and 


 
Page 10 of 12 
Veale. The ACCC’s analysis of this market did not change following the issue of 
the SoI, so it is not discussed further in this Public Competition Assessment.  
Bunbury/Busselton and Mandurah 
49. 
The ACCC considered that existing suppliers of automotive parts in these two 
markets would sufficiently constrain the combined GPC-Covs. In particular, 
market feedback indicated that Veale (with branches in Bunbury and Mandurah) 
is perceived to be a viable alternative to GPC and Covs.3  
50. 
The ACCC therefore concluded that although the proposed acquisition would 
remove one of GPC’s closest competitors in these two markets, it is unlikely that 
there would be a significant reduction in competitive tension given the 
competitive constraint exercised by other suppliers of automotive parts in these 
markets.  
Geraldton 
51. 
Market feedback indicated that Mach 1 (also known as Auto One)4 is a viable 
alternative to GPC and Covs, with some customers purchasing a sizeable 
proportion of their automotive parts from Mach 1. The ACCC noted that some 
trade customers perceive Mach 1 as having a strong trade offering with product 
and service features valued by trade customers.  
52. 
The ACCC considered that trade customers may be able to switch to Mach 1 in 
the event of an increase in price or decrease in service levels by the combined 
GPC-Covs post acquisition. Although there would be a lessening of competition 
as a result of the original proposed acquisition, the ACCC did not consider that 
lessening to be substantial.  
Kalgoorlie 
53. 
Further market inquiries since the SoI highlighted the entry by Autoline, a 
generalist supplier of automotive parts to trade customers and mining and 
industrial customers, into Kalgoorlie in October 2015. Market inquiries suggested 
that Autoline has a similar product and service offering to that offered by GPC 
and Covs.  
54. 
The ACCC therefore considered that trade customers in Kalgoorlie would be 
able to switch to Autoline. Therefore, similar to the situation in Geraldton, the 
ACCC considered that there would be a lessening of competition in Kalgoorlie, 
but that it would not be substantial.  
Albany, Esperance, Karratha and Port Hedland 
55. 
In each of these local markets, GPC and Covs are the only generalist automotive 
parts suppliers with a strong trade offering. Compared to other local markets, 
there are also significantly fewer alternative automotive parts suppliers 
(generalist, specialist and OE dealers) that could potentially constrain the 
                                                 
3  
The ACCC also understands that Burson opened a store in Rockingham (approximately 33km from 
Mandurah) in late 2015. At this stage, the degree of competition between this store in Rockingham 
and suppliers in Mandurah, and the extent to which this store should be considered in the same 
market, is not clear.  
4  
Mach 1 is an independently-run Auto One franchisee that adopts a dual-pronged approach, supplying 
parts to retail and trade customers and offering the service features valued by trade customers. 


 
Page 11 of 12 
combined GPC-Covs business. Market feedback also confirmed that retail-
focused suppliers in these regions were not substitutable for GPC and Covs, 
with most trade customers indicating that they would not be able to switch to 
local retail-focused suppliers in the event of a price increase, due to the 
difference in product range and service levels.  
56. 
In addition, as stated above, suppliers located in Perth only exercise a very 
limited competitive constraint on GPC and Covs in these markets due to the 
distance of these markets from Perth. 
57. 
The ACCC was also not aware of any new or existing suppliers seeking to 
expand into the supply of automotive parts to trade customers in these local 
markets who could be considered to competitively constrain the combined GPC-
Covs in the future. 
58. 
Accordingly, the ACCC considered the original proposed acquisition would result 
in a highly concentrated market in each of these towns, with only limited 
competitive constraint on pricing and service levels. 
Conclusion: competition analysis – original proposed acquisition 
59. 
As noted above, under the original proposed acquisition, GPC proposed to 
acquire the entire Covs business, including all of the 25 Covs stores in Western 
Australia. 
60. 
The ACCC concluded that the original proposed acquisition would have the 
effect, or be likely to have the effect, of substantially lessening competition in the 
supply of automotive parts to trade customers in a number of local markets in 
Western Australia. In particular, the ACCC considered that: 
 the original proposed acquisition would result in GPC acquiring its closest 
competitor in the supply of automotive parts to trade customers 
 the remaining competitors were not likely to provide a sufficient competitive 
constraint on the combined GPC-Covs in several local markets, and 
 it is unlikely that there would be timely new entry or expansion in relevant 
areas sufficient to constrain the combined GPC-Covs post-acquisition. 
61. 
Accordingly, the ACCC opposed the original proposed acquisition on 17 
December 2015. 
Revised proposed acquisition and section 87B 
undertaking 
62. 
Following the ACCC’s decision to oppose the original proposed acquisition, AHG 
and GPC sought to address the ACCC’s competition concerns by modifying the 
transaction to exclude the stores in Albany, Esperance, Karratha and Port 
Hedland. AHG advised that it would retain these stores and operate them 
through its AMCAP division. AHG also agreed to provide the ACCC with a 
section 87B undertaking in relation to its continued operation of those stores (the 
undertaking).  
63. 
The ACCC was concerned that if GPC chose to close the Covs stores excluded 
from the revised proposed acquisition, the effect of the revised proposed 


 
Page 12 of 12 
acquisition would be similar to the effect of the original proposed acquisition. The 
undertaking sought to address that concern. 
64. 
AHG provided the ACCC with details of the revised proposed acquisition on 15 
January 2016 and a draft undertaking on 8 February 2016. The ACCC accepted 
the undertaking on 17 February 2016. The undertaking obliges AHG to operate 
each of the retained stores as a going concern, in the ordinary course of 
business, and in substantially the same manner as they were operated at 17 
February 2016, for a period of at least two years, including by: 
 maintaining similar stock levels of automotive parts  
 maintaining substantially the same levels of staff  
 offering trade customers substantially the same services and level of service, 
including in terms of delivery and availability of automotive parts, and 
 continuing to make Ford and Holden original equipment automotive parts 
available at trade club prices. 
65. 
The undertaking is available on the ACCC public register. 
66. 
The ACCC concluded that GPC’s revised proposed acquisition of Covs would be 
unlikely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in any market, 
taking into account the enforceable undertaking accepted by the ACCC.  
