 
Level 11, 1 King William Street
Adelaide, SA 5000
GPO Box 3131
Canberra, ACT 2601
Tel (08) 8456 3508 
www.accc.gov.au
Our ref: IM-72046 
Contact officer: Tim Byrne 
Contact phone: (03) 9658 6440 
26 May 2023 
 
 
Dear Interested Party, 
Request for submissions: Greencross Pty Limited’s proposed acquisition of Habitat 
Pet Supplies  
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is currently reviewing the 
proposed acquisition by Greencross Pty Limited (Greencross) of One Stop Pets Pty Ltd and 
D&R Pantalleresco Pty Ltd (together, Habitat) (the proposed acquisition). Further 
information on the merger parties is in Attachment A.  
Information from firms like yours is one of the ACCC’s most valuable tools in 
assessing mergers. Your expertise in pet products and services will help the ACCC 
understand the impact of the proposed acquisition, including how your business may 
be affected. 
Request for submissions 
The ACCC welcomes your comments in relation to the competitive effects of the 
transaction. In particular, we are seeking your views on:  
• 
how closely Greencross (via Petbarn) and Habitat compete with each other and for 
what products/services; 
• 
the availability and competitiveness of other suppliers of pet products and services 
in Chirnside Park, Burwood and Port Melbourne; 
• 
the extent to which businesses other than specialty pet retailers compete with 
Greencross and Habitat.  
How to share your views 
A list of specific questions is at Attachment B. The more information we have, the better 
we can assess the impact of the proposed acquisition, but if you are unsure of any 
questions, you can leave them blank.  


You can contact us in two ways:  
• 
If you would like to comment in writing, please do so by 4:00 pm on 15 June 2023 
via email with the title: Submission re: Greencross / Habitat – attention Violetta 
Twycross-Pajevic/Tim Byrne. If you require more time to respond, please let us 
know.  
• 
If you would like to arrange a time to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have 
any questions about this letter, please contact Violetta Twycross-Pajevic on 
(08) 8456 3581 or Tim Byrne on (03) 9658 6440. 
This matter is public, and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public Mergers 
Register at (ACCC mergers register).  
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC treats sensitive information it receives during a merger review as confidential 
and will not publish your submission. We will not disclose submissions to third parties 
(except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of 
information legislation or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the 
Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, we will notify you in advance where possible so that you have an opportunity 
to be heard. Therefore, please clearly indicate if any information you provide is confidential. 
Our Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on 
confidentiality. 
 
Yours sincerely 
  
 
Daniel McCracken-Hewson 
General Manager  
Merger Investigations  


 
Attachment A: Background on the merger parties 
Greencross  
Greencross Pty Limited owns and operates specialty pet retail stores (trading as 
Petbarn and City Farmers), veterinary clinics (trading as Greencross Vets) and 
veterinary hospital businesses across Australia.  
Greencross also owns pet food and accessory wholesaler PetWise Pty Ltd (PetWise) 
and veterinary pathology and diagnostic product supplier Vepa Labs Pty Ltd 
(Vepalabs).  
Habitat  
Habitat is a privately owned and operated retailer of specialty pet supplies and 
services through a network of five stores located in metropolitan Melbourne:  
- 
Altona North  
- 
Burwood  
- 
Chirnside Park  
- 
North Melbourne  
- 
Port Melbourne  
Areas of overlap 
Greencross and Habitat (or their related bodies corporate) both offer pet food, pet 
accessories and pet health products for dogs, cats, fish, birds, chickens, reptiles and 
other small animals. Select pet services such as grooming, and DIY dog washing are 
offered by the parties at in-store locations.  
Greencross and Habitat operate online transactional stores at www.petbarn.com.au 
and www.habitatpets.com.au respectively.  
Greencross owns the following specialty pet stores within 5km from an existing 
Habitat store: 
• 
Petbarn Chirnside Park (0.4km from Habitat Chirnside Park) 
• 
Petbarn Box Hill (2.6km from Habitat Burwood) and Petbarn Chadstone 
(4.4km from Habitat Burwood) 
• 
Petbarn South Yarra (4.0km from Habitat Port Melbourne), Petbarn 
Richmond (4.4km from Habitat Port Melbourne), Petbarn St Kilda (4.7km 
from Habitat Port Melbourne) 
Due to these potential overlaps, in relation to local competition effects of the 
proposed acquisition, the ACCC is primarily considering Burwood, Chirnside Park and 
Port Melbourne. 
The proposed acquisition 
Greencross proposes to acquire 100% of the issued share capital of Habitat.  


Attachment B: Questions 
 
1. 
Please provide a brief description of the reasons for your interest in the 
proposed acquisition (for example, you may be a customer, a competitor or a 
supplier to Greencross or Habitat). 
Broad competitive dynamics 
2. 
How competitive is Habitat as a specialty pet supplies and services retailer?  
3. 
How closely do Habitat and Petbarn compete with one another as retail chains?  
In your response, please consider price, range, quality, location, convenience, 
promotional activity and any other relevant factors.  
4. 
To what extent do Habitat and Petbarn compete with: 
a) speciality pet retail chains with both physical and online stores; 
b) independent speciality pet retailers with physical stores; 
c) online retailers of pet products (for example, Pet Circle, Amazon, Budget Pet 
Products, Pet Culture); 
d) supermarkets; 
e) Bunnings; and 
f) discount department stores (e.g. Kmart, Target) and other general retailers?  
In your response, please consider price, quality, location, convenience, range, 
promotional activity and any other relevant factors. 
5. 
Do speciality pet retail chains have competitive advantages over independent pet 
stores and if so, please explain what these advantages are.   
Local competition within Burwood, Chirnside Park and Port Melbourne 
6. 
How far are customers who shop for pet products or services in a) Burwood, b) 
Chirnside Park and c) Port Melbourne willing to travel to buy pet products and 
services in-store? Does this differ depending on the type of pet product/service, 
and if so, how?   
7. 
Please list any alternative suppliers of pet products or services for customers of 
Habitat Burwood, Chirnside Park and Port Melbourne and comment on the 
quality, product/service, pricing and range of those stores.  
 
 
Please list alternative suppliers of pet 
products or services in the local area  
For each alternate supplier, please 
comment on how closely they compete 
with Petbarn and Habitat (you may want 
to consider price, range, quality, 
product/service) 
Habitat Burwood 
 
 
 


Habitat Chirnside 
Park 
 
 
 
Habitat Port 
Melbourne 
 
 
 
Questions for competing retailers of specialty pet products and services 
8. 
Please identify your competitors and estimate market shares for the retail supply 
of specialty pet products and services in Burwood, Chirnside Park and/or Port 
Melbourne (as applicable) and nationally. 
9. 
Have you made changes to your customer offering in response to Habitat? 
Changes could include pricing, product range, services offered (e.g. grooming), 
marketing, display or promotions or store locations.  
10. Please describe what is required to enter into or expand in the retail supply of 
specialty pet products and services in Chirnside Park, Burwood and/or Port 
Melbourne or in Australia more generally. You may wish to comment on the 
following:  
a) the time it would take to enter or expand; 
b) costs that would be incurred; 
c) the scale required to be competitive; 
d) availability of real estate assets;  
e) ability to access wholesale supply of products, including through any 
exclusive or preferential arrangements;  
f) the extent of vertical integration;   
g) importance of brand and the extent of brand loyalty; 
h) examples of recent or failed entry; and  
i) whether the proposed acquisition would impact barriers to entry and/or 
expansion.  
Questions for wholesale suppliers or distributors of pet products and services  
11. Please describe the types of pet products and services you supply in Australia, 
and whether you supply specialty pet retailers and/or supermarkets or general 
retailers.  
12. Please identify your annual supply, by volume and value, of pet products and 
services: 
a) in total (to all customers across Australia);  
b) supplied to Greencross; and 
c) supplied to Habitat. 


 
13. Is the proposed acquisition likely to affect the pricing, product offering, or other 
terms of your supply to Greencross and/or Habitat? If so, how would your 
business likely respond?  
14. Will the proposed acquisition likely affect your ability to supply competitors to 
Greencross and/or Habitat? If so, how? 
Additional information 
15. Please provide any additional information or comments that you consider 
relevant to the ACCC’s consideration of the proposed acquisition. 
