30 
 
Schedule 1 – Dictionary and interpretation  
1. 
Dictionary 
 
ACCC means the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission. 
Act means the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth). 
Agreements means any contract, arrangement or understanding, including any contract, 
arrangement or understanding to renew, amend, vary or extend any contract, 
arrangement or understanding.  
Approved Audit Plan means the plan approved by the ACCC in accordance with the 
terms of this Undertaking, by which the Approved Independent Auditor will audit and 
report upon compliance with this Undertaking. 
Approved Business Sale Agreement means the standard form contract for the 
divestiture of the Unsold Business which has been approved by the ACCC in accordance 
with the terms of this Undertaking.  
Approved Divestiture Agent means the person approved by the ACCC and appointed 
under clause 10 of this Undertaking. 
Approved Independent Auditor means the person approved by the ACCC and 
appointed under clause 9 of this Undertaking. 
Approved Independent Manager means the person approved by the ACCC and 
appointed under clause 8 of this Undertaking. 
Approved Marketing and Sale Plan means the plan approved by the ACCC in 
accordance with the terms of this Undertaking, by which the relevant Approved 
Divestiture Agent will market and effect the divestiture of the Unsold Business. 
Approved Purchaser means the person approved by the ACCC under clause 6 of this 
Undertaking. 
Approved Sale and Purchase Agreement means the contract approved by the ACCC 
in accordance with the terms of this Undertaking, by which the Veolia will divest the 
Divestiture Business to an Approved Purchaser and an Approved Purchaser will acquire 
the Divestiture Business from Veolia.  
Approved Separation and Management Plan means the plan approved by the ACCC 
in accordance with the terms of this Undertaking, by which the Approved Independent 
Manager will: 
a) 
separate the Divestiture Business from any business to be retained by 
Veolia; and  
b) 
manage and operate the Divestiture Business independently of Veolia 
and any retained business. 
Approved Transitional Supply Agreement means any agreement, for the supply of 
goods or services (other than Technical Assistance) by Veolia to the Approved 
Purchaser, approved by the ACCC in accordance with the terms of this Undertaking. 


31 
 
Approved Transitional Technical Assistance Agreement means any agreement, for 
the supply of Technical Assistance by Veolia to the Approved Purchaser (if applicable), 
approved by the ACCC in accordance with the terms of this Undertaking.  
Approved Terms of Appointment means the terms of appointment for the Approved 
Independent Manager, Approved Independent Auditor or Approved Divestiture Agent, as 
applicable, as approved by the ACCC in accordance with the terms of this Undertaking. 
Associated Entity has the meaning given by section 50AAA of the Corporations Act. 
Audit Report has the meaning given to it in clause 9.12 of this Undertaking. 
Business Day means a day other than a Saturday or Sunday on which banks are open 
for business generally in the Australian Capital Territory.  
Change of Control means: 
• 
the assignment or other transfer of the legal or beneficial ownership of some or 
all of the share capital of Veolia to any other person or entity that may impact 
compliance with this Undertaking in its entirety; or 
• 
the sale or transfer of any assets necessary, or which may be necessary, to 
enable Veolia to continue to comply with this Undertaking in its entirety. 
Commencement Date means the date described in clause 3.1 of this Undertaking. 
Consortium means Meridiam, Global Infrastructure Partners, Caisse des Dépôts et 
Consignations and CNP Assurance. 
Control Date means the date on which the Proposed Acquisition is completed.  
Consents means any Government Consents or Third Party Consents. 
Corporations Act means the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth). 
Divestiture Business means the items described in Schedule 4 to this Undertaking. 
Entities Connected has the meaning given by section 64B of the Corporations Act. 
Establishment Audit has the meaning given to it in clause 9.13(a) of this Undertaking.  
Government Consents means any consents from any government agency required for 
the assignment, novation, sale, sub-licensing or transfer of any assets, licences, permits, 
approval or contracts required for the operation of the Divestiture Business. 
Holding Company has the meaning given by section 9 of the Corporations Act.  
Initial Sale Period is defined in Confidential Schedule 5 to this Undertaking. 
Material Change means any change to the structure, attributes, extent or operations of 
the Divestiture Business or product or service sold by a Divestiture Business that may 
affect, or impact on, the competitiveness of the Divestiture Business. 
Material Contract means any Agreement that is necessary for the operation of the 
Divestiture Business.  
New Suez Purchaser means the Consortium.  


32 
 
New Suez Sale Agreement means the Share and Asset Purchase Agreement executed 
by Veolia, Suez and the Consortium dated 21 October 2021 attached at Confidential 
Schedule 7. 
New Suez Transaction means the transaction for the sale of the Divestiture Business as 
between Veolia, Suez and the Consortium. 
Proposed Acquisition is defined in clause 2.4 of this Undertaking. 
Proposed Divestiture Agent means a person named in a Proposed Divestiture Notice. 
Proposed Divestiture Agent Notice has the meaning given to it in clause 10.3 of this 
Undertaking. 
Proposed Independent Auditor means a person named in a Proposed Independent 
Auditor Notice. 
Proposed Independent Auditor Notice has the meaning given to it in clause 9.2 of this 
Undertaking. 
Proposed Independent Manager means a person named in a Proposed Independent 
Manager Notice. 
Proposed Independent Manager Notice has the meaning given to it in clause 8.2 of 
this Undertaking. 
Proposed Purchaser means a person named in a Proposed Purchaser Notice. 
Proposed Purchaser Notice has the meaning given to it in clause 6.2 of this 
Undertaking.  
Public Mergers Register means the ACCC’s public register of merger clearances, 
available at www.accc.gov.au.   
Public Section 87B Undertakings Register means the ACCC’s public register of 
section 87B undertakings, available at www.accc.gov.au.  
Related Bodies Corporate has the meaning given to it by section 50 of the Corporations 
Act. 
Related Entities has the meaning given to it by section 9 of the Corporations Act. 
Related Parties has the meaning given to it by section 228 of the Corporations Act. 
Subsidiary has the meaning given by section 9 of the Corporations Act. 
Technical Assistance includes advising on technical knowledge documentation, 
supporting the Approved Purchaser on acquiring specific assets necessary for the 
ongoing conduct of the Divestiture Business, providing staff with suitable experience and 
skills to assist and/or advice on technical issues, assisting in training for the Approved 
Purchaser’s staff, and providing guidance on regulatory and legal aspects relating to the 
transfer of or application for licences.  
Third Party Consents means any Consent from any entity that is not a government 
agency required for the assignment, novation, sale, sub-licensing or transfer of any 
assets, licences, permits, approval or contracts required for the operation of the 
Divestiture Business. 


33 
 
Transferred Personnel has the meaning given to it in clause 5.7 of this Undertaking. 
Undertaking is a reference to all provisions of this document, including its schedules and 
as varied from time to time under section 87B of the Act. 
Undertaking Appointment means the Approved Independent Manager, the Approved 
Independent Auditor or the Approved Divestiture Agent, as applicable. 
Undertaking Signatories has the meaning given to it in clause 1.1 of this Undertaking. 
Unsold Business has the meaning given to it in clause 10.1 of this Undertaking. 
Veolia means Veolia Environnement S.A and its subsidiary, Veolia Environmental 
Services (Australia) Pty Ltd (ACN 051 316 584).  
 
2. 
Interpretation 
2.1 
In the interpretation of this Undertaking, the following provisions apply unless the 
context otherwise requires: 
(a) a reference to this Undertaking includes all of the provisions of this document 
including its schedules; 
(b) headings are inserted for convenience only and do not affect the 
interpretation of this Undertaking;  
(c) if the day on which any act, matter or thing is to be done under this 
Undertaking is not a Business Day, the act, matter or thing must be done on 
the next Business Day;  
(d) a reference in this Undertaking to any law, legislation or legislative provision 
includes any statutory modification, amendment or re-enactment, and any 
subordinate legislation or regulations issued under that legislation or 
legislative provision;  
(e) a reference in this Undertaking to any company includes its Related Bodies 
Corporate; 
(f) a reference in this Undertaking to any agreement or document is to that 
agreement or document as amended, novated, supplemented or replaced; 
(g) a reference to a clause, part, schedule or attachment is a reference to a 
clause, part, schedule or attachment of or to this Undertaking; 
(h) an expression importing a natural person includes any company, trust, 
partnership, joint venture, association, body corporate or governmental 
agency; 
(i) where a word or phrase is given a defined meaning, another part of speech 
or other grammatical form in respect of that word or phrase has a 
corresponding meaning; 
(j) a word which denotes the singular also denotes the plural, a word which 
denotes the plural also denotes the singular, and a reference to any gender 
also denotes the other genders; 
(k) a reference to the words 'such as', 'including', 'particularly' and similar 
expressions is to be construed without limitation; 


34 
 
(l) a construction that would promote the purpose - or object - underlying the 
Undertaking (whether expressly stated or not) will be preferred to a 
construction that would not promote that purpose or object; 
(m) material not forming part of this Undertaking may be considered to: 
(i) confirm the meaning of a clause is the ordinary meaning conveyed by 
the text of the clause, taking into account its context in the Undertaking 
and the competition concerns intended to be addressed by the 
Undertaking and the clause in question; or 
(ii) determine the meaning of the clause when the ordinary meaning 
conveyed by the text of the clause, taking into account its context in the 
Undertaking and the purpose or object underlying the Undertaking, leads 
to a result that does not promote the purpose or object underlying the 
Undertaking; 
(n) in determining whether consideration should be given to any material in 
accordance with paragraph (m), or in considering any weight to be given to 
any such material, regard must be had, in addition to any other relevant 
matters, to the: 
(i) effect that reliance on the ordinary meaning conveyed by the text of the 
clause would, have (taking into account its context in the Undertaking 
and whether that meaning promotes the purpose or object of the 
Undertaking); and 
(ii) need to ensure that the result of the Undertaking is to completely 
address any ACCC competition concerns; 
(o) the ACCC may authorise the ACCC Mergers Review Committee, a member 
of the ACCC or a member of the ACCC staff, to exercise a decision making 
function under this Undertaking on its behalf and that authorisation may be 
subject to any conditions which the ACCC may impose; 
(p) in performing its obligations under this Undertaking, Veolia will do everything 
reasonably within its power to ensure that its performance of those 
obligations is done in a manner which is consistent with promoting the 
purpose and object of this Undertaking; 
(q) a reference to: 
(i) a thing (including, but not limited to, a chose in action or other right) 
includes a part of that thing; 
(ii) a party includes its successors and permitted assigns; and 
(iii) a monetary amount is in Australian dollars. 
 


35 
 
Schedule 2 – Proposed Purchaser Notice Form 
 
This form sets out the information required by the ACCC in relation to a Proposed 
Purchaser. 
 
Please note in relation to information given pursuant to this form, giving false or 
misleading information is a serious offence.   
1. 
Method of Delivery to the ACCC 
The completed form with requested documents attached may be provided to the ACCC 
using the following method: 
Email  
Subject line:  
Proposed Purchaser Notice – Veolia Environnement S.A and its 
subsidiary, Veolia Environmental Services (Australia) Pty Ltd  
Address: 
mergers@accc.gov.au 
Attention: 
Executive General Manager - Merger and Authorisation Review Division 
 
With an email copy sent to: 
Address:  
mergersru@accc.gov.au 
Attention:  
Director, Remedies Unit, Merger Coordination and Strategy Branch, 
Merger and Authorisation Review Division 
2. 
Information Required 
The ACCC requires the following information in order to assess a Proposed Purchaser. 
2.1 
Proposed Purchaser details: 
(a) Name of the Proposed Purchaser; 
(b) Address; 
(c) 
Contact name; 
(d) Telephone number; 
(e) Other contact details. 
2.2 
A submission containing the following information: 
(a) a description of the business carried on by the Proposed Purchaser 
including the locations in which the Proposed Purchaser carries on its 
business; 
(b) details of the Proposed Purchaser’s experience in the relevant market(s); 
(c) 
the names of the owner(s) and the director(s) of the Proposed Purchaser;  
(d) details of any of the following types of relationships between Veolia and the 
Proposed Purchaser or confirmation that no such relationship exists whether 
within Australia or outside of Australia: 


36 
 
(i) 
Veolia and the Proposed Purchaser are Associated Entities;  
(ii) 
Veolia is an Entity Connected with the Proposed Purchaser; 
(iii) 
the Proposed Purchaser is an Entity Connected with Veolia; 
(iv) 
Veolia and the Proposed Purchaser are Related Entities; 
(v) 
Veolia and the Proposed Purchaser are Related Parties; 
(vi) 
any Related Party, Related Entity or Entity Connected with Veolia is 
a Related Party, Related Entity or Entity Connected with the 
Proposed Purchaser; 
(vii) 
Veolia and the Proposed Purchaser have a contractual relationship 
or had one within the past three years, other than those attached to 
this form; 
(viii) the Proposed Purchaser is a supplier of Veolia or has been in the 
past three years; 
(ix) 
Veolia is a supplier of the Proposed Purchaser or has been in the 
past three years; and 
(x) 
any other relationship between Veolia and the Proposed Purchaser 
that allows one to affect the business decisions of the other; 
(e) a section addressing the following factors, including any information adverse 
to the Proposed Purchaser, in the power, possession or control of Veolia: 
(i) 
whether the draft sale and purchase agreement is consistent with 
this Undertaking;  
(i) 
whether the Proposed Purchaser will complete the transaction as 
contemplated by the draft sale and purchase agreement;  
(ii) 
whether the Proposed Purchaser is of good financial standing;  
(iii) 
whether the Proposed Purchaser has an intention to maintain and 
operate the Divestiture Business as a going concern; 
(iv) 
whether the Proposed Purchaser is able to conduct the Divestiture 
Business effectively;  
(v) 
whether the divestiture of the Divestiture Business to the Proposed 
Purchaser will address any competition concerns of the ACCC, 
including any relationships (including but not limited to shareholding 
interests, other proprietary interests, contracts, arrangements or 
understandings) between the Proposed Purchaser and other entities 
in a relevant market, and the likely long-term viability and 
competitiveness of the Divestiture Business under the ownership of 
the Proposed Purchaser; and 
(vi) 
any other matters that may affect the Proposed Purchaser’s capacity 
or ability to acquire or operate the Divestiture Business, such as 
outstanding legal action or disputes. 
2.3 
Please also attach to this form: 


37 
 
(a) the finalised draft of the sale and purchase agreement for approval by the 
ACCC in accordance with this Undertaking.  
(b) the finalised draft of any transitional technical assistance agreement for 
approval by the ACCC in accordance with this Undertaking. 
(c) 
the finalised draft of any transitional supply agreement for approval by the 
ACCC in accordance with this Undertaking. 
(d) any documents required to support the information provided by Veolia 
pursuant to this form. 


38 
 
Schedule 3 – Undertaking Appointment Form 
 
This form sets out the information required by the ACCC in relation to proposed 
appointment of the following positions under the Undertaking: 
• 
Independent Manager;  
• 
Independent Auditor; or 
• 
Divestiture Agent 
(the Undertaking Appointment). 
This form is to be used for each of the above appointments. 
 
Please note in relation to information given pursuant to this form, giving false or 
misleading information is a serious offence.   
1. 
Method of Delivery to the ACCC 
The completed form with requested documents attached may be provided to the ACCC 
using the following method: 
Email  
Subject line:  
Proposed [only include relevant Undertaking Appointment i.e. 
Independent Manager/Independent Auditor/Divestiture Agent] Notice – 
[insert name of undertaking] 
Address: 
mergers@accc.gov.au 
Attention: 
Executive General Manager – Mergers, Exemptions & Digital Division 
 
With an email copy sent to: 
Address:  
mergersru@accc.gov.au 
Attention:  
Director, Remedies Unit - Policy, Coordination & Strategy Branch, 
Mergers, Exemptions & Digital Division 
2. 
Information Required 
The ACCC requires the following information in order to assess a proposed Independent 
Manager, Independent Auditor or Divestiture Agent (i.e. the relevant Undertaking 
Appointment). 
2.1 
Proposed Undertaking Appointment details: 
(a) the name of the Proposed Undertaking Appointment; and 
(b) the name of the proposed Undertaking Appointment’s employer and contact 
details including: 
(i) 
Address; 
(ii) 
Contact name; 
(iii) 
Telephone number; 


39 
 
(iv) 
Other contact details. 
2.2 
A submission containing the following information: 
(a) details of the Undertaking Appointment’s qualifications and experience 
relevant to his or her proposed role pursuant to the Undertaking; 
(b) the names of the owner(s) and the director(s) of the Undertaking 
Appointment’s employer; 
(c) 
details of any of the following types of relationships between Veolia and the 
Undertaking Appointment or the Undertaking Appointment’s employer or 
confirmation that no such relationship exists whether within Australia or 
outside of Australia: 
(i) 
Veolia and the Undertaking Appointment’s employer are Associated 
Entities; 
(ii) 
Veolia is an Entity Connected with the Undertaking Appointment’s 
employer; 
(iii) 
The Undertaking Appointment’s employer is an Entity Connected 
with Veolia; 
(iv) 
Veolia and the Undertaking Appointment’s employer are Related 
Entities; 
(v) 
Veolia and the Undertaking Appointment’s employer are Related 
Parties; 
(vi) 
any Related Party, Related Entity or Entity Connected with Veolia is 
a Related Party, Related Entity or Entity Connected with the 
Undertaking Appointment; 
(vii) 
Veolia and the Undertaking Appointment or the Undertaking 
Appointment’s employer have a contractual relationship or had one 
within the past three years, other than those attached to this form; 
(viii) the Undertaking Appointment’s employer is a supplier of Veolia or 
has been in the past three years; 
(ix) 
Veolia is a supplier of the Undertaking Appointment’s employer or 
has been in the past three years; and 
(x) 
any other relationship between Veolia and the Undertaking 
Appointment or the Undertaking Appointment’s employer that allows 
one to affect the business decisions of the other;  
(d) details of any existing or past contractual relationships between the 
Undertaking Appointment or the Undertaking Appointment's employer and 
the ACCC within the past three years. 
2.3 
A document outlining the terms of appointment for the proposed Undertaking 
Appointment. This should identify the basis on which fees will be paid, including 
disclosure of any proposed performance-based fees.   


40 
 
3. 
Specific Information required for Undertaking Appointments 
The ACCC requires the below information in relation to the relevant Undertaking 
Appointment.  
Proposed Independent Auditor 
3.1 
A finalised draft audit plan for the Divestiture Business, drafted by the Proposed 
Independent Auditor and outlining (to the extent possible) the Proposed 
Independent Auditor’s plans in regard to the establishment audit and the Audit 
Report. 
Proposed Divestiture Agent 
3.2 
The finalised draft business sale agreement drafted by the Proposed Divestiture 
Agent in consultation with Veolia. The draft business sale agreement is to provide 
for the divestiture of the Unsold Business. 
3.3 
The Proposed Divestiture Agent’s draft marketing and sale plan for the Unsold 
Business. 
Proposed Independent Manager  
3.4 
The finalised draft separation and management plan for the Divestiture Business 
detailing the measures and timing to be implemented by Veolia and the Approved 
Independent Manager in order to fulfil Veolia's and the Approved Independent 
Manager’s obligations pursuant to this Undertaking. This plan is to be drafted by 
the Proposed Independent Manager in consultation with Veolia to achieve the 
objectives of the Undertaking including: 
(a) the intended mode of operation of the Divestiture Business until completion 
of its divestiture; 
 
(b) separation measures to ensure the Divestiture Business is operated in a 
manner which is financially and operationally separate from Veolia, including 
the;  
(i) 
separation of the books and records of the Divestiture Business from 
those of Veolia; 
(ii) 
severance of the Divestiture Business’s participation in any private 
shared information technology networks, to the extent possible 
without compromising the viability of the Divestiture Business; 
(iii) 
implementation of specific electronic, information and physical 
security measures to maintain the confidentiality of any competitively 
sensitive information of the Divestiture Business; and 
(iv) 
severance of arrangements to share personnel and plant between 
the Divestiture Business and any businesses to be retained by 
Veolia to the extent possible without compromising the viability of the 
Divestiture Business; 
(c) 
details of contracts for the provision of goods or services to the Divestiture 
Business which will expire after the completion of the divestiture of the 
Divestiture Business to the Approved Purchaser and the actions which will 
be taken to ensure they are replaced, renewed and/or renegotiated on 
commercial terms favourable to the Divestiture Business;   


41 
 
(d) personnel planning to maintain appropriate personnel levels and ensure that 
the Divestiture Business has access to all personnel necessary to operate 
the Divestiture Business;   
(e) any Material Changes to the Divestiture Business required in order to fulfil 
Veolia’s and the Approved Independent Manager’s obligations pursuant to 
the Undertaking;  
(f) 
the cooperation required from the Independent Manager with Veolia in 
relation to the divestiture of the Divestiture Business, including: 
(i) 
the activities to be conducted by the Independent Manager that are 
necessary for the effective operation of the Divestiture Business, 
having regard to the nature of the Divestiture Business (including the 
extent to which the Divestiture Business already has a management 
structure in place prior to the proposed acquisition that will be 
retained during the hold separate period);  
(ii) 
the method by which due diligence information, site visits and 
personnel interviews by and to prospective purchasers of the 
Divestiture Business will be managed;  
(iii) 
the method by which the Independent Manager and Veolia will 
preserve the confidentiality of the Divestiture Business’s 
competitively sensitive information from Veolia and its advisers 
throughout this process; and 
(iv) 
a protocol whereby the Approved Independent Manager can provide 
any information requested by Veolia without disclosing the details of 
the Divestiture Business’s competitively sensitive information to 
Veolia. 
 


42 
 
Schedule 4 – Divestiture Business 
 
1 
Divestiture Business remedy 
1.1 
Companies to be divested 
(a) 
Suez Water (Prospect) Holdings Pty Ltd and its interest in the Suez 
Water Prospect Partnership; 
(b) 
Suez Water Pty Ltd (Suez Water), its subsidiaries and interests in joint 
ventures to be undertaken by the New Suez Divestiture Business; and 
(c) 
Suez Australia Pty Ltd; 
(together, New Suez Australia entities) 
In each case, as set out in detail in Confidential Schedule 6. 
1.2 
Associated assets 
The Divestiture Business includes all associated assets and liabilities as 
contemplated by the New Suez Sale Agreement but only as applicable in 
Australia. This includes: 
(a) 
The following key contracts:  
(i) 
Water Filtration Agreement relating to the Prospect Water Filtration 
Plant with Sydney Water;  
(ii) 
Design & Construct Contract relating to the Victorian Desalination 
Plant with Aquasure Pty Ltd;  
(iii) 
Operation & Maintenance Contract relating to the Victorian 
Desalination Plant with Aquasure Pty Ltd; 
(iv) 
Integrated Delivery Agreement (Boneo Water Recycling Plant Stage 
4 Upgrade) with South East Water Corporation; 
(v) 
Noosa Design, Construct, Operate and Maintain contract for the 
Noosa Wastewater Treatment Plant with Noosa Shire Council; 
(vi) 
Adelaide Service Delivery Contract (Production & Treatment) 
relating to Various water and wastewater treatment plants and water 
infrastructure in metro Adelaide with SA Water;  
(vii) 
Alliance Agreement for Operation & Maintenance of Perth Seawater 
Desalination Plant with Water Corporation; 
(viii) Kooragang Island Operation & Maintenance Agreement for the 
Kooragang Island Water Scheme Facility with Kooragang Water Pty 
Ltd; 
(ix) 
Ice-Pigging Services Agreement for the provision of ice-pigging 
services for Yarra Valley Water Corporation; and 
(x) 
Intelligent Metering Agreement (D&C and O&M) with Goulburn 
Valley Region Water Corporation. 


43 
 
(b) 
Land, leases or the right to use land associated with the businesses of 
New Suez Australia entities; 
(c) 
Supply and distribution arrangements to which the New Suez Australia 
entities are a party; 
(d) 
Materials contracts to which the New Suez Australia entities are a party; 
(e) 
Licenses / permits and authorisations necessary to carry on the New 
Suez Australia entities; 
(f) 
Plant, equipment, machinery, furniture, fixtures and fittings owned by the 
New Suez Australia entities; 
(g) 
Goods inventory owned by the New Suez Australia entities; 
(h) 
Sales and marketing materials owned by the New Suez Australia entities; 
(i) 
Intellectual property rights that are owned by the New Suez Australia 
entities, including the trademarks, registered business names, logos, 
brands, designs, copyright and rights to use those things; 
(j) 
Business records, including data, books and customer records necessary 
for the New Suez Australia entities; 
(k) 
Contracts, documents, arrangements, undertakings or orders entered 
into, made or accepted by or on behalf of the New Suez Australia entities 
that are not completed or discharged by performance in the ordinary 
course of business; and 
(l) 
Personnel (subject to clauses 5.7 and 5.8). 
 
 


44 
 
Confidential Schedule 5 
 
 
 
  
 
 


45 
 
Confidential Schedule 6 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


46 
 
Confidential Schedule 7 
 
 
