Page 1 of 10 
 
Public Competition Assessment 
29 November 2023 
Veolia - proposed acquisition of Suez  
 
The ACCC’s decision 
1. 
On 21 December 2021, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission 
announced its decision not to oppose the proposed acquisition by Veolia 
Environnement S.A (Veolia) of Suez S.A (Suez) (the proposed acquisition) 
after accepting three section 87B undertakings to divest:  
• 
Certain commercial and industrial waste assets in Sydney, Perth and 
Adelaide, and medical waste assets in Adelaide to Remondis Australia Pty 
Limited (Remondis) 
• 
Suez’s municipal water business (Suez Water) to a consortium of investors, 
and 
• 
Veolia’s interest in Integrated Waste Services (IWS) in Adelaide to First 
Sentier Investors (Australia) RE Ltd (First Sentier Investors) (the 
Undertakings). 
2. 
The ACCC considered that the proposed acquisition was unlikely to contravene 
section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the Act), taking into 
account the Undertakings. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that would have the 
effect, or be likely to have the effect, of substantially lessening competition in any 
market. 
3. 
The ACCC identified over 60 markets requiring investigation to assess the 
competitive effect of the proposed acquisition. The ACCC considered the 
proposed acquisition was unlikely to substantially lessen competition in all but 
the following six markets:  
• 
National / multi-regional commercial and industrial waste collection  
• 
Medical waste collection in South Australia 
• 
Putrescible waste disposal in the Sydney region 
• 
Dry waste disposal in Adelaide 


 
Page 2 of 10 
• 
Design and construction of water and wastewater treatment facilities in 
Australia, and 
• 
Operation and maintenance of water and wastewater treatment facilities in 
Australia. 
4. 
The ACCC considered that without the divestments pursuant to the 
Undertakings, the proposed acquisition was likely to substantially lessen 
competition in these six markets.  
5. 
This Public Competition Assessment outlines reasons for the decision by the 
ACCC not to oppose the proposed acquisition, taking into account the 
Undertakings. 
6. 
Please note that this and other public competition assessments are subject to 
the following qualifications: 
• 
The ACCC considers each transaction on a case-by-case basis and so the 
analysis and decision outlined in one assessment will not necessarily reflect 
the ACCC’s view of another transaction. 
• 
As assessments are relatively brief and do not refer to confidential 
information, assessments do not necessarily set out all of the issues and 
information considered by the ACCC.  
The parties and the transaction 
The acquirer: Veolia 
7. 
Veolia is a public company listed and headquartered in France, with operations 
in 48 countries. In Australia, Veolia supplies water management, waste 
management and energy solutions through various wholly owned subsidiaries. 
The target: Suez 
8. 
Suez is a listed holding company headquartered in France with global 
operations. At the time of the ACCC’s consideration, Suez supplied water 
management and technology, and waste management and resource recovery 
services in Australia. 
The transaction 
9. 
On 5 October 2020, Veolia acquired a 29.9% interest in Suez. At this time, 
Veolia announced its intention to acquire the remaining shares in Suez that it did 
not already own. After receiving an application for informal review and other 
information from the parties, the ACCC commenced its public review of the 
proposed acquisition on 19 February 2021. 
10. On 14 May 2021, Veolia advised the ACCC of substantial changes to the Suez 
assets being acquired. These included: 


 
Page 3 of 10 
• 
A number of Suez’s waste processing facilities in the Sydney region were 
excluded from the proposed acquisition, and were ultimately acquired by 
Cleanaway on 18 December 2021. 
• 
The Suez Water business was also excluded from the proposed acquisition 
and acquired globally by a consortium of investors known as “new Suez”. 
Veolia acquired Suez’s Water Technologies and Solutions business. 
11. The ACCC commenced its review of the revised transaction on 12 July 2021. 
The ACCC suspended its timeline again in September to allow Veolia to propose 
remedies aimed at resolving the ACCC’s competition concerns, and the ACCC 
recommenced the review in November. 
Market inquiries 
12. The ACCC conducted market inquiries with a range of industry participants, 
including competitors, potential competitors, customers, other regulatory 
agencies and other interested parties. The ACCC sought submissions in relation 
to the substantive competition issues and the Undertakings. The ACCC 
conducted inquiries with an extensive number of market participants. 
Industry background 
Waste management 
13. The waste management industry comprises three main categories of activities: 
• 
Collections which involves collecting and transporting the waste to post-
collections facilities for processing or landfilling 
• 
Processing which involves the sorting, processing and recycling of waste, 
and 
• 
Disposal of the waste material that remains after recyclable material has 
been removed, either into landfill or converting waste into a fuel source for 
use in cement kilns or energy-to-waste facilities. 
Types of waste 
14. The major waste types relevant to the proposed acquisition are the following: 
• 
Putrescible waste contains organics such as food waste. 
• 
Dry waste, or non-putrescible waste, is primarily non-organic waste that is 
composed of materials such as paper, cardboard, plastics and metals. Non-
putrescible waste may be recyclable or non-recyclable. 
• 
Commercial and industrial waste is mainly generated from commercial 
buildings and businesses, government facilities, educational institutions and 
industrial sites. Commercial and industrial waste is generally a mix of 
putrescible and non-putrescible materials. 


 
Page 4 of 10 
• 
Medical waste is generally treated by incineration / thermal destruction, or 
autoclaving (i.e. sterilisation) and landfill after treatment. 
Other waste industry participants 
15. Cleanaway Pty Ltd (Cleanaway) is an Australian ASX listed company. 
Cleanaway is a large, vertically integrated waste management company in 
Australia, supplying recycling, waste management and industrial services. It 
does not have operations in water management. 
16. Remondis is a multinational group that supplies waste and water management 
services, and, at the time of the ACCC’s consideration, a smaller waste 
management competitor in Australia when compared with Cleanaway, Veolia 
and Suez. At the time of the ACCC’s consideration, it had operations in New 
South Wales, Victoria, Queensland and Western Australia. 
17. There are various other waste management companies around Australia 
considered “tier 2” and “tier 3” due to their size and geographic presence. JJ 
Richards & Sons Pty Ltd and Bingo Industries Limited are the largest of these 
companies. 
18. First Sentier Investors is a global asset management business with various 
investments in waste globally, including energy-from-waste. 
Water management 
19. Water management services include services to municipal and industrial 
customers. There are different categories that comprise water management 
services relevant to the ACCC’s competition concerns: 
• 
Design and construction of water and wastewater treatment facilities 
involves the design and build of one or more parts of a water treatment, 
recycling or desalination facility. 
• 
Operation and maintenance of water and wastewater treatment facilities 
refers to managing and monitoring the day-to-day activities, and upgrades or 
repairs.  
20. At the time of the ACCC’s consideration, the Suez Water business supplied 
design and construction, and operation and maintenance services mainly to 
large scale (mostly municipal) customers in Australia. The Suez Australian Water 
Technologies and Solutions business, which Veolia acquired, supplied design 
and construction, and operation and maintenance services to industrial 
customers, as well as other water management services. These other water 
management services include: 
• 
Technological solutions, equipment and components used in water 
treatment facilities 
• 
Water and wastewater network maintenance services 
• 
Mobile water services, and 
• 
Chemicals used in water treatment facilities.  


 
Page 5 of 10 
Market definition and competition analysis 
21. The ACCC’s starting point for considering which markets will be affected by the 
proposed acquisition is to identify the areas of overlap between the products and 
services actually or potentially supplied by the merger parties. The ACCC then 
considers other actual or potential suppliers of those products and services, as 
well as what other products and services constitute sufficiently close substitutes 
to provide a significant source of constraint on the merged entity.  
22. The ACCC’s approach to defining each of the six markets of focus is outlined 
below. 
23. The ACCC’s competition assessment was informed by a range of information 
provided by Veolia and Suez, including internal documents. The ACCC also 
conducted extensive market inquiries with, and collected information from, 
interested third parties. 
National / multi-regional commercial and industrial waste collection  
Market definition 
24. At the time of the ACCC’s consideration, Veolia and Suez both provided 
commercial and industrial waste collections in most regions across Australia. 
They competed for national or multi region commercial and industrial customers, 
typically through tender processes, utilising subcontracting arrangements with 
local collections companies to service contracts in the areas where they did not 
have physical operations.  
25. The ACCC considered that there was a distinct market for national or multi 
regional commercial and industrial waste collection services, in addition to local 
and/or regional collections markets. In defining the relevant market, the ACCC 
had regard to market feedback indicating that large customers that require waste 
collection services nationally, or across a number of regions of Australia, will 
conduct one procurement process for all of their sites even if they disaggregate 
their contracts by state. 
26. While customer contracts will also include disposal of the collected waste, the 
ACCC’s view was that collections are a separate market to processing as firms 
do not have to be vertically integrated to compete for collections contracts, 
although each of Veolia, Suez and Cleanaway had their own disposal facilities in 
different regions of Australia at the time of the ACCC’s consideration. 
Competition analysis 
27. The ACCC was concerned that the proposed acquisition was likely to remove 
Suez as a key competitor for national / multi regional commercial and industrial 
waste collection tenders, and substantially lessen the competitive constraint on 
Veolia and Cleanaway. 
28. Veolia and Suez were two of three large, vertically integrated tier 1 suppliers of 
waste management services in Australia. Competition between these tier 1 
suppliers was likely to lead to price and service benefits for customers, 
particularly for national or multi regional customers who generate large volumes 
of waste and have complex service requirements. The ACCC considered that 


 
Page 6 of 10 
tier 2 and 3 competitors do not impose a sufficient competitive constraint as they 
are at a material competitive disadvantage due to a range of factors when 
competing for national / multi regional customers. 
29. As such, the ACCC was concerned that the proposed acquisition would remove 
Suez as a key source of competitive constraint in the market for national or multi 
regional commercial and industrial waste collections services, and result in a 
substantial lessening of competition absent a divestment. 
Medical waste collection in South Australia 
Market definition 
30. The ACCC’s view was that medical waste collection is likely to be distinct from 
the collection of other types of waste, as the collections equipment is generally 
distinct from other waste collections equipment and assigned to specifically 
collect medical waste from customers. Medical waste licences are also required 
to collect medical waste. 
31. As collections companies require physical operations in the state and licences 
from the South Australian Environmental Protection Agency are required for all 
medical waste collectors, the ACCC considered that the geographic dimension 
of the market was likely to be limited to South Australia. 
32. The ACCC considered that medical waste collection is a separate market from 
treatment or disposal of medical waste as vertical integration is not necessary to 
compete for collections contracts. 
Competition analysis 
33. At the time of the ACCC’s consideration, Veolia and Suez were two of three 
medical waste collectors operating within South Australia with their own medical 
waste processing facilities. The other, Cleanaway, owns a medical waste 
processing facility in Victoria. 
34. The ACCC’s review indicated that other medical waste collectors were unlikely to 
constrain a combined Veolia-Suez and Cleanaway. Such that the proposed 
acquisition would lead to increased prices and/or reduced service levels for 
medical waste collection in South Australia, and result in a substantial lessening 
of competition absent a divestment. 
Putrescible waste disposal in the Sydney region 
Market definition 
35. Veolia owned two putrescible transfer stations and the Woodlawn putrescible 
landfill servicing the Sydney region. At the time of the ACCC’s consideration, 
Suez owned eight putrescible transfer stations and the Lucas Heights landfill in 
Sydney. 
36. The ACCC considered that putrescible waste disposal is in a separate market to 
non-putrescible waste disposal due to the licensing requirements from the NSW 
Environmental Protection Agency. While putrescible waste disposal facilities are 
capable of accepting non-putrescible waste, putrescible waste can only be 
disposed of at facilities that are licensed to take putrescible waste. 


 
Page 7 of 10 
37. The ACCC did not reach a concluded view on the precise definition or scope of 
these markets, for example whether transfer stations and landfills are separate 
markets or part of a single waste disposal market. 
38. Both Veolia’s Woodlawn and Suez’s Lucas Heights landfills service the Sydney 
region, and account for a large amount of Sydney putrescible waste disposal. As 
such, the ACCC considered that the geographic dimension of the market was 
likely to be in the Sydney region. 
Competition analysis 
39. The ACCC was concerned that the proposed acquisition would remove Suez as 
Veolia’s closest competitor for the supply of putrescible waste disposal in 
Sydney, and reduce the number of putrescible waste disposal operators from 
three to two.  
40. As such, the ACCC was concerned that the proposed acquisition would 
substantially lessen competition, as Veolia would have the ability and incentive 
to increase waste disposal prices post-acquisition, which may also affect the 
ability of competing waste collectors to compete for collections customers, 
without the exclusion of Suez’s Lucas Heights putrescible landfill and five 
putrescible transfer stations in Sydney from the transaction. 
Dry waste disposal in Adelaide 
Market definition 
41. At the time of the ACCC’s consideration, Veolia owned a 50.1% interest in IWS, 
with a transfer station and landfill licensed to accept both dry and putrescible 
waste, located in Adelaide. Suez had a joint venture in the ResourceCo facility, 
licensed to accept dry waste only. 
42. Further to paragraphs 35 and 36 above, the ACCC considered that there was 
likely to be a market for dry, or non-putrescible, waste disposal which includes 
both non-putrescible and putrescible transfer stations and landfills. 
43. The ACCC did not consider it necessary to arrive at a concluded view on the 
geographic dimension of the market, but considered it was likely to be in 
Adelaide. 
Competition analysis 
44. The ACCC considered the proposed acquisition would be likely to substantially 
lessen competition in the market for dry waste disposal servicing Adelaide. 
45. Through their joint ventures, Veolia and Suez operated two of the three main dry 
waste disposal facilities in the Adelaide region used by commercial and industrial 
collections companies.  
46. The ACCC was concerned that the proposed acquisition would remove Suez 
ResourceCo as a key source of competitive constraint on IWS and the other 
landfills servicing the Adelaide region, resulting in a substantial lessening of 
competition and potentially leading to increased prices for dry waste disposal 
post-acquisition, absent a divestment.  


 
Page 8 of 10 
Design and construction of water and wastewater treatment facilities in 
Australia 
Market definition 
47. At the time of the ACCC’s consideration, Veolia and Suez overlapped in the 
provision of design and construction services for water and wastewater 
treatment facilities in Australia. While neither Veolia nor Suez were active in the 
construction aspect of these services, they would typically partner with 
construction firms to tender for projects. 
48. The ACCC’s view is that design and construction of water treatment facilities is 
separate to the operation and maintenance of water treatment facilities as: 
• 
Design and construction contracts are short term in length, whereas some 
operation and maintenance contracts are up to 15 years in duration. 
• 
The skills required to deliver the services differ. 
• 
Customers have a greater ability to insource operation and maintenance 
requirements. 
49. The ACCC also considered whether there were separate markets for the supply 
of design and construction services to large scale municipal projects, as 
opposed to smaller scale industrial projects, however did not reach a concluded 
view on the precise definition or scope of these markets. 
50. The ACCC considered that the geographic dimension of the market is likely to be 
national. 
Competition analysis 
51. The ACCC considered that Veolia and Suez were two of the largest suppliers of 
design and construction services for large scale projects, and likely to be each 
other’s closest competitors.  
52. The ACCC considered that there were few competitors able to replace the 
competition lost as a result of the proposed acquisition, and barriers to those 
competitors expanding their presence included demonstrated technical capability 
on large scale projects. In comparison, the ACCC considered there are a 
sufficient number of design and construction competitors for industrial projects 
and barriers to entry or expansion are lower. 
53. As such, the ACCC was concerned that the proposed acquisition would remove 
Suez as a close competitor to Veolia, and be likely to result in a substantial 
lessening of competition, absent a divestment. 
Operation and maintenance of water and wastewater treatment facilities 
in Australia 
Market definition 
54. At the time of the ACCC’s consideration, Veolia and Suez overlapped in the 
provision of operation and maintenance of water and wastewater treatment 
facilities in Australia.  


 
Page 9 of 10 
55. The ACCC considered there was a national market for the supply of operation 
and maintenance services. Similar to design and construction services, the 
ACCC considered whether there may be separate markets for the supply of 
services to large scale projects (typically municipal), as opposed to industrial 
projects that are typically smaller scale but did not arrive at a concluded view. 
Competition analysis 
56. The ACCC considered that Veolia and Suez were the two market leaders for 
operation and maintenance services for large scale water and wastewater 
treatment facilities by a large margin, and likely to be each other’s closest 
competitors. 
57. Market feedback indicated that other operation and maintenance providers did 
not have the demonstrated technical capability and expertise, local experience 
and ability to secure large capital in order to compete effectively with Veolia and 
Suez. 
58. Absent a divestment, the ACCC was concerned that the proposed acquisition 
would result in a substantial lessening of competition, and allow Veolia to 
increase prices and/or reduce service levels for large scale operation and 
maintenance projects.  
Undertakings 
59. In order to address the ACCC’s competition concerns in relation to the proposed 
acquisition, Veolia offered three Undertakings pursuant to section 87B of the Act: 
• 
Commercial and industrial and Medical Waste Undertaking: Veolia divested 
a collection of Veolia’s and Suez’s commercial and industrial waste 
collection and medical waste assets in Sydney, Perth and Adelaide, and 
some national commercial and industrial waste customer contracts to 
Remondis. 
• 
IWS Undertaking: Veolia divested its 50.01 per cent interest in IWS in 
Adelaide to Pelican Asset Co Pty Ltd, Pelican Land Co Pty Ltd and First 
Sentier Investors.1 
• 
Water Services Undertaking: Veolia divested Suez’s municipal water 
business, which supplies design and construction, and operation and 
maintenance services for large scale water projects for local authorities and 
municipal customers to a consortium of investors, which is now known as 
‘new Suez’. The consortium is comprised of Meridiam S.A.S., Global 
infrastructure Management, LLC, Caisse des Dépôts et Consignations and 
CNP Assurances S.A. 
60. The ACCC engaged with a range of market participants for feedback on the 
Undertakings.  
 
1  Given the transaction between Veolia and FSI closed prior to completion of the proposed 
acquisition, Veolia was not required to divest its interest in IWS in accordance with the IWS 
Undertaking 


 
Page 10 of 10 
61. The ACCC concluded that the divestiture commitments set out in the 
Undertakings addressed its competition concerns with the proposed acquisition. 
Copies of the Undertakings are available on the ACCC mergers register and 
undertakings register.  
62. Veolia also offered the ACCC a proposed undertaking relating to the divestment 
of Sydney waste assets to Cleanaway to resolve the ACCC’s competition 
concerns in the market for putrescible waste disposal in the Sydney region. This 
was ultimately not required by the ACCC as the transaction between Cleanaway 
and Suez completed on 18 December 2021, prior to the ACCC’s decision. 
Conclusion 
63. Based on the above analysis, the ACCC concluded that the proposed acquisition 
of Suez by Veolia, taking into account the Undertakings, was unlikely to have the 
effect of substantially lessening competition in any market. 
