Public Competition Assessment
17 October 2006
Britax Childcare Pty Ltd - proposed acquisition of BabyLove
Products Pty Ltd
Introduction
1.
On 20 September 2006, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission
(the ACCC) announced its decision to not oppose the proposed acquisition of
BabyLove Products Pty Ltd by Britax Childcare Pty Ltd (Proposed Acquisition).
The ACCC decided that the Proposed Acquisition would not have the effect, or
be likely to have the effect, of substantially lessening competition in
contravention of section 50 of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (the Act) in the
markets for the manufacture and supply of child car restraints and booster seats in
Australia, or the market for the supply of infant wheeled goods (strollers and
prams) in Australia.
2.
The ACCC made its decision on the basis of the information provided by the
merger parties and information arising from its market inquiries. This Public
Competition Assessment outlines the basis on which the ACCC has reached its
decision on the proposed transaction, subject to confidentiality considerations.
Public Competition Assessment
3.
To provide an enhanced level of transparency and procedural fairness in its
decision making process, the ACCC issues a Public Competition Assessment for
all transaction proposals where:
a merger is rejected;
a merger is subject to enforceable undertakings;
the merger parties seek such disclosure; or
a merger is approved but raises important issues that the ACCC considers
should be made public.
4.
In this case, the ACCC considers the merger raises important issues, given the
high level of market concentration in the manufacture and supply of child car
restraints.
5.
By issuing Public Competition Assessments, the ACCC aims to provide the
market with a better understanding of the ACCC's analysis of various markets
and the associated merger and competition issues. It also alerts the market to the


Britax Childcare Pty Ltd - proposed acquisition of BabyLove Products Pty Ltd
-2-
circumstances where the ACCC’s assessment of the competition conditions in
particular markets is changing, or likely to change, because of developments.
6.
Each Public Competition Assessment is specific to the particular transaction
under review by the ACCC. While some transaction proposals may involve the
same or related markets, it should not be assumed that the analysis and decision
outlined in one Public Competition Assessment will be conclusive of the ACCC’s
view in respect of other transaction proposals, as each matter will be considered
on its own merits.
7.
Many of the ACCC’s decisions will involve consideration of both non-
confidential and confidential information provided by the merger parties and
market participants. In order to maintain the confidentiality of particular
information, Public Competition Assessments do not contain any confidential
information or its sources. While the ACCC aims to provide an appropriately
detailed explanation of the basis for the ACCC decision, where this is not
possible, maintaining confidentiality will be the ACCC's paramount concern.
Accordingly, a Public Competition Assessment may not definitively explain all
issues and the ACCC’s analysis of such issues.
The parties
The acquirer: Britax Childcare Pty Ltd
8.
In Australia, Britax Childcare Pty Ltd (Britax) manufactures child car restraints
at its production facility in Victoria and distributes these throughout Australia
through a range of non-aligned retailers. In addition, Britax imports and
distributes infant wheeled goods (strollers and prams) onto the Australian market.
Approximately 80 per cent of the Britax business is child car restraints and the
remainder primarily infant wheeled goods.
The target: BabyLove Products Pty Ltd
9.
BabyLove Products Pty Ltd (BabyLove) specialises in the manufacture and
distribution of child car restraints. It also imports and distributes a number of
nursery products, including infant wheeled goods. Approximately 40 per cent of
the BabyLove business is child car restraints and the remainder primarily infant
wheeled goods.
Market background
10.
There are currently four suppliers of child car restraints in Australia: Britax,
BabyLove, In Good Care (IGC) and Infa Products. Britax is the largest
manufacturer with over half of national production. IGC and BabyLove are the
second and third largest manufacturers respectively. Restraints are sold via
retailers. The major department stores account for the majority of sales, with the
remainder of sales split between major independent chains and smaller
independent retailers.
11.
There are five main types of child car restraints:
the infant restraint or capsule - suitable for ages up to six months old (type A
restraint);


Britax Childcare Pty Ltd - proposed acquisition of BabyLove Products Pty Ltd
-3-
the forward facing child car restraint - suitable for those aged six months to
four years old (type B restraint);
the convertible child restraint - suitable for ages up to four years old (type AB
restraint). A hybrid of types A and B, which can operate as a capsule or a
forward facing restraint for older children;
the convertible booster seat - suitable for those aged six months to seven years
old (type BE restraint); and
the booster seat - suitable for those aged three to seven years old (type E
restraint).
12.
Britax supplies all five types of restraints, while BabyLove supplies all types
except the type BE restraint. While there are five main types of child car
restraints, two types, type AB and type E, account for the vast majority of sales.
13.
All child car restraints sold in Australia must comply with regulatory (product
safety) standards. Since Australian product safety standards (Australian
Standards) are set significantly higher than comparable countries, this increases
the cost of imports (through modification, testing and certification costs).
14.
In relation to infant wheeled goods, available information has indicated that there
is an extremely high level of import penetration, with over 95 per cent of all
products sold being imported. There are a relatively large number of suppliers,
including Britax and BabyLove.
Timing
15.
The following table outlines the timeline of key events in this matter.
Date
Event
1st May 2006
5th May 2006
19th May 2006
20th June 2006
21st June 2006
6th July 2006
11th July 2006
19th July 2006
27th July 2006
10th August
2006
30th August
2006
20th Sept 2006
ACCC commences review under the Merger Review Process Guidelines
ACCC commences market inquiries
Closing date for submissions from interested parties
Proposed announcement of ACCC's findings
Proposed announcement delayed until early July to allow for provision of additional
information. Timeline suspended
Proposed announcement delayed until mid July to allow for provision of additional
information
Proposed announcement delayed until late July (delay requested by merger parties to
allow for provision of additional information)
Additional material received from merger parties. Timeline recommenced
ACCC publishes a Statement of Issues outlining preliminary competition concerns
Closing date for submissions from interested parties responding to the ACCC's
Statement of Issues
Proposed announcement of ACCC's findings delayed to allow for further inquiries
ACCC announced that it would not oppose the acquisition


Britax Childcare Pty Ltd - proposed acquisition of BabyLove Products Pty Ltd
-4-
Market inquiries
16.
The ACCC conducted market inquiries with a range of industry participants,
including competitors, customers, relevant industry and consumer associations,
other regulatory agencies and other interested parties. Submissions were sought
in relation to the substantive competition issues and the preliminary competition
concerns raised in the Statement of Issues.
Statement of Issues
17.
The ACCC published its Statement of Issues on 27 July 2006, identifying a
number of competition concerns. In its Statement of Issues, the ACCC stated its
preliminary view that the Proposed Acquisition would be likely to lead to a
substantial lessening of competition in the markets for the manufacture and
supply of child car restraints in Australia as a result of the following issues of
concern:
the transaction would significantly increase concentration in the manufacture
and supply of child car restraints in Australia;
imports of child car restraints appeared unlikely to constrain the merged
entity;
barriers to entry (or expansion) for child car restraints appeared high; and
countervailing power for both retailers and consumers of child car restraints
appeared limited.
18.
The ACCC sought submissions from market participants on each of the issues
that were raised in the Statement of Issues and any other issues that participants
considered relevant to the ACCC’s assessment of the matter.
Market One: Child car restraints
Market definition
19.
The ACCC’s inquiries revealed that there is clearly a degree of demand
substitutability between some of the types of child car restraints e.g. between
types A and AB, and B and AB. However, there is very limited substitutability
between the two main restraints: type AB and E restraints. The former is
manufactured for ages up to four years old and the latter is manufactured for ages
three to seven years old. Similarly, supply substitutability does not extend across
the entire spectrum from type A to type E child car restraints.
20.
In defining the relevant markets, the ACCC adopted a purposive approach. Type
AB and E restraints account for the vast majority of sales by volume and value,
and also represent the areas where the ACCC would most likely be concerned
about an increase in concentration of market share. As noted above, there is also
very limited substitutability between type AB and E restraints.
21.
As a result, the ACCC focussed on type AB and E restraints and considered the
competitive constraints on the merged entity in setting prices and quality of these


Britax Childcare Pty Ltd - proposed acquisition of BabyLove Products Pty Ltd
-5-
particular restraints. Therefore, the ACCC considered that the following two
markets were relevant in this matter:
the Australian market for the manufacture and supply of child car restraints
for ages up to 3 to 4 years old - type A, type B and type AB restraints; and
the Australian market for the manufacture and supply of child booster seats
for ages 3 to 7 years old - type BE and type E restraints.
22.
Market inquiries indicated that in addition to purchasing new products, there are
two other sources of supply: rental and second-hand purchases. It was therefore
necessary to consider whether rented and second hand child car restraints acted as
a constraint on the pricing decisions of suppliers of new restraints in both
markets. The ACCC’s inquiries revealed that restraints obtained through these
avenues make up under a quarter of child car restraints obtained each year. In
addition, the buying public is extremely well informed on child safety and
technological development issues. Given an ongoing process of revisions to and
strengthening of Australian Standards, it appeared that rented and second-hand
restraints do not significantly constrain the prices of new child car restraints.
Accordingly, these sources of child car restraints were not considered further in
the analysis.
23.
The ACCC also found that for each of the two markets outlined above, there were
distinct high, medium and low segments:
the high-end segment covers the restraints which retail for higher prices and
tend to be distributed, for example, by independent retailers and premium
retailers such as David Jones. The high end of the market includes
restraints that are differentiated in terms of their better finish and additional
accessories.
the low-end segment covers the restraints which retail for lower prices and
tend to be sold solely by the mass market department stores.
the mid-end segment covers the price ranges where both the independent
retailers and the mass market department stores compete, and prices
overlap.
24.
Market participants advised that the different suppliers have adopted different
strategies in relation to these market segments. Britax (via their Safe n Sound
brand) have traditionally focussed more heavily on sales to the mid to high end
of the two markets, but have recently introduced new brands to compete more
strongly in the low end segment. BabyLove has traditionally been strongest in
the low and mid-end segments, but has expanded in recent times to have a limited
presence in the high end segment. In contrast, both IGC and Infa Products
concentrate on sales to the low and mid-end segments of the two markets.
Competition analysis
25.
The ACCC’s investigation of the Proposed Acquisition focused on the high end
segment of the two markets, given Britax’s greater presence in this segment, and
evidence of higher barriers to entry.


Britax Childcare Pty Ltd - proposed acquisition of BabyLove Products Pty Ltd
-6-
Market concentration
26.
The ACCC’s inquiries revealed that the two markets are highly concentrated.
Post-acquisition, there would only be two competitors with the merged firm: IGC
and Infa Products. Britax is the dominant player in both markets, and its
dominance is particularly strong at the high end of both markets, with over 90 per
cent of total sales by volume and value. The ACCC found that BabyLove was not
a significant competitor in this segment, with a very small market share. Post
acquisition, the merged firm would account for over 95 per cent of sales in the
high end segment across both markets.
27.
In contrast, there is greater competition for market share at the low end of the two
markets where IGC, in particular, is a significant competitor.
Actual and potential import competition
28.
As noted earlier, Australian Standards are set significantly higher than
comparable countries. While this does not present an insurmountable barrier to
entry, it increases the cost of imports (through modification, testing and
certification costs). This is particularly the case for the national market for child
car restraints for ages up to 3 to 4 years old (type A, type B and type AB
restraints). While there has been some supply of imported restraints in Australia,
they make up a relatively small proportion of supply. As a result, the ACCC
formed the view that imports are only likely to provide a limited competitive
constraint on the merged firm from increasing prices above competitive levels in
this market.
29.
The situation is different in the national market for child booster seats for ages 3
to 7 years old (type BE and type E restraints). Information before the ACCC
indicated that the main product sold in this market, the type E booster seat, is not
a complex product, and import modification, testing and certification costs are
relatively low. Therefore, the ACCC concluded that the threat of imports is
likely to be a significant constraint on the merged firm in this particular market.
Barriers to entry and expansion
30.
The ACCC considered that the threat of potential new entry would only be likely
to provide a limited competitive constraint on the merged firm within the
foreseeable future.
31.
Information before the ACCC indicated that the combination of substantial sunk
costs, the small size of both child car restraint markets, limited capacity for
growth and the unique Australian Standards all act as disincentives for entry in
the national market for child car restraints for ages up to 3 to 4 years old (type A,
type B and type AB restraints). Further, the minimum efficient scale is relatively
high. A new entrant would need significant financial backing, given the
likelihood of taking 4-5 years to reach the minimum efficient scale.
32.
New entrants face greater barriers at the mid and high-end of this market. The
ACCC’s inquiries indicated that because child car restraints are a safety product,
brand is significant. The ACCC focussed closely on this issue during its
investigation. Britax’s Safe n Sound brand has a high degree of brand loyalty
which has been established over a long period of time. The ACCC considers that


Britax Childcare Pty Ltd - proposed acquisition of BabyLove Products Pty Ltd
-7-
brand loyalty would make it difficult to capture market share from Britax and
may deter entry.
33.
Barriers to entry and expansion are not as significant in the national market for
child booster seats for ages 3 to 7 years old (type BE and type E restraints).
There is less brand loyalty as the product sold is less complex and expensive.
There is also greater potential for import competition in this market.
Countervailing power
34.
During the ACCC’s inquiries it became evident that retailers have a significant
level of countervailing power at the lower and mid end of the two markets, the
segments in which the mass market department stores (for example, Target,
Kmart and Big W) operate. The mass market department stores are in a position
to offer national deals and volume commitments which provide them with
significant bargaining power. In addition, suppliers cannot rely as heavily on
brand loyalty to guarantee them floor space and market share in these market
segments. In the event that the merged entity raised its prices above competitive
levels, these retailers could sponsor new entry.
35.
In relation to the high end of the national market for child car restraints for ages
up to 3 to 4 years old (type A, type B and type AB restraints), the ACCC’s
inquiries indicated that independent retailers and consumers have more limited
countervailing power, particularly given the substantial brand loyalty for Britax’s
Safe n Sound restraints. Small independent retailers would be most affected, as a
child car restraint is a necessary stock item. Retailers are also unlikely to be in a
position to sponsor entry.
Vigorous and effective competitor
36.
BabyLove is a relatively recent entrant to the high end of the two markets. The
ACCC’s investigation confirmed that while BabyLove is the largest competitor to
Britax in this segment, it nonetheless has a very small market share. Further,
BabyLove has not proved an effective constraint on Britax in the high end of the
market. This situation appears unlikely to change in the foreseeable future. In
the mid and lower segments of the two markets, BabyLove is a stronger
competitor. However, as noted earlier, there is greater competition in these
segments and greater potential for new entry.
37.
In the key segment of concern, the high end of the two markets, the ACCC
considered that the Proposed Acquisition was unlikely to result in the removal of
a vigorous and effective competitor.
Prices and profit margins
38.
The ACCC’s inquiries indicated that BabyLove’s relatively recent expansion into
the high end of the two markets has not led to a reduction in prices or improved
quality of child car restraints. Britax has retained its dominant position in this
segment given its strong brand loyalty and reputation for quality.
39.
In the mid and low end segments of the two markets, the factors outlined earlier
are likely to continue to constrain the merged firm from increasing prices above
competitive levels. These factors include greater competition for market share,


Britax Childcare Pty Ltd - proposed acquisition of BabyLove Products Pty Ltd
-8-
the stronger countervailing power of large retail chains and reduced significance
of barriers to entry such as brand loyalty.
40.
The ACCC considered that the Proposed Acquisition would be unlikely to
provide the merged firm with the ability to unilaterally increase its prices or
decrease the quality of its products.
Market Two: Infant Wheeled Goods
Market definition
41.
Market participants did not focus heavily on this area in their submissions. The
ACCC was not aware of any arguments not to include all infant wheeled goods as
part of a single market, and concluded that there was a national market for infant
wheeled goods.
Competition analysis
Market concentration
42.
The ACCC found that there was significant competition for market share in the
national market for the supply of infant wheeled goods. Post-acquisition, the
merged firm would hold a significant market share. However there would be a
number of other firms with a substantial market share, relatively close to the
merged firm in terms of sales.
43.
As noted earlier, most infant wheeled goods sold in Australia are imported.
Taking this fact and the larger number of competitors into account, the ACCC
concluded that there were no major competition concerns in relation to this
market. As a result, no further analysis of this market was undertaken.
Conclusion
44.
On the basis of the above, the ACCC decided that the Proposed Acquisition of
BabyLove Products Pty Ltd by Britax Childcare Pty Ltd would not be likely to
result in a substantial lessening of competition in contravention of section 50 of
the Act in the Australian market for the manufacture and supply of child car
restraints (type A, type B and type AB restraints), the Australian market for the
manufacture and supply of child booster seats (type BE and type E restraints),
and the market for the supply of infant wheeled goods in Australia.
