 
 
1 
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
tel: (02) 6243 1368 
mergers@accc.gov.au
www.accc.gov.au
Our ref: IM-70865  
Contact officer: Nick Schuller / Sara Mirabella  
Contact phone: 02 6243 1158 / 07 3835 4640 
 
11 May 2021 
Dear Interested Party 
Re:  Request for submissions: Woolworths Group Limited’s proposed 
acquisition of PFD Food Services Pty Limited – proposed undertaking  
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is currently reviewing the 
proposed acquisition of a 65% shareholding in PFD Food Services Pty Limited (PFD) by 
Woolworths Group Limited (Woolworths) (the proposed acquisition). 
On 15 December 2020, the ACCC published a Statement of Issues which raised concerns 
that the proposed acquisition may: 
• 
increase Woolworths’ upstream buyer power, 
• 
lessen competition in wholesale food distribution, and  
• 
allow Woolworths to foreclose competitors that are supplied by PFD.   
Woolworths and PFD subsequently offered a draft proposed undertaking to the ACCC 
pursuant to section 87B of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the Act) (the 
proposed undertaking).  
The purpose of this letter is to seek your views on whether the proposed undertaking 
would adequately address the competition concerns identified. Your views will assist 
the ACCC in reaching a final decision on the proposed acquisition. Attachment A to 
this letter outlines the background to the proposed acquisition and a summary of the 
proposed undertaking. A list of specific questions is at Attachment B. 
If you wish to make a submission, please provide it by 9am on Wednesday 19 May 
2021. Submissions may be emailed, preferably in PDF format to 
mergersru@accc.gov.au with the subject line: Submission re: Woolworths/PFD - 
proposed s87B undertaking (Attention: Nick Schuller / Sara Mirabella). 
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
Please note the ACCC has not yet formed a concluded view as to the nature and extent of 


 
2 
competition concerns or whether they are capable of being addressed by the proposed 
undertaking or any other possible remedy. The market consultation process should not be 
taken as an indication that the ACCC will accept the proposed undertaking or that any 
remedy will be capable of satisfying its competition concerns.  
The ACCC may require changes to the proposed undertaking depending on the nature and 
extent of any concerns raised during the market consultation process. The ACCC will only 
accept the proposed undertaking if it is satisfied that the proposed undertaking will 
sufficiently address its competition concerns, and after consideration of the monitoring and 
compliance costs and any risk to competition associated with the implementation of the 
proposed undertaking (or failure to do so).  
If you have any questions in relation to this matter, or would like to arrange a 
teleconference to discuss your response, please contact Nick Schuller on (02) 6243 1158 
or Sara Mirabella on (07) 3835 4640. 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We will not 
disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by 
law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or during court proceedings) or 
in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010.  Where the 
ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, the ACCC will notify you in advance 
where possible so that you may have an opportunity to be heard.  Therefore, if the 
information provided to the ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our 
Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
Daniel McCracken-Hewson 
General Manager  
Merger Investigations Branch 


 
 
3 
Attachment A 
 
Background – the ACCC review  
The ACCC commenced its public review of the proposed acquisition on 23 
September 2020. Further information about the ACCC’s review can be accessed 
from the ACCC’s Mergers Register at: www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister.  
Woolworths 
Woolworths is an ASX listed Australian and New Zealand retailer. Its operations 
include supermarkets, liquor and general merchandise stores as well as licensed 
premises. Woolworths is Australia’s largest grocery retailer. It provides the retail sale 
of grocery products to consumers both in-store and online. 
In addition to its retail operations, Woolworths also supplies food and groceries to 
businesses via its Australian Grocery Wholesalers business (Woolworths AGW) and 
the Woolworths at Work platform. Woolworths AGW’s customers include Caltex as 
well as charitable organisations and two ready meal/meal kit businesses in which 
Woolworths has a financial interest. Woolworths at Work is an online platform by 
which business customers can purchase products from Woolworths’ supermarkets. 
The platform allows for multiple shoppers from businesses to place orders, have 
multiple delivery locations and consolidated monthly invoicing. 
PFD 
PFD is a privately owned wholesale food distribution business in Australia.  
PFD supplies and delivers an extensive range of fresh, frozen and dry goods to over 
39,000 business customers across Australia. It services two broad customer groups: 
Quick Service Restaurants including major national franchisee brands; and other 
food service business such as hotels, supermarkets, restaurants/cafes, petrol and 
convenience, bakeries, airlines and institutions. PFD operates nationally via a 
network of distribution centres and its own logistics fleet.  
In response to the short term impact of COVID-19, PFD recently launched an online 
service called PFD2Home, which allows non-business customers to purchase from it 
(with a minimum order spend of $200). 
Proposed Acquisition 
Woolworths proposes to acquire 65% of the shares in PFD, with a call option over 
the remaining 35% of PFD’s shares, for a total value of approximately AU$302 
million. Originally, Woolworths would acquire PFD’s 26 freehold distribution centres, 
however, these distribution centres are no longer part of the proposed acquisition.1 
Overview of the proposed undertaking  
Woolworths and PFD have offered a draft section 87B undertaking which the parties 
submit is designed to address the ACCC’s competition concerns by maintaining 
separation and independence between Woolworths and PFD for a period of three 
years post-acquisition. The parties submit that the measures will preserve the current 
                                               
1 In May 2021, PFD sold 25 distribution centres to Charter Hall, retaining the remaining 
distribution centre. 


 
4 
market dynamics by allowing market participants to continue to interact with 
Woolworths and PFD independently of one another, for a period of time, and will 
allow the market to adjust to the prospect of Woolworths and PFD ceasing to be 
independent of each other.  
To keep Woolworths and PFD separate, the proposed undertaking requires 
Woolworths and PFD to ensure that the Board and governance structure of PFD will 
be structured and operated in accordance with the commitments set out in a non-
confidential summary of Confidential Schedule 2 of the proposed undertaking. This 
includes that: PFD’s Board will consist of five Directors; Woolworths will appoint three 
Directors; and PFD will appoint up to two Directors, depending on the Equity 
Proportion held by the Smith Family (the other shareholder in PFD).  
The proposed undertaking also requires Woolworths and PFD to:  
• 
implement, maintain and comply with the confidentiality obligations and 
protocols contained in Clause 5 of the proposed undertaking, in addition to 
those contained in a non-confidential summary of Confidential Schedule 3 of 
the proposed undertaking to prevent Woolworths from receiving and using 
Commercially Sensitive Information subject to a number of exceptions, and 
• 
implement training in relation to the obligations in the proposed undertaking 
and also the Food and Grocery Code of Conduct. 
The definition of Commercially Sensitive Information varies depending on the identity 
of the third party to whom the information relates, and it may be broader or narrower. 
The obligations in the proposed undertaking will remain in place for a period of three 
years. However, this period could be shorter if certain early termination provisions in 
the proposed undertaking are triggered. These early termination provisions generally 
depend on PFD’s CEO. For example, if PFD’s CEO ceases to be involved in the day 
to day management of PFD on a full time basis the three year period could end 
earlier.  
The proposed undertaking also requires PFD to implement and publish on its website 
the charter set out in Schedule 4 of the proposed undertaking. The charter reflects 
certain principles of the Food and Grocery Code of Conduct and contains 
commitments from PFD to maintain confidentiality of suppliers’ information and deal 
with suppliers in good faith. These obligations will remain in place for five years.  


 
 
5 
Attachment B 
We have set out below a list of questions you may wish to address in your 
submission. Please feel free to comment on any other issues that you consider 
relevant to the ACCC’s assessment.  
1. Please outline the reasons for your interest in the Proposed Acquisition, 
including any commercial relationship/s with either of Woolworths or PFD. 
2. Does the proposed undertaking provide effective constraints on Woolworths 
and PFD’s ability to: 
a. use any increased buyer power to demand better terms and prices 
from suppliers? Why or why not? 
b. stop Woolworths’ retail competitors from accessing products they 
currently purchase from PFD, or to increase prices for these products?  
Why or why not?  
3. Will PFD continue to be an alternative channel to the supermarkets for 
suppliers, for the duration of the proposed undertaking? Why or why not? 
4. Does the proposed undertaking provide for effective separation measures 
between Woolworths and PFD? Why or why not? 
5. Does the proposed undertaking provide for effective confidentiality protocols 
between Woolworths and PFD? Why or why not? 
6. What information, should be prevented from being disclosed between 
Woolworths and PFD? 
7. In relation to the charter contained in Schedule 4 of the proposed 
undertaking: 
a. does the charter provide for PFD to effectively interact with suppliers 
independently? Why or why not?  
b. do you have any concerns regarding the enforceability of the charter? 
8. The separation obligations in the proposed undertaking last for three years, 
subject to certain early termination provisions. Is the proposed term (noting 
the exceptions) sufficient? 
 
