 
 
1 
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
tel: (02) 6243 1368
mergers@accc.gov.au
www.accc.gov.au
Our ref: IM-70865  
 
Contact officers: Janet Li and Nigel Vise  
Contact phone: (02) 9102 4024, (03) 9290 1468 
23 September 2020 
Dear Interested Party 
Re:  Request for submissions: Woolworths Group Limited’s proposed 
acquisition of PFD Food Services Pty Limited 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
the proposed acquisition of a 65% shareholding in PFD Food Services Pty Limited (PFD) 
and 26 freehold properties used as distribution centres by the PFD business by 
Woolworths Group Limited (Woolworths) (the proposed acquisition).  
Woolworths and PFD are both suppliers and buyers of food and grocery products in 
Australia. PFD is one of the major wholesale food distribution businesses in Australia. 
Through its Woolworths supermarkets, Woolworths is one of the largest food and grocery 
retailers in Australia. Further details regarding the parties can be found at Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact on competition.  In particular, we are 
seeking your views on: 
• 
whether and how Woolworths and PFD compete in the supply of food and groceries 
• 
whether there are alternative wholesale suppliers of food and groceries with similar 
geographic reach and product range to that of PFD 
• 
whether the proposed acquisition will increase Woolworths’ position as a wholesale 
buyer of food and the possible impacts of this. 
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
Please provide your response by no later than 5pm on 9 October 2020. Responses may 


 
2 
be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: Submission re: Woolworths/PFD - 
attention Janet Li / Nigel Vise. If you would like to arrange a time to discuss the matter with 
ACCC officers, or have any questions about this letter, please contact Janet Li on 
(02) 9102 4024 or Nigel Vise on (03) 9290 1468. 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public 
Mergers Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We will not 
disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by 
law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or during court proceedings) or 
in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010.  Where the 
ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, the ACCC will notify you in advance 
where possible so that you may have an opportunity to be heard.  Therefore, if the 
information provided to the ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our 
Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
Sheridan de Kruiff 
A/g General Manager 
Merger Investigations 


 
 
3 
Attachment A 
 
Woolworths 
Woolworths is an ASX listed Australian and New Zealand retailer. Its operations include 
supermarkets, liquor and general merchandise stores as well as licensed premises. 
Woolworths is Australia’s largest grocery retailer. It provides the retail sale of grocery 
products to consumers both in-store and online. 
In addition to its retail operations, Woolworths also supplies food and groceries to 
businesses via its Australian Grocery Wholesalers business (Woolworths AGW) and the 
Woolworths at Work platform. Woolworths AGW’s customers include Caltex as well as 
charitable organisations and two ready meal/meal kit businesses in which Woolworths has 
a financial interest. Woolworths at Work is an online platform by which business customers 
can purchase products from Woolworths’ supermarkets. The platform allows for multiple 
shoppers from businesses to place orders, have multiple delivery locations and 
consolidated monthly invoicing.  
PFD 
PFD is a privately owned wholesale food distribution business in Australia.  
PFD supplies and delivers an extensive range of fresh, frozen and dry goods to over 
39,000 business customers across Australia. It services two broad customer groups: Quick 
Service Restaurants including major national franchisee brands; and other food service 
business such as hotels, supermarkets, restaurants/cafes, petrol and convenience, 
bakeries, airlines and institutions. PFD operates nationally via a network of distribution 
centres and its own logistics fleet. 
In response to the short term impact of COVID-19, PFD recently launched an online 
service called PFD2Home, which allows non-business customers to purchase from it (with 
a minimum order spend of $200). 
 
 
 


 
 
4 
Attachment B 
1. Please provide a brief description of your business or organisation, including any 
commercial relationship/s you may have with either of Woolworths or PFD. 
General 
2. Please discuss the extent to which you consider Woolworths and PFD to be 
competitors in the supply of food and groceries, or may be competitors in the 
future (without this proposed acquisition).  
3. Please explain who you consider to be the main competitors in the wholesale 
supply and distribution of food and groceries. If you consider that particular 
competitors have particular strengths or attributes (for example, the categories of 
food they distribute, their geographic reach, their pricing and terms of supply, 
etc), please describe those. 
4. Please discuss whether prices to Woolworths and PFD’s customers may 
increase, brand options may decrease, or service levels may decrease due to the 
proposed acquisition, for any food or grocery products you procure in Australia.  
5. Please discuss how Woolworths and PFD operate in their procurement of food 
from manufacturers and suppliers. What are the similarities and differences in 
how manufacturers and suppliers deal with Woolworths and PFD? 
6. Please discuss whether prices to Woolworths and PFD’s manufacturers and 
suppliers may decrease or required service levels may increase due to the 
proposed acquisition, for any food or grocery products you supply in Australia. 
Customers of PFD and/or Woolworths 
7. Please identify the categories of food and grocery products that you procure in 
Australia. 
8. Please identify your current suppliers of food or groceries. In your view, do your 
suppliers compete more with PFD, Woolworths, or both? 
9. Please describe how you procure food and groceries – for example, through 
purchase orders, formal tender or other methods. In your response, please state 
how long contract(s) are typically awarded for, the frequency at which you place 
orders, the size of the orders you place, and whether or not any discount is 
offered by the suppliers. 
10. Please identify the key alternative suppliers capable of servicing your needs. In 
your response, please have regard to factors such as the range of products, 
scale of supply, the geographic reach, delivery options, number and location of 
distribution centres etc. 
Manufacturers / suppliers / distributors to PFD and/or Woolworths  
11. Please identify: 
a. which of the following categories of food products you supply to 
Woolworths and/or PFD; 
i. condiments 


 
5 
ii. frozen chips 
iii. fruit/vegetables tinned 
iv. pasta/noodles/soup 
v. poultry 
vi. pies/pasties/pastries 
vii. seafood 
viii. bakery/desserts 
ix. grains/sugar/nuts/spices 
x. dairy/eggs 
xi. any other (please identify) 
b. your annual supply, by volume and value, for each of the above 
categories  
i. in total (to all customers) 
ii. supplied to Woolworths 
iii. supplied to PFD 
iv. that would be supplied to an aggregated Woolworths/PFD  
c. any other food or grocery customer you supply to, and the categories of 
products you supply to those customers. 
12. Who are the main competitors to PFD in wholesale food distribution? How are 
they different from PFD, and what are their advantages and disadvantages 
compared to PFD? If you also supply to these other distributors, outline the 
nature of your supply arrangements with them and how it differs from your 
arrangements with PFD. 
13. Please describe your contractual arrangements with Woolworths and/or PFD. In 
your response, please outline how the contractual arrangements are negotiated, 
whether the arrangement is exclusive, whether any rebates or discounts are 
provided to the purchaser (and the basis for them), the typical duration of the 
arrangement, and when your contract with Woolworths and/or PFD is due to 
expire.  
14. Please discuss the extent to which the proposed acquisition may increase 
Woolworths’ position as a wholesale buyer of food and the possible impacts of 
this. 
Competitors of PFD and/or Woolworths 
15. Explain whether you compete with PFD, Woolworths, or both. If you compete with 
a Woolworths business other than supermarkets, please explain which business 
you compete with and what segment that business operates in. 


 
6 
16. Please describe the: 
a. industry/market that you operate in 
b. geographic area you service 
c. types of customers you service 
d. range of products you supply and who your suppliers are. 
17. Please explain how easy/difficult it is to expand: 
a. the geographic area you service 
b. the types of customers you service 
c. the range of products you supply and the volume of products you supply 
d. your operations (if you are currently servicing only retail consumers or 
businesses) to servicing both retail consumers and businesses. 
18. Please explain the importance or otherwise of having national coverage in 
servicing your customers. 
19. Please describe how important distribution centres (and location) are in the way 
you supply your customers and compete in the market.  
20. Please explain whether any of your customers compete with both PFD’s 
customers and Woolworths’ regular supermarkets or ‘Metro’ stores.  
Other information or competition issues 
21. Please provide any additional information or comments relevant to the ACCC’s 
consideration.  
