Page 1 of 13 
 
Statement of Issues 
15 December 2020 
 Woolworths – proposed acquisition of 65% of the shares 
in PFD Food Services  
Purpose 
1. 
Woolworths Group Limited (Woolworths) proposes to acquire 65% of the 
shares of PFD Food Services Pty Limited (PFD), freehold properties used in 
PFD’s business and a call option over the remaining 35% of PFD’s shares 
(proposed acquisition). 
2. 
This Statement of Issues: 
 
gives the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission’s (ACCC) 
preliminary views on competition issues arising from the proposed 
acquisition,  
 
identifies areas of further inquiry, and 
 
invites interested parties to submit comments and information to assist our 
assessment of the issues. 
3. 
Statements of Issues are not final decisions and do not refer to confidential 
information provided by the parties or other market participants and therefore 
may not fully articulate the ACCC’s position. 
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views 
4. 
In considering the proposed acquisition, the ACCC applies the legal test set out 
in section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the CCA). In general, 
terms, section 50 prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to 
have the effect, of substantially lessening competition in any market. 
5. 
The ACCC divides its preliminary views into three categories, 'issues of concern', 
'issues that may raise concerns' and ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’. In this 
Statement of Issues there are three issues that may raise concerns. 


Woolworths – proposed acquisition of 65% of the shares in PFD Food Services 
 
Page 2 of 13 
Issues that may raise concerns  
 
Potential to increase Woolworths’ upstream buyer power  
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition will increase Woolworths’ 
already strong bargaining power in dealing with suppliers, as well as remove an 
important alternative buyer, which may lead to a substantial lessening of 
competition in the acquisition of food products from suppliers. 
 
Potential lessening of competition in wholesale food distribution 
The ACCC has concerns that the proposed acquisition will enable PFD to obtain 
considerably improved prices and terms from suppliers (that it would be unlikely 
to obtain independently of the proposed acquisition), providing it with a distinct 
advantage over its competitors. While some end customers in the market would 
benefit from this in the short-term, in the longer-run this could lead to the exit of 
rivals and therefore a lessening of competition. 
 
Vertical foreclosure by Woolworths 
The ACCC has concerns that PFD supplies some retail competitors of 
Woolworths, which may lead to full or partial foreclosure by Woolworths. 
Making a submission 
6. 
Interested parties should provide submissions by 5pm on 1 February 2021. 
Responses may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: Submission 
re: Woolworths/PFD - attention Janet Li/Nigel Vise. If you would like to discuss 
the matter with ACCC staff or have any questions about this Statement of 
Issues, please contact Nigel Vise on (03) 9290 1468 or Janet Li on (02) 9102 
4024.  
7. 
Although the ACCC anticipates making a final decision on 22 April 2021, this 
timeline can change. To keep up with possible timing changes and to find 
relevant documents, interested parties should visit the Mergers Register on the 
ACCC's website at www.accc.gov.au/publicregisters/mergers-registers/public-
informal-merger-reviews. 
Confidentiality of submissions 
8. 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We 
will also not disclose submissions to third parties (except our 
advisors/consultants) unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of 
information legislation or during court proceedings) or in accordance with 
s155AAA of the CCA. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where possible so that you may 
have an opportunity to be heard. Therefore, please identify any confidential 
information that is provided to the ACCC. Our Informal Merger Review Process 
Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’ 
9. 
A Statement of Issues is not a final decision about a proposed acquisition. A 
Statement of Issues outlines the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing attention to 
particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well as identifying 
the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 


Woolworths – proposed acquisition of 65% of the shares in PFD Food Services 
 
Page 3 of 13 
10. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 
The parties 
Woolworths 
11. 
Woolworths is an ASX-listed Australian and New Zealand retailer. Its operations 
include supermarkets, liquor and general merchandise stores as well as licensed 
premises. Woolworths operates a national vertically integrated supermarket 
business, controlling its own distribution centres for the vast majority of products, 
and is one of Australia’s largest grocery retailers. It sells grocery products in-
store and online. 
12. 
In addition to its retail supermarkets, Woolworths supplies food and groceries to 
businesses via its Australian Grocery Wholesalers business (Woolworths AGW) 
and Woolworths at Work platform.  
 
Woolworths AGW is a wholesale business supplying Caltex petrol stations 
as well as charitable organisations and two ready meal/meal kit businesses 
in which Woolworths has a financial interest.  
 
Woolworths at Work is an online platform recently established to supply 
Woolworths’ supermarket products to businesses. 
13. 
Woolworths also has a majority interest in ALH Group, which operates hotels 
and licensed venues. Many of these venues would be customers of PFD or 
PFD’s rivals.  
PFD 
14. 
PFD is a private family-owned wholesale food distribution business supplying to 
food service customers nationally.  
15. 
PFD supplies and delivers an extensive range of frozen, chilled, dry goods and 
fresh seafood and meat to over 39,000 business customers across Australia. It 
operates a national footprint of distribution centres and a large fleet of delivery 
vehicles. PFD supplies Quick Service Restaurants (QSRs), Petrol & 
Convenience (P&C), pubs, hotels, bakeries, hotels and institutional customers 
such as hospitals and aged care facilities. PFD also supplies some 
supermarkets, typically with food products such as fresh seafood.   
16. 
PFD has some food manufacturing capabilities at some of its distribution centres 
including sandwiches, fresh meat and fresh seafood. 
Other industry participants 
17. 
In addition to PFD there are other wholesale food distributors. 
Bidfood 
18. 
Bidfood is an ANZ subsidiary of South African listed Bid Corp. It is a wholesale 
food distributor of dry, chilled and frozen goods as well as non-food items 
including packaging products and cleaning aids. Bidfood has a presence in 
capital cities and major regional areas in Australia. Bidfood’s main customers 


Woolworths – proposed acquisition of 65% of the shares in PFD Food Services 
 
Page 4 of 13 
include pubs and clubs, airlines, hotels, restaurants, cafes, fast food outlets, 
hospitals and aged care facilities. 
19. 
The ACCC understands that Bidfood and PFD are the two largest wholesale 
food distributors in Australia. 
Buying groups – NAFDA and Countrywide  
20. 
There are two large wholesale food distribution buying groups – NAFDA and 
Countrywide. “The Distributors” is a third, smaller buying group. 
21. 
Buying groups aggregate demand from a number of smaller member businesses 
and negotiate with suppliers based on that aggregated demand. Buying groups 
are discussed in more detail in paragraph 30.  
22. 
Countrywide’s members have more than 160 distribution locations and NAFDA’s 
members have over 70 distribution locations nationally. 
Superior Food Services 
23. 
Superior Food Services (Superior) is a private wholesale food distributor, 
majority owned by Quadrant Private Equity. It supplies dry, chilled and frozen 
products as well as packaging and cleaning products. Superior has over 20 
branches nationally. Like Bidfood and PFD, its main customers include pubs and 
clubs, hotels, restaurants, cafes, and fast food outlets.  
24. 
Superior is a member of Countrywide and the ACCC understand that Superior is 
the third largest wholesale food distributor after PFD and Bidfood. 
Industry background 
Wholesale food services and retail channels 
25. 
Food suppliers produce, import, process and/or supply food products. There are 
generally two different channels they supply: wholesale food distributors 
(sometimes referred to as ‘out of home’) and supermarket (retail). PFD mainly 
operates in the wholesale food distribution channel and Woolworths mainly in the 
supermarket channel.  
26. 
The wholesale food distribution channel serves business customers such as 
QSRs, cafes, restaurants, pubs, hotels, P&C, supermarkets (for some limited 
product lines), bakeries and institutional customers, while the supermarket 
channel serves end customers such as households and some small businesses. 
Pack sizes of products 
27. 
Due to the differing customer bases, wholesale food distributors generally 
purchase and supply products in bulk or in large format packaging, such as a 
10kg pack of frozen chips. On the other hand, supermarkets generally purchase 
and supply products in smaller retail packaging, such as 500g or 1kg frozen 
chips.  
Supply chain 
Wholesale food distributors 
28. 
As noted above, wholesale food distributors acquire products from suppliers, 
such as food manufacturers. Often smaller wholesale food distributors stock 
products from small local suppliers as well as larger suppliers. The ACCC 
understands that smaller suppliers rely on smaller (local) wholesale food 
distributors as their primary distribution channel to access end customers.  


Woolworths – proposed acquisition of 65% of the shares in PFD Food Services 
 
Page 5 of 13 
29. 
Some large business customers (such as QSR chains) may negotiate pricing 
and product ranges directly with the suppliers. The QSR will then engage a 
wholesale food distributor (such as PFD) to warehouse and distribute the 
products to the QSR’s restaurants. Generally, smaller customers will purchase 
directly from the wholesale food distributors. 
Buying groups 
30. 
Buying groups represent many independent, often small, wholesale food 
distributors. These buying groups use the aggregated buying power of their 
members to negotiate prices with larger suppliers. Members of the buying group 
will subsequently order and contract directly with the suppliers using the price 
negotiated by the buying group. Individual members are also able to negotiate 
separately with suppliers if they wish to do so (which often is the case for smaller 
suppliers). 
Supermarkets 
31. 
Supermarkets mostly acquire their products direct from suppliers. However, 
some products are acquired via wholesale food distributors. 
32. 
Coles and Woolworths tend to acquire products from large suppliers that are 
able to fulfil their large volume purchase orders and supply nationally. 
Price lists 
33. 
As wholesale food distributors and supermarkets generally require differently 
sized and packaged products, the products are generally priced differently with 
suppliers using separate price lists for wholesale food distribution and 
supermarket channels.  
34. 
The terms of trade negotiated on top of the price lists also differ for wholesale 
food distributors and supermarkets. As a result, it is common for suppliers to 
have separate teams and staff who engage and negotiate with the wholesale 
food distribution and supermarket channels. 
Rebates 
35. 
Rebates are payments made by suppliers to large purchasers (wholesale food 
distributor or supermarkets) to support the purchaser. There are two main types 
of rebates: 
 
Volume rebates: rebates to the purchaser based on the volume or value of 
purchases and distribution-related allowances to cover warehousing and 
transport costs incurred by the purchaser. 
 
Promotional rebates: supplier contributions to sales promotions of a certain 
product or advertising. 
36. 
Rebates tend to be different for wholesale food distributors and supermarkets:  
 
Volume rebates paid to supermarkets are typically higher than those paid 
to wholesale food distributors. This may in part reflect the logistical cost 
savings to suppliers from supermarkets purchasing larger volumes than 
wholesale food distributors. Further, major supermarkets operate large 
centrally-located distribution centres (DCs). By accepting deliveries at DCs 
rather than many more smaller warehouses, large supermarkets may allow 
suppliers to avoid some of the transport costs they need to bear when 
supplying wholesale food distributors.  
 
Promotional rebates are often only paid to supermarkets. This may be 
because promotion and advertising is more important for spurring 


Woolworths – proposed acquisition of 65% of the shares in PFD Food Services 
 
Page 6 of 13 
supermarkets sales to end customers than in wholesale food distributor 
sales. 
37. 
However, in both cases, the higher rebates paid to supermarkets relative to 
wholesale food distributors may reflect the greater buyer power that large 
national supermarkets such as Woolworths can exercise when negotiating with 
suppliers. 
The proposed transaction 
38. 
Woolworths proposes to acquire 65% of the shares in PFD, with a call option 
over the remaining 35% of PFD’s shares, for a total value of approximately 
AU$552 million.  
39. 
Under the proposed transaction: 
 
Woolworths will acquire PFD’s 26 freehold distribution centres. 
 
Woolworths and PFD submit that they intend to continue to largely operate 
PFD as a separate business independent of Woolworths’ other businesses 
with information barriers in place. 
Areas of overlap 
Acquisition of food products from suppliers 
40. 
Woolworths and PFD both acquire food products from suppliers.  
41. 
There are a large number of suppliers that Woolworths and PFD currently both 
purchase from. While these suppliers generally make up a low percentage of the 
total number of suppliers that each party purchases from, they make up a large 
proportion of the value of PFD’s purchases.  
Supply of food products to some retailers 
42. 
Woolworths and PFD also overlap at the margins in the supply of food products 
to some food service customers. Woolworths supplies food in competition with 
PFD through Woolworths AGW, Woolworths at Work and its online Woolworths 
Supermarket platform.  
Relevant markets 
Product and functional dimensions of the markets 
43. 
Although PFD and Woolworths primarily supply different types of customers, 
they both purchase food from the same or similar suppliers. The ACCC is 
therefore considering both upstream and downstream product markets: 
 
Upstream markets for the acquisition of food products: Woolworths and 
PFD are both significant purchasers of various types of food products from 
suppliers.  
 
Downstream markets for the supply of food products to end customers 
(consumers) and to business customers (food service businesses). 
Upstream acquisition of food 
44. 
The ACCC considers that supermarkets and wholesale food distributors are 
likely to compete in the same acquisition markets for most types of food product. 


Woolworths – proposed acquisition of 65% of the shares in PFD Food Services 
 
Page 7 of 13 
45. 
As noted above, many suppliers can and do supply products to both 
supermarkets and wholesale food distributors, although some smaller and niche 
suppliers are more specialised and can only supply on a local or regional basis 
to food service distributors.  
46. 
The ACCC notes that supermarkets and wholesale food distributors generally 
purchase different-sized products, and suppliers tend to use different price lists 
and different teams to service the two channels. However, the actual food 
product is generally the same, or is produced with the same equipment. 
Therefore, for most food products, suppliers can likely switch between producing 
for the wholesale distribution and supermarket channels at minimal cost.  
Food acquisition categories 
47. 
The ACCC is further considering whether there could be separate upstream 
acquisition markets based on product categories.  Market participants have 
referred to the following product categories and the ACCC is considering the 
extent to which each may form separate product markets: 
 
Dry food 
 
Chilled 
 
Frozen 
 
Dairy 
 
Fresh meat 
 
Fresh seafood 
48. 
Supermarkets and wholesale distributors generally purchase food across a 
range of categories, but would not regard goods in one category to be readily 
substitutable by goods in another. They also frequently operate teams that focus 
on purchasing particular product categories such as seafood. There may be a 
degree of differentiation in specialisation by wholesale food distributors. 
However, many of them purchase multiple categories. 
49. 
Many suppliers focus on particular product categories or on particular goods 
within those categories, although some larger suppliers may supply multiple 
goods across multiple categories. This suggests there are likely to be some 
complementarities between producing different types of food products, although 
the extent of these complementarities vary. In any case, supply-side substitution 
is unlikely to be significant, as suppliers typically cannot switch easily from 
manufacturing one type of product or category of products to another. 
50. 
The ACCC is also considering whether there could be separate markets for 
narrower product categories. 
Downstream supply of food 
51. 
As discussed above, supermarkets and wholesale food distributors like PFD 
principally supply different types of customers.  
52. 
Products supplied mainly through the wholesale food distribution channel are 
targeted at business customers such as cafes and restaurants. Products sold 
through the supermarket channel are targeted at consumers. Some food service 
businesses do buy a portion of their needs from supermarkets like Woolworths, 
but this tends to occur to only a small degree. 
53. 
Therefore, the ACCC considers that it is likely there are separate downstream 
markets for the retail supply of food products to supermarket customers (i.e. 


Woolworths – proposed acquisition of 65% of the shares in PFD Food Services 
 
Page 8 of 13 
consumers) and the wholesale distribution of food products to food services 
customers.  
Geographic dimension of the market 
54. 
The ACCC considers that it is likely that there are a range of geographic markets 
for the acquisition of food products. These markets range from national to 
regional. 
55. 
National buyers generally prefer to acquire from suppliers that can supply 
nationally to any of their distribution centres. However, there are circumstances 
where national businesses may buy from local or regional suppliers.   
56. 
Many larger suppliers have the ability to supply their products to customers 
nationally. However, smaller suppliers have more limited coverage, often only 
supplying on a state or even regional basis. 
57. 
In many cases, smaller suppliers are unlikely to have the capacity to supply 
volumes required by national supermarkets and are likely to supply to local food 
service distributors and independent supermarkets. Accordingly, the ACCC 
considers that the focus of its investigation should be on national markets, where 
Woolworths and PFD both operate as buyers. 
The ACCC invites comments in relation to the ACCC’s consideration of the relevant 
market(s). In particular, you may wish to comment on the following: 
 
How easy or difficult is it for food suppliers to switch from supplying food products 
to wholesale food distributors (in bulk or large format) to supplying supermarkets 
(smaller format), or vice versa. 
 
The extent to which there are different markets for different product categories. If 
so, identify the product categories and explain why. 
 
The importance of food suppliers or distributors being able to supply nationally. 
Barriers to entry and expansion 
58. 
Market feedback suggests that there are high barriers to entry into wholesale 
food distribution, particularly to replicate the scale of a business such as PFD 
which operates on a national basis. Expanding from one geographic area into 
new markets can also be time consuming and costly.  
59. 
In order to compete effectively, wholesale food distributors require warehouse 
premises, a fleet of delivery vehicles, as well as a range of food supply 
arrangements.  
60. 
Accordingly, new entry or expansion would require significant investment in 
capital expenditure and significant contractual commitments to suppliers and 
employees. Much of these investments and commitments are likely to be sunk or 
otherwise unavoidable once incurred. 
The ACCC invites comments in relation to barriers to entry or expansion into retail 
supermarkets and wholesale food distribution. In particular, market participants may 
wish to comment on the following: 
 
The barriers to new entry and/or expansion for a wholesale food distributor.  


Woolworths – proposed acquisition of 65% of the shares in PFD Food Services 
 
Page 9 of 13 
 
Could an existing food distributor enter or expand into supermarket retailing? If this 
is possible, how easy would it be and what would be required for a party to 
succeed? 
Issue that may raise concerns: potential to increase 
Woolworths’ upstream buyer power  
61. 
Food manufacturers generally supply to supermarkets or wholesale food 
distributors, which act as the distribution channels to end customers. In some 
cases suppliers deal directly with the end customers, such as QSR. However, in 
these instances they generally engage a wholesale food distributor to transport 
their products to the QSR. 
62. 
The largest customers of food manufacturers are the two national supermarket 
groups, Metcash and the large wholesale food distributors and buying groups – 
Bidfood, PFD, Countrywide and NAFDA. 
63. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition may substantially lessen 
competition in the acquisition of food products from suppliers by: 
 
removing PFD as an independent buyer; and 
 
increasing Woolworths’ overall size as a buyer. 
64. 
Market feedback suggests that although it accounts for a lower percentage of 
sales volumes and revenue, the wholesale food distribution channel is a very 
important channel for suppliers as it can act as a ‘hedge’ against over reliance 
on supermarkets. Some suppliers submitted that they can generate greater 
margin from the wholesale food distribution channel than the supermarket 
channel.  
65. 
PFD is presently the second largest wholesale food distributor nationally. As 
such, some suppliers submitted that they view PFD as an important outside 
option and check on the buyer power held by Woolworths and Coles and the risk 
associated with losing either of them as a customer. 
66. 
Woolworths and PFD both currently acquire a significant proportion of their food 
products from many of the same suppliers. The removal of PFD and aggregation 
of its demand with Woolworths’ will reduce the number of potential buyers in the 
market for the acquisition of food products. It will also strengthen one of the two 
dominant existing buyers (Woolworths and Coles), potentially weakening 
competition in a concentrated market. 
67. 
As Woolworths grows in size as a buyer, and PFD is removed as an option for 
suppliers, competition is lessened in the acquisition market. Woolworths will 
have a greater ability to use its buyer power to push down the price of suppliers’ 
goods. 
68. 
Pre-acquisition, when Woolworths negotiates to extract as low prices as it can 
from suppliers, it knows that at some point a supplier will walk away, and try to 
survive by focussing on other customers. Post-merger, removing PFD from that 
pool of other customers that the supplier can focus on means Woolworths can 
push the suppliers even harder. This could include Woolworths switching or 
indicating it could switch some of PFD’s purchases away from branded goods to 
private label goods. 
69. 
This loss of an alternative customer and increase in Woolworths’ bargaining 
power will lead to a loss of rivalry on the demand side. 


Woolworths – proposed acquisition of 65% of the shares in PFD Food Services 
 
Page 10 of 13 
70. 
A weakening of competition will likewise give a dominant buyer, such as 
Woolworths, increased bargaining power in relation to a range of terms. For 
example, it could increase Woolworths’ ability to place further obligations on 
suppliers in areas such as responsible sourcing, membership of accreditation 
programs etc. 
71. 
On the other hand, there are other supermarket customers and other wholesale 
food distribution customers, and the existence of these other buyers may 
constraint any anti-competitive effects.  
72. 
The ACCC is also concerned that the increase in Woolworths’ bargaining power 
as a result of the proposed acquisition could have a number of other, 
consequential adverse effects on competition: 
 
Suppliers may exit as their margins are excessively squeezed. 
 
New entry, investment and innovation in food manufacturing and supply 
may be reduced or ‘chilled’.  
 
Suppliers may have incentives to raise prices to other competing buyers 
with less bargaining power. 
73. 
These outcomes could in turn:  
 
harm competition in upstream markets for the acquisition of fresh and 
unprocessed food from primary producers; and 
 
raise downstream prices for food supply to end consumers.   
The ACCC invites comments on its concerns in relation to the effects of Woolworths’ 
increased buyer power on upstream supply. In particular, market participants may wish 
to comment on the following: 
 
To what extent does Woolworths have and exercise bargaining power? What 
would be the impact of the proposed acquisition on Woolworths’ bargaining power? 
 
How will food product suppliers likely respond to Woolworths’ potentially increased 
bargaining power? 
 
How will food product suppliers likely respond to the loss of an alternative buyer? 
 
The effects on competition in markets for the acquisition of food product from 
suppliers if PFD was removed as a buyer. 
 
Identify the most important buyers in markets for the acquisition of food product 
from suppliers and explain why they are important. 
 
How important is PFD as an alternative customer for food suppliers, and to what 
extent does PFD currently constrain the buyer power of other purchasers from food 
product suppliers? 
 
What alternative wholesale food distributors have the capability to supply 
nationally? 


Woolworths – proposed acquisition of 65% of the shares in PFD Food Services 
 
Page 11 of 13 
Issue that may raise concerns: potential for the proposed 
acquisition to lessen competition in wholesale food 
distribution  
74. 
Based on market feedback, the ACCC has concerns that Woolworths’ increased 
bargaining power when dealing with common and other similar suppliers may 
give PFD cost advantages that other wholesale food distributors may not be able 
to obtain from those suppliers and this could lessen competition in food 
distribution.  
75. 
Market feedback suggests that suppliers use different price lists for the 
supermarket and wholesale food distribution channels. Further, the terms of 
trade and rebates often differ between these two channels, potentially leading to 
different cost structures for distributors compared to large national supermarkets. 
76. 
For the concerns raised by market participants to have the potential to cause 
competitive harm, post-acquisition PFD would need to be able to obtain more 
favourable terms from suppliers than it could have obtained without Woolworths’ 
bargaining power. The ACCC is considering the extent to which the proposed 
acquisition could enable this. 
77. 
More favourable terms may be available in relation to suppliers that produce 
food products acquired by PFD and/or Woolworths. In relation to: 
 
Common suppliers that supply PFD and Woolworths – the merged entity 
may threaten to switch its combined volumes to another supplier if PFD 
does not receive more favourable terms than it did prior to the acquisition 
(or the threat may be implicit with the supplier feeling that it risked losing 
Woolworths’ business if it didn’t offer more favourable terms (than 
previously) to PFD); and 
 
Non-common suppliers that supply PFD but not Woolworths, but where 
Woolworths purchases the same or similar products from another supplier 
– the merged entity may be able to threaten (or the supplier may feel 
implicitly threatened) PFD’s current suppliers that it will switch PFD’s 
purchases to another supplier that currently serves Woolworths but not 
PFD if PFD does not receive more favourable terms than it did prior to the 
acquisition.  
78. 
Market participants are concerned that rival wholesale food distributors (without 
Woolworths’ bargaining power) may not be able to obtain these more favourable 
terms, rendering them less competitive. This may lead to rival wholesale food 
distributors reducing their range, quality of service or exiting the market.  
79. 
The ACCC notes that Woolworths and PFD have announced that PFD will 
continue to operate as separate business and they will put processes in place to 
keep information separate. However, operational separation arrangements such 
as information barriers are in the control of Woolworths and PFD and therefore 
subject to change. These measures will not change the economic and 
commercial incentives of the merger parties. Therefore, for the purpose of this 
review, the ACCC is assessing the impact of the proposed acquisition assuming 
that Woolworths and PFD will have the ability to share information and will 
operate as a combined entity with aligned interests and incentives. 
80. 
If the proposed acquisition caused the exit of rival food distributors, it could result 
in the following: 


Woolworths – proposed acquisition of 65% of the shares in PFD Food Services 
 
Page 12 of 13 
 
PFD gaining increased market power and the ability to increase its prices 
to food distribution customers. 
 
As smaller suppliers rely on smaller wholesale food distributors to take 
their products to market, if smaller wholesale food distributors exit, small 
suppliers may lose their local distribution channel. This could result in the 
loss of product diversity and choice for customers of wholesale food 
distributors, as well as harming competition in markets for the supply of 
certain categories of food products. 
 
The loss of smaller, locally-based wholesale food distributors could lead to 
a reduction in service quality (e.g. frequency and reliability of deliveries) for 
those local areas. 
The ACCC invites comments on the concerns in relation to Woolworths’ increased 
buyer power on downstream wholesale food distribution. In particular, market 
participants may wish to comment on the following: 
 
Whether, and if so, the extent to which food product suppliers’ price lists and 
supply terms/rebates differ between wholesale food distributors and supermarkets.  
 
The type of rebates paid to the wholesale food distribution channel versus the 
supermarket channel. 
 
Margins made by food product suppliers in relation to the wholesale food 
distribution channel versus the supermarket channel. 
 
The proportion of a wholesale distributor’s revenue that is taken up by the Cost of 
Goods Sold. 
 
Wholesale food distributor margins. 
 
The distribution options available to smaller, regional or locally based suppliers. 
Issue that may raise concerns: vertical foreclosure  
81. 
PFD currently supplies some businesses who compete with Woolworths at the 
retail level, although it does not supply Woolworths. In these circumstances, the 
merged entity could potentially harm its downstream rivals by raising the prices it 
charges for the input to those rivals.  
82. 
Woolworths and PFD have stated that they intend to keep the businesses 
separate with appropriate information sharing barriers in place. However, 
notwithstanding these intentions, some customers are concerned about possible 
foreclosure of – or higher prices for – the supply of key products, or Woolworths 
gaining a competitive advantage via access to information about its competitors’ 
purchasing decisions. Moreover, as noted above, the ACCC is assessing the 
competitive impact of the proposed acquisition on the assumption that 
Woolworths and PFD will operate as a combined entity. 
83. 
The ACCC considers that the distribution and supply of fresh seafood to 
supermarkets and food distributors is an area of concern. PFD appears to be the 
only national supplier of fresh seafood that can meet quality requirements 
specified by some customers. 


Woolworths – proposed acquisition of 65% of the shares in PFD Food Services 
 
Page 13 of 13 
84. 
To the extent that PFD has market power in this sector, Woolworths’ control of a 
supplier to its retail competitors raises the possibility of full or partial foreclosure 
via a withdrawal of supply or price increases that raise its rivals’ costs. This could 
harm competition in markets for food distribution and grocery retailing.  
85. 
However, PFD does face some constraints, in the form of alternative food 
service wholesalers. These alternatives are generally not able to supply fresh 
seafood on a national basis, although there do seem to be alternatives to PFD 
available in each state or territory. Prior to PFD’s entry into supplying fresh 
seafood in 2017, its current customers used these alternative suppliers. 
86. 
The ACCC is continuing to assess the strength of the alternative state based 
suppliers and the extent to which they would constrain Woolworths’ ability to 
exercise a full or partial foreclosure strategy post-acquisition. 
The ACCC invites comments on its concerns in relation to Woolworths as a supplier to 
rival retailers. In particular, market participants may wish to comment on the following: 
 
To what extent are there viable alternatives to PFD for the supply of food products, 
in particular, fresh seafood? Identify the alternatives and how they compare to 
PFD. 
 
The costs and time involved in switching to an alternative supplier. 
 
The possibility and likelihood of sponsorship of new wholesale food distributor. 
Identify who may be able to sponsor a new entrant, and costs and time involved in 
a potential sponsorship.  
ACCC's future steps 
87. 
As noted above, the ACCC invites submissions from market participants on each 
of the issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that 
may be relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. Submissions should 
be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au by no later than 5pm on 1 February 2021. 
88. 
The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
89. 
The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 22 April 2021. However 
the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Informal Merger Review 
Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment explaining the ACCC's 
final view may be published following the ACCC's public announcement. 
 
