ACCC WILL NOT OPPOSE GRAINCORP’S PROPOSED ACQUISITION OF CARGILL’S 
GILGANDRA GRAIN STORAGE AND HANDLING FACILITY 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission will not oppose GrainCorp Limited’s 
(GrainCorp) proposed acquisition of Cargill Australia Limited’s (Cargill) bulk grain storage 
and handling facility in Gilgandra, New South Wales. 
“The ACCC conducted extensive market inquiries with market participants, including grain 
growers, grain traders, exporters, and competing suppliers of storage and handling services 
in the Dubbo region. Growers and other market participants were not generally concerned 
about the proposed acquisition,” ACCC Chairman Rod Sims said. 
“Despite the transaction resulting in the removal of a close competitor to the existing 
GrainCorp site in Gilgandra, based on market feedback, the ACCC considered that there will 
be effective competition from other suppliers of storage and handling services in the region.”  
“On-farm grain storage is also increasing, but will not be a complete substitute for upcountry 
bulk storage and handling facilities,” Mr Sims said. 
The ACCC also considered GrainCorp’s ability and incentive to discriminate between grain 
growers, by charging more or offering poorer service to growers that have fewer alternatives 
for storage and handling. Based upon market inquiries, the ACCC considered that 
discrimination between different growers was unlikely. 
“In forming this view, the ACCC noted that GrainCorp publishes a schedule of fixed storage 
and handling fees on the east coast. In addition, GrainCorp would continue to have an 
incentive to deliver efficient services to growers, in order to maximise throughput in its 
facilities,” Mr Sims said. 
Further information is available on the ACCC's public register.  
Background 
GrainCorp is an integrated grain handling and processing business with grain supply chain 
assets predominantly on the east coast, including upcountry storage, port and terminal 
storage and handling, and trading and marketing. In Gilgandra, GrainCorp currently operates 
an upcountry bulk storage and handling facility. 
Cargill is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cargill, Incorporated, a privately-owned international 
company based in Minnesota, USA. In 2011, Cargill purchased the commodity management 
businesses of AWB Limited, including AWB’s grain storage assets. In Gilgandra, Cargill 
operates an upcountry bulk storage and handling facility, adjacent to GrainCorp’s facility at 
Gilgandra.  
Media enquiries  
ACCC Media  
1300 138 917  
MR 181/16 
6 October 2016 
