 
 
1 
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
tel: (02) 6243 1368
mergers@accc.gov.au
www.accc.gov.au
Our ref:  
IM-70566 
 
Contact officer: 
Connie Wu / Karina Geddes 
Contact phone: 
08 9325 0637/ 02 9102 4008 
25 March 2020 
Dear Interested Party 
Re:  Request for submissions: InfraBuild’s proposed acquisition of Best Bar 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
the proposed acquisition of Best Bar Pty Ltd (Best Bar) by InfraBuild Trading Pty Ltd 
(InfraBuild) (the proposed acquisition). 
InfraBuild is Australia’s only manufacturer, and a major distributor of, reinforcing steel 
products, including reinforcing bar, wire rod, and mesh. Best Bar is a major distributor of 
reinforcing bar and mesh. Further details regarding the acquisition can be found at 
Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact on competition.  In particular, we are 
seeking your views on: 
 
how closely InfraBuild and Best Bar currently compete in the distribution of 
reinforcing bar (including cut and bent bar) and reinforcing mesh to end customers 
 
the likely impact of the proposed acquisition on the prices end use customers pay 
for reinforcing bar and reinforcing mesh  
 
the likely impact of the proposed acquisition on the prices distributors pay 
manufacturers to acquire reinforcing bar, reinforcing wire rod and/or reinforcing 
mesh, and the quality of those products 
 
whether the proposed acquisition will likely give InfraBuild the ability to limit supply 
of reinforcing bar, wire rod, or reinforcing mesh to competing distributors 
 
whether imports of reinforcing steel products are readily available and can be 
economically imported by distributors and / or end users, taking into account current 
and possible future anti-dumping measures 
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  


 
2 
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
Please provide your response by no later than 5pm on 14 April 2020. Responses may be 
emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: Submission re: InfraBuild / Best Bar - 
attention Connie Wu / Karina Geddes.  
Due to the impact of COVID-19 on business operations, we understand it may be difficult 
for you to provide a written submission. If you would like to discuss this matter with us in 
lieu of providing a written submission, or if you have any questions about this matter, 
please contact Connie Wu on (08) 9325 0637, or Karina Geddes on (02) 9102 4008.  
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public 
Mergers Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We will not 
disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by 
law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or during court proceedings) or 
in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010.  Where the 
ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, the ACCC will notify you in advance 
where possible so that you may have an opportunity to be heard.  Therefore, if the 
information provided to the ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our 
Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
Tom Leuner 
General Manager 
Merger Investigations  
 
 
 


 
3 
Attachment A 
 
The acquirer – GFG Alliance Australia / InfraBuild 
InfraBuild is a company of the Liberty Steel Group, part of the GFG Alliance.  
In August 2017, the GFG Alliance acquired the main business assets of Arrium, 
being: 
 
iron ore mining assets near Whyalla, South Australia, and iron ore bulk 
handling facilities at the Whyalla port (now known as SIMEC Mining) 
 
the Whyalla steelworks (now known as Liberty Primary Steel), and 
 
the former OneSteel steel distribution, manufacturing and recycling 
businesses now known as InfraBuild. 
InfraBuild (through the InfraBuild Steel businesses) is the only manufacturer of 
reinforcing steel in Australia, including reinforcing bar and wire rod used to make 
reinforcing mesh. InfraBuild has manufacturing facilities in: 
 
Rooty Hill, NSW (where it produces steel billets and has a bar mill for 
production of reinforcing bar) 
 
Newcastle NSW (where it has a rod mill for production of reinforcing wire rod 
and another mill for production of reinforcing bar in coil) 
 
Laverton, Victoria (where it produces steel billets, and has a bar mill for 
production of reinforcing bar in coil and a rod mill for production of reinforcing 
wire rod) 
Liberty Primary Steel, which is owned by GFG Alliance, has steel manufacturing 
operations in Whyalla, SA (where it produces steel billets). 
InfraBuild distributes its reinforcing steel products nationally though other InfraBuild 
companies – primarily InfraBuild Construction Solutions and the Australian 
Reinforcing Company (ARC), as well a small portion through Midalia Steel. 
InfraBuild Construction Solutions and ARC have 57 distribution sites located as 
follows: 
 
21 in NSW and ACT 
 
13 in Victoria 
 
18 in Queensland 
 
3 in Tasmania 
 
1 in Western Australia 
 
2 in South Australia 
 
1 in Northern Territory 
InfraBuild also supplies the reinforcing steel products it manufactures to other 
distributors in Australia, including Best Bar. 
InfraBuild converts the wire rod it produces into reinforcing mesh at its mesh 
processing facilities in Brisbane, Sydney, and Melbourne. 
The target – Best Bar 
Best Bar is a major Australian reinforcing bar and mesh distributor, supplying to building 


 
4 
and construction companies. 
Best Bar has 9 distribution sites located as follows: 
 
3 in Victoria 
 
2 in New South Wales 
 
2 in Western Australia 
 
1 in South Australia 
 
1 in the Northern Territory (which will not be part of the proposed acquisition). 
 
Best Bar acquires reinforcing bar and reinforcing wire rods from InfraBuild and from 
overseas manufacturer/s.  


 
 
5 
Attachment B 
1. Please provide a brief description of your business or organisation.  
2. Please outline the reasons for your interest in the proposed acquisition, including 
any commercial relationship/s with either of InfraBuild or Best Bar. 
3. If you are a distributor of reinforcing steel products, how does your organisation 
acquire and distribute reinforcing bar, wire rod, and/or reinforcing mesh?  
a) Do you source domestically from InfraBuild, or from imports, or a 
combination? What proportion of your purchase requirements are 
generally met by imports, and who are those importers?  
b) Do you process and fabricate reinforcing bars? Do you acquire reinforcing 
mesh from other distributors, or acquire wire rods and process them into 
reinforcing mesh yourself?  
c) For reinforcing bar, what length and size of gauges do you acquire from 
InfraBuild, and/or from imports? For wire rod, what thickness do you 
acquire from InfraBuild, and/or from imports? 
d) Who are your major customers?  
e) What is the volume and value of purchases / sales? 
f) Do you have long term contracts with manufacturers and/or customers? 
g) What is the geographic reach of each of your distribution centres? 
4. If you are an end customer of reinforcing steel products, how does your 
organisation acquire those products? 
a) Do you use different distributors for different projects or within the same 
project? If so, why? 
b) Do you source from distributors only in your city or state? 
c) Do you have long term contracts with any of your suppliers? 
5. What factors influence the prices for: 
a) the wholesale supply of reinforcing bar, wire rods and/or reinforcing mesh 
to distributors; and   
b) the supply of reinforcing bar and reinforcing mesh by distributors to end 
customers in Australia?  
6. Please identify and describe other distributors of reinforcing bar or mesh, and the 
extent to which they compete with InfraBuild and/or Best Bar. Relevant factors 
may include geographic areas of supply, scale, brand recognition, product quality 
or service standards. Please provide specific examples where possible. 
7. Do end customers source reinforcing bars or mesh from a single distributor? Are 
separate distributors used for different areas of the country, and/or for different 
projects? Can products be easily purchased from new suppliers further away? If 
so, please identify transport costs and other relevant factors. 


 
6 
8. Please outline how closely InfraBuild and Best Bar currently compete in the 
distribution of reinforcing steel products. Factors you may wish to consider 
include: price, product range, quality of products and services, geographic areas 
of supply, timeliness of supply, responding to each other’s promotional activities, 
and winning and losing customers between each other. Please provide specific 
examples where possible.  
9. Could competing distributors of reinforcing bar and mesh expand supply in 
response to a combined “InfraBuild/Best Bar” attempt to increase prices by, for 
example, 10%? Please consider competitors’ excess capacities and any 
obstacles to expansion. 
10. Please identify any possible new distributor of reinforcing products in Australia. 
What entry costs would be incurred by a new entrant? Has there been successful 
new entry recently? Please provide details. 
11. The ACCC understands that InfraBuild is the only local manufacturer of 
reinforcing bar and wire rod. Could domestic steel manufacturers readily ‘switch’ 
production of other steel products to reinforcing steel products in response to a 
price increase for reinforcing steel products? 
12. Do overseas suppliers adequately offer the reinforcing bars and/or wire rod that 
distributors require? Can these products be readily imported? Are there any 
capacity or other constraints affecting the conversion of imported wire rod into 
reinforcing mesh? 
13. Please discuss the types of reinforcing steel products imported by distributors 
that are currently subject to anti-dumping measures. Please include the size of 
the duty applied to each product, the country from which the product is imported, 
and how long the anti-dumping measures have been in place. If there are 
currently no anti-dumping measures, please indicate the likelihood that measures 
may be put in place in the next two years. 
14. The ACCC understands that wire rods that have undergone drawing and other 
processing steps to become reinforcing mesh need to comply with certain 
Australian standards.  Are you able to easily source imported wire rods and 
process them into reinforcing mesh in order to comply with Australian standards? 
15. Please provide any additional information or comments, or identify other competition 
issues, that you consider relevant to the ACCC’s consideration of the proposed 
acquisition under section 50 of the Act.  
