 
 
Public Competition Assessment 
11 October 2006 
 
 
ABC Learning Centres Limited - proposed acquisition of Hutchison’s Child Care 
Services Ltd 
 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
 
Introduction 
1. 
On 8 September 2006, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission 
(ACCC) announced that it would not oppose the acquisition of Hutchison’s Child 
Care Services Ltd (Hutchison) by ABC Learning Centres Limited (ABC) after ABC 
provided a court-enforceable undertaking to the ACCC to divest seven long day care 
(LDC) centres in five regional areas, mainly in Queensland.  
2. 
The ACCC made its decision on the basis of information provided by the parties and 
information arising from its market inquiries. This Public Competition Assessment 
outlines the basis on which the ACCC has reached its decision on the proposed 
transaction, subject to confidentiality requirements. 
Public Competition Assessments  
 
3. 
To provide an enhanced level of transparency and procedural fairness in its decision 
making process, the ACCC issues a Public Competition Assessment for all 
transaction proposals where: 
• a merger is rejected;  
• a merger is subject to enforceable undertakings;  
• the merger parties seek such disclosure; or  
• a merger is approved but raises important issues that the ACCC considers should 
be made public.  
4. 
In this case, the merger is subject to enforceable undertakings.  
5. 
By issuing Public Competition Assessments, the ACCC aims to provide the market 
with a better understanding of the ACCC's analysis of various markets and the 
associated merger and competition issues. It also alerts the market to the 
circumstances where the ACCC’s assessment of the competition conditions in 
particular markets is changing, or likely to change, because of developments. 
6. 
Each Public Competition Assessment is specific to the particular transaction under 
review by the ACCC. While some transaction proposals may involve the same or 
related markets, it should not be assumed that the analysis and decision outlined in 
 
1


one Public Competition Assessment will be conclusive of the ACCC’s view in 
respect of other transaction proposals, as each matter will be considered on its own 
merits.  
7. 
Many of the ACCC’s decisions will involve consideration of both non-confidential 
and confidential information provided by the merger parties and market participants. 
In order to maintain the confidentiality of particular information, Public 
Competition Assessments do not contain any confidential information or identify 
the sources of such information. While the ACCC aims to provide an appropriately 
detailed explanation of the basis for the ACCC decision, maintaining confidentiality 
will be the ACCC's paramount concern.  
The Parties 
 
ABC Learning Centres Limited (the acquirer) 
 
8. 
ABC is listed on the Australian Stock Exchange and it is the largest listed global 
provider of child care services. Prior to the acquisition, ABC owned over 755 LDC 
centres in Australia. 
Hutchison’s Child Care Services Ltd (the target) 
 
9. 
Hutchison is also listed on the Australian Stock Exchange. Prior to the acquisition it 
owned and managed 86 LDC centres in Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, 
South Australia and Tasmania.  
Proposed transaction 
 
10. 
On 7 July 2006, ABC publicly announced that it proposed to acquire Hutchison. The 
ACCC commenced an assessment of the proposed acquisition under its Merger 
Review Process Guidelines on the same day. 
Timing 
 
7 July 2006 
ABC publicly announced its proposal to acquire Hutchison.  
12 July 2006 
ACCC commenced market inquiries. 
26 July 2006 
Closing date for submissions. 
25 August 2006 
ACCC invited public comments on a draft undertaking 
offered by ABC. 
1 September 2006 
Market inquiries on ABC’s proposed undertaking closed. 
8 September 2006 
ACCC accepted a court-enforceable undertaking from ABC 
and announced that it would not oppose the acquisition. 
 
Market inquiries 
 
11. 
The ACCC received submissions from competitors, industry associations, 
government agencies and other interested parties.  
 
2


Market definition 
 
Product market 
 
12. 
There are about 5000 LDC centres in Australia. These centres are located 
throughout Australia, in both major urban cities and regional towns.  
13. 
Market inquiries confirmed that family day care (FDC), pre-schools and 
kindergartens, after school care and occasional care are not close substitutes for 
centre-based LDC services. This finding is consistent with the results from market 
inquiries conducted by the ACCC in relation to ABC’s acquisitions of Kids Campus 
Limited in May 2006 (Kids Campus acquisition) and Peppercorn Management 
Group Limited and Child Care Centres of Australia in December 2004 (Peppercorn 
acquisition). 
14. 
In particular, market inquiries in the present matter indicated that there were clear 
qualitative differences between LDC and FDC services, pre-schools and 
kindergartens, after school care and occasional care.    
15. 
The main qualitative differences between LDC and other services raised during 
market inquiries were as follows: 
• whereas LDC centres are required to recruit qualified staff (that is, staff with 
specific formal child care qualifications), FDC schemes are not, although FDC 
staff are required to undergo induction programmes and satisfy medical and 
police checks among other things. Also, LDC centres operate relatively bigger 
centres with more places than that provided by FDC schemes (which operate 
from carers’ homes). In addition, FDC schemes provide a home-like 
environment for children in the sense that children are involved in household 
routines (for example, shopping). 
 
• pre-schools and kindergartens only provide services during school terms for a 
limited number of hours per week spread over a number of sessions;  
 
• after school care does not cater for children below school age; and 
 
• occasional care does not offer parents the certainty and routine that LDC centres 
provide. 
 
16. 
Market inquiries indicated that parents were unlikely to switch to one of these 
alternative services in response to a small but significant price increase for LDC 
services. Consequently, the ACCC concluded that the relevant product market was 
the supply of centre-based LDC services. 
 
Geographic market 
 
17. 
Market inquiries confirmed that generally parents prefer LDC services which are 
located either close to home, close to work or somewhere convenient in-between. 
This finding is consistent with the market inquiry results in relation to the Kids 
Campus and Peppercorn acquisitions. 
 
3


18. 
Consequently, a price increase by a centre located near where parents live would be 
likely to be constrained by other centres also located near where parents live, as well 
as centres located near where parents work or somewhere convenient in-between. 
19. 
This suggests that LDC markets are relatively local in nature. However, it is difficult 
to precisely define geographic markets in metropolitan areas as parents living in one 
part of a city may work in that area or in a variety of locations in the city.  
20. 
Even in regional areas, where geographic markets are generally likely to comprise 
individual towns and their immediate surrounds, difficulties regarding the definition 
of precise geographic markets might arise where other towns (or a city) are located 
nearby.   
21. 
Given the difficulties with defining the geographic dimension of LDC markets, the 
ACCC initially relied on geographic markets comprising an area within 
approximately 10 kilometres of the LDC centres being acquired by ABC (in specific 
cases, the market might be narrower or wider because of, among other factors, local 
geography and road and rail systems). 
22. 
Where competition concerns did not arise in this narrowly-defined market, the 
ACCC considered it unlikely that they would arise if a broader geographic market 
was adopted. 
Competition assessment 
 
23. 
Initially, the ACCC examined the change in market concentration (and particularly 
ABC’s post-merger share by number of places) in each local LDC market (as 
defined in paragraph 21) post-merger.   
24. 
In a substantial number of local markets, market concentration did not change at all, 
or did not change significantly. No competition concerns arose in these markets. 
25. 
In other markets, ABC’s market share rose reasonably significantly post-merger.  
However, the ACCC concluded that in some of these markets, the proposed merger 
would not be likely to substantially lessen competition. In reaching this decision, the 
following considerations were relevant: 
• whether post-merger, there would exist a significant number of competitive 
centres with vacant places;  
• whether centres owned by competitors had recently entered the relevant markets;  
• whether many of the local markets had a significant and growing number of 
below-school-age children. Growing markets are more likely to attract new entry, 
meaning current market shares may not be sustained; 
• the existence of a significant number of development sites owned by competitors 
- this strengthened the potential for new entry in the near future; and 
• the likelihood that, particularly in metropolitan areas, a proportion of parents 
would consider childcare centres outside the local market to be substitutes. 
 
4


26. 
However in certain regional markets, after taking into account the considerations 
outlined above, the ACCC concluded that the proposed acquisition would still have 
been likely to substantially lessen competition. In particular, in these markets: 
• ABC would have had substantial market share post-merger; and 
• the available evidence did not indicate that new entry was likely in the 
foreseeable future. Market inquiries in some of the relevant areas also raised 
concerns about the ability of new entrants to obtain sufficient qualified staff to 
meet customer demand and regulatory requirements. 
 
Section 87B undertaking  
 
27. 
On 8 September 2006, the ACCC accepted a court-enforceable undertaking offered 
by ABC under section 87B of the Trade Practices Act 1974.  This undertaking 
requires ABC to divest seven LDC centres in five regional markets where the 
ACCC considers that post-acquisition, a substantial lessening of competition is 
likely to occur. The ACCC is satisfied that these divestitures will address its 
competition concerns. 
28. 
The non-confidential version of the undertaking is at Attachment A. The identity of 
the centres to be divested and the timeframe for the divestitures are confidential.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5


ATTACHMENT - A
