 
Public Competition Assessment 
10 December 2008 
Commonwealth Bank of Australia - proposed acquisition of 
BankWest and St Andrew’s Australia 
A  Introduction 
1. 
On 10 December 2008, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission 
(ACCC) announced its decision not to oppose the proposed acquisition of Bank 
of Western Australia Ltd and St Andrew’s Australia Pty Ltd by Commonwealth 
Bank of Australia (proposed acquisition). The ACCC was of the view that the 
proposed acquisition would not be likely to have the effect of substantially 
lessening competition in any relevant market, in contravention of section 50 of 
the Trade Practices Act 1974 (the Act). 
2. 
The ACCC formed its view on the proposed acquisition on the basis of the 
information provided by the merger parties and information arising from its 
market inquiries. This Public Competition Assessment outlines the basis on 
which the ACCC has reached its decision on the proposed acquisition, subject to 
confidentiality considerations. 
B 
Public competition assessment 
3. 
To provide an enhanced level of transparency and procedural fairness in its 
decision making process, the ACCC issues a Public Competition Assessment for 
all transaction proposals where: 
• a merger is opposed; 
• a merger is subject to enforceable undertakings; 
• the merger parties seek such disclosure; or 
• a merger is not opposed but raises important issues that the ACCC considers 
should be made public. 
4. 
This Public Competition Assessment has been issued because the proposed 
acquisition is considered to raise issues of interest to the public. 


Commonwealth Bank - proposed acquisition of BankWest and St Andrew’s Australia 
-2- 
5. 
By issuing Public Competition Assessments, the ACCC aims to provide the 
public with a better understanding of the ACCC’s analysis of various markets and 
the associated merger and competition issues. It also alerts the market to the 
circumstances where the ACCC’s assessment of the competition conditions in 
particular markets is changing, or likely to change, because of developments.  
6. 
Each Public Competition Assessment is specific to the particular transaction 
under review by the ACCC. While some transaction proposals may involve the 
same or related markets, it should not be assumed that the analysis and decision 
outlined in one Public Competition Assessment will be conclusive of the ACCC’s 
view in respect of other transaction proposals, as each matter will be considered 
on its own merits.  
7. 
Many of the ACCC’s decisions will involve consideration of both 
non-confidential and confidential information provided by the merger parties and 
market participants. In order to maintain the confidentiality of particular 
information, Public Competition Assessments do not contain any confidential 
information or its sources. While the ACCC aims to provide an appropriately 
detailed explanation of the basis for the ACCC decision, where this is not 
possible, maintaining confidentiality will be the ACCC’s paramount concern, and 
accordingly a Public Competition Assessment may not definitively explain all 
issues and the ACCC’s analysis of such issues. 
C 
The parties 
The acquirer – Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) 
8. 
CBA is the largest retail bank in Australia by market capitalisation, valued at 
approximately $42 billion. CBA’s principal business activities include:  
• personal banking: transaction, saving/term products, home loans, personal 
loans, credit cards and hybrid personal loans; 
• business banking: small to medium enterprise (SME) banking services, 
agribusiness, lending and deposit products, equipment finance and merchant 
acquiring services; 
• corporate and institutional banking: includes the provision of a range of 
financial services to corporate and institutional customers; 
• wealth management: through its Colonial First State and First Choice 
brands, the provision of funds management;  
• insurance: through its CommInsure brand, the provision of a range of 
insurance products; and 
• stockbroking: through its CommSec brand, the provision of online-discount 
stockbroking services. 
9. 
CBA operates the largest branch and ATM network throughout Australia.  


Commonwealth Bank - proposed acquisition of BankWest and St Andrew’s Australia 
-3- 
The target – Bank of Western Australia Ltd (BankWest)  
10. 
BankWest is an Australian retail bank primarily based in Western Australia. 
Since 2003, BankWest has been a wholly-owned subsidiary of HBOS Australia, 
which is wholly owned by HBOS plc (HBOS). It is one of HBOS Australia’s 
four businesses. 
11. 
BankWest’s parent company, HBOS, is a major UK-based bank providing retail, 
business and corporate banking, insurance and investment services. 
12. 
BankWest’s principal business activities include: 
• personal banking: transaction accounts, saving/term products, credit cards, 
home loans and personal loans; and 
• business and corporate banking: SME banking services, agribusiness, and 
corporate banking. 
13. 
BankWest operates a large branch and ATM network in Western Australia and 
has recently undertaken significant branch and ATM expansion in New South 
Wales, Victoria and Queensland. 
The target - St Andrew’s Australia Pty Ltd (St Andrew’s) 
14. 
St Andrew’s is a specialist provider of wealth management and insurance 
products. St Andrew’s began operations in Australia in 1998 and is located in 
Western Australia, New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland. St Andrew’s also 
distributes wealth management and insurance products through financial 
advisors, BankWest branches, telemarketing and online. 
15. 
St Andrew’s has more than $2 billion in funds under management. 
D 
Industry background 
16. 
For general industry background, the ACCC refers readers to the Public 
Competition Assessment released in relation to its 13 August 2008 decision not to 
oppose the acquisition of St George Bank Limited by Westpac Banking 
Corporation. This document is available on the ACCC’s website at 
www.accc.gov.au/publiccompetitionassessments. 
17. 
Other recent industry developments relevant to this assessment are discussed 
briefly below. 
Credit crunch 
18. 
Since July 2007, the credit crunch has had an impact on the competitive dynamic 
in banking markets. With the virtual closure of asset securitisation markets and 
the increased cost of wholesale funds since late 2007, many non-bank lenders 
who were reliant on wholesale markets for their funding have had to exit the 
Australian market.  


Commonwealth Bank - proposed acquisition of BankWest and St Andrew’s Australia 
-4- 
19. 
Other market players, including smaller authorised deposit-taking institutions 
(ADIs) with low deposit bases, have had to withdraw from lending in some areas 
or to some customers.  
Australian Government Guarantees 
20. 
In response to the credit crunch, the Australian Government introduced two 
guarantees – (1) a guarantee on retail deposits; and (2) a wholesale funding 
guarantee for the debt issues of ADIs.  
21. 
The retail deposit guarantee was announced and came into effect on 12 October 
2008. At the time of the announcement, the guarantee was not capped and was set 
to apply to all retail bank deposits. It was later clarified by the Australian 
Government that the guarantee would apply to all ADIs, including foreign banks 
with operations in Australia.  
22. 
In addition, after following advice from the RBA, APRA, Treasury and ASIC, the 
Australian Government introduced a cap on the guarantee of $1 million. 
Depositors with amounts greater than $1 million can pay a fee to access the 
guarantee. 
23. 
The guarantee on retail deposits operates for three years and is available for 
deposits with ADIs which are regulated by APRA. The Australian Government 
has also announced that other institutions can apply for ADI status so that their 
depositors can access the guarantee, if they are willing to meet the associated 
prudential requirements. 
24. 
The wholesale funding guarantee, which came into effect on 28 November 2008,  
relates to the issuing of senior unsecured debt instruments — including short-
term liabilities (e.g. bank bills and certificates of deposit) and long-term liabilities 
(e.g. bonds and notes). The guarantee applies to eligible ADIs that register for the 
scheme. However, for foreign bank branches, such as BankWest, the guarantee 
only applies in respect of their short term wholesale funding raised from 
Australian residents with maturities up to the end of 2009. 
E 
Background to the proposed acquisition  
25. 
On 8 October 2008, CBA announced its proposal to acquire BankWest and St 
Andrew’s from HBOS. At the time of announcement, HBOS was experiencing 
considerable funding pressures despite its announced sale to Lloyds TSB Group 
plc (Lloyds) (see below). HBOS stated that the transaction would result in an 
immediate and substantial funding benefit. 
26. 
CBA’s offer for the BankWest business is low in the context of the price to book 
ratios of other Australian banking acquisitions (figure 1).  


Commonwealth Bank - proposed acquisition of BankWest and St Andrew’s Australia 
-5- 
Figure 1 
Price-to-book values for Australian banking acquisitions 
 
Source: CBA Investor Pack, 8 October 2008. 
 
Proposed acquisition of HBOS by Lloyds  
27. 
Lloyds, a leading UK-based bank, announced a proposal to acquire HBOS in mid 
September 2008. The sale was negotiated in the context of the sharp worsening of 
global financial markets, when the position of HBOS became increasingly 
vulnerable in terms of share price and funding.  
28. 
On 19 November 2008, Lloyds’ shareholders voted in favour of the proposed 
acquisition. HBOS’ shareholders will vote on 12 December 2008. If granted 
shareholder approval, the acquisition is likely to complete in January 2009. As 
part of a package of measures introduced by the UK Government to assist 
financial institutions, the UK Government will acquire a 40% stake of the merged 
firm. 
F 
Timing 
29. 
The following table outlines the timeline of key events in this matter. 
Date 
Event 
20 Oct 2008 
ACCC commenced its review under the Merger Review Process Guidelines. 
Market inquiries commenced. 
22 Oct 2008 
ACCC requested further information from Commonwealth Bank of 
Australia. ACCC timeline suspended. 
10 Nov 2008 
Closing date for submissions from interested parties. 
11 Nov 2008 
ACCC received further information from Commonwealth Bank of Australia. 
ACCC timeline recommenced. 
10 Dec 2008 
Announcement of ACCC’s decision. 


Commonwealth Bank - proposed acquisition of BankWest and St Andrew’s Australia 
-6- 
G 
Market inquiries 
30. 
The ACCC conducted extensive market inquiries in relation to the proposed 
acquisition. A range of interested parties provided responses including 
competitors, industry and consumer associations, mortgage brokers and interested 
third parties.  
31. 
The ACCC sent an ‘open letter’ to banking customers in Western Australia as 
part of its inquiry process welcoming customers’ views on the proposed 
acquisition. The focus of the letter was on whether BankWest was considered to 
be a particularly vigorous competitor in terms of price and/or service. Over 50 
responses from personal banking customers were received. 
32. 
The ACCC also held discussions and requested information from a range of 
parties regarding the likely future of BankWest if the acquisition did not proceed. 
These included the merger parties, HBOS and Lloyds, Australian regulators and 
other potential buyers of the BankWest business.  
H 
The ACCC’s merger assessment process – the ‘with and 
without’ test 
33. 
Section 50 of the Act prohibits an acquisition if it would be likely to have the 
effect of substantially lessening competition in a market.  
34. 
In assessing a merger pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC must consider 
the effects of the transaction by comparing the likely future state of competition if 
the transaction proceeds (the “with” or “factual” position) to the likely future 
state of competition if the transaction does not proceed (the “without” or 
“counterfactual” position).  
35. 
This with or without test is crucial to the ACCC’s assessment of this matter. The 
ACCC has received compelling evidence to suggest that the competitive 
constraint provided by BankWest without the transaction is likely to be different 
from the constraint they previously provided. This is explored in detail in section 
J below.  
I 
Market definition 
36. 
The ACCC considered a number of relevant markets under each of the key 
product areas where the activities of the parties overlapped, in particular, personal 
banking, business banking, wealth management and insurance.  
Retail (personal and business) banking 
37. 
The market definitions adopted by the ACCC for the purposes of assessing this 
matter are summarised in table 1.  


Commonwealth Bank - proposed acquisition of BankWest and St Andrew’s Australia 
-7- 
Table 1 
Retail banking markets 
Product dimension 
Geographic 
dimension 
Functional characteristics 
Personal banking markets 
Transaction accounts 
Local but price and 
service competition is 
predominantly national 
Provide day-to-day deposit and payment functionality in 
the form of cheque books, debit cards, BPay, internet 
and phone banking.  
Saving/term products 
National 
Savings instrument with a focus on growth in the capital 
value of the deposited funds. 
Credit cards 
National 
Short-term unsecured lending product for individual 
consumers.  
Home loans 
National  
Mortgage lending to individuals for the purpose of 
acquiring residential property. 
Personal loans 
National 
Lending to individuals for the purpose of purchasing 
large personal consumption items. 
Business banking markets 
SME banking 
Local but price and 
service competition is 
predominantly national 
A ‘cluster’ of banking products encompassing credit 
products, transaction/cash facilities, merchant acquiring 
services and banking advice.  
Agribusiness banking 
Local but price and 
service competition is 
predominantly national 
A ‘cluster’ of banking products for agricultural 
businesses with a central element being specialised 
lending products including very long-term credit 
instruments.  
 
38. 
The ACCC has considered the geographic dimension of competition for each of 
the retail banking markets based on: 
• the importance of a physical presence (branch and ATM networks) in 
consumer choice of provider; and 
• the geographic scope of decision making of financial institutions in terms of 
their product range, prices and service levels.  
39. 
The ACCC considers that there are several banking products for which a physical 
presence is a key determinant of consumer choice — namely transaction 
accounts, SME and agribusiness banking. Market inquiries suggested that 
consumers take account of the physical presence of providers — the presence of a 
branch in a convenient location and the extent of the ATM network — in 
choosing between financial institutions for these products. This was also 
supported by market survey data provided to the ACCC in its consideration of 
this matter and in its assessment of the Westpac-St George merger. 
40. 
In contrast, the evidence provided to the ACCC suggests that a physical presence 
is not an important determinant of consumer choice for other retail banking 
products — namely, saving/term products, credit cards, home loans and personal 
loans. 


Commonwealth Bank - proposed acquisition of BankWest and St Andrew’s Australia 
-8- 
41. 
The ACCC notes there is strong evidence to suggest that price competition in 
retail banking product markets is almost always national. Market inquiries 
indicated that most financial institutions manufacture, distribute, market and price 
products on a national basis. The merger parties provided comprehensive 
information about their internal processes for developing products and setting 
prices that provided further support for this. 
42. 
However, in this matter CBA provided some limited examples of varying prices 
at a state level.  
43. 
Other aspects of the merger parties’ service provision, including staffing levels, 
marketing and branch opening hours, are also centrally determined. In the case of 
staffing levels, these are set according to a formula based on historic levels of 
customer demand. Competition for these aspects of the service offering is 
therefore also national.  
44. 
A more detailed discussion around the relevant product and geographic 
dimensions of these markets can been found in the ACCC’s Public Competition 
Assessment released in relation to its decision not to oppose the acquisition of St 
George Bank Limited by Westpac Banking Corporation. 
Wealth management and insurance 
45. 
The ACCC did not consider it necessary to reach a definitive view on the 
appropriate market definition for wealth management and insurance products 
because it was considered that the proposed acquisition was not likely to raise 
competition concerns regardless of the market definition adopted. 
J 
Competition analysis 
Impact of the proposed acquisition on national retail banking markets  
 
46. 
It was found that the proposed acquisition would result in the aggregation of the 
retail banking assets of BankWest and CBA in several national retail banking 
markets — saving/term products, home loans, credit cards and personal loans.  
47. 
Table 2 illustrates that BankWest holds a modest share in each of the relevant 
markets. 
Table 2  
National market shares (%)1 
  
Deposit/term 
products 
Home loans 
Personal loans 
Credit cards 
CBA 
26.9 
18.8 
11.6 
16.9 
Bank West 
3.9 
2.8 
3.9 
2.0 
Merged entity 
30.8 
21.6 
15.5 
18.9 
                                               
1 The market share figures are derived from a number of sources. The ACCC considers these figures to 
be the best estimates available for the purposes of this assessment. 
 


Commonwealth Bank - proposed acquisition of BankWest and St Andrew’s Australia 
-9- 
48. 
However, a number of parties put to the ACCC, that despite BankWest’s 
relatively small presence in these markets, it has played an important role in 
driving national price competition and innovation. The ACCC has therefore 
investigated BankWest’s role as a vigorous and effective competitor in national 
retail banking markets.  
Has BankWest been a vigorous and effective competitor? 
49. 
Many market participants commented on BankWest’s role as a vigorous and 
effective competitor in retail banking markets. In 2006, BankWest announced a 
plan to open 160 branches in the eastern states of Australia over a period of 4 
years. BankWest also began an aggressive roll out of ATMs outside of Western 
Australia, including an agreement to supply and operate ATMs in 7-11 stores.  
50. 
Consistent with its strategy of building a national presence, BankWest was 
targeting growth in its market share across retail banking products. For certain 
banking products considered to be ‘key acquisition priorities’, BankWest aimed 
to offer market leading prices to attract new customers. The ACCC understands 
that BankWest has offered the market leading prices for transaction accounts 
(discussed separately below), saving/term products and home loans for most of 
this year.  
51. 
BankWest’s product offering has also been innovative — for example, its 
‘RateTracker’ home loan offers an interest rate set at 1% less than the average of 
the standard variable rates of the big four banks for the first two years. Similarly, 
with its service offering, BankWest pioneered open plan layouts for its branches 
with ‘mobile service pods’ rather than teller bays and zones for kids including 
toys and DVDs. BankWest has also adopted extended trading hours, including 
Thursday night and weekend trading, at many of its branches. 
52. 
In recognition of both its aggressive pricing and innovative product offerings, 
BankWest has been well recognised in industry awards particularly for its home 
loan and savings products. BankWest has also been successful in growing its 
presence in these markets, attracting a share of new and switching customers 
considerably above its existing market share.  
53. 
The ACCC has also received evidence of competitors responding directly to 
BankWest’s pricing decisions and service model.  
54. 
On the basis of BankWest’s pricing behaviour, service model and east coast 
expansion strategy, the ACCC considers that BankWest has been a vigorous and 
effective competitor, particularly in the saving/term products and home loan 
markets.  
55. 
However, as set out in section H, the ACCC must consider the competitive 
effects of the transaction by comparing the likely future state of competition if the 
transaction proceeds to the counterfactual — the likely future state of competition 
if the transaction does not proceed. 


Commonwealth Bank - proposed acquisition of BankWest and St Andrew’s Australia 
-10- 
56. 
Despite the role BankWest has previously played in driving retail banking 
competition, the ACCC has received compelling evidence from a range of parties 
to suggest that BankWest will not be in a position to continue to compete 
aggressively or act as a price leader under the counterfactual.  
Will BankWest continue to compete aggressively in the absence of the acquisition? 
57. 
The ACCC’s view on the counterfactual was informed by discussions with a 
range of parties, including APRA and the RBA; BankWest and HBOS Australia; 
HBOS and Lloyds, as well as other parties initially approached to acquire the 
HBOS Australia assets. 
58. 
Based on the information from these sources, the ACCC has formed the view that 
the relevant counterfactual in this case is that HBOS/Lloyds would continue to 
operate the BankWest business in the short to medium term. However, it was 
found that BankWest’s operating model would change considerably under this 
scenario. 
59. 
The financial situation and risk appetite of HBOS (or a merged Lloyds/HBOS 
with 40% UK Government ownership) is such that these companies would no 
longer continue to grow the BankWest business. Not only would this likely see a 
cessation of the bank’s east coast expansion plan, but also the aggressive pricing 
targeted at growing market share.  
60. 
HBOS Australia and BankWest provided submissions and internal documents 
that support this view of the bank’s likely strategy should it continue to be owned 
by HBOS. The RBA and APRA also indicated that they did not consider that 
BankWest would be in a position to provide strong and sustainable competition 
going forward.  
61. 
The ACCC has investigated the possibility that another buyer might acquire the 
BankWest assets. Any buyer would need to be in a position not only to raise the 
purchase price but to repay the approximately than $16 billion in intra-group 
loans from HBOS.   
62. 
Following inquiries with financial regulators, BankWest’s parent company, 
Australian and overseas banks (including all of those initially approached by 
HBOS advisors in relation to the sale) and other consortia who may have had an 
interest in acquiring BankWest, the ACCC concluded that an alternative buyer for 
BankWest is unlikely in the current funding environment. 
63. 
However, even if another buyer were to acquire BankWest, the ACCC took the 
view that it is not clear that an alternative buyer would have continued to pursue 
the aggressive growth strategy adopted by HBOS. The rapid expansion being 
pursued by HBOS with the BankWest business (160 branches over 4 years), was 
unprecedented in Australian banking.  


Commonwealth Bank - proposed acquisition of BankWest and St Andrew’s Australia 
-11- 
64. 
Information provided by HBOS Australia suggested that the BankWest growth 
strategy was a function of the parent’s business model and its search for ongoing 
expansion opportunities. It was able to underwrite this growth because: 
• the Australian operations are only a small part of its total business 
(approximately 5%); and 
• it was able to offer BankWest access to low cost wholesale funding through its 
AA credit rating. 
65. 
The ACCC considered that it is unlikely that any new buyer would be willing and 
able to offer to underwrite such growth going forward, particularly in the absence 
of a significant improvement in the global funding environment. 
66. 
Given a counterfactual under which BankWest will continue to operate as an 
independent player but will no longer be the competitive force it once was, the 
ACCC considered the proposed acquisition was unlikely to substantially lessen 
competition in the relevant national retail banking markets (including home loans 
and saving/term products). Given BankWest’s relatively modest market share in 
these markets, and the number of other significant competitors, the ACCC found 
that it was unlikely that the acquisition of such a small competitor, no longer 
offering market leading prices, would substantially lessen competition.  
67. 
The ACCC notes that its views regarding the counterfactual are specific to the 
facts of this particular acquisition. The financial situation of BankWest’s UK 
parent, and the associated changes it is likely to make to BankWest’s operating 
model in the absence of the transaction, have strongly informed the ACCC’s 
conclusions.  
68. 
The ACCC will closely analyse the competition implications of any further 
proposed acquisitions of regional banks.  
Impact of the proposed acquisition on other retail banking markets 
Transaction accounts 
69. 
As noted in section I, transaction account markets were considered as local 
because a physical (branch and/or ATM) presence is still an important 
determinant of consumer choice of provider.  
70. 
However, it was found that most of the key aspects of the service provision, 
including product manufacture, price, opening hours and staffing levels, are 
determined centrally by banks in response to national (or at the narrowest, state) 
rather than local competitive conditions.  
71. 
The key aspect of local competition relates to the availability of a branch 
presence. Therefore the ACCC considered the effect of the acquisition in each 
local market in terms of consumer choice, as well as whether the acquisition 
would impact on price and service at a national or state-wide level, which would 
have a flow on effect to every local market in which CBA and/or BankWest is a 
competitor. 


Commonwealth Bank - proposed acquisition of BankWest and St Andrew’s Australia 
-12- 
Likely effects on the national elements of decision making for transaction accounts 
72. 
BankWest prices its transaction accounts nationally. BankWest’s ‘Hero’ and 
‘Zero’ products have been the national price leaders in this market over the last 
year. However, as outlined at paragraph 57 above, under the counterfactual 
BankWest is unlikely to continue to offer market leading products because HBOS 
will not be in a position to continue to finance its expansion strategy. 
73. 
BankWest is a relatively small player in terms of its national presence, with a 
3.2% share of deposits. Therefore, the ACCC found that the proposed acquisition 
by CBA was unlikely to have a significant effect on banks national prices or 
service levels for transaction accounts compared to the counterfactual.   
Potential for Western Australia-specific price increases 
74. 
As noted at paragraph 41, CBA has submitted some examples to the ACCC of 
revisions to product prices on a state basis, including waiving transaction account 
fees for their Western Australian consumers (if their account is linked to a CBA 
savings account). CBA acknowledged this was in response to the competitive 
threat posed by BankWest.  
75. 
Given this demonstrated willingness to vary the price for this product at a state 
level, the ACCC therefore explored the possibility that the proposed acquisition 
may result in: 
• CBA winding back this Western Australia-specific discount; and 
• CBA increasing transaction account prices in Western Australia above 
national prices.  
76. 
The proposed acquisition will see the aggregation of the two largest providers of 
transaction accounts in Western Australia — CBA with 23% (by value of 
deposits) and BankWest with 24%. The only other significant competitors are the 
other ‘big four’ banks — ANZ with 14%, NAB with 11% and Westpac/St George 
15% (table 2). 
77. 
By share of branches, the aggregation is less significant with the merged entity 
representing 27% Western Australian branches post-acquisition, with Westpac/St 
George, ANZ and NAB with 15%, 15% and 10% respectively (table 3). 


Commonwealth Bank - proposed acquisition of BankWest and St Andrew’s Australia 
-13- 
Table 3  
Transaction accounts – Western Australia (%)2 
 
Western Australia 
 
Deposits 
Branches 
ATMs 
CBA 
22.5 
11.9 
19.7 
Bank West 
23.5 
13.5 
18.5 
Merged entity 
46.0 
25.4 
38.1 
ANZ 
14.3 
13.2 
22.6 
NAB 
11.9 
11.3 
10.3 
WBC / St George 
15.1 
18.1 
16.7 
Bendigo / Adelaide 
2.6 
6.0 
3.1 
Elders 
< 1 
15.6 
- 
Rabobank 
< 1 
1.4 
- 
Other institutions 
~ 10.0 
9.0 
9.1 
TOTAL 
100.0 
100.0 
100.0 
 
78. 
While the discount offered by CBA for its Western Australian transaction 
account customers is likely to be removed, the ACCC considered this would 
occur even in the absence of the transaction. As discussed above, under the 
counterfactual, BankWest is unlikely to continue to act as a price leader in this 
market and therefore CBA’s competitive response would also be wound back.  
79. 
The ACCC considered whether CBA would be likely to increase prices in 
Western Australia above the national price. Despite what will be a more 
concentrated market in Western Australia than in other states post-acquisition, 
three significant competitors will remain for transaction accounts that would be 
likely to constrain CBA’s ability and incentive to significantly and sustainably 
increase prices.  
80. 
In particular, the ACCC noted that both ANZ and Westpac have a branch 
network that is as comprehensive as those of the two merger parties.  
81. 
Further, the ACCC noted CBA is currently the dominant provider of transaction 
accounts in Tasmania (38% of deposits, nearest competitor 13%) and Victoria 
(33% of deposits, nearest competitor 16%) but it has never introduced differential 
fees and charges in these states.  
82. 
The ACCC considered that the reputational effects from charging higher prices in 
one state may be a strong disincentive from doing so.  
83. 
The ACCC did not consider that the aggregation arising from the proposed 
acquisition was likely to be sufficient to give CBA the ability and incentive to 
institute a significant and sustainable increase in its in price for its Western 
Australian transaction account customers. 
                                               
2 The market share figures are derived from a number of sources. The ACCC considers these figures to 
be the best estimates available for the purposes of this assessment. 
 


Commonwealth Bank - proposed acquisition of BankWest and St Andrew’s Australia 
-14- 
Local markets - likely impact of the acquisition on consumer choice  
84. 
With no variation in either the products, prices or key service dimensions 
(staffing levels and opening hours) occurring at a local level, the key dimension 
of local competition is the existence of a physical (branch and ATM) presence. 
85. 
Banking industry market research obtained by the ACCC indicates that a 
common reason for switching transaction account providers is customer 
dissatisfaction with an existing account provider. Therefore, the availability of an 
alternative provider in a given local market is important for consumer welfare.  
86. 
The ACCC has explored the impact of the acquisition on consumer choice based 
on the following local markets for transaction accounts: 
• (at its widest) a metropolitan Perth transaction account market; and 
• various local transaction account markets in regional and remote areas of 
Western Australia. 
87. 
Minimal aggregation arises in local markets outside of Western Australia   
88. 
The ACCC considered that on a Perth metropolitan-wide basis, consumers will 
retain a number of choices after the acquisition, including ANZ and Westpac both 
with a significant branch and ATM presence, and to a lesser extent, NAB and 
Bendigo. Even on an individual suburb level, in nearly every suburb where both 
BankWest and CBA have branches, each of the other big four banks also have 
branches. There is only one suburb, Kwinana, where no alternative competitor 
with a branch presence will remain. However, the ACCC notes that both ANZ 
and NAB have an ATM presence in Kwinana. In Rockingham, 9 kms (or a 15 
minute drive) away, each of ANZ, NAB, Westpac and Bendigo has a branch and 
ATM presence. 
89. 
In regional areas, in each of the towns where there is aggregation arising from the 
transaction, there is at least one other major financial institution with a branch 
and ATM presence.  
SME and agribusiness markets 
90. 
As for transaction account markets, the ACCC considered whether the acquisition 
may manifest in concerns for SME or agribusiness banking at either a national, 
state or local level. 
91. 
The ACCC considered that concerns were unlikely to arise in terms of the 
national prices or service levels because BankWest has a relatively small share of 
SME and agribusiness customers on a national basis (2.6% and 3.3%, 
respectively).  
92. 
In Western Australia, the merged entity will have around 27% by share of loans 
for business and agribusiness banking. Westpac, ANZ, NAB, Rabobank, and in 
the case of agribusiness banking, Elders, will all remain as significant 
competitors.  


Commonwealth Bank - proposed acquisition of BankWest and St Andrew’s Australia 
-15- 
93. 
In each local market considered by the ACCC where merger parties overlap in 
terms of a business or agribusiness presence, a number of competitors offering 
specialised business banking services will remain post-acquisition. 
Impact of the proposed acquisition on wealth management and insurance markets  
 
94. 
CBA provides wealth management services under its CommSec, Colonial First 
State and First Choice brands. St Andrew’s is a relatively small specialist 
provider of wealth management services. 
95. 
The operations of CBA and St Andrew’s in relation to the supply of investment, 
superannuation and retirement products, and the provision of financial advice. 
The ACCC found that St Andrew’s has a very small presence in each of the 
wealth management markets for which it overlaps with CBA, and accordingly 
took the view that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to raise competition 
concerns. 
K 
Conclusion 
96. 
The ACCC considers that BankWest has been a particularly vigorous and 
effective competitor in retail banking markets nationally, especially for 
transaction accounts, home loans and saving products. However, under the 
counterfactual it will not continue with its east coast expansion or continue to act 
as the aggressive competitor it was previously.  
97. 
In the absence of the global financial crisis, and the funding difficulties faced by 
BankWest’s parent company, the ACCC’s conclusion may have been different. 
However, with BankWest no longer capable of competing as aggressively, the 
ACCC found that it is unlikely that the removal of BankWest as an independent 
competitor would result in a substantial lessening of competition, relative to the 
counterfactual. 
98. 
In Western Australia, the proposed acquisition will significantly increase CBA’s 
market share, particularly for transaction accounts, but a number of other 
significant competitors remain. It is likely that the key aspects of the transaction 
account offer (product manufacture, price, staffing levels and opening hours) will 
continue to be determined nationally and therefore must reflect national rather 
than state or local competitive conditions. 
99. 
While the acquisition will result in less consumer or business choice in the local 
markets where the branch presence of the two banks overlaps, in almost every 
local area there remains several other competitors with a physical presence in the 
same suburb, or at least in a major suburb nearby.  
100. On the basis of the factors set out above, the ACCC formed the view that the 
proposed acquisition would be unlikely to result in a substantial lessening of 
competition in any of the relevant markets.  
 
