 
Page 1 of 18 
 
Public Competition Assessment 
11 March 2016 
Royal Dutch Shell’s proposed acquisition of BG Group 
The ACCC’s decision 
1. On 19 November 2015 the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission 
announced its decision not to oppose the proposed acquisition of BG Group plc 
(BG) by Royal Dutch Shell plc (Shell). 
2. The ACCC decided that the proposed acquisition would be unlikely to contravene 
section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the Act). 
3. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to have the 
effect, of substantially lessening competition in any market. 
4. The ACCC considered the competitive effects of the proposed acquisition in the 
following markets: 
 the wholesale supply of natural gas in eastern Australia 
 the wholesale supply of natural gas in Queensland. 
5. The ACCC: 
 considered that the proposed acquisition would not substantially reduce the 
supply of gas, or reduce competition to supply gas, to domestic customers in 
Queensland and eastern Australia by changing Shell’s incentives. With or 
without the proposed acquisition, Shell’s incentives in developing its Arrow 
reserves would be structured around supplying gas to LNG producers. 
 was not satisfied that the loss of potential future competition between Arrow 
and BG for the supply of gas to domestic users was likely to be substantial in 
the relevant market(s), given the uncertainty about the amount and timing of 
future industry gas supplies. 
6. This Public Competition Assessment outlines reasons for the decision by the 
ACCC not to oppose Shell’s proposed acquisition BG. 
7. As the proposed acquisition raises important issues, the ACCC is issuing this 
Public Competition Assessment to outline the reasons for its decision. 


 
Page 2 of 18 
8. Please note that this and other public competition assessments are subject to the 
following qualifications: 
 the ACCC considers each transaction on a case-by-case basis and so the 
analysis and decision outlined in one assessment will not necessarily reflect 
the ACCC’s view of another transaction even where that other transaction 
may involve the same or a related market; and 
 as assessments are brief and also do not refer to confidential information 
provided by the merger parties or other market participants, assessments do 
not set out all of the issues and information considered by the ACCC, nor all 
of the analysis and reasons of the ACCC.  
The ACCC’s East Coast Gas Inquiry 
9. Separate to its review of this proposed acquisition, and pursuant to a Ministerial 
direction under Part VIIA of the Act, the ACCC is also undertaking a broader 
assessment of the competitiveness of wholesale gas supplies and prices, and the 
structure of the upstream, processing, transportation, storage and marketing 
segments of the gas industry in eastern Australia (the East Coast Gas Inquiry). As 
part of that inquiry, the ACCC released an issues paper in June 2015 and has 
conducted public hearings. The East Coast Gas Inquiry is scheduled to deliver its 
final report to the Minister in April 2016. 
10. During its review of the proposed acquisition, the ACCC received a large number 
of submissions from market participants that expressed their concerns about the 
impact of the merger in the context of issues that are being considered by the East 
Coast Gas Inquiry. The ACCC carefully considered all submissions it received 
about the proposed acquisition. However, its decision in this review was based 
only on the likely competitive impact of the proposed acquisition itself. The ACCC 
continues to consider many of the other issues raised about the structure of the 
industry as part of the East Coast Gas Inquiry. 
The parties and the transaction 
The acquirer: Royal Dutch Shell plc 
11. Shell is a global group of energy and petrochemicals companies. Shell operates 
upstream exploration businesses and downstream refining, manufacturing and 
marketing businesses in a number of countries. 
12. Shell currently has a 50% interest in Arrow Energy Pty Ltd (Arrow), a joint venture 
with PetroChina (on behalf of the China National Petroleum Company, CNPC). 
Arrow is a Queensland coal seam gas (CSG) company involved in the exploration 
and development of CSG fields in the Surat and Bowen Basins, gas production 
and sales, and some electricity generation activities.  
13. Arrow’s reserves constitute a significant proportion of the non-LNG aligned gas 
reserves in eastern Australia. For the purposes of this paper, the ACCC uses the 
expression ‘LNG aligned’ where one or more parties have significant ownership 
interests in both gas resources and LNG facilities. 


 
Page 3 of 18 
14. Arrow, or joint ventures in which Arrow is involved, supply gas to domestic 
customers that include: 
 Incitec Pivot, which receives gas from the Moranbah Gas Project,1 a 50/50 
joint venture between Arrow and AGL (Bowen Basin)2 
 Queensland Nickel, which receives gas from the Moranbah Gas Project 
(Bowen Basin)3 
 Moranbah and Townsville Power Stations, which receive gas from the 
Moranbah Gas Project (Bowen Basin)4 
 Alinta's Braemar 1 power station (Surat Basin)5 
 related parties of Arrow, including the Daandine and the Braemar 2 Power 
Stations (Surat Basin)6 
 CS Energy's Swanbank E Power Station which receives gas from Arrow's 
Kogan North JV with CS Energy (Surat Basin)7. 
15. Most of Arrow’s domestic supply contracts are contracts that Arrow entered into 
prior to Shell and PetroChina’s acquisition of Arrow in 2010. Since this acquisition, 
Arrow has entered into few new contracts for the wholesale supply of gas. 
16. Arrow previously intended to develop an LNG export facility in Gladstone. 
However, these plans were delayed in 2014 and publicly cancelled in January 
2015. 
17. Prior to the announcement of the proposed acquisition, Arrow had been actively 
exploring options for commercialising its reserves through a large scale 
development involving commercial arrangements with an LNG project, which 
would secure a significant foundation volume. Documents supporting this were 
provided to the ACCC during the course of the review. 
18. Currently, Arrow’s Bowen Basin reserves are only connected to the North 
Queensland Gas Pipeline (which runs between Moranbah and Townsville). Without 
a pipeline to take Arrow’s gas south from the Bowen Basin, Arrow is currently 
unable to deliver gas from its Bowen Basin fields to either the LNG plants at 
Gladstone or to southern domestic gas users. Arrow is currently considering the 
development of a transmission pipeline from the Bowen region to Gladstone, 
having called for expressions of interest for the design and construction of its 
proposed Arrow-Bowen pipeline; the proposed route is shown in Figure 1 below. 
19. While Arrow's Surat Basin reserves are not currently directly connected to a high-
pressure transmission pipeline, there are a number of existing transmission 
pipelines close to Arrow’s Surat Basin fields, including transmission pipelines to the 
                                                 
1 SMH, Moranbah gas supply problems to hit Incitec Pivot profit, 8 July 2015, 
http://www.smh.com.au/business/moranbah-gas-supply-problems-to-hit-incitec-pivot-profit-20150707-
gi7dxf.html  
2AGL, ASX & Media Release, 11 February 2015, 
http://www.agl.com.au/~/media/AGL/About%20AGL/Documents/Investor%20Centre/2015/150211_REsult
s_Presentation.pdf  
3 Arrow, Arrow Bowen Gas Project EIS, p. 3. 
https://www.arrowenergy.com.au/__data/assets/pdf_file/0017/3824/Section_01-Introduction.pdf 
4 Arrow, Our operations,  https://www.arrowenergy.com.au/our-company/our-projects 
5 Ibid 
6 Ibid 
7 Ibid 


 
Page 4 of 18 
LNG projects in Gladstone (including to BG’s QCLNG Project) and the Roma to 
Brisbane pipeline (these pipelines are shown in Figure 3). The ACCC understands 
that Arrow currently uses small capacity pipelines, or obtains access to existing 
pipelines, to transport gas to domestic customers located near Dalby and Ipswich. 
Arrow has also been considering developing a pipeline between its Surat reserves 
and Gladstone; the proposed route is shown in Figure 1 below.  
Figure 1: 
Arrow’s tenements and proposed pipeline routes 
 
Source: Arrow Energy, www.arrowenergy.com.au/our-company/our-projects, August 2015. 
The target: BG Group plc 
20. BG is an international explorer and producer of oil and gas, and supplier of LNG. 
21. BG’s major Australian interests are held by QGC Pty Ltd (QGC), a wholly owned 
subsidiary which BG acquired in 2008. QGC holds interests in natural gas 
tenements and production facilities in the Surat Basin in Queensland, and 
exploration rights in the Bowen and Cooper Basins (see Figure 2). 
22. QGC also has a majority interest (74%) in an LNG plant on Curtis Island (QCLNG) 
with China National Offshore Oil Corporation (CNOOC) and Tokyo Gas. The plant 
currently converts gas sourced from production wells in the Surat Basin into LNG 


 
Page 5 of 18 
for shipment to export markets. See Table 1 (on page 9) for more detail on 
QCLNG. 
23. BG (through QGC) currently has domestic gas contracts with power stations, 
industrial users and gas retailers and supplies about 20% of Queensland's gas 
demand. However its main focus appears to be on LNG exports through QCLNG. 
The ACCC understands that the domestic contracts BG has entered into in recent 
years have been short term contracts for the supply of ‘ramp’ gas, which is 
produced during the commissioning phase of LNG plants.  
24. BG’s Surat Basin reserves are connected to the east coast pipeline network. 
Figure 2: 
BG’s east Australian tenements 
 
Source: BG Group, www.bg-group.com/assets/files/cms/CountryData/BG_Data_Australia.pdf, 
2015 
The transaction 
25. On 8 April 2015, Shell announced its intention to acquire the entire share capital of 
BG by way of a court-sanctioned scheme of arrangement under Part 26 of the 
Companies Act 2006 (UK). 
26. The proposed acquisition would involve Shell acquiring a range of global assets, 
including in particular in Brazil, North America, Kazakhstan, the North Sea and 
Australia. Shell’s stated rationale for the transaction is to improve its global 
portfolio of productive assets, particularly in the sectors of deep water and liquefied 
natural gas. 


 
Page 6 of 18 
Review timeline 
27. The following table outlines the timeline of key events in this matter.  
Date 
Event 
11 June 2015 
ACCC commenced review under the Merger 
Process Guidelines.8 
9 July 2015 
Closing date for submissions from interested parties. 
3 September 2015 
Former proposed decision date of 3 September 
2015 delayed by ACCC to allow additional time to 
consider the proposed acquisition. 
17 September 2015 
ACCC published a Statement of Issues outlining 
preliminary competition concerns. 
8 October 2015 
Closing date for submissions relating to Statement 
of Issues. 
22 October 2015 
Former decision date of 12 November 2015 delayed 
by ACCC to allow additional time to consider the 
proposed acquisition. 
19 November 2015 
ACCC announced it would not oppose the proposed 
acquisition. 
28. The total elapsed time from start to finish was just over five months. However, the 
total period net of time taken by the parties to submit information or documents 
was 93 business days. 
Market inquiries 
29. The ACCC conducted market inquiries with a range of industry participants, 
including competitors, potential competitors, domestic gas users, industry bodies, 
other regulatory agencies and other interested parties. Submissions were sought in 
relation to the substantive competition issues. 
Industry background 
30. The main potential competition issues considered by the ACCC relate to the 
wholesale supply of natural gas to domestic gas users. 
31. Natural gas is mainly used for generating electricity, heating, cooking, as a fuel for 
vehicles and as a feedstock in the production of plastics, chemicals, fertilisers, 
explosives and other goods. It can also be transformed into LNG for export by 
liquefying the gas in a production facility called an LNG train. 
32. In eastern Australia, most natural gas is produced from either sedimentary basins 
(conventional gas) or from coal seams (CSG). Conventional gas is predominantly 
produced from offshore Victoria in the Gippsland, Bass and Otway Basins, and 
                                                 
8 Shell provided its initial written submission to the ACCC on 4 June 2015. 


 
Page 7 of 18 
onshore in the Cooper Basin. Current CSG production is limited to Queensland 
and a small amount in New South Wales. Other unconventional gas resources 
(shale, deep coals and tight gas9) are in sedimentary basins across Australia 
although much of these resources are not currently commercially or technically 
recoverable. 
33. Extracted gas is processed before being transmitted from gas fields to customers 
via high pressure transmission pipelines. As shown in Figure 3, an interconnected 
transmission pipeline system links the major gas basins in southern and eastern 
Australia to demand centres. While gas tends to be purchased from the closest 
possible source to minimise transport costs, pipeline interconnections have the 
potential to enhance supply competition in the market by enabling gas customers 
to source gas from different producers or gas basins, either physically or though 
entering into gas swap arrangements.  
                                                 
9  Tight gas is natural gas produced from reservoir rocks with such low permeability that hydraulic 
fracturing is necessary to produce the well at economic rates.  


 
Page 8 of 18 
Figure 3: 
Eastern Australian gas basins and infrastructure 
Source: Core Energy Group, Gas reserves and resources: Eastern and South Eastern 
 
Australia, February 2015, p. 26. 
Liquefied natural gas and changing market dynamics 
34. There are currently three LNG joint ventures with facilities in Gladstone—QCLNG, 
Gladstone LNG (GLNG) and Australia Pacific LNG (APLNG). Details of the three 
LNG joint ventures and their ownership interests are shown in Table 1. These joint 
ventures also own upstream infrastructure facilities and gas reserves (listed in 
Table 2). 


 
Page 9 of 18 
Table 1: 
Gladstone LNG projects 
Project 
QCLNG 
GLNG 
APLNG 
Participants 
BG (50% Train 1, 
97.5% Train 2) 
China National 
Offshore Oil 
Corporation 
(CNOOC) (50% 
Train 1) 
Tokyo Gas (2.5% 
Train 2) 
Santos (30%) 
Petronas (27.5%) 
Total (27.5%) 
KOGAS (15%) 
Origin (37.5%) 
ConocoPhillips 
(37.5%) 
Sinopec (25%) 
Production 
capacity 
2 Trains (8.5Mtpa) 
2 Trains (7.8Mtpa) 
2 Trains (9Mtpa) 
Note: Mtpa = million tonnes per annum. For comparison, the production of 1 million tonnes 
of LNG requires around 55 PJ of gas.  
35. The LNG projects are significantly altering the supply and demand dynamics in the 
domestic gas industry in eastern Australia. Domestic gas users in Eastern 
Australia have been exposed, for the first time, to international gas prices and 
there are uncertainties about the amount of gas that will be available for domestic 
use in eastern Australia in the future.10 
36. Once the three LNG plants reach a steady state of production in around 2018-19, 
they will require around 1350–1450 petajoules (PJ) of gas per annum to meet their 
export obligations over the duration of their long-term LNG export agreements. At 
the same time, the Australian Energy Market Operator has (AEMO) forecast that 
demand for domestic gas in eastern Australia will fall from approximately 680 PJ in 
2014 to around 520 PJ per annum by 2019.11 The decrease is mainly driven by 
forecast falls in the use of gas for electricity generation (GPG).  
Figure 4: Forecast annual gas consumption (including LNG exports) in eastern 
Australia 
 
                                                 
10 ACCC East Coast Gas Inquiry, Issues Paper, p. 3. 
11 AEMO, National gas forecasting report 2014, December 2014, p. 14. 


 
Page 10 of 18 
Source: AEMO, National gas forecasting report 2014, December 2014, p. 14. 
Other industry participants 
37. A number of wholesale gas producers and suppliers have operations in eastern 
Australia. Due to the high costs and risks associated with gas projects, the majority 
of domestic gas projects are joint ventures.  
38. Other industry participants include the Gippsland Basin joint venture (owned by 
ExxonMobil and BHP Billiton), the Cooper Basin joint ventures (between Santos, 
Beach Energy and Origin), large energy generators and retailers with upstream 
gas portfolios (such as AGL Energy), and a number of smaller gas developers and 
producers (such as Beach Energy, Senex Energy, Drillsearch Energy and Strike 
Energy).12 
39. Table 2 below lists the main producers and suppliers with operations in eastern 
Australia (with their ownership interests, current gas production and shares of 
production and proven and probable (2P) gas reserves). The reserve positions 
included in Table 2 are as at May 2015, and the production figures are for the 12 
months to May 2015. This was the most recent data that was available to the 
ACCC at the time that it reached its decision. 
40. When considering the figures in Table 2, it is important to bear in mind that: 
 As the three LNG projects have been increasing their gas production and will 
continue to do so until they reach steady-state levels around 2018-19, shares 
of gas production for the 12 months to May 2015 are unlikely to be 
representative of the expected shares of future gas production. 
 Reserves are a final stage in the process of petroleum resource 
categorisation: 
o The full process of resource development commences with 
exploration for prospective resources. In the event of discovery, 
these may then be classified as sub-commercial contingent 
resources. Then, if there is a firm intention by a company to develop 
the resources for a specific project and within a reasonable time 
frame (often associated with a final investment decision on that 
project) they may be reclassified as reserves.13 Thus by the time 
resources are classified as reserves, they have been subject to 
substantial appraisal and investment. 
o Proved and probable (2P) reserves is an estimate of the quantity of 
reserves; it implies a 50% probability that the volumes of gas 
actually produced from the reserves will equal or exceed the 2P 
estimate.14 
o A full picture of the ownership of east coast gas resources would 
also include contingent resources and prospective resources. 
However, the ACCC does not have comprehensive data on these 
categories. 
                                                 
12 At the date of the ACCC’s decision, Drillsearch Energy and Beach Energy had announced a proposed 
merger. 
13 Society of Petroleum Engineers, Petroleum Resources Management System: Guide for Non-Technical 
Users, p.3 http://www.spe.org/industry/docs/PRMS_guide_non_tech.pdf  
14 Society of Petroleum Engineers, Petroleum Resources Management System 2007 p.11 
http://www.spe.org/industry/docs/Petroleum_Resources_Management_System_2007.pdf 


 
Page 11 of 18 
 The ACCC has chosen to organise the data in Table 2 by project, rather than 
by individual project owners. This does not imply that all projects listed in 
Table 2 market their gas output on a joint basis. 
 ‘LNG alignment’ indicates that one or more parties has significant ownership 
interests in both gas reserves and LNG facilities; however, this does not 
necessarily mean that all gas in an LNG aligned project is destined to supply 
an LNG plant. 
 The ACCC obtained the data on 2P gas reserves and production used in 
Table 2 from EnergyQuest – an industry consultant. EnergyQuest obtains its 
data from a combination of public sources and its own estimates based on 
industry knowledge. Other than providing the data, EnergyQuest had no 
input into how the data would be used or presented.


 
Page 12 of 18 
Table 2:  
Eastern Australia gas production and reserves (by project) 
Project 
Ownership / JV Interests 
LNG 
aligned? 
Production 
Share of 
production 
2P reserves 
Share of  
reserves 
 
PJ 
% 
PJ 
% 
Arrow  
Shell 50% 
PetroChina 50%  
No 
31 
4 
8,844 
18 
Queensland LNG plants a 
 
 
366 
44 
28,701 
60 
APLNG 
Origin 37.5% (operator upstream)  
ConocoPhillips 37.5% (operator downstream) 
Sinopec 25%  
Yes 
173 
21 
13,778 
28 
GLNG 
Santos 30.0% (operator)  
PETRONAS 27.5%  
Total 27.5%  
KOGAS 15.0% 
Yes 
36 
4 
5,603 
12 
QCLNG 
BG 74% upstream resources and infrastructure 
(operator)  
CNOOC 24.5%  
Tokyo Gas 1.5% 
Yes 
157 
19 
9,320 
19 
Other Queensland Coal Seam Gas 
 
 
12 
1 
4,335 
9 
AGL Qld  
AGL (share of Moranbah with Arrow)  
No 
6 
1 
1,257 
3 
Santos other CSG  
Santos holds permits in own right (not as part of GLNG)  
Yes 
0 
0 
471 
1 
PetroChina  
PetroChina holds permits in own right (not as part of 
Arrow JV) 
No 
0 
0 
435 
1 
Origin Ironbark  
Origin holds permits in own right (not as part of APLNG) 
Yes 
0 
0 
256 
1 
Senex CSG  
Senex 100%  
No 
0 
0 
473 
1 
Meridian  
Landbridge and Mitsui  
No 
2 
0 
680 
1 
Other CSG  
Various companies with small interests  
 
3 
0 
763 
2 
NSW Coal Seam Gas 
 
 
5 
1 
1,280 
3 
Santos Narrabri  
Santos 80% (operator)  
Energy Australia 20% (in development) b 
Yes 
1 
0 
777 
2 
AGL NSW 
AGL 100% Camden Project (operating) and Gloucester 
Project (in development) c  
No 
4 
1 
503 
1 


 
Page 13 of 18 
Project 
Ownership / JV Interests 
LNG 
aligned? 
Production 
Share of 
production 
2P reserves 
Share of  
reserves 
 
PJ 
% 
PJ 
% 
Conventional Gas Onshore  
 
 
94 
11 
1,662 
3 
Cooper Basin JVs 
Two separate JVs (SA and Western Qld) with Santos, 
Beachd and Origin  
Yes 
88 
11 
1,425 
3 
Other Cooper Basin  
Drillsearchd, Senex, Strike Energy  
No 
3 
0 
119 
0 
Other Qld Conventional Gas  
Various small interests  
 
3 
0 
118 
0 
Conventional Gas Offshore  
 
 
328 
40 
3,913 
8 
Gippsland Basin JV 
ExxonMobil 50% (operator)  
BHPB 50%  
No 
217 
26 
2,484 
5 
Kipper Gas  
ExxonMobil 32.5% (operator)  
BHPB 32.5%  
Santos 35% (in development first gas 2016) e 
Yes 
0 
0 
622 
1 
Longtom  
Seven Holdings 100%  
No 
7 
1 
0 
0 
BassGas  
Origin 42.5%, AWE 35%, Toyota Tsusho 11.25%, Prize 
Petroleum International 11.25%. 
Yes 
12 
1 
158 
0 
Otway  
Origin 67.23%, Benaris 27.77% and Toyota Tsusho 5% 
Yes 
43 
5 
280 
1 
Casino/Henty 
Santos 50% (operator), AWE 25%, Mitsui 25%. 
Yes 
26 
3 
216 
0 
Minerva 
BHP Billiton 90% (operator), Santos 10%  
No 
24 
3 
82 
0 
Origin (Halladale) 
Origin 100% (no production developed)  
Yes 
0 
0 
71 
0 
Total 
 
835 
- 
48,735 
- 
Source: Energy Quest data, August 2015 (numbers may not add up due to rounding). 
Notes:  
a  Reserve figures in this section are reserves held by the LNG joint ventures themselves; reserves held by members of those joint ventures in their own right are listed 
separately. 
b  On 6 February 2016, Santos announced that it had written down the remaining book value of its Narrabri assets and had moved its 2P reserves into the contingent 
resources category.  
c  On 4 February 2016, AGL announced that it would not proceed with the Gloucester Project, and that it would progressively decommission wells at the Camden Gas Project 
prior to ceasing production in 2023. 
d  Drillsearch Energy and Beach Energy announced a proposed merger on 23 October 2015. 
e  On 9 November 2015 Santos announced a sale of its 35% interest in the Kipper project in the Gippsland Basin to Mitsui


 
Page 14 of 18 
Market definition 
41. The focus of the ACCC's review was on Shell's and BG's gas operations in 
Queensland and in eastern Australia more broadly. While Shell also has oil and 
gas interests offshore in Western Australia and the Northern Territory, all of BG's 
Australian interests are in eastern Australia. 
42. The relevant markets were considered to be: 
 the wholesale supply of natural gas in eastern Australia, or 
 the wholesale supply of natural gas in Queensland. 
43. In the context of this review, ‘wholesale supply’ includes the activities of 
exploration, production and supply. 
44. The ACCC formed the view that substitution options for purchasers of wholesale 
gas are limited. Where gas is used as a feedstock in a production process 
switching from gas to other fuels is not possible. For other customers that use gas 
as an energy input, the ACCC’s market inquiries suggested that the costs involved 
in changing fuels are such as to make substitution to an alternate energy source 
uneconomic as a response to a small but significant increase in the price of gas. 
45. The ACCC did not consider it necessary to reach a concluded view in relation to 
the geographic dimension of the relevant market because this would not have led 
to a different view about the likely competition effects of the merger. The ACCC 
considered the broader competitive dynamics in each of the possible markets, 
taking into account on-going and likely changes in these dynamics and the current 
uncertainty about how the industry will develop. In considering the broader 
competitive dynamics, the ACCC took into account the Northern Territory 
Government’s November 2015 announcement of the successful applicant to 
construct the North East Gas Interconnector (NEGI), the planned route of the 
pipeline and its expected capacity. At the time of the ACCC’s decision, the 
expected date for the first shipment of gas over the NEGI was 2018. 
Competition analysis 
With/without test 
46. Section 50 of the Act prohibits mergers or acquisitions that would have the effect or 
be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. In 
assessing a proposed acquisition pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC 
considers the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future competitive 
environment if the acquisition proceeds (the “with” position) to the likely future 
competitive environment if the acquisition does not proceed (the “without” position) 
to determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to substantially lessen 
competition in any relevant market. 
47. In this instance, the future environment if the acquisition does not proceed is likely 
to be a continuation of the status quo, in that BG and Shell (and Arrow) are likely to 
continue to operate under current ownership. 


 
Page 15 of 18 
Overview 
48. The ACCC considered three different ways in which the proposed acquisition could 
potentially substantially lessen competition. The ACCC considered the effect of the 
proposed acquisition on: 
 Arrow’s incentives to compete to supply gas to domestic users 
 future competition between Arrow and BG to supply gas to domestic users 
 Arrow’s and BG’s incentives to develop their gas resources and explore for 
additional gas. 
49. The ACCC formed the view, however, that Shell’s proposed acquisition of BG 
would be unlikely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in the 
relevant market(s). The ACCC’s competition analysis is set out below. 
Effect of the proposed acquisition on Arrow’s incentives to compete to 
supply gas to domestic users 
50. A key issue for the ACCC was whether the proposed acquisition would reduce the 
supply of gas, and reduce competition to supply gas, to domestic customers in 
Queensland and eastern Australia by changing Arrow’s incentives. 
51. The proposed acquisition would align Shell’s interest in Arrow with BG’s interest in 
QCLNG. The ACCC considered whether: 
 as a 50% owner of Arrow, Shell would be able to control or influence the 
choice of customers with which Arrow signs gas supply agreements 
(including by exercising negative control) 
 as a result of the alignment between Shell’s interest in Arrow and BG’s 
interest in QCLNG, Shell would have an incentive to direct the supply of 
Arrow’s gas to the QCLNG project ahead of other (domestic) gas users. 
52. The ACCC was concerned that if, as a result of the proposed acquisition, Shell had 
a greater incentive to act in this manner, the impact on the Queensland or eastern 
Australian gas market(s) could have been substantial, given Arrow’s potential to 
act as a significant new source of supply to domestic customers. As illustrated in 
Table 2 (on page 12):  
 
The vast majority (about 68%) of eastern Australian 2P gas reserves are held 
by market participants that are aligned with the LNG plants. The ACCC 
understands that the primary purpose of LNG plant owners holding gas 
resources is to secure supply for their own LNG projects, rather than for supply 
to domestic users. The percentage of eastern Australian 2P gas reserves that 
would be held by market participants that are aligned with the LNG plants 
would increase to about 86% if Arrow’s reserves became aligned to QCLNG. 
 
A significant proportion of production by non-LNG aligned producers is 
currently accounted for by one producer - the Gippsland Basin JV between 
ExxonMobil and BHPB. 
 
While there are a number of smaller gas suppliers in the market, their collective 
market share is small both as a proportion of production and as a proportion of 
reserves. 


 
Page 16 of 18 
 
Arrow’s reserves represent a substantial proportion of gas reserves that are 
currently not aligned with an LNG plant.15 
53. The ACCC considered whether, as a result of the above, a likely consequence of 
the proposed acquisition would be higher domestic gas prices and more restrictive 
non-price contractual terms relative to the situation without the proposed 
acquisition. 
54. The ACCC concluded that the proposed acquisition would not change Arrow’s 
incentive to supply LNG customers. Arrow would have a strong incentive to supply 
a significant proportion of its gas to a foundation LNG customer, both with and 
without the proposed acquisition because: 
 Arrow will have to incur significant capital expenditures to develop its 
extensive reserves and transport the gas to customers. 
 Arrow will have a commercial incentive to reduce its risks in undertaking 
large, long-term capital expenditures by securing high volume, long-term 
contracts to underpin those expenditures. 
 Domestic supply agreements are unlikely to be of sufficient scale to provide 
the foundational contract(s) that are needed to underpin development of 
Arrow’s resources. 
55. Evidence was presented to the ACCC that Arrow has not been active in new sales 
to domestic customers since it was purchased by the Shell/PetroChina joint 
venture in 2010. As mentioned above at paragraph 17, prior to the announcement 
of the proposed acquisition, Arrow had been actively exploring options for 
commercialising its reserves through a large scale development involving 
commercial arrangements with an LNG project. Therefore, the ACCC concluded 
that in the scenario without the proposed acquisition, Arrow would still seek a 
foundation LNG customer and be focussed on LNG supply. 
56. As neither Arrow nor Shell are currently focussed on supplying domestic 
customers, and appeared unlikely to be so in the future, the ACCC concluded that 
aligning Shell’s interest in Arrow with an interest in an LNG operator would not 
change competition for the supply of gas to domestic customers. 
Effect of the proposed acquisition on future competition between Arrow 
and BG to supply gas to domestic users 
57. Another important issue for the ACCC’s review was whether the proposed 
acquisition would be likely to substantially lessen competition for the supply of gas 
to customers in the relevant market(s) by removing the potential for competition 
between Arrow and BG to supply domestic customers. A key aspect of this issue 
was the likelihood and extent to which Arrow and BG would be competitors in the 
absence of the proposed acquisition. 
58. An important consideration was whether, in the absence of the proposed 
acquisition, Arrow and BG would both have ‘excess’ gas above the amount 
required to satisfy their likely contractual commitments to LNG customers and 
whether they would offer that excess gas to domestic customers. 
                                                 
15 While the points made in paragraph 52 have been described in terms of 2P reserves, the ACCC 
considers that the position is likely to be similar in respect of gas resources more broadly. 


 
Page 17 of 18 
59. At the time of publishing the Statement of Issues, the ACCC held the preliminary 
view that BG is unlikely to be a potential supplier of new long-term gas supply 
agreements to domestic gas users irrespective of the proposed acquisition. That 
view was based on information provided by market participants suggesting that at 
present QCLNG does not have access to sufficient gas to satisfy its existing LNG 
supply agreements. 
60. At the time of making its final decision, based on further information received 
during the review, the ACCC considered that BG would be likely to have ‘excess’ 
gas (above the amounts required to meet its existing contractual commitments) for 
a period and, during that period, it may compete to supply domestic gas users in 
the absence of the proposed acquisition. The ACCC still considered that in the 
absence of the proposed acquisition, BG’s prime focus would be on supplying gas 
to the QCLNG project. However, its updated view was that one potential supply 
option for any ‘excess’ gas held by BG was to supply that gas to domestic gas 
users. Other options available to BG in the absence of the proposed acquisition 
would include liquefying any excess gas to supply the LNG spot market, or 
supplying the gas to other LNG operators in Gladstone (APLNG or GLNG).  
61. However, the ACCC considered that there was also considerable uncertainty about 
the amount and timing of Arrow’s and BG’s future gas supplies as well as those of 
its potential future competitors.  
62. Given this level of uncertainty about the future circumstances of the domestic gas 
industry, the ACCC could not be satisfied that any loss of potential competition 
between Arrow and BG would be likely to substantially lessen competition in either 
of the relevant markets. 
Effect of the proposed acquisition on Arrow’s and BG’s incentives to 
develop their gas resources and explore for gas 
63. The ACCC also considered whether the proposed acquisition would reduce Shell’s 
incentives to explore for gas and develop Arrow’s and BG’s resources in a timely 
manner. If the relative cost of producing gas from Arrow’s resources was lower 
than producing gas from BG’s resources (or other alternative sources of gas for the 
QCLNG plant), Shell may have an incentive post-acquisition to substitute cheaper 
Arrow gas for gas that would otherwise have been produced from BG’s existing 
resources. It may therefore defer development of BG’s higher-cost resources. The 
ACCC was concerned that if this were to occur, it could have a substantial impact 
on the level of competition in relevant gas market(s). 
64. However, the ACCC considered there was too much uncertainty about the relative 
costs, quantity and timing of future gas supplies to conclude that the proposed 
acquisition would be likely to result in the substitution of Arrow gas for gas that 
would otherwise have been produced from BG’s resources, or in a reduction or 
deferral of gas exploration by the merged entity relative to total exploration by 
Arrow and BG separately.  
65. As stated above at paragraph 54, Arrow would have a strong incentive to supply a 
significant proportion of its gas to a foundation LNG customer, both with and 
without the proposed acquisition. The ACCC recognised that all of the LNG 
operators will have commercial incentives to meet their LNG export commitments 
from the cheapest available source of gas. In the scenario without the acquisition, 
Arrow’s foundation LNG customer (whoever it is) may itself have incentives to 
substitute Arrow gas for gas that would otherwise be produced from its own 


 
Page 18 of 18 
resources (or other alternative sources of gas) if it were profitable to do so. Given 
this, even if the proposed acquisition resulted in a net decrease in the volume of 
gas produced from existing QCLNG sources, it was not clear to the ACCC that this 
would be a net reduction in total market supply relative to the likely situation 
without the proposed acquisition. 
66. Another relevant consideration was that post-acquisition, Shell would not generally 
have the ability to make decisions on the timing and scale of exploration and 
development decisions on its own. Major decisions on Arrow’s and BG’s gas 
development, production and exploration activities are likely to require the 
agreement of Shell’s joint venture partner in Arrow and BG’s joint venture partners 
in the QCLNG project, respectively. 
67. Further, the ACCC considered that any decision by the merged entity to reduce 
these exploration and development activities would risk consequences under the 
Queensland Government's regulatory regime for tenure management, such as loss 
of some tenure.  
Possible undertakings 
68. During its review, the ACCC received a large number of submissions from market 
participants concerned about the competition effects of the proposed acquisition 
and the current state of the east Australian gas market.  
69. Some market participants urged the ACCC to approve the acquisition, but only if 
the merger parties provided undertakings to offer greater quantities of gas to 
domestic customers. These market participants considered that the proposed 
acquisition may provide a ‘route to market’ that allows Arrow’s gas to be developed 
more quickly, and that undertakings of this kind would serve to protect the 
requirements of domestic gas users. 
70. The ACCC considered the potential undertakings suggested by market 
participants. However, the ACCC can only accept undertakings where competition 
concerns arise from the acquisition and it finds that certain undertakings can 
effectively address those concerns. For the reasons discussed above, the ACCC 
did not find merger-specific competition concerns that required a remedy.  
Conclusion 
71. Based on the above analysis, the ACCC concluded that the proposed acquisition 
of BG Group by Royal Dutch Shell would not be likely to have the effect of 
substantially lessening competition in any market. 
