 
Page 1 of 22 
 
Statement of Issues 
17 September 2015 
Royal Dutch Shell plc – proposed acquisition of BG Group 
plc 
Purpose 
1. This Statement of Issues aims to: 
 
provide the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission’s (ACCC’s) 
preliminary views on competition issues arising from Royal Dutch Shell 
plc’s (Shell) proposed acquisition BG Group plc (BG) 
 
identify areas of further inquiry 
 
give all interested parties an opportunity to comment 
 
invite interested parties to submit information to assist us in our 
assessment of the issues. 
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views 
2. The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in 
section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the Act). Section 50 
prohibits acquisitions that substantially lessen competition in a market, or are likely 
to do so.  
3. The ACCC divides its preliminary views in this Statement of Issues into two 
categories: 'issues that may raise concerns' and ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’. 
Issue that may raise concerns 
4. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition would align Shell’s 
interests with BG’s interest in the QCLNG liquefied natural gas (LNG) project and 
may decrease the incentive for Arrow (a joint venture in which Shell holds a 50% 
interest) to supply gas to the domestic market. By removing some (or all) of 
Arrow’s gas from the domestic market, the proposed acquisition could substantially 
lessen competition in either the Queensland or eastern Australian gas market.  
5. By reducing the supply of gas to the domestic market, the proposed acquisition 
could increase the market power of the limited number of other potential suppliers 
to the domestic market. This could lead to higher domestic prices and more 


Royal Dutch Shell plc – proposed acquisition of BG Group plc 
 
Page 2 of 22 
restrictive non-price contractual terms relative to the situation without the proposed 
acquisition. 
Issue unlikely to raise concerns 
6. The ACCC considers that the proposed acquisition would be unlikely to increase 
the ability or incentive of Shell to foreclose supply of gas to rival LNG plants 
because the merged entity would only supply a small share of the global LNG 
market.  
Making a submission 
7. The ACCC is seeking submissions from interested parties, particularly on the 
likelihood that the proposed acquisition would lead to higher wholesale prices for 
natural gas in the Queensland or broader eastern Australia gas market. 
8. Detailed discussion of these and other issues, along with specific questions, is 
contained in this Statement of Issues.  
9. Interested parties should provide submissions by no later than 5pm on 8 October 
2015. Responses may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: 
Submission re: Shell’s proposed acquisition of BG – attention Andrew Sudol / Lisa 
Beckmann. If you would like to discuss the matter with ACCC officers by telephone 
or in person, or have any questions about this letter, please contact Andrew Sudol 
on (02) 6243 1222 or Lisa Beckmann on (02) 9230 9164.  
10. The ACCC anticipates making a final decision on 12 November 2015; however, 
this timeline can change. To keep abreast of possible changes in relation to timing 
and to find relevant documents, interested parties should visit the Mergers Register 
on the ACCC's website at www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
Confidentiality of submissions 
11. The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We will 
not disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) unless 
compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or during 
court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the Act. Where the ACCC is 
required to disclose confidential information, we will notify you in advance where 
possible so that you may have an opportunity to be heard. Therefore, if the 
information provided to the ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate as 
such. Our Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information. 
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’ 
12. A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well as 
identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
13. A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 


Royal Dutch Shell plc – proposed acquisition of BG Group plc 
 
Page 3 of 22 
The ACCC’s (separate) East Coast Gas Inquiry  
14. Separate to this merger review, the ACCC is undertaking a broader assessment of 
the competitiveness of wholesale gas supplies and prices, and the structure of the 
upstream, processing, transportation, storage and marketing segments of the gas 
industry in eastern Australia (the East Coast Gas Inquiry). As part of that inquiry, 
the ACCC has released an issues paper and has been conducting public hearings. 
The East Coast Gas Inquiry is scheduled to release its final report in April 2016.  
15. If you wish to make general comments on the competitiveness of the wholesale 
gas industry, as distinct from the competition effects of the proposed acquisition, or 
if you wish to find out further information about the East Coast Gas Inquiry, please 
see http://www.accc.gov.au/regulated-infrastructure/energy/east-coast-gas-inquiry-
2015. 
Timeline 
Date 
Event 
11 June 2015 
ACCC commenced review of the proposed 
acquisition 
17 September 2015 
ACCC publication of Statement of Issues 
8 October 2015 
Closing date for submissions relating to Statement of 
Issues 
12 November 2015 
Proposed date for announcement of ACCC’s final 
decision  
The merger parties 
16. On 8 April 2015, Shell announced its intention to acquire BG. Under the proposal, 
BG would become a wholly owned subsidiary of Shell. 
17. Shell is a global group of energy and petrochemicals companies. Shell operates 
upstream exploration businesses and downstream refining, manufacturing and 
marketing businesses in a number of countries. 
18. BG is an international explorer and producer of oil and gas, and supplier of LNG. 
BG undertakes upstream exploration, development and production of natural gas 
and oil, as well as downstream LNG shipping and marketing in a number of 
countries. 
19. The focus of the ACCC’s review is Shell’s and BG’s gas operations in Queensland 
and in eastern Australia more broadly. While Shell also has oil and gas interests 
offshore in Western Australia and the Northern Territory, all of BG’s Australian 
interests are in eastern Australia.  
Shell’s eastern Australian gas operations 
20. Shell holds a 50% interest in Arrow Energy Pty Ltd (Arrow), a joint venture (JV) 
with PetroChina (on behalf of the China National Petroleum Company, CNPC). 
Arrow is a Queensland coal seam gas (CSG) company that produces gas in the 
Surat and Bowen Basins (Figure 1). Arrow is involved in the exploration and 


Royal Dutch Shell plc – proposed acquisition of BG Group plc 
 
Page 4 of 22 
development of CSG fields, gas production and sales, and some electricity 
generation activities. 
21. Arrow, or joint ventures in which Arrow is involved, supply gas to domestic 
customers that include: 
 
Incitec Pivot, which receives gas from the Moranbah Gas Project,1 a 50/50 joint 
venture between Arrow and AGL (Bowen Basin)2 
 
Queensland Nickel, which receives gas from the Moranbah Gas Project 
(Bowen Basin)3 
 
Moranbah and Townsville Power Stations, which receive gas from the 
Moranbah Gas Project (Bowen Basin)4 
 
Alinta's Braemar 1 power station (Surat Basin)5 
 
related parties of Arrow, including the Daandine and the Braemar 2 Power 
Stations (Surat Basin)6 
 
CS Energy's Swanbank E Power Station which receives gas from Arrow's 
Kogan North JV with CS Energy (Surat Basin)7. 
22. Most of Arrow’s domestic supply contracts are contracts that Arrow entered into 
prior to Shell and PetroChina’s acquisition of Arrow in 2010. Since this acquisition, 
Arrow has entered into few new contracts for the wholesale supply of gas. 
23. Arrow previously intended to develop its own LNG export facility in Gladstone. 
However, these plans were delayed in 2014 and publicly cancelled in January 
2015.  
24. Arrow’s reserves constitute a significant proportion of the non-LNG aligned proved 
and probable (2P) gas reserves in eastern Australia at over 56% (see Table 3 
below). For the purposes of this paper, the ACCC uses the expression ‘LNG 
alignment’ where one or more parties have significant ownership interests in both 
gas reserves and LNG facilities.  
25. Prior to the announcement of the proposed acquisition, Arrow had been actively 
exploring options for commercialising its reserves through a large scale 
development involving commercial arrangements with an LNG project, which 
would secure a significant foundation volume. Documents supporting this have 
been provided to the ACCC. 
26. Currently, Arrow’s Bowen Basin reserves are only connected to the North 
Queensland Gas Pipeline (which runs between Moranbah and Townsville). Without 
a pipeline to take Arrow’s gas south from the Bowen Basin, Arrow is currently 
                                                 
 
1 SMH, Moranbah gas supply problems to hit Incitec Pivot profit, 8 July 2015, 
http://www.smh.com.au/business/moranbah-gas-supply-problems-to-hit-incitec-pivot-profit-20150707-
gi7dxf.html  
2AGL, ASX & Media Release, 11 February 2015, 
http://www.agl.com.au/~/media/AGL/About%20AGL/Documents/Investor%20Centre/2015/150211_RE
sults_Presentation.pdf  
3 Arrow, Arrow Bowen Gas Project EIS, p. 3. 
https://www.arrowenergy.com.au/__data/assets/pdf_file/0017/3824/Section_01-Introduction.pdf 
4 Arrow, Our operations,  https://www.arrowenergy.com.au/our-company/our-projects 
5 Ibid 
6 Ibid 
7 Ibid 


Royal Dutch Shell plc – proposed acquisition of BG Group plc 
 
Page 5 of 22 
unable to deliver gas from its Bowen Basin fields to either the LNG plants at 
Gladstone or to southern domestic gas users. Arrow is currently considering the 
development of a transmission pipeline from the Bowen region to Gladstone, 
having called for expressions of interest for the design and construction of its 
proposed Arrow-Bowen pipeline; the proposed route is shown in Figure 1 below. 
27. While Arrow's Surat Basin reserves are not currently directly connected to a high-
pressure transmission pipeline, there are a number of existing transmission 
pipelines close to Arrow’s fields, including transmission pipelines to the LNG 
projects in Gladstone (including to BG’s QCLNG Project) and the Roma to 
Brisbane pipeline (these pipelines are shown in Figure 4). The ACCC understands 
that Arrow currently uses small capacity pipelines, or obtains access to existing 
pipelines, to transport gas to domestic customers located near Dalby and Ipswich. 
Arrow has also been considering developing a pipeline between its Surat reserves 
and Gladstone; the proposed route is shown in Figure 1 below.  
Figure 1: 
Arrow’s tenements and proposed pipeline routes 
 
Source: Arrow Energy, www.arrowenergy.com.au/our-company/our-projects, August 2015. 
BG’s east Australian gas operations 
28. BG’s major interests are held by QGC, a wholly owned Australian subsidiary which 
BG acquired in 2008. QGC holds interests in natural gas tenements and 


Royal Dutch Shell plc – proposed acquisition of BG Group plc 
 
Page 6 of 22 
production facilities in the Surat Basin in Queensland, and exploration rights in the 
Bowen and Cooper Basins (see Figure 2). 
29. QGC also has a majority interest (74%) in an LNG plant on Curtis Island (QCLNG) 
with China National Offshore Oil Corporation (CNOOC) and Tokyo Gas. The plant 
currently converts gas sourced from production wells in the Surat Basin into LNG 
for shipment to export markets. See Table 2 for more detail on QCLNG. 
30. BG (through QGC) currently has domestic gas contracts with power stations, 
industrial users and gas retailers and supplies about 20% of Queensland's gas 
demand. However its main focus appears to be on LNG exports through QCLNG. 
The ACCC understands that the domestic contracts BG has entered into in recent 
years have been short term contracts for the supply of ‘ramp’ gas, which is 
produced during the commissioning phase of LNG plants.  
31. BG’s Surat Basin reserves are connected to the east coast pipeline network. 
Figure 2: 
BG’s east Australian tenements 
 
Source: BG Group, www.bg-group.com/assets/files/cms/CountryData/BG_Data_Australia.pdf, 
2015 
Main areas of overlap  
32. As outlined above, both Arrow and BG produce gas from interests in the Surat 
Basin in Queensland. Arrow currently produces gas in the Bowen Basin in 
Queensland while BG holds currently undeveloped interests in that basin. 
33. Further details about Arrow and BG’s reserves and production in eastern Australia 
are contained below under the heading ‘Market participants’.  


Royal Dutch Shell plc – proposed acquisition of BG Group plc 
 
Page 7 of 22 
Other areas of overlap  
34. Table 1 below summarises other areas of overlap between the parties in Australia. 
35. The ACCC considers that the extent of the overlap between Shell and BG in these 
areas is small in the context of the relevant markets, and is unlikely to have any 
material competitive impact. The ACCC has not therefore considered these areas 
of overlap further. 
Table 1: 
Other areas of overlap between the merger parties in Australia 
Area of overlap 
Shell / Arrow 
BG 
International supply 
of LNG 
 
Shell participates in a number of 
upstream gas exploration and 
production projects in Western 
Australia. These include LNG 
projects, such as the Prelude 
Floating LNG Project, North West 
Shelf (16.67%), Gorgon LNG JV 
(25%), Browse JV (27%) and 
Sunrise gas field (26.6%). 
Globally, Shell has LNG supply 
projects in operation or under 
construction in nine countries. 
Shell also holds a minority interest 
in Woodside. 
BG has an interest in the QCLNG 
Project (50% interest in Train 1, 
97.5% interest in Train 2), which 
currently converts gas sourced from 
the Surat Basin into LNG for 
shipment.  
Globally, BG has an LNG shipping 
and marketing business, which 
purchases, ships, markets and sells 
LNG.  
Development, 
production and 
supply of crude oil 
Shell holds a minority interest in 
Woodside Petroleum a large 
producer of oil and gas primarily 
in Western Australia.  
Through QGC, BG holds a minority 
interest in Drillsearch, which 
produces oil and small volumes of 
gas. 
Electricity 
generation in 
Queensland 
Arrow has some electricity 
generation activities (including 
owning the 450MW capacity 
Braemar 2 power station). 
Through QGC, BG owns the 
140MW capacity Condamine power 
station.  
Industry background 
36. The main potential competition issues associated with the proposed acquisition 
relate to the wholesale supply of natural gas to the domestic market.  
37. The main uses of natural gas are in power generation, heating, cooking, as a fuel 
for vehicles and as a feedstock in the production of plastics, chemicals, fertilisers 
and explosives. It can also be transformed into LNG for export. The process of 
liquefying natural gas for export occurs in a production facility called an LNG train. 
38. Figure 3 below provides a high level overview of the main stages of the supply 
chain of natural gas. 


Royal Dutch Shell plc – proposed acquisition of BG Group plc 
 
Page 8 of 22 
Figure 3:  Overview of the natural gas supply chain 
 
Source: Productivity Commission, Examining Barriers to More Efficient Gas Markets, 2015, 
p. 26. 
39. In eastern Australia, most natural gas is produced from either sedimentary basins 
(conventional gas) or from coal seams (CSG). Conventional gas is predominantly 
produced from offshore Victoria in the Gippsland, Bass and Otway Basins, and 
onshore in the Cooper Basin. Current CSG production is limited to Queensland 
and a very small amount in New South Wales. Other unconventional gas 
resources (shale, deep coals and tight gas8) are in sedimentary basins across 
Australia although much of these resources are not currently commercially or 
technically recoverable. 
40. Extracted gas is processed before being transmitted from gas fields to customers 
via high pressure transmission pipelines. As shown in Figure 4, an interconnected 
transmission pipeline system links the major gas basins in southern and eastern 
Australia to demand centres. While gas tends to be purchased from the closest 
possible source to minimise transport costs, pipeline interconnections have the 
potential to enhance supply competition in the market by enabling gas customers 
to source gas from different producers or gas basins, either physically or though 
entering into gas swap arrangements.  
                                                 
 
8 Tight gas is natural gas produced from reservoir rocks with such low permeability that hydraulic 
fracturing is necessary to produce the well at economic rates.   


Royal Dutch Shell plc – proposed acquisition of BG Group plc 
 
Page 9 of 22 
Figure 4: 
Eastern Australian gas basins and infrastructure 
Source: Core Energy Group, Gas reserves and resources: Eastern and South Eastern 
 
Australia, February 2015, p. 26. 
Liquefied natural gas and changing market dynamics 
41. There are currently three JVs with LNG facilities that are in production or nearing 
completion in Gladstone—Queensland Curtis LNG (QCLNG), Gladstone LNG 
(GLNG) and Australia Pacific LNG (APLNG). BG has a significant interest in the 
QCLNG project (see Table 2). The three LNG JVs have entered into large long-
term LNG export agreements; they will need access to significant gas reserves to 
underpin production to meet their export obligations over the duration of their 
export agreements. Table 2 sets out details on these projects. 


Royal Dutch Shell plc – proposed acquisition of BG Group plc 
 
Page 10 of 22 
Table 2: 
Gladstone LNG projects 
Project 
QCLNG 
GLNG 
APLNG 
Participants 
 
BG (50% Train 1, 97.2% 
Train 2) 
 
CNOOC (50% Train 1) 
 
Tokyo Gas (2.5% Train 2) 
 
Santos (30%) 
 
Petronas (27.5%) 
 
Total (27.5%) 
 
KOGAS (15%) 
 
Origin (37.5%) 
 
ConocoPhillips 
(37.5%) 
 
Sinopec (25%) 
Production 
capacity 
2 Trains (8.5Mtpa) 
2 Trains (7.8Mtpa) 
2 Trains (9Mtpa) 
Start date 
Train 1 first shipment Jan 2015 
Train 2 first shipment Jul 2015 
Full capacity expected in 2016 
Train 1 first shipment 
expected in fourth 
quarter 2015 
Train 1 first LNG 
shipment expected in 
fourth quarter 2015  
Note: Mtpa = million tonnes per annum. 
42. The LNG projects are significantly altering the supply and demand dynamics in the 
domestic gas industry in eastern Australia. Domestic gas users have been 
exposed, for the first time, to international gas prices and there are uncertainties 
about the future availability of gas for domestic use in eastern Australia.9 It is 
expected that a large share of gas reserves in Queensland will eventually be 
directed to LNG export when the three LNG plants are operating at full capacity. 
This has caused various market participants to have concerns about potential 
shortages in domestic supply.  
43. As shown in Figure 5, once the three LNG plants reach a steady state of 
production at around 2018-19, they will require around 1350-1450 petajoules (PJ) 
of gas per annum. At the same time, the Australian Energy Market Operator has 
(AEMO) forecast that demand for domestic gas in eastern Australia will fall from 
700 PJ to around 520 PJ per annum by 2019. The decrease is mainly driven by 
forecast falls in the use of gas for electricity generation (GPG).  
Figure 5: Annual gas consumption (including LNG exports) for eastern Australia 
 
Source: AEMO, National gas forecasting report 2014, December 2014, p. 14. 
                                                 
 
9 ACCC East Coast Gas Inquiry, Issues Paper, p. 3. 


Royal Dutch Shell plc – proposed acquisition of BG Group plc 
 
Page 11 of 22 
Market definition 
44. The ACCC assesses the competitive effects of the proposed acquisition in relevant 
markets. The starting point for defining relevant markets involves identifying the 
products actually or potentially supplied by the merger parties. The ACCC then 
considers what other products constitute sufficiently close substitutes to provide a 
significant source of constraint on the merged entity. 
45. The key area of overlap between Shell and BG for the purposes of this review is 
Shell and BG’s interests in the production and wholesale supply of natural gas in 
Queensland / eastern Australia (described above in the section headed ‘The 
merger parties’). 
Customer substitution opportunities for wholesale natural gas 
46. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that substitution options for purchasers of 
wholesale natural gas are limited. 
47. Some customers use natural gas as a feedstock. For example, it is an input in the 
production of fertilizer. Where gas is used as a feedstock, switching from natural 
gas to other fuels is not possible.  
48. Other large customers use gas as an energy input (for example, to generate power 
for manufacturing facilities). The ACCC’s market inquiries suggest that for 
customers of this type, the costs involved in changing fuels in terms of plant 
upgrades or retrofits, typically make substitution uneconomical as a response to a 
small but significant increase in the price of gas.10 
49. For these reasons, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the relevant market is for 
the supply of wholesale natural gas only, and does not include any other products.  
Geographic market 
50. The ACCC’s market inquiries have provided it with mixed information on whether 
the geographic scope of the relevant market is limited to Queensland or eastern 
Australia.  
51. The merger parties’ east coast gas operations are both located entirely within 
Queensland. However, as shown above in Figure 4, an interconnected 
transmission pipeline system links the major gas basins in southern and eastern 
Australia to demand centres. 
52. The ACCC is considering the extent to which this interconnected pipeline system 
means that gas produced in other parts of eastern Australia is a close substitute for 
gas produced within Queensland. 
53. There are currently no pipelines linking gas markets in Western Australia and the 
Northern Territory to eastern Australia. The Northern Territory Government has 
proposed a pipeline connecting the Northern Territory gas network with the eastern 
Australian gas network, but the final design, route and timing for construction of the 
pipeline are uncertain. The ACCC understands that even after the pipeline is built, 
it is likely that relatively small volumes of gas would be available initially and that 
further successful exploration and development activities would be needed to 
produce greater quantities of gas for the pipeline. The ACCC is not aware of any 
                                                 
 
10 In testing whether one product is a close substitute for another, it is common practice to ask whether 
substitution would occur in response to a sustained small but significant price increase (say 5–10%). 


Royal Dutch Shell plc – proposed acquisition of BG Group plc 
 
Page 12 of 22 
current plans to extend pipeline linkages to the WA pipeline system. For these 
reasons, the ACCC does not consider there is  a national gas market or a market 
with a broader geographic scope than eastern Australia. 
54. Some market participants submitted that physical, contractual and/or gas 
specification constraints have the effect of either preventing the movement of gas 
by pipeline between some basins and some customers, or making such 
movements commercially unviable. However, the ACCC notes that a number of 
pipelines in eastern Australia have been enhanced (or are being enhanced) for bi-
directional gas flow capability. These developments allow a greater flow of gas to 
the north than has historically been the case.11 The extent to which gas from the 
southern states is substitutable for gas produced in Queensland may well depend 
on the location of the relevant customer. The ACCC notes that the Queensland 
domestic market is currently supplied wholly from gas indigenous to Queensland.  
Preliminary view on relevant market(s) 
55. The ACCC is still considering the geographic scope of the relevant market. Based 
on information received by the ACCC to date, its preliminary view is that the 
relevant markets for assessing the competition effects of the acquisition are likely 
to be for: 
 
the wholesale production and supply of natural gas in eastern Australia, or 
 
the wholesale production and supply of natural gas in Queensland. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary views about 
the definition of the relevant market(s). In particular market participants may wish to 
comment on: 
 
whether the Queensland gas market is a separate market to the rest of the east 
Australian gas market. If so, please provide reasons and supporting evidence.  
 
the extent to which gas produced outside of Queensland is, or could in the future 
be, an economically viable source of supply for Queensland gas users. Please 
include reasons and any supporting evidence for your view.  
 
the extent to which gas produced in Queensland is, or could in the future be, an 
economically viable source of supply for gas users in other parts of eastern 
Australia. Please include reasons and any supporting evidence for your view. 
 
the significance of gas swap arrangements for defining the geographic dimension 
of the market. 
 
whether the geographic dimension of the market should be expanded to reflect the 
proposed construction of a pipeline to allow gas from the Northern Territory to be 
supplied to eastern Australia.  
In answering the above questions, please comment on whether there are physical 
and/or contractual constraints that have the effect of either preventing the movement 
of gas between some basins and some customers, or making such movements 
economically unviable. 
                                                 
 
11 ACCC East Coast Gas Inquiry, Issues Paper, p. 19. 


Royal Dutch Shell plc – proposed acquisition of BG Group plc 
 
Page 13 of 22 
Market participants 
56. A number of wholesale gas producers and suppliers have operations in eastern 
Australia. Due to the high costs and risks associated with gas projects, the majority 
of domestic gas projects are joint ventures.  
57. Table 3 sets out gas production in the 12 months to May 2015 and reserve 
positions of natural gas projects on the east coast. There are a number of industry 
participants (including joint ventures) with large amounts of 2P gas reserves in 
eastern Australia, many of which are currently aligned to LNG projects, as well as 
a range of industry participants with interests in smaller quantities of 2P reserves. 


 
Page 14 of 22 
Table 3:  
Eastern Australia gas production and reserves (by project)  
Project 
Ownership / JV Interests 
LNG 
aligned?a 
Production 
Share of 
production 
2P Reserves 
Share of  
Reserves 
 
PJ 
% 
PJ 
% 
Arrow  
Shell 50% 
PetroChina 50%  
No 
31 
4 
8,844 
18 
Queensland LNG plantsb 
 
 
269 
36 
29,462 
60 
APLNG 
Origin 37.5% (operator upstream)  
ConocoPhillips 37.5% (operator downstream) 
Sinopec 25%  
Yes 
173c 
21 
13,778 
28 
GLNG 
Santos 30.0% (operator)  
PETRONAS 27.5%  
Total 27.5%  
KOGAS 15.0% 
Yes 
36 
4 
5,603 
12 
QCLNG 
BG 74% upstream resources and infrastructure (operator)  
CNOOC 24.5%  
Tokyo Gas 1.5% 
Yes 
157c 
19 
9,320 
19 
Other Queensland Coal Seam Gas 
 
 
12 
1 
4,335 
9 
AGL Qld  
AGL (share of Moranbah with Arrow)  
No 
6 
1 
1,257 
3 
Santos other CSG  
Santos holds permits in own right (not as part of GLNG)  
Yes 
0 
0 
471 
1 
PetroChina  
PetroChina holds permits in own right (not as part of 
Arrow JV) 
No 
0 
0 
435 
1 
Origin Ironbark  
Origin holds permits in own right (not as part of 
APLNG) 
Yes 
0 
0 
256 
1 
Senex CSG  
Senex 100%  
No 
0 
0 
473 
1 
Meridian  
Landbridge and Mitsui  
No 
2 
0 
680 
1 
Other CSG  
Various companies with small interests  
 
3 
0 
763 
2 
NSW Coal Seam Gas 
 
 
5 
1 
1,280 
3 
Santos Narrabri  
Santos 80% (operator)  
Energy Australia 20% (in development)  
Yes 
1 
0 
777 
2 
AGL NSW 
AGL 100% Camden Project (operating) and Gloucester 
Project (in development)  
No 
4 
1 
503 
1 


Royal Dutch Shell plc – proposed acquisition of BG Group plc 
 
Page 15 of 22 
Project 
Ownership / JV Interests 
LNG 
aligned?a 
Production 
Share of 
production 
2P Reserves 
Share of  
Reserves 
 
PJ 
% 
PJ 
% 
Conventional Gas Onshore  
 
 
94 
11 
1,662 
3 
Cooper Basin JVs 
Two separate JVs (SA and Western Qld) with Santos, 
Beach and Origin  
Yes 
88 
11 
1,425 
3 
Other Cooper Basin  
Drillsearch, Senex, Strike Energy  
No 
3 
0 
119 
0 
Other Qld Conventional Gas  
Various small interests  
 
3 
0 
118 
0 
Conventional Gas Offshore  
 
 
328 
40 
3,913 
8 
Gippsland Basin JV 
ExxonMobil 50% (operator)  
BHPB 50%  
No 
217 
26 
2,484 
5 
Kipper Gas  
ExxonMobil 32.5% (operator)  
BHPB 32.5%  
Santos 35% (in development first gas 2016)  
Yes 
0 
0 
622 
1 
Longtom  
Seven Holdings 100%  
No 
7 
1 
0 
0 
BassGas  
Origin 42.5%, AWE 35%, Toyota Tsusho 11.25%, Prize 
Petroleum International 11.25%. 
Yes 
12 
1 
158 
0 
Otway  
Origin 67.23%, Benaris 27.77% and Toyota Tsusho 5% 
Yes 
43 
5 
280 
1 
Casino/Henty 
Santos 50% (operator), AWE 25%, Mitsui 25%. 
Yes 
26 
3 
216 
0 
Minerva 
BHP Billiton 90% (operator), Santos 10%  
No 
24 
3 
82 
0 
Origin (Halladale) 
Origin 100% (no production developed)  
Yes 
0 
0 
71 
0 
Total 
 
835 
- 
48,735 
- 
Source: Energy Quest unpublished data, August 2015 (numbers may not add up due to rounding). 
Notes: a  The ACCC is using the expression ‘LNG alignment’ where one or more parties have significant ownership interests in both gas reserves and LNG facilities. 
However, this does not necessarily mean that all gas in an LNG aligned project is destined to be sent to an LNG plant.  b  Reserve figures in this section are reserves held by 
the LNG joint ventures themselves. Reserves held by members of those JVs in their own right are listed separately.   c  APLNG and QCLNG production has been increasing 
with the start up on the LNG trains 


 
Page 16 of 22 
58. Table 3 illustrates several key features of the market: 
 
The vast majority (about 68%) of eastern Australian 2P gas reserves are held 
by market participants that are aligned with the LNG plants. This would 
increase to about 86% if Arrow’s reserves become aligned to QCLNG. 
 
Arrow’s reserves represent a substantial proportion of 2P reserves that are 
currently not aligned with an LNG plant (over 56%) and are the largest share of 
unaligned gas reserves. 
 
Currently, the largest gas producer in eastern Australia is the Gippsland Basin 
JV between ExxonMobil and BHPB. Neither ExxonMobil nor BHPB have an 
ownership interest in any of the LNG plants in Queensland.  
 
While there are a number of smaller gas suppliers in the market, their collective 
market share is small both as a proportion of production and as a proportion of 
reserves. 
59. The proposed acquisition would further increase the proportion of eastern 
Australian gas reserves that are aligned with an LNG plant. During the ACCC’s 
market inquiries, many market participants expressed significant concerns that, by 
increasing the concentration of gas reserves that are aligned with LNG plants, the 
proposed acquisition would substantially lessen competition for the wholesale 
production and supply of natural gas in the domestic market (in Queensland or 
eastern Australia). 
60. On the basis of the information available to it, the ACCC understands that many of 
the operators listed in Table 3 may be unlikely to offer new gas supply agreements 
to domestic gas users in the Queensland or eastern Australian wholesale gas 
market: 
 
The primary purpose of LNG plant owners holding gas reserves is to secure 
supply for their own LNG projects. 
 
A number of operators listed in Table 3 have already committed their reserves 
to satisfying existing contractual obligations (with domestic gas users and/or 
LNG plants). 
 
Constraints related to the pipeline network may create barriers to gas from 
particular suppliers being delivered to particular gas users, or being delivered 
at a market price. These constraints may include capacity constraints in 
existing infrastructure, the directional flow of gas within the network, contractual 
commitments, and the costs of transportation.  
61. In addition, the ACCC’s market inquiries suggested that some larger domestic 
customers are reluctant to make gas supply agreements with smaller suppliers, 
due to concerns about reliability of supply for large volumes of gas. 
62. Taking into account these market factors, and the large proportion of reserves that 
are currently held by operators that are aligned with LNG plants, the ACCC 
considers that there is currently a limited number of potential suppliers to the 
domestic market that have substantial gas reserves, apart from Arrow. 
The ACCC invites comments on its assessment of the current state of the market for 
the wholesale production and supply of natural gas in Queensland and/or eastern 
Australia.  


Royal Dutch Shell plc – proposed acquisition of BG Group plc 
 
Page 17 of 22 
Future with and without the acquisition 
63. In assessing a proposed acquisition pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC 
considers the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future competitive 
environment if the acquisition proceeds (the “with” position) to the likely future 
competitive environment if the acquisition does not proceed (the “without” position) 
to determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to substantially lessen 
competition in any relevant market.  
64. The ACCC's preliminary view is that the likely competition effects of the proposed 
acquisition are most appropriately assessed against a future in which BG and Shell 
(and Arrow) continue to operate under current ownership (the status quo). The 
ACCC’s preliminary views on the likely relevant behaviour of each of Shell (Arrow) 
and BG with and without the proposed acquisition are set out in the competition 
analysis below. 
Issue that may raise concerns: reduced competition to 
supply domestic gas users and higher prices 
65. The ACCC is concerned that the effect of the proposed acquisition in aligning 
Shell’s interests with BG’s interest in the QCLNG project may decrease the 
incentive for Arrow to supply gas to the domestic market. By removing some (or 
all) of Arrow’s gas from the domestic market, the proposed acquisition could 
substantially lessen competition to supply gas users in either the Queensland or 
eastern Australian gas market, leading to: 
 
reduced supplies of gas in those markets and difficulties for domestic gas 
users in obtaining gas supply contracts  
 
the potential for gas suppliers that do supply in the domestic market to increase 
gas prices and/or include less favourable non-price terms in supply contracts 
than would be the case in the absence of the proposed acquisition. 
66. The potential for these outcomes to occur is discussed below, along with the 
ACCC’s preliminary assessment of the likelihood of new entry into the domestic 
gas market. 
Effect of the proposed acquisition on Arrow’s incentives to compete to supply 
gas in the domestic market 
67. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that Arrow is likely to have a strong incentive to 
supply a significant proportion of its gas to an LNG customer, both with and without 
the acquisition. This is because: 
 
Most of Arrow’s reserves are currently undeveloped, and Arrow will have to 
incur significant capital expenditures to develop its extensive 2P reserves and 
transport the gas to domestic and LNG export markets. 
 
Arrow will have a commercial incentive to reduce its risks in undertaking large, 
long-term capital expenditures by securing high volume, long-term contracts to 
underpin those expenditures. 
 
Domestic supply agreements are unlikely to be of sufficient scale to provide the 
foundational contract(s) that are needed to underpin development of Arrow’s 
resources. 


Royal Dutch Shell plc – proposed acquisition of BG Group plc 
 
Page 18 of 22 
68. In the absence of the proposed acquisition, the ACCC considers that Arrow would 
be indifferent to whether it supplies its remaining gas (that is, gas not committed 
under the terms of its commercial arrangements with a foundation customer) to 
domestic customers or the LNG plants, subject to those customers offering 
equivalent terms (including price, volume, and duration of supply contract).  
69. The ACCC is concerned the proposed acquisition may change Shell’s incentives 
such that it will choose to direct more (and possibly all) of Arrow’s gas towards the 
QCLNG project. 
70. A number of market participants have told the ACCC that at present QCLNG does 
not have access to sufficient gas to satisfy its existing LNG supply agreements. 
QGC has stated publicly that it has global LNG sales agreements for almost 
10 million tonnes a year with CNOOC, Tokyo Gas, GNL Chile, Chubu Electric, and 
the Energy Market Authority of Singapore.12 
71. As a result of aligning Shell’s interests with the QCLNG project, Arrow may have 
an incentive to prioritise supply to the QCLNG project over competing gas users. 
Subject to the views of PetroChina (Shell’s joint venture partner in Arrow), Arrow’s 
reserves may be committed to supplying the QCLNG plant and meeting existing 
legacy gas supply agreements with domestic gas users following the proposed 
acquisition. This is because Shell may have an incentive to reduce the  risks 
associated with failure to meet QGC’s contractual LNG supply obligations by 
reserving some of Arrow’s reserves (that would otherwise be offered to other gas 
users) as a contingency against potential future supply problems. 
72. There may be a greater likelihood that Arrow will offer its gas to competing gas 
users in the absence of the proposed acquisition. These could include domestic 
gas users and other LNG projects, as well as to the QCLNG project.  
73. Since Arrow’s large gas reserves constitute the largest uncontracted gas reserves 
in eastern Australia, the removal or reduction in the importance of Arrow as a 
potential supplier may substantially lessen competition in the domestic gas market. 
This could result in supply/demand imbalances in the domestic market, at least for 
an extended transitional period during which alternative existing gas reserves are 
developed and additional gas reserves are discovered and developed.  
74. The removal or reduction in the importance of Arrow as a potential supplier could 
increase the market power of the limited number of other suppliers with substantial 
gas reserves that would be able to offer to supply gas in the domestic market. 
These alternative suppliers could exercise their market power to increase gas 
prices and impose more restrictive non-price contractual terms (such as shorter 
contract duration, more restrictive ‘take or pay’ obligations, and less flexible 
delivery options) compared to the likely situation without the proposed acquisition. 
Effect of the proposed acquisition on BG’s incentives to compete to supply gas 
in the domestic market 
75. The ACCC considers that, in the absence of the proposed acquisition, BG may in 
future offer new supply contracts to domestic gas users if it were to have excess 
gas after meeting its LNG requirements (and existing legacy contracts). In that 
case, BG would have an incentive to supply some of its excess gas to domestic 
                                                 
 
12 QGC, ‘Export and Domestic Markets’, www.qgc.com.au/qclng-project/export-domestic-markets.aspx, 
September 2015. 


Royal Dutch Shell plc – proposed acquisition of BG Group plc 
 
Page 19 of 22 
customers, subject to those customers offering commercially attractive prices 
and/or other terms for that gas. 
76. However, as noted above, market participants have told the ACCC that at present 
QCLNG does not have access to sufficient gas to satisfy its existing LNG supply 
agreements. 
77. The ACCC’s preliminary view, based on this information, is that BG is unlikely to 
be a potential supplier of new long-term gas supply agreements to domestic gas 
users irrespective of the proposed acquisition. 
Effect of the proposed acquisition on Arrow’s and BG’s incentives to develop 
their gas reserves and explore for gas 
78. The ACCC is also concerned that the proposed acquisition could reduce the 
amount of gas offered to domestic gas users and other LNG plants by changing 
Shell’s incentives in relation to the timing of developing BG’s and Arrow’s reserves.  
79. As noted in the ‘Industry background’ section above, the LNG projects are 
significantly altering the supply and demand dynamics in the domestic gas market 
in eastern Australia. These developments, and associated uncertainty in the 
market over the future supply and demand balance, have resulted in higher 
contract price offers and more restrictive contract terms. Some sources of gas that 
have traditionally supplied domestic gas users in the southern states, such as gas 
from the Cooper Basin, may be redirected to supplying LNG projects, reducing the 
supply options for customers in the southern states and increasing their reliance on 
the few remaining suppliers. 
80. In this context, any new gas supplies in the market have the potential to have a 
material effect on competition for domestic customers. This is true even if new gas 
production is used to supply an LNG project, as that LNG project would then have 
less demand for gas from other sources and that gas may then be offered to 
domestic gas users. Therefore, the ACCC considers that if the proposed 
acquisition resulted in a reduction in Shell’s incentives to develop BG’s and Arrow’s 
reserves in a timely manner, this could have a substantial impact on the level of 
competition in relevant gas market or markets. 
81. Any resulting reduction in the supply of gas to the domestic market could, by 
increasing the market power of the limited number of other potential suppliers to 
the domestic market, lead to higher domestic prices and more restrictive non-price 
contractual terms relative to the situation without the proposed acquisition. 
82. The ACCC has considered a number of ways in which the proposed acquisition 
could change Shell’s incentives and delay the timely development of BG’s and 
Arrow’s reserves and/or reduce exploration activities.  
83. First, if the relative cost of producing gas from Arrow’s reserves were to be lower 
than producing gas from BG’s reserves (or other alternative sources of gas for the 
QCLNG plant), Shell may have an incentive post-acquisition to substitute cheaper 
Arrow gas for gas that would have been produced from BG’s existing reserves and 
defer development of BG’s higher-cost reserves.  
84. As a result of gaining a committed source of gas for the QCLNG plant, BG may 
have an incentive to decrease its exploration activities post-acquisition (taking into 
account the costs and risks associated with gas exploration compared to using 
Arrow’s existing 2P reserves). The proposed acquisition may therefore have the 
potential to further reduce the supply of gas to the domestic market and increase 


Royal Dutch Shell plc – proposed acquisition of BG Group plc 
 
Page 20 of 22 
the market power of the limited number of other potential suppliers to the domestic 
market, and lead to the outcomes identified above. 
85. Second, the ACCC is also considering whether the proposed acquisition could 
reduce the likelihood that Arrow will develop its Bowen Basin reserves by changing 
the relative costs of developing Arrow’s Surat Basin reserves compared to its 
Bowen Basin reserves.  
86. The ACCC understands that BG and Arrow have adjacent tenements in the Surat 
Basin. The proposed acquisition may give Arrow the ability to develop its reserves 
using any spare capacity in existing BG-owned upstream infrastructure in the Surat 
Basin. Arrow may also be able to gain access to the QCLNG pipeline to Gladstone, 
subject to the availability of pipeline capacity and BG’s access arrangements with 
the pipeline owner, APA Group (which acquired the pipeline from BG in June 
2015).  
87. The ACCC has received different views on the likely effect of these potential 
synergies and it is considering those submissions.  
88. Some submissions stated that the proposed acquisition might, by giving Arrow 
access to existing BG infrastructure and expertise, reduce the cost of developing 
Arrow’s reserves and increase its gas production. This may increase the quantity 
of gas that Arrow could supply to domestic customers because it would have more 
surplus gas after meeting QCLNG’s demand for gas. 
89. However, some market participants submitted that as a result of the potential 
synergies in the Surat Basin, Shell would have less incentive to develop Arrow’s 
reserves in the Bowen Basin (where Arrow would need to construct infrastructure 
to develop those reserves). 
90. Third, the ACCC considers that reducing Shell’s incentives to develop Arrow’s 
Bowen Basin reserves would be likely to delay the construction of Arrow’s 
proposed Bowen to Gladstone Pipeline, which is currently in the front end 
engineering design (FEED) phase.13 The ACCC understands that no other gas 
producer in the Bowen Basin currently has plans to construct a pipeline to 
transport gas from the Bowen Basin to Gladstone or to connect with other pipelines 
in the east coast pipeline network. The ACCC is considering whether, in the event 
that Arrow were to deprioritise the development of its Bowen Basin reserves, gas 
reserves owned by other gas producers and explorers in the Bowen Basin may 
become ‘stranded’ if the development of their reserves is contingent on obtaining 
access to third party pipeline infrastructure. 
91. However, in respect of all of the above, the ACCC is also considering the 
incentives created by the Queensland Government's regulatory regime for tenure 
management. In particular, the ACCC is considering whether the legal framework 
creates a sufficient incentive for Arrow to develop its reserves or risk 
consequences that could include loss of some tenure. 
Likelihood of new entry into the domestic gas market 
92. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that significant new entry into the market is 
unlikely in the foreseeable future. 
                                                 
 
13 See Arrow Energy, ‘Arrow Bowen Pipeline’, www.arrowenergy.com.au/projects/arrow-bowen-pipeline, 
April 2015. 


Royal Dutch Shell plc – proposed acquisition of BG Group plc 
 
Page 21 of 22 
93. While some smaller gas suppliers have announced ambitious plans for 
expansion,14 the ACCC’s market inquiries suggest that gas explorers and junior 
gas producers face significant barriers—in the form of long lead times, high capital 
costs and significant financial pressures in the current low oil price environment—
to entering and achieving the scale necessary to constrain suppliers with more 
significant reserves in a timely manner. 
94. Barriers to entry are further heightened by regulatory restrictions in NSW and 
Victoria. For instance, in NSW, there is a moratorium on new CSG exploration 
licences and on CSG production in water catchments. In Victoria, there is a 
moratorium on all hydraulic fracturing and new onshore exploration licences. Since 
2014, Victoria has placed a further hold on all exploration drilling for existing 
licences.  
95. Market inquiries indicated that on occasion large domestic gas users may sponsor 
the entry or expansion of a smaller supplier of natural gas. For instance, Strike 
Energy has Gas Sales Agreements (GSAs) with three large customers that have 
made gas pre‐payments to advance Strike Energy’s appraisal program.15  
96. However, the ACCC understands that such sponsorship is not common. Market 
inquiries indicated that it comes at significant cost and risk for the domestic gas 
user, which many would be either unable or unwilling to bear. Sponsoring 
customers often seek to reduce their risks—Strike’s gas supply obligations under 
the GSAs are conditional upon a final investment decision for the 
commercialisation of a particular project, based on the commercial and technical 
viability of the project.16 
97. For these reasons, the ACCC considers that significant new entry into the market 
is unlikely in the foreseeable future. 
The ACCC invites comments on whether the proposed acquisition would affect the 
likelihood of Arrow supplying gas to domestic users, or the quantity of gas that it would 
be likely to supply to the domestic market. In particular, please comment on: 
 
the proposition that Arrow’s development of its reserves is contingent on obtaining 
large foundational contract(s) and, if so, whether a sufficiently large and long-term 
foundational contract could only be agreed with an LNG plant operator 
 
the amount of gas that Arrow would be likely to supply to the domestic market both 
in the event that the proposed acquisition does not occur and in the event that the 
proposed acquisition does occur, and the reasons for your view. 
The ACCC also invites comments on: 
 
whether and how the proposed acquisition would change Arrow’s and BG’s 
incentives to develop their reserves, invest in infrastructure and explore for gas in 
Queensland  
                                                 
 
14 See for example Beach Energy’s Strategy Review of 12 August 2015, available at 
http://www.beachenergy.com.au/IRM/Company/ShowPage.aspx/PDFs/4293-10000000/StrategyReview 
and Strike Energy’s announcements on their Southern Cooper Basin Project available at 
http://www.strikeenergy.com.au/. 
15 Strike Energy, Public submission to ACCC re: East Coast Gas Inquiry, 2 July 2015, p. 2. 
16 Strike Energy, Public submission to ACCC re: East Coast Gas Inquiry, 2 July 2015, p. 2. 


Royal Dutch Shell plc – proposed acquisition of BG Group plc 
 
Page 22 of 22 
 
whether the Queensland Government’s regulatory regime for tenure management 
would create a sufficient incentive for Arrow and BG not to reduce their reserve 
development and gas production activities. Please give reasons  
 
the likelihood of new entry into the domestic gas market. If possible, please provide 
recent examples of successful entry or attempts to enter. 
Please provide evidence to support your views. 
Issues unlikely to raise concerns: foreclosure of other LNG 
plants 
98. The ACCC has considered whether the proposed acquisition would raise any 
vertical competition concerns. In particular, the ACCC considered whether the 
merged entity could use any market power arising from its large share of 2P 
reserves to foreclose rival LNG plants from accessing gas.  
99. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the merged entity would have little incentive to 
pursue this strategy. This is because the merged entity would only supply a small 
share of the global LNG market and competition in the global LNG market would 
constrain the merged entity from being able to increase the price of its LNG 
exports. As such, this issue is unlikely to raise concerns. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the potential for Shell to 
foreclose rival LNG plants. In particular, market participants may wish to comment on 
whether the merged entity would have the incentive or ability to foreclose rival LNG 
plants to influence prices in the global market.  
ACCC's next steps 
100. The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions 
provided in response to this Statement of Issues. 
101. The ACCC seeks submissions from market participants on each of the issues 
identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that may be relevant 
to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. Submissions are to be received by the 
ACCC no later than 8 October 2015 and should be emailed to 
mergers@accc.gov.au. 
102. The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 12 November 2015. 
However the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Merger Review 
Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose of 
explaining the ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's public 
announcement. 
