 
 
 
Land of the Ngunnawal people
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
Tel 02 6243 1111 
Fax 02 6243 1199
www.accc.gov.au
Our ref: 
IM-72900 
 
27 May 2025 
Dear Interested Party, 
Request for submissions: Icon Group’s proposed acquisition of a leasehold interest 
at Burnside War Memorial Hospital 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
the proposed acquisition of a leasehold interest at Burnside War Memorial Hospital Toorak 
Gardens (Burnside Hospital) by the Icon Group (Icon) (the Proposed Acquisition). 
The Burnside Hospital is a private, not-for-profit community hospital in Adelaide, South 
Australia.  
Icon is a large provider of cancer care services. It operates radiation oncology clinics in all 
states of Australia and the ACT.  
The Proposed Acquisition would enable Icon to establish a radiation oncology facility at 
Burnside Hospital, within a new building which Burnside Hospital intends to develop across 
the road from its existing location.  
Further details about the parties and the Proposed Acquisition can be found in Attachment 
A.  
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact of the Proposed Acquisition on 
competition. In particular, we are seeking your views on: 
• 
the demand for, and current supply of, radiation oncology services in the greater Adelaide 
region and/or South Australia 
• 
the likely impact of the Proposed Acquisition on prices and/or services in the supply of 
radiation oncology services in the greater Adelaide region and/or South Australia  
• 
the extent to which the Proposed Acquisition is likely to raise barriers to entry and 
expansion for alternative private providers of radiation oncology services.  
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  
This matter is public, and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the Proposed Acquisition is in section 50 of 
the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the Act). Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are likely 
to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 


 
 
 
Please provide your response by 10 June 2025 via email to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: 
Submission re: Icon / lease at Burnside Hospital. If you require more time to respond, please let us 
know. 
If you would like to arrange a time to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any questions 
about this letter, please contact mergers@accc.gov.au.   
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public Mergers 
Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC treats sensitive information it receives during a merger review as confidential, and will 
not publish your submission. We will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our 
advisors/consultants) unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information 
legislation or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition and 
Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, we will 
notify you in advance where possible so that you have an opportunity to be heard. Therefore, 
please clearly indicate if any information you provide is confidential. Our Informal Merger Review 
Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
Morag Bond 
General Manager  
Merger Investigations 


 
 
 
Attachment A 
The Acquirer – Icon  
Icon is a large provider of cancer care services which operates in Australia, New Zealand, 
Singapore, Malaysia, China and the United Kingdom. Icon operates radiation oncology 
clinics in all Australian states and the ACT. It also provides medical oncology services, 
pharmaceutical compounding services, pharmacy management services and clinical cancer 
trials at various locations across Australia.  
Icon currently operates 2 private radiation oncology centres in South Australia (Windsor 
Gardens and Noarlunga) and has a third site under development in North Adelaide, all of 
which are located within 50km of the target location. Icon has 3 single standard linear 
accelerators (linac) across its 2 radiation oncology centres in Adelaide (and a fourth linac at 
its North Adelaide facility which is not yet operational).1  
 
The Proposed Acquisition – leasehold interest at Burnside Hospital 
Burnside Hospital is a private, not-for-profit community hospital. Burnside Hospital’s cancer 
services currently include day chemotherapy facilities and surgery, but not radiation 
oncology services. 
Burnside Hospital is currently planning an expansion of its Toorak Gardens location, with the 
development of a 3-storey building directly across the road from the existing hospital.  
The Proposed Acquisition is for a long-term lease on the first floor of the new building. The 
purpose of the Proposed Acquisition is to enable Icon to establish a new radiation oncology 
facility, which will include a single linac.  
 
 
 
 
1 A linac is a machine used in radiation oncology therapy to deliver high-energy x-ray (electron) beams to a patient’s cancer. 
Cancer Council Australia, Understanding Radiation Therapy, March 2024, pp 23, 25, 66.  


 
 
 
Attachment B 
1. Describe your business or organisation and explain your interest in the Proposed 
Acquisition, including any commercial relationship with Icon. 
Competition in radiation oncology services 
2. What providers of radiation oncology services (including both public and private 
providers) compete with Icon in the greater Adelaide region and South Australia more 
broadly? 
3. How far do patients typically travel to access radiation oncology services in South 
Australia? How much does this vary based on whether they live in the greater Adelaide 
region or another part of the state?  
4. Describe the non-price factors by which providers of radiation oncology services 
compete for the supply of radiation oncology services. 
5. Describe whether and to what extent competing providers of radiation oncology services 
would constrain Icon from increasing prices and/or decreasing service levels in the 
greater Adelaide region and/or South Australia, including the impact of factors such as: 
• 
location of existing public and private radiation oncology services 
• 
presence of nearby surgical and medical oncology services, and 
• 
availability of radiation oncologists.   
The questions below are divided into questions for referring doctors and radiation 
oncologists, competitors, and private hospitals, but you are welcome to comment on any 
question/s in any category.  
Questions for referring doctors and radiation oncologists 
6. What are the key factors you consider when referring a patient to a particular radiation 
oncology provider? For example, patient need, treatment type, reputation and expertise, 
cost, equipment, waiting times and location. 
7. To what extent do public and private radiation oncology providers compete with each 
other in South Australia, including with regard to the factors identified in question 6 
above?  
8. Do radiation oncology doctors and specialists in South Australia work across multiple 
sites or clinics? If so, how far do they typically travel between these locations? 
Questions for competitors 
9. What factors inform price setting for radiation oncology services? Do radiation 
oncologists have any input into these pricing decisions?  
10. Describe the impact of government regulation or legislation (including, for example, 
Medicare subsidies and quality standards) on competitive dynamics in the supply of 
radiation oncology services in South Australia.  


 
 
 
Questions for private hospital operators 
11. What factors influence the decision to establish a radiation oncology clinic in your 
hospital? 
12. How do you decide on a provider for radiation oncology services, and what factors do 
you consider in awarding contracts? 
13. Please describe any data you collect relating to radiation oncology services, including 
demand for radiation oncology services and waiting times. 
Other information and competition issues 
14. Describe any trends or changes you see impacting the competitive landscape of the 
radiation oncology services industry, including issues such as bulk-billing rates, price 
changes, and any recent technology developments. 
15. Provide any other information or comments you consider relevant to the ACCC’s 
consideration of the proposed acquisition under section 50 of the Act. 
