 
Microsoft/Nuance – market inquiries email – 12 August 2021 
 
Dear interested party, 
As you may be aware, Microsoft proposes to acquire Nuance Communications, Inc. 
(Nuance). We are seeking your views on this proposal because it may affect you. 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is an independent 
statutory authority responsible for investigating whether mergers are likely to 
substantially lessen competition. We rely on information from market participants to 
make informed decisions.  
 
The target 
Nuance supplies software solutions for automatic speech recognition and 
transcription, and automated voice, mobile, web, and messaging solutions for 
customer contact centres. Microsoft supplies some products with technology 
capabilities that are similar to Nuance, and also supplies a variety of software 
products that integrate with Nuance’s solutions.  
We are interested in Nuance’s supply of the following products: 
1. transcription software for healthcare customers (Dragon Medical and Dragon 
Medical One) and non-healthcare customers (Dragon Professional and 
Dragon Home), 
2. digital engagement (i.e. chatbots and intelligent messaging products), 
3. voice engagement (i.e. conversational and interactive voice response 
products), and 
4. voice biometrics (i.e. products used to identify and verify customers through 
voice recognition). 
 
Information we are seeking 
Amongst other things, we are seeking to understand: 
• 
whether there are alternatives suppliers for each of Nuance’s products,  
• 
how alternative suppliers differ to Nuance based on factors such as price, 
quality, support and functionality, 
• 
what the most important features of Nuance’s products are, and whether 
alternative suppliers are capable of providing those features, 
• 
whether customers can easily switch from Nuance to alternative suppliers, 
• 
how closely Microsoft’s products compete with each of Nuance’s products 
(based on factors such as price, quality and functionality), and 
• 
for competitors of Nuance: 
o whether you rely on integration with any of Microsoft’s products, such 
as Teams, Azure or Dynamics 365, and 


o whether you could easily switch away from Microsoft products (such 
as Teams, Azure or Dynamics 365), to integrate with alternative 
suppliers. 
We would be happy to receive your response by email, or have a discussion with you 
over the phone or via Microsoft Teams. 
Please also provide a brief description of your business, and the reasons for your 
interest in the proposed acquisition, including any commercial relationship/s with 
either of Microsoft or Nuance. This will help us to better understand your views.  
 
How you can engage 
This matter is public and you can forward this email to anybody who may be 
interested. Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the 
ACCC’s Public Mergers Register. 
If you would like to comment in writing, please do so by 27 August 2021 by return 
email or email to mergers@accc.gov.au. Alternatively, email or call me on (02) 9102 
4011, or call Adam Phillimore on (03) 6243 1048, if you prefer to set up a time to 
discuss or if you need more time to respond. 
 
Confidentiality 
The ACCC treats sensitive information it receives during a merger review as 
confidential, and will not publish your submission. We will not disclose submissions to 
third parties (except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by law (for example, 
under freedom of information legislation or during court proceedings) or in 
accordance with s155AAA of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Where the 
ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, we will notify you in advance 
where possible so that you have an opportunity to be heard. Therefore please clearly 
indicate if any information you provide is confidential.  
Our Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on 
confidentiality. 
If you have any questions, please let me know. 
Kind regards 
Sidd Sharma 
