 
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
tel: (02) 6243 1368 
mergers@accc.gov.au
www.accc.gov.au
Our ref: IM-71886  
 
Contact officer: Marisa Kuhlewein / Andy Gallagher 
 
Contact phone: 07 3835 4668 / 02 9230 9129 
 
4 August 2022 
Dear Interested Party 
Request for submissions: Cochlear’s proposed acquisition of Oticon Medical 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
Cochlear Limited’s (Cochlear) proposed acquisition of Oticon Medical A/S (Oticon 
Medical) from Demant A/S (Demant) (the proposed acquisition). 
Cochlear is a global manufacturer and supplier of implantable hearing solutions, including 
cochlear implants and bone conduction solutions in Australia. 
Oticon Medical is a subsidiary of Demant, which is a global manufacturer and supplier of 
various hearing solutions. Oticon Medical is a manufacturer and supplier of cochlear 
implants and bone conduction solutions. Further details are provided at Attachment A.  
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact on competition. In particular, we are 
seeking your views on: 
• the impact of the proposed acquisition on price, quality, service levels, and 
innovation in the supply of cochlear implants and bone conduction solutions 
• whether Oticon Medical is uniquely placed to provide significant future 
competition in the supply of cochlear implants and/or bone conduction solutions, 
and 
• whether customers would have access to alternative suppliers (actual and/or 
potential) of cochlear implants and/or bone conduction solutions after the 
proposed acquisition. 
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth). Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that 
are likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 


Please provide your response by 23 August 2022 via email with the title: Submission re: 
Cochlear/Oticon Medical - attention Marisa Kuhlewein / Andy Gallagher. If you require 
more time to respond, please let us know. 
If you would like to arrange a time to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any 
questions about this letter, please contact Marisa Kuhlewein on 07 3835 4668 or Andy 
Gallagher on 02 9230 9129. 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public 
Mergers Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC treats sensitive information it receives during a merger review as confidential, and will 
not publish your submission. We will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our 
advisors/consultants) unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information 
legislation or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition and 
Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, we will notify 
you in advance where possible so that you have an opportunity to be heard. Therefore please 
clearly indicate if any information you provide is confidential. Our Informal Merger Review Process 
Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
Bruce Mikkelsen 
General Manager (a/g) 
Merger Investigations  
 
 


 
Attachment A 
The proposed acquisition 
On 27 April 2022, Cochlear announced its intention to acquire Demant’s hearing 
implant division, Oticon Medical. 
Cochlear 
Cochlear is a public company listed on the ASX (ASX:COH) with global headquarters 
at Macquarie University, Sydney. It is a global manufacturer and supplier of 
implantable hearing solutions.  
In Australia, Cochlear manufactures and/or supplies: 
• Cochlear implants – under the ‘Nucleus Profile’ and ‘Nucleus Profile Plus’ 
brands.  
• Bone conduction solutions – under the ‘Baha’ brand and ‘Osia’ brands: 
o ‘Baha Attract’ is a passive transcutaneous product 
o ‘Baha Connect’ is a passive percutaneous product 
o products under the ‘Osia’ brand are active transcutaneous products, and 
o non-surgical bone conduction solutions involving a Baha sound processor 
being connected with a Baha Softband or SoundArc. 
Oticon Medical  
Oticon Medical is a subsidiary of Demant, a global manufacturer and supplier of 
various hearing solutions, including hearing aids, hearing care solutions, hearing 
implants, hearing diagnostic products and audio solutions for enterprise, gaming and 
air traffic control. Demant is listed on the Copenhagen Stock Exchange. On 27 April 
2022 it announced its decision to discontinue its hearing implants business and sell it 
to Cochlear.  
Oticon Medical manufactures and supplies Demant’s hearing implants, including: 
• Cochlear implants – under the ‘Zti’ brand with the accompanying sound 
processor being supplied under the ‘Neuro’ brand. The Neuro Zti cochlear 
implant was subject to a product recall in October 2021 and implants to new 
patients are currently suspended. 
• Bone conduction solutions – under the ‘Ponto’ brand: 
o a passive percutaneous system with three different sound processors, and 
o non-surgical bone conduction solutions (Ponto Softband). 
Industry background 
Cochlear implants bypass the middle and inner ear structures to stimulate the 
auditory nerve directly. Cochlear implants are primarily used for patients with severe 
or total hearing loss. The implant consists of an external sound processor that sits 
behind or off the ear and an implant that is surgically placed under the skin. 
Bone conduction solutions bypass a damaged outer or middle ear using a sound 
processor that converts sounds into vibrations that are then sent directly to the inner 
ear. Bone conduction solutions are suitable for those with mild, moderate or severe 
hearing loss. Bone conduction systems can be: 
• transcutaneous – typically features magnets rather than a skin-penetrating 


abutment. These solutions may be ‘passive’ (where a transducer is held outside 
the body) or ‘active’ (where a transducer is under the skin). 
• percutaneous – abutment penetrates the skin. These solutions are ‘passive’ – 
where a transducer is held outside the body. 
• non-surgical – involve an external sound processor being attached to an 
adjustable band around the head. These solutions are primarily used for children 
who are not old enough for a surgical solution, or adults or children who may 
have fluctuating degrees of hearing loss. 


 
Attachment B 
1. Provide a brief description of your business or organisation and the reasons for 
your interest in the proposed acquisition, including any commercial relationship(s) 
with Cochlear, Oticon Medical or Demant. 
2. Outline whether you or any other organisation you are aware of would be 
interested in acquiring all or part of the Oticon Medical business if the proposed 
acquisition does not proceed. Please provide details, including whether you have 
been involved in any sales process, conducted due diligence, and/or submitted a 
bid for the business. 
3. Describe how closely Cochlear and Oticon Medical compete in the supply of: 
a. cochlear implants, and  
b. bone conduction solutions, including each of percutaneous, transcutaneous, 
and non-surgical bone conduction solutions. 
Consider factors such as price, quality, service levels, functionality, innovation, 
research and development, participating in tenders, and/or winning or losing 
customers. Provide specific examples where possible. 
4. Identify and describe how closely Cochlear and Oticon Medical compete with 
alternative suppliers of: 
a. cochlear implants, and 
b. bone conduction solutions, including each of percutaneous, transcutaneous, 
and non-surgical bone conduction solutions.   
Consider factors as above for question 2.  
5. Describe the extent to which: 
a. other hearing solutions, such as hearing aids, can be used instead of cochlear 
implants and/or bone conduction solutions, and 
b. different types of bone conduction solutions, such as percutaneous, 
transcutaneous, and non-surgical bone conduction solutions, can be used in 
place of each other. 
6. Describe how prices for (i) cochlear implants, and (ii) bone conduction solutions 
are set in Australia, including whether manufacturers can influence prices, and 
whether customers can negotiate prices. 
7. Describe how customers procure (i) cochlear implants, and (ii) bone conduction 
solutions in Australia (for example, through tenders or other methods). Identify 
whether cochlear implants and bone conduction solutions are procured together, 
whether arrangements are exclusive, and the typical contract duration.  
8. Describe the relationship, and any supply arrangements, between manufacturers, 
funding providers (for example state-funded or private providers), distributors, 
and private and public hospitals for the supply of (i) cochlear implants, and (ii) 
bone conduction solutions, in Australia.  


9. Describe the importance of innovation and research and development in 
competition for the supply of (i) cochlear implants, and (ii) bone conduction 
solutions in Australia. Identify the main innovators for these products. 
10. Describe the likelihood of a new firm entering, or an existing competitor 
expanding into, the supply of (i) cochlear implants, and (ii) bone conduction 
solutions in Australia. Provide details about the likely costs and lead times, and 
any requirements for entry or expansion (for example, intellectual property, 
access to technology, access to distribution networks, regulatory requirements, 
or establishing reputation). Provide examples of recent entry or expansion where 
possible.  
11. Provide any additional information or comments relevant to the ACCC’s consideration 
of the proposed acquisition, including any concerns with the proposed acquisition.  
