Page 1 of 16 
 
 
Statement of Issues 
1 December 2022 
  
 
Cochlear Limited – proposed acquisition of Oticon 
Medical A/S    
Purpose 
1. 
Cochlear Limited (Cochlear) proposes to acquire 100% of the shares in, and certain 
assets of, Demant A/S’s (Demant) hearing implant division, Oticon Medical A/S 
(Oticon Medical) from Demant (the proposed acquisition).  
2. 
This Statement of Issues:  
• 
gives the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission’s (ACCC) 
preliminary views on competition issues arising from the proposed acquisition  
• 
identifies areas of further inquiry, and  
• 
invites interested parties to submit comments and information to assist our 
assessment of the issues.  
3. 
Statements of Issues do not refer to confidential information provided by the parties or 
other market participants and therefore may not fully articulate the ACCC’s preliminary 
position.  
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views  
4. 
In considering the proposed acquisition, the ACCC applies the legal test set out in 
section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the CCA). In general terms, 
section 50 prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to have the 
effect, of substantially lessening competition in any market.  
5. 
The ACCC divides its preliminary views into three categories, 'issues of concern', 
'issues that may raise concerns' and ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’. In this 
Statement of Issues there are three ‘issues of concern’ and one ‘issue that may raise 
concerns’.   
 
 
 


Page 2 of 16 
 
Issues of concern 
 
Non-surgical bone conduction devices  
6. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is likely to substantially 
lessen competition in the supply of non-surgical bone conduction devices in Australia. 
The ACCC is concerned that the acquisition would lead to higher prices, lower quality 
or service levels, and/or less innovation, research and development in the relevant 
market.  
7. 
The proposed acquisition would remove Cochlear’s closest competitor for the supply of 
non-surgical bone conduction devices. Med-El would be the only remaining competitor 
for the supply of non-surgical bone conduction devices. The ACCC’s preliminary view 
is that Med-El is unlikely to provide a sufficient competitive constraint on a combined 
Cochlear-Oticon Medical. The ACCC also considers there are high barriers to entry 
and expansion and a low likelihood of new entry.  
Surgical bone anchored devices  
8. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is likely to substantially 
lessen competition in the supply of surgical bone anchored devices in Australia.   
9. 
The proposed acquisition would result in a reduction in the number of suppliers of 
surgical bone anchored devices from three to two. The proposed acquisition would 
remove Oticon Medical as the only other supplier of percutaneous surgical bone 
anchored devices and as a potential competitor to Cochlear and Med-El in the supply 
of transcutaneous surgical bone anchored devices. The ACCC is concerned this would 
lead to lower quality or service levels, and/or less innovation, research and 
development in the relevant market and may lead to higher prices.  
Reduced innovation in hearing loss technology  
10. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is likely to reduce 
competition with the effect of lessening innovation, research and development in 
hearing loss technology and devices. A reduction in innovation would significantly 
impact the timeliness, choice and/or quality of devices and technologies available to 
those with hearing loss in the future.  
Issue that may raise concerns 
Cochlear implants  
11. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition may substantially lessen 
competition in the supply of cochlear implants in Australia. The proposed acquisition 
would further increase Cochlear’s large presence in the already highly concentrated 
market for the supply of cochlear implants. The ACCC is concerned that the proposed 
acquisition may increase Cochlear’s ability to profitably decrease quality or service 
levels and/or reduce incentives to innovate or invest in research and development for 
cochlear implants. The ACCC is also considering whether the proposed acquisition 
may lead to higher prices for cochlear implants in the long term.  
 
 


Page 3 of 16 
 
Making a submission  
12. 
The ACCC invites submissions from interested parties. 
13. 
Interested parties should provide submissions by 5pm on 22 December 2022. 
Responses may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: Submission re: 
Cochlear/Oticon Medical – attention Annabel Garrard / Marisa Kuhlewein. If you would 
like to discuss the matter with ACCC staff or have any questions about this Statement 
of Issues, please contact Annabel Garrard on (02) 9102 4028 or Marisa Kuhlewein on 
(07) 3835 4668.   
14. 
The ACCC anticipates making a final decision on 16 March 2023, however, this 
timeline can change. To keep up with possible timing changes and to find relevant 
documents, interested parties should visit the Mergers Register on the ACCC’s 
website at https://www.accc.gov.au/public-registers/mergers-registers/public-informal-
merger-reviews.  
Confidentiality of submissions  
15. 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We will not 
disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) unless 
compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or during court 
proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the CCA. Where the ACCC is required 
to disclose confidential information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where 
possible so that you may have an opportunity to be heard. Therefore, please identify 
any confidential information that is provided to the ACCC. Our Informal Merger Review 
Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality.  
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’  
16. 
A Statement of Issues is not a final decision about a proposed acquisition. A 
Statement of Issues outlines the ACCC’s preliminary views and identifies further lines 
of inquiry.  
17. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide the 
merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary.  
Industry background    
18. 
Hearing aids, non-surgical bone conduction devices, surgical bone anchored devices 
and cochlear implants are all used to treat varying degrees of hearing loss. Less 
severe hearing loss can be treated with hearing aids, while patients with more severe 
conductive hearing loss, or damage to the outer or middle ear, typically use non-
surgical bone conduction devices or surgical bone anchored devices. Cochlear 
implants are typically used by patients with severe or profound sensorineural hearing 
loss.  
Non-surgical bone conduction devices  
19. 
Non-surgical bone conduction devices consist of an external sound processor (with a 
transducer) attached to an adjustable head band or fixed to a patient’s skin behind the 


Page 4 of 16 
 
ear. Sound vibrations can be transferred through the skin to the skull and then the 
cochlea without an implant. These devices are primarily used by children who are not 
old enough for a surgically implanted bone anchored device, or for adults or children 
who have fluctuating degrees of hearing loss.  
20. 
The ACCC estimates that approximately 1,500 non-surgical bone conduction devices 
are supplied to patients in Australia each year.  
Surgical bone anchored devices   
21. 
Surgical bone anchored devices have an external sound processor and a surgically 
implanted fixture placed in the mastoid bone behind the ear. The ACCC understands 
that there are two key types of surgically implanted bone anchored devices:  
• 
Percutaneous: this device has an abutment protruding the skin, to which a sound 
processor is attached. These solutions are classified as ‘passive’ because the 
transducer is located outside the skin.  
• 
Transcutaneous: this device typically features magnets rather than a skin-
penetrating abutment. These solutions may be ‘passive’ (transducer is held 
outside the body) or ‘active’ (transducer is under the skin).  
22. 
The ACCC estimates that fewer than 500 surgical bone anchored devices are supplied 
to patients in Australia each year. Surgical bone anchored devices are listed on the 
Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care Prostheses List (the 
Prostheses List). The ACCC understands that these devices typically cost in the 
order of AUD$10,000 per implant system. 
Cochlear implants  
23. 
Cochlear implants1 feature an external portion that sits behind the ear consisting of a 
microphone and sound processor, and an internal portion that is surgically implanted 
and consists of a transmitter and receiver/stimulator. The transmitter receives signals 
from the sound processor and sends them to electrodes implanted inside the inner ear 
(the cochlea). The ACCC estimates that approximately 1,500 cochlear implants are 
supplied to patients in Australia each year. Cochlear implants are listed on the 
Prostheses List. The ACCC understands that these devices typically cost in the order 
of $AUD25,000 per implant system. 
Prostheses List    
24. 
The Prostheses List2 is a Schedule to the Private Health Insurance (Prostheses) Rules 
(Prostheses Rules). The Prostheses Rules is a legislative instrument made under the 
Private Health Insurance Act 2007 (Cth) The Prostheses List establishes the minimum 
benefit that private health insurers are required to pay (typically to a hospital) when a 
policyholder receives a listed device as part of hospital or substitute treatment and has 
the relevant private insurance coverage. The Prostheses List is administered by the 
Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care on behalf of the Minister 
for Health and Aged Care. The Department, acting on the advice of the Prostheses 
List Advisory Committee, assesses applications for the listing of devices, decides 
 
1 The ACCC understands that Cochlear first developed and was granted a patent for the ‘Cochlear Implant 
Device’, which ended in 2012. The term ‘cochlear device’ is now used to describe the devices used to treat 
severe hearing loss, affecting the cochlea (part of the inner ear). 
2 https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/prostheses-list.  


Page 5 of 16 
 
whether a device falls within an existing category or should be separately listed, and 
sets the benefit amount payable.  
25. 
Surgical bone anchored devices and cochlear implants are listed on Part A of the 
Prostheses List while non-surgical bone conduction devices are not listed on the 
Prostheses List. The ACCC is considering how the Prostheses List impacts 
competition, including price competition, for surgical bone anchored devices and 
cochlear implants supplied to patients with and without private health insurance.  
26. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the benefits listed on the Prostheses List:  
• 
set the minimum benefit payable by private insurers for their members that 
undergo surgery to receive a bone anchored device or cochlear implant in a 
private hospital or clinic, and  
• 
may be used as a reference price in negotiations between manufacturers and 
public hospitals for the supply of non-surgical bone conduction devices, surgical 
bone anchored devices and cochlear implants. 
The parties   
Cochlear  
27. 
Cochlear is a public company listed on the ASX (ASX:COH), with global headquarters 
at Macquarie University, Sydney. In Australia, Cochlear designs, manufactures and 
supplies cochlear implants, non-surgical bone conduction devices and surgical bone 
anchored devices.   
Oticon Medical  
28. 
Oticon Medical is a subsidiary of Demant, a publicly listed company on the Danish 
stock exchange (CPH:DEMANT) and global manufacturer and supplier of various 
hearing solutions. Oticon Medical is a manufacturer and supplier of cochlear implants, 
non-surgical bone conduction devices and surgical bone anchored devices globally, 
including in Australia.  
Other industry participants   
Med-El  
29. 
Med-El is an Austrian-based, privately-owned medical technology company. Med-El 
manufactures and supplies cochlear implants, non-surgical bone conduction devices 
and surgical bone anchored devices globally, including in Australia.   
Sonova  
30. 
Sonova Holding AG (Sonova) is a Swiss-headquartered global hearing care solutions 
provider. In Australia, Sonova supplies cochlear implants under the brand Advanced 
Bionics Australia (Advanced Bionics). Sonova does not currently manufacture or 
supply non-surgical bone conduction devices or surgical bone anchored devices 
globally, or in Australia.   
 
 


Page 6 of 16 
 
Relevant hearing devices 
31. 
Cochlear and Oticon Medical directly overlap in the manufacture and supply of 
cochlear implants, non-surgical bone conduction devices, and surgical bone anchored 
devices. Table 1 below provides an overview of devices offered by the only suppliers 
of these devices and implants in Australia. 
Table 1: Overview of relevant Cochlear, Oticon Medical, Med-El and Sonova devices 
 
Cochlear 
Oticon Medical 
Med-El 
Sonova 
(Advanced 
Bionics) 
Non-surgical 
bone 
conduction 
devices 
 
(not on the 
Prostheses 
List) 
Baha Softband: 
adjustable latex-free 
band worn around the 
head with a Baha brand 
of sound processor 
attached. 
Baha SoundArc: behind-
the-head band with a 
Baha brand of sound 
processor attached to 
connector disc 
Ponto Softband: 
adjustable latex-free 
band worn around 
the head with a 
Ponto brand of 
sound processor 
attached. 
ADHEAR: adhesive 
sticker used to keep 
the sound processor 
in place 
N/A 
Surgical 
bone 
anchored 
devices 
 
(on the 
Prostheses 
List) 
Baha Attract: a passive 
transcutaneous system  
Baha Connect: a 
passive percutaneous 
system 
Osia: an active 
transcutaneous system 
Ponto: a passive 
percutaneous 
system 
Bonebridge: an 
active 
transcutaneous 
system  
N/A 
Cochlear 
implants  
 
(on the 
Prostheses 
List) 
Implants and sound 
processors under the 
‘Nucleus’ brand 
including the ‘Nucleus 
Profile Plus’ implant and 
Nucleus 7 and Nucleus 
Kanso sound 
processors.  
Implants under the 
‘Neuro Zti’ brand 
and sound 
processors under 
the ‘Neuro’ brand. 
Implants under the 
‘Synchrony’ brand 
and sound 
processors under 
the ‘Rondo’ and 
‘Sonnet’ brands 
Implants under the 
‘HiRes’ brand and 
sound processors 
under the ‘Nadia’ 
and ‘Marvel’ 
brands 
The proposed transaction  
32. 
On 27 April 2022, Cochlear announced its intention to acquire 100% of the shares in 
and certain assets of Demant’s hearing implant division, Oticon Medical, for 
consideration of approximately AUD$170 million. This is a global transaction and is 
being considered by competition authorities in other jurisdictions. 
Future with and without the acquisition  
33. 
In assessing a proposed acquisition under section 50 of the CCA, the ACCC considers 
the effects of the proposed acquisition by comparing the likely future state of 
competition if the proposed acquisition proceeds (the ’with’ position) to the likely future 
state of competition if the proposed acquisition does not proceed (the ‘without’ 
position) to determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to substantially lessen 
competition in any relevant market. 


Page 7 of 16 
 
34. 
On 27 April 2022 (updated 15 November 2022), Demant announced it had decided to 
discontinue its hearing implants business and intended to sell Oticon Medical to 
Cochlear. Demant has stated that Oticon Medical is continuing its bone anchored 
hearing systems operations as normal while for cochlear implants it will put its efforts 
into supporting existing patients.3  
35. 
The ACCC is considering the likely future absent the proposed acquisition, including:  
• 
whether Oticon Medical would continue to independently compete against 
Cochlear or whether Demant would sell the business (or part thereof) to an 
alternative purchaser, and 
• 
if Oticon Medical were to exit what would be likely to happen to Oticon Medical’s 
assets (including its intellectual property and manufacturing and research and 
development facilities). 
36. The ACCC has heard concerns Oticon Medical’s existing customers may not receive 
ongoing support for their devices if the transaction does not proceed. The ACCC’s 
preliminary view is that such concerns, while important, are unlikely to form part of the 
competition assessment as required by the Act.    
Market definition  
37. 
As stated in the ACCC’s Merger Guidelines, the ACCC’s starting point for defining 
relevant markets to assess the competitive effects of the proposed acquisition involves 
identifying the products actually or potentially supplied by the merger parties.4 The 
ACCC then considers what other products constitute sufficiently close substitutes to 
provide a significant source of constraint on the combined Cochlear-Oticon Medical.  
38. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the markets below are appropriate for considering 
the effect of the proposed acquisition on competition in Australia. There are a broad 
range of treatment options available to consumers with hearing loss, including various 
devices and reconstructive surgery. Consumer choices will depend on a range of 
factors, including the nature and extent of their hearing loss.  
39. 
The supply or potential supply of cochlear implants, non-surgical bone conduction 
devices and surgical bone anchored devices is the area of overlap between the parties 
and therefore the starting point for the ACCC’s analysis. Other hearing loss 
treatments, including hearing aids, while options available to customers and potential 
substitutes for some consumers, are unlikely to be relevant to identifying the relevant 
markets for assessing this transaction.     
40. 
The ACCC understands that Cochlear and Oticon Medical are also both active in 
researching and developing future technologies and therefore the loss of rivalry may 
impact future competition for the supply of hearing loss technologies and devices more 
broadly. 
 
 
 
3 https://www.oticonmedical.com/au/about-oticon-medical/latest-news/corporate-news-articles/2022/disinvest-
oticon-medical  
4 ACCC, Merger Guidelines 2008 (updated 2017), paragraph 5.17.   


Page 8 of 16 
 
41. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the relevant markets are likely to be: 
• 
a national market for the supply of non-surgical bone conduction devices 
• 
a national market for the supply of surgical bone anchored devices (noting that 
the ACCC is also further considering whether there are two separate markets in 
this category, one for transcutaneous surgical bone anchored devices and one for 
percutaneous surgical bone anchored devices), and 
• 
a national market for the supply of cochlear implants 
Non-surgical bone conduction devices 
42. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that it is appropriate to consider non-surgical bone 
conduction devices in a distinct market from surgical bone conduction devices.   
43. 
The ACCC understands non-surgical bone conduction devices are typically only used 
for patients where a surgical bone anchored device is not suitable due to factors such 
as the patient’s age or anatomy. Cochlear implants are also not considered suitable to 
treat the type of hearing loss treated by non-surgical bone conduction devices.  
44. 
The ACCC is considering whether there may be asymmetric supply-side substitution 
between surgical bone anchored devices and non-surgical bone conduction devices. 
The ACCC understands these devices may share a common sound processor.  
Surgical bone anchored devices  
45. 
Market feedback indicates that patients suitable for surgical bone anchored devices 
typically do not view non-surgical bone conduction devices as viable substitutes. 
Market participants consider non-surgical bone conduction devices less effective at 
correcting hearing loss than surgical bone anchored devices. Cochlear implants are 
also not typically suitable to treat the type of hearing loss treated by surgical bone 
anchored devices.  
46. 
Within surgical bone anchored devices, the ACCC is considering the degree of 
substitutability between transcutaneous and percutaneous devices. It may be 
appropriate to consider these devices in distinct markets. For example, the ACCC will 
consider whether there are certain patients for whom only a percutaneous or only a 
transcutaneous device is suitable. Some market participants submitted that 
percutaneous devices treat a larger range of hearing loss.  
Cochlear implants  
47. 
Market feedback indicates there is very limited demand side substitution between 
cochlear implants and non-surgical bone conduction devices or surgical bone 
anchored devices.  
48. 
Cochlear implants treat the most severe forms of sensorineural hearing loss, which 
non-surgical bone conduction and surgical bone anchored devices cannot.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary views about the 
definition of the relevant market(s). In particular: 
• 
Are hearing aids close substitutes for non-surgical bone conduction devices, surgical 
bone anchored devices and/or cochlear implants? Can hearing aids be used in place of 


Page 9 of 16 
 
these devices and vice versa? Please explain the circumstances in which hearing aids 
might be used instead of these devices. 
• 
Are surgical bone anchored devices and non-surgical bone conduction devices close 
substitutes? Can surgical bone anchored devices be used in place of non-surgical bone 
conduction devices and vice versa? Please explain how.  
• 
What factors influence the choice of surgical bone anchored devices? 
• 
Are percutaneous and transcutaneous surgical bone anchored devices close 
substitutes? Is there a subset of patients for whom only a percutaneous bone anchored 
device or only a transcutaneous bone anchored device is suitable? If so, please explain 
why. 
• 
What are the costs (or ease to which) suppliers can switch between the manufacture and 
supply of surgical bone anchored devices and non-surgical bone conduction devices?  
• 
What are the costs (or ease to which) suppliers can switch between the manufacture and 
supply of percutaneous and transcutaneous surgical bone anchored devices?  
• 
What is innovation and research and development focused on in the hearing loss 
industry (such as a new device or a type of hearing loss) now and in future? How easy or 
difficult would it be for current or potential suppliers to invest in research and 
development for certain hearing loss technologies?   
Barriers to entry and expansion  
49. 
The ACCC is considering the height of barriers to entry and expansion and the 
likelihood of a potential entrant entering in a timely and sufficient way in the relevant 
market/s.  
50. 
Market feedback indicates that barriers to entry and expansion in the supply of non-
surgical bone conduction devices, surgical bone anchored devices and cochlear 
implants are likely high. Specifically: 
• 
there are significant costs for product research and development 
• 
there are complex regulatory approvals required to deliver a product to market 
• 
having a trusted brand, experience and reputation in the industry is important to 
customers, including surgeons that recommend these devices to patients 
• 
there are economies of scale and scope associated with developing, 
manufacturing, and supplying various hearing devices that may limit the viability 
of entry without an established position in a related market.  
51. 
Market feedback indicates there has not been any recent new entry into the supply of 
non-surgical bone conduction devices, surgical bone anchored devices or cochlear 
implants in Australia.  
52. 
Market participants noted that the most likely future suppliers of non-surgical bone 
conduction devices, surgical bone anchored devices and cochlear implants are those 
already present in the supply of other hearing devices. For example, Demant first 
supplied hearing aids before entering the supply of non-surgical bone conduction 
devices and surgical bone anchored devices under Oticon Medical.  


Page 10 of 16 
 
53. 
The ACCC is also considering the extent to which there are other firms globally, that 
are not currently present in Australia, that could potentially enter the Australian market. 
This includes:  
• 
existing suppliers operating in other countries such as US-based manufacturer of 
bone conduction solutions, Medtronic and China-based manufacturer of cochlear 
implants Nurotron Biotechnology Co. Ltd, and  
• 
firms that have products in development such as Australia-based medical start-
up, Hemideina and US-based Envoy Medical, both of which have announced they 
are developing cochlear implant systems. 
54. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that Cochlear would not be competitively constrained 
by the threat of new entry in any relevant market post-acquisition. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary views about the 
existence and height of barriers to entry and/or expansion. In particular:  
• 
What are your views on the significance of, and the difficulty of overcoming, the 
abovementioned (or other) barriers to entry and expansion for the supply of non-surgical 
bone conduction devices, surgical bone anchored devices and cochlear implants? 
• 
Do barriers to entry and expansion vary for the different product markets (including non-
surgical bone conduction devices, surgical percutaneous and transcutaneous bone 
anchored devices, and cochlear implants)?  
• 
Which companies not currently supplying non-surgical bone conduction devices, surgical 
bone anchored devices and/or cochlear implants in Australia could begin doing so and 
why? What steps would they need to take to be successful?  
Issue of concern: non-surgical bone conduction devices  
55. 
The proposed acquisition would remove Oticon Medical as Cochlear’s only significant 
competitor for the supply of non-surgical bone conduction devices. It would 
significantly increase concentration, reducing the total number of suppliers of non-
surgical bone conduction devices from three to two in Australia. Cochlear and Oticon 
Medical supply most of the non-surgical bone conduction devices in Australia.  
56. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that this is likely to substantially lessen competition in 
the supply of non-surgical bone conduction devices in Australia and is likely to lead to 
increased prices, lower service quality and/or reduced incentives to innovate. 
57. 
Market feedback indicates that Cochlear and Oticon Medical’s non-surgical bone 
conduction devices are very similar. Both devices use a processor affixed to 
headbands, use similar passive technology, and achieve similar audiological and 
patient outcomes. 
58. 
Med-El is the only other supplier of non-surgical bone conduction devices in Australia. 
It launched its ADHEAR device in 2017 and accounts for a small proportion of the total 
sales of non-surgical bone conduction devices in Australia.  
59. 
The Med-El ADHEAR uses an adhesive sticker to hold the processor in place (rather 
than a headband). Market feedback indicates that the ADHEAR corrects a smaller 
range of hearing loss than the Cochlear and Oticon Medical devices. Med-El alone is 


Page 11 of 16 
 
unlikely to provide sufficient competitive constraint on the combined Cochlear-Oticon 
Medical to prevent a substantial lessening of competition. 
60. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that new entry or expansion is unlikely, given the 
abovementioned barriers to entry and expansion. The ACCC is unaware of any likely 
or potential entrants. Thus far, the ACCC has not seen indications of likely new entry 
or expansion in the near future. Market feedback also indicates the number of 
suppliers has decreased in recent years.  
61. 
The ACCC is concerned that, irrespective of the precise market definition, the 
proposed acquisition would likely to lead to increased prices, decreased service quality 
and/or a reduced incentive to innovate and invest in research and development for 
non-surgical bone conduction devices in Australia.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to non-
surgical bone conduction devices. In particular:   
• 
What type(s) of patient(s) use non-surgical bone conduction devices? How many 
patients are likely to require surgical bone anchored devices in future? 
• 
What is the quality and price of Med-El’s ADHEAR non-surgical bone conduction device 
compared to Cochlear and Oticon Medical’s non-surgical bone conduction devices? 
• 
How are prices determined for the acquisition of non-surgical bone conduction devices 
acquired from manufacturers? What are the ongoing associated costs? 
• 
To what extent do non-surgical bone conduction devices rely on passive and/or 
percutaneous technology? Are non-surgical bone conduction devices likely to benefit 
from advances in active transcutaneous technology? 
Issue of concern: surgical bone anchored devices  
62. 
The proposed acquisition would result in a high degree of consolidation in the supply 
of surgical bone anchored devices, reducing the number of suppliers from three to two. 
Cochlear is the largest supplier of surgical bone anchored devices in Australia and the 
proposed acquisition would further increase its significant presence. The ACCC’s 
preliminary view is that this consolidation is likely to substantially lessen competition in 
the supply of surgical bone anchored devices in Australia. 
63. 
The ACCC estimates that the combined Cochlear-Oticon Medical would supply more 
than half of the surgical bone anchored devices in Australia.   
64. 
Removing Oticon Medical as the only alternative supplier of percutaneous surgical 
bone anchored devices and as a potential supplier of transcutaneous surgical bone 
anchored devices, is likely to lead to decreased service quality and/or reduced 
incentives to innovate and may lead to increased prices. 
65. 
Market feedback indicates that non-price factors, including reputation, service quality 
and innovation are important bases on which suppliers compete. As discussed at 
paragraph 71, the ACCC is particularly concerned about the potential chilling effect 
any consolidation may have on incentives to innovate and invest in research and 
development for hearing technology.  


Page 12 of 16 
 
66. 
The ACCC is also investigating the impact of the Prostheses List on price competition, 
including the difference between pricing in public and private hospitals, and whether 
suppliers compete with respect to prices on the Prostheses List itself.   
Cochlear and Oticon Medical are the only suppliers of percutaneous surgical bone 
anchored devices in Australia  
67. 
Cochlear and Oticon Medical are the only suppliers of percutaneous surgical bone 
anchored devices in Australia. The ACCC is considering the extent of substitutability 
between transcutaneous and percutaneous surgical bone anchored devices and in 
particular, the extent to which Med-El (which only sells a transcutaneous surgical bone 
anchored device) would provide a competitive constraint on a combined Cochlear-
Oticon Medical in the supply of surgical bone anchored devices.  
68. 
Market feedback indicates that there may be a class of patients for whom only a 
percutaneous surgical bone anchored device is suitable. The ACCC is considering the 
size and scope of this patient class and the likely effect that removing Oticon Medical 
as the only alternative supplier of percutaneous surgical bone anchored devices may 
have on price and non-price outcomes. 
Loss of potential competition for transcutaneous surgical bone anchored devices  
69. 
Market feedback indicates transcutaneous devices are typically preferred where either 
a percutaneous or transcutaneous device may be suitable. This is due to the lower risk 
of infection and more discreet design.  
70. 
Oticon Medical does not currently supply a transcutaneous surgical bone anchored 
device globally or in Australia. However, the ACCC is considering whether, in the 
future, absent the proposed acquisition, Oticon Medical is likely to enter the 
manufacture and supply of these devices. Oticon Medical has recently conducted 
clinical trials of an active transcutaneous surgical bone anchored device, which may 
indicate that Oticon Medical could commence supply of these devices in the near 
future if the proposed acquisition does not proceed. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to surgical 
bone conduction devices.  In particular: 
• 
How closely does Med-El compete with Cochlear and Oticon Medical in the supply of 
surgical bone anchored devices? Consider factors such as price, quality service levels, 
functionality, reputation, innovation and research and development. 
• 
How important will Oticon Medical likely be as a future supplier of surgical bone 
anchored devices? How likely is Oticon Medical to launch an active transcutaneous bone 
anchored device in Australia, in the absence of the proposed acquisition? 
• 
Is Med-El likely to provide sufficient incentives for a combined Cochlear-Oticon Medical 
to continue innovating and investing in research and development for surgical bone 
anchored devices? Would a combined Cochlear-Oticon Medical have sufficient 
incentives to continue to invest in and innovate its percutaneous technology? 
• 
What role does the Prostheses List play in price competition for the acquisition of 
surgical bone anchored devices from manufacturers? Does this differ between private 
and public hospital systems, if so, how? 


Page 13 of 16 
 
Issue of concern: reduced innovation in hearing loss 
technology  
71. 
The ACCC has preliminary concerns that the proposed acquisition would reduce 
competition, with the effect of lessening innovation in hearing loss technology and 
devices. Market feedback indicates innovation is a significant basis on which suppliers 
compete for market share. The ACCC is concerned the proposed acquisition would 
remove Oticon Medical as a global innovator and also reduce or delay incentives for 
firms to invest in improving, updating and launching new products. Over the long term, 
this could ultimately mean lower product quality and reduced choice for patients 
globally and in Australia.  
72. 
Firms have incentives to engage in research and development to protect their market 
share and to win share at the expense of competitors in the future.    
73. 
The ACCC is considering what impact the removal of Oticon Medical would have on 
innovation for hearing loss technology and devices. Importantly, the ACCC is 
considering whether the effect is likely to amount to a substantial lessening of 
competition. In doing so, the ACCC is considering both the number of innovators with 
and without the proposed acquisition. More competitors engaged in innovation leads to 
a higher probability of successful new innovations coming to market and stronger 
incentives to innovate.  
74. 
The extent and quality of each firm’s contribution to innovation is also a relevant factor 
and the levels of investment will be influenced by the extent of competition in the 
industry. Market feedback indicates that Oticon Medical may be particularly innovative 
in the development of bone conduction technology for both non-surgical and surgical 
applications. Oticon Medical currently has a smaller presence in the manufacture and 
supply of cochlear implants, and may also have a smaller impact with respect to 
innovation for cochlear implants than it does for bone conduction devices.  
75. 
The ACCC understands decisions to invest in product innovation are made at the 
global level, taking into account the full range of competitors suppliers face, or may 
face, across the different markets in which they compete or are likely to compete. With 
this in mind, the ACCC is considering whether existing established firms (such as Med-
El and Sonova), as well as emerging and/or potential future firms in the industry, are 
likely to provide a combined Cochlear-Oticon Medical with sufficient incentives to 
continue to innovate as would have occurred absent the proposed acquisition.  
76. 
In addition to research and development activities undertaken “in house” by firms 
active in the manufacture and supply of hearing devices, the ACCC understands that 
there may be additional firms (and individuals) that undertake research and 
development in hearing loss technologies and innovation. The ACCC is considering 
the contribution these organisations make to innovation and how their innovations are 
commercialised. 
77. 
Market feedback indicates there may be research and development occurring that is 
common or applicable across a broad range of devices in the hearing loss industry. 
This appears more likely the case with respect to processors than with respect to 
implants.   
78. 
The ACCC will continue to investigate the likely effect of the proposed acquisition on 
global innovation in the development, manufacture and supply of hearing loss 
technologies and how this might affect patients in Australia.  


Page 14 of 16 
 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to a 
potential reduced innovation in hearing loss technology.  In particular: 
• 
Is Oticon Medical a particularly innovative provider of hearing loss technology and/or 
devices? Are there any examples of past or anticipated significant innovations from 
Oticon Medical? 
• 
Describe the different types of intellectual property relied upon when developing cochlear 
implants and bone conduction devices. Are there any patents or other intellectual 
property that are particularly important to the development, manufacture and 
development of these devices? 
• 
Will the presence of other firms such as Sonova and Med-El sufficiently drive innovation 
for hearing technology and devices? Are there particular devices or technologies that 
these firms are innovative in, or are likely to be in the future?  
• 
To what extent do you consider Cochlear and Oticon Medical compete against each 
other to develop new technology to treat hearing loss? How does this compare to other 
companies involved in hearing loss research and development?  
• 
What other companies could begin (or expand into) research and development for 
technologies and devices to treat hearing loss? Is there any benefit to already being in 
the hearing industry? For example, what is the likelihood a hearing aid company could 
invest further in research and development and compete with a combined Cochlear-
Oticon Medical on innovation?  
• 
What factors influence firms’ decisions to invest in hearing loss research and 
development?  
• 
If the acquisition proceeds, do you expect the rate at which new hearing loss technology 
is developed to change? Please explain how.   
• 
Does the proposed acquisition raise any Australia-specific issues relevant to innovation 
in hearing loss technology? 
Issue that may raise concerns: cochlear implants  
79. 
Cochlear is by far the largest manufacturer and supplier of cochlear implants in 
Australia and globally. Oticon Medical, although much smaller, is one of only three 
competitors to Cochlear in Australia. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed 
acquisition may substantially lessen competition in the supply of cochlear implants by 
removing one of the few constraints on Cochlear. This may lead to increased prices, 
decreased service quality and/or reduced incentives to innovate.  
80. 
Cochlear commercialised the first multi-channel cochlear implant in 1985 and is the 
largest developer, manufacturer, and supplier of cochlear implants globally. Cochlear 
has a dominant position in cochlear implants and accounts for most cochlear implant 
sales in Australia.  
81. 
As stated in the ACCC’s Merger Guidelines, while some firms may be relatively small 
in terms of size and market share, they may nevertheless have a significant influence 
on the competitiveness of the market. Mergers involving such firms may result in 


Page 15 of 16 
 
unilateral effects by impeding or removing significant aspects of competition, such as 
innovation or product development.5  
82. 
Oticon Medical entered the supply of cochlear implants in 2013. Market feedback 
indicates that Oticon Medical is a smaller manufacturer and supplier of cochlear 
implants in Australia. Its sales may have been adversely affected by an October 2021 
product recall and temporary halt in new sales of its Neuro Zti brand of cochlear 
implants.6  Nevertheless, the ACCC is considering whether Oticon Medical may 
provide an important competitive constraint both now and in the future, including on 
innovation and research and development.   
83. 
The ACCC is also considering the extent of the competitive constraint from the 
remaining suppliers, Med-El and Sonova. Both companies currently have low sales 
volumes in Australia, but are the second and third largest competitors to Cochlear 
globally.   
84. 
The ACCC is considering the potential for either or both companies to expand 
Australian sales. To the extent Med-El and/or Sonova have a larger presence in 
overseas jurisdictions the ACCC will consider whether this may assist expansion in 
Australia given economies of scale and the global nature of research and development 
and production supply-chains for these devices.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to cochlear 
implants. In particular: 
• 
How important will Oticon Medical likely be in the future as a supplier of cochlear 
implants, if the proposed acquisition does not proceed?  
• 
Has Oticon Medical demonstrated a greater degree of innovation and investment in 
research and development for cochlear implants (relative to other suppliers)? 
• 
How closely do Med-EI and Sonova (Advanced Bionics) compete with Cochlear in the 
supply of cochlear implants? Consider factors such as price, quality, service levels, 
functionality, innovation, and research and development.  
• 
What role does the Prostheses List play in price competition for the supply of cochlear 
implants by manufacturers? Does this differ between private and public hospital systems 
or other channels of supply, if so, how? 
• 
Has Oticon Medical’s 2021 recall of its Neuro Zti cochlear devices impacted its ability to 
compete at present for sales of its cochlear implants? Has it had any impact of Oticon 
Medical’s reputation? How common are recalls in the supply of cochlear implants, and 
other hearing technologies?  
ACCC's future steps 
85. 
As noted above, the ACCC invites submissions from market participants on each of 
the issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that may be 
relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. Submissions should be emailed to 
mergers@accc.gov.au by no later than 22 December 2022. 
 
5 ACCC, Merger Guidelines 2008 (updated 2017), paragraph 5.11.   
6 https://www.productsafety.gov.au/recalls/oticon-medical-a-division-of-audmet-australia-pty-ltd-%E2%80%94-
the-neuro-zti-evo-and-cla-cochlear-implants  


Page 16 of 16 
 
86. 
The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions invited by 
this Statement of Issues. 
87. 
The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 16 March 2023. However, the 
anticipated timeline may change in line with the Informal Merger Review Process 
Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment explaining the ACCC's final view may 
be published following the ACCC's public announcement. 
