 
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
tel: (02) 6243 1368 
mergers@accc.gov.au
www.accc.gov.au
Our ref: IM-71368 
Contact officer: Braeden Smith / Sophia Liu 
 
Contact phone: (02) 6243 4936 / (03) 9290 1437  
7 October 2021 
Dear Interested Party 
Re:  Request for submissions: Sydney Aviation Alliance’s proposed 
acquisition of Sydney Airport 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
the proposed acquisition of Sydney Airport Limited and Sydney Airport Trust 1 (together 
Sydney Airport) by the Sydney Aviation Alliance consortium (the proposed acquisition). 
Sydney Airport supplies a range of aviation services, the Sydney Aviation Alliance is a 
consortium of investment funds invested in a range of infrastructure assets, including other 
airports in Australia. Further details are provided at Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact on competition.  In particular, we are 
seeking your views on: 
• 
Competition in the provision of services for airlines, passengers and other users of 
airport services’ 
• 
The impact of cross ownership between multiple airports, and how this acquisition in 
particular may impact those dynamics 
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
Please provide your response by 28 October 2021 via email with the title: Submission re: 
Proposed acquisition of Sydney Airport – attention Braeden Smith / Sophia Liu. If you 
require more time to respond, please let us know. 
If you would like to arrange a time to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any 
questions about this letter, please contact Braeden Smith on (02) 6243 4936 or Sophia Liu 


on (03) 9290 1437. 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public 
Mergers Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC treats sensitive information it receives during a merger review as confidential, and will 
not publish your submission. We will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our 
advisors/consultants) unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information 
legislation or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition and 
Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, we will notify 
you in advance where possible so that you have an opportunity to be heard. Therefore please 
clearly indicate if any information you provide is confidential. Our Informal Merger Review Process 
Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
Daniel McCracken-Hewson 
General Manager  
Merger Investigations  
 
 


 
Attachment A 
 
The proposed acquisition 
 
The Sydney Aviation Alliance proposes to acquire 100 per cent of the securities in 
Sydney Airport (comprising the shares in Sydney Airport Limited ACN 165 056 360) 
and units in Sydney Airport Trust 1 ARSN 099 597 921, which are stapled to each 
other and traded on the ASX.  
 
If the acquisition proceeds,  it is expected that IFM Australian Infrastructure Fund 
(IFM AIF), AustralianSuper, QSuper, Conyers Trust Company (Cayman) Limited as 
trustee for IFM Global Infrastructure Fund and UniSuper will hold minority interests 
ranging from 7.5% to 18%.  Global Infrastructure Partners (GIP) (on behalf of its 
managed funds and clients) is expected to have a greater than 20% interest in the 
consortium. 
 
The ACCC understands that there are typically two broad categories of services 
acquired from airports: aeronautical services and non-aeronautical services. In 
reviewing this transaction, the ACCC is particularly interested to understand the level 
of competition Sydney Airport faces for these different categories of services, and 
whether the proposed acquisition itself will impact that competition. 
 
The Sydney Aviation Alliance 
 
The Sydney Aviation Alliance is comprised of the following entities: 
 
• 
IFM AIF is a perpetual open ended Australian infrastructure investment fund 
managed by IFM, an investor owned Australian investment manager. IFM 
AIF’s investments include Australian infrastructure with a current portfolio 
spanning airports, seaports, electricity distribution assets, toll roads and 
infrastructure. IFM AIF has holdings in nine airports in Australia including 
Melbourne (25.17%), Brisbane (20.01%), Adelaide (12.8%), Darwin (77.4%), 
Perth (3.2%), Alice Springs and Tennant Creek (77.4%), Launceston (22.7%) 
and Parafield (12.8%). 
• 
AustralianSuper Pty Ltd as trustee of AustralianSuper is Australia’s largest 
superannuation fund, managing approximately $230 billion. AustralianSuper 
has over $24 billion invested in infrastructure globally including interests in 
NSW Ports, Ausgrid, WestConnex, Transurban Queensland and a 5.25 per 
cent direct interest in Perth Airport.  
• 
QSuper Board as trustee for QSuper is an Australian profit for members' 
superannuation fund that has more than $10 billion invested in global 
infrastructure assets. This includes investments in Heathrow, Edinburgh and 
Brisbane Airports, as well as Australian infrastructure assets such as the Port 
of Brisbane, NSW Ports and Lochard Energy. 
• 
Conyers Trust Company (Cayman) Limited as trustee for IFM Global 
Infrastructure Fund,  a perpetual, open ended Cayman Islands unit trust 
invested in core infrastructure assets.  
• 
GIP is an independent infrastructure fund manager. GIP has made 
investments in a number of Australian infrastructure assets including the Port 
of Melbourne, Pacific National, the QCLNG Common Facilities, GLNG 
Infrastructure and the Port of Brisbane. 
 
UniSuper is not part of the Sydney Aviation Alliance consortium. However, it is 
anticipated that UniSuper, as a current shareholder in Sydney Airport, will maintain 
its equivalent shareholding in the new entity post acquisition. UniSuper is an industry 
super fund with more than $100 billion of funds under management. As well as its 


existing interest in Sydney Airport, it also has a 6.98 per cent interest in Brisbane 
Airport and a 49 per cent interest in Adelaide Airport.  
 
Sydney Airport 
 
Sydney Airport is a stapled entity on the ASX, it holds 100 per cent of the economic 
interest in Sydney (Kingsford Smith) Airport through its operating subsidiaries. 
Sydney Airport operates three passenger terminals and seven cargo terminals. The 
services that Sydney Airport provides in operation of those terminals include: 
 
• 
Aeronautical services, including access to terminals, infrastructure, apron 
parking, airfield and terminal facilities 
• 
Leasing of retail outlets across its terminals 
• 
Leasing of buildings and facilities across the airport which are used for airline 
lounges, hotels, freights hubs and car rental 
• 
Operation of passenger and staff car parks located around its terminals, and 
manages ground transport services including taxis, busses and limousines. 
 
 
 
 
 


Attachment B 
1. Please describe your business or organisation and explain your interest in the 
proposed acquisition, including any commercial relationship(s) with Sydney 
Airport or the consortium members of the Sydney Aviation Alliance. 
Aeronautical services 
2. Please identify and describe the types of aeronautical services you procure from 
Sydney Airport. In answering this question, please also identify whether Sydney 
Airport: 
a. faces competition from other airports for these aeronautical services, if so, 
please identify the airports it competes with 
b. faces competition from other non-airport competitors for these 
aeronautical services, if so, please identify these competitors. 
3. Please describe the process for procuring these aeronautical services, in 
answering this question, please provide information on, for example: 
a. how you determine whether you will acquire these services, 
b. how you determine which provider you will acquire the services from 
including the factors you take into account, and 
c. how you purchase these services, e.g., do you use competitive tenders or 
some other process. 
4. Please describe whether the cross ownership of airports in Australia impacts the 
procurement of aeronautical services. Will any increase in cross ownership due 
to the proposed acquisition have any additional impact? Please provide details. 
5. To the extent that Sydney Airport faces competition for the aeronautical services 
that you acquire, describe how you would respond if it increased prices by 5 to 10 
per cent, or decreased quality or service levels post acquisition. 
Non-aeronautical services 
6. Please identify and describe the types of non-aeronautical services you procure 
from Sydney airport. In answering this question, please also identify whether 
Sydney Airport: 
a. faces competition from other airports for these non-aeronautical services, 
if so, please identify the airports it competes with 
b. faces competition from other non-airport competitors for these non-
aeronautical services, if so, please identify these competitors. 
7. Please describe the process for procuring these non-aeronautical services, in 
answering this question, please provide information on, for example: 
a. how you determine whether you will acquire these services, 
b. how you determine which provider you will acquire the services from 
including the factors you take into account, and 


c. how you purchase these services, e.g., do you use competitive tenders or 
some other process? 
8. To the extent that Sydney Airport faces competition for the non-aeronautical 
services that you acquire, describe how you would respond if it increased prices 
by 5 to 10 per cent, or decreased quality or service levels post acquisition. 
Other 
9. 
Please provide any additional information or comments that you consider relevant to 
the ACCC’s consideration of the proposed acquisition under section 50 of the Act. 
