Page 1 of 26 
 
Statement of Issues 
13 March 2025 
DP World Australia Limited’s proposed acquisition of Silk 
Logistics Holdings Limited   
Purpose 
1. DP World Australia Limited (DP World Australia) proposes to acquire 100% of 
the ordinary shares in Silk Logistics Holdings Limited (Silk) by means of a 
scheme of arrangement (the proposed acquisition). 
2. This Statement of Issues: 
• 
gives the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission’s (ACCC) 
preliminary views on competition issues arising from the proposed 
acquisition,  
• 
identifies areas of further inquiry, and 
• 
invites interested parties to submit comments and information to assist 
the ACCC’s assessment of the issues. 
3. Statements of Issues do not refer to confidential information provided by the 
parties or other market participants and therefore may not fully articulate the 
ACCC’s preliminary position. 
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views 
4. In considering the proposed acquisition, the ACCC applies the legal test set out 
in section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the CCA). In general 
terms, section 50 prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely 
to have the effect, of substantially lessening competition in any market. 
5. The ACCC divides its preliminary views into three categories, 'issues of 
concern', 'issues that may raise concerns' and ‘issues unlikely to raise 
concerns’. In this Statement of Issues there are two ‘issues of concern’ and one 
‘issue that may raise concerns’.  


DP World Australia – proposed acquisition of Silk Logistics 
Page 2 of 26 
Issues of concern 
6. Discrimination against rival container transport providers by increasing 
charges or worsening the quality of terminal services – The ACCC’s 
preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is likely to substantially lessen 
competition in the supply of container transport services by providing DP World 
Australia with the ability and incentive to increase charges and/or worsen the 
quality of terminal services provided to Silk’s rivals at each of the Ports of 
Melbourne, Botany (Sydney), Brisbane and Fremantle (together, the Relevant 
Ports). Foreclosing suppliers of container transport services is likely to result in 
higher prices or reduced service quality for cargo owners.  
7. Below-cost conditional discounts that have an exclusionary effect on rival 
container transport providers – Post-acquisition, DP World Australia may have 
the ability and incentive to offer discounts that are conditional on the combined 
procurement of container transport services and stevedoring services by cargo 
owners and freight forwarders (as an ‘effective bundle’).1 Such a discount is of 
concern if it amounts to a below-cost offer on the container transportation 
portion of the effective bundle. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that a below-
cost conditional discounting strategy is likely to have the effect of foreclosing 
non-integrated rival container transport providers from competing effectively, 
enabling DP World Australia to raise prices above the competitive level once 
the competitive constraint provided by rival container transport providers has 
been removed.  
Issue that may raise concerns  
8. Access to commercially sensitive information – The ACCC understands that 
the proposed acquisition may provide Silk access to commercially sensitive 
information about its rivals’ operations and customers. The ACCC considers 
that information on cargo owners and freight forwarders, their volumes and 
delivery routes may provide a competitive advantage to target or undercut rival 
container transport providers. The ACCC is also considering whether the 
proposed acquisition may provide DP World Australia (and its indirect parent 
entity, DP World Limited) access to commercially sensitive information about 
Silk’s customers, some of which compete with DP World Limited as freight 
forwarders. In assessing these issues, the ACCC will have regard to whether 
access to commercially sensitive information may facilitate coordination 
between the merger parties and their rivals in the container supply chain.  
9. The ACCC notes its assessment will consider the 3 issues as occurring 
independently and/or in combination with each other.  
 
 
1 The ACCC refers to this as an ‘effective bundle’ of container services provided by DP World Australia and Silk to cargo 
owners and freight forwarders. Bundling typically refers to conduct where two or more products are offered at a single 
price to a single customer. As stevedore terminal services and container transport services are offered to different parts 
of the supply chain (see Industry Background), cargo owners and freight forwarders are likely to be beneficiaries of an 
‘effective bundle’ where discounts flow through to them by arranging for their containers to be processed at DP World 
Australia’s terminals.  


DP World Australia – proposed acquisition of Silk Logistics 
Page 3 of 26 
Making a submission 
10. The ACCC invites submissions from interested parties, particularly on the 
following key issues: 
• 
The extent to which DP World Australia would have the ability and 
incentive to foreclose rival container transport providers at any of the 
Relevant Ports, the practical ways this behaviour could occur, and the 
competitive and economic impact on rival container transport providers. 
• 
The ability and incentive for DP World Australia to offer below-cost 
conditional discounts to cargo owners and freight forwarders, and the 
competitive and economic impact on rival container transport providers. 
• 
DP World Australia and Silk’s access to, and use of, commercially 
sensitive information and any subsequent competitive impact on 
participants in the container supply chain. 
• 
Whether the proposed acquisition would result in a loss of competition 
at any other level of the container supply chain.  
11. Interested parties should provide submissions by 5pm on 27 March 2025. 
Responses may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: Submission 
re: DP World Australia’s proposed acquisition of Silk Logistics.  
12. The ACCC anticipates making a final decision on 5 June 2025, however, this 
timeline can change. To keep up with possible timing changes and to find 
relevant documents, interested parties should visit the Mergers Register on the 
ACCC's website at www.accc.gov.au/publicregisters/mergers-registers/public-
informal-merger-reviews. 
Confidentiality of submissions 
13. The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. 
The ACCC will not disclose submissions to third parties (except its 
advisors/consultants) unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of 
information legislation or during court proceedings) or in accordance with 
s155AAA of the CCA. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where possible so that you 
may have an opportunity to be heard. Therefore, please identify any 
confidential information that is provided to the ACCC. Our Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’ 
14. A Statement of Issues is not a final decision about a proposed acquisition. A 
Statement of Issues outlines the ACCC’s preliminary views and identifies 
further lines of inquiry. 
15. A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties 
(including customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to 
ascertain and consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also 


DP World Australia – proposed acquisition of Silk Logistics 
Page 4 of 26 
intended to provide the merger parties and other interested parties with the 
basis for making further submissions should they consider it necessary. 
The parties  
DP World Australia 
16. DP World Australia provides port and general logistics services. Its main 
business is the provision of container stevedoring services and operation of 
container terminals at each of the Ports of Melbourne, Botany (Sydney), 
Brisbane and Fremantle (as defined above, together the Relevant Ports).  
17. In addition to its stevedoring services, DP World Australia: 
a. operates an empty container park in each of the areas surrounding the 
Ports of Brisbane, Melbourne and Botany, 
b. has a 50% interest in a vehicle booking system, OneStop (with Patrick 
Container Terminals owning the other 50%) that container transport 
providers use for the purpose of collecting/delivering containers at several 
Australian ports. At the Ports of Brisbane and Melbourne, DP World 
Australia currently uses a new OneStop booking system (OptiBook), and 
c. operates a limited fleet of container transport trucks in Melbourne and 
Sydney. For the purposes of the Statement of Issues, and because each of 
DP World Australia and Silk only provide transport services for containers 
via road, container transport providers refer exclusively to road container 
transport providers (i.e. excluding rail transport).  
18. DP World Australia is an indirect subsidiary of DP World Limited (DPW), 
Investcorp Corsair Infrastructure Partners and Caisse de depot et placement 
du Quebec. DPW holds the majority of voting rights in the subsidiary that owns 
DP World Australia. DPW provides freight forwarding and contract logistics 
services in Australia. 
Silk  
19. Silk is an ASX listed (ASX:SLH) port-to-door services provider offering 
warehousing, distribution and port logistics services. It operates 46 facilities 
across New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia and Western 
Australia.  
20. The ACCC understands that Silk is one of the only national door-to-door logistic 
providers in Australia.  
21. Silk’s operations are categorised into 2 divisions: 
a. port logistics: road transport of import and export containers to and from 
ports in Australia, in addition to ancillary services (such as fumigation, 
quarantine inspection, packing/unpacking services). The ACCC 


DP World Australia – proposed acquisition of Silk Logistics 
Page 5 of 26 
understands that in FY24, Silk transported approximately 332,000 
containers between major Australian ports and various facilities2, and 
b. contract logistics: warehousing and distribution services. Warehousing 
services relate to receiving containerised freight, unpacking it, palletising it, 
storing it and then packing and dispatching it to the final destination. 
Distribution services refer to the transportation of goods from warehouses 
to delivery points, such as retail premises, factories or households. 
Industry background 
Container logistics supply chain 
22. The container logistics supply chain is comprised of: 
a. cargo owners: importers or exporters who contract directly with: 
i. shipping lines for the transportation of containerised freight by sea 
vessel,  
ii. container transport providers for the transportation of containerised 
freight from (to) ports to (from) a customer’s selected destination, 
typically a warehouse for unpacking or packing freight, and  
iii. other logistics services providers for ancillary services such as 
distribution, warehousing and container packing/unpacking,  
b. freight forwarders: act on behalf of cargo owners and contract directly with 
shipping lines, container transport providers and other logistics services 
providers,  
c. container transport providers: 
i. road container transport providers: are contracted by cargo owners or 
freight forwarders to transport containerised freight by road between 
the cargo owners’ place of business/packing location and the port. 
Container transport providers pay fees to access and use a container 
stevedore’s terminals, for the purpose of collecting or delivering 
containers to a port. These include booking and access fees, in addition 
to other discretionary fees charged by a container stevedore, such as 
late and early arrival fees. 
Shipping lines also use container transport providers to collect empty 
containers from empty container parks and deliver them to export 
customers. Container transport providers pay access charges to collect 
or drop off empty containers at these parks, 
ii. rail container transport providers: cargo owners and freight forwarders 
may also elect to transport containerised freight by rail. If rail 
 
 
2 Silk ASX Announcement (23 December 2024), p. 114, accessed 5 March 2023 


DP World Australia – proposed acquisition of Silk Logistics 
Page 6 of 26 
infrastructure is available, containerised freight may be transported 
either directly to the container terminal or utilising an intermodal freight 
solution. For the remainder of the Statement of Issues, container 
transport providers refer exclusively to providers who transport 
containers via road, and does not incorporate rail container transport 
providers, 
d. container stevedores: are responsible for lifting containers on and off 
container ships at a port. Container stevedores charge fees to shipping 
lines for loading and unloading their vessels and for storing containers, if 
longer than an initial free storage period. As discussed above, they also levy 
terminal access charges on container transport providers to book slots for 
container collections/drop offs via a vehicle booking system, 
e. shipping lines: are contracted by cargo owners and freight forwarders to 
transport their cargo in shipping containers. Shipping lines contract 
container stevedores to load and unload vessels, and empty container park 
operators to store empty containers (that are owned by the shipping line),  
f. empty container park operators: enter leases for land (with the relevant 
port authority if the park is located within the port precinct). They charge 
access fees to container transport providers to collect/drop off empty 
containers and charge storage fees to shipping lines for storing their empty 
containers. Empty container parks use vehicle booking systems, like 
OneStop, to coordinate the collection and drop off of containers. Cargo 
owners and freight forwarders choose which shipping line they will use, 
which in turn determines the empty container park they will use. The 
container transport provider is then required to go to the designated empty 
container park to pick up, or drop off, containers. The ACCC understands 
that there are numerous independent operators of empty container parks 
proximate to each of the Relevant Ports, and 
g. vehicle booking systems: online software tools that enable container 
transport providers to book a time to pick up or drop off a container at a 
terminal. Vehicle booking systems are also used to coordinate the 
collection and drop off of containers at empty container parks. Relevantly, 
OneStop, the vehicle booking system equally owned by DP World Australia 
and Patrick Container Terminals, is used at each of the Relevant Ports and 
empty container parks around Australia. The ACCC understands that 
pursuant to DP World Australia’s National Terminal Carrier Access Terms 
and Conditions, all container transport providers must use OneStop to 
access DP World Australia’s container terminals. These terms and 
conditions set out the access terms to DP World Australia’s container 
terminals, and the requirements for a container to be able to be collected or 
delivered to a terminal. Specifically:   
i. 
import containers are classified as ‘ready’ for collection when they 
have been unloaded from a ship at the terminal and are clear of all 
relevant industry impediments, and 


DP World Australia – proposed acquisition of Silk Logistics 
Page 7 of 26 
ii. for export containers, a container is accepted once the exporter 
enters the export declaration and the pre-receival advice has been 
accepted at the terminal.  
23. Below is a diagram summarising the movement of containers along the supply 
chain and the typical commercial relationships between key parties. The blue 
boxes refer to parts of the supply chain at the port precinct.  
Figure 1: Container logistics supply chain 
 
Source: ACCC container stevedoring monitoring report 2023-24: Figure 1.3.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


DP World Australia – proposed acquisition of Silk Logistics 
Page 8 of 26 
Relevant Ports 
Port of Melbourne 
24. Port of Melbourne is Australia’s largest container and general cargo port and 
handles all of Victoria’s containerised freight. In FY24, the throughput at the 
Port of Melbourne was approximately 3 million twenty-foot equivalent units 
(TEUs).3 The Port of Melbourne is managed by a consortium of investors under 
a 50-year lease. There are three container stevedores based at the Port of 
Melbourne, which are DP World Australia, Patrick Container Terminals and the 
Victoria International Container Terminal (VICT).  
Port Botany (Sydney) 
25. Port Botany is the second largest container port in Australia and the largest in 
New South Wales. In FY24, the throughput at Port Botany was approximately 
2.8 million TEUs.4 NSW Ports manages landside tenant leases and port 
infrastructure under a 99-year lease from the New South Wales Government. 
There are three container stevedores based at Port Botany which are DP World 
Australia, Patrick Container Terminals and Hutchison Ports Australia 
(Hutchison).  
Port of Brisbane 
26. Port of Brisbane is the third largest port in Australia and the largest in 
Queensland. In FY24, the throughput at the Port of Brisbane was approximately 
1.7 million TEUs.5 The port is managed by a private consortium under a 99-year 
lease. There are three container stevedores based at the Port of Brisbane 
which are DP World Australia, Patrick Container Terminals and Hutchison.  
Port of Fremantle 
27. Port of Fremantle is the fourth largest container port in Australia and the 
largest in Western Australia. In FY24, the throughput at the Port of Fremantle 
was approximately 850,000 TEUs.6 The port is owned and managed by the 
Western Australian Government. Only DP World Australia and Patrick Container 
Terminals supply container stevedoring services at this port. 
Access Regulation 
28. Stevedore and landside logistics operators are regulated through a mix of 
national, state and industry regulatory frameworks.  
 
 
 
 
3 ACCC container stevedoring monitoring report 2023-24: Supplementary tables, accessed 4 March 2025 
4 ACCC container stevedoring monitoring report 2023-24: Supplementary tables, accessed 4 March 2025 
5 ACCC container stevedoring monitoring report 2023-24: Supplementary tables, accessed 4 March 2025 
6 ACCC container stevedoring monitoring report 2023-24: Supplementary tables, accessed 4 March 2025 


DP World Australia – proposed acquisition of Silk Logistics 
Page 9 of 26 
Port specific regulatory frameworks 
29. At Port Botany, the Port Botany Landside Operations Mandatory Standards7 
regulate stevedore conduct. The mandatory standards require stevedores to 
make a minimum number of slots available to all container transport providers, 
to perform services within the applicable truck turnaround times and regulate 
conduct with respect to slot allocation.    
30. At the Port of Melbourne, stevedore terminal access fees and performance are 
regulated under the Victorian Government’s Voluntary Port Performance 
Model. The model is comprised of a Voluntary Pricing Protocol (VPP) which 
requires stevedores to provide advance notice and reasons for the increase or 
introduction of any pricing change. DP World Australia, Patrick Container 
Terminals and VICT have publicly expressed their commitment to follow the 
VPP and have been providing notices to industry in line with it.8 As part of the 
model, a Voluntary Performance Monitoring Framework has also been 
developed and landside supply chain performance is reported via the Voluntary 
Performance Monitoring Framework Dashboard. 
31. The ACCC is continuing to consider the extent to which regulations and DP 
World Australia’s contracts/leases with the relevant port authorities may 
maintain non-discriminatory access for third party container transport 
providers to DP World Australia’s container terminals post-acquisition.   
National voluntary guidelines for landside stevedore charges 
32. In addition to port specific regulatory frameworks, the National Transport 
Commission has developed a national voluntary guideline for terminal access 
fees (referred to as landside stevedore charges in the guidelines) (NVG). The 
NVG states that terminal access fees will only be changed once per year and 
requires stevedores to issue a Notice of Intention to the relevant authority (as 
well as publish it on their website) 60 calendar days before introducing or 
increasing its fees. Stevedores are also required to publish a Final 
Confirmation Notice of changes on their website 30 calendar days prior to the 
proposed date of implementation. The NVG is modelled on the Victorian VPP. 
The ACCC understands Victoria is continuing to apply its own VPP due to the 
consistency between the two guidelines and its additional information 
provisions.9  
DP World’s National Terminal Carrier Access Terms and Conditions 
33. DP World Australia has also developed its own National Terminal Carrier 
Access Terms and Conditions which detail how a third-party container 
transport provider can access its container terminals. The ACCC is considering 
the effectiveness of these access terms as a form of self-regulation to prevent 
 
 
7 Set by the New South Wales Minister under the authority of the Ports and Maritime Administrate Regulation 2021, Part 
6. 
8 State Government of Victoria, Voluntary Pricing Protocol, accessed 12 March 2025.   
9 State Government of Victoria, ‘Voluntary Pricing Protocol’ 2 December 2024, accessed 24 February 2025. 


DP World Australia – proposed acquisition of Silk Logistics 
Page 10 of 26 
DP World Australia from discriminating against rival container transport 
providers post-acquisition.  
ACCC’s container stevedoring monitoring reports  
34. The ACCC is responsible for monitoring the container stevedoring sector in 
Australia, with a focus on the degree of competition between container 
stevedores, whether the container stevedores’ returns are indicative of 
excessive pricing, the level of investment by the container stevedores and other 
port operators, and the degree of productivity and efficiency at Australian 
container ports. The ACCC’s monitoring program commenced in 1999, 
publishing annual reports that discuss the state of the industry.   
35. The ACCC’s most recent container stevedoring monitoring report (published in 
December 2024) outlined that container stevedores have significantly 
increased the terminal access fees to container transport providers. The ACCC 
also reported that there is limited competition between container stevedores in 
respect of these fees and that reforms may be necessary to improve efficiency 
in the supply of container stevedoring and empty container park services.  
The proposed transaction 
36. DP World Australia proposes to acquire 100% of the ordinary shares in Silk by 
means of a scheme of arrangement.  
37. Pursuant to the proposed acquisition, Silk would be removed from the ASX and 
subsequently converted into a proprietary company limited by shares.  
Future with and without the acquisition  
38. In assessing a proposed acquisition under section 50 of the CCA, the ACCC 
considers the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future state of 
competition if the acquisition proceeds (the ’with’ position) to the likely future 
state of competition if the acquisition does not proceed (the ‘without’ position) 
to determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to substantially lessen 
competition in any relevant market. 
39. The ACCC considers that the likely future competitive environment without the 
proposed acquisition would be the status quo. That is, Silk would continue to 
operate as a non-integrated container transport provider in the container supply 
chain. 
 
 
 


DP World Australia – proposed acquisition of Silk Logistics 
Page 11 of 26 
Previous ACCC decisions   
Consortium comprising Brookfield and Qube’s proposed acquisition of Asciano 
(not opposed)  
40. On 21 July 2016, the ACCC decided not to oppose the acquisition of Asciano by 
a consortium comprising Brookfield (and certain of its affiliates), Qube and 
other investors. The proposed acquisition involved a complicated transaction 
structure in which different consortium members proposed to acquire different 
segments of the Asciano business. 
41. Relevantly, Qube, Brookfield and three other Consortium members proposed to 
acquire Patrick Container Terminals from Asciano.10 At the time, Asciano held 
a 50 per cent interest in Australian Container Freight Services (ACFS) which, 
like Qube, supplied container transport services. In a Statement of Issues 
published in May 2016, the ACCC expressed a number of concerns with the 
proposed acquisition, including that the acquisition would align Patrick 
Container Terminals with Qube and ACFS, the two largest suppliers of 
container transport services in Australia.  
42. The ACCC analysed whether this proposed acquisition would give Patrick 
Container Terminals, as a container stevedore, an increased ability and 
incentive to discriminate against Qube and ACFS’ rivals. In this respect, the 
ACCC noted that:   
a. container stevedores generally have the ability to influence the operations 
of, and competition between container transport providers. This could be 
done by offering preferential access to affiliated trucks or by charging rival 
container transport providers higher fees,  
b. it is unclear whether container stevedores vertically integrated with a 
container transport provider have the incentive to discriminate against rival 
container transport providers. For example, the margin for container 
stevedoring services is higher than for container transport services. In the 
event that discriminatory conduct jeopardised a container stevedore’s 
throughput, this would reduce the incentive to discriminate, and 
c. market feedback noted that discriminatory conduct would not necessarily 
jeopardise a container stevedore’s throughput (i.e. through a shipping line 
switching to a different container stevedore). Market participants noted 
that landside efficiency and equal treatment of container transport 
providers was only a secondary factor in a shipping lines’ choice of 
stevedore, behind pricing, berthing window availability and port-side 
efficiency. Therefore, if discrimination was to occur, it may not discourage 
shipping lines from continuing to use Patrick Container Terminals.  
43. Following the publication of the Statement of issues, Asciano announced that 
its 50 per cent interest in ACFS would be sold to a separate third party. 
Consequently, the ACCC concluded that the partial vertical integration between 
 
 
10 This excluded Asciano’s 50 per cent interest in ACFS Port Logistics Pty Ltd.  


DP World Australia – proposed acquisition of Silk Logistics 
Page 12 of 26 
Patrick Container Terminals and Qube was not likely to substantially lessen 
competition for the following reasons:  
a. prior to the acquisition, Patrick Container Terminals was already vertically 
integrated (to a degree) with ACFS and as part of this transaction, ACFS’s 
commercial relationship with Patrick Container Terminals would be 
replaced by Qube,  
b. Qube would have a 50% ownership interest in Patrick Container Terminals, 
with the remaining interests being owned by Brookfield. The ACCC 
considered that Brookfield’s 50% interest in Patrick Container Terminals 
would limit Qube’s ability to preference its container transport businessas 
Brookfield might not consent to discriminatory conduct, and 
c. the ACCC considered that the vertical integration between major 
stevedores and container transport providers had not historically given rise 
to discriminatory conduct that damaged the viability of competitors. 
Relevant areas of competition  
44. The ACCC is considering the effect of the proposed acquisition in markets for 
the supply of:  
a. container stevedore services at each of the Relevant Ports, 
b. container transport services to and from each of the Relevant Ports,  
c. empty container park services at or near each of the Ports of Melbourne, 
Botany and Brisbane, and 
d. freight forwarding services for containerised freight to and from each of the 
Relevant Ports.  
Issue of concern: Discrimination against rival container 
transport providers by increasing charges or worsening the 
quality of terminal services   
45. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in the supply of container transport services 
by providing DP World Australia with the ability and incentive to foreclose rivals 
of Silk post-acquisition. The ACCC is concerned that such foreclosure could 
lessen competition, leading to higher prices or reduced service quality for 
cargo owners.   
46. The ACCC is considering two mechanisms by which DP World Australia could 
increase charges or worsen services to rival container transport providers: 
• 
DP World Australia’s container stevedoring business decreases the 
quality of terminal services or increases the charges at its container 
terminals for third party container transport providers, and/or 


DP World Australia – proposed acquisition of Silk Logistics 
Page 13 of 26 
• 
DP World Australia’s empty container park business decreases the 
quality of services or increases the charges at its empty container parks 
for third party container transport providers.  
47. Container transport providers utilise container stevedore terminals and empty 
container parks. In some circumstances, a container transport provider may be 
required to use both of DP World Australia’s empty container parks and its 
terminals. As a result, these two mechanisms could be conducted 
independently and/or in tandem.  
48. The ACCC intends to examine the potential for DP World Australia to engage in 
both price and non-price discrimination. The extent to which DP World 
Australia can engage in non-price discrimination is of particular interest to the 
ACCC, as reliability and timeliness of delivery of cargo is an important 
consideration to cargo owners when selecting providers in the container supply 
chain. The ACCC notes that non-price discrimination could include a strategy 
of bundling container stevedoring and container transport services and 
simultaneously decreasing the quality of the service provided to rival container 
transport providers. An effective bundle of container stevedoring and container 
transport services could also include below-cost conditional discounts. This 
scenario is discussed below as an “issue of concern”.  
Importance of DP World Australia’s terminals and empty container parks to container 
transport providers 
49. Market feedback indicates that DP World Australia’s terminals at each of the 
Relevant Ports are critical to the import and export of containerised freight, 
providing stevedoring services for a significant volume of containers.  
50. The ACCC understands that DP World Australia services approximately 35% of 
containers processed through the Relevant Ports (on average), although this 
share varies depending on the specific port, and is the second largest container 
stevedore in Australia (behind Patrick Container Terminals).11 Consequently, 
access to its terminals appear to be key for container transport providers to 
provide services to their customers (cargo owners and freight forwarders). This 
is supported by findings of the Productivity Commission which, in January 
2023, concluded that stevedores have exercised market power with respect to 
transport operators. 
51. Container transport providers are directed by their customers (cargo owners 
and freight forwarders) as to which container stevedore terminal to access to 
pick up or drop off containers. Market feedback indicates that the decision 
about which container stevedore terminal is used is made directly by shipping 
lines in their contracts with container stevedores. However, cargo owners and 
freight forwarders may be able to indirectly choose a container stevedore 
terminal through their:   
 
 
11 ACCC container stevedoring monitoring report 2023-24, p. 6, accessed 27 February 2025 


DP World Australia – proposed acquisition of Silk Logistics 
Page 14 of 26 
• 
choice of contracted shipping lines,12 or  
• 
influence over the terminal choice by contracted shipping lines. 
52. As such, cargo owners and freight forwarders can have regard to the container 
stevedore when selecting a shipping line. 
53. DP World Australia also operates empty container parks in the vicinity of the 
Ports of Melbourne, Botany and Brisbane. Like for container stevedoring, while 
shipping lines tend to contract with empty container parks, container transport 
providers must pay an access charge to enter and use an empty container 
park.  
Ability to foreclose rival container transport providers 
54. The ACCC is considering whether post-acquisition, DP World Australia is likely 
to have the ability to foreclose rival container transport providers. In assessing 
DP World Australia’s ability to foreclose, the ACCC intends to examine:  
• 
whether there are any practical constraints that would prevent DP World 
Australia from being able to engage in discriminatory conduct, including 
regulatory constraints and contractual arrangements with the relevant 
port authorities, 
• 
the extent to which cargo owners/freight forwarders would be inclined to 
process their containers at alternative container stevedores or empty 
container parks in response to discriminatory conduct by DP World 
Australia,  
• 
the extent to which cargo owners/freight forwarders are able to change 
container stevedores or empty container parks through their choice of, or 
influence over shipping lines, and 
• 
whether there are competitively effective and alternative container 
stevedores at each of the Relevant Ports, such that rival container 
stevedores could process the increased throughput if cargo 
owners/freight forwarders decided to switch.  
Ability to foreclose access to DP World Australia’s container terminals  
Consideration of practical constraints that may prevent DP World Australia from being 
able to engage in discriminatory conduct  
55. DP World Australia, along with Patrick Container Terminals, use (or will use) 
OptiBook, a new vehicle booking system within OneStop that is intended to 
provide transparent and timely terminal access to container transport 
providers. However, market feedback suggests that DP World Australia may be 
able to preference Silk outside the vehicle booking system by not using it or by 
 
 
12 Some shipping lines contract with multiple container stevedores at the same port. Therefore, in some circumstances, 
cargo owners/freight forwarders could indirectly switch containers stevedores without changing shipping lines, by 
utilising a different vessel service provided by the same shipping line.  


DP World Australia – proposed acquisition of Silk Logistics 
Page 15 of 26 
using the vehicle booking system to benefit Silk. For example, market feedback 
indicates that DP World Australia has the ability to allocate slots to container 
transport providers based on schedules determined by DP World Australia. 
56. DP World Australia also publishes its National Terminal Carrier Access Terms 
and Conditions. These are DP World Australia’s public undertaking to the 
transport carrier industry, that specify the terms and conditions (including 
access fees) by which all container transport providers can access its 
terminals. The ACCC understands that DP World Australia has the ability to 
unilaterally amend these terms. Market feedback suggests that the terms are 
unlikely to restrict DP World’s ability to increase charges and/or lower the 
quality of its terminal services to Silk’s rivals. The ACCC intends to further 
investigate the effectiveness of the National Terminal Carrier Access Terms. 
57. The ACCC is considering whether regulations and DP World Australia’s 
contracts/leases with the relevant port authorities effectively restrict DP World 
Australia from engaging in discriminatory conduct. However, market feedback 
suggests that current regulations are unlikely to materially limit DP World 
Australia’s ability to increase charges and/or lower the service quality at its 
terminals to rival container transport providers. We consider there is likely to be 
limited transparency where discriminatory conduct is subtle and/or involves 
non-price terms that may be difficult to readily detect.  
The extent to which cargo owners/freight forwarders would be inclined to switch 
58. In relation to cargo owners/freight forwarders, market feedback indicates that 
these parties primarily consider efficiency and cost in selecting a shipping line 
and container transport provider. If a cargo owner/freight forwarder is 
materially impacted by any change in cost or reduced efficiency associated 
with the transport of their cargo (through increased terminal fees charged to 
their transport provider or through delays in the transport of their cargo), this 
may encourage cargo owners/freight forwarders to indirectly switch container 
stevedores. As discussed above, this could be achieved by cargo 
owners/freight forwarders selecting a shipping line that calls at a different 
container stevedore terminal, or if possible, influencing the shipping line to 
choose a different terminal to call at.  
59. The ACCC understands that cargo owners may not necessarily switch in 
response to container stevedores increasing their terminal charges.  For 
example, container transport providers have faced sizeable and repeated 
increases in terminal fees by all container stevedores and at each of the 
Relevant Ports. The ACCC’s 2023-2024 Container Stevedoring Report noted 
that there are limited examples of cargo owners switching in response to 
stevedores’ increasing their charges to container transport providers. 
Importantly, however, these price increases were across all container 
stevedores. The ACCC intends to examine whether the switching behaviour of 
cargo owners/freight forwarders would differ when faced by a price increase at 
one container stevedore (i.e. DP World Australia).    
60. The ACCC also intends to examine the importance of non-price factors to 
cargo owners/freight forwarders, including reliability and timeliness of 
transport/delivery of cargo, and the extent to which these factors would impact 


DP World Australia – proposed acquisition of Silk Logistics 
Page 16 of 26 
the likelihood of a cargo owner/freight forwarder switching. In examining this 
issue, the ACCC will consider whether an effective bundle of container 
stevedore services and container transport services will impact a cargo owner 
or freight forwarder’s decision to switch shipping lines to use DP World 
Australia’s stevedore terminal. 
The extent to which cargo owners/freight forwarders are able to switch 
61. Cargo owners and freight forwarders may be restricted from switching if they 
are unable to find an economically competitive shipping line that uses a rival to 
DP World Australia’s container stevedoring business. The ACCC is having 
regard to the contractual arrangements in the container supply chain, available 
shipping lines and the impact this has on the ability of cargo owners and 
freight forwarders to switch to different providers in the container supply chain. 
DP World Australia’s existing relationships (including through its parent entity, 
DPW) and its supply of other container services to cargo owners and freight 
forwarders may also limit switching.  
Whether there are competitively effective and alternative container stevedores to DP 
World Australia 
62. The ACCC understands that container stevedores at the Relevant Ports have a 
degree of spare capacity. The ACCC intends to examine whether this spare 
capacity is sufficient such that cargo owners/freight forwarders are able to 
utilise different container stevedores in response to DP World Australia 
engaging in discriminatory conduct, or whether only a portion of cargo 
owners/freight forwarders would be able to effectively switch.  
Ability to foreclose rivals access to DP World Australia’s empty container parks  
63. The ACCC also intends to examine whether DP World Australia would have the 
ability to foreclose Silk’s rivals at its empty container parks. As discussed 
above, DP World Australia operates one empty container park proximate to 
each of the Ports of Melbourne, Botany and Brisbane. The ACCC understands 
that access fees and conditions for container transport providers are 
determined by the park operator. The ACCC intends to examine whether there 
are regulations which would prevent DP World Australia from being able to 
increase charges or worsen the service quality to Silk’s rivals post-acquisition.  
64. As for container stevedore services, shipping lines contract with empty 
container parks for the storage of their containers. Cargo owners/freight 
forwarders choose which shipping line they use, which in turn determines the 
empty container park they will direct container transport providers to access. 
Therefore, the ability of DP World Australia to discriminate against Silk’s rivals 
at its empty container parks depends on whether cargo owners/freight 
forwarders would be able to indirectly switch container parks through their 
choice of shipping line.  
65. The ACCC understands that there are multiple alternative empty container 
parks surrounding each of the Ports of Melbourne, Botany and Brisbane. These 
include empty container parks whose operators are vertically integrated with 
logistics and shipping line services suppliers, in addition to standalone 
operators.  


DP World Australia – proposed acquisition of Silk Logistics 
Page 17 of 26 
66. While the ACCC understands that the provision of empty container park 
services is relatively more fragmented than container stevedoring services, the 
ACCC will give further consideration to the degree of concentration in the 
supply of empty container park services. The ACCC will explore the extent to 
which DP World Australia has the ability, post-acquisition, to foreclose Silk’s 
rivals from its container terminals and jointly its empty container parks.  
Incentive to foreclose rival container transport providers 
Incentive to foreclose access to DP World Australia’s container terminals 
67. Market feedback suggests that DP World Australia may have the incentive to 
discriminate against Silk’s rivals either now or in the future. Market participants 
indicate that such a strategy may adversely impact DP World Australia’s profit 
(from its container stevedore service) in the short term through some terminal 
inefficiencies, but ultimately increase its integrated profit in the medium and 
long term through increasing Silk’s market share and integrated container 
throughput.  
68. The ACCC is considering the impact of any attempt to frustrate rival container 
transport providers on DP World Australia’s quayside and landside terminal 
efficiency. A reduction in terminal efficiency could lead to increased labour 
costs or may materially impact DP World Australia’s profit by causing shipping 
lines to switch to a rival container stevedore. The ACCC understands that 
container stevedoring operations have high fixed costs and higher relative 
margins than container transport services, and there may be an overriding 
incentive to increase terminal container throughput.  
69. Moreover, DP World Australia’s container stevedoring relies on shipping lines 
calling at their terminals, and efficiency is a relevant consideration for shipping 
lines when selecting a container stevedore. If a container stevedore’s quayside 
efficiency is materially impacted by discriminating against rival container 
transport providers, this may encourage shipping lines to call at competing 
terminals, and therefore limit DP World Australia’s incentive to engage in 
discriminatory conduct. Market feedback indicates that landside efficiency 
may be less important to shipping lines than other factors such as price and 
quayside efficiency. 
70. In relation to the potential for DP World Australia to engage in discriminatory 
conduct by way of worsening the quality of terminal services to rival container 
transport providers, the ACCC intends to examine whether such conduct would 
reduce DP World Australia’s quayside efficiency and therefore risk shipping 
lines calling at competing terminals. 
71. In relation to the potential for DP World Australia to engage in discriminatory 
conduct by way of raising charges to rival container transport providers, the 
ACCC is considering whether DP World Australia is likely to have an increased 
incentive to do this. As noted above, cargo owners switching container 
stevedores (indirectly) may be limited in response to container stevedores 
raising charges imposed onto container transport providers.  
72. The ACCC is considering the extent to which Silk would be able to increase its 
market share should DP World Australia engage in such a foreclosure strategy 


DP World Australia – proposed acquisition of Silk Logistics 
Page 18 of 26 
(i.e. whether Silk is in a position to increase its capacity to service additional 
container volumes and service cargo owners/freight forwarders that divert 
from its rivals).  
Incentive to foreclose access to DP World Australia’s empty container parks 
73. The ACCC is also considering whether DP World Australia would have an 
incentive to increase charges or worsen service quality at its empty container 
parks either alongside or independently of a strategy to foreclose Silk’s rivals 
access to its container terminals.  
74. Similar to the above, the ACCC considers that any forgone profits (from the 
loss of customers at DP World Australia’s empty container parks and the 
competitive response of Silk’s rivals) must be taken into account in assessing 
DP World Australia’s likely incentives.  
Competitive effect of discriminatory conduct 
75. Market feedback indicates that the adoption of a foreclosure strategy by DP 
World Australia, such as differential pricing or non-price discrimination against 
rival container transport providers, would prevent rivals from being able to 
effectively compete against Silk at those terminals. Specifically, the ACCC 
heard that rivals would gradually lose business as freight forwarders and cargo 
owners switch to Silk, and third party transport operators would subsequently 
be forced to exit the market.  
Questions for market participants  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to 
DP World Australia’s ability and incentive to foreclose competing container transport 
providers, including on the following: 
• 
The extent to which container stevedores’ charges to container transport 
providers can influence a freight forwarder’s/cargo owner’s choice of 
container stevedore (via selecting a shipping line).   
• 
What factors would influence DP World Australia’s ability and/or incentive to 
foreclose rival container transport providers by, for example: 
o increasing charges or worsening the quality of the services at DP 
World Australia’s container terminals?  
For example, the ACCC intends to examine whether such a 
foreclosure strategy would impact the efficiency of DP World 
Australia’s container terminals. In your response, please set out in 
detail how the factors you have identified would influence DP World 
Australia’s ability and/or incentive to foreclose rival container 
transport providers, and/or 
o increasing charges or worsening the quality of the services at DP 
World Australia’s empty container parks?  


DP World Australia – proposed acquisition of Silk Logistics 
Page 19 of 26 
In your response, please set out in detail how the factors you have 
identified would influence DP World Australia’s ability and/or 
incentive to foreclose rival container transport providers. In your 
response, please set out in detail how the factors you have identified 
would influence DP World Australia’s ability and/or incentive to 
foreclose rival container transport providers.  
• 
The extent to which existing regulation, access agreements or DP World 
Australia’s contracts/lease arrangements with the Relevant Ports would limit 
DP World Australia’s ability to engage in discriminatory conduct and 
foreclose rival container transport providers. 
• 
Examples of potential conduct (subtle or otherwise) that DP World Australia 
could engage in to discriminate against rival container transport providers.  
• 
The practical impact of the planned introduction of ‘OptiBook’ at DP World 
Australia’s terminals, which offers real-time booking options on the ability of 
a stevedore to adopt discriminatory conduct. 
• 
The likelihood of shipping lines switching container stevedores if DP World 
Australia was to foreclose rivals post-acquisition, including: 
o whether DP World Australia’s quayside efficiency would be impacted 
if it worsened access terms and conditions for non-affiliated 
container transport providers, and 
o whether a container stevedores’ quayside and landside efficiency are 
linked (and if not, why not).   
• 
The options available to freight forwarders/cargo owners should DP World 
Australia discriminate against rival container transport providers post-
acquisition, including:  
o whether freight forwarders/cargo owners would complain to or seek 
a resolution/redress via shipping lines,   
o whether freight forwarders/cargo owners would use an alternative 
shipping line that does not contract with DP World Australia for 
container stevedore services, and 
o any barriers (including the necessary time and costs) associated with 
a freight forwarder/cargo owner switching to different shipping lines 
and container transport providers. 
• 
The pricing of Silk’s container transport service offering in comparison to its 
rivals.  
• 
How rival container transport providers would act in response to being 
charged higher access fees or receiving worse access conditions at DP 
World Australia’s container terminals post-acquisition, including whether: 


DP World Australia – proposed acquisition of Silk Logistics 
Page 20 of 26 
o this would jeopardise the commercial viability of the container 
transport provider, and 
o the container transport provider could target freight forwarders/cargo 
owners that do not use DP World Australia as a container stevedore. 
Issue of concern: Below-cost conditional discounts that have 
an exclusionary effect on rival container transport providers 
76. Post-acquisition, DP World Australia may have the ability and incentive to offer 
discounts that are conditional on the combined procurement of Silk’s container 
transport services and DP World Australia’s stevedoring services by cargo 
owners and freight forwarders (as an ‘effective bundle’). Such a discount is of 
concern if it amounts to a below-cost offer on the container transportation 
portion of the effective bundle.  
77. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that a below-cost conditional discounting 
strategy is likely to have the effect of foreclosing non-integrated rival container 
transport providers from competing effectively, enabling DP World Australia to 
raise prices above the competitive level once the competitive constraint 
provided by rival container transport providers has been removed. Specifically, 
this conduct would involve:  
a. DP World Australia offering a discount to cargo owners and freight 
forwarders on the combined procurement of Silk’s container transport 
services and DP World Australia’s stevedoring terminals, and  
b. the discounted price being below an appropriate measure of Silk’s costs to 
supply the related container transportation services. 
78. The ACCC considers that while price discounts can be pro-competitive, below-
cost conditional discounts can have the effect of substantially lessening 
competition. This may occur over the longer term if non-integrated rival 
container transport providers are unable to compete effectively and DP World 
Australia is then able to raise prices above prevailing levels once rival providers 
become less of a competitive constraint.  
79. The ACCC’s consideration includes whether, post-acquisition, DP World 
Australia could, in effect, cross-subsidise its downstream container transport 
service with profits from its upstream stevedoring service. Such cross-
subsidisation is not available to non-integrated container transport service 
providers.  
80. The ACCC notes that exclusionary conduct can also occur through strategic 
and discriminatory offers of non-price terms, such as improved stevedore 
reliability and priority access. These non-price terms cannot be matched by 
rival container transport providers. The ACCC is assessing the issue of 
conditional discounts in combination with the issue of concern related to 
worsening terminal quality, where non-price discrimination is a focus. As such, 
when referring to below-cost conditional discounts, the ACCC is also 
considering any inclusion of beneficial non-price terms. 


DP World Australia – proposed acquisition of Silk Logistics 
Page 21 of 26 
DP World Australia’s increased influence in the container supply chain 
81. Market participants expressed concern that the proposed acquisition may be 
part of a broader DP World Australia strategy to influence and control more of 
the container supply chain. As part of this, market feedback indicates that DP 
World Australia may seek to bundle their services and offer anti-competitive 
discounts that influence cargo owners and freight forwarders to direct their 
containers to DP World Australia’s terminal and use Silk’s container transport 
services. Market participants were concerned that rival container transport 
providers would be unable to compete against discounted pricing offered by 
DP World Australia to cargo owners/freight forwarders, post-acquisition. 
82. As noted above, DP World Australia does not sell stevedore terminal services 
directly to cargo owners and freight forwarders. As such, in order to sell an 
‘effective bundle’ of container terminal and transport services to cargo owners 
and freight forwarders, the ACCC considers DP World Australia would need to: 
a. contract cargo owners or freight forwarders that already use shipping lines 
that call at DP World Australia’s container terminals to use Silk’s container 
transport services,  
b. influence cargo owners or freight forwarders (including vertically integrated 
freight forwarders and shipping lines) to use shipping lines that call at DP 
World Australia’s container terminals and contract cargo owners and 
freight forwarders to use Silk’s container transport services, and/or 
c. encourage DPW’s freight forwarding arm to select shipping lines that call at 
DP World Australia’s container terminals and use Silk’s container transport 
services for their Australian customers. 
83. The ACCC is considering whether the conduct and strategies outlined above 
are likely to be commercially practical and viable post-acquisition.  
84. The ACCC acknowledges a discounted effective bundle offered by DP World 
Australia post-acquisition may reflect the elimination of double-marginalisation 
and/or other efficiency gains arising from the vertical integration of DP World 
Australia’s terminal services and Silk’s container transport services. Efficiency 
gains may arise from eliminating duplicate functions, better coordination and 
reduced transaction costs. These may lead to lower overall costs and 
improved quality in the supply of container transport services. The ACCC is 
considering the specific efficiency gains likely to result from the proposed 
acquisition. To this end, the ACCC is concerned that, post-acquisition, DP World 
Australia is likely to have an incentive to offer discounted prices for container 
transport services that cannot fully be justified by the elimination of double 
marginalisation and potential efficiency gains, resulting in a below-cost price 
and exclusionary effect on competing transport providers. 
Ability to offer below-cost conditional discounts 
85. The ACCC is considering DP World Australia's ability, post-acquisition, to 
engage in a foreclosure strategy that involves offering below-cost conditional 
discounts. This includes considering DP World Australia’s ability to secure 
additional container transport capacity to handle container volumes diverted 


DP World Australia – proposed acquisition of Silk Logistics 
Page 22 of 26 
from rival container transport providers. This capacity could come from Silk’s 
existing capacity or from DP World Australia’s ability to expand Silk’s capacity 
after the proposed acquisition. The ACCC acknowledges that increasing 
capacity (e.g. trucks, yard space and stackers) poses practical challenges and 
requires corresponding financial resources. As a result, the ACCC proposes to 
evaluate the feasibility of offering below-cost conditional discounts based on 
whether DP World Australia can access sufficient transport capacity post-
acquisition. 
86. Silk contracts directly with cargo owners and freight forwarders. Post-
acquisition, a combined DP World Australia and Silk does not appear to have 
any contractual restrictions on it offering a discounted effective bundle to 
cargo owners and freight forwarders.  
87. In addition, the ACCC is also exploring whether DP World Australia can offer a 
discounted effective bundle directly to cargo owners via DPW’s freight 
forwarding services. As a freight forwarder, DPW may be able to offer such a 
bundle to cargo owners on behalf of DP World Australia by packaging shipping 
lines that call at DP World Australia’s terminals and Silk’s container transport 
services. 
88. The ACCC is considering whether there is any strong preference by cargo 
owners or freight forwarders for particular rival container transport providers 
that would constrain a discounted effective bundle from being effective in 
diverting significant container volume from rival providers.  
89. While market feedback indicates that cargo owners and freight forwarders are 
price sensitive, suggesting that some may switch to DP World Australia’s 
container transport services at its terminals, the ACCC also acknowledges that 
switching container transport services is not necessarily costless. Switching 
may come at the cost of forgoing economically preferred transport providers 
based on service quality and other non-price factors. Such preferences may 
mean limited diversion by cargo owners and freight forwarders from their 
preferred container transport provider(s) either at DP World Australia’s 
terminals or via alternative terminals, in the event that the preferred provider 
exits from DP World Australia’s terminals. 
Incentive to offer below-cost conditional discounts 
90. The ACCC is considering whether, post-acquisition, DP World Australia is likely 
to have the incentive to offer below-cost conditional discounts on its container 
transport services.  
91. This consideration includes whether it would be profitable for DP World 
Australia to engage in this conduct which could have the effect of excluding 
rival container transport providers from effectively competing and 
subsequently enable DP World Australia/Silk it to raise its container transport 
prices above prevailing levels once rivals exit the Relevant Ports or are 
significantly weakened.  
92. The ACCC considers the profitability of a below-cost conditional pricing 
strategy would likely depend on the: 


DP World Australia – proposed acquisition of Silk Logistics 
Page 23 of 26 
a. incremental profit DP World Australia may obtain from charging increased 
competitive transport price to cargo owners after rival providers have either 
lost competitive effectiveness or exited the Relevant Ports, and  
b. the upfront loss DP World Australia sustained from offering below-cost 
transport. 
93. Importantly, DP World Australia is likely to have the incentive to engage in 
below-cost conditional discounts if: 
a. the incremental profit from charging a higher price at a later stage 
outweighs the upfront loss from offering below-cost conditional prices, and 
b. the conduct will generate more profit for DP World Australia than the profit 
it would otherwise have derived in the absence of such conduct. 
94. A below-cost conditional discount strategy is more likely to be profitable if 
rivals are rendered competitively ineffective quickly which mitigates the upfront 
loss associated with the strategy. To this end, the ACCC is considering the role 
of economies of scale in the supply of container transport services and the 
extent to which a loss of scale will render rival container transport providers 
less competitively effective. Market feedback to date indicates that there are 
economies of scale associated with container transport services, and that Silk 
benefits from a national presence. Accordingly, a reduction in rivals’ container 
transport volumes is likely to substantially raise the cost for rivals and 
undermine their competitive position.  
95. The ACCC will also have regard to barriers to entry and expansion in the supply 
of container transport services. If barriers to entry and expansion are low, a 
below-cost pricing strategy is less likely to be profitable because new entrants 
will be drawn to the subsequent higher prices that DP World Australia would 
charge, preventing it from recovering the profit lost through below-cost pricing.  
96. The ACCC is also considering whether the existence of vertically integrated 
stevedore and container transport providers further raises real and/or 
perceived barriers to entry for non-integrated container transport providers.  
97. The ACCC is considering the impact that a below-cost conditional discount 
strategy may have on increasing DP World Australia’s quayside stevedore 
container throughput due to cargo owners and freight forwarders switching 
shipping lines to receive a discounted effective bundle (see para 82b). DP 
World Australia may be further incentivised to offer below-cost conditional 
discounts if it appears that the strategy materially increases quayside 
container stevedore throughput.  
98. The ACCC is considering whether DP World Australia may be constrained from 
offering discounted effective bundles to cargo owners due to potential 
straining of DP World Australia’s existing relationships with freight forwarders, 
who may act as both key customers and potential competitors in the container 
supply chain. For example, freight forwarders may have arrangements in which 
a cargo owners’ container is handled by DP World’s terminals and a rival 
transport provider. A discounted effective bundle offered by DP World Australia 
could trigger the cargo owner to break the arrangement organised by the 


DP World Australia – proposed acquisition of Silk Logistics 
Page 24 of 26 
freight forwarder and switch to Silk. This could risk the freight forwarder losing 
the cargo owner as a customer and in retaliation, the freight forwarder could 
pre-emptively move some or all of its containers away from DP World Australia.     
99. The ACCC’s consideration of this theory is not wholly limited to the analysis 
above. The ACCC in its assessment may have further regard to other related 
container services that DP World Australia may include as part of a below-cost 
conditional discount. It may also have regard to the impact on rival stevedores. 
Questions for market participants  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns regarding the 
potential for below-cost conditional discounts. In particular, market participants may 
wish to comment on the following: 
• 
The barriers to expansion and/or entry in the supply of container transport 
services. In your response, detail barriers that are specific to any of the 
Relevant Ports and/or barriers to expanding from a statewide to nationwide 
supplier of container transport services.  
• 
What factors influence customers when choosing between container transport 
providers? How relatively important is pricing among these factors? 
• 
How, post-acquisition, DP World Australia would be able to practically offer a 
cargo owner or freight forwarder an effective bundle of container stevedoring 
and container transport services? In your response, please provide any 
examples and respond to the following: 
o Would such a bundle be commercially feasible to offer cargo owners 
and freight forwarders? 
o Would such an offer be able to be accepted by cargo owners and 
freight forwarders? 
• 
How easy is it for customers to switch between container transport providers? 
What contractual or operational barriers exist?  
• 
How would rival transport providers respond if DP World Australia significantly 
lowered its prices for an extended period?  
• 
How would rival container stevedores respond if DP World Australia 
significantly lowered its prices for an extended period? 
• 
Would customers have sufficient bargaining power to prevent DP World 
Australia from raising prices if Silk’s rivals exited the supply of container 
transport services?  
• 
How difficult or costly would it be for a transport provider to exit and later re-
enter the market if forced out?  


DP World Australia – proposed acquisition of Silk Logistics 
Page 25 of 26 
Issue that may raise concerns: Access to commercially 
sensitive information  
Silk’s access to DP World Australia’s commercially sensitive information  
100. Post-acquisition Silk may have access to commercially sensitive information 
about its rivals. Market feedback indicates that DP World Australia, as a 
container stevedore, may be able to identify the party relating to a container 
shipment (i.e. a freight forwarder or cargo owner) and have access to 
information regarding the routes and delivery schedules of container transport 
providers.  
101. If the proposed acquisition gives a combined DP World Australia and Silk 
access to commercially sensitive information about rival container transport 
providers services and customers, this information could be used by the 
merged entity to target Silk’s rivals’ clients. For example, DP World Australia 
and Silk could use intelligence about a freight forwarder or cargo owner’s 
container volumes and transport requirements to undercut a rival’s service 
offering (i.e. by undercutting Silk’s rival’s offering proactively, without 
necessarily being invited to tender for the cargo owner’s/freight forwarder’s 
contract).  
102. Alternatively, access to competitors’ commercially sensitive information may 
facilitate coordination (including tacit coordination) between Silk and its rivals, 
by increasing the visibility of competitors’ actions and responses to Silk’s 
conduct.  
103. The ACCC is continuing to consider the nature of the information to be held by 
DP World Australia including whether DP World Australia and Silk could identify 
the cargo owner based on the container information it receives.  
DP World’s access to Silk’s commercially sensitive information  
104. Market feedback suggests that Silk has valuable information about a freight 
forwarder or cargo owner’s volume and prices.  
105. DPW, which is the indirect parent entity of DP World Australia, may have the 
ability and incentive to access Silk’s commercially sensitive information to 
advantage its freight forwarding business. If the proposed acquisition gives 
DPW access to commercially sensitive information about its rivals, the ACCC is 
concerned that DPW could use these insights to adversely impact competition. 
For example, DPW could use information on Silk’s clients pricing and volumes 
to undercut rival freight forwarders’ service offerings.  
106. Market feedback indicates that freight forwarders are hesitant to use container 
transport providers that are integrated with rival freight forwarders, due to 
commercially sensitive information that could be passed onto competitors.   
107. However, the ACCC acknowledges that DPW is an indirect parent entity of DP 
World Australia, which would be the ultimate owner of Silk pursuant to the 
proposed acquisition. As discussed above, DPW is not the sole owner of DP 
World Australia, although it has the majority voting rights. To the extent that 


DP World Australia – proposed acquisition of Silk Logistics 
Page 26 of 26 
there is commercial separation between DPW and DP World Australia, the 
ACCC considers that this may limit the flow of information between Silk and 
DPW.    
Questions for market participants  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to 
commercially sensitive information that DP World Australia and/or Silk would have 
access to as a result of the proposed acquisition, and the competitive impact of any 
such strategy. In particular market participants may wish to comment on the 
following:  
DP World Australia’s information   
• 
The type of information that is generally regarded as commercially sensitive 
information that is not otherwise available in the public domain that Silk, 
post-acquisition, would have access to. 
• 
How the information identified above would likely benefit Silk’s container 
transport business if it was available to Silk? 
• 
Identify the likely impact on rivals to Silk as a consequence of its access to 
such information.  
Silk’s information 
• 
The type of information that is generally regarded as commercially sensitive 
information that is not otherwise available in the public domain that DPW, 
post-acquisition, would have access to. 
• 
How the information identified above would likely benefit DPW’s freight 
forwarding business? 
• 
Identify the likely impact on rivals to DPW as a consequence of its access to 
such information. 
ACCC's future steps 
108. As noted above, the ACCC invites submissions from market participants on 
each of the issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue 
that may be relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. Submissions 
should be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au by no later than 27 March 2025. 
109. The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
110. The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 5 June 2025. However 
the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Informal Merger Review 
Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment explaining the ACCC's 
final view may be published following the ACCC's public announcement. 
