 
 
1 
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
tel: (02) 6243 1368
mergers@accc.gov.au
www.accc.gov.au
Our ref: 
IM-70907 
Contact officer: 
Will Sommers / Stella Leung 
Contact phone: 
(03) 9910 9444 / (03) 9658 6444 
6 October 2020 
Dear interested party 
BGC’s proposed acquisition of Midland Brick 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
the proposed acquisition of Midland Brick by BGC (the proposed acquisition). 
BGC supplies various building products and operates residential and commercial 
construction businesses. BGC (through its Brikmakers brand) and Midland Brick overlap in 
the supply of bricks, and other clay and masonry products, in Western Australia. 
Further details regarding the acquisition can be found at Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact on competition. In particular, we are 
seeking your views on: 
• 
the impact of the proposed acquisition on the price and quality of bricks,  
• 
how effectively Austral Bricks would compete with BGC post-acquisition, 
• 
whether customers could switch from bricks to other building products in response 
to price rises.  
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
Please provide your response by 27 October 2020. Responses may be emailed to 
mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: Submission re: BGC/Midland Brick - attention Will 
Sommers. ACCC staff may contact you shortly to discuss this matter. In the meantime, if 
you have any questions about this letter, please contact Will Sommers on (03) 9910 9444 
or Stella Leung on (03) 9658 6444. 


 
2 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC's mergers 
register. 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We will not 
disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by 
law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or during court proceedings) or 
in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010.  Where the 
ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, the ACCC will notify you in advance 
where possible so that you may have an opportunity to be heard.  Therefore, if the 
information provided to the ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our 
Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
Sharon Deano 
General Manager (A/g) 
Merger Investigations 


 
 
3 
Attachment A 
BGC 
 
BGC (Australia) Pty Ltd (part of BGC Group, together BGC) manufactures building 
products, and operates residential and commercial construction businesses. BGC is based 
in Western Australia. BGC supplies a range of clay and masonry products through its 
Brikmakers brand, including clay bricks.  
 
BGC’s Brikmakers products also include purpose made render bricks and blocks, concrete 
pavers, masonry facing and common blocks, and reconstituted limestone facing and 
common blocks predominantly for retaining walls. 
 
Midland Brick 
 
Midland Brick manufactures building products, including clay bricks. Midland Brick is based 
in Middle Swan, Western Australia. Midland Brick also produces clay pavers, dry press 
concrete pavers, and dry press concrete blocks. 
 
In August 2019 Boral agreed to sell Midland Brick to property developers, Linc Property Pty 
Ltd and Fini Group Pty Ltd (now trading as Hesperia Property Pty Ltd and Birchmead Pty 
Ltd, together the consortium). The transaction completed in September 2020. 
 
The proposed acquisition 
 
BGC proposes to acquire the Midland Brick business, including a lease for a northern 
parcel of the Middle Swan site on which two of Midland Brick’s three operating brick kilns 
are situated as well as brick inventory. The consortium intends to retain and develop the 
remaining Middle Swan land, and accordingly the other operating and two non-operating 
Midland Brick kilns will be dismantled.  
 
The proposed acquisition also includes Midland Brick’s masonry business, and a parcel of 
land on the Middle Swan site upon which the masonry business is situated. 
 


 
 
4 
Attachment B 
1. Please provide a brief description of your business or organisation. 
2. Please outline your interest in the proposed acquisition, including any commercial 
relationships with BGC (Brikmakers) or Midland Brick. 
Competition from other bricks suppliers 
3. If BGC tried to increase the price of clay bricks post-acquisition, please comment 
on the ability of Austral Bricks or other brick suppliers to compete and therefore 
limit the ability for BGC to increase prices. In your answer, please consider: 
• 
whether Austral Bricks or other brick suppliers would be an alternative 
to a combined Brikmakers/Midland Brick 
• 
transport costs (i.e. from what distance is it economic to source clay 
bricks?) 
• 
whether Austral Bricks could respond to a price increase from BGC by 
increasing its own prices. 
Competition from other building products 
4. If the price of bricks were to rise post-acquisition, would customers use other 
building products instead of bricks, such as: 
• 
concrete blocks, panels and similar products 
• 
timber weatherboards, or 
• 
fibre cement panels or boards, or 
• 
timber and steel-framed lightweight construction materials? 
 
In your answer, please consider the main factors for selecting bricks or other 
building materials. Factors may include customer preferences, the total installed 
price, the installation time, functional properties (for example, thermal and sound 
insulation), the type of building, or the role of architects. 
Future competition 
5. Please comment on how competitive each of BGC (Brikmakers) and Midland 
Brick are for the supply of clay bricks at present (in terms of price and quality). 
How do you expect this would change in the future (taking into account that 
irrespective of the proposed acquisition, one operational and two non-operational 
Midland Brick kilns will be dismantled so that the land can be used for property 
development)?  
Power of customers 
6. If BGC tried to increase the price of clay bricks post-acquisition, please comment 
on whether any large customers, such as large residential home builders, could 
sponsor another manufacturer of bricks or other building products to expand their 
supply (for example, by offering a large contract to the manufacturer). 
Other information 
7. Please provide any other information or comments you consider relevant. 
