Page 1 of 13 
 
Statement of Issues 
14 February 2020 
 Bunnings Group Limited – proposed acquisition of 
Adelaide Tools and Oaklands Mower Centre 
Purpose 
1. 
Bunnings Group Limited (Bunnings) proposes to acquire the business and 
business assets of R.W. & M. Peach Pty Ltd, in its capacity as the trustee of The 
Peach Family Trust, which carries on the business of Adelaide Tools and 
Oaklands Mower Centre (together, Adelaide Tools).  
2. 
This Statement of Issues: 
 
gives the preliminary views of the Australian Competition and Consumer 
Commission (ACCC) on competition issues arising from the proposed 
acquisition;  
 
identifies areas of further inquiry; and 
 
invites interested parties to submit comments and information to assist our 
assessment of the issues. 
3. 
Statements of Issues do not refer to confidential information provided by the 
parties or other market participants and therefore may not necessarily represent 
a full articulation of the ACCC’s preliminary position. 
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views 
4. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is 
set out in section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. In general 
terms, section 50 prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to 
have the effect, of substantially lessening competition in any market. 
5. 
The ACCC divides its preliminary views into three categories, 'issues of concern', 
'issues that may raise concerns' and ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’. In this 
Statement of Issues there is one ‘issue that may raise concerns’ and one ‘issue 
unlikely to raise concerns.’  


Bunnings – proposed acquisition of Adelaide Tools 
 
Page 2 of 13 
Issue that may raise concerns 
6. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition may substantially lessen 
competition in the retail supply of tools, equipment and outdoor power equipment 
(collectively, T&E) in the Adelaide metropolitan region.  
Issues unlikely to raise concerns 
7. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to result 
in a substantial lessening of competition in the wholesale supply of T&E in 
Australia. 
Making a submission 
8. 
The ACCC is seeking submissions from interested parties, particularly on the 
following key issues: 
 
the extent to which Bunnings and Adelaide Tools compete to supply like-
for-like products to customers; 
 
the extent to which Adelaide Tools is an effective and vigorous competitor 
in the supply of T&E in Adelaide; 
 
the extent to which the combined Bunnings-Adelaide Tools is likely to be 
constrained by other retailers of T&E post-acquisition; 
 
the likelihood of new entry or expansion into Adelaide; and 
 
the extent to which the proposed acquisition would increase Bunnings’ 
purchasing power over wholesale T&E suppliers. 
9. 
Detailed discussion of these and other issues, along with specific questions, is 
contained in this Statement of Issues.  
10. 
Interested parties should provide submissions by no later than 5pm on 6 March 
2020. Responses may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: 
Submission re: Bunnings/Adelaide Tools - attention Gennady Kleiner/Nigel Vise. 
If you would like to discuss the matter with ACCC officers over the telephone or 
in person, or have any questions about this Statement of Issues, please contact 
Gennady Kleiner on (03) 9290 1842 or Nigel Vise on (03) 9290 1468.  
11. 
The ACCC anticipates making a final decision on 23 April 2020, however, this 
timeline can change. To keep abreast of possible changes in relation to timing 
and to find relevant documents, interested parties should visit the Mergers 
Register on the ACCC's website at www.accc.gov.au/publicregisters/mergers-
registers/public-informal-merger-reviews. 
Confidentiality of submissions 
12. 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We 
will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) 
unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation 
or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition 
and Consumer Act 2010.  Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 


Bunnings – proposed acquisition of Adelaide Tools 
 
Page 3 of 13 
information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where possible so that you may 
have an opportunity to be heard.  Therefore, if the information provided to the 
ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’ 
13. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well 
as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
14. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 
Timeline 
 
Date 
Event 
5 November 2019 
ACCC commenced review of the proposed acquisition 
14 February 2020 
ACCC publication of Statement of Issues 
6 March 2020 
Deadline for submissions from interested parties in response 
to this Statement of Issues 
23 April 2020 
Anticipated date for ACCC final decision  
The parties 
15. 
Bunnings is Australia’s largest multi-category retailer operating in the T&E, 
building supplies and home improvement sector. Bunnings operates 302 stores 
throughout Australia, including twelve warehouses and two Bunnings Trade 
Centres in the Adelaide metropolitan area. Bunnings predominantly caters to two 
sets of customers – do-it-yourself (DIY) customers and trade customers. 
16. 
Bunnings is a subsidiary of Wesfarmers Limited, one of the largest companies in 
Australia. J. Blackwood & Son Pty Ltd (Blackwoods) is another subsidiary of 
Wesfarmers Limited that also supplies tools, targeting industrial customers. 
17. 
Adelaide Tools is a family-owned business that specialises in sales of T&E. It 
operates five retail stores and Oaklands Mower Centre in the Adelaide 
metropolitan area. Adelaide Tools predominantly supplies to trade customers, 
but also caters for industrial customers and ‘serious DIY’ customers. 


Bunnings – proposed acquisition of Adelaide Tools 
 
Page 4 of 13 
Industry background 
T&E  
18. 
Retailers selling T&E commonly supply a range of tools (power tools, hand tools 
and tool accessories), equipment (storage) and outdoor power equipment. 
Common examples of products include: 
 
power tools: drills, sanders, angle grinders and circular saws, as well as 
welding, soldering and joining tools 
 
hand tools: hammers, screwdrivers, spanners, hand saws, chisels and 
socket sets 
 
tool accessories: drill bits, screwdrivers bits, abrasives, blades, holesaws 
and multi-tool accessories 
 
storage: tool chests, tool belts and tool bags, and  
 
outdoor power equipment: chainsaws, lawnmowers, hedge trimmers, 
blowers and garden tool accessories. 
19. 
T&E comes in a range of different quality standards, suitable for different uses: 
 
highly specialised (expensive) trade quality T&E, which are generally only 
required for specific trade or industrial purposes 
 
less specialised (less expensive) trade quality T&E, routinely used by trade 
customers for their work or by serious DIY customers, and  
 
consumer quality T&E, suited more for occasional use by DIY customers.  
Retailers of T&E 
20. 
The manufacturers of T&E distribute their products in Australia through a range 
of retailers, which sell T&E in-store and online.  
Multi-category retailers 
21. 
Multi-category retailers supply T&E as part of their broader big-box product 
offering. The largest two multi-category retailers in Australia are Bunnings and 
the Independent Hardware Group (IHG), representing brands including Mitre 10, 
Home Timber & Hardware, and True Value Hardware.  
Specialist T&E retail chains 
22. 
Specialist T&E chains specialise in the retail supply of T&E, particularly to trade 
customers. Total Tools is the only national T&E specialist, operating 81 stores 
across all states and territories in Australia, including six stores in South 
Australia. Total Tools operates under a franchise model. 
23. 
The next largest specialist T&E chain (by number of stores) is Sydney Tools, a 
privately-owned chain that operates 32 stores across NSW and Victoria, as well 
as one store in Queensland.  


Bunnings – proposed acquisition of Adelaide Tools 
 
Page 5 of 13 
24. 
Other specialist T&E retail chains are based in a single state or territory and 
include Trade Tools (18 stores in Queensland), Toolmart (12 stores in Western 
Australia) and Adelaide Tools (5 stores and one Oaklands Mower Centre in 
South Australia). 
Other retailers 
25. 
There are a number of retail chains that supply T&E catering for trade customers 
operating in a specific industry or DIY customers. For example, Reece supplies a 
selection of T&E as parts of its broader offering to plumbers. Other retailers 
include Stratco, Repco, Laurence & Hanson, and Supercheap Auto. 
26. 
There are also many small independent sole-trader stores selling T&E. Some 
independents specialise in selling either tools or outdoor power equipment, while 
some sell both. There are a number of different buying groups that purchase and 
negotiate supply agreements with wholesale suppliers on behalf of small 
independent stores. Examples include Natbuild, Australian Industrial Suppliers, 
Hardware & Building Traders, and United Tools. Independent member stores 
may operate under the buying group’s branded banner (e.g. United Tools) or 
continue to operate under their own brand (e.g. Natbuild). 
27. 
Further, some manufacturers have set up their own branded stores to sell their 
products directly to consumers. For example, Stihl operates retail stores across 
Australia selling outdoor power equipment. 
Online sales 
28. 
Many retailers, including specialist T&E retail chains, operate an online store. A 
number of retailers offer delivery via “click and collect” service, where customers 
can nominate to have their order delivered to a selected retailer’s store, while 
other retailers deliver T&E to the customer’s nominated address. 
29. 
Market inquiries indicate that online sales act primarily as a complement to in-
store sales. Customers use online stores to conduct research, compare prices 
and check stock availability. Information obtained by the ACCC indicates that 
online sales typically constitute less than 10 per cent of most retailers’ total sales 
and growth of online sales has not been significant to date. 
Purchasers of T&E 
30. 
The customers who purchase T&E broadly fall into three segments – DIY, trade 
and industrial. Based on market feedback, the ACCC considers that these 
customer segments tend to exhibit the characteristics set out below.  
31. 
DIY customers typically purchase T&E for occasional personal use, rather than 
for their employment. In general, DIY customers have a stronger focus on price 
and convenience than product quality and reliability, and prefer to shop at 
retailers that offer a ‘one-stop-shop’. For this reason, DIY customers typically 
prefer to shop at multi-category retailers, but more serious DIY customers will 
also shop at specialist T&E stores. 
32. 
Trade customers typically purchase T&E for their employment. In general, trade 
customers have a stronger focus on product quality and reliability, while still 
considering price and convenience as important factors. In some cases, trade 
customers prefer to purchase from specialist T&E stores – for example if they 


Bunnings – proposed acquisition of Adelaide Tools 
 
Page 6 of 13 
require specialised T&E or expert advice. In other cases, for example when they 
require T&E that they routinely use and know well (including accessories), trade 
customers will typically choose between different retailers, including T&E 
specialists and multi-category retailers, based on convenience and price.  
33. 
Industrial customers typically purchase T&E in bulk for large-scale industrial 
projects. Given their specific needs, industrial customers typically prefer to 
purchase T&E from industrial supply specialists, such as Blackwoods. Some 
industrial customers will also buy T&E from T&E specialists, such as Adelaide 
Tools, which otherwise predominantly supply to trade customers.  
Market definition  
34. 
The ACCC’s starting point for defining relevant markets to assess the 
competitive effects of the proposed acquisition involves identifying the products 
actually or potentially supplied by the merger parties. The ACCC then considers 
what other firms do (or could) supply the same products or other products that 
constitute sufficiently close substitutes to the products supplied by the merger 
parties such that those other firms provide a significant source of constraint on 
the merged entity. The supply of T&E is the area of overlap between Bunnings 
and Adelaide Tools and is therefore the starting point for the ACCC’s analysis. 
35. 
The ACCC assessed the competitive effects of the proposed acquisition in both 
the retail and the wholesale markets, which are discussed below.  
Retail market for the supply of T&E  
36. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the relevant retail markets are for the retail 
supply of T&E in the Adelaide metropolitan region. 
37. 
The following section covers the areas of product overlap and the geographic 
scope of the relevant markets. Issues relating to customer and supplier 
substitution are explored under the competition issue headings below. 
Product dimension of the market 
38. 
The ACCC considered whether there are separate markets for the retail supply 
of: 
 
each of power tools, hand tools, tool accessories, tool equipment and 
outdoor power equipment, or  
 
a combination of some, or all, of these products. 
39. 
Market inquiries indicate that many retailers, including the merger parties, sell a 
combination of these products in their stores. This is primarily due to demand-
side and supply-side efficiencies in selling these products together. For example, 
trade customers generally need a range of T&E to complete their jobs and prefer 
to shop for them at the same store. In addition, many T&E manufacturers 
develop T&E across a range of categories and distribute them together via the 
same channels. This makes it efficient for T&E retailers to both procure and sell 
a variety of T&E categories in their stores. 


Bunnings – proposed acquisition of Adelaide Tools 
 
Page 7 of 13 
40. 
On this basis, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the relevant product market 
for the purpose of assessing the competitive effects of the proposed acquisition 
is likely to include a combination of some, or all, of T&E. 
41. 
However, the ACCC’s concerns remain if it were to consider separate markets 
for the retail supply of each category of T&E, as narrowing the market definition 
would not substantially change the competition assessment for most T&E 
categories, including power tools. 
42. 
The ACCC also considered whether there is a market for sales of T&E to trade 
customers, separate from sales of T&E to DIY customers. As Bunnings and 
other multi-category retailers sell to both customer types, and specialist T&E 
retail chains also make some sales to DIY customers, the ACCC’s approach at 
this stage is to treat both customer segments as within the same market. This is 
also a result of supply-side efficiencies of selling T&E to both customer types. 
For example, many T&E manufacturers develop T&E across a range of 
functionality, quality and price levels that appeal to different customer types. 
However, as is discussed below in the competition assessment, the focus of the 
ACCC’s investigation is on sales to trade customers.  
Geographic scope of the market  
Adelaide metropolitan region 
43. 
The ACCC considers that in markets involving retail chains, competition may 
occur at more than one geographic level. While all retailers compete to attract 
customers from other similar retailers in the same local area, retail chains also 
compete through elements of their overall retail offers, which may be determined 
across a broader area. 
44. 
Market inquiries indicate that Adelaide Tools and other retail T&E chains 
compete with each other on the basis of their Adelaide-wide (or broader) offers.  
45. 
Therefore, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the Adelaide metropolitan region 
is likely to be a relevant area in which to assess the competition effects of the 
proposed acquisition. 
Local areas  
46. 
The ACCC considers that the local areas around each of the five Adelaide Tools 
stores and Oaklands Mower Centre are also relevant to the competition 
assessment, as there are some elements of the offers of retail T&E chains that 
vary depending on the local competitive dynamics.  
47. 
For example, how much effort T&E retailers put into service quality, store fit-outs 
or how aggressively T&E retailers discount certain products will likely depend on 
the local alternatives available. Further, market inquiries indicate that some 
customers are not willing to travel long distances to purchase from a competitor 
and online sales are not a strong substitute to in-store sales. 
48. 
Therefore, while the competition analysis below is focused on the Adelaide 
metropolitan region, it should be also taken to apply to each of the local areas 
around Adelaide Tools’ stores.  
 


Bunnings – proposed acquisition of Adelaide Tools 
 
Page 8 of 13 
National effects 
49. 
The ACCC also considers that there may be some national effects of the retail 
offer of Adelaide Tools, as it operates an online store and retail T&E chains 
occasionally respond to Adelaide Tools’ prices through customer initiated price 
matches or by lowering the prices of their T&E in stores outside of South 
Australia. 
50. 
However, the ACCC understands that other retail T&E chains do not typically 
respond to Adelaide Tools’ prices on a national basis. Further, Adelaide Tools 
does not make significant sales outside of South Australia, as it does not have 
any stores outside of South Australia. On this basis, the ACCC’s preliminary 
view is that there are unlikely to be competition concerns in a national market for 
retail supply of T&E in relation to this proposed acquisition.   
Wholesale market for the supply of T&E 
51. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the relevant wholesale market is the 
wholesale supply of T&E in Australia.  
52. 
Market inquiries indicate that retailers purchase T&E from a supplier under a 
single contract, rather than through separate contracts for different categories of 
T&E. On this basis, it is relevant to consider the supply of all T&E for the purpose 
of assessing the competitive effects of the proposed acquisition in the wholesale 
market.  
53. 
In terms of the geographic scope, market inquiries indicate that upstream 
suppliers of T&E distribute their products across the whole of Australia and 
negotiate supply contracts with T&E retailers on a nationwide basis. On this 
basis, the relevant market is the wholesale supply of T&E in Australia. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on market definition, including: 
 
The importance of retailers being a one-stop-shop for customers’ T&E needs. 
 
The reasons why T&E retailers tend to supply a range of different T&E products, 
rather than just one category of products, for example power tools. 
 
Whether there are any retailers that sell only one category of products, for example 
power tools or hand, and if so, the reasons why. 
 
The extent to which T&E retailers compete on price or non-price factors at 
individual stores, instead of, or in addition to, competing on a state or national 
level. 
 
How far customers are willing to travel in order to purchase T&E, and whether this 
differs between trade and DIY customers, or between different types of T&E.  
 
 


Bunnings – proposed acquisition of Adelaide Tools 
 
Page 9 of 13 
Issue that may raise concerns: reduction in competition 
for the retail supply of T&E in Adelaide 
54. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition will increase 
concentration and may substantially lessen competition in relation to the retail 
supply of T&E to customers in the Adelaide metropolitan region. 
Bunnings is a major supplier of T&E to trade customers in Adelaide 
55. 
Market inquiries indicate that Bunnings is often perceived as focusing on 
supplying DIY customers. However, information obtained by the ACCC shows 
that Bunnings is also a major supplier of T&E to trade customers in Adelaide. 
56. 
Bunnings stocks a number of trade quality T&E brands, including Makita, 
DeWalt, Bosch Blue, AEG, Irwin, Stanley, Kincrome and Sidchrome. Bunnings 
also offers PowerPass trade accounts to professional trade customers and a 
substantial proportion of Bunnings’ sales of T&E are made to customers with 
PowerPass accounts. 
Adelaide Tools is a vigorous and effective competitor to Bunnings in Adelaide 
57. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that Adelaide Tools provides an important 
competitive constraint on Bunnings in the retail supply of T&E in Adelaide. 
Market inquiries indicate that Adelaide Tools has a strong reputation and 
competes aggressively on price, brand and product range, quality of service and 
a range of other factors, particularly for supply to trade customers. 
58. 
Bunnings submitted to the ACCC that it does not compete closely with Adelaide 
Tools due to the limitations of its big-box store format. In particular, Bunnings 
submitted that it cannot effectively compete for supply to trade customers 
because it has less floor space for T&E, it does not stock the highly specialised 
trade quality T&E, its sales team has less technical expertise and it does not 
offer the same level of after-sales service and support. 
59. 
The ACCC acknowledges that trade customers who require highly specialised 
T&E or expert advice may be more likely to shop at specialist T&E retail chains 
than at Bunnings. However, the ACCC considers that there is a significant 
proportion of trade customers who require less specialised (but still trade quality) 
T&E and do not require much advice as they are frequent and informed users of 
T&E. Therefore, these customers may be likely to readily substitute between 
Adelaide Tools and Bunnings for their trade quality T&E purchases. Bunnings’ 
significant sales to trade customers reflect this. 
60. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that Adelaide Tools competes closely with 
Bunnings, notwithstanding the differences in their retail format.  
The proposed acquisition may reduce competition in Adelaide 
61. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition may reduce competition 
for retail supply of T&E to customers in the Adelaide metropolitan region. In 
particular, the ACCC is concerned that there will be fewer retail T&E chains 
vigorously competing for sales, leading to customers paying higher prices or 
receiving a lower quality of service. 


Bunnings – proposed acquisition of Adelaide Tools 
 
Page 10 of 13 
62. 
While Bunnings submitted that it will operate Adelaide Tools as a standalone 
business, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition will 
significantly increase concentration and reduce Adelaide Tools’ incentives to 
aggressively compete with Bunnings for retail supply of T&E in Adelaide. For 
example, due to Bunnings’ ‘lowest prices’ guarantee, the combined Bunnings-
Adelaide Tools will have a strong incentive to stop Adelaide Tools’ branded 
stores from undercutting Bunnings’ big box stores on prices of identical and 
potentially even like-for-like T&E products. Further, the merged entity may find it 
worthwhile to increase Adelaide Tools’ prices or reduce its quality of service to 
the extent that some dissatisfied customers may substitute their purchases to 
Bunnings. 
63. 
The ACCC considers that the combined Bunnings-Adelaide Tools will continue 
to face competition from Total Tools, which has a nationwide presence, including 
six stores in Adelaide, and already competes strongly with Bunnings and 
Adelaide Tools.   
64. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that customers of Bunnings or Adelaide Tools 
are much less likely to substitute to other specialist T&E retail chains given none 
of them presently operate stores in Adelaide. Therefore, the other specialist T&E 
retail chains are likely to provide less of a constraint on the combined Bunnings-
Adelaide Tools entity than Total Tools.  
65. 
While many of these specialist T&E retail chains operate an online store, market 
inquiries indicate that trade customers generally prefer to shop in-store and do 
not regard online sales as a strong substitute, for example because: 
 
they often have an incentive to obtain products quickly to continue working 
 
they often prefer to see and feel handheld tools, and 
 
they value the relationship they have with their T&E retailer. 
66. 
Further, IHG, the second largest multi-category retailer in Adelaide, is likely to 
continue to provide some constraint on Bunnings post acquisition. However, 
market feedback indicates that IHG stores do not compete strongly with 
Bunnings and the specialist T&E retail chains on price, range or service for the 
supply of T&E to trade customers. 
67. 
Finally, while the Bunnings-Adelaide Tools entity will face some competition from 
non-specialist T&E retailers, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that their constraint 
on the Bunnings-Adelaide Tools entity is likely to be much less compared to the 
competitive constraint of specialist T&E retail chains. A number of these retailers 
target customers in a particular industry (e.g. Reece targets plumbers) and/or 
stock a relatively narrow range of T&E (e.g. some don’t sell power tools), while 
small independent retailers often don’t have the scale to compete vigorously with 
large retail chains on price.  
68. 
Overall, while the combined Bunnings-Adelaide Tools entity will continue to face 
competition from Total Tools post acquisition, the ACCC’s preliminary view is 
that other retailers will provide less constraint on the combined entity, so the 
reduction in competition for retail sales of T&E in Adelaide may be substantial. 
 


Bunnings – proposed acquisition of Adelaide Tools 
 
Page 11 of 13 
Prospect of new entry into Adelaide  
69. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that there are high barriers to setting up a brand 
new specialist T&E retail chain or multi-category hardware chain selling T&E. 
New entrants are likely to find it difficult to obtain access to suppliers and 
compete with incumbent T&E retail chains on price due to the advantages 
conferred by economies of scale.  
70. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that barriers to interstate expansion of existing 
specialist T&E retail chains are likely to be lower. For example, in July 2019, 
Sydney Tools announced that it plans to open new stores in every state and 
territory of Australia over the next five years.1  
71. 
The ACCC continues to consider the likelihood of Sydney Tools or another 
specialist T&E retail chain outside of South Australia expanding into Adelaide 
and the effect that this (or the threat of expansion) is likely to have on future 
competition in the Adelaide metropolitan region. 
ACCC’s preliminary view 
72. 
In summary, the ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition may 
substantially lessen competition in the retail supply of T&E to customers in the 
Adelaide metropolitan region. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to 
this issue. In particular market participants may wish to comment on the following: 
 
The extent to which Bunnings and Adelaide Tools compete to supply T&E to 
customers, including the same products or products with similar functionality, 
quality or price.  
 
The extent to which Adelaide Tools is a vigorous and effective competitor for the 
supply of T&E in Adelaide, including by providing competitive pricing, service and 
product range. 
 
The level of constraint that would apply to the combined Bunnings-Adelaide Tools 
by existing competitors in Adelaide, including Total Tools, IHG, independent tool 
retailers, and category specialists such as Reece, Repco and Stratco. 
 
The level of constraint that would apply to a combined Bunnings-Adelaide Tools by 
competitors in other states, including the impact of national pricing policies and the 
ability to purchase T&E online. 
 
The likelihood of new entry into Adelaide, the barriers to entry, and the extent to 
which new entry (or the threat of entry) could constrain the combined Bunnings-
Adelaide Tools. 
 
How customers generally would respond if Adelaide Tools’ prices increased or its 
service quality decreased. E.g. how likely would it be for customers to continue to 
shop at Adelaide Tools, switch to Bunnings, or switch to another retailer? 
                                                 
 
1 https://insideretail.com.au/news/sydney-tools-to-add-40-stores-in-next-five-years-201907 


Bunnings – proposed acquisition of Adelaide Tools 
 
Page 12 of 13 
Issue unlikely to raise concerns: reduction of competition 
in the wholesale T&E market in Australia 
73. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to 
substantially increase Bunnings’ market power as a wholesale purchaser of T&E 
in Australia. 
Increase in Bunnings’ market power is unlikely to be substantial 
74. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that Bunnings already holds significant market 
power as a purchaser of T&E in the wholesale market in Australia. Market 
inquiries indicate that for a number of upstream T&E suppliers, sales to 
Bunnings constitute a substantial proportion of their national sales.  
75. 
The ACCC considers that as upstream suppliers become more dependent on 
Bunnings, this puts Bunnings into a stronger position to negotiate exclusive 
arrangements for the supply of T&E brands, or to negotiate more favourable 
prices and supply terms that would not be available to other T&E retailers. This 
may increase difficulty for other retailers to compete or otherwise increase 
barriers to expansion or entry. 
76. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that sales to Adelaide Tools are likely to 
constitute a small proportion of the key upstream T&E suppliers’ Australian 
sales. Therefore, any incremental increase in Bunnings’ market power arising 
from the proposed acquisition is unlikely to be substantial.  
ACCC’s preliminary view  
77. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that because the incremental increase in 
Bunnings’ market power at the wholesale level appears likely to be small, the 
proposed acquisition is unlikely to substantially lessen competition for wholesale 
supply of T&E in Australia. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to 
this issue. In particular market participants may wish to comment on the following: 
 
The extent to which acquisition of Adelaide Tools is likely to provide Bunnings with 
additional market power in the wholesale T&E market, for example, an increased 
ability to negotiate exclusive arrangements or more favourable prices and supply 
terms that would not be available to other T&E retailers. 
 
Whether the change of ownership of Adelaide Tools is likely to lead to any material 
differences in the competitive dynamics of the wholesale supply of T&E. 
ACCC's future steps 
78. 
As noted above, the ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on 
each of the issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue 
that may be relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. Submissions are 
to be received by the ACCC no later than 6 March 2020 and should be emailed 
to mergers@accc.gov.au. 


Bunnings – proposed acquisition of Adelaide Tools 
 
Page 13 of 13 
79. 
The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
80. 
The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 23 April 2020. However 
the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Informal Merger Review 
Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose of 
explaining the ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's public 
announcement to explain its final view. 
