 
 
1 
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
tel: (02) 6243 1368 
mergers@accc.gov.au
www.accc.gov.au
Our ref: 
IM-70321 
 
Contact officer: 
Amelia Richardson-Dear / Nigel Vise  
Contact phone: 
(07) 3835 4606 / (03) 9290 1468 
5 September 2019 
Dear Interested Party 
Re:  Request for submissions: Global Forests Partners’ proposed acquisition 
of RMS’s Tasmanian hardwood plantations and interest in the Plantation 
Export Group 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
the proposed acquisition of Resource Management Service LLC (RMS)’s Tasmanian 
hardwood plantation and an interest in the Plantation Export Group (PEG) by funds 
managed by Global Forest Partners (GFP) (the proposed acquisition). 
GFP is a US-based investment adviser which specialises in the structuring and 
management of international forestry investments. GFP advises funds that own Reliance 
Forest Fibre which in turn owns timber plantations, a chipping mill and export operation in 
Tasmania. 
RMS manages funds which own hardwood plantations in Tasmania and a third share in 
PEG. Further details regarding the acquisition can be found at Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact on competition. In particular, we are 
seeking your views on: 
 
the impact of the proposed acquisition on the prices for plantation hardwood logs in 
Tasmania 
 
the impact of the proposed acquisition on export operations at the Ports of Bell Bay 
and Burnie, and the likely avenues available for private growers to sell plantation 
hardwood logs or wood chips following the proposed acquisition 
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 


 
 
2 
Please provide your response by no later than 5pm on Thursday, 12 September 2019. 
Responses may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: Submission re: GFP / 
RMS - attention Amelia Richardson-Dear / Nigel Vise. If you would like to arrange a time to 
discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any questions about this letter, please 
contact Amelia Richardson-Dear on (07) 3835 4606 or Nigel Vise on (03) 9290 1468. 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public 
Mergers Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We will not 
disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by 
law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or during court proceedings) or 
in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010.  Where the 
ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, the ACCC will notify you in advance 
where possible so that you may have an opportunity to be heard.  Therefore, if the 
information provided to the ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our 
Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
Tom Leuner 
General Manager 
Merger Investigations 


 
 
3 
Attachment A – Information about the merger parties and the proposed acquisition 
 
Global Forest Partners 
 
GFP is a US-based investment adviser, registered with the US Securities and Exchange 
Commission, which specialises in the structuring and management of international forestry 
investments. 
  
GFP advises investment funds that own Reliance Forest Fibre Pty Ltd (RFF). In 2017, RFF 
acquired 99 year forestry rights over approximately 27,00ha of hardwood plantations in 
Tasmania from Sustainable Timber Tasmania (formerly Forestry Tasmania).  
 
RFF also controls a hardwood chipping facility at Bell Bay. RFF is currently GFP's only 
investment in Tasmania. GFP also manages Australian Bluegum Plantations (ABP), a fund 
which owns hardwood timber assets in mainland Australia. ABP provides marketing services 
to RFF in Tasmania. 
 
RMS 
 
RMS is a global forest investment firm, headquartered in Alabama, USA. RMS manages 
approximately 2.5 million acres of privately owned forests in the United States, Brazil, 
Australia and New Zealand. All of its Tasmanian products are exported.  
 
In 2017, RMS established the Plantation Export Group (PEG) with Pentarch Forest Products 
Pty Ltd (Pentarch) and Midway Limited (Midway). PEG is a joint marketing entity which 
markets and exports woodchips on behalf of RMS and other forest growers and processors to 
customers in Asia. RMS, Pentarch and Midway are equal joint owners of PEG. 
 
The proposed acquisition 
 
GFP proposes to acquire RMS’ hardwood plantation assets in Tasmania via a competitive bid 
process. The sale comprises: 
 
freehold land of more than 36,000 hectares (gross), including approximately 21,000 
hectares of productive area. The productive area is stocked with approximately 
19,000 hectares of hardwood eucalypt and approximately 2,000 hectares of area 
awaiting re-establishment 
 
RMS’s shareholding in PEG. 


 
 
4 
Attachment B – Questions for market participants 
1. 
Please provide a brief description of your business or organisation and outline the 
reasons for your interest in the proposed acquisition, including any commercial 
relationship/s with GFP, RMS or PEG. 
Woodchip marketing and export services 
2. 
Please describe the current export options for growers of plantation hardwood logs for 
chipping, and woodchip suppliers in Tasmania. 
3. 
Please describe any differences as between Bell Bay and Burnie: 
a. 
in the cost of exporting wood chips. For example port fees or transport costs 
b. 
in prices paid to private growers for hardwood plantation logs (for chipping).  
4. 
What is the minimum volume/number of vessels a plantation hardwood chip exporter 
needs to supply to remain relevant/competitive in the international market? Is it 
possible to export 1 or 2 ship loads per year? 
5. 
Do woodchip vessels currently load at: 
a. 
 both Bell Bay and Burnie in a single voyage? 
b. 
 at both a Tasmanian port and a mainland port in a single voyage? 
If not, could they in the future? Are there any additional costs associated with this? 
6. 
Does the need for a vessel to load at multiple ports during a single voyage impact on 
the prices paid to private growers for their plantation hardwood logs? 
Bell Bay 
7. 
If GFP diverted the RMS volumes at Bell Bay from PEG’s export operation to ABP’s 
export operation, what would be the impact on export operations at Bell Bay, including 
the number of buyers for plantation hardwood logs from private growers? 
8. 
What would the likely impact on prices be for private plantation hardwood logs if the 
number of export operations at Bell Bay decreased from three to two? 
Burnie 
9. 
If GFP acquired the sale assets of RMS, would GFP be likely to continue to export its 
and RMS’s North West volumes through PEG at Burnie? 
10. Would a combined RMS/GFP have enough volume at Burnie for ABP to export wood 
chips from Burnie or ‘top up’ ships from Bell Bay? Would this position be different if it 
could also export volumes from STT and Pentarch? 
11. Could GFP divert RMS’ volumes from Burnie to GFP’s mill and export operation at Bell 
Bay? 
12. What would the likely impact be on prices for private plantation hardwood logs if the 
number of export operations at Burnie decreased from two to one?  
13. If PEG no longer exported chips from Bell Bay, would it have sufficient volume to 
continue to export from just Burnie? 
 


 
 
5 
 
Acquisition of woodchipping services in Tasmania 
14. Would GFP be likely to divert the RMS volumes in the Northeast from Artec to RFF? If 
so, could ARTEC continue to supply plantation hardwood chipping services? 
15. Did Artec provide hardwood plantation too wood chipping services or acquire logs from 
private plantation owners prior to id 2018? 
16. If Artec no longer provided plantation chipping services, would this impact the price 
paid to private growers for hardwood logs in North East Tasmania? 
17.  Would GFP be likely to continue processing RMS volumes in the Northwest through 
Pentarch? If not, would Pentarch continue to supply plantation hardwood chipping 
services? 
Supply of forestry services 
18. If GFP purchases the sale assets of RMS, would it affect the ability of: 
a. forest service contractors to supply forestry services in Tasmania? Would it 
reduce the prices paid for the supply of forestry services in Tasmania?  
b. forest growers to acquire forestry services in Tasmania? Would it reduce the 
available suppliers of forestry services? 
Other information or competition issues 
19. Please provide any additional information or comments, or identify other competition 
issues, that you consider relevant to the ACCC’s consideration of the proposed 
acquisition under section 50 of the Act.  
 
