 
Page 1 of 18 
 
Statement of Issues 
26 September 2019 
New Forests managed fund – proposed acquisition of  
RMS’ Tasmanian assets  
 
Global Forest Partners advised fund – proposed 
acquisition of RMS’ Tasmanian assets 
 
Purpose 
1. 
Resource Management Service LLC (RMS) is selling its Tasmanian hardwood 
plantations and an interest in the Plantation Export Group (PEG) (the RMS 
assets) via a competitive tender.  
2. 
Two of the parties proposing to bid to acquire those assets are: 
 
A forestry investment fund managed by New Forests Asset Management 
(New Forests) (this is referred to as the New Forests acquisition) 
 
An investment fund advised by Global Forest Partners LP (GFP) 
(referred to as the GFP acquisition). 
3. 
This Statement of Issues: 
 
gives the preliminary views of the Australian Competition and Consumer 
Commission (ACCC) on competition issues arising from the proposed 
acquisitions;  
 
identifies areas of further inquiry 
 
invites interested parties to submit comments and information to assist 
our assessment of the issues. 
4. 
Statements of Issues give preliminary views and do not refer to confidential 
information provided by the parties or other market participants, therefore they 
may not be a full articulation of the ACCC’s preliminary position. 


New Forests, and GFP – proposed acquisitions of RMS’ Tasmanian assets 
 
 
Page 2 of 18 
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views 
5. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is 
in section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits 
acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of 
substantially lessening competition in any market. 
6. 
The ACCC divides its preliminary views into three categories, 'issues of concern', 
'issues that may raise concerns' and ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’. 
7. 
The ACCC considers that access to different export options is important to 
maintain competition for the acquisition of hardwood chipping logs from private 
plantation owners. Concentration in the number of buyers of logs could lead to 
buyer power that would interfere with the efficient operation of the market by 
distorting price signals leading to inefficient resource allocation.  
Issue of concern – New Forests acquisition 
8. 
The ACCC is concerned that the New Forests acquisition is likely to lead to the 
loss of alternative woodchip exporters at Burnie, such that the only woodchip 
exporter is owned by a New Forests fund, which would become the sole buyer of 
woodchips. This is likely to impact competition to acquire chipping logs from 
private plantation owners and may distort decisions about future investment in 
hardwood plantations. 
Issue that may raise concern – New Forests acquisition  
9. 
The New Forests acquisition may lead to a reduction in the number of woodchip 
exporters at Bell Bay. This would reduce the number of potential buyers of logs, 
which may increase their buyer power in dealing with private plantation owners 
and result in a distortion of price signals and a reduction in prices paid to private 
plantation owners.  
Issue that may raise concern – GFP acquisition 
10. 
The ACCC is also concerned that the GFP acquisition may similarly lead to a 
reduction in the number of woodchip exporters at Bell Bay. This would reduce 
the number of potential buyers of logs, which may increase their buyer power in 
dealing with private plantation owners and result in a distortion of price signals 
and a reduction in prices paid to private plantation owners. 
Issue unlikely to raise concerns – GFP acquisition 
11. 
The ACCC considers that the GFP acquisition is unlikely to raise concerns at 
Burnie. While the acquisition may lead to diversion of exports to a related 
business of GFP this would involve new entry, largely replacing the existing 
second export operator. Further the ACCC understands that GFP/Reliance 
Forest Fibre doesn’t currently purchase logs from private growers to a great 
extent. If it commenced its own export operation at Burnie it may become a 
larger competitor for logs from private plantation owners. 
 


New Forests, and GFP – proposed acquisitions of RMS’ Tasmanian assets 
 
 
Page 3 of 18 
Making a submission 
12. 
The ACCC is seeking submissions from interested parties on the following: 
 
the likely impact of the New Forests and GFP acquisitions on buyers of 
chipping logs, exporters of woodchips and export operations at both 
Burnie and Bell Bay 
 
if there is a reduction in the number of woodchip exporters from Burnie, 
would it affect the price paid to private plantation owners for logs, arising 
from an increase in buyer power? 
 
if there is a reduction in the number of woodchip exporters from Bell Bay, 
would it affect the price paid to private plantation owners for logs? 
13. 
Further discussion of these and other issues, along with specific questions, is 
contained in this Statement of Issues.  
14. 
Interested parties should provide submissions by no later than 5pm on 10 
October 2019. Responses may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the 
title:  
 
Submission re: proposed acquisition(s) of RMS - attention Amelia 
Richardson-Dear/Nigel Vise.  
15. 
If you would like to discuss the matter with ACCC officers over the telephone or 
in person, or have any questions about this Statement of Issues, please contact 
Amelia Richardson-Dear on (07) 3835 4606 or Nigel Vise on (03) 9290 1468.  
16. 
The ACCC anticipates making a final decision on 5 December 2019, however, 
this timeline can change. To keep abreast of possible changes in relation to 
timing and to find relevant documents, interested parties should visit the Mergers 
Register on the ACCC's website at www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
Confidentiality of submissions 
17. 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We 
will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) 
unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation 
or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition 
and Consumer Act 2010.  Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where possible so that you may 
have an opportunity to be heard.  Therefore, if the information provided to the 
ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’ 
18. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well 
as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 


New Forests, and GFP – proposed acquisitions of RMS’ Tasmanian assets 
 
 
Page 4 of 18 
19. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 
20. 
In reaching the views set out in this Statement of Issues the ACCC has taken 
into account information that was provided on a confidential basis.  
Timeline 
 
Date 
Event 
19/07/2019 
ACCC commenced informal review of New Forests 
acquisition under the Informal Merger Review 
Process Guidelines 
05/08/2019 
Closing date for submissions re New Forests 
acquisition 
05/09/2019 
ACCC commenced informal review of GFP 
acquisition under the Informal Merger Review 
Process Guidelines 
12/09/2018 
Closing date for submissions re the GFP acquisition 
26/09/2019 
ACCC published this Statement of Issues 
10/10/2019 
Deadline for submissions from interested parties in 
response to this Statement of Issues 
5/12/2019 
Anticipated date for ACCC final decisions  
 
The parties 
RMS 
21. 
RMS is selling its Tasmanian assets, which are the target of the potential 
acquisitions. 
22. 
RMS is a global forest investment firm, headquartered in Alabama. RMS is 
selling its Tasmanian assets.  These are plantations and a one third share of the 
Plantation Export Group (PEG).  
23. 
RMS owns approximately 36,700ha of freehold land in Tasmania including 
approximately 19,000ha of plantation hardwood eucalyptus. Over 75 per cent of 
these plantations are located in Northwest and Northeast Tasmania. All of its 
Tasmanian products are exported. 
 


New Forests, and GFP – proposed acquisitions of RMS’ Tasmanian assets 
 
 
Page 5 of 18 
 
New Forests 
24. 
New Forests is a fund manager that manages investments in forestry assets for 
a number of investment funds established by it. It provides management 
services to each of those funds.  
25. 
As noted above, one of the proposed purchasers of the RMS assets is a forestry 
investment fund managed by New Forests. The fund does not currently own any 
assets in Tasmania. However, New Forests already manages forestry and 
processing infrastructure in Australia and New Zealand, including in Tasmania, 
on behalf of separate funds, which have different groups of investors to the fund 
that is proposed to acquire the RMS assets. 
26. 
In Tasmania, New Forests manages funds which, if considered collectively, own 
and manage over 85,000 hectares of hardwood plantations and over 45,000 
hectares of softwood plantations. In addition to its hardwood plantations, 
companies owned by New Forests managed funds also acquire hardwood logs 
from private landowners.  
27. 
The assets owned by another fund managed by New Forests are significantly 
vertically integrated. That fund owns Forico, which in turn owns hardwood 
plantations in Northeast and Northwest Tasmania, the Long Reach hardwood 
chipping mill and export facility in Northeast Tasmania, and the Forico Surrey 
Hills hardwood chipping mill in Northwest Tasmania.  
28. 
New Forests markets and exports its hardwood chips and logs to customers 
through its marketing division, New Forests Timber Products. New Forests 
exports its products through the Ports of Burnie, Long Reach and Hobart. Forico 
has a Facility Management Agreement with TasPorts for the use of two of the 
three woodchip stockpiles at Burnie Port and for use of the Port’s export facility. 
GFP 
29. 
Global Forest Partners LP (GFP) is a US-based investment adviser, which 
specialises in the structuring and management of international forestry 
investments. GFP provides advisory and management services to the funds.  
30. 
GFP advises investment funds that own Reliance Forest Fibre. In 2017, Reliance 
Forest Fibre acquired 99 year forestry rights over approximately 27,000 ha of 
hardwood plantations in Tasmania from Sustainable Timber Tasmania (formerly 
Forestry Tasmania). Reliance Forest Fibre also controls a hardwood chipping 
mill and export facility at Bell Bay. 
31. 
Another GFP advised fund owns Australian Bluegum Plantations Pty Limited. 
Australian Bluegum Plantations provides marketing and export services to 
Reliance Forest Fibre from Bell Bay. 


New Forests, and GFP – proposed acquisitions of RMS’ Tasmanian assets 
 
 
Page 6 of 18 
 
Other industry participants 
PEG 
32. 
PEG was established in 2017 and is a joint marketing entity which markets and 
facilitates the export of woodchips to customers in Asia on behalf of RMS and 
other forest growers and processors. RMS, Pentarch and Midway are equal joint 
owners of PEG.  
33. 
Midway has extensive forestry assets in the mainland states. In Tasmania it 
operates as a buyer and aggregator of logs from private plantation owners, 
which it has toll chipped and exported from Bell Bay via PEG. 
34. 
PEG provides a service to chip owners whereby it markets a volume of chips 
aggregated from a number of owners and arranges for those chips to be 
exported.  
35. 
PEG provides a means for the owners of smaller volumes of woodchips to 
access international buyers and achieve a competitive price. It does this by 
aggregating their chips for sale as a single package and finding buyers for the 
aggregated volumes. Without PEG, some sellers of wood chips may not be able 
to reach international buyers and would have to sell to an exporter such as 
Forico (New Forests) or Reliance Forest Fibre (GFP). 
36. 
PEG currently markets woodchips on behalf of its shareholders and Sustainable 
Timber Tasmania. 
Sustainable Timber Tasmania 
37. 
Sustainable Timber Tasmania is a Tasmanian Government Business Enterprise 
responsible under State legislation for sustainably managing approximately 
800,000 hectares of public production forest and undertaking forest operations 
for the production and sale of forest products from these forests. Sustainable 
Timber Tasmania manages native and plantation forests. 
38. 
Sustainable Timber Tasmania has an agreement with TasPorts for the use of a 
stockpile at the Burnie port and Sustainable Timber Tasmania provides others 
with access to this stockpile via comingling arrangements. All of the plantation 
hardwood chips on this stockpile are exported via PEG. The stockpile is also 
used for native hardwood chips and the pile rotates between native and 
plantation chips (comingling of native and plantation chips would result in lower 
sale prices for the plantation chips). 
Other private forest owners 
39. 
New Forests, GFP and RMS are major private plantation owners/managers, with 
large plantation holdings. There are also a large number of other private 
plantation owners, who may be farmers, individuals, or family and investment 
companies. Generally, these owners do not have large plantations and usually 
sell their wood on a one-off basis for processing by other parties. They are 
generally unable to access export markets directly, and sell their logs to agents 


New Forests, and GFP – proposed acquisitions of RMS’ Tasmanian assets 
 
 
Page 7 of 18 
that aggregate logs from multiple plantations and sell them as a bundle to 
chipping mills, or to chipping mills directly. 
Forestry industry background 
Plantation timber 
 
40. 
Plantation timber is differentiated from ‘native’ timber, which is harvested from 
natural forests. Native timber is older than plantation timber and comprises 
multiple species. Timber plantations are made up of a single species. Eucalyptus 
plantations are known as hardwood plantations. 
41. 
Hardwood timber can be used for producing saw logs used in the production of 
furniture, peeler logs used to produce veneer and ply-wood, and wood chips for 
use in paper production. There are different markets and prices for saw logs and 
chipping logs. However, depending on price, saw logs can be chipped. Chipping 
logs cannot be used as saw logs, as they are of a lower quality and age. 
42. 
Generally, hardwood chips are considered to be of a better quality than softwood 
chips, as they have better fibre content and can be used for better quality paper. 
Accordingly, hardwood chips tend to sell at a higher price than softwood chips. 
Similarly, plantation hardwood chips are considered to be better quality than 
native hardwood chips and there is also a price difference between these types 
of chips. 
43. 
Plantation hardwood tends to be harvested around 12-17 years of age for 
chipping. Where it is grown for saw logs, it tends to be older, as this improves 
the quality of the wood.  
Chipping and export 
44. 
The vast majority of hardwood plantation timber produced in Tasmania is 
exported, predominantly as wood chips, but also as whole saw logs. The 
customers are large international pulp and paper mills. 
45. 
Typically small plantation owners are unable to access export markets directly, 
and sell their logs to chipping mills directly, or to agents that aggregate logs from 
multiple plantations and sell them as a bundle to chipping mills. It is largely the 
chipping mills or owners of large plantations that export woodchips. 
46. 
Most chipping mills, including the vertically integrated GFP/Reliance Forest Fibre 
and New Forests, buy logs from private growers or agents. Mills without 
vertically integrated plantations (such as Pentarch – the owner of a chipping mill 
near Burnie) have no choice as they have no plantations of their own. Reliance 
Forest Fibre and New Forests which have their own plantations buy from private 
growers, in order to supplement their own supply if they don’t have enough of 
their own trees maturing and ready for harvest.  
47. 
Accordingly, there are a number of ways that logs can pass through the supply 
chain and enter the wood chip export market: 
 
Vertically integrated growers such as Reliance Forest Fibre and New 
Forests may chip their own logs at their own chipping mills. They also 
buy logs from small growers and agents. 


New Forests, and GFP – proposed acquisitions of RMS’ Tasmanian assets 
 
 
Page 8 of 18 
 
Independent chipping mills may acquire logs from third party growers. 
Logs can be acquired ‘at the mill gate’ where the grower pays for harvest 
and haulage, or ‘at the stump’ where the buyer pays for the harvest and 
haulage. 
 
Agents may acquire logs from a range of small growers, usually ‘at the 
stump’ aggregating them into a large parcel to sell to chipping mills. 
 
Larger growers can pay chipping mills to ‘toll chip’ their logs for them and 
export the chips themselves (via co-mingling arrangements). 
48. 
The ACCC understands that an effective exporter needs access to a large and 
regular supply of chips. Market feedback suggests that in order to be competitive 
in the international market, an exporter needs to supply a minimum of 3 to 4 
ships per year. If an exporter is unable to meet this level of supply, it may have 
difficulty finding an international buyer. Even if it can find a buyer, it is likely to be 
less efficient and therefore less competitive in purchasing domestic logs or chips, 
as it will have less volume over which to spread its fixed operating costs. The 
ACCC understands that it is possible for ships to ‘top up’ at different ports. 
However, this incurs significant additional costs. Therefore having sufficient 
volume for the ships at a single port will result in a lower cost operation.  
Stages in wood chip production 
 
Relevant markets 
Product dimension of the market 
49. 
The ACCC’s review has focussed on the acquisition of chipping logs sourced 
from hardwood plantations. However, the ACCC considers that there are likely to 
be further product markets for the acquisition of: 
 
Chipping logs sourced from native forests 
 
Chipping logs sourced from softwood plantations 
 
Saw or peeler logs. 


New Forests, and GFP – proposed acquisitions of RMS’ Tasmanian assets 
 
 
Page 9 of 18 
50. 
As set out in the background section above, plantation hardwood, plantation 
softwood and native hardwood can all be chipped and used in pulp and paper 
production. However, chips from the different sources of timber have different 
levels of quality that affect price. Hardwood produces better quality paper than 
softwood. Plantation timber comprises a single species, generally of uniform 
age, whereas native timber comprises multiple species with a variety of ages. 
Plantation chips sell for more than native chips. 
Geographic dimension of the market 
51. 
The ACCC has not formed a final view of the appropriate geographic markets. 
However, it understands that there is limited substitution between Bell Bay and 
Burnie, with logs or woodchips generally being transported to the closest port. 
52. 
The ACCC understands there are two main separate export channels for 
plantation hardwood chips from Tasmania: 
 
Northwest Tasmania (Burnie), and 
 
Northeast Tasmania (Bell Bay/ Long Reach). 
53. 
Generally, timber grown to the east of Bell Bay is exported via Bell Bay and, 
timber grown to the west of Burnie is exported from Burnie. Timber grown 
between Burnie and Bell Bay is usually exported from the closest port but may in 
some circumstances be transported to the further port. However, the ACCC 
understands that transporting logs from Northwest Tasmania to Bell Bay for 
chipping and export, or vice versa, would generally not be a competitive 
alternative to using the closest port due to the additional transport costs.  
54. 
The ACCC understands that port costs at Bell Bay are cheaper than at Burnie. 
However, these reduced port costs would generally not offset the additional 
transport costs of trucking logs from the Northwest to Bell Bay, although the 
lower costs shift the point at which Bell Bay becomes viable to the west of the 
line of equidistance between Bell Bay and Burnie.  
55. 
Because there are no chipping mills in the south, chipping logs from southern 
plantations are transported to Bell Bay, often by rail.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


New Forests, and GFP – proposed acquisitions of RMS’ Tasmanian assets 
 
 
Page 10 of 18 
Map of woodchipping mills and export terminals 
 
 
 
 
Woodchip export 
terminal 
 
GFP chipping mill 
 
New Forests 
chipping mill 
 
Third party chipping 
mill 
 
Woodchip exports from the Northwest 
56. 
At present there are two export operators at the Port of Burnie. These are:  
 
Forico (owned by a New Forests managed fund) which has a chipping 
mill (at Surrey Hills, 30km south west of Burnie) and uses the export 
operation of an associated entity (New Forests-managed New Forests 
Timber Products), and  
 
PEG which, as noted above, supplies a marketing service to third 
parties. Generally, the chips PEG exports are chipped by Pentarch at 
Massy-Greene, South Burnie. 
57. 
Forico undertakes its own marketing and export operations (through New 
Forests Timber Products). Forico controls two of three wood chip piles at the 
Burnie port and exports wood chips through New Forest Timber Products. The 


New Forests, and GFP – proposed acquisitions of RMS’ Tasmanian assets 
 
 
Page 11 of 18 
ACCC understands that Forico acquires logs from private growers as well as its 
own plantations. The ACCC is not aware of any third party owner of woodchips 
that has co-mingled its chips with Forico’s chips or used New Forests Timber 
Products’ export and marketing operation. 
58. 
In Burnie, PEG provides a channel for its shareholders and some third parties to 
export woodchips. Market feedback suggests that each of these exporters (with 
the possible exception of RMS) would not have sufficient volumes of plantation 
hardwood chips out of Burnie to independently attract international buyers.  
59. 
In particular, PEG enables Pentarch, which owns the other chipping mill in 
Northwest Tasmania, to export woodchips. Pentarch does not own any 
plantations, instead it competes with Forico to buy logs from private plantation 
owners in the Northwest. 
60. 
The ACCC understands that RMS provides the largest volume of plantation 
hardwood woodchips sold by PEG, and that Sustainable Timber Tasmania is 
currently undertaking a thinning program which is contributing to its volumes. 
 
Woodchip exports from the Northeast 
61. 
At present there are three marketing and export operators in Northeast 
Tasmania:  
 
Australian Bluegum Plantations (which is owned by a fund advised by 
GFP, and exports Reliance Forest Fibre woodchips) at Bell Bay  
 
PEG at Bell Bay, and  


New Forests, and GFP – proposed acquisitions of RMS’ Tasmanian assets 
 
 
Page 12 of 18 
 
New Forests Timber Products (which is owned by a fund managed by 
New Forests and exports Forico’s woodchips) at Long Reach 
(approximately 15km from Bell Bay).  
62. 
Forico (and associated entities) and Reliance Forest Fibre (and associated 
entities) operate at all levels of the vertical supply chain at Bell Bay/Long Reach: 
 
Forico owns plantations and a chipping mill. Associated New Forests-
advised entity New Forests Timber Products owns an export operation 
 
Reliance Forest Fibre owns plantations and a chipping mill. Associated 
GFP-advised entity Australian Bluegum Plantations owns an export 
operation. 
63. 
There is also a third chipping mill owned by Artec which provides toll chipping 
services.  
64. 
PEG provides a marketing and export service to its shareholders (RMS and 
Midway), and also to Sustainable Timber Tasmania, giving each of them an 
export option instead of having to sell to Forico or Reliance Forest Fibre.  
65. 
Midway, Artec, Forico and Reliance Forest Fibre compete with each other to buy 
chipping logs from private plantation owners. By providing an export option for 
Midway in particular, PEG enables them to compete more effectively with Forico 
and Reliance Forest Fibre in the acquisition of logs from private sellers. 
 
 
 
 


New Forests, and GFP – proposed acquisitions of RMS’ Tasmanian assets 
 
 
Page 13 of 18 
Barriers to entry  
Access to sufficient volumes 
66. 
Market feedback suggests that volumes are important to the efficient and 
ongoing operation of a woodchip exporter. Larger volumes allow for more regular 
shipments, shorter periods of stockpiling and stronger bargaining power in 
negotiations with international buyers. Market participants have generally 
reported that the minimum volume for an export operator to be viable is 3-4 ship 
loads per year. Ships generally carry between 40-50,000 Green Metric Tonnes 
(GMT) of woodchips so in order to supply 3-4 ships per year an exporter would 
need minimum volumes of approximately 120,000-160,000 GMT per year.  
67. 
Wood chips deteriorate over time, leading to a reduction in quality and price. The 
ACCC understands that generally the maximum period of stockpiling before 
deterioration is three to four months, meaning that shipments need to be at least 
quarterly. The ACCC also understands that international purchasers are 
prepared to pay more for larger volumes and regular supply.  
68. 
The large plantation owners, Forico, RMS and Reliance Forest Fibre, hold the 
majority of hardwood plantations and therefore the majority of woodchip log 
volumes. Sustainable Timber Tasmania also has a large area of hardwood 
plantation however the ACCC understands that its volumes will reduce in the 
next one to two years.  
69. 
Without access to Forico, Reliance Forest Fibre or RMS volumes, any new 
exporter would find it difficult to accumulate sufficient volumes to be able to 
efficiently export wood chips. Even if it could operate, it is likely sellers using its 
export operation would achieve lower prices and consequently act as a weaker 
constraint on Forico and/or Reliance Forest Fibre in the acquisition of woodchips 
or logs from growers. 
Burnie-specific barriers 
70. 
There are considerable barriers to starting a new woodchip marketing and export 
business from Burnie. Firstly, chips need to be stockpiled at a location where 
they can then be loaded onto ships. At Burnie there is space for three stockpiles. 
Two of these are controlled by Forico and the third is controlled by Sustainable 
Timber Tasmania which provides access to third parties through a comingling 
arrangement. An exporter would need to obtain access to comingle their chips 
on one of these piles. There is no space at Burnie port for an additional pile 
without reconfiguring the infrastructure. 
71. 
There are limitations on comingling, due to differences in woodchips. The 
Sustainable Timber Tasmania pile already alternates between native and 
plantation woodchips. This affects when woodchips can be added and when 
ships can arrive. Sufficient volumes of plantation chips are required to 
accumulate within a period to ensure efficient rotation between native chips and 
plantation chips on the pile. The ACCC also understands that whether or not 
timber is certified can impact access to a pile, as uncertified woodchips 
comingled with certified chips may devalue the entire pile. Market feedback 
suggests that much of the privately owned timber is uncertified. 


New Forests, and GFP – proposed acquisitions of RMS’ Tasmanian assets 
 
 
Page 14 of 18 
Issue of concern (New Forests acquisition): potential for 
the creation of a monopoly for the acquisition and export 
of woodchips in Northwest Tasmania 
Removal of volumes from alternative exporters at Burnie 
72. 
The ACCC considers it likely that if the New Forests acquisition was to proceed, 
New Forests would divert RMS’ volume of woodchips from PEG to Forico’s 
export operation. The loss of RMS’s volume of wood chips would reduce the 
volume of chips available for PEG to market, and there is a significant risk that 
PEG would become commercially unviable and cease to operate from Burnie. It 
is unlikely that there would be sufficient volumes available to support new entry 
to replace PEG. The loss of an alternative export channel would leave Forico as 
the sole exporter of plantation woodchips in Northwest Tasmania.  
73. 
Without a second export channel, buyers of logs from the Northwest such as 
Pentarch would likely have to sell their woodchips to Forico. This would cause 
Pentarch and sellers of logs (such as agents) to become price takers, distorting 
price signals by reducing the price they could pay to private plantation owners 
and weakening the pricing constraint they impose on each other and Forico in 
the acquisition of logs. This may lead to distorted decisions about future 
investment in hardwood plantations.  
ACCC’s preliminary views 
74. 
In view of the apparent importance of RMS’ volumes to the viability or efficiency 
of an alternative hardwood chip marketing and export operation at Burnie, the 
ACCC is concerned that the likely diversion of RMS’ volumes to Forico’s export 
operation following the proposed acquisition would: 
 
lead to the weakening or removal of the second export operation at 
Burnie 
 
leave Forico as the only exporter at Burnie. This would weaken the 
constraint imposed on Forico in the acquisition of logs from growers and 
lead to a distortion of price signals to growers.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to the 
ability of an alternative marketing and export operation to continue to operate at Burnie 
without the volumes of woodchips supplied by RMS, and the impact this would have 
further up the supply chain. In particular, market participants may wish to comment on 
the following: 
 
The volume of woodchips required by an export operator to attract international 
customers and be able to negotiate price with those customers. 
 
The volume of woodchips and plantation logs that would be available at Burnie 
from sources other than Forico and RMS. 
 
The impact on the price paid for hardwood chipping logs in the Burnie area if 
Forico was the only end buyer of woodchips. 


New Forests, and GFP – proposed acquisitions of RMS’ Tasmanian assets 
 
 
Page 15 of 18 
 
The ability of an alternative exporter to export plantation hardwood chips without 
RMS’ volumes. 
Issue that may raise concerns (New Forests acquisition): 
concentration of acquirers of logs from private plantations 
in Northeast Tasmania 
Removal of volumes from alternative exporters at Bell Bay 
75. 
The ACCC also considers that, if the New Forests acquisition proceeds, New 
Forests would likely divert the sale and export of RMS’ chips from PEG to its 
own operation, New Forests Timber Products, in Northeast Tasmania. RMS is 
the largest supplier of volumes marketed and exported by PEG. Market feedback 
suggests that the loss of these volumes creates a significant risk of PEG 
becoming less efficient or commercially unviable and ceasing to operate at Bell 
Bay. 
76. 
If Midway no longer had access to PEG to market and export its woodchips, 
Forico and Reliance Forest Fibre would be its only options to sell to. Forico and 
Reliance Forest Fibre would gain increased buyer power and competing buyers 
would have a reduced ability to effectively compete with Forico and Reliance 
Forest Fibre in the acquisition of logs from private growers or agents. This may 
lead to a reduction in the price they could pay to private plantation owners and 
weaken the pricing constraint they impose on each other, and Reliance Forest 
Fibre and Forico, in the acquisition of hardwood plantation logs. This may then 
lead to distorted decisions about future investment in hardwood plantations.  
ACCC’s preliminary views 
77. 
In view of the apparent importance of RMS’ volumes to the viability or efficiency 
of a third hardwood chip marketing and export operation at Bell Bay, the ACCC 
is concerned that the likely diversion of RMS’ volumes to Forico’s export 
operation following the proposed acquisition may: 
 
lead to the weakening or removal of the third export operation at Bell 
Bay 
 
leave Forico and Australian Bluegum Plantations as the only exporters at 
Bell Bay. This would weaken the constraint imposed on Forico and 
Reliance Forest Fibre in the acquisition of logs from growers and may 
lead to a distortion of price signals to growers.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to the 
ability of an alternative marketing and export operation to continue to operate at Bell 
Bay without the volumes of woodchips supplied by RMS, and the impact this would 
have further up the supply chain. In particular, market participants may wish to 
comment on the following: 
 
The volume of woodchips required by an export operator to attract international 
customers and be able to negotiate price with those customers 
 
The volume of woodchips and plantation logs that would be available at Bell Bay 
from sources other than Forico and RMS. 


New Forests, and GFP – proposed acquisitions of RMS’ Tasmanian assets 
 
 
Page 16 of 18 
 
Does the ability of multiple firms to export through PEG increase competition for 
logs from private plantation owners? 
 
The impact on the price paid for hardwood chipping logs in the Bell Bay area if 
Forico and Reliance Forest Fibre were the only end buyer of woodchips. 
 
The ability of an alternative exporter to export plantation hardwood chips without 
RMS’ volumes. 
 
Is it feasible to export both plantation and native chips in the same vessel without 
mingling them (i.e. in separate cargo holds)? Could the native and plantation chips 
be sold to the same buyer? Would there be additional costs in shipping two types 
of chips? 
Issue that may raise concerns (GFP acquisition): 
concentration of acquirers of logs from private plantations 
in Northeast Tasmania  
Removal of volumes from alternative exporters at Bell Bay 
78. 
The ACCC considers that, if the GFP acquisition proceeds, GFP would likely 
divert the sale and export of RMS’ chips from PEG to its related operation, 
Australian Bluegum Plantations. RMS is the largest supplier of volumes 
marketed and exported by PEG. Market feedback suggests that the loss of these 
volumes creates a significant risk of PEG becoming less efficient or 
commercially unviable and ceasing to operate at Bell Bay. 
79. 
If Midway no longer had access to PEG to market and export its woodchips, 
Forico and Reliance Forest Fibre would be its only options to sell to. Forico and 
Reliance Forest Fibre would gain increased buyer and competing buyers, such 
as Midway, would have a reduced ability to effectively compete with Forico and 
Reliance Forest Fibre in the acquisition of logs from private growers or agents. 
This may lead to a reduction in the price they could pay to private plantation 
owners and weaken the pricing constraint they impose on each other, and 
Reliance Forest Fibre and Forico, in the acquisition of hardwood plantation logs. 
This may then lead to distorted decisions about future investment in hardwood 
plantations.  
ACCC’s preliminary views 
80. 
In view of the apparent importance of RMS’ volumes to the viability or efficiency 
of a third hardwood chip marketing and export operation at Bell Bay, the ACCC 
is concerned that the likely diversion of RMS’ volumes to Australian Bluegum 
Plantations’ export operation following the proposed acquisition may: 
 
lead to the weakening or removal of the third export operation at Bell 
Bay 
 
leave Forico and Australian Bluegum Plantations as the only exporters at 
Bell Bay. This would weaken the constraint imposed on Forico and 
Reliance Forest Fibre in the acquisition of logs from growers and may 
lead to a distortion of price signals to growers.  


New Forests, and GFP – proposed acquisitions of RMS’ Tasmanian assets 
 
 
Page 17 of 18 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to the 
ability of an alternative marketing and export operation to continue to operate at Bell 
Bay without the volumes of woodchips supplied by RMS, and the impact this would 
have further up the supply chain. In particular, market participants may wish to 
comment on the following: 
 
The volume of woodchips required by an export operator to attract international 
customers and be able to negotiate price with those customers 
 
The volume of woodchips and plantation logs that would be available at Bell Bay 
from sources other than Reliance Forest Fibre and RMS. 
 
Does the ability of multiple firms to export through PEG increase competition for 
logs from private plantation owners? 
 
The impact on the price paid for hardwood chipping logs in the Bell Bay area if 
Forico and Reliance Forest Fibre were the only end buyer of woodchips. 
 
The ability of an alternative exporter to export plantation hardwood chips without 
RMS’ volumes. 
 
Is it feasible to export both plantation and native chips in the same vessel without 
mingling them (i.e. in separate cargo holds)? Could the native and plantation chips 
be sold to the same buyer? Would there be additional costs in shipping two types 
of chips? 
Issue unlikely to raise concerns (GFP acquisition): impacts 
in Northwest Tasmania  
Removal of volumes from alternative exporters at Burnie 
81. 
Reliance Forest Fibre currently markets and exports its own woodchips from Bell 
Bay via a related entity, Australian Bluegum Plantations. However Australian 
Bluegum Plantations does not currently operate from Burnie. 
82. 
The ACCC considers it likely that if the GFP Acquisition was to proceed, 
Australian Bluegum Plantations would commence operating from Burnie and 
GFP would divert RMS’ volume of woodchips from PEG to Australian Bluegum 
Plantations’ export operation. The loss of RMS’ volume of wood chips would 
reduce the volume of chips available for PEG to market, and there is a significant 
risk that PEG would become commercially unviable and cease to operate from 
Burnie.  
83. 
The entry of Australian Bluegum Plantations would act to replace PEG, so the 
number of export operations from Burnie would be unchanged. There may be a 
slight reduction in competition, as PEG acts to facilitate multiple exporters 
whereas Australian Bluegum Plantations would most likely be a single exporter. 
However, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that this is unlikely to amount to a 
substantial lessening of competition.  
84. 
The GFP acquisition may mean that buyers of logs from the Northwest such as 
Pentarch would have to sell their woodchips to Forico or Reliance Forest Fibre 
rather than having the option to export directly, as is the case with PEG. 


New Forests, and GFP – proposed acquisitions of RMS’ Tasmanian assets 
 
 
Page 18 of 18 
Pentarch may become a weaker competitor in the acquisition of logs from private 
plantation owners. However, the entry of Australian Bluegum Plantations may 
mean that Reliance Forest Fibre would become a buyer of logs from private 
plantation owners, which the ACCC understands it only does to a small extent at 
present in the Northwest.  
ACCC's future steps 
85. 
The ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on each of the 
issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that may be 
relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. Submissions are to be 
received by the ACCC no later than 10 October 2019 and should be emailed to 
mergers@accc.gov.au. 
86. 
The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
87. 
The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 5 December 2019. 
However the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose 
of explaining the ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's 
public announcement to explain its final view. 
