Gompetition and Gonsumer Act
2010
Variation to an Undertaking given to the
Australian Competition and Consumer
Commission under section 878
Given by Skandinavisk Holding A/S and Swedish Match A/B


Persons giving this Variation
1.'l This Variation is given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (AGCC)
by:
(a) Skandinavisk Holding A/S (SH), on behalf of itself and its subsidiaries including its
wholly owned subsidiary Scandinavian Tobacco Group AJS (STG); and
(a) Swedish Match AB (SM), on behalf of itself and its subsidiaries including its wholly
owned subsidiary, Swedish Match Australia Pty Limited CAN 081 215 321 (SM
Australia);
(together the Parties)
1.2 A reference in this Variation to 'the Parties' refers to SH and SM both jointly and
severally.
2 Background
2.2
21
On 29 September 2010, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (AGCC)
accepted an undertaking (the Undertaking) under section 878 of the Trade Practices
Act 1974 (now cited as the Competition and Consumer Act 2010) (the Act) from the
Parties in connection with the Proposed Merger.
The Parties have applied to the ACCC to vary the Undertaking with the purpose of
extending the period in which to produce regular Auditor's Reports to the ACCC.
Gommencement
3.1 This Variation comes into effect when:
this Variation is executed by the Parties; and
the Commission accepts this Variation so executed.
Variation to clause 8.5 - Gompliance Audit
4.1 Clause 8.5(c) of the Undertaking is amended by inserting"the Auditor's Repoft following
the Divestiture Date. Thereafterthe Auditor's Repoft rs fo be provided every 3 months
until" after the word " untif' .
4.2 The varied Clause 8.5(c) of the Undertaking will accordingly read as follows:
The Approved lndependent Auditor is to provide the first Auditor's Report to the ACCC
and the Parties within 10 Business Days of the Completion Date and thereafter every
month until the Auditor's Report following the Divestiture Date. Thereafter the Auditor's
Report is to be provided every 3 months until the termination of this Undertaking.
(a)
(b)
5 Defined terms and interpretat¡on
Any term defined in the Undertaking and not defined in this Variation has the meaning
given in the Undertaking, unless the contrary intention appears.
Variation means this variation to the Undertaking.
Page 1
Variation to an Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission under section 878.
Given by Skandinavisk Holding A/S and Swedish Match A/8.
5.1
5.2


Signed by Skandinavisk Holding A/S by its
authorised signatory:
lPositionl \
' -Ì4^i.J . þtpÆ1Ã7Y
ffttteW¡¡¡
äfj.n¡s D^Gaee oØe(r,€Ñ
Signed by Swedish Match A/B bY its
authorised signatory:
GeneralCounsel CEO
a/ g - Lotl
Accepted by The Australian Gompetition
and Gonsumer Gommission pursuant to
section 878
Graeme Julian Samuel
Chairman
Date:
Page2
Variation to an Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission under section 87B'
Given by Skandinavisk Holding A/S and Swedish Match A/8.
