 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Our Ref:  
42410 
Contact Officers: 
Darren Toh 
Nick Cooke 
Contact Phone: 
(02) 9230 9183 
(02) 9230 3858 
 
 
 
 
2 September 2010 
 
 
 
Dear interested party, 
 
Scandinavian Tobacco Group A/S – proposed acquisition of Swedish Match AB 
  
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is currently 
reviewing the proposed acquisition by Scandinavian Tobacco Group A/S (STG) of 
Swedish Match AB (SM) (the proposed acquisition) to determine whether it would 
have the effect, or likely effect, of substantially lessening competition in a market, as 
required by Section 50 of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (the Act).  
 
The ACCC’s review of the proposed merger is still ongoing, and the ACCC has not 
formed a final view as to whether the proposed merger is likely to substantially lessen 
competition under section 50 of the Act. 
 
In seeking the ACCC’s approval of the proposed acquisition, SM and STG have 
offered to divest the following brands to an independent party/s for ongoing supply in 
Australia: 
 
 the Wee Willem and Willem II cigar brands; and 
 
 the Erinmore pipe tobacco brand. 
 
This divestiture proposal is offered in the form of a court-enforceable undertaking 
under section 87B of the Act (the proposed undertaking), a copy of which can be 
found by following the ‘Public register’ link to the ACCC’s ‘Mergers register’ on the 
ACCC’s website at www.accc.gov.au. 
 
I welcome any comments that you may wish to make generally in relation to the 
proposed undertaking offered by STG and SM, and whether the proposed undertaking 
would be sufficient to ensure that the proposed acquisition would not substantially 
lessen competition in any market. The specific issues on which we would appreciate 
your response are outlined at Attachment A.  
 
 
1


While written comments are greatly appreciated, you are also welcome to discuss the 
matter by telephone if that is more suitable. Your contact should be Darren Toh on 
(02) 9230 9183 or Nick Cooke on (02) 9230 3858. Alternatively, correspondence can 
be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au: attention Darren Toh and Nick Cooke.  
 
If any information provided is of a confidential nature, you can be assured that the 
details provided by you will be treated confidentially. That is, the ACCC will not 
disclose the confidential information to the merger parties or other third parties, other 
than advisors or consultants engaged directly by the ACCC, without first providing 
you with notice of its intention to do so, such as where it is compelled to do so by law. 
Please note that any information provided which you believe to be of a confidential 
nature should be clearly marked or identified as confidential. 
 
The ACCC requests comments and responses by 5:00pm on 10 September 2010.  
 
Yours sincerely 
 
Rami Greiss 
General Manager 
Merger Investigations Branch 
 
 
 
 
2


ATTACHMENT A 
 
Proposed divestitures – Wee Willem and Willem II cigar brands, Erinmore pipe 
tobacco brand 
 
1. Please address the extent to which: 
 
(a) the Wee Willem and Willem II cigar brands; and 
 
(b) the Erinmore pipe tobacco brand;  
 
would be sufficient to provide a commercially practical business and an effective 
competitive alternative to the merged firm in Australia, in terms of brand loyalty, 
market positioning, product quality, sales volumes, distribution arrangements or 
any other relevant factor. 
 
2. STG proposes to retain ownership of the Erinmore pipe tobacco recipe and supply 
the Erinmore pipe tobacco products at cost to the purchaser of the Erinmore brand. 
Please address the extent to which this arrangement would allow the purchaser to 
maintain effective and independent competition to the merged firm 
 
3. Please address the extent to which contract or toll manufacturing by the merged 
firm, for a six month transitional period until the purchaser/s of the divested 
brands arrange independent manufacturing of the relevant products, would 
maintain effective and independent competition to the merged firm. 
 
4. Please identify any transitional issues that would arise prior or subsequent to 
completion of any divestitures such as the maintenance of the value of the relevant 
divested brands and any other intellectual property, security of existing sales 
volumes, retention of any key staff, necessary third party approvals, distribution 
arrangements, and the orderly continuation of supply of essential inputs (e.g. 
packaging). 
 
Possible purchaser/s of the proposed divested brands 
 
5. Please identify any likely purchaser/s of the Wee Willem and Willem II cigar 
brands and/or the Erinmore pipe tobacco brand.  
 
6. Are there any potential purchasers of the brand/s who would cause you concern in 
relation to the competition in any market? Are there any potential purchasers of 
the brand/s which would not address competition concerns that may otherwise 
arise as a consequence of the proposed acquisition? In responding to these 
questions, please provide an explanation why the potential purchaser would give 
rise to concerns.  
 
 
 
3
