 
 
1 
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
tel: (02) 6243 1368
mergers@accc.gov.au
www.accc.gov.au
Our ref:  
IM-70340 
 
 
Contact officer:  
Georgia Zele/Matthew Chan 
Contact phone:  
(02) 9230 9103; (02) 9230 3873   
1 October 2019 
Dear Interested Party 
Request for submissions: Propel Funeral Partners Limited’s proposed 
acquisition of Gregson & Weight Funeral Directors 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
the proposed acquisition of Codfern Pty Ltd, which trades as Gregson & Weight Funeral 
Directors (G&W), by a subsidiary of Propel Funeral Partners Limited (Propel) (proposed 
acquisition). 
Propel and G&W both provide funeral services in the Sunshine Coast and surrounding 
areas in Queensland. Further details can be found at Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact on competition and in particular, we are 
seeking your views on: 
 
how closely Propel and G&W compete with each other in supply of funeral director 
services and cremation services in the Sunshine Coast region  
 
the impact of the proposed acquisition on prices and service levels for funeral 
directing and/or cremation services 
 
the extent to which Propel may have the ability and incentive to restrict access 
and/or increase prices at the Buderim Crematorium.  
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in 
section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions 
that are likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
Please provide your response by no later than 5pm on Wednesday 16 October 2019. 
Responses may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: Submission re: 
Propel/G&W - attention Georgia Zele and Matthew Chan. If you would like to arrange a 


 
2 
time to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any questions about this letter, 
please contact Georgia Zele on (02) 9230 9103 or Matthew Chan on (02) 9230 3873.  
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public 
Mergers Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We will not 
disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by 
law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or during court proceedings) or 
in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010.  Where the 
ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, the ACCC will notify you in advance 
where possible so that you may have an opportunity to be heard.  Therefore, if the 
information provided to the ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our 
Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
Tom Leuner 
General Manager 
Merger Investigations 


 
 
3 
Attachment A 
Propel  
 
Propel is a Sydney-based publicly listed company which operates in the death care 
industry in Australia and New Zealand. It owns funeral director companies, along with 
cemeteries, crematoria and related assets. Propel operates from 120 locations, 
including 28 cremation facilities and 9 cemeteries.  
Propel supplies funeral directing services on the Sunshine Coast and surrounding 
areas under the ‘Premier Funerals’ brand. Propel has a site in Currimundi and owns 
and operates the Buderim Crematorium, which provides cremation services, chapel 
services and memorial sites.  
Premier Funerals also supplies funeral director services from a site in Oxley, in the 
Brisbane region.  
G&W 
 
G&W started operating in the 1970s and is the largest funeral services provider in the 
Sunshine Coast region. G&W provides funeral directing services from four locations: 
Caloundra, Buderim, Nambour and Noosaville. It operates crematoria at three of 
those sites: Caloundra, Nambour and Noosaville.   
 
The proposed acquisition  
 
Propel proposes to acquire 100% of the issued share capital in Codfern Pty Ltd 
(trading as Gregson & Weight Funerals), and certain freehold properties on the 
Sunshine Coast.  
 
Propel proposes to acquire all assets and facilities associated with the operation of 
the G&W funeral business (as seen in Table 1) as well as the freehold properties 
from which the businesses operates in Caloundra, Buderim and Nambour. It will also 
lease the property situated in Noosaville.  
 
Table 1: Parties' funeral directing and crematoria services in the 
Sunshine Coast region 
Owner 
Brand  
Funeral director 
sites 
Crematoria 
sites 
Propel 
Premier Funerals 
Currimundi 
Buderim 
Gregson & Weight 
Funerals 
Gregson & Weight 
Funeral Directors 
Buderim 
Caloundra 
Nambour 
Noosaville 
Caloundra 
Nambour 
Noosaville 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
4 
Attachment B 
1. Please provide a description of your business or organisation.  
2. Please outline the reasons for your interest in the proposed acquisition, including 
any commercial relationship(s) with either of Propel or G&W. 
Relevant market(s) 
3. Please discuss the key factors (such as geographic proximity, price, quality and 
available amenities) which influence:  
a. consumer choice for funeral directing services  
b. consumer choice when selecting a location for funeral and/or memorial 
ceremonies 
c. funeral director choice of location for cremation services for ‘no 
attendance’ cremations. 
Please provide reasons for your views.  
Funeral directing services  
4. Please discuss how closely and in what ways Propel and G&W compete in the 
supply of funeral directing and/or cremation services in the Sunshine Coast 
region.  
5. For all funeral directors in the Sunshine Coast region (including Propel and 
G&W), please outline:  
a) size and location of their sites 
b) services offered (e.g. price and range of services offered) 
c) type and quality of amenities available (e.g. chapels, viewing rooms, catering 
and memorial gardens) 
d) reputation in the area. 
6. Identify any suppliers that compete particularly closely with those of Propel and/or 
G&W (e.g. due to location or services offered).  
7. To what extent do funeral directors located outside the Sunshine Coast region 
compete for Sunshine Coast customers?   
Crematorium services 
Access to services at the Buderim Crematorium 
8. The ACCC understands Propel’s Buderim Crematorium is the only crematorium 
in the Sunshine Coast region which provides third party services to competing 
funeral directors. To what extent will Propel have the ability or incentive to restrict 
access and/or increase prices at the Buderim Crematorium if the proposed 
acquisition proceeds? 
9. In the instance that funeral directors in the Sunshine Coast region could no 
longer access the Buderim Crematorium, what facilities would they use for:  
a) cremations 
b) ceremonies 
c) memorialisations.   


 
5 
New crematoria in the Sunshine Coast region  
10. Please identify potential new entrants to the supply of crematorium services 
(including cremations, chapel, memorial gardens etc.) in the Sunshine Coast 
region. In your response, please provide details regarding: 
a) estimated time and cost of market entry, and the extent to which such costs 
would not be recoverable upon exiting the market 
b) the minimum size of operations required for entering the market (e.g. number 
of cremations) 
c) any regulatory barriers, such as environmental or planning regulations  
d) the importance of reputation 
e) long term trends for cremation services (including consumer demand and 
industrial cremation sites).  
11. If Propel restricted access to and/or increased prices for cremation services for 
competing funeral home operators, how likely is it that those operators may open 
their own competing crematorium or sponsor a third party’s entry (having regard 
to the factors listed in the question above)? 
Other information or competition issues 
12. Please provide any additional information or comments (including broader 
information or comments regarding the industry) that you consider relevant to the 
ACCC’s consideration of the proposed acquisition under section 50 of the Act.  
 
 
 
