 
Page 1 of 11 
 
Statement of Issues 
19 December 2013 
 iSentia Pty Limited - proposed acquisition of Australian 
Associated Press Pty Limited's media monitoring business 
Introduction 
1. 
Outlined below is the Statement of Issues released by the Australian 
Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) on the proposed acquisition of 
Australian Associated Press Pty Limited's media monitoring business by iSentia 
Pty Limited (proposed acquisition). 
2. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well 
as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
3. 
In line with the ACCC’s Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines (at 
www.accc.gov.au/processguidelines) the ACCC has established a secondary 
timeline for further consideration of the issues. The ACCC anticipates completing 
further market inquiries by 31 January 2014 and anticipates making a final 
decision on 20 February 2014. However, the anticipated timeline can change in 
line with the Merger Review Process Guidelines. To keep abreast of possible 
changes in relation to timing and to find relevant documents, market participants 
should visit the Mergers Register on the ACCC's website at 
www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
4. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 
Background 
5. 
The proposed acquisition was publicly announced by the parties on 29 October 
2013 and the ACCC commenced a public review on the same day. 
6. 
iSentia proposes to acquire the assets of AAP’s media monitoring division, 
Newscentre. The assets principally comprise AAP's media monitoring contracts 
with its existing monitoring clients. The transaction is conditional on ACCC 
approval. If the transaction is approved, AAP’s media monitoring business will be 
integrated with iSentia. 


iSentia Pty Limited - proposed acquisition of Australian Associated Press Pty 
Limited’s media monitoring business 
 
Page 2 of 11 
The parties 
iSentia Pty Limited 
7. 
iSentia (formerly Media Monitors) is a privately owned media intelligence 
company with operations in Australia, New Zealand and Asia. It provides media 
intelligence services to over 6,000 clients in the Asia Pacific region by collecting 
and analysing information from publicly available print, online news, social media 
and broadcast sources. iSentia has more than 1,400 employees across 15 
countries.  
Australian Associated Press Pty Limited 
8. 
Founded in 1935, AAP is Australia’s national news agency distributing 
independent news and information to the Australian media and the private and 
public sectors. AAP is owned by Fairfax Group, News Group, Seven West Media 
Limited and Associated Newspapers Ltd. AAP has over 800 employees 
worldwide. AAP currently provides media monitoring services to clients through 
its Newscentre division. 
Other market participants 
9. 
The following providers supply online media monitoring services, or can be used 
to search online media outlets: 
 
Meltwater – Meltwater offers a range of services that help companies 
monitor, analyse and manage their brand online. Meltwater provides online 
media monitoring through its Meltwater News service that searches all freely 
available web content in Australia and globally for client’s keywords. 
Meltwater also provides social media monitoring and analysis through its  
 
Google News – Google News is a free online news aggregator that 
searches thousands of online publications to present the most relevant and 
up-to-date information on its homepage. Google News includes news 
articles that have been published within the previous 30 days and users can 
search by using keywords. An additional service called Google News Alerts 
allows users to set-up keyword ‘alerts’, where articles containing these 
keywords will be emailed to the user. 
Market inquiries 
10. 
On 29 October the ACCC commenced market inquiries regarding the proposed 
acquisition. A range of interested parties provided responses, including 
customers, suppliers of online media monitoring or media intelligence services 
and other interested parties. 
Future with and without the acquisition 
11. 
Section 50 of the Act prohibits mergers or acquisitions that would have the effect 
or be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
In assessing a proposed acquisition pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC 
considers the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future competitive 
environment post-acquisition if the acquisition proceeds (the “with” position) to 
the likely future competitive environment if the acquisition does not proceed (the 
“without” position) to determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in any relevant market. 


iSentia Pty Limited - proposed acquisition of Australian Associated Press Pty 
Limited’s media monitoring business 
 
Page 3 of 11 
12. 
AAP has publicly stated that it made a decision to divest itself of its media 
monitoring business to enable it to develop its key editorial services and identify 
investment opportunities that will complement and support its core business 
activities. AAP has not made any statement regarding the future of its 
Newscentre division in the absence of the proposed acquisition. The ACCC is 
continuing to assess the information available to it regarding the likely future 
competitive environment without the proposed acquisition. 
Areas of overlap and market definition 
13. 
The ACCC considers that AAP and iSentia overlap in the provision of media 
monitoring services. The ACCC notes that the parties both offer media 
monitoring services in relation to print, broadcast and online media. 
14. 
The ACCC also considers that the provision of media intelligence services may 
be relevant to the ACCC’s assessment of the competitive impact of the proposed 
acquisition, although AAP’s media intelligence business is not subject to the 
proposed acquisition and AAP will continue to supply such services 
independently to iSentia following the proposed acquisition. 
Product dimension 
15. 
Media monitoring is the activity of monitoring the output of media outlets. The 
activity is typically done by, or on behalf of, corporations and government entities 
who are interested in being informed of news media coverage of their 
organisations or issues of interest to them. Providers of media monitoring 
services, such as iSentia and AAP, analyse a broad range of media and provide 
copies of relevant text articles from print or online sources, or clips or summaries 
of broadcast media to customers based on the customer’s monitoring 
requirements, such as reports including certain keywords or referencing 
specified people or organisations. 
16. 
There are three main forms of media which are the subject of media monitoring 
activities: 
 
print - physical newspapers and magazines, 
 
broadcast - television and radio stations  
 
online - content available on the internet, including from news outlets, blogs, 
social media and other outlets. 
17. 
In 2006, the ACCC reviewed the acquisition of Rehame Australia Monitoring 
Services by iSentia (then known as Media Monitors). At the time, the ACCC 
concluded that there were separate markets for the supply of print and broadcast 
monitoring. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that due to the growth of online 
media content and the apparent convergence of news media being delivered 
through multiple channels (print, broadcast and online) it may no longer be 
appropriate to define the product market according to the separate forms of 
media (print, broadcast and online).  
18. 
While the ACCC does not consider that monitoring of print, broadcast and online 
media are necessarily substitutable from a demand or supply side perspective, 
the ACCC considers that the complementary nature of print, broadcast and 
online media monitoring services means that a substantial segment of customers 
will prefer to monitor two or more channels of media. Further, information 
obtained by the ACCC suggests that some suppliers of media monitoring 


iSentia Pty Limited - proposed acquisition of Australian Associated Press Pty 
Limited’s media monitoring business 
 
Page 4 of 11 
services may only compete for customers who have limited media monitoring 
requirements, such as only online media content.  
19. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that for the purpose of this review, it is 
appropriate to consider the proposed acquisition in the context of a single 
product market for the supply of media monitoring services. However, the ACCC 
considers that customers of media monitoring services have a range of 
preferences in relation to the breadth of media that they require a monitoring 
service provider to monitor and further considers that suppliers of media 
monitoring services vary considerably in the level of customisation and breadth 
of monitoring that they are capable of providing.  
20. 
Information obtained by the ACCC suggests that there are a significant number 
of corporate and government organisations who require a broad spectrum of 
print, broadcast and online media to be monitored in order for them to be 
adequately informed about how their organisation is publicly perceived or issues 
which are of interest to them (Major Customers). Other organisations, 
particularly smaller businesses, have more specific or more limited requirements 
in relation to the breadth of media which they seek to monitor (Smaller 
Customers). The ACCC considers that these different customer preferences 
have important implications for the ACCC’s analysis of the competitive effects of 
the proposed acquisition, as outlined below.  
21. 
Media intelligence services are services which analyse selections of 
disseminated media (often provided by a media monitoring service provider) in 
order to provide customers with information about how their organisation is being 
reported in the media, or which summarises information about that organisation’s 
coverage in the media. Media intelligence services are often considered to be a 
complementary, or value-added, service to media monitoring services.  
Geographic dimension 
22. 
Both iSentia and AAP offer media monitoring services on a national basis. While 
the ACCC is aware of a number of media monitoring or media analysis 
companies which provide services on a more limited state-wide or regional 
basis, market inquiries indicate that such services are not substitutable for a 
significant proportion of media monitoring clients, including companies that 
operate nationally and federal government departments or agencies. The ACCC 
has not found evidence that such customers would be willing to acquire media 
monitoring services from multiple providers servicing different geographic 
regions.  
23. 
Given this, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that it is appropriate to consider the 
impact of the proposed acquisition in the national markets for the supply of the 
relevant services. 
Conclusion 
24. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the following markets are likely to be 
relevant in assessing the proposed acquisition: 
 
the national market for the supply of media monitoring services, and 
 
the national market for the supply of media intelligence services. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its proposed definition of the 
relevant markets.  


iSentia Pty Limited - proposed acquisition of Australian Associated Press Pty 
Limited’s media monitoring business 
 
Page 5 of 11 
Industry Dynamics 
25. 
The ACCC notes that the channels through which media is delivered and the 
channels through which consumers prefer to access media have changed 
significantly over the past 10 years. Specifically, the ACCC notes: 
 
Growth in online media – the volume and breadth of online print media has 
continued to grow significantly in recent years with the two major publishers 
in Australia, Fairfax Media Limited and News Corp Australia, publishing the 
majority of their traditional print media online through their numerous news 
websites and also publishing a substantial amount of online-only news 
content. Additionally, there are a growing number of online-only news 
websites. 
 
 
Decline in print media – growth in the availability of online media has 
coincided with a decline in the number of traditional print media news 
articles published in hardcopy newspapers and magazines and subsequent 
decline in sales of newspaper and magazines in the publishing industry 
more generally. 
 
 
Preferences of consumers – consumers have demonstrated a growing 
preference for online media over traditional print media, in part driven by the 
timeliness of news published online, the convenience of access to news 
content through mobile devices or computers and the increasingly multi-
media nature of news content. 
26. 
Despite the above factors, the ACCC notes that many industry participants 
expressed a strong preference for monitoring of traditional print media and did 
not expect their preferences to change in the next two to three years. Major 
Customers indicated to the ACCC that even where print news stories were 
duplicated in online formats, inclusion and placement in print news editions 
provided an indication of how important those stories were likely to be viewed by 
the public. In addition, market participants submitted to the ACCC that there was 
a material amount of content in print editions which was not included in online 
editions. 
27. 
For these reasons, many customers of media monitoring services considered 
that online-only media monitoring services, especially those limited to free online 
media content, were not substitutable for media monitoring services that 
monitored traditional print media.  
28. 
Many industry participants also noted that broadcast media, delivered through 
radio or television, remains highly relevant. Thus, they did not consider that a 
media monitoring service which only monitored online text sources to be 
substitutable for a media monitoring service that monitored broadcast media.  
29. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that there are a significant number of Major 
Customers of media monitoring services which have strong preferences for a 
media monitoring service which includes the monitoring of traditional print and 
broadcast media.  
30. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that while it is difficult to predict with certainty, a 
significant segment of consumers of media monitoring services are likely to 
maintain a preference for monitoring traditional print media from the major 


iSentia Pty Limited - proposed acquisition of Australian Associated Press Pty 
Limited’s media monitoring business 
 
Page 6 of 11 
Australian publishers in the foreseeable future. In addition, it seems likely that 
customers will retain a strong preference to monitor broadcast media for the 
foreseeable future. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the dynamic nature of 
customer preferences in relation to media monitoring. In particular, market participants 
may wish to comment on: 
 
Whether traditional print media is likely to remain relevant to customers in the 
foreseeable future (i.e. two to three years). 
 
The extent to which the monitoring of online media content is currently 
considered to be substitutable for monitoring of traditional print media and 
whether this is likely to change in the next two to three years.  
 
The extent to which the monitoring of online media content is currently 
considered to be substitutable for monitoring of broadcast media and whether 
this is likely to change in the next two to three years.  
 
Whether technological innovation and increasing preference for online media 
content is likely to make in-house monitoring of media a financially viable and 
plausible alternative to obtaining the services of a media monitoring provider. 
Statement of issues 
31. 
For the purposes of this Statement of Issues, the issues in this matter are 
divided into two categories, 'issues of concern' and 'issues that may raise 
concerns'‘. 
Issues of concern 
Market for the supply of media monitoring services 
32. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition would result in a 
substantial lessening of competition in the national market for the supply of 
media monitoring services. The proposed acquisition would result in the removal 
of iSentia’s closest competitor in the supply of these services and would result in 
there being no other supplier of media monitoring services in Australia which 
monitors all forms of media on a national basis, including print and broadcast 
media. 
33. 
The ACCC’s concerns are in relation to the supply of media monitoring services 
to Major Customers. Information available to the ACCC suggests that Smaller 
Customers have a number of options to meet their needs, however that is not 
the case for Major Customers who have more extensive media monitoring 
requirements.  
Competitive constraints 
34. 
In relation to Smaller Customers, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the merged 
entity would face constraints from a number of sources, including: 
 
Providers of online-only media monitoring services. A number of 
organisations, such as Meltwater, provide media monitoring services based 
on text-based media that is freely accessible on the Internet. These services 


iSentia Pty Limited - proposed acquisition of Australian Associated Press Pty 
Limited’s media monitoring business 
 
Page 7 of 11 
do not monitor internet content which is protected by paywalls and do not 
capture audio-visual media.  
 
User-controlled services. Tools such as Google News or automated alert 
services offered by particular media outlets enable organisations to have a 
degree of visibility over media coverage of their organisation or issues of 
interest to them. 
35. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the existence of these options is likely to 
constrain the ability of the merged entity to increase the price that it offers for its 
services to these Smaller Customers, with modest media monitoring 
requirements.  
36. 
However, the ACCC’s market inquiries have indicated that online-only media 
monitoring services or user-controlled services are not sufficient to meet the 
media monitoring requirements of Major Customers. These market participants 
have indicated that AAP is iSentia’s only material competitor in the supply of 
media monitoring services due to the breadth of media that is monitored by their 
services. In particular, Major Customers commonly indicated that AAP and 
iSentia were currently the only media monitoring providers which were able to 
provide a satisfactory level of print and broadcast monitoring, and that this was 
an important service for their organisations. 
37. 
The ACCC’s market inquiries indicated that Major Customers do not regard 
online-only media monitoring services as substitutable for monitoring services 
that include print and broadcast media monitoring. This is due to the significant 
amount of relevant media that is not currently captured by online-only monitoring 
services as well as a strong preference for, and emphasis placed on, relevant 
print media. Market participants noted that the increasing prevalence of paywalls 
for online content were further limiting the utility of online-only monitoring 
services, which generally access media that is freely available.  
38. 
Major Customers indicated to the ACCC that self-supplying extensive media 
monitoring services that include the monitoring of print and broadcast media, by 
providing them in-house, was commercially impractical. Major Customers noted 
the breadth of their monitoring requirements, including access to regional 
content, resource requirements (particularly relating to the active monitoring of 
broadcast media), difficulties in obtaining the necessary copyright licences and 
cost as reasons why it would not be practical to attempt to conduct extensive 
media monitoring services in-house.  
39. 
Given the lack of any other national suppliers of  media monitoring services that 
include print and broadcast media, the weak substitution option presented by 
online-only or user-controlled media monitoring services for Major Customers 
and the inability of most Major Customers to exercise countervailing power, the 
ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition would represent a 
significant reduction in the level of competitive constraint faced by iSentia in 
relation to this customer segment. 
40. 
The ACCC notes that prices in the media monitoring market, particularly in 
relation to Major Customers, are individually negotiated. Thus, the fact the 
merged entity may face constraints in relation to its pricing to the Minor 
Customer segment would not prevent it from exercising pricing power in relation 
to Major Customers. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the competitive constraints 
that the merged entity will face following the proposed acquisition, including: 


iSentia Pty Limited - proposed acquisition of Australian Associated Press Pty 
Limited’s media monitoring business 
 
Page 8 of 11 
 
The extent to which Major Customers, which have extensive media monitoring 
preferences, are an important segment of the overall media monitoring market. 
 
The extent to which the merged entity will face constraints in relation to the 
supply of media monitoring services to Smaller Customers. 
 
The extent to which the merged entity will face constraints in relation to the 
supply of media monitoring services to Major Customers. 
 
The extent to which it is practical for Major Customers to supply their media 
monitoring services in-house. 
 
Whether there are any other companies which should be considered as close 
competitors to iSentia and AAP in the supply of media monitoring services in the 
supply of media monitoring services to Major Customers. 
Barriers to Entry  
41. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that there are barriers to entry in supplying a 
media monitoring service which monitors a broad range of media, including print 
and broadcast media.  
42. 
In 2006, the ACCC reviewed the acquisition of Rehame Australia Monitoring 
Services by iSentia (then known as Media Monitors). At the time, the ACCC 
concluded that there were separate markets for the supply of print and broadcast 
monitoring and concluded that barriers to entry these were not high and were 
expected to further fall over time due to technological developments. 
43. 
Market inquiries in relation to the proposed acquisition have not supported the 
view that there are low barriers in the supply of print and broadcast monitoring. 
The ACCC has information from market participants which indicate that there 
have been a number of attempts by parties to establish print or broadcast media 
monitoring businesses in Australia which have been unsuccessful due to the 
presence of significant barriers to entry. Market participants have indicated that 
barriers to establishing a national media monitoring service that monitors a broad 
range of media are significant for the following main reasons: 
 
Scale – To provide an effective media monitoring service to Major 
Customers, it is necessary to monitor all, or nearly all, media outlets in 
Australia. This is a labour-intensive process, particularly in relation to 
broadcast media which needs to be monitored by active listeners in order to 
be properly categorised. Staff may also be required to manually collect and 
categorise print media. Accordingly, establishing a competitive media 
monitoring service involves significant, up front, fixed costs. Once a 
monitoring operation has been established across all of the relevant media, 
the service provider faces low and decreasing marginal costs as the number 
of customers served increases. These economies of scale have the 
potential to create a barrier to new entrants which have a smaller customer 
base and so face a higher cost in providing a service to customers. 
 
 
Copyright – As it is necessary to monitor all, or nearly all, media outlets to 
provide an effective monitoring service to Major Customers, it is necessary 
to reach commercial agreements individually with a large number of different 
print and broadcast media outlets before offering a service. Some market 


iSentia Pty Limited - proposed acquisition of Australian Associated Press Pty 
Limited’s media monitoring business 
 
Page 9 of 11 
participants have been unable to do so, possibly due to the transaction costs 
that potential licensees face in dealing with multiple potential providers of 
print and broadcast media services. The ACCC also notes that following the 
dissolution of the Australian Association of Information Monitors in 2013, 
there is no organisation which collectively manages broadcast rights 
licences. The ACCC also considers that the above comments in relation to 
difficulties in obtaining commercial copyright posing as a barrier to entry may 
remain relevant to the monitoring of online content from the major Australian 
publishers as paywalls become more common in relation to such content.  
 
 
Broadcast monitoring equipment – The ACCC understands that 
monitoring of broadcast media requires listening devices to be installed in 
the relevant broadcast areas, including regional areas for non-metropolitan 
television and radio stations. This equipment also needs to be connected to 
a data network that has significant uploading capacity. The costs associated 
with this equipment may constitute a barrier to entry and/or further enhance 
the importance of scale. 
44. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that there are high barriers to entry in supplying 
a media monitoring service which monitors a broad range of media, including 
print and broadcast media. However, the ACCC is continuing to explore the 
magnitude of barriers to entry in this market and invites comments from market 
participants on this issue. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the nature and extent of 
barriers to entry in the supply media monitoring services to Major Customers, 
including: 
 
The magnitude of the barriers to entry identified above, or any other barriers to 
entry or expansion and the extent to which these barriers would prevent timely 
entry or expansion in relation to the supply of the relevant services following the 
proposed acquisition. 
 
The extent to which it is important for a supplier of print and broadcast media 
monitoring services to monitor all, or nearly all, major media outlets in Australia 
to provide an attractive service to Major Customers. 
 
The extent to which technological innovation and increasing preference for 
online media content is likely to impact on barriers to entry for the provision of 
print media monitoring services and broadcast media monitoring services in the 
foreseeable future (i.e. two to three years). 
Issues that may raise concerns 
Market for the supply of media intelligence services 
45. 
There are a number of companies which provide media intelligence services to 
customers in Australia, including iSentia. The reports generated by these 
companies are based on an analysis of relevant print, broadcast and online 
media. Information received by the ACCC suggests that media intelligence 
services cannot be effectively provided to customers on the basis of online 
media monitoring alone. 
46. 
As outlined above, following the proposed acquisition, iSentia will be the only 
national supplier of media monitoring services that includes print and broadcast 


iSentia Pty Limited - proposed acquisition of Australian Associated Press Pty 
Limited’s media monitoring business 
 
Page 10 of 11 
media, which could provide it with the ability and incentive to influence 
competition in the supply of such services in a number of ways, including: 
 
Engaging in anti-competitive bundling in relation to the supply of intelligence 
services. This would involve iSentia offering such services to customers at a 
bundled price that harms the ability of efficient suppliers of individual 
components of the bundle to compete. 
 
Restricting customers of their print and broadcast media monitoring services 
from supplying relevant news clips to third parties, which would prevent 
competing suppliers of media intelligence services from being able to 
provide an effective service to those customers. 
47. 
A number of market participants have suggested to the ACCC that many 
organisations are able to provide their own media intelligence services, through 
their in-house media units. The ACCC notes that if this is a viable option for a 
significant proportion of customers, this has the potential to defeat any attempt 
by iSentia to leverage its market position into the supply of media intelligence 
services following the proposed acquisition.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the likely competitive effects 
of the proposed acquisition in the supply of media intelligence services. In particular, 
market participants may wish to comment on: 
 
Whether it is likely that iSentia would have the ability and incentive to engage in 
the bundling activity outlined above following the proposed acquisition in relation 
to the supply of media intelligence services. 
 
The extent of any economies of scope in supplying a bundle of print and 
broadcast media monitoring services and media intelligence services. 
 
The extent of economies of scale in supplying media intelligence services. 
 
Whether it is likely that iSentia would have the ability and incentive to restrict 
third parties from accessing relevant print and broadcast media clips in the 
manner outlined above following the proposed acquisition. 
 
The extent to which customers are able to self-supply media intelligence 
services. 
ACCC's future steps 
48. 
The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers market responses 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
49. 
The ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on each of the 
issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that may be 
relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. 
50. 
Submissions are to be received by the ACCC no later than 31 January 2014. 
The ACCC will consider the submissions received from the market and the 
merger parties in light of the issues identified above and will, in conjunction with 
information and submissions already provided by the parties, come to a final 
view in light of the issues raised above. 
51. 
The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 20 February 2014. 
However the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Merger Review 


iSentia Pty Limited - proposed acquisition of Australian Associated Press Pty 
Limited’s media monitoring business 
 
Page 11 of 11 
Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose of 
explaining the ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's public 
announcement. 
 
