 
Page 1 of 9 
 
Public Competition Assessment 
16 April 2014 
iSentia Pty Limited - proposed acquisition of assets of 
Australian Associated Press Pty Limited's media 
monitoring business  
Introduction 
1. On 20 February 2014, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission 
(ACCC) announced its decision not to oppose the proposed acquisition of the 
assets of Australian Associated Press Pty Limited's media monitoring business 
(AAP) by iSentia Pty Limited (iSentia) (proposed acquisition). 
2. The ACCC decided that the proposed acquisition would be unlikely to have the 
effect of substantially lessening competition in any market in contravention of 
section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the Act). 
3. The ACCC made its decision on the basis of the information provided by the parties 
to the acquisition (the parties) and information arising from its market inquiries. 
This Public Competition Assessment outlines (subject to confidentiality 
considerations) the basis on which the ACCC has reached its decision on the 
proposed acquisition. 
Public Competition Assessment 
4. To provide an enhanced level of transparency in its decision making process, the 
ACCC issues a Public Competition Assessment for all transactions reviewed by the 
ACCC where: 
 
an acquisition is opposed; 
 
an acquisition is subject to enforceable undertakings; 
 
the parties to the acquisition seek such disclosure; or 
 
an acquisition is not opposed but raises important issues that the ACCC 
considers should be made public. 
5. This Public Competition Assessment has been issued because the proposed 
acquisition is considered to raise issues of interest to the public. 
6. By issuing Public Competition Assessments, the ACCC aims to provide the public 
with a better understanding of the ACCC's analysis of various markets and the 
associated merger and competition issues. Public Competition Assessments can 


 
Page 2 of 9 
also alert the public to circumstances where the ACCC’s assessment of the 
competition conditions in particular markets is changing, or likely to change. 
7. Each Public Competition Assessment is specific to the particular transaction under 
review by the ACCC. While some transaction proposals may involve the same or 
related markets, it should not be assumed that the analysis and decision outlined in 
one Public Competition Assessment will be conclusive of the ACCC’s view in 
respect of other transaction proposals, as each matter will be considered on a case-
by-case basis. 
8. Public Competition Assessments outline the ACCC’s principal reasons for forming 
views on a proposed acquisition at the time the decision was made. As such Public 
Competition Assessments may not definitively identify and explain all issues that 
the ACCC considers arise from a proposed acquisition. Further, the ACCC’s 
decisions generally involve consideration of both non-confidential and confidential 
information provided by the parties and market participants. In order to maintain 
confidentiality, Public Competition Assessments do not contain any confidential 
information nor identify its sources. 
The parties 
The acquirer: iSentia Pty Limited 
9. iSentia (formerly Media Monitors) is a privately owned media intelligence company 
with operations in Australia, New Zealand and Asia. It provides media intelligence 
services to over 6,000 clients in the Asia Pacific region by collecting and analysing 
information from publicly available print, online news, social media and broadcast 
sources. iSentia has more than 1,400 employees across 15 countries. 
The target: the media monitoring business of Australian Associated Press 
Pty Limited 
10. Founded in 1935, AAP is Australia’s national news agency distributing independent 
news and information to the Australian media and the private and public sectors. 
AAP is owned by Fairfax Group, News Group, Seven West Media Limited and 
Associated Newspapers Ltd. AAP has over 800 employees worldwide. AAP 
currently provides media monitoring services to clients through its Newscentre 
division. 
Other industry participants 
11. At the time of the ACCC’s decision, there were no other providers of 
comprehensive print, online and broadcast monitoring in Australia. However, the 
following providers supplied online media monitoring services, or could be used to 
search online media outlets. 
Meltwater 
12. Meltwater offers a range of services that help companies monitor, analyse and 
manage their brand online. Meltwater provides online media monitoring through its 
Meltwater News service that searches all freely available web content in Australia 
and globally for client’s keywords. Meltwater also provides social media monitoring 
and analysis through its Meltwater Buzz service. 
Google News 
13. Google News is a free online news aggregator that searches thousands of online 
publications to present the most relevant and up-to-date information on its 
homepage. Google News includes news articles that have been published within 


 
Page 3 of 9 
the previous 30 days and users can search by using keywords. An additional 
service called Google News Alerts allows users to set-up keyword ‘alerts’, where 
articles containing these keywords will be emailed to the user.  
The proposed transaction 
14. iSentia proposed to acquire the assets of AAP’s media monitoring division, 
Newscentre. The assets principally comprised AAP's media monitoring contracts 
with its monitoring clients. iSentia planned to integrate AAP’s media monitoring 
business with its own. 
15. The proposed acquisition was publicly announced on 29 October 2013 and was 
subject to ACCC approval. 
16. AAP publicly stated that the rationale for the proposed transaction was that it would 
“enable AAP to focus on and expand its core editorial business to meet the 
challenges of the changing media landscape in Australia.”1 iSentia stated that the 
addition of AAP’s media monitoring business would allow iSentia “to continue to 
invest in (its) services and remain the region’s leading service company in the 
media intelligence space.”2  
Review timeline 
17. The following table outlines the timeline of key events in this matter. 
Date 
Event 
29 October 2013 
ACCC commenced review under the Merger Review Process 
Guidelines. 
20 November 2013 
Closing date for submissions from interested parties.  
19 December 2013 
ACCC published a Statement of Issues outlining preliminary 
competition concerns. 
31 January 2014 
Closing date for submissions relating to Statement of Issues. 
20 February 2014 
ACCC announced it would not oppose the proposed acquisition. 
Market inquiries 
18. The ACCC conducted market inquiries with a range of industry participants and 
interested parties, including customers, suppliers of online media monitoring or 
media intelligence services and other interested parties.  
Statement of Issues 
19. The ACCC published a Statement of Issues on 19 December 2013. In the 
Statement of Issues the ACCC expressed a preliminary view that the proposed 
acquisition was likely to raise competition concerns in the market for the supply of 
media monitoring services. In particular, the ACCC expressed concern that the 
proposed acquisition would result in: 
 the removal of iSentia’s closest competitor in the supply of these services; 
                                                 
1 AAP media release dated 29 October 2013 “iSentia to purchase AAP’s media monitoring business.” 
2 AAP media release dated 29 October 2013 “iSentia to purchase AAP’s media monitoring business.” 


 
Page 4 of 9 
 there being no other supplier of media monitoring services in Australia which 
monitors all forms of media on a national basis, including print and broadcast 
media; and 
 the loss of competitive constraint for iSentia in supplying media monitoring 
services to ‘Major Customers’ which have more extensive media monitoring 
requirements, having no competitive alternative to iSentia. 
Areas of overlap 
20. AAP and iSentia overlapped in the provision of media monitoring services. The 
ACCC noted that the parties both offered media monitoring services in relation to 
print, broadcast and online media. 
21. AAP and iSentia also overlap in the provision of media intelligence services. 
However, AAP’s media intelligence business is not subject to the proposed 
acquisition and AAP intends to continue to supply such services in competition with 
iSentia following the proposed acquisition. 
Market definition 
22. The ACCC assessed the impact of the proposed acquisition in the context of the 
following markets: 
 
the national market for the supply of media monitoring services, and 
 
the national market for the supply of media intelligence services. 
Media monitoring services 
23. The ACCC noted that there are three main forms of media which are the subject of 
media monitoring activities: 
 
print - physical newspapers and magazines, 
 
broadcast - television and radio stations  
 
online - content available on the internet, including from news outlets, blogs, 
social media and other outlets. 
24. In 2006, the ACCC reviewed the acquisition of Rehame Australia Monitoring 
Services by iSentia (then known as Media Monitors). At the time, the ACCC 
concluded that there were separate markets for the supply of print and broadcast 
monitoring. However, having regard to the growth of online media content, the 
apparent convergence of news media being delivered through multiple channels 
(print, broadcast and online) and preferences of customers to choose a customised 
media monitoring service from a comprehensive suite of media channels, the 
ACCC’s market inquiries indicated that it may no longer be appropriate to define the 
product market according to the separate forms of media (print, broadcast and 
online).  
25. While the ACCC does not consider that monitoring of print, broadcast and online 
media are necessarily substitutable from a demand or supply side perspective, the 
ACCC considered that a substantial segment of customers will prefer to monitor two 
or more channels of media and therefore prefer a tailored, bundled offering of print, 
broadcast and online media monitoring services.  
26. For the purpose of the present review, the ACCC considered it is appropriate to 
consider the proposed acquisition in the context of a single product market for the 
supply of media monitoring services. However, the ACCC observed that customers 
of media monitoring services have a range of preferences in relation to the breadth 


 
Page 5 of 9 
of media that they require a monitoring service provider to monitor and considered 
that suppliers of media monitoring services vary considerably in the level of 
customisation and breadth of monitoring that they are capable of providing. The 
ACCC observed that some suppliers of media monitoring services only compete for 
customers which have limited media monitoring requirements, such as only online 
media content. 
27. Both iSentia and AAP offered media monitoring services on a national basis. A 
number of media monitoring or media analysis companies provide services on a 
more limited state-wide or regional basis, however the ACCC’s market inquiries 
indicated that such services are not substitutable for a significant proportion of 
media monitoring clients, including companies that operate nationally and federal 
government departments or agencies. The ACCC did not find evidence that such 
customers would be willing to acquire media monitoring services from multiple 
providers servicing different geographic regions. The ACCC therefore considered it 
was appropriate to consider the impact of the proposed acquisition in the context of 
national markets for the supply of the relevant services. 
28. Information obtained by the ACCC indicated that there are a significant number of 
corporate and government organisations which require a broad spectrum of print, 
broadcast and online media to be monitored in order for them to be adequately 
informed about how their organisation is publicly perceived or issues which are of 
interest to them (Major Customers). Other organisations, particularly smaller 
businesses, have more specific or more limited requirements in relation to the 
breadth of media which they seek to monitor (Smaller Customers). The ACCC 
considered that these different customer preferences, and customer preferences 
more generally, had important implications for the ACCC’s analysis of the 
competitive effects of the proposed acquisition, as outlined below. 
Media intelligence services  
29. Media intelligence services are services which analyse selections of disseminated 
media (often provided by a media monitoring service provider) in order to provide 
customers with information about how their organisation is being reported in the 
media, or which summarises information about that organisation’s coverage in the 
media. Media intelligence services are often considered to be a complementary, or 
value-added, service to media monitoring services. 
30. Although AAP’s media intelligence services are not subject to the proposed 
acquisition, the ACCC considered that due to the complementary nature of media 
intelligence and media monitoring services, the proposed acquisition may impact 
competition in the market for media intelligence services. The ACCC considered the 
potential for iSentia to leverage its market power in the media monitoring market 
post-acquisition by bundling these services with intelligence services, to the 
competitive detriment of competing providers of media intelligence services.  
Future with and without the acquisition  
31. Section 50 of the Act prohibits mergers or acquisitions that would have the effect or 
be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in any market. In 
assessing a proposed acquisition pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC 
considers the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future competitive 
environment post-acquisition if the acquisition proceeds (the “with” position) to the 
likely future competitive environment if the acquisition does not proceed (the 
“without” position) to determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in any relevant market. 


 
Page 6 of 9 
The viability of AAP’s media monitoring business   
32. AAP submitted evidence to the effect that, in the event that the proposed 
acquisition did not proceed, AAP would cease to offer a media monitoring service in 
Australia.  
33. The ACCC conducted market inquiries and carefully considered publicly available 
information, as well as extensive confidential information provided by the parties 
and by other interested parties to test this submission. 
34. The ACCC formed the view that AAP would be highly likely to cease to offer media 
monitoring services in the foreseeable future irrespective of the proposed 
acquisition. 
35. This conclusion is critical to the ACCC’s assessment of this matter. Having reached 
this conclusion, the relevant test is whether the future with the proposed acquisition 
would constitute a substantial lessening of competition when compared with the 
likely future without the proposed acquisition (in which AAP would be highly likely to 
exit the media monitoring market). 
36. As stated in the ACCC’s Merger Guidelines, mere speculation that a target firm is 
failing and will exit the market in the near future, or evidence of a recent decline in a 
target firm’s profitability, is not sufficient to establish that parties to an acquisition 
would not continue to be competitors in the future without the acquisition. 
37. The ACCC critically examines claims that, absent the acquisition, a firm would be 
likely to fail and therefore exit the relevant market. By way of example the ACCC is 
unlikely to accept claims that a firm will exit the relevant market simply based on 
documents created since the relevant acquisition has been in contemplation. This is 
particularly so where the financial performance of the firm has been sound having 
regard to the particular circumstances prevailing at the time of the review.  
38. In general, to demonstrate that an acquisition would not substantially lessen 
competition due to the prospective failure of one of the parties, it is necessary to 
show that: 
 the relevant firm is in imminent danger of failure and is unlikely to be successfully 
restructured without the acquisition; and 
 in the absence of the acquisition, the assets associated with the relevant firm, 
including its brands, would leave the relevant market.  
39. Even if it is considered likely that the firm would exit the market if it is not acquired, 
the acquisition of that firm may still result in a substantial lessening of competition if, 
in the absence of the acquisition, the remaining market participants would be more 
likely to compete to win the failed firm’s customers.  
40. In the present case, the ACCC formed the view that AAP would be highly likely to 
cease operating its media monitoring business and there were no credible 
alternative purchasers of its media monitoring assets and customer contracts. In 
forming this view, the ACCC has had particular regard to: 
 
The sustained losses incurred by AAP’s media monitoring business throughout 
the life of its operation and the detrimental impact this has had on AAP’s 
financial performance; 
 
Evidence of attempts made by AAP to restructure its media monitoring 
business prior to the proposed acquisition by iSentia; and 


 
Page 7 of 9 
 
The absence of an alternative credible purchaser of AAP’s media monitoring 
business. 
AAP’s media monitoring business has sustained losses throughout its 
operation  
41. AAP commenced providing full-scale print and broadcast monitoring in 2010, 
following the launch of its broadcast-only monitoring service in 2008. Since that 
time, AAP’s media monitoring business has been making unsustainable losses. The 
ACCC had regard to information and internal documents provided by AAP 
evidencing the unsustainable financial performance of its media monitoring 
business. 
AAP made attempts to restructure its media monitoring business 
42. The ACCC had regard to information and internal documents provided by AAP 
evidencing unsuccessful attempts by AAP to restructure its media monitoring 
business in conjunction with other business partners. 
An alternative buyer for AAP’s media monitoring business appeared 
unlikely 
43. Having concluded that AAP was unlikely to continue to operate its media monitoring 
business, the ACCC considered whether AAP, absent the proposed acquisition 
would be likely to sell its media monitoring business to another buyer.  
44. The ACCC examined whether, absent the proposed acquisition, another party 
would be likely to acquire AAP’s media monitoring business assets (or take on its 
client contracts) such that it would assist in the entry or expansion by a new or 
emerging competitor for the provision of media monitoring services, particularly to 
Major Customers. Based upon its assessment of all the relevant information the 
ACCC concluded that this was not likely.  
45. The ACCC considered that no other potential acquirer of AAP’s media monitoring 
business assets had the necessary infrastructure or copyright licences with major 
metropolitan broadcasters and print media publishers to provide the breadth of 
media monitoring services demanded by Major Customers of AAP (and iSentia).  
46. Based upon its assessment of all the relevant information the ACCC concluded that 
AAP was highly likely to close its media monitoring business irrespective of the 
proposed acquisition and was unlikely to find an alternative buyer to iSentia for the 
sale of its media monitoring business assets and customer contracts. Therefore, the 
ACCC considered that the proposed acquisition was unlikely to substantially lessen 
competition in the national market for the supply media monitoring services as the 
likely future without the proposed acquisition was not materially distinguishable from 
the likely future with the proposed acquisition. 
Competition Assessment  
47. Absent the conclusion that AAP would be likely to exit the relevant market without 
the proposed acquisition, the ACCC considered that the proposed acquisition 
raised significant competition concerns. 
48. In particular, the ACCC held significant concerns that the proposed acquisition 
would result in iSentia acquiring its only competitor for the provision of media 
monitoring services to Major Customers.    


 
Page 8 of 9 
49. The ACCC considered that for a significant number of Major Customers, including 
companies that operate nationally and federal government departments or 
agencies, which require a broad and comprehensive media monitoring service: 
 iSentia and AAP were the only large-scale national providers of print and 
broadcast media monitoring services. Customers value the breadth of print and 
broadcast media outlets covered by these organisations and no other 
companies provided a comparable service. The proposed acquisition would 
result in the removal of the only viable competitive alternative to iSentia; 
 AAP has been a strong price competitor to iSentia and many market 
participants considered that its entry into the market constrained iSentia’s 
prices; 
 Online-only media monitoring services are not substitutable for print monitoring 
services and a substantial segment of customers do not consider that they are 
likely to be in the foreseeable future; 
 It is not practical or commercially viable to self-supply a comprehensive range 
of media monitoring services. 
Barriers to entry 
50. The ACCC considered that there were significant barriers to entry in supplying a 
media monitoring service which monitors a broad range of media, including print 
and broadcast media.  
51. The fundamental issue identified by potential suppliers of media monitoring services 
is the economies of scale associated with the market. To provide an effective media 
monitoring service to Major Customers, it is necessary to monitor all, or nearly all, 
media outlets in Australia. Establishing a competitive, comprehensive media 
monitoring service involves significant, up front, fixed, and to some extent sunk, 
costs. Once a monitoring operation has been established across all of the relevant 
media, the service provider faces low and decreasing marginal costs as the number 
of customers served increases. 
52. Industry participants noted the requirement by most large corporate and 
government clients for very wide, if not complete, coverage of major media outlets 
throughout Australia. This includes metropolitan, suburban and regional 
newspapers as well as metropolitan and regional radio and television broadcast 
media. Some customers also require coverage of magazines.  
53. The costs associated with such a wide range of coverage are considered to include: 
 
The infrastructure required to capture television and radio broadcast feeds 
digitally. Generally, in order to monitor regional stations throughout 
Australia, numerous hubs of recording infrastructure are required. Additional 
infrastructure required includes the computer systems and licensed software 
required to ‘cut up’ and disseminate both print and broadcast media for 
customer use;  
 
 
The employee costs, particularly associated with broadcast media 
monitoring which require active listening, which become significant as 
multiple news outlets in a range of locations are covered; and 
 
 
Copyright fees generally involving a royalty payment of 10-40% of the 
amount that is charged to customers for each press or broadcast clip with 
some licence holders requiring a minimum up-front fee to be paid, ranging 
from $10,000 to up to $500,000. Aggregating minimum up-front fees across 


 
Page 9 of 9 
the numerous media outlets monitored by a comprehensive media 
monitoring service results in a substantial up-front, sunk cost for potential 
new entrants. A number of potential new entrants have also reported 
difficulties in establishing cooperative engagement with a number of media 
providers.     
54. The ACCC considered that potential new entrants face a significant asymmetry 
compared to incumbents which is likely to deter new entry. In order to commence 
supply, new entrants must make a significant investment, the majority of which is 
sunk. By entering the market, the new entrant will substantially increase the amount 
of capacity in the market which is likely to have the effect of significantly reducing 
the expected returns from such investment.   
55. The ACCC considered that, having regard to the barriers to entry, the likelihood or 
threat of new entry could not be relied upon to competitively constrain iSentia in the 
foreseeable future for the provision of media monitoring services to Major 
Customers.  
Potential new entrants 
56. Through the course of market inquiries, the ACCC identified a small number of 
companies with plans to attempt entry into the market for the provision of media 
monitoring services. These potential new entrants considered the barriers to 
providing media monitoring coverage to the extent that iSentia does as 
commercially unviable for a new entrant lacking the scale and established customer 
base that iSentia has.  
57. The ACCC considered that there are significant doubts as to whether any of these 
companies would be successful in their efforts to offer a media monitoring service 
that would be competitive with iSentia for Major Customers in the foreseeable 
future. The ACCC considered that successful entry by these companies, and their 
ability to compete for Major Customers, is likely to be dependent on both securing 
copyright licensing with the major metropolitan broadcasters and print media 
publishers as well as a shift in the preferences of a substantial segment of Major 
Customers away from demanding monitoring of suburban and/or rural print and 
broadcast media.  
Conclusion 
58. On the basis of the information supporting the view that AAP would be highly likely 
to exit the relevant market if the proposed acquisition did not proceed, and there 
being no credible alternative acquirers of AAP’s media monitoring business, the 
ACCC formed the view that the proposed acquisition of AAP’s media monitoring 
business by iSentia would not be likely to result in a substantial lessening of 
competition in the market for the provision of media monitoring services in Australia 
in contravention of section 50 of the Act. The ACCC therefore did not oppose the 
proposed acquisition. 
