1 
 
Our ref:  
IM-72559 
25 July 2024 
Dear Interested Party 
Request for submissions: Clean Energy Fuels Australia’s proposed acquisition of 
EVOL LNG 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
the proposed acquisition of Wesfarmers LNG Pty Ltd (trading as EVOL LNG) by Clean 
Energy Fuels Australia (CEFA) (the proposed acquisition). CEFA and EVOL both distribute 
liquefied natural gas (LNG) to customers requiring remote energy generation in Western 
Australia.  
CEFA distributes LNG from its Mid-West LNG processing plant, located near Mount 
Magnet. EVOL LNG distributes LNG produced at Wesfarmers’ Kwinana processing facility. 
While the Kwinana processing plant will not form part of the proposed acquisition, pursuant 
to a separate long-term tolling agreement, which will be entered into simultaneously with 
the proposed acquisition, CEFA will have exclusive rights for the duration of the agreement 
to deliver and process natural gas into LNG at the Kwinana processing facility. Further 
details are provided at Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigations are focused on the impact on competition. In particular, we are 
seeking your views on: 
• 
how closely CEFA and EVOL LNG compete in the supply of LNG to customers requiring 
remote energy generation in Western Australia, and the availability of alternative 
providers of LNG 
• 
the extent to which alternative hydrocarbons (such as diesel) are alternatives to LNG 
for customers requiring remote energy generation in Western Australia and any 
scenarios where customers switch between LNG and diesel during the life of a project 
• 
the degree of bargaining power customers requiring remote energy generation hold in 
relation to suppliers of LNG for remote energy generation, and 
• 
the extent to which the tolling agreement giving CEFA exclusive rights to output from 
Wesfarmers’ Kwinana processing facility is likely to impact on the ability of alternative 
providers of LNG to compete with CEFA. 
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
tel: (02) 6243 1368 
mergers@accc.gov.au
www.accc.gov.au


2 
 
This matter is public, and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
Please provide your response by 8 August 2024 via email to mergers@accc.gov.au with 
the title: Submission re: CEFA – EVOL LNG. If you require more time to respond, please let 
us know. 
If you would like to arrange a time to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any 
questions about this letter, please contact mergers@accc.gov.au. 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public Mergers 
Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC treats sensitive information it receives during a merger review as confidential 
and will not publish your submission. We will not disclose submissions to third parties 
(except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of 
information legislation or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the 
Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, we will notify you in advance where possible so that you have an opportunity 
to be heard. Therefore please clearly indicate if any information you provide is confidential. 
Our Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on 
confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
Morag Bond 
General Manager  
Merger Investigations  
 
 
 
 
 


3 
 
Attachment A 
Proposed acquisition 
CEFA proposes to acquire 100% of the issued share capital in EVOL LNG. The 
proposed acquisition includes the entire EVOL LNG business, including customer 
contracts and associated assets. 
The proposed acquisition does not include other businesses operated by 
Wesfarmers’ Chemicals, Energy & Fertilisers division. However, pursuant to a 
separate long-term tolling arrangement, which will be entered into simultaneously 
with the proposed acquisition, CEFA will have exclusive rights for the duration of the 
agreement to deliver and process natural gas into LNG at Wesfarmers Kwinana 
processing facility.  
The acquirer – CEFA 
CEFA is a producer and distributor of LNG used for energy generation at remote mining 
operations and communities in Australia, including mining operations in Western Australia. 
CEFA operates the Mid-West LNG processing plant, near Mount Magnet, Western Australia, 
which has a current production capacity of 247 tonnes of LNG per day. CEFA distributes 
LNG by road tankers from the Mid-West LNG processing plant to satellite facilities at mines 
and remote communities across WA.  
CEFA also has a 50% interest in the Mid-West Pipeline, through an unincorporated joint 
venture with Horizon Power. The Mid-West pipeline is a 353km transmission pipeline that 
transports gas from the Dampier to Bunbury Natural Gas Pipeline and is utilised to 
transport gas to CEFA’s Mid-West LNG processing plant. 
In addition to its interests in LNG, CEFA operates PWR Hybrid which is a thermal and 
renewable energy company focussed on providing alternative energy generation solutions 
to mining and resource projects in Australia.  
CEFA is ultimately owned by Australian Midstream Investments Pte Ltd, which is indirectly 
owned by ISQ Global Infrastructure Fund II, a private equity fund which is managed and 
advised by I Squared Capital Advisors (US) LLC. 
The target – EVOL LNG 
EVOL LNG is Wesfarmers’ LNG distribution business, that lifts and transports LNG via road 
tankers to remote customers.  
EVOL LNG is a wholly owned subsidiary of Wesfarmers Kleenheat Gas Pty Ltd, which is part 
of the Wesfarmers Chemicals, Energy & Fertilisers division of Wesfarmers Limited. 
Wesfarmers owns and operates the Kwinana LNG processing facility, which has a 
production capacity of 250 tonnes of LNG per day. The Kwinana processing facility will not 
form part of the proposed acquisition however, a separate tolling agreement will be entered 
into to allow CEFA to deliver and process natural gas into LNG at this facility. 
LNG for remote energy generation 
Mining operations and remote communities that are not covered by existing electricity 
supply networks must generate their own electricity to meet their power needs.  
LNG is used for remote energy generation in Western Australia. The LNG is distributed by 


4 
 
road tanker, and regasified upon delivery. Natural gas is then used to power gas turbines or 
reciprocating gas engines that generate electricity.  
 
 
 


5 
 
Attachment B 
1. Provide a brief description of your business or organisation. 
2. Outline the reasons for your interest in the proposed acquisition, including any 
commercial relationship/s with CEFA and/or EVOL LNG. 
The questions below are divided into questions for customers and alternative 
providers of hydrocarbons for remote energy generation, but you are welcome to 
comment on any question/s in any category. 
Questions for customers 
3. Outline your organisation’s requirements for remote energy generation, including 
details of the location/s that you require remote energy generation and the 
energy requirements of each location. 
4. Describe which sources of remote energy generation were considered 
appropriate for each location and the decision making process undertaken to 
determine the energy source used.  
5. Explain the extent to which renewable energy sources can be used as an 
alternative to hydrocarbons for remote energy generation. 
6. Describe how you procure hydrocarbons for remote energy generation, for 
example through formal tender or other methods, including typical contract 
duration.  
7. Describe your ability to switch between suppliers of hydrocarbons for remote 
energy generation, including any ability to switch during the life of a project, and 
in particular, the feasibility of switching from LNG to an alternative fuel such as 
diesel. Consider factors such as time, sunk costs and cost recovery, or any 
exclusive or long-term contractual arrangements.  
8. Provide detail of any backup energy generation systems you use, their capacity, 
and whether these systems would make it easier to switch to an alternative fuel 
source. 
9. Explain whether you would have the ability to self-supply hydrocarbons for 
remote energy generation. 
Questions for alternative providers of fuel for remote energy generation 
10. Please identify what energy sources you provide for remote energy generation in 
Western Australia, your capacity and capability to transport energy to geographic 
areas in Western Australia. If relevant, provide a breakdown of capacity at each 
processing facility you use. 
11. Identify and describe your competitors in the supply of energy sources for remote 
energy generation in Western Australia and the geographic areas in which these 
providers operate. Please provide market shares where possible, and the basis 
for such shares.  
12. Explain the basis on which you compete for the supply of fuels for remote energy 
generation (for example price, locations serviced and capacity) in Western 
Australia. 
13. From your perspective, what are the key factors considered by customers 
requiring remote energy generation in selecting an appropriate energy generation 


6 
 
source and provider.  
14. From your perspective, describe the likelihood of new entry or expansion in the 
supply of LNG for remote energy generation in Western Australia.  
15. Explain the degree of bargaining power held by customers requiring remote 
energy generation, including whether customers may tender for multiple 
locations at the same time to access volume discounts. Are customers able to 
sponsor new entry in the supply of fuel sources?  
16. Explain whether the tolling agreement giving CEFA exclusive rights to output from 
Wesfarmers’ Kwinana processing facility is likely to impact on the ability of 
alternative providers of LNG to compete with CEFA. 
Additional information and competition issues 
17. Describe whether and to what extent competing providers of energy for remote 
energy generation would, post acquisition, constrain CEFA from increasing prices 
and/or decreasing service levels for the supply of LNG to customers requiring 
remote energy generation, including the impact of factors such as: 
a. 
locations serviced by alternative providers 
b. 
capacity of alternative providers, and 
c. 
substitutability and switching costs associated with changing from LNG to 
an alternative form of hydrocarbon for remote energy generation purposes. 
18. Provide any additional information or comments that you consider relevant to the 
ACCC’s consideration of the proposed acquisition. 
