 
Public Competition Assessment 
13 November 2007 
Pact Group Pty Ltd - proposed acquisition of Brickwood Holdings Pty Ltd 
 
Introduction 
1. On 31 October 2007, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission 
(ACCC) announced its decision to oppose the proposed acquisition (proposed 
acquisition) of Brickwood Holdings Pty Ltd, Logan Moulders Pty Ltd, Full View 
Plastics Pty Ltd and the units in the Full View Plastics Unit Trust (together, 
Brickwood) by Pact Group Pty Ltd (Pact Group).  The ACCC was of the view 
that the proposed acquisition would be likely to have the effect of substantially 
lessening competition in the markets for the manufacture and supply of PET bottles 
in Queensland, New South Wales and Victoria, in contravention of section 50 of the 
Trade Practices Act 1974 (the Act).  
2. The ACCC formed its view on the basis of the information provided by the merger 
parties and information arising from extensive market inquiries. This Public 
Competition Assessment outlines the basis on which the ACCC has reached its 
decision on the proposed acquisition, subject to confidentiality considerations. 
Public Competition Assessment 
3. To provide an enhanced level of transparency and procedural fairness in its decision 
making process, the ACCC issues a Public Competition Assessment for all 
transaction proposals where: 
▪ 
a merger is opposed; 
▪ 
a merger is subject to enforceable undertakings; 
▪ 
the merger parties seek such disclosure; or 
▪ 
a merger is approved but raises important issues that the ACCC considers 
should be made public. 
4. This Public Competition Assessment has been issued because the ACCC decided to 
oppose the proposed acquisition. 
5. By issuing Public Competition Assessments, the ACCC aims to provide the market 
with a better understanding of the ACCC’s analysis of various markets and the 
associated merger and competition issues. It also alerts the market to the 


Pact Group Pty Ltd - proposed acquisition of Brickwood Holdings Pty Ltd 
-2- 
circumstances where the ACCC’s assessment of the competition conditions in 
particular markets is changing, or likely to change, because of developments.  
6. Each Public Competition Assessment is specific to the particular transaction under 
review by the ACCC. While some transaction proposals may involve the same or 
related markets, it should not be assumed that the analysis and decision outlined in 
one Public Competition Assessment will be conclusive of the ACCC’s view in 
respect of other transaction proposals, as each matter will be considered on its own 
merits.  
7. Many of the ACCC’s decisions will involve consideration of both non-confidential 
and confidential information provided by the merger parties and market 
participants. In order to maintain the confidentiality of particular information, 
Public Competition Assessments do not contain any confidential information or its 
sources.  While the ACCC aims to provide an appropriately detailed explanation of 
the basis for the ACCC decision, maintaining confidentiality will be the ACCC's 
paramount concern.  Accordingly, a Public Competition Assessment may not 
definitively explain the analysis of all issues.  
The proposed acquisition 
8. On 31 July 2007, Pact Group announced its intention to acquire Brickwood and 
provided the ACCC with a submission.  
Relevant parties 
Brickwood  
 
9. Brickwood manufactures a range of packaging products including polyethylene 
terephthalate (PET) bottles, high density polyethylene (HDPE) bottles, PET 
preforms and plastic closures. Brickwood is also a purchaser of PET and HDPE 
resin. Brickwood’s manufacturing operations are as follows:  
Entity 
State 
Products 
Logan Moulders 
Queensland 
PET & HDPE bottles, closures 
Full View Plastics & Water 
New South Wales 
PET & HDPE bottles 
Brickwood 
Victoria 
PET & HDPE bottles, closures  
 
10. Brickwood related entities also participate in joint venture arrangements with 
National Foods, Parmalat Australia and Dairy Farmers Co-Operative which include 
on-site blow-moulding facilities for HDPE bottle manufacturing for milk and fruit 
juice products (dairy joint ventures).  The dairy joint ventures did not form part of 
the proposed acquisition.  


Pact Group Pty Ltd - proposed acquisition of Brickwood Holdings Pty Ltd 
-3- 
Pact Group 
 
11. Pact Group is a holding company of VIP Plastic Packaging Pty Ltd, trading as VIP 
Packaging, Plaspak Packaging Pty Ltd, Alto Packaging Australia Pty Ltd and 
Baroda Packaging Pty Ltd. 
12. Pact Group manufactures and supplies a range of packaging products including 
PET, HDPE, polypropylene (PP) bottles and containers and plastic closures 
through manufacturing operations in Queensland, New South Wales and Victoria. 
Pact Group has recently commenced manufacturing and supplying 2-3L HDPE 
beverage bottles in Victoria. Pact Group is also a purchaser of PET and HDPE 
resin.  
13. Pact Group also manufactures and supplies plastic products for the food and retail 
industries including jars, tubes, food trays and bowls as well as larger containers for 
industrial applications including tinplate pails, plastic pails and cubes and steel and 
plastic drums.  
14. Pact Group is privately owned by the Geminder family through a family trust 
(Geminder Trust). In 2002, a Pact Group related entity, Salvage Pty Ltd1, acquired 
the industrial packaging operations of Visy Industries Australia Pty Ltd (Visy). As 
part of the purchase of the Visy industrial packaging business, Visy entered into an 
agreement for the provision of corporate and shared services to Pact Group. In 
2003, Visy entered into a loan agreement with Salvage to retire the pre-existing 
vendor finance transferred with the assets at the time of the acquisition.  
15. Since the purchase in 2002, Pact Group has taken steps to increase the separation 
between Pact Group and Visy including through reducing the extent to which Visy 
provides corporate and shared services and inputs to Pact Group. Recent steps 
include Pact Group directors resigning from directorships in Visy and related 
entities.  
Visy  
 
16. Visy is Australia’s largest packaging and recycling company. Visy’s operations 
include:  
▪ 
the manufacture and supply of beverage and food containers including PET 
bottles, PET preforms, PET jars, paperboard cartons and corrugated cardboard 
boxes; and  
▪ 
the collection and processing of recyclable materials and the manufacture and 
supply of recycled paper.  
17. Visy is privately owned by the Pratt family through a family trust (Pratt Trust).  
                                                 
1 The Visy industrial packaging business was sold to a consortium including Salvage Pty Ltd, the 
corporate trustee for Geminder Trust, which is the ultimate owner of Pact Group.  


Pact Group Pty Ltd - proposed acquisition of Brickwood Holdings Pty Ltd 
-4- 
Industry background 
18. The packaging industry in Australia manufactures and supplies a wide range of 
packaging products including for industrial and chemical products, household 
consumer products, pharmaceutical products, personal care products and fast 
moving consumer goods (FMCG). FMCG packaging products include beverage 
containers (e.g. plastic bottles, cartons, glass bottles and aluminium cans) and non-
beverage containers, (e.g. plastic bottles and containers, cartons, glass bottles and 
jars, steel and aluminium cans and flexible packaging).  
19. The vast majority of plastic bottles supplied in Australia are used to package 
beverages.2 Beverage container customers include carbonated soft drink (CSD), 
fruit juice, water, functional drinks (including sports and energy drinks) and dairy3 
suppliers (beverage suppliers).  
20. CSD, water and functional drinks suppliers predominantly use PET bottles for 
packaging. While there are examples of large scale in-house manufacturing of PET 
bottles in the past by beverage suppliers, the industry is currently characterised by 
outsourced manufacturing and supply.  
21. Large beverage suppliers are predominantly supplied PET bottles by Visy and 
Brickwood pursuant to supply agreements, with the remaining beverage suppliers 
being supplied by a range of smaller PET bottle suppliers including Pact Group (in 
Queensland, New South Wales and Victoria), Hollywood Plastics (in New South 
Wales and Victoria) and Viscount Plastics (in Western Australia).  
22. Dairy suppliers predominantly use HPDE bottles for packaging milk, particularly in 
2-3L bottle sizes. Fruit juice suppliers also use 2-3L HDPE bottles for fresh juice. 
Dairy and fruit juice suppliers also use PET bottles and cartons for up to 1L bottle 
sizes.  
23. In addition to the merging parties, other HDPE bottle manufacturers include 
Queensland Blow Moulders (in Queensland), Hollywood Plastics (in New South 
Wales) and Food Plastics (in Victoria). Given the perishable nature of milk and the 
need to shorten supply timeframes, there is a significant level of on-site/in-house 
supply of 2-3L HDPE bottles by dairy suppliers through the dairy joint ventures 
referred to in paragraph 10 above.  
Market inquiries 
24. 
On 2 August 2007 the ACCC commenced market inquiries regarding the 
proposed acquisition with a range of industry participants, including competitors, 
potential competitors, customers, input suppliers, industry bodies and other 
interested parties.  
                                                 
2  For instance, industry reports indicate that approximately 93% of PET blow-moulded containers 
(i.e. bottles and jars) are used to package beverages. 
3 Market inquiries indicated that dairy products including milk are generally classed by the packaging 
industry as non-beverages.  In contrast, dairy suppliers tend to treat milk as a beverage. For the purpose 
of this Public Competition Assessment, the ACCC has treated milk as a beverage.  


Pact Group Pty Ltd - proposed acquisition of Brickwood Holdings Pty Ltd 
-5- 
25. 
A number of competition issues were identified in the Statement of Issues 
published by the ACCC in relation to this matter on 13 September 2007 
(Statement of Issues) including:  
▪ 
the relationship between Pact Group and Visy;  
▪ 
the manufacture and supply of PET bottles;  
▪ 
the manufacture and supply of 2-3L HDPE bottles;  
▪ 
the ability and incentive for the merged entity and Visy to foreclose 
competition in packaging markets; and  
▪ 
the manufacture and supply of plastic closures, PET preforms and PET and 
HDPE resins.  
26. 
Further information on these issues was sought from market participants through 
second phase market inquiries.  
Timing  
27. 
The following table outlines the timeline of key events in this matter.  
 
31 Jul 2007 
Pact Group advised ACCC of the proposed acquisition. ACCC 
commenced review under the Merger Review Process Guidelines. 
02 Aug 2007 
Market inquiries commence. 
07 Aug 2007 
ACCC requested further information from Pact Group. ACCC timeline 
suspended. 
14 Aug 2007 
ACCC received further information from Pact Group. ACCC timeline 
recommenced. 
20 Aug 2007 
Closing date for submissions from interested parties. 
21 Aug 2007 
ACCC requested further information from Pact Group. ACCC timeline 
suspended. 
10 Sept 2007 
ACCC received further information from Pact Group. ACCC timeline 
recommenced. 
13 Sept 2007 
ACCC published a Statement of Issues outlining preliminary 
competition concerns. Former proposed date of 19 September 2007 for 
announcement of ACCC’s findings amended to 19 October 2007 to 
allow for consultation on Statement of Issues. 
20 Sept 2007 
ACCC requested further information from Pact Group and Brickwood. 
ACCC timeline suspended. 
26 Sept 2007 
Closing date for submissions relating to Statement of Issues. 
27 Sept 2007 
ACCC received partial response to information request dated 20 
September 2007. 
04 Oct 2007 
Former proposed date of 19 October 2007 for announcement of 
ACCC’s findings amended to 26 October 2007 to allow for 
consideration of further information received. 
19 Oct 2007 
Former proposed date of 26 October 2007 for announcement of 
ACCC’s findings suspended to allow for Pact Group to provide further 
information. Revised ACCC indicative decision date to be identified as 
soon as possible following receipt of Pact Group’s further submission.  
23 Oct 2007 
ACCC received further information from Pact Group. ACCC timeline 
recommenced. 
31 Oct 2007 
Proposed date for announcement of ACCC’s findings. 
 


Pact Group Pty Ltd - proposed acquisition of Brickwood Holdings Pty Ltd 
-6- 
Relationship between Pact Group and Visy 
28. In reaching its decision in relation to the proposed acquisition, the ACCC had 
regard to the commercial and family relationships between Pact Group and Visy, 
and the impact of these relationships on the likely effectiveness of competition 
between Pact Group and Visy post acquisition.  
29. The ACCC is concerned that the corporate relationship arising from the current 
financial arrangements and shared services arrangements (including potential 
information flows) between Pact Group and Visy make it unlikely that the merged 
entity and Visy would compete effectively against one another. In addition, the 
ACCC considered the incentives flowing from personal and family relationships 
between Pact Group and Visy post acquisition would similarly have the potential to 
undermine competition between the merged entity and Visy.  
Manufacture and supply of PET bottles 
Market definition  
 
30. The ACCC’s market inquiries indicated that while beverage suppliers may use a 
range of alternative packaging products, these alternatives are generally not close 
substitutes for the use of PET bottles due to:  
▪ 
functional properties of PET in that PET has superior barrier properties to other 
plastics, allows beverages to be quickly chilled and can be cold or warm filled, 
easily moulded into different shapes and easily stored and handled; and  
▪ 
end-customer preferences for PET bottles which have contributed to beverage 
suppliers’ growing demand for their products.  
31. 
In addition, there is limited supply side substitutability between large scale PET 
bottle manufacturing and the manufacturing of other packaging products. Market 
inquiries also indicated there is a very limited ability to supply PET bottles 
interstate due to the significant cost of transport relative to their value. 
Accordingly, the ACCC considered that the relevant markets in this matter 
included the markets for the manufacture and supply of PET bottles in 
Queensland, New South Wales and Victoria.  
Competition assessment  
 
32. 
Market inquiries indicated that, although Brickwood supplies lower volumes of 
PET bottles than Visy, Brickwood does impose a direct competitive constraint on 
Visy with respect to the supply of PET bottles to large beverage customers.  


Pact Group Pty Ltd - proposed acquisition of Brickwood Holdings Pty Ltd 
-7- 
33. 
The ACCC considered whether alternative PET bottle suppliers would provide a 
competitive constraint on the merged entity and Visy. Market inquiries indicated 
that the range of smaller PET bottle suppliers currently operating are likely to 
provide some level of competitive constraint with respect to the supply of PET 
bottles to small to medium beverage suppliers. However, smaller PET bottle 
suppliers would be unlikely to have the PET bottle manufacturing capacity or 
capability to meet the requirements of large beverage suppliers. In particular, 
large beverage customers are likely to require the reliable and flexible4 supply of 
high volumes of PET bottles (over approximately 100 million PET bottles per 
annum) through facilities in several states.  
34. 
Accordingly, the proposed acquisition would result in the removal of the most 
significant and direct competitive constraint on Visy in the supply of PET bottles 
to large beverage customers and the merged entity and Visy would be the major 
suppliers of PET bottles in Australia.  
35. 
The ACCC also considered the extent to which barriers to entry or expansion are 
present in the relevant markets. Market inquiries indicated that although PET 
bottle manufacturing can be scaled up in increments, the capital cost of 
establishing large scale PET bottle manufacturing operations is significant and 
much of these capital costs are sunk costs. The ACCC considered it unlikely that 
a new entrant would invest in significant PET bottle capacity on speculation that 
it may be able to subsequently secure supply agreements with large beverage 
customers.  
36. 
In terms of sponsored expansion based on long term supply agreements with 
large beverage suppliers, market inquiries indicated that smaller PET bottle 
manufacturers are likely to experience difficulty in securing such long term 
supply agreements in circumstances where they do not have a proven capability 
to reliably supply large beverage suppliers.  
37. 
Accordingly, the ACCC considered that there are significant impediments to 
reaching a large scale in PET bottle manufacturing. As such, it is unlikely a threat 
of sponsored expansion would impose a substantial competitive constraint on the 
merged entity and Visy.  
38. 
The ACCC also considered the extent to which large beverage customers may 
have countervailing power through their ability to manufacture PET bottles on an 
in-house basis. Market inquiries indicated that although large beverage suppliers 
would face comparable capital costs to an outsourced supplier in establishing in-
house PET bottle operations, in-house operations may provide long term cost 
advantages for large beverage customers through reduced freight and outsourced 
manufacturing costs.  
39. 
However, market inquiries indicated that there are significant advantages to 
outsourced supply of PET bottles for large beverage suppliers such as enabling 
beverage suppliers to focus on their core business and providing greater 
flexibility and product innovation to respond to changes in retail beverage 
markets.  
                                                 
4 In terms of the ability to vary bottle shapes and volumes over the term of a supply agreement.  


Pact Group Pty Ltd - proposed acquisition of Brickwood Holdings Pty Ltd 
-8- 
40. 
Market inquiries indicated that large beverage manufactures are likely to consider 
PET bottle manufacturing in this context rather than based on cost considerations 
alone. Accordingly, the ACCC considered that the threat of in-house PET bottle 
manufacturing by large beverage suppliers is unlikely to provide a substantial 
constraint on the merged entity and Visy.  
41. 
In conclusion, the ACCC considered that the proposed acquisition is likely to 
give rise to a substantial lessening of competition with respect to the manufacture 
and supply of PET bottles in Queensland, New South Wales and Victoria.  
Manufacture and supply of 2-3L HDPE bottles 
Market definition  
42. 
Market inquiries indicated that for dairy and fresh fruit juice suppliers, alternative 
packaging products are not generally close substitutes for the use of 2-3L HDPE 
bottles due to:  
▪ 
functional properties in that 2-3L bottles are able to be manufactured with an 
integrated handle5; and  
▪ 
end-user preferences for 2-3L HDPE bottles which have contributed to dairy 
and fresh fruit juice suppliers growing demand for their products.  
43. 
Market inquiries indicated there is some supply side substitutability between 2-3L 
HDPE bottle manufacturing and other plastic packaging manufacturing but no 
supply side substitutability with other packaging media. There is a very limited 
ability to supply 2-3L HDPE bottles interstate due to the significant cost of 
transport relative to their value.  
44. 
Accordingly, the ACCC considered that the relevant markets in this matter 
included the markets for the manufacture and supply of 2-3L HDPE bottles in 
Queensland, New South Wales and Victoria.  
Competition analysis  
45. 
The proposed acquisition would have resulted in the largest HDPE bottle supplier 
(Brickwood) being acquired by a recent entrant to HDPE bottle manufacture and 
supply (Pact Group). The merged entity would have had a strong position in the 
supply of 2-3L HDPE bottles in Queensland, New South Wales and Victoria.  
46. 
The ACCC considered whether alternative 2-3L HDPE bottle suppliers would 
provide a competitive constraint to the merged entity. Market inquiries indicated 
that post acquisition, 2-3L HDPE bottle customers located in Queensland, New 
South Wales and Victoria would have at least one alternative HDPE bottle 
supplier to the merged entity and that these suppliers would be well placed to 
expand 2-3L HDPE beverage bottle manufacturing and supply.  
                                                 
5 The ACCC notes that developments in packaging technology may result in an integrated handle for 
PET bottles being available on a cost effective basis in the future which may be substitutable for 2-3L 
HDPE bottles.  


Pact Group Pty Ltd - proposed acquisition of Brickwood Holdings Pty Ltd 
-9- 
47. 
Market inquiries also indicated that barriers to entry to the manufacturing of 
HDPE bottles are relatively low (notably lower than for PET bottles). This is 
because HDPE bottle manufacturing equipment is relatively inexpensive, and the 
perishable nature of milk and fresh juice means that HDPE bottles can viably be 
manufactured on a smaller scale at the site of beverage production.  
48. 
In addition, these relatively low barriers to entry are reflected in the ability of 
some 2-3L HDPE bottle customers to participate in in-house 2-3L HDPE bottle 
manufacturing joint ventures. The ACCC considered the viability of in-house 
manufacturing for some customers is likely to impose a constraint on the merged 
entity with respect to the supply of 2-3L HDPE bottles. 
49. 
Having considered all these factors, the ACCC considered that the proposed 
acquisition is unlikely to give rise to a substantial lessening of competition with 
respect to the manufacture and supply of 2-3L HDPE bottles in Queensland, New 
South Wales and Victoria. 
Ability and incentive to foreclose competition 
50. 
The ACCC considered whether the proposed acquisition would lead to 
competition concerns with respect to the potential for the merged entity, by itself 
or in combination with Visy, to impose conditions on the supply of packaging or 
related products to the detriment of competition.  
51. 
This could arise from the merged entity’s and Visy’s unique position as suppliers 
of a portfolio of complementary packaging products, including being the major 
suppliers of PET bottles in Australia. In particular, the merged entity and Visy 
could seek to foreclose competition with respect to the supply of packaging 
products by bundling or tying the supply of PET bottles with other packaging 
products.  
52. 
However, market inquiries did not indicate specific scenarios in which the 
merged entity and Visy would be likely to engage in such bundling conduct with 
the effect of substantially lessening competition.  
Plastic closures, PET preforms, PET and HDPE resin  
53. 
Further market inquiries confirmed the ACCC’s preliminary view, as expressed 
in the ACCC’s Statement of Issues, that the proposed acquisition was unlikely to 
give rise to a substantial lessening of competition with respect to the manufacture 
and supply of plastic closures, PET preforms and PET and HDPE resin.  
Conclusion 
54. 
On the basis set out above, the ACCC formed the view that the proposed 
acquisition would be likely to result in a substantial lessening of competition in 
the markets for the manufacture and supply of PET bottles in Queensland, New 
South Wales and Victoria, in contravention of section 50 of the Act.  
 
