 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13 September 2007 
 
Statement of Issues — Pact Group – proposed acquisition of 
Brickwood Holdings  
 
1. 
Outlined below is the Statement of Issues released by the Australian 
Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) in relation to the proposed 
acquisition of Brickwood Holdings Pty Limited, Logan Moulders Pty Ltd, Full 
View Plastics Pty Ltd and the units in the Full View Plastics Unit Trust 
(Brickwood) by Pact Group Pty Limited (Pact Group) (proposed 
acquisition).  
2. 
Pact Group is a holding company of VIP Plastic Packaging Pty Ltd, trading as 
VIP Packaging, Plaspak Packaging Pty Ltd, Alto Packaging Australia Pty Ltd 
and Baroda Packaging Pty Ltd. 
3. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well 
as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake.  
4. 
In accordance with the ACCC’s Merger Review Process Guidelines,1 the 
ACCC has established a secondary timeline for further consideration of the 
competition issues arising from the proposed acquisition.  The ACCC 
anticipates completing further market inquiries by 26 September 2007 with a 
proposed date for announcement of the ACCC’s decision of 19 October 2007.  
However, the anticipated timeline can change in line with the Merger Review 
Process Guidelines.  To keep abreast of possible changes in relation to timing 
and to find relevant documents, market participants should visit the Mergers 
Register on the ACCC’s website at www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister.  
5. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties 
(including customers, competitors, suppliers and other stakeholders) to ascertain 
and consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC.  It is also intended to 
provide the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making 
further submissions should they consider it necessary.  
                                                 
1 The ACCC’s Merger Review Process Guidelines are available on the ACCC’s website at 
www.accc.gov.au
1 


 
 
 
Background 
6. 
On 31 July 2007, Pact Group advised the ACCC of the public announcement of 
the proposed acquisition.  
Relevant Parties  
Brickwood  
 
7. 
Brickwood manufactures a range of packaging products including polyethylene 
terephthalate (PET) bottles, high density polyethylene (HDPE) bottles, PET 
preforms and plastic closures. Brickwood is also a significant purchaser of PET 
and HDPE resin. Brickwood's manufacturing operations are as follows:  
Entity 
State 
Products 
Brickwood 
Melbourne 
PET & HDPE bottles, closures  
Fullview plastics & water 
Sydney 
PET & HDPE bottles 
Logan Moulders 
Queensland 
PET & HDPE bottles, closures 
8. 
Brickwood related entities also participate in joint venture arrangements with 
National Foods Milk, Parmalat Australia and Dairy Farmers Co-Operative 
which include on-site blow-moulding facilities for HDPE and PET bottle 
manufacturing for milk and fruit juice products (dairy joint ventures).  The 
dairy joint ventures are not part of the proposed acquisition.  
Pact Group 
 
9. 
Pact Group manufactures and supplies a range of packaging products including 
PET, HDPE, polypropylene (PP) bottles and polyvinyl chloride (PVC) bottles 
and containers and plastic closures through manufacturing operations in 
Queensland, New South Wales and Victoria. Pact Group has recently 
commenced manufacturing and supplying 2-3L HDPE beverage bottles in 
Victoria. Pact Group is also a significant purchaser of PET and HDPE resin.  
10. 
Pact Group also manufactures and supplies plastic products for the food and 
retail industries including jars, tubes, food trays and bowls as well as larger 
containers for industrial applications including tinplate pails, plastic pails and 
cubes and steel and plastic drums.  
11. 
Pact Group is privately owned by the Geminder family through a family trust 
(Geminder Trust). In 2002, a Pact Group related entity, Salvage Pty Ltd 
(Salvage)2, acquired the industrial packaging operations of Visy Industries 
Australia Pty Ltd (Visy). As part of the purchase of the Visy industrial 
packaging business, Visy entered into an agreement for the provision of 
corporate and shared services to Pact Group. In 2003, Visy entered into a loan 
agreement with Salvage to retire the pre-existing vendor finance transferred 
with the assets at the time of the acquisition.  
12. 
Since the purchase in 2002, Pact Group has taken steps to increase the 
                                                 
2 The Visy industrial packaging business was sold to a consortium including Salvage Pty Ltd, the 
corporate trustee for Geminder Trust, which is the ultimate owner of Pact Group.  
2 


 
 
 
separation between Pact Group and Visy including through reducing the extent 
to which Visy provides corporate and shared services and inputs to Pact Group. 
Recent steps include Pact Group directors resigning from directorships in Visy 
and related entities.  
Visy  
 
13. 
Visy is Australia’s largest packaging and recycling company. Visy’s operations 
include the:  
▪ 
manufacture and supply of beverage and food containers including PET 
bottles, PET preforms, PET jars, paperboard cartons and corrugated 
cardboard boxes; and  
▪ 
the collection and processing of recyclable materials and the manufacture 
and supply of recycled paper.  
14. 
Visy is privately owned by the Pratt family through a family trust (Pratt Trust).  
Relationship between Pact Group and Visy 
 
15. 
Market inquiries indicated that given the current operational dependence, 
information flows, financial relationships and incentives flowing from personal 
and family relationships between Pact Group and Visy, it is unlikely that the 
merged entity and Visy would compete effectively against one another.  
16. 
The ACCC has not formed a concluded view as to the relationship between Pact 
Group and Visy. The ACCC invites further information and views as to whether 
Visy is likely to be an effective competitor to Pact Group post-acquisition.  
17. 
In order to outline the likely competition concerns arising from the proposed 
acquisition, this Statement of Issues proceeds on the basis that Visy would not 
be an effective competitor to Pact Group post-acquisition.  
Market inquiries 
18. 
On 2 August 2007 the ACCC commenced market inquiries regarding the 
proposed acquisition.  A range of interested parties provided responses, 
including suppliers of packaging products, PET preforms and PET and HDPE 
resin, and customers for PET bottles, HDPE bottles, plastic closures, PET 
preforms and PET and HDPE resin.  
Industry background 
19. 
The packaging industry in Australia manufactures and supplies products for a 
wide range of packaging products including industrial and chemical products 
and fast moving consumer goods (FMCG) such as food and beverage, 
household consumer, pharmaceutical and personal care products. FMCG 
packaging products include:  
▪ 
beverage containers, such as PET and HDPE bottles, cartons, glass bottles 
and aluminium cans; and 
3 


 
 
 
                                                
▪ 
non-beverage containers, such as PET, HDPE, PP and PVC bottles and 
containers, cartons, glass bottles and jars, steel and aluminium cans and 
flexible packaging.  
20. 
Beverage container customers include carbonated soft drink suppliers (CSD), 
fruit juice, water, functional drinks (including sports and energy drinks) and 
dairy3 suppliers (beverage suppliers).  
21. 
CSD, water and functional drinks suppliers predominantly use PET bottles for 
packaging. While there are examples of large scale in-house manufacturing of 
PET bottles in the past by beverage suppliers, the industry is currently 
characterised by outsourced manufacturing and supply.  
22. 
Dairy and fruit juice suppliers predominantly use HPDE bottles for packaging 
milk and fruit juice, particularly in 2-3L bottle sizes. Dairy and fruit juice 
suppliers also use PET bottles and cartons for up to 1L bottle sizes. Given the 
perishable nature of milk and fruit juice and the need to shorten supply 
timeframes, there is a significant level of on-site/in-house supply of HDPE 
bottles by dairy and fruit juice suppliers through the dairy joint ventures referred 
to in paragraph 8 above.  
Statement of Issues 
23. 
For the purposes of this Statement of Issues, the issues in this matter are divided 
into three categories, ‘issues likely to give rise to concerns’, ‘issues that may 
give rise to concerns and ‘issues unlikely to pose concerns’. The ACCC is 
inviting information from interested parties in relation to all issues.  
Issues likely to raise concerns 
PET bottles 
24. 
Based on market inquiries, the ACCC considers that the proposed acquisition is 
likely to give rise to competition concerns with respect to the supply of PET 
bottles to beverage suppliers in Australia.  
25. 
Beverage suppliers may use a range of alternative packaging mediums including 
glass, aluminium cans and cartons and a range of plastic materials including 
HDPE, PP and PVC. However, market inquiries indicated that these alternatives 
are generally not close substitutes for the use of PET bottles due to:  
▪ 
functional properties of PET in that PET bottles can be cold or warm filled, 
easily moulded into different shapes, easily stored and handled and allow 
beverages to be quickly chilled; and  
▪ 
end-customer preferences for PET bottles which have contributed to 
beverage suppliers growing demand for their products.  
26. 
The proposed acquisition would lead to the merged entity and Visy being the 
 
3 Market inquiries indicated that dairy products including milk are generally classed by the packaging 
industry as non-beverages.  In contrast, dairy suppliers tend to treat milk as a beverage. For the purpose 
of this Statement of Issues, the ACCC has treated milk as a beverage.  
4 


 
 
 
major suppliers of PET bottles in Australia. In addition, market inquiries 
indicated that:  
▪ 
there may be structural and strategic barriers to entry such that it is unlikely 
that alternative suppliers would enter or significantly expand the 
manufacture or supply of PET bottles;  
▪ 
there may be risks for beverage suppliers sponsoring entry and expansion by 
alternative suppliers of PET bottles due to the critical nature of packaging in 
the beverage supply chain and concerns relating to reliability;  
▪ 
the ability of beverage suppliers to vertically integrate to manufacture PET 
bottles on an in-house basis may be limited because such integration would 
require significant investment and is outside the core business and expertise 
of beverage suppliers; and  
▪ 
there is a very limited ability to import PET bottles to Australia due to the 
inability of bottles to ‘nest’ and their significant volume relative to value.  
27. 
The ACCC invites further information and views as to:  
▪ 
the extent to which suppliers of alternative packaging materials (HDPE, PP, 
PVC) and mediums (cartons, glass, aluminium cans and flexible packaging) 
are likely to impose a competitive constraint on the merged entity with 
respect to its manufacture and supply of PET bottles;  
▪ 
the extent to which PET bottle suppliers in one state/territory may impose a 
competitive constraint upon PET bottle suppliers in other states/territories 
(including with respect to national supply contracts) given the significant 
cost of transporting PET bottles;  
▪ 
whether the competitive constraint imposed on the merged entity by Visy 
with respect to the manufacture and supply of PET bottles is likely to 
increase as a result of:  
- 
steps taken by Pact Group to reduce the extent to which Visy provides 
corporate and shared services to Pact Group; and 
- 
Pact Group directors resigning from directorships in Visy and related 
entities.  
▪ 
the extent to which potential entrants may be deterred by:  
- 
structural barriers such as the capital cost of establishing viable PET 
bottle manufacturing and warehousing operations in one or more 
geographic locations; and/or  
- 
strategic barriers such as difficulties in obtaining supply contracts or 
the fact incumbent firms have established operations in several 
geographic locations.  
▪ 
the extent to which beverage suppliers would be able to respond to an 
increase in the price, or a reduction in quality, with respect to the 
5 


 
 
 
manufacture and supply of PET bottles by:  
- 
sponsoring new entry or expansion by alternative suppliers by offering 
long term contracts with respect to the supply of PET bottles in one or 
more geographic locations; and/or  
- 
vertically integrating to manufacture PET bottles on an in-house basis 
in one or more geographic locations.  
Issues that may raise concerns 
Ability and incentive to foreclose competition  
28. 
Based on market inquiries to date, the ACCC considers that the proposed 
acquisition may lead to competition concerns with respect to the potential for 
the merged entity to impose conditions on the supply of packaging or related 
products to the detriment of competition.  
29. 
In particular, the proposed acquisition may give rise to an increased ability and 
incentive of the merged entity to significantly foreclose competition with 
respect to the supply of:  
▪ 
packaging products, including beverage containers, non-beverage containers 
and/or small industrial containers, by bundling or tying the supply of PET 
bottles and/or 2-3L HDPE bottles with other packaging products; and/or 
▪ 
plastic closures, by bundling or tying the supply of PET bottles and/or 2-3L 
HDPE bottles with plastic closures.  
30. 
Market inquiries indicated that competition in packaging markets in Australia 
may be substantially reduced if the proposed acquisition effectively forecloses 
alternative packaging and plastic closure suppliers from competing for a 
material proportion of packaging demand and thereby raises rivals’ costs. This 
may arise from the merged entity’s unique position as a supplier of a portfolio 
of complementary packaging products including PET bottles and 2-3L HDPE 
bottles.  
31. 
For example, the merged entity (either alone or in conjunction with Visy) may 
have the ability and incentive to bundle or tie, through conditional contractual 
terms, the supply of PET bottles and/or 2-3L HDPE bottles, with a range of its 
other packaging products, to the substantial detriment of competition.  Such 
conditions may include either:  
▪ 
providing certain discounts/rebates on PET bottles and/or 2-3L HDPE 
bottles if a customer also purchases other packaging products; or  
▪ 
refusing to, or otherwise limiting the supply of PET bottles and/or 2-3L 
HDPE bottles unless a customer also purchases other packaging products.  
32. 
These examples are necessarily a non-exhaustive account of the types of 
conduct that may foreclose competition. Bundling or tying of particular 
packaging products, including PET bottles and/or 2-3L HDPE bottles with other 
packaging products may significantly foreclose competing packaging suppliers 
6 


 
 
 
from winning customers, reduce their ability to achieve scale economies and 
raise their costs.  
33. 
The ACCC invites further information and views as to the extent to which:  
▪ 
customers consider security of supply to be an important consideration in 
purchasing packaging products;  
▪ 
customers presently purchase multiple and/or complementary packaging 
products and customers’ likely incentives to accept a bundle or tied offer of 
packaging products from the merged entity, such as to reduce transaction 
costs and secure discounts/rebates;  
▪ 
customers would have the ability to disaggregate their packaging purchases 
between multiple suppliers or source a comparable bundle of packaging 
products from any alternative supplier; and 
▪ 
whether the imposition of unwanted conditions on the supply of PET bottles 
and/or 2-3L HDPE bottles would be likely to lead to a reduction in sales of 
these products, such that the conduct would not be profitable for the merged 
entity.  
HDPE bottles 
34. 
Based on market inquiries, the ACCC considers that the proposed acquisition 
may give rise to competition concerns with respect to the supply of 2-3L HDPE 
bottles to dairy and fruit juice suppliers in Australia.  
35. 
Market inquiries indicated that alternative packaging products are not generally 
close substitutes for the use of 2-3L HDPE bottles due to:  
▪ 
functional properties in that 2-3L bottles are able to be manufactured with an 
integrated handle; and  
▪ 
end-user preferences for 2-3L HDPE bottles which have contributed to dairy 
and fruit juice suppliers growing demand for their products.  
36. 
The proposed acquisition would lead to the merged entity being the major 
outsourced supplier of 2-3L HDPE bottles in Australia. Market inquiries further 
indicated that:  
▪ 
the dairy joint ventures are unlikely to impose a competitive constraint on 
the merged entity in that they are focused on in-house supply;  
▪ 
there may be risks involved for beverage suppliers sponsoring entry and 
expansion by alternative suppliers of 2-3L HDPE bottles due to the critical 
nature of packaging in the dairy and fruit juice supply chain and concerns 
relating to reliability; and  
▪ 
there is a very limited ability to import 2-3L bottles to Australia due to the 
inability of bottles to ‘nest’ and their significant volume relative to value.  
7 


 
 
 
37. 
The ACCC invites further information and views as to:  
▪ 
whether the dairy joint ventures are likely to impose a competitive constraint 
on the merged entity either:  
- 
through the current operations of the dairy joint ventures; or  
- 
the potential expansion of the dairy joint ventures to supply 2-3L 
HDPE bottles to third parties;  
▪ 
whether dairy and fruit juice suppliers would be able to further vertically 
integrate to manufacture 2-3L HDPE bottles on an in-house basis; and  
▪ 
the extent to which Pact Group, as a recent entrant to the manufacturing and 
supply of 2-3L HDPE bottles would be likely to impose a competitive 
constraint on Brickwood in the absence of the proposed acquisition.  
Issues unlikely to pose concerns 
Plastic closures, PET preforms, PET and HDPE resin 
38. 
Based on market inquires, the ACCC considers that the proposed acquisition is 
unlikely to pose substantial competition concerns in relation to the supply of 
plastic closures, PET preforms, and PET and HDPE resin.  
39. 
Nonetheless, the ACCC will accept further submissions from industry 
participants and will further consider these product areas if it considers that such 
an assessment is warranted.  
ACCC's future steps 
 
40. 
The ACCC now seeks submissions from interested parties on each of the issues 
identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that may be relevant 
to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. Submissions are to be received by the 
ACCC no later than 26 September 2007.   
41. 
The ACCC will consider the submissions received from interested parties and 
Pact Group in light of the issues identified above and will, in conjunction with 
information and submissions already provided by Pact Group, come to a final 
view as to the appropriate course of action to take to resolve any competition 
concerns that remain.  
42. 
The ACCC intends to publicly announce its decision in relation to the proposed 
acquisition by 19 October 2007. However the anticipated timeline may change 
in line with the Merger Review Process Guidelines.  A Public Competition 
Assessment for the purpose of explaining the ACCC's final view may be 
published following the ACCC's public announcement.  
 
8 
