Market inquiries email – Pact Group Holdings Ltd’s proposed acquisition of 
Synergy Packaging Pty Ltd – 1 April 2022 
 
Dear interested party, 
Pact Group Holdings Ltd (Pact) proposes to acquire Synergy Packaging Pty Ltd 
(Synergy). We are seeking your views on this proposal because we understand your 
business may be affected, or you may have insights into the relevant markets. 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is an independent 
statutory authority responsible for investigating whether mergers are likely to 
substantially lessen competition.  
The parties 
Pact manufactures and supplies a wide range of plastic packaging products 
throughout Australia, including non-beverage polyethylene terephthalate (PET) 
containers. Pact is also involved in the supply of recycled PET (rPET) raw materials, 
with interests in the joint ventures Australian Recycled Plastic Pty Ltd, and Circular 
Plastics Australia (PET) Pty Ltd. 
Synergy manufactures and supplies plastic packaging products from its facility in 
Tullamarine, Victoria. It primarily supplies non-beverage PET containers to 
customers in the beauty, cosmetics, pharmaceutical and food industries. 
 
Information we are seeking 
Please provide a brief description of your business and the reasons for your interest 
in the proposed acquisition, including an explanation of any commercial relationship 
you have with either Pact or Synergy. This will help us to better understand your 
views.  
1. How do suppliers of non-beverage PET containers compete for customers? 
What factors are important to customers when choosing a supplier?  
2. How closely do Pact and Synergy compete? Please have regard to the 
factors listed above under question 1. 
3. Who are each of Pact and Synergy’s main competitors in the supply of non-
beverage PET containers? How do they compare in terms of the factors listed 
above under question 1?  
4. How do customers purchase non-beverage PET containers from suppliers? 
For example, do they run a tender process, or do they seek out a supplier in 
the market? What factors influence the purchasing process? 
5. How easily can customers of non-beverage PET containers switch suppliers? 
Please have regard to the costs and time involved, including when the 
supplier owns a relevant PET mould. 
6. What is the likelihood of new entry into the manufacture of non-beverage PET 
containers? How easily can suppliers of other plastic products switch to 
produce PET products? 
7. How easily can customers bypass local PET manufacturers, whether by 
making their own containers or importing containers themselves? 
8. How important is access to rPET raw materials for PET manufacturers and 
are such materials readily available in Australia? 


9. Do you have any concerns about the likely effect on competition of the 
proposed acquisition? Why/why not?   
How you can engage 
Please provide responses to our specific questions above. Please also address any 
other issues you think are relevant. We would be happy to receive your response by 
email, or have a discussion with you over the phone or via Microsoft Teams. 
This matter is public and you can forward this email to anybody who may be 
interested. Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the 
ACCC’s public mergers register here. 
If you would like to comment in writing, please do so by 21 April 2022 by return 
email. Alternatively, email or call me on (02) 6243 1027, or call Micaela Bassford on 
(02) 9102 4069, if you prefer to set up a time to discuss or if you need more time to 
respond. 
The ACCC treats sensitive information it receives during a merger review as 
confidential, and will not publish your submission. We will not disclose submissions to 
third parties (except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by law (for example, 
under freedom of information legislation or during court proceedings) or in 
accordance with s 155AAA of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Where the 
ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, we will notify you in advance 
where possible so that you have an opportunity to be heard. Therefore, please 
clearly indicate if any information you provide is confidential. Our Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
 
Kind regards, 
 
 
Owen Fischbein 
Graduate | Mergers, Exemptions & Digital Division 
Australian Competition & Consumer Commission  
Level 2 | 23 Marcus Clarke St, Canberra ACT 2601 
T: + 61 2 6243 1027 
http://www.accc.gov.au 
 
The ACCC acknowledges the traditional owners and custodians of Country throughout 
Australia and recognises their continuing connection to the land, sea and community.  
We pay our respects to them and their cultures; and to their Elders past, present and future. 
 
 
