 
 
 
24 November 2011 
 
Statement of Issues — Pact Group Pty Limited – 
proposed acquisition of Viscount Plastics Pty Limited 
1. 
Outlined below is the Statement of Issues released by the Australian Competition 
and Consumer Commission (ACCC) in relation to the proposed acquisition of 
Viscount Plastics Pty Limited (Viscount) by Pact Group Pty Limited (Pact) 
(proposed acquisition). 
2. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well 
as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
3. 
In line with the ACCC’s Merger Review Process Guidelines (available on the 
ACCC’s website at www.accc.gov.au) the ACCC has established a secondary 
timeline for further consideration of the issues. The ACCC anticipates completing 
further market inquiries by 15 December 2011 and anticipates making a final 
decision by 19 January 2012. However, the anticipated timeline can change in 
line with the Merger Review Process Guidelines. To keep abreast of possible 
changes in relation to timing and to find relevant documents, market participants 
should visit the Mergers Register on the ACCC's website at 
www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
4. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 
Background 
5. 
On 4 October 2011, the ACCC commenced a public review of the proposed 
acquisition after receiving a submission on 3 October 2011 from Pact seeking 
clearance from the ACCC for the proposed acquisition. 
6. 
The ACCC has commenced a public review of a proposed acquisition by Pact of 
Viscount on two previous occasions – 28 April 2008 and 14 April 2009. In each 
of these reviews, the ACCC released a Statement of Issues outlining preliminary 
competition concerns with the proposed acquisition. On each occasion the review 
was discontinued at the request of the merger parties.  


 
 
2
The parties 
Pact Group Pty Limited 
7. 
Pact manufactures a diverse range of plastic and non-plastic products for different 
packaging applications. Pact’s product range includes rigid plastic food 
containers, bottles, jars, tubes, jerry cans, cubes, pails, plastic and steel drums, 
trays and closures. 
8. 
Pact’s packaging business is managed through several wholly-owned subsidiaries 
that operate under their own name and brand, including: VIP Packaging, Alto 
Packaging, Signum, Baroda Packaging, Brickwood, Plaspak, Salient Asia Pacific 
and Atlas Plastics. A wholly owned subsidiary of Pact also has partial 
shareholdings in Pro-Pac Packaging Limited and National Can Industries Limited 
(NCI). 
9. 
Pact is controlled by Raphael Geminder, husband of Fiona Geminder. Fiona 
Geminder is a member of the Pratt family. 
Viscount Plastics Pty Limited 
10. 
Viscount is a packaging, supply chain and logistics solutions provider. Viscount’s 
product range includes rigid plastic containers, food packaging, plastic materials 
handling and lubricant packaging. 
11. 
Viscount has operations in Australia, New Zealand, China and Malaysia, 
including packaging plants in Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria and 
Western Australia. 
12. 
Viscount is a division of LINPAC Group Limited (LINPAC) a global packaging 
and materials handling company that has been owned by a consortium of lenders 
since 2009. 
Other industry participants 
Visy Industries Australia Pty Ltd 
13. 
Visy Industries Australia Pty Ltd (Visy) is Australia’s largest packaging and 
recycling company. Visy’s operations include: 
• the manufacture and supply of beverage and food containers including PET 
bottles, PET preforms, PET jars, aluminium and tinplate cans, paperboard 
cartons and corrugated cardboard boxes; and 
• the collection and processing of recyclable materials and the manufacture and 
supply of recycled paper. 
14. 
Visy is privately owned by the Pratt family through a family trust. 
15. 
In previous matters, the ACCC has had regard to the relationship between Pact 
and Visy, and the impact of this relationship on the likely effectiveness of 
competition between Pact and Visy post-acquisition. In assessing the competitive 


 
 
3
effects of the proposed acquisition, the ACCC will have regard to whether current 
and historical relationships, including financial and corporate links between Pact, 
Visy and their respective principals, may impact on the effectiveness of 
competition between Pact and Visy. 
National Can Industries Limited 
16. 
NCI is an ASX listed company that supplies a range of plastic and metal 
packaging products including plastic and tinplate pails, aerosol cans and plastic 
closures for application in a range of industries including paint, chemicals and 
food packaging. 
17. 
A wholly owned subsidiary of Pact (Bennamon Pty Ltd) holds a 19.99% 
shareholding in NCI.  
18. 
Over 50% of the shares in NCI are owned by Tyrrell Investments Pty Ltd and its 
related corporations and associates, who are unrelated to Pact or Visy. 
Areas of overlap 
19. 
The ACCC considers that the following areas of overlap exist between the parties 
identified above: 
• Pact, Viscount and NCI each supply plastic pails; 
• Pact and Viscount both supply plastic cartridges; 
• Pact and Viscount both supply materials handling products; and 
• Pact, Viscount and Visy each supply PET bottles, though Viscount only has 
PET manufacturing facilities in Western Australia. 
The transaction 
20. 
Pact is proposing to acquire 100% of the shares in Viscount. 
Market inquiries 
21. 
On 5 October 2011, the ACCC commenced market inquiries regarding the 
proposed acquisition. A range of interested parties provided responses, including 
other suppliers and customers. 
With/without test 
22. 
In assessing an acquisition pursuant to section 50 of the Competition and 
Consumer Act 2010, the ACCC must consider the effects of the transaction by 
comparing the likely competitive environment post-acquisition if the transaction 
proceeds (the “with” position) to the likely competitive environment if the 
transaction does not proceed (the “without” position or “counterfactual” position) 
to determine whether the acquisition is likely to substantially lessen competition 
in any relevant market.  


 
 
4
23. 
In the event that Pact does not acquire Viscount, the ACCC considers the likely 
counterfactual to be that Viscount will continue to operate as an independent 
competitor, either under current or new ownership. However, the ACCC 
recognises that if Viscount remains under current ownership, there is uncertainty 
regarding the level of ongoing capital funding that Viscount will receive from the 
banking consortium that currently control LINPAC. 
Market definition 
24. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the following markets are relevant to its 
consideration of the proposed acquisition: 
• the national market for the manufacture and supply of plastic pails; 
• the national market for the manufacture and supply of plastic cartridges; 
• the market for the manufacture and supply of PET beverage bottles in Western 
Australia; and 
• the national market(s) for the manufacture and supply of materials handling 
products. 
National market for the manufacture and supply of plastic pails 
Extent of substitution between plastic pails and other plastic storage products 
25. 
Plastic pails are open head containers used for storing and transporting food, 
chemicals, surface coatings, adhesives, pharmaceuticals and agricultural products 
and can range in size up to 25L. An open head container is a container with a 
large opening, being a similar size to the rest of the container; this is 
differentiated from a closed head container such as a bottle where the opening is 
relatively smaller than the rest of the container. Plastic pails can be square or 
round and may or may not have a handle. 
26. 
Market inquiries to date have suggested that there is limited demand side 
substitution from plastic pails to other types of containers, such as plastic bottles, 
cubes or ‘bag in a box’ (a plastic bladder situated inside a cardboard box) 
systems. The ACCC understands that a customer’s storage container choice is 
largely determined by the functionality required. Customers will opt to package 
their product in pails when they require an ‘open head’ container. The ACCC 
considers that any substitution from plastic pails to other types of plastic 
packaging is at the fringes. 
27. 
Plastic pails are manufactured using injection moulding. Injection moulded 
containers are made by melting plastic polymer granules in a heated barrel and 
then injecting these into a mould which cools and solidifies the plastic into the 
finished product.  
28. 
The ACCC considers that there is limited supply side substitution between plastic 
pails and other injection moulded products. While injection moulding can be used 
to produce other types of plastic packaging of different functionality (such as 
plastic cartridges), the ACCC notes that a supplier using an injection moulding 


 
 
5
machine to produce other products would still need to buy and setup a new mould 
for each unique model of plastic pail they intended to manufacture, with 
associated capital costs and lead times. 
29. 
The ACCC understands that there is no supply side substitution between the 
manufacture of plastic pails and other types of packaging such as plastic cubes, 
bottles or ‘bag in a box’ systems. Because these products are created by different 
manufacturing equipment and processes, firms producing other types of small 
industrial packaging would require significant capital investment in order to 
produce plastic pails. 
Extent of substitution between plastic pails and tinplate pails 
30. 
The ACCC understands that there is functional substitutability between tinplate 
pails and plastic pails in some uses (e.g. paint) but that for the majority of plastic 
pail customers, tinplate pails are not regarded as a viable alternative. For 
example, the ACCC understands that tinplate’s susceptibility to denting and 
losing its shape makes it less suitable for use on industrial worksites. Similarly, 
tinplate pails may not be suitable for many food applications because of rusting 
and food contamination issues.  
31. 
Market inquiries have indicated that tinplate pails can be approximately 40% 
more expensive than plastic pails for larger pail sizes. The ACCC understands 
that this cost differential limits customer willingness to substitute from plastic 
pails to tinplate pails, even where they provide similar functionality. 
32. 
On the supply side, the manufacturing processes for tinplate pails and plastic 
pails are vastly different, utilising different machinery and different raw 
materials. 
Geographic dimension 
33. 
The majority of suppliers of plastic pails manufacture their pails in one or two 
plants, from which they distribute nationally. Large contracts are typically 
negotiated on a national basis. Accordingly, the ACCC considers that the market 
for plastic pails is likely to be national. 
34. 
The ACCC therefore considers that the relevant market is the national market for 
the manufacture and supply of plastic pails. 
National market for the manufacture and supply of plastic cartridges 
35. 
Plastic cartridges are tube shaped containers designed to package and dispense 
adhesives, lubricants and sealants. A nozzle provides control in applying the 
sealant/adhesive and the sizing and shape is designed to fit into an applicator gun. 
The ACCC understands that there are no other packaging products available that 
offer a functional substitute for cartridges. 
36. 
There are two types of plastic cartridges – grease cartridges and building 
cartridges. Grease cartridges are manufactured to hold motor oils, lubricants and 
coolants, while building cartridges are manufactured to hold glues and sealants. 
The difference in end uses means that grease cartridges and building cartridges 


 
 
6
are designed and manufactured to different specifications and are supplied to 
different types of customers. The ACCC understands that there is no demand side 
substitution between cartridge types. 
37. 
The ACCC’s market inquiries to date suggest that both types of cartridge are 
manufactured using similar processes of injection moulding, and that supply side 
substitution may be possible from the supply of building to grease cartridges. 
38. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the appropriate product market is the 
market for the supply of plastic cartridges. However the ACCC also recognises 
that the proposed acquisition may have different effects on competition for the 
supply of building and grease cartridges, and that separate markets for each of 
building and grease cartridges may be appropriate. 
39. 
Both Viscount and Pact Group manufacture cartridges in plants in the eastern 
States and distribute their product to customers across Australia. The ACCC 
therefore considers that the relevant market is national.  
Market for the manufacture and supply of PET beverage bottles in Western 
Australia 
40. 
The ACCC has considered the extent of substitutability between PET beverage 
containers and other types of beverage containers in the context of its previous 
reviews of Pact’s proposed acquisition of Brickwood Holdings Pty Ltd, and the 
2008 and 2009 reviews of the currently proposed acquisition.  
41. 
Consistent with the approach taken in those previous reviews, the ACCC 
considers that particular characteristics of PET bottles limit their demand-side 
substitutability with other types of beverage containers: 
• functional (technical properties). PET bottles can be cold or hot filled, hold 
carbonation, have greater structural integrity and barrier properties than other 
plastic bottles of similar weight, and are easily stored and handled; 
• end-customer preferences. PET bottles offer visual clarity and lower weight; 
and 
• filling and packing. Machinery used by beverage suppliers to fill containers 
is specific to the volume, neck size and type of container. In particular, 
machinery used to fill empty bottles is different to that used to fill other 
containers such as cans, glass or cartons. 
42. 
PET bottles are manufactured using a blow moulding process. This encompasses: 
• first, the creation of a PET preform through an injection moulding process, 
which determines the neck and weight of the final bottle; and 
• second, the preform is heated and air is blown into it, so that the preform 
expands to take the bottle’s desired shape. 
43. 
PET bottles can be manufactured using either a single stage or two stage process. 
In a single stage process, the two phases of blow moulded PET container 


 
 
7
production take place consecutively on the same machine. In a two stage process, 
preforms are moulded by an injection moulding machine which produces fully 
cooled preforms. A separate machine is then used to blow mould the preforms 
into bottles. A single stage process is slower, and best suited for lower volume 
and shorter production runs. 
44. 
The ACCC understands that the machines used to produce PET bottles are 
different to those used for the manufacture of other beverage bottle types. 
Therefore a manufacturer of another type of beverage container would require 
considerable capital outlay in order to switch to the manufacture of PET.  
45. 
Due to the constraints on both supply and demand side substitutability, the ACCC 
considers that the appropriate product market definition is the manufacture and 
supply of PET beverage bottles. 
46. 
Viscount’s PET manufacturing operations are confined to Western Australia. 
PET beverage bottles are high volume, non-nestable (non-stackable) products, 
with low value relative to transport cost. Consistent with this, the ACCC 
understands that almost all PET bottles sold in Western Australia are 
manufactured locally. The ACCC therefore considers that the appropriate 
geographic market definition is the manufacture and supply of PET beverage 
bottles in Western Australia.  
National market(s) for the manufacture and supply of materials handling 
products. 
47. 
Materials handling relates to the systems or combinations of methods, facilities, 
labour and equipment for moving, packing and storing materials. Materials 
handling products include crates, trays, warehouse containers and produce bins. 
48. 
The ACCC does not consider it necessary to come to a definitive view on market 
definition for material handling products because competition concerns appear 
unlikely to arise whether the market is defined narrowly (in terms of separate 
markets for the supply of particular products such as pallets) or broadly.  
49. 
The ACCC understands that materials handling products are typically distributed 
nationally and therefore considers that the relevant market(s) is / are national. 
Statement of issues 
50. 
For the purposes of this Statement of Issues, the issues in this matter are divided 
into two categories 'issues that may raise concerns' and 'issues unlikely to pose 
concerns'. 
Issues that may raise concerns 
National market for the manufacture and supply of plastic pails 
51. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition may substantially lessen 
competition for the supply of plastic pails in Australia. The ACCC is considering 
the extent to which the proposed acquisition would allow the merged firm to 
unilaterally, or in coordination with NCI, increase prices for plastic pails. 


 
 
8
52. 
The merger parties are two of the three largest domestic manufacturers of plastic 
pails (being Pact, Viscount and NCI). The proposed acquisition would remove a 
key competitor of similar scale and product range to Pact. 
53. 
NCI has a plastic pail business of similar size to each of Pact and Viscount, and 
supplies a broad range of plastic pails as well as other packaging products.  
54. 
Pact, Viscount and NCI account for upwards of 60% of market sales by revenue. 
55. 
As noted above, while NCI is controlled by Tyrrell Investments Pty Ltd and its 
related corporations and associates, a wholly owned subsidiary of Pact holds a 
19.99% shareholding in NCI. The ACCC is considering the extent to which this 
shareholding may affect the merged firm’s incentive to compete effectively 
against NCI, given that it would enjoy 19.99% of NCI’s profits.  
56. 
The ACCC is also considering the extent to which Pact’s shareholding may affect 
NCI’s willingness and ability to compete against and constrain the merged firm. 
In particular the ACCC is considering the extent to which Pact’s shareholding 
could be used to: 
• facilitate coordination between Pact and NCI - by Pact using its votes at an 
AGM to vote against director appointments or remuneration reports to 
‘punish’ effective competitive behaviour by NCI’s management; and / or 
• prevent NCI from making significant equity capital raisings (and thereby 
hinder potential expansion opportunities) in circumstances where Tyrrell 
Investments was prevented from voting on the relevant resolution(s). 
57. 
In addition to NCI, there are also a number of smaller suppliers competing in the 
market. The ACCC understands that these suppliers range in size from 1 - 8% of 
the market, based on sales. Market inquiries to date have suggested that these 
firms have had an impact on competition for supply to some customers, 
particularly customers that require lesser quantities of pails. Market participants 
indicated that these smaller suppliers:  
• may be price competitive for supply to some customers. Lower overheads, 
and a focus on more popular pail sizes, allow these firms to compete on price 
with the three larger manufacturers for particular pail sizes and quantities; 
• are looking to expand their capacity. The ACCC understands that many of 
these firms do not have significant levels of excess capacity. However, some 
indicated they would be in a position to expand their capacity by purchasing 
new machinery, so long as they are able to secure sufficient new contracts 
capable of funding the capital costs associated with expansion; and 
• compete with larger pail suppliers for supply to some customers. These 
firms have in some cases attracted business from the merger parties. 
However, market inquiries have also identified limits on the extent of competitive 
constraint imposed by smaller suppliers. In particular: 


 
 
9
• limited range and current capacity. These firms may be currently unable to 
produce the full range of pail sizes required by some customers, and without 
further capital expenditure would not be capable of providing the quantity of 
pails required by high-demand customers currently supplied by Pact, Viscount 
or NCI; 
• inability to produce ‘anti-skinning’ pails. The ACCC understands that the 
extent of supply by these companies to paint companies is very limited. The 
ACCC understands that Pact, Viscount and NCI have developed plastic pails 
that minimise or prevent a ‘skin’ from developing on paint stored in those pails. 
Smaller suppliers do not produce ‘anti-skinning’ pails; 
• customer reluctance. For some customers, plastic pails constitute an integral 
part of their finished product but only a small portion of the total cost of 
production or the price of the finished product. Market inquiries have revealed 
reluctance amongst such customers to trust smaller and less established 
suppliers with their plastic pail supply; and 
• switching costs. The ACCC understands that testing pails of a potential new 
supplier for quality, durability and design before use involves use of internal 
resources that could otherwise be put to more productive uses. Customers 
therefore face costs associated with inviting new or untested suppliers to tender 
for supply.  
The ACCC considers that these factors may constitute barriers to the expansion 
of small firms, and that these barriers to expansion may prevent the smaller firms 
from acting as a sufficient constraint to the merged firm in the event that the 
merged firm sought to increase the price of its plastic pails. 
The ACCC invites comments from interested parties on the potential competitive 
constraint likely to be imposed on the merged firm by NCI and smaller suppliers 
The ACCC seeks further information (and where possible, specific examples) on: 
• tenders or other supply opportunities won by NCI, or smaller suppliers, in 
competition with Pact and / or Viscount and the proportion of total tenders / 
supply opportunities for which smaller suppliers are a competitive constraint; 
• the importance of ‘anti-skinning’ pails to paint companies, and the extent of 
substitution between ‘anti-skinning’ pails and tinplate pails; 
• the extent to which Pact competes with Viscount in respect of ‘anti-skinning’ 
pails; 
• the costs associated with testing pails of a potential new supplier, switching 
suppliers of plastic pails, and/or sourcing plastic pails from multiple suppliers. 


 
 
10
Imports  
58. 
A number of market participants have indicated that imports provide only a weak 
source of competitive constraint upon domestic supply. Particular difficulties 
identified with importing plastic pails include: 
• landed price of imports. Some market participants identified that the landed 
cost of imports can be cheaper for smaller pail sizes. However, the ACCC 
understands that for larger sizes (10L and above) the landed cost of imports 
may be above those for locally produced pails. 
• security of supply. Imports of plastic pails involve long lead times when 
compared to domestic supply (weeks compared to 1-3 days). These lead times 
mean that if there is any supply disruption, or if the customer has an 
unexpected increase in demand for their product, obtaining replacement / 
additional supply may take some time, which may potentially cause a 
disruption to the customer’s core operations;  
• warehousing costs. Market inquires revealed a concern that customers would 
need to warehouse significant quantities of pails if relying on imports, with 
associated storage and inventory management costs, especially where a 
customer is otherwise operating a just-in-time inventory management system 
and has a number of product lines; and 
• perceived quality issues. Some market participants have expressed concerns 
about the quality of imported products.  
59. 
However, the ACCC is also considering the extent to which customers 
benchmark domestic prices to import prices, such that imports may act as a 
competitive constraint, even in circumstances where there is not a substantial 
quantity of plastic pails being imported. 
60. 
The ACCC is also aware of a number of customers that import plastic pails pre-
filled with their contents. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that most pail 
customers are not in a position to directly substitute to importing pre-filled pails 
in response to a small but significant increase in the price of domestically 
manufactured pails. The ACCC understands that most imports of pre-filled pails 
are the result of procurement decisions relating to the source of the contents of 
the pail, rather than being the result of decisions relating to prices of the pails 
themselves. 
61. 
The ACCC recognises that customers that acquire domestically manufactured 
plastic pails may compete in downstream markets against parties that import pre-
filled plastic pails, and that there may be a degree of indirect downstream 
constraint to the merged firm from pre-filled pails. However, the ACCC also 
understands that for some customers, the price of plastic pails as an input only 
constitutes a small portion of the total cost of production of the finished product. 
Accordingly, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that imports of filled pails would 
not provide a strong constraint to the merged firm.  


 
 
11
62. 
The ACCC is seeking further information and comment on the competitive 
constraint imposed by imports of plastic pails on domestic supply. 
The ACCC invites comments from interested parties on the competitive constraint 
provided by imports of plastic pails  
The ACCC seeks examples or estimates of: 
• the landed cost of importing unfilled pails (across a range of sizes); and 
• other costs associated with importing or storing imported pails. 
The ACCC seeks further detailed information on: 
• whether imported pails have significantly longer lead times than domestically 
manufactured pails, and if so, the impact of longer lead times on a customer’s 
production or storage processes; and 
• whether there are quality issues associated with imported pails, including recent 
examples of quality concerns with imported pails, or the basis upon which 
quality concerns are held; and 
• the extent to which customers seek quotes from importers, and benchmark 
domestic prices against those quotes, as part of their procurement process. 
National market for the manufacture and supply of plastic cartridges 
63. 
Pact (including its controlled subsidiary Bev-Cap Pty Ltd) is active in supplying 
and tendering to supply building and grease cartridges to domestic customers. 
Viscount is the predominant supplier of building cartridges, but does not 
presently supply grease cartridges. There are no other significant domestic 
suppliers of plastic cartridges. 
64. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition may substantially lessen 
competition in the supply of plastic cartridges by combining the only two 
significant domestic suppliers of building cartridges. 
65. 
The ACCC has also considered whether the proposed acquisition would remove 
Viscount as a potential future supplier of grease cartridges. Based on market 
inquiries and information received from Pact and Viscount, the ACCC’s 
preliminary view is that this is unlikely. Further, the ACCC understands that 
grease cartridges are not a technically complex product to manufacture, and that 
Viscount may not be any more likely an entrant into grease cartridges than some 
current manufacturers of other injection moulded products. 
Barriers to entry 
66. 
The ACCC is assessing the likelihood that a new entrant would commence 
manufacture and supply of building cartridges in Australia in the event that the 
merged firm sought to increase prices or reduce service and innovation, and the 
potential for customer sponsorship of such new entry. 


 
 
12
67. 
The most recent entry into building cartridges was the sponsored entry of Baroda 
(at the time independent of Pact) in 2007. The ACCC understands that Baroda’s 
entry may have resulted in lower prices for some customers of building 
cartridges, but may not have resulted in materially lower prices for all customers.  
68. 
The ACCC understands that the sunk capital costs associated with plastic 
cartridge manufacture may not be substantial. However, the ACCC’s preliminary 
view is that the limited number of building cartridge customers means that as a 
practical matter, new entry is only likely to occur where that entry is sponsored. 
The ACCC understands that customers may also acquire other plastic or 
packaging products from their building cartridge suppliers. The ACCC considers 
that these pre-existing broader relationships between customers and suppliers 
may: 
• lessen the likelihood of customers sponsoring entry in respect of a single 
product – building cartridges - due to the possibility of losing discounts or 
transactional efficiencies associated with purchasing a range of products from 
a single supplier; and 
• to the extent that a potential new entrant doesn’t already produce related 
packaging products, increase the range of products that a potential new 
supplier would need to enter in order to effectively compete in building 
cartridges. 
69. 
The ACCC further understands that, notwithstanding the lower prices that 
resulted from Baroda’s entry, quality control issues that affected Baroda shortly 
after its entry may mean that market participants would be presently less willing 
to sponsor new entry than they were in 2007. However, the ACCC also 
understands that amended building cartridge specifications introduced since 2007 
may mean that the issues that affected Baroda would be less likely to affect a new 
entrant today. 
The ACCC invites comments from interested parties on the likelihood of entry 
into the supply of building cartridges and the likely price effect of new entry 
The ACCC seeks further detailed information on the likelihood of other parties, 
with or without previous experience in injection moulding, commencing supply of 
building cartridges. In particular the ACCC is interested in: 
• the effect of Baroda’s entry in 2007 on the prices paid for building cartridges at 
the time by both customers who sponsored Baroda’s entry, and by other 
building cartridge customers; 
• whether any other companies have expressed a willingness to supply, or an 
interest in supplying, building cartridges; 
• the likelihood of a potential new entrant being affected by quality control issues 
of the kind that affected Baroda upon its entry into building cartridges; and 


 
 
13
• whether building cartridge customers also acquire a range of other plastic or 
packaging products from their plastic cartridge suppliers, and if so, the 
likelihood of customers sponsoring the entry of a new supplier for just one 
product – building cartridges. 
Imports  
70. 
The ACCC’s market inquiries to date have identified limits on the viability of 
importing unfilled plastic cartridges similar to those outlined above in respect of 
plastic pails, namely: security of supply, warehousing costs, and perceived 
quality issues (in the case of building cartridges this also includes the quality of 
decoration available on imported cartridges). The ACCC understands that despite 
these limitations, some building cartridge customers benchmark domestic prices 
to import prices for unfilled cartridges. The ACCC is interested in receiving 
further information about the ability and incentive of customers to source unfilled 
plastic cartridges from overseas. 
71. 
The ACCC also understands that some building cartridge customers import pre-
filled cartridges for some or all of their product lines. The ACCC is interested in 
whether a significant proportion of building cartridge customers would have the 
ability and incentive to substitute to importing a material proportion of their 
product lines as pre-filled building cartridges in response to a small but 
significant increase in the price of domestically manufactured unfilled building 
cartridges. 
72. 
The ACCC recognises that customers that acquire domestically manufactured 
building cartridges may compete in downstream markets against parties that 
import pre-filled building cartridges, and that there may be a degree of indirect 
downstream constraint to the merged firm from pre-filled building cartridges. 
Consistent with the discussion of imported pre-filled plastic pails given above, 
the ACCC’s preliminary view is that imports of pre-filled building cartridges 
would not provide a strong constraint to the merged firm. 
73. 
The ACCC is seeking further information and comment on the competitive 
constraint imposed by imports of building cartridges on domestic supply. 
The ACCC invites comments from interested parties on the competitive constraint 
provided by imports of building cartridges 
The ACCC seeks examples or estimates of: 
• the landed cost of importing unfilled building cartridges; and 
• other costs associated with importing or storing imported cartridges. 
The ACCC seeks further detailed information on: 
• whether imported building cartridges have significantly longer lead times than 
domestically manufactured cartridges, and if so, the impact of longer lead times 
on a customer’s production or storage processes; and 


 
 
14
• whether there are quality issues associated with imported building cartridges, 
including recent examples of quality concerns with imported cartridges, or the 
basis upon which quality concerns are held; and 
• the extent to which customers seek quotes from importers of unfilled and / or 
pre-filled building cartridges, and benchmark domestic prices against those 
quotes, as part of their procurement process. 
Market for the manufacture and supply of PET bottles in Western Australia 
74. 
The ACCC understands that Pact, Viscount and Visy are the only suppliers of 
PET bottles to third-party Western Australian customers. Pact’s involvement in 
this market is currently minimal, arising from supply by Pact of small volumes to 
limited customers from its interstate manufacturing operations. Visy and 
Viscount both manufacture PET bottles in Western Australia. The ACCC 
understands that while Visy is of a significantly larger scale than Viscount, Visy 
and Viscount compete for Western Australian PET customers with annual 
requirements of less than 15 million units per annum (approximately). The ACCC 
has therefore focussed its review on customers of this size. 
75. 
The ACCC queries whether the proposed acquisition would represent a bare 
transfer of market share from Viscount to Pact. In the ACCC’s view, Pact may 
not provide effective independent competition to Visy as a result of the current 
and historical relationships, including financial and corporate links between Pact, 
Visy and their respective principals. Accordingly, the ACCC is concerned that 
the proposed acquisition may remove or mute the actual and potential 
competition that currently exists between two independent suppliers of PET 
bottles in WA. 
Barriers to entry 
76. 
The ACCC is assessing the likelihood of new entry into the manufacture and 
supply of PET bottles in WA in the event that Pact and Visy sought to increase 
prices to WA customers, having regard to the commercial incentive for entry and 
the barriers to such entry. Particular parties being considered as possible entrants 
are parties who currently manufacture PET bottles outside of Western Australia, 
and manufacturers of other bottle types (such as HDPE) with existing production 
facilities in Western Australia. 
77. 
Coca-Cola Amatil has made public statements that it plans to move to 100% self 
sufficiency in PET bottle manufacture in Australia by 2015. The ACCC’s 
preliminary view is that the significant excess manufacturing capacity of 
incumbent suppliers (especially after Coca-Cola Amatil moves to in-house PET 
bottle supply) may represent a strategic barrier to entry to the WA market. 
The ACCC invites comments from interested parties on the likelihood of new 
entry into PET supply in Western Australia. 
The ACCC seeks further information on: 


 
 
15
•  the costs and incentives of new suppliers entering the Western Australia market 
to supply customers of less than approximately 15 million units per annum; and  
• the likely impact of CCA’s planned move towards in-house production (and the 
excess capacity that the move may create for incumbent suppliers) on those 
incentives. 
Countervailing power 
78. 
As noted above in respect of Coca-Cola Amatil, the ACCC recognises that there 
are examples of companies that either currently manufacture, or have current 
plans to manufacture, PET bottles in-house in Western Australia. 
79. 
The ACCC is investigating the incentives of current Western Australian PET 
customers to switch to in-house manufacture in response to a small but significant 
increase in the price of PET bottles. The ACCC’s market inquiries suggest that 
PET bottle customers in WA over whom Viscount and Visy compete currently 
have little interest in the capital investment and development of expertise in non-
core manufacturing operations associated with in-house manufacture of PET 
bottles. 
80. 
However, the ACCC notes that there are multiple types of PET production 
processes, and that customers may be able to acquire small scale single stage 
machines for relatively low capital expenditure. In this context the ACCC is 
considering whether the incentives of customers who purchase fewer than 4 
million units per annum to commence in-house manufacture of PET bottles are 
different to the incentives of customers who purchase between 4 million and 15 
million units per annum. The ACCC understands that customers who acquire less 
than 15 million units per annum acquire approximately 13% of total Western 
Australian PET bottle production, but constitute the majority of Western 
Australian PET bottle customers by number.  
The ACCC invites comments from interested parties on the likelihood of PET 
customers moving their manufacturing in-house 
In particular, the ACCC is seeking information relating to: 
• the current per unit cost of a PET bottle for Western Australian customers; 
• the likely per unit cost associated with small scale in-house PET bottle 
manufacture; 
• capital costs associated with purchasing single stage PET manufacturing 
equipment (including machinery cost and any other ancillary setup costs); and 
• any additional ongoing costs associated with in-house PET manufacture, such 
as additional labour to supervise the production process. 


 
 
16
Issues unlikely to pose concerns 
National market(s) for supply of materials handling products 
81. 
The ACCC has examined the potential for competition concerns to arise in 
relation to the national market(s) for the supply of materials handling products. 
82. 
The ACCC understands that the extent of product overlap and aggregation in 
materials handling products is very limited and that the merged firm would be 
constrained by other competitors. Market inquiries to date have not revealed 
concerns about the impact of the proposed acquisition in this sector. 
83. 
While the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is unlikely 
to raise significant competition concerns in the market(s) for the supply of 
materials handling products, the ACCC welcomes comments regarding its 
preliminary findings in this sector. 
ACCC's future steps 
84. 
The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers market responses 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
85. 
The ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on each of the issues 
identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that may be relevant 
to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. 
86. 
Submissions are to be received by the ACCC no later than 15 December 2011. 
The ACCC will consider the submissions received from the market and the 
merger parties in light of the issues identified above and will, in conjunction with 
information and submissions already provided by the parties, come to a final 
view. 
87. 
The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 19 January 2012. 
However the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Merger Review 
Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose of 
explaining the ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's public 
announcement. 
