 
Page 1 of 25 
 
Statement of Issues 
3 November 2016 
      Proposed merger of The Dow Chemical Company and 
E.I. Du Pont de Nemours and Company 
Purpose 
1. 
The Dow Chemical Company (Dow) and E.I. Du Pont de Nemours and 
Company (DuPont) propose to merge (the proposed merger). Both Dow and 
DuPont produce agricultural products such as crop protection chemicals and 
seeds, and a range of non-agricultural materials. Following the proposed merger 
Dow and DuPont plan to convert the merged entity into three separate 
companies focusing on agriculture, materials science and speciality products 
respectively. 
2. 
This Statement of Issues: 
• 
gives the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission’s (ACCC’s) 
preliminary views on competition issues arising from the proposed merger 
• 
identifies areas of further inquiry 
• 
invites interested parties to submit comments and information to assist our 
assessment of the issues. 
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views 
3. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed merger is in 
section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits 
mergers or acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, 
of substantially lessening competition in any market. 
4. 
The ACCC divides its preliminary views into three categories, 'issues of concern', 
'issues that may raise concerns' and ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’. For this 
matter there are four ‘issues that may raise concerns’. 
Issues that may raise concerns 
• 
Innovation in crop protection: the proposed merger may lead to a 
substantial lessening of competition in upstream markets for the 
development of new technology for crop protection products. Both Dow 


Proposed merger of Dow and DuPont 
 
Page 2 of 25 
and DuPont are leading innovators in crop protection products and the 
removal of competition between them may lead to less innovation across a 
broad spectrum of products. In the longer term, this could lead to a 
reduction in the rate at which new products come to the market. It could 
also reduce quality and/or increase prices for crop protection products. 
• 
Chewing and sucking pest insecticides: the proposed merger may lead 
to a substantial lessening of competition in certain markets for the supply 
of insecticides, particularly in relation to certain chewing and sucking pests. 
Dow and DuPont produce certain products which compete closely, based 
on active ingredients including, but not limited to, Rynaxypyr and Cyazypyr 
(DuPont) and Sulfoxaflor and chemicals in the Spinosyns class (Dow). The 
removal of this competition may lead to higher prices for these patented 
insecticides.  
• 
Canola seeds: the proposed merger may lead to a substantial lessening of 
competition for the development of new varieties of canola seeds for the 
Australian market. Dow and DuPont are both important global suppliers 
involved in seed research and development. A removal of competition 
between them may result in a slower pace of development of canola 
seeds. 
• 
Materials science: the proposed merger may lead to a substantial 
lessening of competition in markets for the supply of ionomers, acid co-
polymers, and potentially other materials science products. Outside of Dow 
and DuPont it appears that there are few competitors currently supplying or 
offering to supply ionomers and acid co-polymers in Australia. 
Making a submission 
5. 
The ACCC is seeking submissions from interested parties, particularly on the 
following key issues: 
• 
whether, by reducing the number of firms investing in research and 
development, the merger would lessen the pace of innovation to bring new 
crop protection products to the Australian market 
• 
whether Dow’s and DuPont’s insecticide products are close substitutes to 
each other, and whether other competitors have products that could be 
suitable substitutes if the merged entity raised the prices of its insecticides 
• 
whether, if the proposed merger did not proceed, there would be greater 
competition to develop new seed varieties, and improvements in the rate at 
which new varieties are brought to the Australian market 
• 
the impact of the proposed merger on the supply of materials science 
products in Australia, particularly the supply of ionomers. 
6. 
Detailed discussion of these and other issues, along with specific questions, is 
contained in this Statement of Issues.  
7. 
Interested parties should provide submissions by no later than 5pm on 
24 November 2016. Responses may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with 
the title: Submission re: Dow and DuPont - attention Jason Byrne and Andrew 


Proposed merger of Dow and DuPont 
 
Page 3 of 25 
Gallagher. If you would like to discuss the matter with ACCC officers over the 
telephone or in person, or have any questions about this Statement of Issues, 
please contact Jason Byrne on (02) 6243 1279 or Andrew Gallagher on 
(02) 9230 9129.  
8. 
The ACCC anticipates making a final decision on 2 February 2017, however, this 
timeline can change. To keep abreast of possible changes in relation to timing 
and to find relevant documents, interested parties should visit the Mergers 
Register on the ACCC's website at www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
Confidentiality of submissions 
9. 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed merger. We will 
not disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) unless 
compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or 
during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition 
and Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where possible so that you may 
have an opportunity to be heard. Therefore, if the information provided to the 
ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’ 
10. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed merger or acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, 
drawing attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, 
as well as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to 
undertake. 
11. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 
Timeline 
Date 
Event 
18 July 2016 
ACCC commenced review of the proposed merger 
5 August 2016 
Closing date for submissions from interested parties 
25 August 2016 
Former proposed decision date of 15 September 
2016 delayed to allow provision of requested 
information 
19 September 2016 
ACCC timeline recommenced  
25 October 2016 
Former proposed decision date of 27 October 2016 
delayed at the request of the merger parties so that 


Proposed merger of Dow and DuPont 
 
Page 4 of 25 
Date 
Event 
they can provide further information to the ACCC 
3 November 2016 
ACCC publication of Statement of Issues 
24 November 2016 
Deadline for submissions from interested parties in 
response to this Statement of Issues 
2 February 2017 
Anticipated date for ACCC final decision  
 
The parties 
12. 
Dow is a global diversified chemicals company which supplies plastics, chemical 
products, agricultural sciences products and hydrocarbon and energy products. 
Currently its operations are split across five segments including agricultural 
sciences, performance materials and chemicals, and performance plastics. In 
2015 Dow generated approximately US$49 billion (A$66 billion) in global sales 
revenue. Dow's Australian revenue was approximately A$515 million in 2013/14. 
13. 
DuPont is a global science and technology company which supplies a variety of 
chemical products, electronics, polymers, agro-chemicals, seeds, food 
ingredients and other materials. Currently its operations are split across six 
segments including agriculture, electronics and communications, industrial 
biosciences, and performance materials. In 2015 DuPont generated 
approximately US$25 billion (A$33 billion) billion in global sales revenue. 
DuPont's Australian revenue was approximately A$390 million in 2013/14. 
The proposed transaction 
14. 
Following the proposed merger the parties plan to convert the merged entity into 
three separate companies focussing on agriculture, materials science and 
specialty products respectively.  
15. 
The agriculture company will focus on the production of seeds and crop 
protection chemicals, including herbicides, insecticides and fungicides. Globally 
the combined revenue for the merger parties in agriculture was approximately 
US$16 billion (A$21 billion) in 2015. 
16. 
The materials science company will focus on performance plastics, various 
performance materials (including polyurethanes and co-polymers), materials for 
automotive manufacture and maintenance, various coating materials and 
materials for consumer and pharmaceutical products. Globally the combined 
revenue for the merger parties in materials science was approximately 
US$46 billion (A$62 billion) in 2015. 
17. 
The specialty products company will focus on electronic materials (including 
semi-conductors, display technologies and materials for the production of 
circuits), protective materials, food solutions and ingredients, and industrial 
bioscience. Globally the combined revenue for the merger parties in specialty 
products was approximately US$12 billion (A$16 billion) in 2015. 


Proposed merger of Dow and DuPont 
 
Page 5 of 25 
18. 
In addition to the ACCC review, the proposed merger is also being reviewed by 
competition regulators in many other jurisdictions including the European Union, 
the United States and Canada. 
Industry background 
Crop protection 
19. 
Crop protection products are chemicals that play a role in controlling the 
diseases, insects and weeds that harm or destroy food crops. Broadly, crop 
protection products can be categorised as herbicides, insecticides, fungicides 
and other products. Herbicides are used to prevent or reduce the growth of 
weeds. Insecticides are used to control insects that damage plants. Fungicides 
are used to control plant diseases caused by fungi. Other products include 
molluscicides, which target snails and other molluscs, plant growth regulators 
and seed care products. 
20. 
Crop protection products are characterised by: 
• 
One or more active ingredients: these are the chemical compounds 
which are designed to treat a targeted pest (fungi, insects or weeds). Each 
active ingredient belongs to a chemical class.  
• 
A mode of action: this is the way that a specific cellular process in a pest 
is inhibited by the active ingredient.  
• 
A formulation, which is the formula containing the active ingredient, or 
mixtures of more than one active ingredient. 
21. 
Formulated crop protection products can come in various forms, including liquids 
for spraying, or soil fumigants. 
22. 
Effective resistance management is an important consideration when selecting 
crop protection products. Active ingredients are classified into groups according 
to their mode of action. Resistance management strategies include avoiding 
repeated use of chemicals from the same mode of action group.  
23. 
CropLife International is a body which (among other things) classifies crop 
protection chemicals into groups according to their mode of action. For 
insecticides, CropLife International maintains classifications through its 
Insecticide Resistance Action Committee (IRAC). This statement refers to 
IRAC’s mode of action groups when discussing particular crop protection 
chemicals. 
24. 
Developing new active ingredients for crop protection products is expensive and 
time consuming. This involves a process of researching, testing and screening 
potential compounds, developing a selected compound into an economically 
viable product and obtaining necessary regulatory approvals. It can cost 
hundreds of millions of dollars and take a decade or more to develop a new 
active ingredient and bring it to market. In Australia, crop protection active 
ingredients and chemicals must be approved and registered with the Australian 
Pesticides and Veterinary Medicines Authority (APVMA) before they can be 
used.  


Proposed merger of Dow and DuPont 
 
Page 6 of 25 
25. 
Crop protection products are produced by both “originator” and “generic” 
companies. Dow and DuPont are both originator companies. Originator 
companies invest in research and development to develop new active 
ingredients, for which they can then obtain a patent. Generic producers do not 
typically conduct research into new active ingredients but produce formulated 
products based on off-patent active ingredients.  
26. 
The following table provides a summary of the major originator companies which 
supply crop protection products in Australia, other than Dow and DuPont. For 
reference, in 2015 Dow generated approximately US$6 billion (A$8 billion) in 
global agricultural sciences sales revenue. In 2015 DuPont generated 
approximately US$10 billion (A$13 billion) in global agriculture sales revenue.  
Table 1: Originator suppliers of crop protection products in Australia other 
than Dow and DuPont  
Name 
Description 
Syngenta 
Syngenta manufactures and distributes crop protection products 
and seeds globally. Syngenta focusses on crop protection products 
for cereals, corn, field crops, rice, soybean, speciality crops, sugar 
cane and vegetables. Syngenta is headquartered in Basel, 
Switzerland. In 2015 it generated approximately US$10 billion 
(A$13 billion) in global crop protection sales revenue.  
ChemChina, which owns the majority of Adama (a supplier of 
generic crop protection products), has announced a proposal to 
acquire Syngenta, subject to regulatory approvals. The ACCC is 
reviewing this transaction. 
Bayer  
Bayer operates globally across sectors such as crop science and 
healthcare. In Australia, Bayer Crop Science supplies a range of 
crop protection products and seeds. Bayer is headquartered in 
Leverkusen, Germany. In 2015 it generated approximately €8 
billion (A$12 billion) in global crop protection sales revenue. 
Bayer has announced a proposal to purchase Monsanto, subject to 
regulatory approvals. The ACCC will commence a public review of 
the transaction when a submission is received.  
BASF  
The BASF Group operates globally across sectors such as 
chemicals, plastics and crop protection. BASF Australia supplies a 
range of crop protection products and seed treatments. BASF is 
headquartered in Ludwigshafen, Germany. In 2015 it generated 
approximately €6 billion (A$9 billion) in global agricultural solutions 
sales revenue.  
Monsanto 
Monsanto is a global supplier of agricultural products including 
crop protection products and seeds. In Australia Monsanto 
supplies products to the cotton, grains and horticultural industries 
including Roundup branded herbicide products. Monsanto is 
headquartered in St Louis, USA. In 2015 it generated 
approximately US$15 billion (A$20 billion) in global sales revenue, 
including US$5 billion (A$6 billion) from crop protection products. 
As noted above, Bayer proposes to acquire Monsanto.  


Proposed merger of Dow and DuPont 
 
Page 7 of 25 
Sumitomo 
Chemicals
Sumitomo supplies a range of products including petrochemicals, 
materials, health and crop science and pharmaceutical products 
globally. In Australia Sumitomo supplies crop protection and 
various pest control products. Sumitomo is headquartered in Tokyo 
and Osaka, Japan. In 2015 it generated approximately ¥345 billion 
(A$4 billion) in global health and crop sciences revenue. 
 
27. 
The following table provides a summary of the major generic companies which 
supply crop protection products in Australia. 
Table 2: Generic suppliers of crop protection products in Australia  
Name 
Description 
Adama 
Adama manufactures and distributes mostly generic agrochemical 
crop protection products, including in Australia. Adama is 
headquartered in Tel Aviv, Israel and is 60 per cent owned by 
ChemChina. In 2015 it generated approximately US$3 billion (A$4 
billion) in global sales revenue.  
As noted above, ChemChina proposes to acquire Syngenta 
subject to regulatory approvals. Separately, ChemChina also 
proposes to acquire the 40 per cent of Adama that it does not 
already own. 
FMC 
FMC is a global chemical company which supplies products 
ranging from generic agriculture products to health and nutrition 
products. In Australia FMC supplies a range of crop protection 
products. FMC is headquartered in Philadelphia, USA. In 2015 it 
generated approximately US$2 billion (A$3 billion) in global 
agriculture sales revenue.  
Nufarm 
Nufarm is an Australian-based agricultural chemicals company 
which sells generic crop protection products globally. In Australia 
Nufarm has an extensive network of regional service centres. In 
2015 it generated approximately A$3 billion in global sales 
revenue, of which approximately 22 per cent is from sales in 
Australia and New Zealand. Nufarm also owns Nuseed, a global 
seed business. 
Sipcam 
Oxon 
Sipcam Oxon describes itself as a global leader in the manufacture 
of generic farm chemistry. Sipcam is a privately owned company 
headquartered in Milan, Italy. Sipcam supplies a number of crop 
protection products in Australia. In Australia Sipcam operates in 
cooperation with minority shareholders Sumitomo and Nihon 
Nohyaku (which also produce crop protection products). 
UPL 
UPL is a global generic agrochemical company. In Australia it 
supplies a range of crop protection products. In addition to 
fungicides, insecticides and herbicides, UPL also supplies 
fumigants and termiticides. UPL is headquartered in Mumbai, 
India.  


Proposed merger of Dow and DuPont 
 
Page 8 of 25 
28. 
The types and mix of crop protection products used in Australia may differ 
compared to other countries. This is driven by the particular characteristics of 
Australian agriculture. For example, Australia is a major producer of wheat 
whereas the top three crops by volume worldwide are sugar cane, maize and 
rice. Other major crops produced overseas such as soybeans are produced in 
relatively small quantities in Australia. Australian agricultural businesses also 
spend much greater amounts on herbicides than insecticides and fungicides. 
Distribution of crop protection products 
29. 
Originator and generic suppliers do not generally supply crop protection products 
directly to farmers. Instead they each rely on retailers or other intermediaries to 
distribute their products. Major distributors of agricultural chemicals in Australia 
include Landmark, Ruralco, Elders and AgLink. Each of these has a number of 
retail shopfronts throughout Australia. Several smaller retailers also exist, with 
some having a retail presence in one or a few towns.  
30. 
The ACCC understands that some distributors retail agricultural chemicals under 
agency agreements with suppliers, including Dow and DuPont. One of the issues 
the ACCC is considering is whether the merged entity would be able to restrict 
competitors’ access to the retail distributers/intermediaries. Further discussion 
on this issue is at paragraphs 90 to 91 below. 
Seeds 
Seed development 
31. 
The development, or breeding, of new seed varieties is a process where 
breeders develop plant varieties that are adapted to perform strongly in specific 
growing conditions. Once developed, the plant varieties are produced on a 
commercial scale. Seed breeding is an area that is changing as a result of new 
technologies enabling faster development of new traits and varieties. The public 
sector has previously had a strong role in some of these areas but its role is now 
much more limited. 
32. 
Breeders begin the process by undertaking research programs designed to 
enhance the natural characteristics of plants according to the local soil type, 
climate and locally prevalent diseases. This is a lengthy process, which can take 
a decade or more, and requires breeding and trialling across many generations 
of the plant. 
33. 
Once successful seeds have been developed, production begins in commercial 
quantities. The seed is then purified, sorted, treated with seed treatment 
products, and packed for distribution. The commercialisation of new seed 
varieties may be undertaken by the breeder itself, or it may license the variety to 
a third party. 
Canola seed supply in Australia 
34. 
Canola seeds is an area of focus for the ACCC’s review. In Australia, companies 
undertaking canola seed development and production include Dow (which 
recently announced that it was involved in the development of new canola 
varieties), DuPont (which recently sold the production side of its business, but 
retains its seed research and development functions), Nuseed (a subsidiary of 


Proposed merger of Dow and DuPont 
 
Page 9 of 25 
Nufarm), Pacific Seeds (owned by Advanta Seeds), Bayer Crop Science and 
Cargill. 
35. 
The canola varieties offered by these suppliers generally have one of several 
common herbicide resistant traits. Triazine tolerant and imidazolinone tolerant 
traits are common traits which were developed using conventional methods (i.e. 
without genetic modification). Since the mid-2000s usage of genetically modified 
germplasm has also become common. These include Monsanto’s Roundup 
Ready (tolerant to glyphosate) which is licensed to several seed suppliers for 
use in their seed varieties, and Bayer’s InVigor (tolerant to glufosinate 
ammonium). The ACCC understands that genetically modified varieties now 
account for around 25 per cent of Australian canola crop. 
Materials science 
36. 
Materials science products include a broad range of products, materials and 
chemicals that are derived from petrochemical products.  
37. 
Dow produces a variety of materials science products including:  
• 
performance plastics (including hydrocarbons and specialty plastics and 
packaging materials, e.g., polyethylenes, adhesives, elastomers) 
• 
performance chemicals 
• 
materials for automotive systems and maintenance 
• 
infrastructure materials (including coating materials, electrical and 
telecommunications solutions, and elastomers)  
• 
materials for consumer products and devices.  
38. 
DuPont produces performance materials which includes plastic science solutions 
and certain specialty co-polymers.  
39. 
Other major producers of materials science products include ExxonMobil and 
Ineos. 
Issue that may raise concerns: innovation in new 
chemicals for crop protection  
40. 
Based upon its inquiries to date, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the 
proposed merger may substantially lessen competition in global markets for the 
development of new chemicals for crop protection products.  
41. 
As discussed above, the merger parties are two of a small number of originator 
companies involved in the development of new chemical compounds that can be 
patented and used in crop protection products. The other major originators are 
Bayer, Syngenta and BASF. Monsanto and Sumitomo also develop new crop 
protection chemicals, but on a smaller scale (Monsanto has a greater focus on 
seeds). 
42. 
There are other smaller companies which also engage in research and 
development activities. These include companies based in Japan such as Nihon 


Proposed merger of Dow and DuPont 
 
Page 10 of 25 
Nohyaku, Ishihara Sangyo Kaisha (ISK) and Mitsui Chemicals. However these 
companies do not necessarily engage in development and registration of new 
products outside of Japan. In many cases, they develop products in co-operation 
with the originators listed in Table 1 above. It appears that most of these 
companies are not currently supplying crop protection products in large volumes 
in Australia. The ACCC is continuing to investigate the potential constraint posed 
by these companies.  
43. 
Innovation by originator companies helps end users of crop protection 
chemicals. Innovation produces new products with benefits over existing 
products, such as better effectiveness against pests, especially if pests have 
developed resistance to chemicals already in use. New products may have other 
improvements such as a reduced environmental impact, lower residual traces of 
the products on the crops, and easier or less frequent applications. 
44. 
Originator companies engage in innovation to win access to new revenue 
streams, protected by patents, at the expense of the existing products of their 
competitors. The more competitors are engaged in such innovation, the more 
each will need to develop better innovations to capture revenue streams from 
their rivals. 
45. 
With fewer originators, there may be a weaker incentive to innovate. For an 
originator with few competitors it is more likely that its innovation will cannibalise 
sales of its own patented products. There will also be less chance that a rival will 
develop a competing product ahead of the originator’s own product. In contrast, 
for an originator with many competitors, a new product is more likely to win sales 
from its rivals rather than cannibalising its own sales. Therefore a potential effect 
of a merger between two originators (such as Dow and DuPont) is to reduce the 
rate of innovation by lessening competition between originator companies. 
46. 
Barriers to entry into innovation markets are high. As mentioned above, 
developing and marketing a new active ingredient can cost hundreds of millions 
of dollars and take a decade or more. 
47. 
Most research and development activity related to crop protection products 
occurs outside Australia. However, a reduction in innovation would affect the 
Australian crop protection market by lessening the rate at which new products 
come to the Australian market and benefit Australian growers. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on these issues. Please 
respond to the following questions. 
• 
To what extent do you consider Dow and DuPont compete against each other to 
develop innovative crop protection products? Are they closer competitors to each 
other than other originator companies? 
• 
Are there any specific areas of crop protection products in which Dow and DuPont 
are particularly innovative? 
• 
If Dow and DuPont merged, do you expect the rate at which new crop protection 
chemicals were developed would change? How? 
• 
Do you consider the proposed merger raises any Australia-specific issues relevant 
to innovation in crop protection products? 


Proposed merger of Dow and DuPont 
 
Page 11 of 25 
Issue that may raise concerns: insecticides to treat 
chewing and sucking pests 
48. 
In addition to a loss of innovation in crop protection products generally, the 
proposed merger has the potential to affect competition between pesticides that 
are already on the market. The loss of competition arising from the proposed 
merger may provide the merged entity with the ability to profitably increase 
prices in relevant pesticide markets.  
49. 
Having reviewed the product portfolios of the merger parties, and conducted 
market inquiries, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that there is potential for 
competitive harm in relation to certain patented insecticides in which Dow and 
DuPont overlap. The ACCC has not yet reached a concluded view on defining 
the relevant markets in which these products compete. However, it is unlikely 
that the relevant market is as broad as all insecticides. Rather, relevant markets 
will cover the parties’ product, if they are close substitutes for each other, and 
other insecticides which are also close substitutes. The degree of substitution 
between products depends on the use to which they are put, as discussed 
further below. 
Sales of insecticides in Australia 
50. 
Dow and DuPont have both submitted that they have less than 10 percent of 
total Australian insecticide sales by volume. By value, Dow has estimated its 
sales at 10 to 20 per cent and DuPont at still less than 10 per cent.  
51. 
The ACCC considers that these shares are likely to significantly understate the 
competitive tension between Dow and DuPont for a number of reasons: 
• 
Dow and DuPont are originators with a particular focus on products with 
active ingredients protected by patents, whereas some other suppliers are 
more focused on generic insecticides. The figures above are diluted by the 
inclusion of generic insecticides. 
• 
The relevant product markets are likely to be much narrower than a broad 
market which includes all insecticides. The degree of competition will be 
stronger between competitors that have close substitute products.  
• 
The merger parties are likely to have significantly higher shares in certain 
more narrowly defined markets relevant to their overlapping products. The 
ACCC has not reached a concluded view on market definition, but the 
potential for close competition between Dow’s and DuPont’s insecticides is 
discussed below. 
Substitution between different products/categories of product 
52. 
The ACCC’s analysis of substitution between insecticides has sought to identify 
how the products are used by farmers. This includes several factors, such as: 
• 
the pest targeted 
• 
the crop for which protection is sought 
• 
the stage of the life cycle of the pest at which protection is required  


Proposed merger of Dow and DuPont 
 
Page 12 of 25 
• 
the stage in the growing season at which protection is required 
• 
the growing conditions in which the insecticide will be applied (soils, 
climate etc.) 
• 
the application method of the insecticide to the crop (e.g. as a foliar spray, 
soil or seed treatment) 
• 
the effect of the insecticide on beneficial insects (such as bees) 
• 
consideration of environmental impact, health and safety and residues 
remaining on the crop after treatment. 
53. 
Resistance management and treatment rotation cycles are also relevant. This 
includes avoiding repeated use of chemicals from the same mode of action 
group.  
Generic and on-patent insecticides 
54. 
Price is a key consideration for farmers choosing insecticides. However, 
innovative products protected by patents generally command a price premium 
over more established generic products, indicating farmers will pay more if 
justified by the effectiveness or other characteristics of the product.  
55. 
Market inquiries suggest farmers value modern, patented insecticides because 
of the benefits they provide. Farmers who need a patented insecticide may not 
necessarily switch to inferior chemicals if faced with a 5-10 per cent increase in 
price.  
56. 
The significant price premium on modern chemicals indicates that cheaper 
generic products based on off-patent chemicals are often not likely to be an 
effective substitute. There can, however, be some substitutability between some 
generic and on-patent insecticides if each performs a similar function. Each 
needs to be considered on a case-by-case-basis. 
57. 
Where more than one patented insecticide can be used to treat the same pest in 
crops with similar efficacy, they are likely to be closer substitutes. The ACCC is 
examining closely the potential overlap between Dow and DuPont’s on-patent 
products in order to better understand the degree of closeness of competition 
between them. 
58. 
On the supply side, the ACCC is considering the ability of suppliers to switch 
production to different crop protection products. If other suppliers are able to 
easily switch their production to supply products that compete with Dow and/or 
DuPont products, then this may act as a constraint on the actions of the merged 
entity. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the ease of switching varies and 
needs to be assessed on a case by case basis. 
59. 
For example, where the active ingredient of a particular product is patented, and 
that active ingredient has a distinct purpose or application, then the scope for 
supply side substitution is low. A supplier would have to research and develop its 
own new active ingredient, which is a long and expensive process. 


Proposed merger of Dow and DuPont 
 
Page 13 of 25 
60. 
However, if the active ingredient is off-patent, or there are other active 
ingredients that are off-patent which could be used for a comparable product, 
then it may be possible for other suppliers to readily switch their production in 
order to bring a new generic product to market. This is particularly the case if the 
supplier already uses the necessary active ingredient or ingredients in its 
portfolio of products. 
61. 
Nevertheless, switching production to bring a new generic product to market may 
still require significant investment and time, particularly if the new supplier does 
not already have access to the necessary off-patent active ingredient/s. There 
could be a significant lag in obtaining the active ingredients, developing 
formulas, and getting regulatory approval. Therefore, even where a supplier is 
well placed to switch its production, it may not be able to respond quickly to take 
advantage of an increase in price by the merged entity. This limits the 
competitive constraint that a supplier switching production, or the threat of it 
switching, would place on the merged entity. 
Characterisation of insects 
62. 
Based on different feeding behaviours, insects can be categorised as chewing 
insects, sucking insects, or both. Chewing insects tear apart and digest plant 
components. They also damage plants by excreting solid waste. Chewing 
insects include moths, caterpillars, grasshoppers and beetles. 
63. 
Sucking insects feed on sap and liquid plant components. They excrete liquid 
with high sugar content (honeydew). They damage plants by transmitting 
disease and their honeydew facilitates fungus infections. Sucking insects include 
aphids, whiteflies, leafhoppers and scale insects. 
64. 
The third category falls in between chewing and sucking pests. Thrips (or 
rasping pests) feed by piercing/scraping plants and sucking up components, 
which causes damage to the plant. The ACCC has not received any submissions 
that raise particular concerns in relation to thrips or other rasping pests, although 
some of the products discussed below can be used on thrips. Accordingly, the 
following discussion focuses on chewing and sucking pests. 
65. 
Many insecticides will treat either sucking or chewing pests (but not both). Some 
insecticides with a broader spectrum can treat both sucking and chewing pests. 
However, no single insecticide is suitable for all insects and crops. Further, in 
some cases farmers may value narrow spectrum products over broad spectrum 
if: 
• 
the narrow spectrum products are more effective or targeted on particular 
insects/crops 
• 
the farmer does not need to treat a broad spectrum of pests, and is 
concerned about the potential for unnecessary treatment to contribute to 
resistance 
• 
or for other reasons among those listed above. 
66. 
At this stage, the ACCC does not consider chewing pest insecticides and 
sucking pest insecticides to be in the same market, although there will be some 
overlapping products between them. The ACCC is further considering whether 


Proposed merger of Dow and DuPont 
 
Page 14 of 25 
there are particular markets based on groups of insecticides to treat particular 
types of pests and host plants, especially where Dow and DuPont have 
competing products based on patented active ingredients. 
Substitution within and between chemical groups 
67. 
Insecticides that have the same active ingredient (or the same mix of active 
ingredients) are relatively likely to be close substitutes for each other as they 
have the same chemistry. However, it is important to note that: 
• 
even products with the same active ingredient can have characteristics 
which make them more or less substitutable for each other in certain 
conditions 
• 
in some situations insects can be controlled by insecticides with different 
active ingredients, which have different modes of action. 
68. 
In summary, the degree of substitution between products, or the closeness of 
competition between products, varies significantly depending on the specific use 
proposed. In the next phase of the ACCC’s review, we intend to examine further 
the closeness of competition between DuPont and Dow’s products, and the 
extent of substitutability of rival products, based on their specific uses. 
Chewing pest insecticides 
Key overlaps between Dow and DuPont, and the closest substitutes from competitors 
69. 
In relation to chewing pests, the main area of overlap that has been raised as a 
potential area of competition concern during market inquiries, is between 
Rynaxypyr and Cyazypyr from DuPont, and Dow’s products from the Spinosyns 
chemical class. Concerns have also been raised in relation to DuPont’s off-
patent products containing Indoxacarb. The following table gives details of these 
products. It also includes competitors’ products with the same mode of action as 
the relevant Dow and DuPont products. Market inquires suggest these are likely 
to be the closest substitutes supplied by competitors. 
Table 3: Chewing pest insecticide products of focus  
Supplier 
Product 
Active ingredient 
Chemical class 
and mode of 
action group 
Patent 
protection 
(Australia) 
DuPont 
Altacor, 
Coragen  
Chlorantraniliprole 
(also known as 
Rynaxypyr) 
Anthranilic 
diamide (28) 
Expires 2021 


Proposed merger of Dow and DuPont 
 
Page 15 of 25 
Supplier 
Product 
Active ingredient 
Chemical class 
and mode of 
action group 
Patent 
protection 
(Australia) 
DuPont 
Benevia, 
Exirel  
Cyantraniliprole 
(also known as 
Cyazypyr) 
Diamides (28) 
Expires 2022 
Dow 
Delegate, 
Success 
Neo 
Spinetoram 
Spinosyns (5) 
Expires 
2016/20271 
DuPont 
Avatar, 
Steward 
Indoxacarb 
Spinosyns (5) 
Off patent 
Bayer 
Belt 
Flubendiamide 
Diamides (28) 
On patent 
Bayer 
Lineout 
(cotton 
only) 
Flubendiamide, 
Thiacloprid 
Diamides (28), 
Neonicotinoids 
(4A) 
On patent 
Syngenta
Voliam 
Flexi, 
Durivo 
Chlorantraniliprole 
(Rynaxypyr) mixed 
with Thiamethoxam 
Diamides (28), 
Neonicotinoids 
(4A) 
Expires 20212 
ISK 
n/a 
Cyclaniliprole 
Diamides (28) 
Pipeline product 
 
70. 
Each of these products is suitable for use on a range of insects and crops, 
although their coverage does not overlap precisely. The products compete with 
each other to varying degrees in different contexts, depending on the relevant 
crop and pest. In each relevant market, only a subset of the products above may 
be relevant options. For example, Lineout (Bayer’s mix of Flubendiamide and 
Thiacloprid) is only registered for use on cotton crops.  
71. 
DuPont’s Altacor and Coragen products, based on the active ingredient 
Rynaxypyr, are registered for use on chewing insects on fruits, vegetables, 
grapes, potatoes, soy beans, rice, maize and cotton. The Avatar and Steward 
DuPont products (Indoxacarb) are registered for use on chewing and selected 
sucking insects on vegetables, alfalfa, chickpeas, cotton, fava beans, 
mungbeans and soybeans. 
72. 
DuPont’s Benevia and Exirel, based on the active ingredient Cyazypyr, have a 
broader spectrum of control than Altacor and Coragen (Rynaxypyr) because they 
are effective against various chewing and also sucking insects. Cyazypyr is the 
most recent insecticide addition to DuPont’s portfolio and has not yet been fully 
commercialised in Australia for general use. To date, registration has been 
                                               
 
1 Composition of matter patent expires in 2016 and method of manufacture patents expire in 
2027. 
2 The patent for Chlorantraniliprole expires in 2021, but Thiamethoxam is off patent. 


Proposed merger of Dow and DuPont 
 
Page 16 of 25 
granted for use on cotton (in November 2013), fruiting vegetables and cucurbit 
crops (in April 2015). 
73. 
Dow’s Delegate and Success Neo products are registered for use on chewing 
insects and rasping insects including thrips on various fruit crops. These 
products, based on the active ingredient Spinetoram, have largely replaced 
Dow’s older chemistry Spinosad (product Naturalure), from the same chemical 
class. 
74. 
Bayer’s Belt, based on the active ingredient Flubendiamide, is registered for use 
on chewing insects on vegetables, potatoes, tomatoes, chia, herbs and 
strawberries. Bayer’s Lineout, based on the active ingredients Flubendiamide 
and Thiacloprid, is registered for use on chewing and sucking insects on cotton. 
75. 
Syngenta’s Voliam Flexi, based on a mixture of the active ingredients Rynaxypyr 
and Thiamethoxam, is registered for use on chewing and sucking insects on 
cotton. Syngenta’s Durivo, also based on the active ingredients Rynaxypyr and 
Thiamethoxam, is registered for use on chewing and sucking insects on leafy 
and fruiting vegetables. 
76. 
The ACCC has not formed a final view on defining the relevant markets and 
market shares. However, market inquiries suggest Dow and DuPont will have a 
very strong position in relation to Cyazypyr, Rynaxypyr and Spinetoram. The 
ACCC has estimated that Dow and DuPont would account for a large majority of 
sales of all products listed in Table 3 above. Other potential substitute products 
sold by competitors are discussed below. 
Other potential substitutes (for some uses) 
77. 
Depending on the crop and pest in a particular situation, some of the following 
products may also be relevant substitutes. They do not have the same mode of 
action as the Dow and DuPont products in Table 3 above. They are therefore 
less likely to be close substitutes for as many uses. The list below shows the 
active ingredient, with the product name, supplier and IRAC mode of action 
group in brackets: 
• 
Fenoxycarb (Insegar, Syngenta, 7B) 
• 
Thiacloprid (Calypso, Bayer, 4A)  
• 
Emamectin Benzoate (Affirm/Proclaim, Syngenta, 6)  
• 
Thiodicarb (Larvin, Bayer, 1B) 
• 
Fipronil (Regent, BASF, 2B)  
• 
Bacillus thuringiensis (multiple suppliers, 11) 
• 
Synthetic pyrethroids (multiple suppliers, 3A) 
78. 
Several other suppliers of chewing pest insecticides are present in Australia. 
These include Nufarm, Sumitomo Chemical, Sipcam-Oxon, FMC and Adama. 
However, most of these are more focused on generic off-patent insecticides. The 


Proposed merger of Dow and DuPont 
 
Page 17 of 25 
ability of generic suppliers to constrain the patented products of originators may 
be somewhat limited. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the closeness of competition 
between the products identified above, and the extent to which they are substitutes. 
Please respond to the following questions. 
• 
Are there any Dow products listed above for which, if the price increased by 5 or 
10 per cent, you would switch to a DuPont product? Which products? 
• 
Similarly, are there any DuPont products listed above for which, if the price 
increased by 5 or 10 per cent, you would switch to a Dow product? Which 
products? 
• 
Considering the products identified in your responses to the previous two 
questions, if the price of both the Dow and DuPont products increased by 5 or 
10 per cent, would you switch to another product? Which product(s) would you 
consider switching to? 
• 
For each of the Dow and DuPont chewing pest insecticides mentioned above, are 
there any features of these that you value and which are not available from generic 
or other insecticides? 
• 
Do you consider the proposed merger would have any impact on innovation for the 
development of pipeline chewing pest insecticides in Australia? 
 
Sucking pest insecticides 
Key overlaps between Dow and DuPont, and the closest substitutes from competitors 
79. 
The ACCC understands that DuPont’s Benevia and Exirel insecticides, and 
Dow’s Transform insecticide, have some overlapping registered uses for the 
control of certain sucking pests, such as aphids. Further details on these 
products and potential competing products are provided in the table below. 
Table 4: Sucking pest insecticide products of focus 
Supplier 
Product 
Active ingredient 
Chemical class 
and mode of 
action group 
Patent 
protection 
(Australia) 
Dow 
Transform 
Sulfoxaflor 
Sulfoximines 
(4C) 
Composition of 
matter patent 
expires 2027 
DuPont 
Benevia and 
Exirel  
Cyantraniliprole 
(also known as 
Cyazypyr) 
Diamides (28) 
Expires 2022 
Bayer 
Lineout (cotton 
only) 
Flubendiamide, 
Thiacloprid 
Diamides (28), 
Neonicotinoids 
(4A) 
On patent 


Proposed merger of Dow and DuPont 
 
Page 18 of 25 
Supplier 
Product 
Active ingredient 
Chemical class 
and mode of 
action group 
Patent 
protection 
(Australia) 
Syngenta 
Voliam Flexi, 
Durivo 
Chlorantraniliprole 
(Rynaxypyr) 
mixed with 
Thiamethoxam 
Diamides (28), 
Neonicotinoids 
(4A) 
Expires 20213 
 
80. 
As with chewing pests, each of these products is suitable for use on a range of 
insects and crops, but their coverage does not overlap precisely. Therefore they 
may compete with each other in numerous relevant markets, depending on the 
relevant crop and pest. In each relevant market, only a subset of the products 
above may be relevant options.  
81. 
Dow’s Transform insecticide, containing the active ingredient Sulfoxaflor, was 
only recently introduced in Australia. It received APVMA approval in 2013. It is 
registered for use against: 
• 
sucking insects such as aphids in canola, cereals, cotton soybeans, pome 
fruit and stone fruit 
• 
mirids and whitefly in cotton 
• 
mealybug in grapes. 
82. 
As noted above, DuPont’s Benevia and Exirel (based on Cyazypyr) are 
registered for use on sucking insects on fruits, vegetables and cotton, but have 
not yet been fully commercialised in Australia for general use. As Dow’s 
Sulfoxaflor and DuPont’s Cyazypyr are relatively new to the market and are in 
the process being fully commercialised, they are potential close substitutes for 
each other.  
83. 
The ACCC is considering whether Transform and Benevia/Exirel are close 
substitutes, and whether there are any products that can be used for the same 
use and provide the same or similar efficacy. Their active ingredients, Sulfoxaflor 
and Cyazypyr, belong to different mode of action groups (group 4C and group 28 
respectively) and have different chemical classes, but can both be used to treat 
sucking pests. 
84. 
As indicated earlier, new patented products can provide farmers with benefits 
that are not necessarily available from more dated products. For instance, the 
ACCC understands that Transform has been effective in treating green peach 
aphids where applications of other insecticides have been less effective in some 
cases (for example, by aphids surviving earlier applications of other 
insecticides). 
85. 
Bayer’s Lineout, based on a mixture of the active ingredients Flubendiamide and 
Thiacloprid, is registered for use on chewing and sucking insects on cotton. 
                                               
 
3 The patent for Chlorantraniliprole expires in 2021, but Thiamethoxam is off patent. 


Proposed merger of Dow and DuPont 
 
Page 19 of 25 
86. 
Syngenta’s Voliam Flexi, based on a mixture of the active ingredients Rynaxypyr 
and Thiamethoxam, is registered for use on chewing and sucking insects on 
cotton. Syngenta’s Durivo, also based on Rynaxypyr and Thiamethoxam, is 
registered for use on chewing and sucking insects on leafy and fruiting 
vegetables.  
87. 
As with chewing pests, the ACCC has not formed a final view on defining the 
relevant markets and market shares. However, market inquiries suggest Dow 
and DuPont will have a very strong position in relation to Sulfoxaflor and 
Cyazypyr. The ACCC has estimated that Dow and DuPont would account for a 
large majority of sales of all products listed in Table 4 above. Other potential 
substitute products sold by competitors are discussed below. 
Other potential substitutes (for some uses) 
88. 
Depending on the crop and pest in a particular situation, some of the following 
products may also be substitutes. They do not have the same mode of action as 
any of the Dow and DuPont products of focus in Table 4 above. They are 
therefore less likely to be close substitutes for some uses. The list below shows 
the active ingredient, with the product name, supplier and IRAC mode of action 
group in brackets: 
• 
Fenoxycarb (Insegar, Syngenta, 7B) 
• 
Thiacloprid (Calypso, Bayer, 4A) 
• 
Thiodicarb (Larvin, Bayer, 1B) 
• 
Fipronil (Regent, BASF, 2B)  
• 
Synthetic pyrethroids (multiple suppliers, 3A) 
• 
Spirotetramat (Movento, Bayer, 23) 
• 
Pyriproxyfen (Sumitomo, 7C) 
• 
Pymetrozine (Chess, Syngenta, 9B) 
• 
Thiamethoxam (Actara, Syngenta, 9B) 
89. 
Several other suppliers of sucking pest insecticides are present in Australia. 
These include Nufarm, Sumitomo Chemical, FMC and Adama. However, most of 
these are more focused on generic off-patent insecticides. The ability of generic 
suppliers to constrain the patented products of originators may be somewhat 
limited. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the closeness of competition 
between the products identified above, and the extent to which they are substitutes. 
Please respond to the following questions. 
• 
Do you consider Dow’s Transform and DuPont’s Benevia and Exirel to be close 
substitutes for the treatment of sucking pests on particular crops? 


Proposed merger of Dow and DuPont 
 
Page 20 of 25 
• 
If the price of Transform increased by 5 or 10 per cent, would you switch to 
Benevia or Exirel (and vice versa)? Why or why not? 
• 
Are there any particular advantages of Transform, Benevia and Exirel for farmers 
that are not available from other existing products (e.g. the ability to overcome pest 
resistance)? If so, do the other products listed in Table 4 provide any of the same 
advantages? 
• 
If the merged entity chose to raise the price of its sucking pest insecticides by 5 or 
10 per cent, would you switch your purchases to any other insecticide? If so, which 
one would you switch to? 
Other issues relating to crop protection – distribution 
90. 
Some concerns have been raised with the ACCC that the proposed merger may 
lead to a reduction in competition for the distribution of crop protection products. 
It has been suggested to the ACCC that agency agreements between 
distributors and chemical companies may affect competition by creating the 
potential for rival chemical companies to be excluded from retail markets. The 
proposed merger could exacerbate this issue by giving the merged entity a 
stronger upstream market position. 
91. 
A chemical company with a strong upstream market position could attempt to 
use various methods to limit its rivals’ access to downstream markets. These 
may include offering rebates, incentives or other terms to encourage distributors 
to stock the supplier’s full product range in preference to its rivals. The merged 
entity would have a significantly enhanced range of products than either Dow or 
DuPont individually, including on-patent products, which may enable it to 
implement such strategies more effectively. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the issue identified above. 
Please respond to the following questions. 
• 
Are there any difficulties for rivals of Dow and DuPont getting retailers and 
intermediaries to stock and market their products? 
• 
If the proposed merger were to proceed, would your response to the question 
above change at all? 
• 
Would the proposed merger provide the merged entity with the ability to impede 
rivals (or potential rivals) from supplying agricultural chemicals via retailers or 
intermediaries, including through agency or exclusive agreements with 
retailers/intermediaries?  
Issue that may raise concerns: seeds 
92. 
Based upon its inquiries to date, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the 
proposed merger may substantially lessen competition in relation to the 
development, production and supply of canola seed for the Australian market. 
93. 
The proposed merger would result in the horizontal aggregation of two important 
global companies involved in seed research and development. The ACCC is 
concerned that the proposed merger may result in a reduction in competitive 


Proposed merger of Dow and DuPont 
 
Page 21 of 25 
tension in research and development activity, leading to a slower pace of 
development of new canola seed varieties for Australia. 
94. 
The ACCC is considering the effect of the proposed merger on both: 
• 
a market for the development of canola seed varieties 
• 
a market (or markets) for the supply of canola seed. 
95. 
There is also potential for the merger of DuPont’s extensive seed business with 
Dow’s crop protection business to raise competition issues in the development 
and supply of seed more broadly. This is discussed at paragraph 106 below. 
Removal of a competitor in seed development 
96. 
Although Dow does not currently sell canola seed in Australia, it has recently 
announced that it is developing canola seed for the Australian market. The 
ACCC’s inquiries have indicated that Dow is a significant contributor to seed 
research and development globally and that it is likely to be a strong future 
competitor. In particular, market feedback has pointed to Dow’s strong position in 
canola seed in Canada, which it is able to leverage to develop Australian 
varieties. 
97. 
DuPont recently sold its seed supply business DuPont Pioneer Australia 
(Pioneer) to Philip Yates Family Holdings. However, DuPont retained Pioneer’s 
research and development functions. The ACCC’s inquiries suggest that DuPont 
remains one of the market leaders in the development of seed varieties 
(including canola) for supply to Australia. 
98. 
Therefore, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that, in the absence of the proposed 
merger, Dow and DuPont would compete to develop new canola seed varieties. 
Dow is in a position to produce and commercialise such varieties itself, whereas 
DuPont would license its varieties for production and supply by Pioneer.  
99. 
The ACCC recognises that there are several alternatives to Dow and DuPont 
which are active in the development of canola seed in Australia, including 
Nuseed, Pacific Seeds, Bayer and Cargill. However, market feedback to date 
has suggested that the market may nonetheless be substantially less 
competitive in future with the merger of Dow and DuPont. 
100. Further, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that there is a very low likelihood of new 
entry into canola seed development in Australia. The development of new seed 
varieties can take 7-10 years, and involves significant regulatory barriers. Seed 
developers require significant capital, experience and access to a library of 
genetic material. Dow is an example of a recent new entrant, but it already had a 
significant global seed development business, and a crop protection business in 
Australia. The ACCC’s inquiries to date have not identified any corporation in a 
similar position to Dow, or any other that may seek to enter the market for canola 
seed development in Australia in the future. 
101. In order to form a concluded view on the impact of the proposed merger on seed 
development and supply in Australia, the ACCC is considering further: 
• 
the extent to which different canola varieties prosper in different ‘seasonal’ 
areas. For example, whether some areas have more limited options in 


Proposed merger of Dow and DuPont 
 
Page 22 of 25 
terms of seed suppliers, and whether in these areas the loss of potential 
future competition as a result of the proposed merger may be felt more 
acutely 
• 
whether the proposed merger would impact the development and future 
availability of herbicide resistant trait technology 
• 
whether the merged entity could use its seed business to exclude its rivals 
from crop protection markets.  
Geographic variation 
102. The ACCC’s inquiries to date have suggested that the substitutability of different 
canola seed varieties depends on local geographical areas and their agronomic 
requirements. Market participants noted that different canola varieties prosper in 
different areas. Therefore, for particular major ‘seasonal’ areas (e.g. early, mid, 
late flowering or low, medium, high rainfall) the number of available substitutes 
may vary. 
103. The ACCC is continuing to explore whether there are any seasonal areas in 
which there are few suitable canola varieties or suppliers, and where the loss of 
potential future competition between Dow and DuPont may have a greater 
impact. The ACCC would welcome any further information that market 
participants can provide in this regard. 
New herbicide resistant traits 
104. The ACCC’s market inquiries have suggested that, at an international level, Dow 
is active in the development of new herbicide resistant traits, which it would be 
able to bring to the Australian market. Similarly, market feedback suggests that 
DuPont is well advanced with similar herbicide resistance technologies, including 
its Optimum GLY product. The ACCC is concerned that the proposed merger 
may result in fewer herbicide tolerant traits than would otherwise be available 
without the merger.  
105. The proposed merger could also affect the cross-licensing of intellectual property 
between seed developers. Seed developers benefit from having access to a 
wide range of genetic material from which to develop new varieties. They often 
license certain intellectual property to their rivals to improve each rival’s library of 
genetic material. Some market feedback has suggested that a merged Dow and 
DuPont may have less incentive to participate in such licensing, which could 
reduce the rate at which the market as a whole generates innovative seed 
varieties. 
Crop protection and seed development 
106. The ACCC’s market inquiries have also suggested that Dow’s strength in crop 
protection, combined with DuPont’s intellectual property and strong position in 
relation to seed development, could enable the merged entity to develop seed 
products that favour its own crop protection products. This could affect a broader 
range of markets than just canola seeds. For example, the merged entity could 
use DuPont’s seed business to develop varieties which are resistant to Dow’s 
pesticides, but cannot be used with generic crop protection products. This may in 
turn lessen competition in crop protection products. The ACCC is seeking more 
information in this regard. 


Proposed merger of Dow and DuPont 
 
Page 23 of 25 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the seed issues identified 
above. Please respond to the following questions. 
• 
Are there particular ‘seasonal’ areas (e.g. early, mid and late flowering or low, 
medium, and high rainfall areas) for which the number of suitable canola varieties 
is more limited than in other areas? Are there instances of seed suppliers 
marketing seeds for particular regions within Australia? 
• 
If so, is it likely that the merger of Dow and DuPont would impact the likelihood of 
more varieties being available in the future that are well suited to these areas? 
• 
Are there any general differences between the main canola tolerance traits (e.g. 
Roundup Ready, Imidazoline tolerance and Triazine tolerance) and the seasonal 
areas for which they are most suited? 
• 
Do you consider that the development of new herbicide resistant traits is important 
for canola production in the future, having regard to the need to avoid the natural 
development of herbicide resistance in weeds and any other factors? In particular, 
please comment on the importance of traits which are the result of genetic 
engineering. 
• 
Would the merger of Dow and DuPont, with their position in Australia in crop 
protection and seed development, put the merged entity in a position where it 
could develop new seed products (whether for canola or other plants) to reduce 
farmers’ ability to use generic crop protection products? If so, why would the 
merged entity have a greater ability than either Dow and/or DuPont would have as 
separate entities? What would be the impact on competition in the various markets 
for crop protection products? 
Issue that may raise concerns: materials science 
Areas of overlap 
107. Materials science products include performance plastics and materials/chemicals 
that are derived from petrochemical products. The key areas of overlap between 
Dow and DuPont are in the manufacture and supply of the following products:  
• 
Ionomers, which are used for manufacturing food packaging, cosmetics, 
medical devices, golf balls and other industrial applications. Dow 
manufactures ionomer products under the Amplify IO brand, and DuPont 
under the Surlyn brand.  
• 
Acid co-polymers, which are often used to bond metal together. For 
example, they can be used as a foil adhesive layer in juice packaging, as a 
heat sealant for tea bags and sauce sachets, and as an adhesive in other 
aluminium products. Dow manufactures acid co-polymer products under 
the Primacor brand, and DuPont under the Nucrel brand. 
• 
MAH grafted polymers, which are functional polymers that have been 
modified (by maleic anhydride grafting) to help bond together dissimilar 
polymers used in toughened, filled and blended compounds. Dow 
manufactures MAH grafted polymers products under the Amplify GR, 
Amplify TY and Retain brands. DuPont manufactures MAH grafted 
polymers under the Fusabond and Bynel brands. 


Proposed merger of Dow and DuPont 
 
Page 24 of 25 
108. Neither Dow, nor DuPont, manufactures these products in Australia.  
Market definition  
109. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the markets relevant for assessing the 
competition effects of the proposed merger are individual product markets for the 
supply of ionomers, acid co-polymers and MAH grafted polymers. 
110. From a customer perspective, different types of polymers and ionomer resins are 
not substitutable. From a manufacturing perspective, the equipment used to 
manufacture different types of polymers cannot be switched easily across to 
manufacture acid co-polymers and ionomers. In particular, information received 
by the ACCC suggests that specialised equipment and machinery with acid-
resistant coating would be needed to commence producing acid co-polymers.  
111. The production of ionomers is quite specialised as it requires neutralisation of 
acid co-polymers with other compounds. Because of this, other manufactures of 
materials science products are unlikely to be able to switch manufacturing in a 
timely manner in a way that would act as a significant constraint on a merged 
Dow/DuPont.  
Competition concerns  
112. Based on its inquiries to date, it appears there are few competitors currently 
supplying, or offering to supply, ionomers and acid co-polymers in Australia. 
Market feedback has been more mixed about the level of competition for the 
supply of MAH grafted polymers in Australia. 
113. Some customers indicated that Dow and DuPont are the only suppliers, or 
potential suppliers, of ionomer and acid co-polymer materials available to them. 
The complex end uses for these products means that, for many customers other 
ionomer resins or polymers are not substitutes. While some customers do not 
presently acquire materials science products from both Dow and DuPont (and 
the parties have submitted that their acid co-polymers are differentiated from 
each other), they consider the option to purchase from both companies provides 
important competitive tension. This competition would be lost with the proposed 
merger.  
114. The ACCC is concerned that the proposed merger involves a significant 
decrease in the number of supply options for ionomers and acid co-polymers for 
customers in Australia. The materials science activities of Dow and DuPont 
currently constrain each other because, at least for some products, the two 
companies compete for sales and customers and there appear to be few other 
supply options. The merger will remove the current constraining effect each 
company has on each other and potentially lead to price increases or reductions 
in quality. It does not appear likely that there will be new entry or expansion that 
would constrain the merged entity. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to 
ionomers, acid co-polymers and MAH grafted polymers. Please comment on the 
following: 
• 
The ability, timeliness and cost to manufacturers of other materials science 
products entering or expanding production of acid co-polymers, ionomers or MAH 
grafted polymers. 


Proposed merger of Dow and DuPont 
 
Page 25 of 25 
• 
The number of companies supplying, or who have the ability to supply, acid co-
polymers, ionomers and MAH grafted polymers in Australia. 
ACCC's future steps 
115. As noted above, the ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on 
each of the issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue 
that may be relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. Submissions are 
to be received by the ACCC no later than 24 November 2016 and should be 
emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au. 
116. The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
117. The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 2 February 2017. 
However the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose 
of explaining the ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's 
public announcement to explain its final view. 
