 
23 Marcus Clarke Street 
Canberra ACT 2601 
 
GPO Box 3131 
Canberra ACT 2601 
 
tel: (02) 6243 1368 
mergers@accc.gov.au 
 
www.accc.gov.au 
Our ref: 
IM-71303 
Contact officer: 
Karina Geddes / Janet Li 
Contact phone: 
 (02) 9102 4008 / (02) 9102 4024  
25 June 2021 
Dear Interested Party 
Re:  Request for submissions: JBS’ proposed acquisition of Rivalea 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
the proposed acquisition of Rivalea Holdings Pty Ltd and Oxdale Dairy Enterprise Pty Ltd 
(together, Rivalea) by JBS Australia Pty Limited (JBS) (the proposed acquisition). 
JBS and Rivalea are participants in the Australian pork industry.  
• 
JBS operates abattoirs, value-add facilities and feedlots for a number of species 
across Australia’s eastern seaboard. JBS has ten processing facilities in Australia 
and acquires livestock from cattle, lamb and pig producers. JBS’ Port Wakefield 
(South Australia) facility supplies pig slaughtering/service kill services, as well as 
further processing (boning and value-adding) services. JBS also supplies fresh 
pork, value-added pork, pork smallgoods and cooked pork products in Australia. 
• 
Rivalea is a vertically integrated pork production company with commercial 
activities in feedstock production, pig production farming, pig slaughtering/service 
kills, processing (boning and value-adding) services and the distribution of fresh 
pork and value-added pork products to wholesalers and retailers in Australia. 
Rivalea has ownership interests in two pig processing facilities in Australia, one in 
Laverton, Victoria and one in Corowa, New South Wales.  
Further details are provided at Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact on competition. In particular, we are 
seeking your views on: 
• 
whether Rivalea and JBS compete closely in pig slaughtering/service kills, 
processing (boning and value-adding services) and distribution of pork products; 
and 
• 
the impact of the proposed acquisition on: 
o prices for slaughter weight pigs 
o availability of pig slaughtering services/service kills, and 


o the production and sale of fresh pork, value-added pork and pork 
smallgoods products. 
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
Please provide your response by 5pm on 16 July 2021 via email with the title: Submission 
re: Rivalea/JBS - attention Karina Geddes / Janet Li. If you would like to arrange a time to 
discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any questions about this letter, please 
contact Karina Geddes on (02) 9102 4008, or Janet Li on (02) 9102 4024. 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public 
Mergers Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We will not 
disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by 
law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or during court proceedings) or 
in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Where the 
ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, the ACCC will notify you in advance 
where possible so that you may have an opportunity to be heard. Therefore, if the 
information provided to the ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our 
Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
Daniel McCracken-Hewson 
General Manager 
Merger Investigations  
 
 
 
 
 


Attachment A 
The proposed acquisition 
JBS proposes to acquire 100% of the issued capital in Rivalea.  
JBS 
JBS is a subsidiary of JBS S.A., a company listed on the Brazil stock exchange.  
JBS operates abattoirs, value-add facilities and feedlots for a number of species across 
Australia’s eastern seaboard. JBS has ten processing facilities in Australia and acquires 
livestock from cattle, lamb and pig producers. JBS’ Port Wakefield facility in South Australia 
supplies pig slaughtering/service kill services, as well as further processing (boning and 
value-adding) services. 
JBS acquires domestic and imported pork. Through its Primo, Primo Retail, Andrews Meats 
and D.R. Johnston businesses, JBS supplies fresh pork, value-added pork products and 
pork smallgoods (being pork products that are further processed, cooked or cured) in 
Australia. JBS’ fresh pork brands include Seven Point Australian Pork and Byron Bay 
Berkshire Pork. 
JBS’ international trade division, Swift & Company Trade Group, trades Australian pork into 
export markets. 
Rivalea 
Rivalea is a subsidiary of Singapore-listed food company QAF Limited.  
Rivalea is a vertically integrated pork production company with commercial activities in 
feedstock production, pig production farming, pig slaughtering, processing (boning and 
value-adding services) and the distribution of fresh and value-added pork products to 
wholesalers and retailers in Australia.  
Rivalea owns one pig slaughter and processing facility located in Corowa, New South 
Wales, and holds an 80% interest in Diamond Valley Pork Pty Ltd, which owns a pig 
slaughter and processing facility located in Laverton, Victoria (the Diamond Valley Pork 
facility).  
Rivalea supplies live pigs and fresh and value-added pork products (including those 
processed at the Diamond Valley Pork facility and Corowa) to major supermarkets, 
wholesalers and distributors. Rivalea’s fresh pork brands include Murray Valley Pork, 
St Bernard’s Free Range, Family Chef and Riverview Farms. 
Rivalea also exports pork products to certain Asian trading countries. 
 
 
 


 
Attachment B 
1. Please provide a brief description of your business or organisation and explain 
your interest in the proposed acquisition, including any commercial relationship(s) 
with JBS or Rivalea. 
Nature of competition and alternatives 
Questions for all market participants 
2. Please describe how you procure different types of pork products or pork related 
services—for example, through formal tender or other methods—including typical 
contract duration.  
3. Please describe the extent to which JBS and Rivalea compete with each other in: 
a. the acquisition of slaughter weight pigs 
b. the supply of pig slaughtering services/service kills 
c. the supply of processing services (boning and value-adding services), and 
d. the sale of fresh and value-added pork, and/or pork smallgoods. 
4. For each of the products and services identified in question 3 (a) to (d), please 
identify and describe the alternative purchasers/suppliers to JBS and/or Rivalea. 
In your response, please identify any purchasers/suppliers you consider 
particularly effective competitors (for example, through their innovation, product 
offering or service) and comment on your ability to switch between 
purchasers/suppliers. 
5. Over what geographic area do you consider businesses compete for each of the 
products or services identified in question 3 (a) to (d)? Please explain the factors 
which may influence the geographic scope of competition such as the location of 
processing facilities and transport considerations, including animal welfare 
standards and costs. 
6. Please discuss whether you would have the ability to bypass supply of any of the 
pork products and/or services from the combined JBS/Rivalea through switching 
to another purchaser/supplier, self-supplying, or sponsoring the entry of another 
supplier. Please provide specific examples where possible. 
7. Please discuss the likelihood of new entry into these markets. In your response, 
please consider the likely timeframe for market entry and provide details about 
the key obstacles to entry, such as any regulatory requirements, and access to 
key inputs or cost. Please provide examples of recent entry where possible. 
8. Please explain your views as to whether prices may increase or service levels 
may decrease due to the proposed acquisition for any of the products or services 
identified in question 3 (a) to (d). 
Additional questions for purchasers of pig slaughtering and processing (boning and 
value-adding) services 
9. If you purchase pigs, explain the extent to which you engage a third party to 
slaughter and/or process them (i.e. ‘service kills’). 


10. Please comment on the ability of a combined JBS/Rivalea to foreclose or 
discriminate against third parties seeking pig slaughtering services, including 
‘service kills’, or any processing (boning and value-adding) services. 
Additional questions for purchasers and suppliers of pig slaughtering and processing 
(boning and value-adding) services 
11. To your knowledge, please comment on the extent of any capacity constraints or 
excess capacity in relation to the provision of pig slaughtering services, including 
‘service kills’, or any processing (boning and value-adding) services. Where 
possible, please provide examples. 
Imports 
12. Please describe the extent of current imports of pork, in terms of product range, 
volumes, quality, and any other relevant factors. Please also identify relevant 
importers supplying customers in Australia, as well as details of any imports by 
your organisation. 
Any additional information 
13. Please provide any additional information or comments relevant to the ACCC’s 
consideration of the proposed acquisition. 
 
