Page 1 of 20 
 
Statement of Issues 
16 September 2021 
 JBS – proposed acquisition of Rivalea  
Purpose 
1. 
JBS Australia Pty Limited (JBS) proposes to acquire 100% of the shares in Rivalea 
Holdings Pty Ltd and 100% of the shares of Oxdale Dairy Enterprise Pty Ltd (together, 
Rivalea) (proposed acquisition).  
2. 
This Statement of Issues: 
• 
gives the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission’s (ACCC) preliminary 
views on competition issues arising from the proposed acquisition  
• 
identifies areas of further inquiry, and 
• 
invites interested parties to submit comments and information to assist our 
assessment of the issues. 
3. 
Statements of Issues do not refer to confidential information provided by the parties or 
other market participants and therefore may not fully articulate the ACCC’s preliminary 
position. 
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views 
4. 
In considering the proposed acquisition, the ACCC applies the legal test set out in section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the CCA). In general terms, section 50 
prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of 
substantially lessening competition in any market. 
5. 
The ACCC divides its preliminary views into three categories, 'issues of concern', 'issues 
that may raise concerns' and ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’. In this Statement of 
Issues there are two “issues that may raise concerns” and two “issues that are unlikely to 
raise concerns.” 
 
 
 


JBS – proposed acquisition of Rivalea 
 
Page 2 of 20 
Issues that may raise concerns 
• 
Frustration or foreclosure of access to third party service kills at Diamond 
Valley Pork (DVP) 
DVP is an important abattoir that offers third party service kills. Post-acquisition, JBS 
will be the majority owner of DVP. For pig producers in proximity to DVP, the ACCC 
understands that there are few suitable alternatives. The ACCC is concerned that 
JBS, due to its downstream businesses, may have a greater incentive (than the 
current majority owner, Rivalea), to frustrate or foreclose access to third party 
service kills at DVP. JBS may do this by profitably increasing the price of, or offering 
less favourable terms, for service kills. The ACCC is considering how JBS’ 
incentives may differ from those of Rivalea and in particular, the extent to which this 
may impact service kill customers who supply pork to JBS’ downstream rivals. JBS’ 
incentives to foreclose may also be increased if it were to increase its use of 
domestic pork, as is its stated intention, which could make DVP less reliant on third 
party customers. 
• 
Frustration or foreclosure of access to fresh pork for smallgoods producers 
and/or pork wholesalers 
JBS, through its Primo business, is the largest smallgoods producer in Australia. It is 
also a wholesaler of fresh pork. Post-acquisition, JBS would control three of the 
seven export accredited abattoirs in Australia (and three out of four in south-eastern 
Australia) along with a significant proportion of pork processing capacity. The ACCC 
is concerned that JBS may have the incentive to leverage its increased upstream 
presence (particularly through its increased ownership of export accredited 
abattoirs) to either directly or indirectly raise the costs of its downstream smallgoods 
or wholesaling rivals by frustrating or foreclosing their access to a key input (fresh 
pork).  
Issues unlikely to raise concerns 
• 
Lessening of competition due to direct overlap  
The ACCC has considered the direct overlap between JBS and Rivalea, including 
the extent to which they compete in the acquisition of slaughter weight pigs, supply 
of service kills, supply of pork processing and the supply of fresh pork.  
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that JBS and Rivalea do not compete to a 
significant extent in the acquisition of slaughter weight pigs, supply of service kills 
and supply of pork processing due to the location of their respective abattoirs. In 
relation to the supply of fresh pork at the wholesale or retail level, the ACCC’s 
preliminary view is that there are a range of other suppliers, so it is unlikely there will 
be a substantial lessening of competition due to loss of competition between JBS 
and Rivalea.  
• 
Bundling of other meats/meat products 
As JBS does not supply any “must have” products which do not have close 
alternatives, the ACCC considers that JBS is unlikely to have sufficient bargaining 
power to demand customers acquire products in bundles post-acquisition.  
 


JBS – proposed acquisition of Rivalea 
 
Page 3 of 20 
Making a submission 
6. 
The ACCC invites submissions from interested parties, particularly on the following key 
issues: 
• 
the extent to which the cost of service kills and processing influences the region 
where a customer acquires their pigs from 
• 
the likelihood of new entry/expansion in pig production and/or service kills 
• 
the distribution and transportation processes for pig carcasses and boned pork, 
including the distance transported 
• 
how pork is procured at the wholesale level and the extent to which the 
abattoir/processor has limited visibility and control over the flow of pork to 
smallgoods producers and pork wholesalers 
• 
the main factors smallgoods producers consider when acquiring fresh pork and the 
extent to which imported pork is substitutable with fresh pork, and 
• 
the level of competitive constraint from imported pork on the domestic fresh pork 
supply chain, particularly for smallgoods producers.  
7. 
Interested parties should provide submissions by 5pm on 30 September 2021. Responses 
may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: Submission re: JBS/Rivalea - 
attention Janet Li/Annabel Garrard. If you would like to discuss the matter with ACCC staff 
or have any questions about this Statement of Issues, please contact Janet Li on (02) 
9102 4024 or Annabel Garrard (02) 9102 4028.  
8. 
The ACCC anticipates making a final decision on 9 December 2021, however, this 
timeline can change. To keep up with possible timing changes and to find relevant 
documents, interested parties should visit the Mergers Register on the ACCC's website at 
www.accc.gov.au/publicregisters/mergers-registers/public-informal-merger-reviews. 
Confidentiality of submissions 
9. 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We will not 
disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled 
by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or during court proceedings) 
or in accordance with s155AAA of the CCA. Where the ACCC is required to disclose 
confidential information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where possible so that you 
may have an opportunity to be heard. Therefore, please identify any confidential 
information that is provided to the ACCC. Our Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines 
contain more information on confidentiality. 
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’ 
10. 
A Statement of Issues is not a final decision about a proposed acquisition. A Statement of 
Issues outlines the ACCC’s preliminary views and identifies further lines of inquiry. 
11. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and consider 
the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide the merger parties 
and other interested parties with the basis for making further submissions should they 
consider it necessary. 


JBS – proposed acquisition of Rivalea 
 
Page 4 of 20 
The parties 
JBS 
12. 
JBS is a subsidiary of JBS S.A., a company listed on the Brazilian stock exchange. 
13. 
JBS operates abattoirs, processing (boning and value-adding) facilities and feedlots for a 
number of species across Australia's eastern seaboard. Relevant to this proposed 
acquisition, JBS’ Seven Point Pork Abattoir in Port Wakefield (SA) supplies service kills, 
as well as further processing services. JBS also acquires domestic and imported pork. 
14. 
Through its Primo, Primo Retail, Andrews Meats and D.R. Johnston businesses, JBS 
supplies fresh pork, value-added pork products and pork smallgoods in Australia. Primo is 
the largest supplier of pork smallgoods in Australia. JBS’ fresh pork brands include Seven 
Point Australian Pork and Byron Bay Berkshire Pork. 
15. 
Other JBS businesses include:  
• 
Swift & Company Trade Group, an international trade division that source a range of 
meat proteins and offal products, and a major importer of pork into Australia 
• 
JBS Imports, a division that markets JBS Australia meat products to retail, 
foodservice, wholesale and further processor customers across North America 
• 
JBS Carriers, a transportation division of JBS Australia supporting the transportation 
of cattle and other products, and  
• 
Scott Technology Limited (majority shareholder), a company involved in the 
provision of automated abattoir production and processing machinery.   
Rivalea 
16. 
Rivalea is a subsidiary of Singapore-listed food company, QAF Limited.  
17. 
Rivalea is a vertically integrated pork production company with operations in both VIC and 
NSW. Its commercial activities include feedstock production, pig production, service kills, 
processing (boning and value-adding services) and the distribution of fresh and value-
added pork products to wholesalers and retailers in Australia. 
18. 
Rivalea owns an abattoir and processing facility located at Corowa (NSW) and holds an 
80% shareholding in Diamond Valley Pork Pty Ltd, which owns a pig abattoir and pork 
processing plant in Laverton, near Melbourne. 
19. 
Rivalea supplies live pigs as well as fresh and value-added pork products (including those 
processed at DVP and the Corowa facilities). Their key customers include supermarkets, 
wholesalers and distributors. Rivalea’s fresh pork brands include Murray Valley Pork, St 
Bernard’s Free Range, Family Chef and Riverview Farms. Unlike JBS, Rivalea does not 
manufacture or sell smallgoods.  
Other industry participants 
20. 
A number of competitors have some level of vertical integration in the pork supply chain. 
Besides JBS and Rivalea, there are three other main vertically integrated players: 
• SunPork – is the largest pig producer in Australia and owns an export accredited 
abattoir and processing facility, Swickers in Kingaroy (QLD). It also has a 


JBS – proposed acquisition of Rivalea 
 
Page 5 of 20 
shareholding in the export accredited Big River Pork abattoir (SA). SunPork pork 
brands include SunPork, Seven Mile, Barkers Creek and Koal. 
• Food Investments (George Weston Foods) – is a food manufacturer that delivers 
a range of diverse brands and products. It is the second largest smallgoods 
producer after Primo (via its Don and KR Castlemaine brands). It also has a 
shareholding in the Big River Pork abattoir (SA).  
• Craig Mostyn & Co. – operates across WA and TAS in various species, including 
the production of pork products. It also owns and operates the export accredited 
Linley Valley Abattoir (WA). 
Industry background 
21. 
Between March 2020 and March 2021, Australia produced 5.4 million pigs for slaughter.1 
All fresh pork consumed in Australia is domestically produced. Strict regulatory controls 
require any imported pork to be cooked or frozen prior to entry to Australia.  
Pig production  
22. 
Pigs are raised throughout the year in all Australian states, with the majority of production 
occurring on the eastern seaboard.  
23. 
Market inquiries indicate that pig farms are capital intensive and typically operate at full 
capacity. Each week, pig producers’ key target is to sell market ready pigs as soon as 
they reach slaughter weight in order to free up farm space and optimise farm output. A 
delay in slaughter can be detrimental for pig producers as pigs quickly exceed optimum 
weight. They may only be able to sell at a discounted rate if the weight of the pig is 
outside the customers’ requirements, and the additional cost of feeding pigs can be 
significant. Further, the short shelf-life of pork (relative to beef or lamb) also means that 
pigs need to be slaughtered on particular days of the week in order to meet customers’ 
timing demand for peak sale periods. 
Transportation from farm to abattoir   
24. 
Once market weight is achieved, live pigs are transported to abattoirs for slaughter. The 
optimum slaughter weight varies according to the intended use for the pork. The majority 
of pigs in Australia are slaughtered as ‘porker’ pigs for fresh cuts of pork, as it is typically 
the most profitable size for pig producers. Larger pigs, known as ‘baconers’ are used in 
ham and smallgoods. Older breeders are sold as ‘cull pigs’ or ‘backfatters’ for use in other 
smallgoods products. 
25. 
Pigs lose weight and become more stressed the longer they are transported. Stress 
directly affects meat quality, and weight loss means pigs are less profitable once 
slaughtered. Transport distance and time are particular concerns for market participants. 
Market feedback indicates that most service kill customers prefer to transport live pigs no 
more than 350km (or 4 hours’ travel time) from farm to abattoir due to practical reasons 
including: 
• 
animal welfare concerns (including for industry accreditation, service kill customer 
preferences/requirements, and branding reasons) 
• 
freight costs  
                                                 
 
1  Australian Bureau of Statistics, “Livestock Products, Australia” March 2021, 
<https://www.abs.gov.au/statistics/industry/agriculture/livestock-products-australia/latest-release> 


JBS – proposed acquisition of Rivalea 
 
Page 6 of 20 
• 
customer requirements (including requirements that live pigs not travel more than a 
particular number of hours to reach an abattoir), and 
• 
decline in carcass yield and deterioration of meat quality (including loss of weight, 
bruising and mortality rates). 
26. 
While some pigs may be transported further, it is infrequent and there are generally 
specific circumstances in which this occurs (e.g. cooler temperatures, or particular 
transportation technologies). 
Service kills 
27. 
Pig service kills in Australia are typically conducted separately to that of cattle, sheep and 
other species due to the unique kill-method (gas), certifications (e.g. Halal certifications for 
red meat prevent pork operations on those sites) and regulatory requirements. Pig 
abattoirs are therefore generally exclusively dedicated to the slaughter of pigs. Abattoirs 
dedicated to other species are not substitutable, or easily repurposed, for pig slaughter. 
28. 
The majority of pigs in Australia are killed under arrangements known as ‘service kills’. 
That is, the abattoir performs the slaughter as a service for a customer and it does not 
own the pig. Ownership of the pig, and thereby the customer of the abattoir, depends on 
the arrangements pig producers have with their acquirers (i.e. processor or wholesaler): 
• 
pig producers may retain ownership of the pigs until the point of slaughter, at which 
point ownership may transfer to the acquirer, or  
• 
the acquirer of the pork may take ownership of the pig at the farm, and the pig 
producer sends the pigs for slaughter at the abattoir specified by the acquirer. 
29. 
There are seven export accredited abattoirs in Australia that account for approximately 
85% of all pigs slaughtered in Australia. Details of these abattoirs are set out in Table 1 
and Figure 1. 
Table 1: Overview of export accredited pig abattoirs in Australia 
Facility 
Ownership 
Location 
Seven Point Pork  
JBS 
Port Wakefield, SA 
Corowa 
Rivalea 
Corowa, NSW 
Diamond Valley Pork 
80% by Rivalea  
Laverton, VIC 
Big River Pork 
Sunpork, Food Investments (GWF), 
Hurstbridge Abattoirs, Auspork, BE 
Campbell, Australian Pork Farms Group 
Murray Bridge, SA 
Swickers 
SunPork 
Kingaroy, QLD 
Linley Valley Pork 
Craig Mostyn Group 
Wundowie, WA 
Booyong 
Northern Co-operative Meat Co 
Clunes, NSW 
 


JBS – proposed acquisition of Rivalea 
 
Page 7 of 20 
Figure 1: Map of export accredited pig abattoirs in Australia 
 
30. 
There are also a number of non-export accredited abattoirs, particularly along the eastern 
seaboard (including QLD, NSW, VIC and SA) and in Western Australia.  
31. 
As noted above, 85% of pigs in Australia are slaughtered at the seven export accredited 
abattoirs in Australia. Market feedback indicates that export accreditation is an indicator of 
the quality of the service kill. Such accreditation is very important to customers, even 
those that do not export, for the following reasons:  
• 
better facilities and higher quality service resulting in higher carcass yield, better 
meat quality and longer shelf-life 
• 
higher capacity and ability to process more pigs on preferred days/times, and  
• 
higher animal welfare standards, including more humane lairage and slaughter. 
32. 
In light of the reasons above, many acquirers of pork require that pigs be slaughtered at 
an export accredited abattoir, regardless of whether the pork is for export or domestic 
consumption. 
Pork processing 
33. 
Once slaughtered and chilled, pig carcasses can be: 
• 
processed at the abattoir to the specifications of customers 
• 
transported to a third party pork processor for further processing to the 
specifications of customers, or 
• 
transported directly to the customers’ facilities to process the pork themselves.  
34. 
Market inquiries indicated that most pork is sold into the market through a combined pork 
processor/wholesaler. There are also a number of independent processors who operate 
processing facilities (including "boning rooms") where customers (e.g. 
wholesalers/butchers/smallgoods producers etc.) can take their carcasses for further 
boning. 


JBS – proposed acquisition of Rivalea 
 
Page 8 of 20 
35. 
Processors conduct various processing activities, before on-selling or distributing the pork 
to customers of various wholesale and retail channels throughout Australia as well as to 
some export customers. The processing activities include: 
• 
boning - which involves breaking down the carcass into portions 
• 
value-adding - which occurs once the pork has been boned and includes making 
fresh sausages, preparing pork for retail packs (including adding rubs/marinades) 
and cooking (e.g. for ready-meals), and  
• 
smallgoods manufacturing - which involves further cooking, curing or processing 
pork to create smallgoods including bacon, ham, salamis, prosciutto and other 
specialty smallgoods. The majority of smallgoods consumed in Australia are ham 
and bacon products. A substantial proportion of ham and bacon consumed in 
Australia is made from imported pork, primarily from the USA, Denmark and 
Canada. For biosecurity reasons, bone-in leg hams must be Australian pork. 
Wholesale supply of fresh pork 
36. 
As noted above, there are a number of mid-sized pork processor/wholesaler operators 
that process their own pigs before on-selling fresh pork through various wholesale and 
retail channels. There are also a number of market participants that operate only as a 
wholesale supplier of fresh pork (without being a pork processor).  
37. 
Customers of wholesale suppliers of fresh pork include: 
• 
major supermarkets 
• 
retail butcher shops and delis 
• 
food service (including restaurants, pubs and clubs) 
• 
smallgoods producers, and 
• 
export customers. 
38. 
The form of fresh pork supplied to these customers will vary according to the customers’ 
needs (for example, retail-ready cuts and value-added products for supermarkets, and 
fresh/frozen meat for smallgoods producers).  
The proposed transaction 
39. 
JBS proposes to acquire 100% of the shares in Rivalea, for a total value of approximately 
A$175 million. 
40. 
Under the proposed transaction, JBS will acquire a number of assets, including pig grower 
farms; 80% of shares in the Diamond Valley Pork abattoir and processing facilities in VIC; 
the abattoir, processing facilities and piggery located at Corowa, NSW; and pork brands 
including St Bernard’s Free Range Pork, Riverview Farms, and Baxters Pork. 
 
 
 
 


JBS – proposed acquisition of Rivalea 
 
Page 9 of 20 
Areas of overlap 
41. 
JBS and Rivalea are both vertically integrated companies in the pork industry. Table 2 
sets out the functional levels of the pork supply chain that JBS and Rivalea compete in.  
Table 2: level of the pork supply chain JBS and Rivalea operate in 
Supply chain level 
JBS 
Rivalea 
Feedstock production 
 
 
Pig growing / production 
 
 
Transportation 
 
 
Pork imports 
 
 
Acquisition of pigs 
 
 
Slaughtering (including service kills) 
 
 
Pork processing (boning and value-add) 
 
 
Manufacturing of pork smallgoods 
 
 
Wholesale supply of pork  
 
 
Pork exports 
 
 
 
Relevant markets  
Product and functional dimensions of the markets 
42. 
In light of the vertical integration and overlap, the ACCC is considering: 
• 
the upstream and downstream effects from the consolidation of the export 
accredited abattoirs post-acquisition (vertical effects), and  
• 
the competitive effects at different functional levels where JBS and Rivalea overlap 
(horizontal effects).  
43. 
Below are the markets that are relevant to the ACCC’s consideration of horizontal and 
vertical competitive effects. 
Acquisition of slaughter weight pigs 
44. 
The ACCC considers that the geographic dimension for the acquisition of slaughter weight 
pigs is similar to service kills for reasons discussed in paragraph 48 below. 
45. 
The ACCC is continuing to investigate and assess the extent to which transportation costs 
influence the geographic scope of competition for acquisition of slaughter weight pigs and 
whether the price, quality and/or availability of service kills offered by different abattoirs 
influence where acquirers of slaughter weight pigs source their pigs from.  
Service kills 
46. 
JBS and Rivalea both supply export accredited service kills in south-eastern Australia. 
Post-acquisition, there would be a consolidation of export accredited abattoir operators 
from three to two in south-eastern Australia. 


JBS – proposed acquisition of Rivalea 
 
Page 10 of 20 
47. 
Strong and consistent market feedback indicates that non-export accredited abattoirs are 
not close substitutes for export accredited abattoirs because of the lack of features set out 
in paragraph 31 above. In particular, the superior quality of the kill and higher standard of 
animal welfare are the key reasons why many market participants only use export 
accredited abattoirs, even if the pork is only for domestic distribution. The ACCC’s 
preliminary view is that non-export accredited abattoirs do not competitively constrain 
export accredited abattoirs.  
48. 
As noted above at paragraph 25, the ACCC understands that the preference for pig 
producers is to have pigs slaughtered at an abattoir within 350km (or 4 hours travel) from 
the farm due to reasons including animal welfare, quality of meat and freight costs. In 
relation to the other customers of service kills (i.e. acquirers of pork), the ACCC is 
continuing to consider whether the price, quality and/or availability of service kills offered 
by different abattoirs influence where acquirers of pork source their pigs from. 
Pork processing 
49. 
All export accredited abattoirs in Australia have onsite processing facilities. Available 
information suggests that pork can be transported greater distances than live pigs. The 
ACCC’s understanding is that fresh pork (pig carcasses and boned pork) is capable of 
being transported for up to three days with appropriate refrigerated transportation.  
50. 
The ACCC is continuing to investigate and assess: 
• 
whether the non-vertically integrated pork processors (i.e. the operators without a 
pig abattoir) will be a close constraint on the two export-accredited operators in 
south-eastern Australia post-acquisition 
• 
whether the price/quality/availability of pork processing services influence the 
customers’ choice of abattoir and the region they source pigs from, and 
• 
the extent to which transportation costs influence the geographic scope of 
competition for pork processing services. 
Wholesale supply of fresh pork  
51. 
As mentioned above, there is potential for fresh pork to be transported greater distances 
than live pigs and the ACCC is currently considering a national market for the wholesale 
supply of fresh pork. However, the ACCC is continuing to assess the extent to which 
transportation costs influence the geographic scope of competition for the wholesale 
supply of fresh pork. The ACCC is also continuing to assess the extent to which imported 
pork is a close substitute for the wholesale supply of fresh pork to some customers, 
particularly smallgoods producers.  
52. 
As mentioned in paragraph 21 above, all imported pork must be frozen or cooked. While 
imported pork is used for the manufacturing of some smallgoods, the ACCC understands 
that the imported pork is generally from larger pigs and unlikely to be substitutable for 
fresh pork as an end product. 
Wholesale supply of pork smallgoods 
53. 
Smallgoods producers in Australia generally distribute their products nationally, 
suggesting that the geographic market for the supply of smallgoods is national. 
 


JBS – proposed acquisition of Rivalea 
 
Page 11 of 20 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary views about the 
relevant market(s). In particular, market participants may wish to comment on: 
Supply of pigs by pig producers 
• 
Do pig producers generally supply to one customer or multiple/different customers? 
• 
Please outline the cost, time and any other requirements associated with increasing pig 
production at an existing farm. Where applicable, please distinguish between a short-term or 
long-term increase.  
Acquisition of slaughter weight pigs 
• 
Does the price, quality and availability of service kills at different abattoirs and/or transport 
costs influence which pig producers you choose to acquire pigs from? 
Supply of service kills to processors and wholesalers 
• 
For fresh pork retailers, processors and wholesalers, does the price, quality and availability 
of service kills at different abattoirs influence which pig producers you choose to source pigs 
from?  
• 
For fresh pork retailers, processors and wholesalers, if the price of service kills from your 
current provider increased by 5-10 per cent, would you seek to procure pigs from a different 
region? In your response, please outline the cost, location and any other factors which 
would influence your choice of service kill provider.  
• 
For service kill providers, if the volume of service kills at your abattoir reduced by 5-10 per 
cent, how would this impact profitability on the remaining volumes? 
Supply of pork processing 
• 
For fresh pork retailers and wholesalers, does the price, quality and availability of onsite 
pork processing at different abattoirs influence which pig producers you choose to source 
pigs from? 
• 
For fresh pork retailers and wholesalers, does the price, quality and availability of onsite 
pork processing at different abattoirs influence which abattoir you choose to slaughter pigs 
at? 
• 
For smallgoods producers, how close a substitute is imported pork for fresh pork? What 
factors influence the extent to which you choose imported pork over fresh pork? 
Transportation of pork carcasses 
• 
What is the average and maximum distance (in km and hours) a pig carcass can be 
transported from an abattoir to its next location? 
• 
Please specify the cost of transportation. If you have experienced transporting pork 
carcasses across various distances, please specify the transportation cost for each 
distance.  
Transportation of boned pork 
• 
What is the average and maximum distance (in km and hours) boned pork can be 
transported from a processing facility to its next location. 
• 
Please outline the types of packaging used when transporting boned pork, including whether 
there are different packaging requirements associated with particular cuts and the extent to 
which different packaging affects the shelf-life of boned pork.  
• 
Please specify the cost of transportation. If you have experienced transporting boned pork at 
various distances, please specify the transportation cost for different distances. 


JBS – proposed acquisition of Rivalea 
 
Page 12 of 20 
Issue that may raise concern: Frustration or foreclosure of 
access to third party service kills at DVP  
54. 
Pig abattoirs compete for ‘service kill’ customers. ‘Service kill customers’ are typically pig 
producers or other customers that acquire pigs directly from farms for use in their 
downstream pork operation (including processors, wholesalers and major supermarkets). 
55. 
DVP is an important abattoir that primarily offers third party service kills. As set out in 
paragraphs 25 and 26, there are limitations on the time and distance that live pigs can be 
transported from farm to abattoir for service kills. Most service kill customers prefer to 
transport live pigs within 350km (or 4 hours’ drive) from farm to abattoir. For pig producers 
in proximity to DVP, the ACCC understands that there are few suitable alternatives (see 
discussion below).  
56. 
Given the abattoir’s location, any majority owner of the asset would have the ability to 
frustrate or foreclose access to third party service kills at DVP. However, available 
information indicates that Rivalea does not have the commercial incentive to engage in 
this conduct. The ACCC is investigating the extent to which JBS’ incentives as majority 
owner may differ from those of Rivalea. 
57. 
Post-acquisition, JBS would be further vertically integrated, having operations at all levels 
of the pork supply chain including pig production, service kills, processing as well as the 
supply of various pork products (including raw pork, cooked pork and smallgoods). 
58. 
JBS has publicly stated that the proposed acquisition will enable them to expand into pig 
production and intends to grow the use of domestic pork in JBS’ Australian operations, 
particularly within its Primo business2. Market participants have raised concerns that post-
acquisition, JBS may prioritise the service kills of Rivalea pigs or pigs that are used as 
inputs for its Primo business and/or wholesale supply of fresh pork. This may have the 
effect of decreasing DVP’s capacity for third party service kills or the terms of the service 
kills (e.g. the timing and scheduling of the kills) becoming less favourable. 
59. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition may lessen the supply of service 
kills by enabling JBS to frustrate access by profitably increasing the price of, offering less 
favourable terms for, or foreclosing access to third party service kills at DVP. JBS’s 
significant downstream presence (including the wholesale supply of fresh pork and 
smallgoods) means that it may have the incentive to operate DVP in a more discriminatory 
manner relative to how Rivalea currently runs it. This reduction in service kills may, in turn, 
result in a substantial lessening of competition in related upstream markets.  
 
 
 
 
                                                 
 
2 
JBS 
Food 
Group, 
“JBS 
Australia 
to 
Acquire 
Pork 
Producer 
Rivalea”, 
8 
June 
2021 
<https://jbsfoodsgroup.com/articles/jbs-australia-to-acquire-pork-producer-rivalea>; Warwick Long, “Australia’s largest 
meat 
processor 
JBS 
buys 
Rivalea 
piggery 
in 
$175m 
deal”, 
ABC 
News, 
9 
June 
2021 
<https://www.abc.net.au/news/2021-06-09/jbs-buying-large-australian-piggery-rivalea-175m/100200606>; 
Brad 
Thompson, “JBS takes aim at pork imports with pledge to raise more pigs”, Australian Financial Review, 9 June 2021 
<https://www.afr.com/companies/agriculture/jbs-takes-aim-at-pork-imports-with-pledge-to-raise-more-pigs-20210609-
p57zfo> 


JBS – proposed acquisition of Rivalea 
 
Page 13 of 20 
The importance of DVP for service kills  
60. 
DVP, currently majority owned by Rivalea, is an important abattoir because it satisfies 
three key factors that customers value when choosing an abattoir:  
1. Availability of third party service kills: Pig producers need to access service kills 
consistently (on a weekly basis and on the days they require the kills to take place). 
This is due to a combination of factors, including:  
a. customers will often have very specific carcass weight requirements, which 
means that pigs need to be slaughtered once they reach optimum slaughter 
weight 
b. fresh pork has a short shelf life (relative to beef or lamb), so pigs need to be 
slaughtered on certain days of the week to meet customer’s timing demands 
for weekly peak sale periods, and 
c. customers may only be prepared to pay a significantly discounted rate for 
pork that does not meet their requirements. 
2. Export-accreditation: Export accreditation is an indication of quality because those 
abattoirs generally have better technology to ensure a better quality service kills while 
minimising stress to the pigs. These factors contribute to producing better quality 
pork. Many customers require that pigs are killed at an export accredited abattoir, 
even if the pork is for local distribution. 
3. Accessible for pig producers: Proximity of the abattoir to the pig farm is an important 
consideration. As discussed in paragraph 25 above, pigs’ weight loss and stress 
increase the longer they travel. Due to the lack of suitable alternatives (discussed 
further below) many pigs within 350km (or 4 hours road travel) of DVP, which require 
export accredited quality service kills are slaughtered at DVP. 
The lack of suitable alternatives for pig producers currently using DVP 
61. 
The ACCC understands from pig producer customers of DVP that the other export and 
non-export accredited abattoirs nearest to DVP do not satisfy the three factors above:  
Abattoir 
Distance to 
DVP 
Why it is not a viable alternative to DVP 
Australian Food 
Group Abattoir at 
Laverton (VIC)  
~2km (3min 
drive) 
• Not export accredited 
• Small scale operation and would not be 
able to service some pig producers’ 
volumes 
Sinclair Abattoir at 
Benalla (VIC) 
~200km (2.5 
hour drive) 
Rivalea’s abattoir at 
Corowa (NSW)  
~300km (3.5 
hour drive) 
• The abattoir is located within the piggery, 
and not able to offer third party service 
kills due to biosecurity controls 
Big River Pork at 
Murray Bridge (SA) 
~600km (7 
hour drive) 
• Too far for pigs to travel, causing animal 
welfare and pork quality issues 
• The ACCC understands from the market 
that it is currently operating at capacity 
 
 


JBS – proposed acquisition of Rivalea 
 
Page 14 of 20 
High barriers to entry to service kills  
62. 
Market feedback suggests that there are high barriers to entry for service kills. Building a 
new export accredited abattoir would require a significant amount of capital investment 
(possibly upwards of A$30 million), need to satisfy a range of regulatory requirements 
(including licensing, planning permission, environmental management plans and export 
accreditation), location requirements (proximity and accessibility to pig farms), and require 
2-3 years to complete. A key impediment identified by market participants is the need for 
minimum guaranteed throughput. An export accredited abattoir would require economies 
of scale for the investment and operation to be commercially viable. Even to convert a 
non-export accredited abattoir would be costly and need to satisfy fairly high regulatory 
requirements (including those set out above) and guaranteed additional throughput to 
justify the cost of upgrade.  
63. 
The ACCC understands that there has been limited new entry in the 20 years since Big 
River Pork was founded. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that JBS would not be 
constrained by the threat of new entry in the foreseeable future. 
ACCC’s concerns 
64. 
JBS’ majority ownership of DVP and the lack of suitable alternatives for pig producers in 
proximity to DVP would provide JBS with the ability to either frustrate access by raising 
prices or offering less favourable terms, or to foreclose access to third party service kills at 
DVP post-acquisition.  
65. 
The ACCC is considering the extent to which JBS’ incentives may differ from those of 
current owner Rivalea post-acquisition. The ACCC is concerned that JBS’ increased 
vertical integration may provide it with the incentive to engage in the conduct described in 
paragraph 59 above, especially in relation to DVP customers who would supply JBS’ 
downstream rivals post-acquisition. The ACCC is continuing to investigate JBS’ 
commercial incentives in relation to the provision of service kills post-acquisition, and 
whether it may provide service kills on less favourable terms to certain customers.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to access to 
service kills post-acquisition. In particular, market participants may wish to comment on the 
following: 
Acquisition of pigs and service kills 
• 
If you are an acquirer of pigs and currently use DVP, what would you do if there was a 10% 
increase in the price of service kills at DVP? For example, would you switch to acquiring 
from a pig producer closer to a different abattoir? 
• 
If you are an acquirer of pigs and currently use DVP, do you also use service kills at other 
abattoirs? If so which ones and what are the volumes slaughtered at each abattoir? 
Acquisition of pork by butchers and wholesalers 
• 
What are the proportions of fresh and frozen pork that butchers/wholesalers normally 
acquire? Please provide a breakdown where possible.  
• 
Please explain whether it’s possible to acquire fresh and/or frozen pork from interstate (for 
example, a butcher/wholesaler located in NSW or VIC to acquire fresh pork from QLD). In 
your response, please also provide the key factors that make interstate acquisition possible 
or not possible. 
• 
Do wholesalers purchase pork (carcass or boned) from a single source or multiple sources? 
• 
To what extent, if any, do service kill and processing costs influence the wholesale price of 
pork smallgoods? 


JBS – proposed acquisition of Rivalea 
 
Page 15 of 20 
Building an abattoir 
• 
What is the minimum throughput (service kills per week) to justify investment in 
developing/building an export accredited abattoir? 
• 
What would be the cost, time and other requirements needed to convert a non-export 
accredited abattoir to an export accredited abattoir? 
• 
How easy/difficult is it for service kill customers to build a cooperative abattoir (e.g. like Big 
River Pork), and how long will that take? Would that be a suitable alternative to DVP? 
Please provide examples of it having been done previously and if it was successful. 
Issue that may raise concern: Frustration or foreclosure of 
access to fresh pork for smallgoods producers and/or pork 
wholesalers  
66. 
JBS owns the Seven Point Pork abattoir at Port Wakefield (SA) while Rivalea owns two 
abattoirs - DVP at Laverton (VIC) and one at Corowa (NSW). Post-acquisition, JBS would 
own three of the seven export accredited abattoirs in Australia and three out of four in 
south-eastern Australia (SA, VIC and NSW).  
67. 
JBS, via its Primo business, is currently the largest supplier of smallgoods in Australia with 
approximately 40% market share. George Weston Foods (Don, KR Castlemaine) is the 
second largest smallgoods producer in Australia with 10-20% market share, followed by 
Bertocchi Smallgoods with 5-10%, and D’Orsogna and Tibaldi with less than 5% each.  
68. 
Rivalea is one of the largest pig producers in Australia and currently supplies fresh pork to 
some smallgoods manufacturers, including those that compete with Primo. Rivalea does 
not manufacture smallgoods itself.  
69. 
Noting JBS may increase the use of domestic pork within its Primo business (see 
paragraph 58 above), the ACCC is concerned that JBS may have the incentive to 
leverage its increased ownership of the number of export accredited abattoirs in Australia 
(together with its operations in various businesses along the pork supply chain as set out 
in paragraphs 14 and 15 above) to raise the costs of its downstream smallgoods and/or 
wholesale rivals, by frustrating or foreclosing their access to fresh pork. The ACCC 
acknowledges that, if JBS continues to operate a service kill model at Port Wakefield and 
DVP, JBS would not own most of the pigs being slaughtered at those facilities, so could 
not necessarily directly increase the cost of wholesale fresh pork. However, it could 
indirectly raise rivals’ costs by increasing service kill costs, or offering service kills on less 
favourable terms to those customers it knows supply to its rivals downstream. If JBS had 
the ability and incentive to engage in such conduct post-acquisition, this may substantially 
lessen competition for the wholesale supply of smallgoods or fresh pork in Australia. 
Smallgoods producers’ input requirements and import competition  
70. 
The key input for smallgoods is pork, which may be fresh pork and/or frozen pork. While 
frozen pork can be imported, fresh pork can only be acquired domestically due to 
biosecurity regulations. Although some smallgoods products can use imported pork (e.g. 
boneless ham and bacon), others require fresh pork (e.g. bone-in leg ham). As such, 
some smallgoods (notably ham and bacon) are subject to a level of import competition, 
while other smallgoods experience less import competition. 
71. 
Domestic pork production has remained constant in Australia over the past 20 years, 
despite consumption of pork products almost doubling in the same period. The vast 
majority of this growth in demand has been filled by imports. Some market participants 


JBS – proposed acquisition of Rivalea 
 
Page 16 of 20 
attributed the increased use of imported pork in smallgoods to insufficient domestic 
supply. However, others cited the comparatively cheaper price of imported pork relative to 
domestic fresh pork as the primary reason for Australia’s increased use of imported pork 
in smallgoods.   
72. 
Market feedback indicated that while some Australian smallgoods producers use imported 
pork, others are unable or unwilling to do so. Some of the cited reasons why imported 
pork is not a viable substitute for domestic pork included: 
• 
Biosecurity laws prevent the use of imported pork in some smallgoods – for 
example, ‘bone in’ leg hams are required by law to contain 100% Australian pork 
• 
Onerous import licence requirements – market participants noted the costs and 
auditing requirements associated with acquiring and maintaining an import licence 
meant they are unable or unlikely to acquire one, particularly for smaller producers 
that require smaller volumes of pork 
• 
Branding and consumer preferences require domestic pork – some market 
participants have noted the importance of ‘Australian’ pork to their brand. 
73. 
In respect of the acquisition of domestic fresh pork, the ACCC is currently considering a 
national market for the supply of wholesale pork, however notes that some market 
participants have indicated a preference to acquire fresh pork from the same state or 
neighbouring states/territories due to transportation costs and the short shelf-life of pork.  
74. 
The form and types of pork acquired by smallgoods producers appear to vary. While some 
smallgoods producers may acquire whole carcasses, some only purchase boned pork 
from wholesalers.  
JBS’ increased control of export accredited abattoirs 
75. 
As mentioned above, JBS would own and control three of the seven export accredited 
abattoirs in Australia (and three out of four in south-eastern Australia) post-acquisition. 
76. 
As explained in paragraphs 31 and 32 above, export accredited abattoirs are critical for 
some pork acquirers, even for domestic distribution, because the pork produced from 
those abattoirs is considered to be of a higher quality and have a longer shelf-life than 
pork produced from a non-export accredited facility. 
77. 
Market participants are concerned that through its increased ownership of export 
accredited abattoirs in Australia (and south-eastern Australia in particular), JBS may have 
the ability to indirectly increase its rival smallgoods producers’ price of, or foreclose 
access to, key inputs (fresh pork) by restricting the supply of third party service kills, or 
providing access on less favourable terms. Consequently: 
• 
the amount of fresh pork available in Australia may diminish, resulting in rival 
smallgoods producers not being able to source a key input, and/or 
• 
the price of fresh pork would increase, resulting in increased costs for Primo’s 
smallgoods rivals. 
78. 
Some abattoir customers that have operations downstream have submitted that there is 
currently an ability to switch to alternative export accredited facilities in the event of a price 
increase or decrease in quality. However, these options would be decreased post-
acquisition, given the significant capacity which would be under JBS’ control. 
 


JBS – proposed acquisition of Rivalea 
 
Page 17 of 20 
ACCC’s concerns 
79. 
JBS’ increased ownership and control of a significant proportion of abattoir capacity in 
Australia would limit service kill customers’ ability to switch to a non-JBS owned abattoir. 
JBS’ ability would be further enhanced if it has visibility over the ultimate end-user of the 
fresh pork downstream. The proposed acquisition therefore may provide JBS the ability to 
increase the price of service kills, and in turn increase the price of a key input (fresh pork) 
for smallgoods producers and/or pork wholesalers.  
80. 
JBS may have the incentive to undertake such a foreclosure strategy to disadvantage its 
rival smallgoods competitors by indirectly increasing their input costs to gain market share 
in smallgoods and/or profitably increase prices of smallgoods. 
81. 
Rival smallgoods producers’ reduced access to fresh pork and/or increased costs may 
also impact retail supply. Supermarkets have a complex selection process based on 
quality, service and price. The increased price or lack of volume to satisfy supermarket 
customers by Primo’s smallgoods rivals could potentially narrow their distribution channels 
and revenue. This may ultimately increase price and/or decrease choice of brands and 
smallgoods products for retail customers.  
82. 
The ACCC understands that some pork wholesalers purchase fresh pork in the market to 
distribute to its customers. For similar reasons to those set out above, the ACCC is also 
considering the impact the proposed acquisition may have on pork wholesalers’ access to 
fresh pork, and would welcome any comments. 
83. 
The ACCC is continuing to investigate/seeking to better understand: 
• 
The distance over which fresh pork used in smallgoods production can be 
distributed. Specifically, any additional costs that smallgoods producers or 
wholesalers in south-eastern Australia would incur if they acquired fresh pork from 
Queensland or Western Australia    
• 
Whether imported pork is a close substitute for fresh pork and whether it would be 
profitable for JBS to foreclose smallgoods producers and pork wholesalers’ access 
to domestic fresh pork given the comparatively cheaper price of imported pork, and  
• 
The commercial incentives for JBS to provide service kills against any commercial 
incentive for JBS to increase the competitiveness of its Primo business through 
directly or indirectly restricting supply of fresh pork to their smallgoods rivals and/or 
increasing rivals’ costs. In particular, whether JBS would be constrained by other 
suppliers of fresh pork. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to smallgoods 
producers’ access to fresh pork. In particular, market participants may wish to comment on the 
following: 
Acquisition of pork inputs by smallgoods producers 
• 
Please identify the types of smallgoods that require fresh pork as an input and explain 
whether frozen pork or imported pork are substitutable inputs for producing those types of 
smallgoods. 
• 
Please identify whether smallgoods producers acquire pork carcasses or boned pork. 
• 
Please identify whether it’s possible for smallgoods producers to acquire pork inputs (fresh 
and/or frozen) from interstate (for example, a whether a smallgoods manufacturer located in 
NSW or VIC would acquire pork from QLD). In your response, please provide details of the 
packaging in which the pork inputs arrive in and any additional costs of acquiring pork inputs 
from interstate 


JBS – proposed acquisition of Rivalea 
 
Page 18 of 20 
• 
Please provide the average distance (km and hours) in which the pork inputs (fresh and/or 
frozen) are transported from abattoir/processing facilities to the manufacturing facilities, the 
method of transportation used and the cost of transportation.  
• 
Please explain the substitutability of domestic fresh, domestic frozen and imported pork in 
smallgoods production. 
• 
Please explain whether you have observed any changes to the price or supply of imported 
pork as a result of African Swine Fever in the past three years. In your response, please 
comment on whether you consider the situation is likely to change, and in what timeframe.  
• 
Please explain whether smallgoods producers know which pig producer their domestic pork 
comes from when purchasing from a wholesaler. 
Pork Wholesalers 
• 
Do you think frustration or foreclosure of access to fresh pork would be an issue for you 
post-acquisition? If so, please provide details about your concerns. 
Issues unlikely to raise concerns: Lessening of competition due 
to overlap 
84. 
The ACCC has considered the horizontal competitive effects at different functional levels 
of the pork supply chain where JBS and Rivalea overlap. Set out below are the specific 
overlaps that the ACCC considers are unlikely to raise concerns post-acquisition.  
Acquisition of slaughter weight pigs 
85. 
JBS and Rivalea are not significant acquirers of slaughter weight pigs. The largest 
acquirers of slaughter weight pigs are major retailers like Coles and Woolworths, followed 
by large wholesalers, including V&V and BE Campbell. Other acquirers of slaughter 
weight pigs include smaller wholesalers and retailers, butchers, food-service distributors, 
and food manufacturers. 
86. 
As such, the ACCC is of the view that the overlap in the market for the acquisition of 
slaughter weight pigs is unlikely to raise competition concerns. 
Supply of service kills and/or pork processing service to pig producers  
87. 
As mentioned, the abattoirs relevant to this proposed acquisition are all export accredited 
and supply both service kills and pork processing on site.  
88. 
Although it is possible to travel longer distances, many pig producers have indicated that 
they would prefer to transport live pigs within 350km (or 4 hour drive) from farm to abattoir 
(discussed in paragraph 25 above). Most market participants cited proximity of the abattoir 
to farms as the primary factor in selecting an abattoir for service kills. 
89. 
On that basis, the ACCC considers that JBS’ Port Wakefield (SA) facility does not 
compete closely with, and is not a close substitute to, Rivalea’s DVP (VIC) facility for pig 
producers in the provision of service kills and pork processing, as the two facilities are 
over 800km (or more than 9 hours’ drive) apart. 
90. 
While the aggregation of service kills, and separately pork processing, is unlikely to raise 
concerns for pig producer customers, who are limited in their geographic market by the 
location of their farms, it is still potentially a concern for other types of customers. The 
potential impact on competition involving these non-pig producer customers is discussed 
in detail above under the second issue that may raise concern. 


JBS – proposed acquisition of Rivalea 
 
Page 19 of 20 
Wholesale supply of fresh pork 
91. 
While both JBS and Rivalea supply fresh pork, there are a number of alternative 
wholesale and retail suppliers of fresh pork, including BE Campbell, V&V Meats, 
Somerville Retail Services, Wilmeat and the major supermarkets. Additionally, the 
potential for fresh pork to be transported greater distances than live pigs suggests a 
broader geographic market. 
92. 
The ACCC’s view is that JBS is likely to be constrained by a number of alternative 
wholesale and retail suppliers of fresh pork post-acquisition. However, there may be flow 
on implications for the wholesale supply of fresh pork if access to fresh pork was restricted 
or the cost was increased at the processing level (vertical effects – see second issue that 
may raise concern above). 
Issue unlikely to raise concerns: Bundling of other meats/meat 
products 
93. 
The ACCC has considered the potential conglomerate (bundling) effects of the proposed 
acquisition, given the overlap in JBS and Rivalea’s wholesale customers (e.g. 
supermarkets acquiring smallgoods from JBS and fresh pork from Rivalea). 
94. 
Concerns have been raised that post-acquisition, JBS could leverage its position as the 
largest domestic smallgoods supplier to increase its wholesale supply of fresh pork 
products through bundling and thereby foreclose rival fresh pork wholesale suppliers from 
competing on their merits. For example, JBS could have an advantage in negotiating 
supply contracts with wholesale customers on the condition that all meat purchases would 
be conducted through a single sales contract. 
95. 
The ACCC understands that JBS does not supply any “must have” items which do not 
have close alternatives. Market participants generally consider that they have other 
options to source products. Additionally, the ACCC understands that the usual practice for 
wholesale customers is to procure protein and/or smallgoods on an individual product 
basis and that wholesale customers (especially supermarkets) have considerable 
bargaining power when negotiating with suppliers. The ACCC’s view is that the proposed 
acquisition would not provide JBS with a substantial increase in bargaining power with its 
customers. Instead, it is likely that JBS would continue to be constrained by the bargaining 
power of its customers post-acquisition and therefore unlikely to change the current 
procurement processes and/or supply in bundles. The ACCC invites any comments or 
additional information on this issue, in particular from other wholesale suppliers and 
retailers.  
 ACCC's future steps 
96. 
As noted above, the ACCC invites submissions from market participants on each of the 
issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that may be relevant 
to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. Submissions should be emailed to 
mergers@accc.gov.au by no later than 30 September 2021. 
97. 
The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions invited by this 
Statement of Issues. 
 


JBS – proposed acquisition of Rivalea 
 
Page 20 of 20 
98. 
The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 9 December 2021. However the 
anticipated timeline may change in line with the Informal Merger Review Process 
Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment explaining the ACCC's final view may be 
published following the ACCC's public announcement. 
