Public Competition Assessment
8 November 2007
Rio Tinto plc - proposed acquisition of Alcan Inc
Introduction
1.
On 3 October 2007, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission
(ACCC) announced that it would not intervene in the proposed acquisition of
Alcan Inc by Rio Tinto plc (the Proposed Acquisition). The ACCC was of the
view that the Proposed Acquisition would be unlikely to have the effect of
substantially lessening competition in a market in contravention of section 50 of
the Trade Practices Act 1974 (the Act).
2.
The ACCC formed its view on the basis of the information provided by the
merger parties and information arising from its market inquiries. This Public
Competition Assessment outlines the basis on which the ACCC reached its
decision on the Proposed Acquisition, subject to confidentiality considerations.
Public Competition Assessment
3.
To provide an enhanced level of transparency and procedural fairness in its
decision making process, the ACCC issues a Public Competition Assessment for
all transaction proposals where:
a merger is opposed;
a merger is subject to enforceable undertakings;
the merger parties seek such disclosure; or
a merger is approved but raises important issues that the ACCC considers
should be made public.
4.
This Public Competition Assessment has been issued because Rio Tinto plc’s
proposed acquisition of Alcan Inc is considered to raise issues of interest to the
public.
5.
By issuing Public Competition Assessments, the ACCC aims to provide the
public with a better understanding of the ACCC's analysis of various markets and
the associated merger and competition issues. It also alerts the public to the
circumstances where the ACCC’s assessment of the competition conditions in
particular markets is changing, or likely to change, because of developments.


Rio Tinto plc - proposed acquisition of Alcan Inc
-2-
6.
Each Public Competition Assessment is specific to the particular transaction
under review by the ACCC. While some transaction proposals may involve the
same or related markets, it should not be assumed that the analysis and decision
outlined in one Public Competition Assessment will be conclusive of the ACCC’s
view in respect of other transaction proposals, as each matter will be considered
on its own merits.
7.
Many of the ACCC’s decisions will involve consideration of both non-
confidential and confidential information provided by the merger parties and
market participants. In order to maintain the confidentiality of particular
information, Public Competition Assessments do not contain any confidential
information or its sources. While the ACCC aims to provide an appropriately
detailed explanation of the basis for its decision, maintaining confidentiality will
be the ACCC's paramount concern. Accordingly, a Public Competition
Assessment may not definitively explain the analysis of all issues.
The parties
The acquirer - Rio Tinto
8.
Rio Tinto plc (Rio Tinto) is an international mining group with a business in
finding, mining and processing mineral resources. These include iron ore, copper,
coal, aluminium, industrial minerals (borax, titanium, dioxide, salt), diamonds,
gold and uranium. The relevant area of Rio Tinto’s business for the purposes of
the present matter is aluminium production.
9.
Rio Tinto’s aluminium assets located in Australia include:
a bauxite mine (Weipa) located on the western coast of Cape York
Peninsula in Queensland. Rio Tinto also holds interests in undeveloped
bauxite deposits in Western Australia;
the Yarwun refinery at Gladstone in Queensland, and a 38.6% interest in the
Queensland Alumina Limited (QAL) refinery, also in Gladstone; and
an aluminium smelter at Bell Bay, Tasmania, and interests (around 59%) in
the Boyne Island smelter in Queensland (also at Gladstone).
The target - Alcan
10.
Alcan Inc (Alcan) is a global producer of bauxite, alumina and aluminium. Other
activities include the production of specialty alumina, manufacturing of
aluminium products, recycling and power generation.
11.
Alcan has interests in 6 bauxite mines and deposits, 5 alumina refineries and 21
smelters globally. Its interests in Australia include:
a bauxite mine and alumina refinery at Gove in the Northern Territory;
a bauxite mining lease on the Cape York Peninsula in Queensland;
a 41.4% interest in the QAL refinery; and
a 51.5% interest in the Tomago aluminium smelter in New South Wales.


Rio Tinto plc - proposed acquisition of Alcan Inc
-3-
Other industry participants
12.
Other participants involved in the production of alumina and aluminium in
Australia include:
Alcoa (and related entities), which either owns or has interests in:
–
the Huntly and Willowdale bauxite mines in Western Australia;
–
the Kwinana, Pinjarra and Wagerup refineries in Western Australia; and
–
the Point Henry and Portland smelters in Victoria.
Worsley Alumina, a joint venture between BHP Billiton, Japan Alumina
Associates (Australia) Pty Ltd and Sojitz Alumina Pty Ltd, which operates
the Boddington mine and associated alumina refinery and port facilities in
Western Australia.
Norsk Hydro, a Norwegian company that in Australia operates the Kurri
Kurri smelter in the Hunter region of New South Wales and owns an interest
in the Tomago smelter.
Gove Aluminium Finance, controlled by CSR, which participates in
aluminium smelting via an interest in the Tomago smelter in New South
Wales.
UC Rusal, a Russian aluminium and alumina company which participates in
alumina refining in Australia through its 20% share of QAL.
A number of minority shareholders in Australian smelters, including CITIC,
Marubeni, YKK Aluminium, Sumitomo and Ryowa.
The proposed transaction
13.
Rio Tinto made an all cash offer of US$101 per common share for all of the
outstanding shares in Alcan, valuing Alcan at US$38.1 billion. The offer was
recommended by the Alcan board.
Areas of overlap
14.
The areas of overlap between the two parties are in relation to bauxite mining,
alumina refining and aluminium smelting. The ACCC did not consider there to be
an overlap in downstream production of aluminium products.


Rio Tinto plc - proposed acquisition of Alcan Inc
-4-
Timing
The following table outlines the timeline of key events in this matter.
Date
Event
19-Jul-2007
06-Aug-2007
12-Sep-2007
03-Oct-2007
ACCC commenced review under the Merger Review Process Guidelines.
Closing date for submissions from interested parties.
ACCC requested further information from Rio Tinto in relation
to the supply of bauxite and alumina.
ACCC announced it would not oppose the Proposed Acquisition.
Market inquiries
15.
The ACCC conducted market inquiries with a range of industry participants,
including competitors, customers, industry bodies, other regulatory agencies
(including international agencies) and other interested parties.
Market definition
16.
In this matter the ACCC considered that the most relevant markets for the
competition assessment were:
Regional markets for the supply of bauxite;
A national market for the supply of smelter-grade alumina; and
National markets for the supply of aluminium in various forms.
Functional dimension of the markets
17.
Production of aluminium essentially involves three steps:
first, bauxite is mined and transported to a refinery;
at the refinery, the bauxite is refined into alumina, which is then transported
to a smelter;
at the smelter, the alumina is smelted into primary aluminium.
18.
The ACCC noted that the aluminium industry exhibits a high degree of vertical
integration, both in terms of common ownership and often actual physical
integration of facilities (often dedicated facilities, such as conveyor belts, link
bauxite mines to refineries or link refineries to smelters).
19.
The ACCC also had regard to the presence of several non-integrated entities,
minority shareholders and the significant trade in bauxite, alumina and
aluminium between these entities. Given this, the ACCC considered it was
appropriate in this matter to distinguish functionally separate markets for:
the supply of bauxite;


Rio Tinto plc - proposed acquisition of Alcan Inc
-5-
the supply of alumina; and
the supply of aluminium.
Geographic dimension of alumina market
20.
In relation to alumina, the ACCC first considered whether the geographic scope
of the market should be restricted to the east-coast of Australia. To assess
whether west-coast supplies of alumina should be included in the market, the
ACCC assessed whether alumina supplied from the west-coast would act as an
effective alternative source of supply for east-coast alumina customers. The
ACCC noted that significant quantities of alumina are already moved from the
west-coast to the east-coast, particularly from Alcoa’s Western Australian
refineries to its Victorian smelter interests. After assessing information from
market participants in relation to the cost of transporting alumina from the west-
coast to east-coast customers, compared to the cost of transporting from east-
coast refineries to east-coast smelters,1 the ACCC considered that the geographic
market for alumina extended to include all of Australia.
21.
The ACCC then considered whether the alumina market was wider than a
national market. In particular, the ACCC noted that some decisions by overseas
competition agencies refer to a global market. Furthermore, the ACCC had
regard to the pricing of alumina, which is often priced by reference to the London
Metals Exchange (LME) price for aluminium.
22.
Despite this, the ACCC considered that industry conditions in overseas
jurisdictions are different to those in Australia. From the perspective of
Australian customers for alumina, the competitive choices are likely to come
from Australia. This is different to the perspective that overseas customers may
have, for whom the competitive choices might involve potential supply from
many different parts of the world.
23.
The fact that Australia is a significant exporter of alumina was also critical to the
ACCC’s assessment. The ACCC considered that theoretically, in export
industries, if there are many suppliers in Australia, then domestic customers will
most likely enjoy the benefit of export parity pricing. That is, Australian alumina
producers will sell domestically at a price equivalent to what they could receive
by exporting. Therefore the transport costs for exporting will be a relevant
consideration in analysing pricing for domestic customers.
24.
In contrast, if there is a single supplier in Australia, that supplier would be likely
to price at import parity; that is, they will sell domestically at just below the price
that customers would pay to import (which includes the transport costs of
importation).
25.
In analysing the Proposed Acquisition the ACCC did not conclude that there was
currently export parity pricing, but did consider that current domestic prices are
below the relevant import parity prices.
1
The ACCC also had regard to the possibility that approaches to domestic pricing could be different
on the east-coast compared to the west-coast, due to different costs of exporting (as well as due to
the different costs of domestic transportation).


Rio Tinto plc - proposed acquisition of Alcan Inc
-6-
26.
The “SSNIP” test is sometimes used by the ACCC to assist analysis of the
appropriate market definition. The test works by considering a hypothetical
monopolist in a geographic area and then analysing whether the hypothetical
monopolist could profitably make a small but significant non-transitory increase
in price (a “SSNIP”). When applying the “SSNIP” test to determine whether the
geographic market should be extended beyond Australia, the ACCC considered
that a hypothetical single domestic producer would be able to profitably impose a
small but significant non-transitory price increase above the current price. That
is, because the hypothetical single domestic producer would not lose many
customers after imposing the price increase, due to the gap between the current
price and import parity prices. Therefore, the ACCC considered that the relevant
market was restricted just to Australia. The ACCC took into consideration
submissions which argued that the costs of exporting and importing have recently
risen significantly due to very high demand for shipping capacity throughout the
world.
Geographic dimension of aluminium market
27.
The ACCC applied the same approach to aluminium that it applied to alumina.
As with alumina, aluminium is an export-oriented industry, but with a significant
number of domestic customers.
28.
The ACCC noted that transport costs are lower for aluminium as a percentage of
the value of the product, due the higher value of aluminium compared to alumina.
Despite this, the ACCC considered that there is a domestic market for the supply
of aluminium.
29.
Even though the ACCC considered there to be a domestic market, in its
competition assessment the ACCC had significant regard to the possibility of
imports acting as an upper-constraint on domestic pricing.
Product dimension of alumina market
30.
The ACCC noted the distinction between smelter (or metallurgical) grade
alumina and chemical-grade alumina, and the different uses for each. Without
taking a conclusive view, the ACCC considered that there were likely to be
separate markets for smelter-grade alumina and chemical-grade alumina. The
ACCC did not consider it necessary to reach a conclusive view on this issue for
this matter, as market participants did not consider there to be any competition
concerns in relation to chemical-grade alumina.
Product dimension of aluminium market
31.
The ACCC noted that aluminium produced at smelters is referred to as ‘primary
aluminium,’ and at the end of the smelting process it is cast into a particular form.
Common forms of primary aluminium are:
Ingot;


Rio Tinto plc - proposed acquisition of Alcan Inc
-7-
Billet (also know as extrusion billet or log);
Slab; and
T-bar.
32. The ACCC noted the distinction between aluminium used for ‘remelt’ purposes
(where the aluminium is melted and then cast into new forms), such as ingot and T-
bar, and aluminium used for ‘extrusion’ purposes (where the aluminium is heated to
a high temperature and then ‘shaped’ into new forms), such as extrusion billet.
33. Market inquiries indicated that there is little demand-side substitutability between
aluminium used for remelt purposes and aluminium used for extrusion purposes.
The ACCC did note the possibility that customers may invest in facilities to cast
aluminium in the form required, but this possibility was considered uneconomic for
the majority of customers. On the supply-side, the ACCC investigated the costs of
switching capacity between the different forms of primary aluminium. Market
inquiries indicated that the costs of switching were high and would involve sunk-
investment in significant new capital equipment. Therefore the ACCC considered
that supply-side substitution was limited.
34. The ACCC also had regard to whether primary and secondary aluminium (e.g.,
recycled aluminium) were in the same market. Market inquiries indicated that in
some circumstances secondary aluminium was substitutable with primary
aluminium, such as where it was of the same alloy or purity. However, for many
uses there is no demand-side substitutability, and therefore the ACCC considered it
unlikely that secondary aluminium would provide a significant constraint in the
market. On the supply-side, secondary aluminium producers cannot easily switch
to becoming primary aluminium producers, as it would involve very significant
investment in a smelter.
35. The ACCC also considered whether different alloys or purities of aluminium were
substitutable. Market inquiries indicated that differing alloys and purities had a
reasonably high degree of supply-side substitutability (despite limited demand-side
substitutability), suggesting that they should be considered to be in the same
market. However, the ACCC recognised that for some types of aluminium there
may be limited supply-side substitutability, such as aluminium with very high
purity levels or with other very specialised attributes. This is because many
smelters are not capable of producing such aluminium.
36. The ACCC took the view that there were likely to be separate markets for primary
aluminium used for remelt purposes and primary aluminium used for extrusion
purposes. It was not necessary for the ACCC to form a view in relation to whether
there are different product markets for certain alloys and purities of aluminium, as
the ACCC did not consider that the analysis would have altered the competition
assessment.


Rio Tinto plc - proposed acquisition of Alcan Inc
-8-
Geographic and product dimension of bauxite market
37.
The ACCC noted that bauxite is not fungible, as bauxites obtained from different
locations exhibit different properties. Consequently refineries are tailored to
process bauxite from a particular region so as to achieve the most efficient
production of alumina. These considerations were relevant to the product and
geographic dimension of the bauxite markets.
38.
The ACCC also noted that some of the operating bauxite mines in Australia are
physically integrated with a refinery via dedicated infrastructure, thus limiting the
ability to sell bauxite to a different purchaser for processing in a different
refinery. In particular, the ACCC took into consideration that existing Western
Australian bauxite mines are not located on the coast, thereby limiting the ability
to transport bauxite out of Western Australia.
39.
Market inquiries also indicated that the relatively low value of bauxite made it
generally uneconomic to transport it over long distances. As indicated, transport
of bauxite from mine to refinery is often achieved via dedicated infrastructure,
such as a conveyor belt or a dedicated shipping fleet, as a method of lowering
transport costs.
40.
Each of these factors indicated limited substitutability between bauxite from
different geographic regions, suggesting regional markets for the supply of
bauxite. Of particular relevance to consideration of the Proposed Acquisition was
the Queensland bauxite market.
Competition Analysis
Bauxite
41.
Operating bauxite mines in Australia are located in Western Australia, the
Northern Territory and on the Cape York Peninsula. Certain companies also hold
mining leases over areas of land that may be developed into mines.
42.
As discussed above, the ACCC noted that bauxite obtained from different
locations exhibits different properties, and that these properties impact upon the
refining process. Refineries are typically tailored to process bauxite from a
particular location so as to maximise the efficient production of alumina. Market
inquiries indicated that refineries can sometimes be changed so as to be tailored
to a different bauxite, but often this will involve significant sunk investment and
it is not always possible. Key properties of bauxite include silica levels, bauxite
grade, alumina content and the handling properties. Differences in these
properties occur within bauxite obtained from different locations around the
world, from different locations within Australia and from different locations
within a region.


Rio Tinto plc - proposed acquisition of Alcan Inc
-9-
43.
The Proposed Acquisition results in an aggregation of bauxite interests on the
Cape York Peninsula in Queensland. That is, Rio Tinto’s existing Weipa bauxite
mine is adjacent to a mining lease held by Alcan (the Ely/Ducie-Wenlock/
Dulhunty lease). The ACCC considered the possibility that the Proposed
Acquisition would remove a potential supplier of bauxite in the Queensland
bauxite market.
44.
The ACCC had regard to the barriers to entry involved in establishing a bauxite
mine. Appropriate sites for a bauxite mine are clearly limited. Further,
establishing a mine involves significant infrastructure costs and regulatory
approvals. In particular, the ACCC noted that grants of mining leases are often
made subject to requirements for downstream investment; for example, bauxite
mining leases granted by the Queensland Government often contain requirements
for the lessee to build a refinery and process a quantity of the bauxite within the
State.
45.
The ACCC noted that Chinese aluminium company Chalco is conducting a
feasibility study of the Aurukun lease on the Cape York Peninsula in Queensland,
and Cape Alumina holds exploration permits or pending applications over land in
Cape York.
46.
The ACCC also had regard to the possibility of bauxite imports. Bauxite is
prevalent in a number of locations around the world, but it is a relatively low
value product. Transport costs therefore represent a very high percentage of the
bauxite’s value, thus limiting the incentives to transport it over long distances
(such as from Africa or South America to Australia). Where bauxite must be
transported, there is a preference for dedicated or long term arrangements to
minimise transportation cost.
47.
Transport costs from countries closer to Australia – such as Indonesia or India –
are lower, though other factors may limit the viability of importing bauxite.
These factors include the different bauxite properties, the difficulty in obtaining a
large long-term contract, and the government or legal requirements of the
exporting country (for example, only a small percentage of the bauxite may be
available for export as the country may require the majority to be refined
domestically). The ACCC also noted that in a number of cases bauxite mines in
countries near to Australia were at early stages of development.
48.
The ACCC investigated the competitive tension that Alcan’s Ely/Ducie-Wenlock/
Dulhunty lease would be likely to impose in the future with and without the
Proposed Acquisition. The ACCC had regard to the existence of a bauxite
mining exchange agreement with Rio Tinto, which involves Rio Tinto mining
part of the lease on Alcan’s behalf. The ACCC also had regard to Alcan’s own
requirements for bauxite into the future, and how this would affect its incentives
to sell bauxite, as well as the role of Alcan’s Gove refinery and its associated
bauxite mine.
49.
Taking all the relevant factors into account, the ACCC considered that the
proposed acquisition would be unlikely to substantially lessen competition in the
supply of bauxite in Queensland or any other regional bauxite market.


Rio Tinto plc - proposed acquisition of Alcan Inc
-10-
Alumina
50. The ownership and location of alumina refineries in Australia (pre-merger) was as
follows:
Refinery
Owner
Location
Yarwun
Rio Tinto
Gladstone, Queensland
QAL
Rio Tinto, Alcan, Rusal
Gladstone, Queensland
Gove
Alcan
Gove, Northern Territory
Worsley
BHP, Japan Alumina
Associates, Sojitz
15km west of Collie,
Western Australia
Kwinana
Alcoa
Kwinana, Western
Australia
Pinjarra
Alcoa
Pinjarra, Western Australia
Wagerup
Alcoa
Wagerup, Western
Australia
51. In assessing competition issues in alumina, the ACCC had regard to the fact that a
number of the refineries within Australia are joint venture arrangements involving
multiple shareholders. These refineries are typically operated on a tolling basis
whereby the shareholders are entitled to a percentage of the alumina produced in
accordance with their financial investment.
52. The Proposed Acquisition results in consolidation of refinery ownership, with Rio
Tinto acquiring Alcan’s stake in the QAL refinery and Alcan’s Gove refinery in the
Northern Territory. The only east-coast alumina supplier not part of the merged
entity will be Rusal, which has a 20% stake in QAL.
53. The ACCC noted the high degree of vertical integration between alumina refineries
and aluminium smelters, and also the existence of long term contracts for the
supply of alumina between some non-integrated purchasers and suppliers.
However, the ACCC noted that there is still a market for alumina in Australia, since
some alumina customers (particularly stakeholders in smelters) have continuing
alumina requirements.
54. Market inquiries indicated that long term contracts often have regular periods of
pricing review, such that prices are not necessarily fixed for the entire term of the
contract. This means that even those customers with long term contracts can be
adversely affected by a reduction in competition. However, the ACCC noted that
post-merger there would remain a number of suitable benchmarks, both within
Australia and internationally, for alumina pricing.
55. The ACCC focussed its competition analysis on the effects on east-coast alumina
customers. The ACCC had regard to:
The cost of transporting alumina from west-coast producers to east-coast
customers and the likelihood of west-coast producers supplying east-coast
customers;
The potential for Rusal to supply domestic customers with alumina;


Rio Tinto plc - proposed acquisition of Alcan Inc
-11-
The potential for alumina customers to enter into swap arrangements to obtain
alumina, thereby lowering transport costs;
The possibility of trading companies supplying east-coast alumina customers;
and
The likelihood of Australian alumina producers diverting export-bound alumina
into the domestic market, and the role of existing long-term export contracts.
56. Having regard to all of these factors, and the submissions from market participants,
the ACCC concluded that the Proposed Acquisition is unlikely to lead to a
substantial lessening of competition in the national market for alumina.
Aluminium
57. In assessing competition issues in aluminium, the ACCC had regard to the fact that
a number of the smelters within Australia are joint venture arrangements involving
multiple shareholders. These smelters are often operated on a tolling basis whereby
the shareholders are entitled to a percentage of the aluminium produced in
accordance with their financial investment.
58. The ACCC noted that aluminium is produced in different forms (such as ingot,
billet, rolling slab) and that each Australian smelter produces output of differing
forms.
59. Market inquiries indicated that the Proposed Acquisition would lead to increased
concentration, particularly among suppliers of extrusion billet. The Australian
market for the supply of extrusion billet was a focus of the ACCC investigation,
since market inquiries indicated that there was less concern in relation to other
forms of primary aluminium.
60. The ACCC noted that Australia is a significant exporter of aluminium, with around
70% of aluminium produced exported, and considered that diversion of some of this
exported aluminium into the domestic market for extrusion billet could act as a
constraint on price rises.
61. The ACCC noted that there are very high barriers to entry to establishing a new
aluminium smelter, including significant sunk costs and access to a reliable long
term supply of electricity and alumina.
62. The ACCC noted that imports are currently rare due to Australia’s position as an
exporter. However, the ACCC considered that imports would place a cap on any
rises in the price of aluminium in Australia. The cost of transportation was
investigated in detail by the ACCC, and particular regard was had to the fact that
transporting aluminium in containers is extremely common world-wide and,
because aluminium is a quite valuable product, the costs of transportation as a
proportion of the value of the product are reasonably low.


Rio Tinto plc - proposed acquisition of Alcan Inc
-12-
63. Overall, the ACCC considered that the potential for other market players to increase
supplies into the domestic market, along with the ultimate constraint of imports,
would provide a constraint on the merged entity such that the Proposed Acquisition
is unlikely to lead to a substantial lessening of competition in any primary
aluminium markets.
Effect on the World Price for Aluminium and Alumina
64.
The price of aluminium (and to a lessor extent alumina) is typically set by
reference to the LME. Generally pricing formulas in contracts are set at the LME
plus or minus various adjustments.
65.
The above discussion relating to aluminium and alumina focussed on the possible
effect of the merger on the adjustments for Australian customers (i.e. would the
merged-entity increase the adjustment premiums or reduce adjustment discounts
post-acquisition). However, the ACCC also considered whether the Proposed
Acquisition would increase the underlying LME price that forms the basis of
most supply contracts for aluminium (and to a lesser extent alumina). In
particular, the ACCC noted that both Rio Tinto and Alcan have significant assets
in the aluminium supply chain throughout the world. Overseas
competition/antitrust regulators also considered this equivalent issue.
66.
Due to the existence of a significant number of other large world-wide players in
aluminium and alumina, the ACCC did not consider it likely that the Proposed
Acquisition would increase the LME price. In particular, the ACCC noted
competitive pressure provided by companies such as Rusal and Alcoa, and by
Chinese producers.
Conclusion
67.
On the basis of all of the above factors, the ACCC formed the view that the
proposed acquisition of Alcan by Rio Tinto would not be likely to result in a
substantial lessening of competition in contravention of section 50 of the Act in:
Regional markets for the supply of bauxite;
A national market for the supply of smelter-grade alumina; or
National markets for the supply of aluminium in various forms.
