 
 
 
8 March 2012 
 
Statement of Issues — ALH Group Pty Ltd (75 per 
cent owned by Woolworths Limited) - proposed 
acquisition of hotels and takeaway liquor stores in 
NSW 
1. 
Outlined below is the Statement of Issues released by the Australian Competition 
and Consumer Commission (ACCC) in relation to the proposed acquisition of 
various hotels and takeaway liquor stores in NSW by ALH Group Pty Ltd (ALH) 
(proposed acquisitions). ALH is 75 per cent owned by Woolworths Limited 
(Woolworths). 
2. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well 
as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
3. 
In line with the ACCC’s Merger Review Process Guidelines (available on the 
ACCC’s website at www.accc.gov.au) the ACCC has established a secondary 
timeline for further consideration of the issues. The ACCC anticipates completing 
further market inquiries by 22 March 2012 and anticipates making a final 
decision on 5 April 2012. However, the anticipated timeline can change in line 
with the Merger Review Process Guidelines. To keep abreast of possible changes 
in relation to timing and to find relevant documents, market participants should 
visit the Mergers Register on the ACCC's website at 
www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
4. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 
Background 
5. 
The ACCC commenced an informal review into these proposed acquisitions on 
22 December 2011. 


ALH Group Pty Ltd (75 per cent owned by Woolworths Limited) - proposed 
acquisition of Hotels and takeaway liquor stores in NSW 
 
2
The parties 
Acquirers - ALH Group Pty Ltd (75 per cent owned by Woolworths Limited)  
6. 
ALH is owned by Woolworths (75 per cent) and the Bruce Mathieson Group (25 
per cent).  
7. 
ALH owns and operates 294 hotels and approximately 12,000 gaming machines 
nationally. ALH currently operates 27 hotels and around 700 gaming machines in 
NSW. 
8. 
Woolworths is currently the largest liquor retailing group in Australia with over 
1100 retail stores and around 37 per cent of national liquor sales. Woolworths 
operates the takeaway liquor brands Dan Murphy’s, BWS and Woolworths 
Liquor. 
9. 
ALH/Woolworths have submitted to the ACCC that the hotels in the ALH group 
are managed separately from other Woolworths liquor outlets. However, the 
ACCC understands that, where an ALH group hotel operates a bottleshop, the 
bottleshop is branded as a BWS or Dan Murphy’s and operates in accordance 
with the policies of the BWS and Dan Murphy’s brands. 
10. 
The ACCC considers that because Woolworths has effective control of ALH 
through its 75 per cent holding in the group and retains ownership and control of 
the retail liquor brands under which ALH bottleshops are operated, such 
bottleshops should be considered as part of the Woolworths liquor group for the 
purposes of assessing the competitive effects of the proposed acquisitions. 
Targets - Hotels and takeaway liquor stores in NSW 
11. 
The three vendors for the relevant transactions are: 
i. 
The Laundy Hotel Group 
The Laundy Hotel Group (LHG) is a family owned and operated business and 
is currently the largest independently owned hotel chain in NSW. Most of its 
hotels are located in the Sydney metropolitan area. LHG does not operate any 
hotels in other states.  
LHG has indicated to the ACCC that, following the proposed acquisitions, it 
would continue to own and operate 12 hotels not subject to this transaction.  
ii. 
The Waugh Hotel Group 
The Waugh Group is a privately held hotel group, operated by brothers 
Ashton and Mitchell Waugh. The Waugh group has interests in a number of 
hotel businesses in Sydney.  
The Waugh Group has advised the ACCC that it would continue to hold an 
interest in a number of hotels following the proposed acquisitions. 
 


ALH Group Pty Ltd (75 per cent owned by Woolworths Limited) - proposed 
acquisition of Hotels and takeaway liquor stores in NSW 
 
3
iii. 
The De Angelis Hotel Group 
The De Angelis Group is a family owned and operated business, with interests 
in a number of hotels not subject to the transactions which it would continue 
to hold post acquisition. 
The proposed acquisitions 
12. 
ALH proposes to acquire a total of 31 hotel licences and one takeaway packaged 
liquor licence in NSW from the three vendors. 
13. 
The relevant proposed transactions are: 
i. 
LHG 
ALH proposes to acquire the businesses and associated assets of 24 hotels and 
one takeaway packaged liquor licence from LHG.  
Under the proposed sale agreement with ALH, LHG would retain the freehold 
interests in the hotels and takeaway liquor licence. ALH would then enter into 
long term leases with LHG in respect of the freehold for the 24 hotels and one 
takeaway liquor outlet.  
In a related transaction, LHG will also purchase the freehold property for five 
hotels from the Waugh group and enter long term lease agreements with ALH 
for the use of the freehold. As such, post acquisition LHG will be the lessor of 
29 hotels and one takeaway liquor outlet to ALH. 
ii. 
The Waugh Hotel Group 
This proposed transaction is a joint venture between LHG and ALH for the 
acquisition of five hotels from the Waugh Hotel Group.  
As detailed above, under the proposed sale agreements LHG would acquire 
the freehold property for five hotels from the Waugh Group while ALH would 
acquire the businesses and associated assets of those hotels. Post-acquisition, 
ALH would then enter into a long term lease arrangement with LHG for the 
use of the freehold.  
iii. 
The De Angelis Hotel Group 
ALH proposes to acquire the businesses and associated assets of two hotels 
from this group. The De Angelis group would retain the freehold to the land 
for both hotels and ALH would enter into long term lease agreements with the 
De Angelis group in respect of the freehold.  
14. 
A full list of licences subject to the proposed acquisitions is contained at 
Attachment A. 
 


ALH Group Pty Ltd (75 per cent owned by Woolworths Limited) - proposed 
acquisition of Hotels and takeaway liquor stores in NSW 
 
4
Industry background 
Retail sale of packaged liquor for off-site consumption 
15. 
Woolworths and Wesfarmers are the largest retailers of packaged liquor in 
Australia with a combined national sales share of around 58 per cent in 2011, 
made up of Woolworths with 37 per cent and Wesfarmers with 21 per cent.  
16. 
Independently owned bottleshops, some of which are members of buying/banner 
groups, make up the rest of the sales share in the industry. Independents often 
retail packaged liquor in association with marketing banner groups such as 
Cellarbrations, Liquorstax and Thirsty Camel and achieve purchasing scale 
through participating in buying groups.  
Retail sale of liquor for on-site consumption, entertainment and gaming 
17. 
In Australia the hotel industry is highly fragmented with the largest shares of 
national sales controlled by ALH with 10 per cent, Wesfarmers with 3.8 per cent, 
National Leisure and Gaming with 1.5 per cent and the Independent Pub Group 
with 1 per cent. In NSW, ALH currently holds approximately 1.3 per cent of 
hotel licences and this would increase to approximately 3 per cent following the 
proposed acquisitions.  
18. 
LHG is currently the largest independent hotel operator in NSW with 1.86 per 
cent of hotel licences in the state. It is closely followed by a number of other 
operators in NSW including National Leisure and Gaming (1.5 per cent), the 
Waugh Hotel Group (0.9 per cent) and the De Angelis Group (0.39 per cent). 
19. 
In NSW, hotels generate a significant proportion of their revenue from electronic 
gaming machines and, as such, ownership of these machines is considered 
important to the viability and competitiveness of hotels in the state. There are 
currently around 96,000 electronic gaming machine licences in NSW of which 
around 23,000 are held by hotels, with the remainder controlled by clubs and 
casinos. ALH/Woolworths currently owns around 700 gaming machines and as a 
result of these acquisitions will acquire around a further 700 machines. 
Areas of Overlap 
20. 
The ACCC considers that the following areas of overlap exist between 
ALH/Woolworths and the relevant vendors: 
i. 
ALH/Woolworths, LHG, the Waugh Group and the De Angelis Group 
compete for the retail sale of packaged liquor for off-site consumption at the 
local level and at a broader state level (through state-based retail pricing for 
instance).  
ii. 
ALH/Woolworths, LHG, the Waugh Group and the De Angelis Group 
compete in various local areas for the sale of liquor for on-site consumption, 
entertainment and gaming from hotels; and 


ALH Group Pty Ltd (75 per cent owned by Woolworths Limited) - proposed 
acquisition of Hotels and takeaway liquor stores in NSW 
 
5
iii. 
ALH/Woolworths, LHG, the Waugh Group and the De Angelis Group 
compete to acquire liquor from wholesale suppliers in NSW. 
Market inquiries 
21. 
On 22 December 2011 the ACCC commenced market inquiries regarding the 
proposed acquisitions.  
22. 
As part of this process, the ACCC contacted market participants including more 
than 50 packaged liquor retailers and hotels in NSW and a number of competing 
liquor banner groups and wholesale suppliers of liquor. 
Market definition 
23. 
Section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (CCA) prohibits mergers 
or acquisitions that would have the effect or be likely to have the effect of 
substantially lessening competition in a market. In assessing a proposed 
acquisition pursuant to section 50 of the CCA, the ACCC considers the 
competitive impact of the transaction in the context of the market/s relevant to the 
proposed acquisition. 
Retail markets for the sale of packaged liquor for off-site consumption 
24. 
The ACCC considers that in retail markets involving chains, competition may 
occur at both the broader national or state level and at the local level. While all 
liquor retailers compete to attract customers from other retailers located in the 
same neighbourhood, many large retailers (such as ALH/Woolworths) 
standardise many elements of their retail offers (such as promotional pricing) 
across all stores within a state. 
25. 
The ACCC considers local retail markets and a NSW retail market are both 
relevant to its assessment of the proposed acquisitions. 
26. 
When assessing local retail markets, the ACCC aims to identify the competitive 
constraints on the merged firm’s retail offers at a store level. In assessing the 
NSW retail market, the ACCC aims to identify the competitive constraints on the 
merged firm in determining its state-wide retail offers (such as state prices). 
27. 
In undertaking its review of the proposed acquisition, the ACCC sought 
information from the industry on the geographic scope of both the broader market 
and local markets for the sale of packaged liquor for off-site consumption.  
28. 
In regards to the broader market, the ACCC notes that major chains including the 
Woolworths brands (Woolworths Liquor, Dan Murphy’s and BWS); the 
Wesfarmers brands (Liquorland, 1st Choice and Vintage Cellars); and 
independent brands such as IGA and Cellarbrations, standardise major elements 
of their retail offers across all stores in NSW, for example, through state-wide 
promotions. The ACCC considers the relevant issue for defining the broader 
market is to identify the constraints on the merged firm’s state-based retail offers. 


ALH Group Pty Ltd (75 per cent owned by Woolworths Limited) - proposed 
acquisition of Hotels and takeaway liquor stores in NSW 
 
6
29. 
In regards to local liquor retail markets, market participants indicated to the 
ACCC that customers generally travel less than 3km from their residence to 
purchase packaged alcohol for off-site consumption, with sales to customers 
residing further than 5km from most retailers being uncommon unless the 
customer is in the area for another purpose. 
30. 
Market participants indicated that customers tend to utilise a retailer further than 
5km from their residence only when that store is a ‘destination’ store, such as 
‘big box’ (large format) retailers including Dan Murphy’s and 1st Choice Liquor, 
or where a store is located on a major thoroughfare and is utilised by consumers 
travelling to or from another destination.    
31. 
Given the above information, the ACCC has reviewed the proposed acquisitions 
in the context of local markets with a radius of 3-5km from the target licences, 
but also having regard to any site specific factors which may affect the radius. 
 
 
 
 
 
Retail markets for the sale of liquor for on-site consumption, entertainment and 
gaming 
32. 
In undertaking its review of the proposed acquisitions, the ACCC has sought 
information from the industry on the geographic scope of markets for the sale of 
liquor for on-site consumption, entertainment and gaming.  
The ACCC invites market participants to comment on the geographic scope of retail 
liquor markets. 
In regards to broader retail markets, the ACCC seeks comment on the factors that 
may constrain ALH/Woolworths state-wide retail liquor offer.  
In regards to local markets, whether the 3-5km radius identified by the ACCC is the 
correct geographic dimension for local markets for the sale of packaged liquor for 
off-site consumption, with reference to 
i. 
Whether the majority of sales from a liquor retailer are to consumers who 
reside within 3-5km of the retailer; 
ii. 
What factors influence consumers’ willingness to travel to access takeaway 
packaged liquor stores that are greater than 3 to 5 kms from their residence; 
and 
iii. 
Which other retailers constrain the local offers of liquor retailers, 
regardless of whether these are within 3-5km of the retailer. 


ALH Group Pty Ltd (75 per cent owned by Woolworths Limited) - proposed 
acquisition of Hotels and takeaway liquor stores in NSW 
 
7
33. 
Market participants have indicated that for venues in regional or suburban areas, 
customers generally travel 3-5km to a licensed venue to purchase alcohol for on-
site consumption.  
34. 
However, market participants have also informed the ACCC that the type, size 
and location of a venue significantly alters the geographic scope of the relevant 
market, with ‘destination’ venues located in areas such as the Sydney CBD more 
likely to have broad reaching geographic catchment areas when compared to 
‘local’ venues in suburban and regional areas. Although, the ACCC notes that 
while these venues have broad catchment areas, they may not directly compete 
with suburban venues for the same customers. 
35. 
For all venues considered, the ACCC has reviewed the proposed acquisitions in 
the context of local markets with a radius of 3-5km from the target. 
 
 
 
 
Wholesale market for the acquisition of liquor in NSW  
36. 
In undertaking its review of the proposed acquisitions, the ACCC has sought 
information from the industry on the geographic scope of the wholesale market 
for the acquisition of liquor. Market participants have indicated that liquor supply 
agreements between liquor manufacturers and major retailers and wholesalers 
such as Woolworths and Metcash are usually arranged on a state basis. However, 
the ACCC has also received information that the growth in national liquor brands 
and retail chains has resulted in a shift towards national liquor supply agreements. 
The ACCC invites market participants to comment on whether the 3-5km radius 
identified by the ACCC is the correct geographic scope for local markets for the sale 
of liquor for on-site consumption, entertainment and gaming, with reference to 
i. Whether the majority of customers of a venue reside within 3-5km of the 
venue; 
ii. What factors influence a consumer’s willingness to travel to venues that 
are greater than 3-5km from their residence; and 
iii. Which other venues constrain the local offers of liquor retailers, regardless 
of whether these are within 3-5km of the retailer. 


ALH Group Pty Ltd (75 per cent owned by Woolworths Limited) - proposed 
acquisition of Hotels and takeaway liquor stores in NSW 
 
8
 
 
Statement of issues 
Issues that may raise concerns 
Retail markets for the sale of packaged liquor for off-site consumption  
37. 
The ACCC has considered the proposed acquisitions in relation to both local 
retail liquor markets and the NSW retail liquor market  
38. 
The proposed acquisitions involve 13 hotels with attached or detached 
bottleshops and one stand-alone bottleshop. The ACCC does not consider hotels 
providing over the counter sales to be a significant constraint in these markets. 
Accordingly, the ACCC does not consider the remaining hotels subject to the 
transaction to be currently part of retail liquor markets as they do not operate 
attached bottleshops.  
39. 
The ACCC has identified concerns in four local markets where the number of 
competitors will be significantly reduced post-acquisition. These markets are: 
i. 
The market for the sale of packaged liquor for off-site consumption within 3-
5km of the Chittaway Tavern, located in the Chittaway Bay area of the NSW 
Central Coast. 
The ACCC is investigating whether the proposed acquisition will result in a 
substantial reduction in competition in the local market for the sale of 
packaged liquor for off-site consumption surrounding the Chittaway Tavern. 
ii. 
The market for the sale of packaged liquor for off-site consumption within 3-
5km of the Ocean Beach Hotel and Umina Foodtown, located in the Umina 
Beach area of the NSW Central Coast. 
The ACCC is investigating whether these proposed acquisitions will result in 
a substantial reduction in competition in the local market for the sale of 
packaged liquor for off-site consumption surrounding the Ocean Beach Hotel 
and Umina Foodtown. 
iii. 
The market for the sale of packaged liquor for off-site consumption within 3-
5km of the Albion Park Hotel, located in the Shellharbour area, South of 
Wollongong, NSW. 
The ACCC is investigating whether the proposed acquisition will result in a 
substantial reduction in competition in the local market for the sale of 
packaged liquor for off-site consumption surrounding the Albion Park Hotel. 
The ACCC invites market participants to comment on the geographic scope of 
wholesale liquor markets, particularly in regard to whether wholesale liquor markets 
are state-based or national. 


ALH Group Pty Ltd (75 per cent owned by Woolworths Limited) - proposed 
acquisition of Hotels and takeaway liquor stores in NSW 
 
9
iv. 
The market for the sale of packaged liquor for off-site consumption within 3-
5km of the Charles Hotel, located in the Fairy Meadow area north of 
Wollongong, NSW. 
The ACCC is investigating whether the proposed acquisition will result in a 
substantial reduction in competition in the local market for the sale of 
packaged liquor for off-site consumption surrounding the Charles Hotel. 
40. 
Each of these are addressed in more detail below. 
The Chittaway Tavern 
41. 
Chittaway Bay Tavern operates a significantly sized retail liquor outlet with a 
large range of products. This retail outlet is attached to a large hotel located 
within the Chittaway Bay Shopping Centre with an open plan bar and expansive 
attached beer garden.  
42. 
Market inquires undertaken by the ACCC indicate that the Chittaway Tavern 
currently competes with Berkeley Vale Cellars, Dan Murphy’s Tuggerah and 
Woolworths Liquor Tuggerah in the local market for the sale of packaged liquor 
for off-site consumption in the Chittaway Bay area. 
43. 
Market inquiries undertaken by the ACCC indicate that competition in the 
Chittaway Bay market occurs through price promotion, service and convenience. 
Market participants have indicated that Dan Murphy’s is the price leader in this 
market while smaller competitors such as Berkeley Vale Cellars and the 
Chittaway Tavern compete on convenience and service. Market inquiries also 
indicate that two clubs in the Chittaway Bay area operate attached bottleshops for 
members, but market participants do not consider that these clubs impose a 
significant constraint on the larger competitors in the market. 
44. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition will result in 
ALH/Woolworths controlling three of the four major competitors for the sale of 
packaged liquor for off-premises consumption in the retail market surrounding 
the Chittaway Tavern. 
45. 
The ACCC considers that due to the level of horizontal aggregation in the market 
post acquisition, ALH/Woolworths may have the ability and incentive to increase 
prices or reduce service levels and range at the Chittaway Tavern. The ACCC 
considers that this may be a profitable strategy for ALH/Woolworths as 
consumers switching consumption as a result of increased prices and/or decreased 
service levels at the Chittaway Tavern are likely to switch to another 
ALH/Woolworths store.  
46. 
The ACCC is also concerned that the presence of three separate Woolworths 
brands in this market post acquisition (BWS, Dan Murphy’s and Woolworths 
Liquor) may provide ALH/Woolworths with the capacity to differentiate between 
locations, with the Chittaway Tavern BWS and Woolworths Liquor having the 
capacity to charge higher prices and/or provide lower range and service levels. 


ALH Group Pty Ltd (75 per cent owned by Woolworths Limited) - proposed 
acquisition of Hotels and takeaway liquor stores in NSW 
 
10
47. 
Further, the ACCC is also considering the impact the reduction in competition 
resulting from the acquisition of the Chittaway Tavern will have on prices and 
service available at other licences in the market, particularly Dan Murphy’s 
Tuggerah which has a price matching retail strategy. 
48. 
Finally, the ACCC is considering the constraint imposed on the ALH/Woolworth 
licences, the Chittaway Tavern and Berkeley Vale Cellars by non-specialist 
liquor retailers including clubs with attached bottleshops.  
 
 
 
The Ocean Beach Hotel and Umina Foodtown 
49. 
The Ocean Beach Hotel is a large venue that operates a major attached bottleshop 
and a separate detached bottleshop under the same licence (the Ocean Beach 
Cellars). Umina Foodtown is a stand alone convenience store and bottleshop with 
a major liquor offering. 
50. 
Market inquires indicate that the Ocean Beach Hotel, Ocean Beach Cellars and 
Umina Foodtown currently compete with BWS Ettalong Beach, West Side 
Cellars and the Ettalong Hotel in the local market for the sale of packaged liquor 
for off-site consumption.  
51. 
Market inquiries indicate that competition in this market occurs through price 
promotion, service and convenience.  
The ACCC invites market participants to comment on the likely effect of the 
proposed acquisition of the Chittaway Tavern on the local market around the 
Chittaway Tavern, with reference to: 
i. 
The effect of ALH/Woolworths owning three of the four takeaway 
packaged liquor stores in the Chittaway Bay market;  
ii. 
The extent to which the Berkeley Vale Cellars imposes a competitive 
constraint on the target licence and the existing ALH/Woolworths licences; 
iii. 
The extent to which customers are likely to switch to other Woolworths 
related licences in response to an increase in prices or decrease in service at 
the Chittaway Tavern; 
iv. 
The extent to which a reduction in competition in this region may have a 
flow through to prices offered at other licences in the region, particularly 
Dan Murphy’s Tuggerah; and 
v. 
The extent to which other liquor retailers, including clubs with attached 
bottleshops, compete with ALH/Woolworths, the Chittaway Tavern and 
Berkeley Vale Cellars. 


ALH Group Pty Ltd (75 per cent owned by Woolworths Limited) - proposed 
acquisition of Hotels and takeaway liquor stores in NSW 
 
11
52. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition will result in 
ALH/Woolworths controlling three of the five licences for the sale of packaged 
liquor for off-premises consumption in the retail market surrounding the Ocean 
Beach Hotel and Umina Foodtown. 
53. 
In addition to the high level of horizontal aggregation resulting from these 
acquisitions, the ACCC is concerned that post acquisition the remaining 
competitors in the market, West Side Cellars and the Ettalong Hotel, will not 
provide a strong competitive constraint on ALH/Woolworths. The ACCC also 
notes that there are a number of clubs in the Umina Beach area that operate 
attached bottleshops for members, but market participants do not consider that 
these clubs impose a significant constraint on the larger competitors in the 
market. 
54. 
In particular, the ACCC is concerned that:  
i. 
West Side Cellars may not provide a significant competitive constraint on the 
merged entity as it will remain under the ownership of LHG. LHG may not 
have an incentive to compete with ALH/Woolworths due to its ongoing 
commercial interest in the Ocean Beach Hotel, Ocean Beach Cellars and 
Umina Foodtown as the lessor of the premises post acquisition; and 
ii. 
The Ettalong Hotel may not provide a sufficient competitive constraint post 
acquisition due to the range and size of the retail liquor offering at this hotel.  
55. 
While the ACCC is concerned that the existing competitors in this market may 
not provide a strong competitive constraint on ALH/Woolworths post acquisition, 
the ACCC understands that Wesfarmers intends to open a Liquorland store 
adjacent to the Coles supermarket in the area in the near future which may 
provide a stronger constraint. The ACCC is investigating the constraint likely to 
be imposed on ALH/Woolworths by Liquorland post acquisition. 
 
The ACCC invites market participants to comment on the likely effect of the 
proposed acquisition of the Ocean Beach Hotel and Umina Foodtown on the local 
market around the Ocean Beach Hotel and Umina Foodtown, with reference to: 
i. 
The effect of ALH/Woolworths owning three of the five takeaway 
packaged liquor licences in the retail market on price competition in this 
area; 
ii. 
The extent to which West Side Cellars and the Ettalong Hotel are likely to 
provide a competitive constraint on ALH/Woolworths post acquisition;  
iii. 
The impact that Wesfarmers entering this market with a Liquorland is 
likely to have on competition in the market; and 
iv. 
The extent to which other liquor retailers, including clubs with attached 
bottleshops, compete with retail liquor licences in the Umina Beach area. 


ALH Group Pty Ltd (75 per cent owned by Woolworths Limited) - proposed 
acquisition of Hotels and takeaway liquor stores in NSW 
 
12
 
The Albion Park Hotel 
56. 
The Albion Park Hotel is a hotel in the Albion Park area near the Shellharbour 
area south of Wollongong. The Albion Park Hotel operates a medium sized 
attached bottleshop. 
57. 
Market inquiries undertaken by the ACCC indicate that: 
i. 
The Albion Park Hotel currently competes with the Albion Park Cellars, the 
Oaks Hotel and the BWS Albion Park in the local market for the sale of 
packaged liquor for off-site consumption in the Albion Park area; and  
ii. 
Retail liquor stores in the Albion Park area compete with Dan Murphy’s 
Shellharbour, which is a large format ‘destination’ store around 5km from the 
target licence. 
58. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition of the Albion Park Hotel 
would result in ALH/Woolworths controlling two of the four competitors for the 
sale of packaged liquor for off-premises consumption in the retail market 
surrounding the Albion Park Hotel.  
59. 
In particular, the ACCC is concerned that the Albion Park Cellars and Oaks Hotel 
may not provide a sufficient competitive constraint post acquisition due to the 
range and size of the retail liquor offering at these locations. 
60. 
The ACCC considers that due to the level of horizontal aggregation in the market 
post acquisition, ALH/Woolworths may have the ability and incentive to increase 
prices or reduce service and range levels at the Albion Park Hotel. The ACCC 
considers that this may be a profitable strategy for ALH/Woolworths as 
consumers switching consumption patterns as a result of increased prices and/or 
decreased service levels at the Albion Park Hotel may switch to another 
ALH/Woolworths store.  


ALH Group Pty Ltd (75 per cent owned by Woolworths Limited) - proposed 
acquisition of Hotels and takeaway liquor stores in NSW 
 
13
 
 
 
The Charles Hotel 
61. 
The Charles Hotel is a hotel in the Fairy Meadows area of Northern Wollongong. 
The Charles Hotel operates a large attached bottleshop. 
62. 
Market inquiries undertaken by the ACCC indicate that the Charles Hotel 
currently competes with the Towradgi Beach Hotel, the Cabbage Tree Hotel, East 
Corrimal Cellars, Liquorland Balgownie, BWS Keiraville, BWS Fairy Meadow 
and Dan Murphy’s Corrimal in the local market for the sale of packaged liquor 
for off-site consumption in the Fairy Meadow area.  
63. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition of the Charles Hotel will 
result in ALH/Woolworths controlling four of the eight competitors for the sale 
of packaged liquor for off-premises consumption in the retail market surrounding 
the Charles Hotel.  
64. 
The ACCC notes that the Charles Hotel operates a relatively large retail liquor 
outlet which may be a strong competitor in the retail liquor market in the Fairy 
Meadow area and the removal of this competitor may reduce competition in this 
market, resulting in an increase in prices and/or a decrease in service. 
65. 
The ACCC considers that due to the level of horizontal aggregation in the market 
post acquisition, ALH/Woolworths may have the ability and incentive to increase 
prices or reduce service and range levels at the Charles Hotel. The ACCC 
considers that this may be a profitable strategy for ALH/Woolworths as 
consumers switching consumption as a result of increased prices and/or decreased 
service levels at the Charles Hotel may switch to another ALH/Woolworths store.  
The ACCC invites market participants to comment on the likely effect of the 
proposed acquisition of the Albion Park Hotel on the local market around the Albion 
Park Hotel, with reference to: 
i. 
The effect of Woolworths owning two of the four takeaway packaged 
liquor stores in the retail market;  
ii. 
The extent to which the Oaks Hotel and Albion Park Cellars impose a 
competitive constraint on the Albion Park Hotel; 
iii. 
The extent to which customers are likely to switch to other Woolworths 
liquor retail stores in response to an increase in prices or decrease in 
service at the Albion Park Hotel; and 
iv. 
The extent to which a reduction in competition in this region may have a 
flow through to prices offered at other stores in the region, particularly Dan 
Murphy’s Shellharbour. 


ALH Group Pty Ltd (75 per cent owned by Woolworths Limited) - proposed 
acquisition of Hotels and takeaway liquor stores in NSW 
 
14
66. 
In addition, the ACCC notes that while the Towradgi Beach Hotel operates a 
large attached bottleshop, the remaining competitors, the Cabbage Tree Hotel, 
East Corrimal Cellars and Liquorland Balgownie, may not provide a strong 
competitive constraint post acquisition due to either the range of their retail liquor 
offering or their location relative to the Charles Hotel. 
67. 
Further, the ACCC is also considering the impact the reduction in competition 
resulting from the acquisition of the Charles Hotel will have on prices and service 
available at other licences in the market, particularly Dan Murphy’s Corrimal 
which has a price matching retail strategy. 
 
 
 
 
Retail markets for the sale of liquor for on-site consumption, entertainment and gaming  
68. 
After assessing competition in the hotel markets within a 3-5km radius of the 
proposed targets, the ACCC has identified one local market where the number of 
competitors would be significantly reduced post-acquisition – the market for the 
sale of liquor for on-site consumption, entertainment and gaming within 3-5km of 
the Green Valley Hotel, located in the south west of the Sydney metropolitan 
area in the City of Liverpool.  
69. 
The ACCC is investigating whether the proposed acquisition will result in a 
substantial reduction in competition in the local market for the sale of liquor for 
on-site consumption, entertainment and gaming in the local market surrounding 
the Green Valley Hotel. 
The ACCC invites market participants to comment on the likely effect of the 
proposed acquisition of the Charles Hotel on the local market around the Charles 
Hotel, with reference to: 
i. The effect of ALH/Woolworths owning four of the eight takeaway 
packaged liquor stores in the Fairy Meadow market;  
ii. The extent to which the remaining competitors impose a competitive 
constraint on the target licence and the existing ALH/Woolworths licences; 
iii. The extent to which customers are likely to switch to other 
ALH/Woolworths related licences in response to an increase in prices or 
decrease in service at the Charles Hotel; and 
iv. The extent to which a reduction in competition in this region may have a 
flow through to prices offered at other licences in the region, particularly 
Dan Murphy’s Corrimal. 


ALH Group Pty Ltd (75 per cent owned by Woolworths Limited) - proposed 
acquisition of Hotels and takeaway liquor stores in NSW 
 
15
The Green Valley Hotel 
70. 
The Green Valley Hotel is a medium sized hotel in the Green Valley area of 
South Western Sydney, around 5km west of the Liverpool city centre. The Green 
Valley Hotel has a small attached bottleshop. 
71. 
Market inquires indicate that the ALH owned Pritchards Hotel is the only 
competing hotel to the Green Valley Hotel offering the sale of liquor for on-site 
consumption, entertainment and gaming within 3km. As such there would be no 
hotel competitors to ALH/Woolworths within 3km of the target post acquisition. 
72. 
The ACCC notes that although post acquisition there would be no hotel 
competitors to ALH/Woolworths located within 3km of the Green Valley Hotel, 
there are a significant number of hotel venues offering liquor for on-site 
consumption, entertainment and gaming in the Liverpool city centre, around 4km 
East of the Green Valley Hotel. The ACCC notes that there are no alternative 
hotel venues within 5km to the West of the Green Valley Hotel. 
73. 
Further, while there would be no hotel competitors to the Green Valley Hotel 
within 3km post acquisition, there are at least two large club venues, the 
Mounties Club and the Liverpool Catholic Club, within 3km of the target which 
offer a similar range of services. The ACCC notes that these clubs have a 
significantly greater number of electronic gaming machines than either the 
Pritchards Hotel or the Green Valley Hotel. 
 
 
 
Barriers to entry and expansion 
74. 
Market inquiries for this matter have indicated that there are limited structural 
barriers to entry for both retail liquor markets and hotel markets. This is a result 
of low capital costs and access to buying groups allowing entry with limited 
purchasing scale.  
75. 
However, the ACCC has found that while structural barriers to entry in these 
markets are low, there may be significant regulatory and strategic barriers 
preventing new entry in both the retail liquor and hotel markets. 
 Retail markets for the sale of packaged liquor for off-site consumption 
The ACCC invites market participants to comment on the likely effect of the 
proposed acquisition of the Green Valley Hotel on the local market surrounding the 
Green Valley Hotel, with reference to: 
i. 
The distance customers are willing to travel to access liquor for on-site 
consumption, entertainment and gaming, noting the competitors to the 
Green Valley Hotel located in the Liverpool city centre; and 
ii. 
The extent to which large club venues offering similar services to hotels 
will impose a competitive constraint on ALH post acquisition.  


ALH Group Pty Ltd (75 per cent owned by Woolworths Limited) - proposed 
acquisition of Hotels and takeaway liquor stores in NSW 
 
16
76. 
In the retail liquor market, market participants have indicated to the ACCC that 
the application process for a new liquor licence can involve significant cost and 
take up to twelve months to complete. In addition, market participants have 
indicated that if there is an existing high concentration of liquor outlets it may be 
impossible to acquire a new licence for that area. 
77. 
In addition to regulatory barriers, market participants have raised concerns that 
the presence of a large, established competitor such as a Woolworths Dan 
Murphy’s outlet or Wesfarmers 1st Choice Liquor may represent a significant 
strategic barrier to entry in a local market regardless of whether that market is 
currently competitive. This is a result of these retailers ‘lowest price guarantee’ 
marketing campaigns which may deter new entrants to a market. 
Retail markets for the sale of liquor for on-site consumption, entertainment and gaming 
78. 
Market participants have indicated to the ACCC that there may be significant 
regulatory barriers to new hotels entering the market. These barriers involve the 
difficulty in acquiring new liquor and gaming licences. 
79. 
In regards to liquor licences, market participants have indicated that opposition 
from nearby businesses and residents can significantly delay or block the granting 
of an on-site licence while a high concentration of existing venues in an area can 
also reduce the chance of being granted a licence.  
80. 
Market participants have indicated that acquiring electronic gaming machine 
licences is also very difficult in most areas, thus creating a significant barrier to 
entry as venues without electronic gaming machines are unlikely to be 
competitive with those that have gaming machines. 
 
 
The ACCC invites market participants to comment on the height of barriers to entry 
to the markets identified above and whether these barriers are likely to change if the 
proposed acquisitions proceed, with reference to: 
i. 
The degree of difficulty faced by a new entrant in locating an appropriate 
and available site for a liquor store or hotel in the local markets identified 
above, including whether there are any zoning or other local government 
restrictions in place; 
ii. 
The degree of difficulty faced by a new entrant in obtaining a liquor 
licence for a liquor store or hotel in the local markets identified above; 
iii. 
The degree of difficulty faced by a new entrant in obtaining sufficient 
gaming licences and whether the acquisition increases these barriers;  
iv. 
The effect of ALH/Woolworths existing licences in the local markets 
identified above; and 
v. 
Any other difficulties facing a new entrant in these markets. 


ALH Group Pty Ltd (75 per cent owned by Woolworths Limited) - proposed 
acquisition of Hotels and takeaway liquor stores in NSW 
 
17
 
Issues unlikely to pose concerns 
The NSW retail liquor market 
 
81. 
In the NSW retail liquor market, the ACCC considers that the more significant 
competitive constraints on ALH/Woolworths are likely to come from competitors 
with a similar state-based offer. This includes Wesfarmers (1st Choice, Vintage 
Cellars and Liquorland) and the major banner groups such as Cellarbrations and 
Bottle-O. 
82. 
While this is the case, it does not necessarily mean that a group of independent 
liquor retailers (such as LHG) do not impose a constraint on ALH/Woolworths’ 
state retail offers. In setting its state offers, ALH/Woolworths is likely to consider 
the competitive position of its stores against all major competitors.  This could 
include a group of independent liquor retailers (even if the retailers do not 
standardise their offers or brand). 
83. 
In this particular matter, the ACCC notes that the largest transaction, the 
acquisition of LHG hotels, involves 10 liquor retailers. This compares to over 330 
ALH/Woolworths liquor stores in NSW.  As such, it seems unlikely that this 
proposed acquisition alone would materially alter the competitive constraints 
imposed on ALH/Woolworths state retail offers.   
84. 
Of the remaining four retailers subject to the transactions, two are Waugh Group 
licences and two are De Angelis group licences. However, even if the ACCC 
included these four retailers with the 10 LHG retailers and treated the acquisitions 
as a single transaction, it would still represent a minimal change in the 
competitive constraint on ALH/Woolworths at the state level.  
85. 
In this context, the ACCC considers it unlikely that the proposed acquisitions 
would have a significant impact on competition between brands at a state level 
due to the very small transfer of market share which would result from the 
proposed acquisitions. 
Local markets for the sale of packaged liquor for off-site consumption and local 
markets for the sale of liquor for on-site consumption, entertainment and gaming 
 
86. 
The ACCC has also considered the competitive impact of the proposed 
acquisitions on the local markets for the sale of packaged liquor for off-site 
consumption and local markets for the sale of liquor for on-site consumption 
surrounding the remaining target licences listed in Attachment 1 which are not 
specifically addressed above.  
87. 
For each of these local markets the ACCC has identified a number of remaining 
competitors which would be likely to competitively constrain ALH/Woolworths 
post acquisition. 


ALH Group Pty Ltd (75 per cent owned by Woolworths Limited) - proposed 
acquisition of Hotels and takeaway liquor stores in NSW 
 
18
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Wholesale market for the acquisition of liquor in NSW  
 
88. 
The ACCC estimates that the proposed acquisitions will result in a market share 
transfer of approximately 1.4 per cent in this market.  
89. 
Market participants did not consider that the proposed acquisitions would result 
in a significant lessening of competition in the NSW wholesale liquor market as 
the additional market share gained by ALH/Woolworths will be insufficient to 
significantly increase their market power when negotiating liquor supply 
agreements with manufacturers and other suppliers. 
90. 
Accordingly, due to the small transfer of market share, and the lack of significant 
concern raised by the market, the ACCC believes it is unlikely the acquisition 
will raise any competition concerns within the wholesale liquor market in NSW. 
 
ACCC's future steps 
91. 
The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers market responses 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
92. 
The ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on each of the issues 
identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that may be relevant 
to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. 
93. 
Submissions are to be received by the ACCC no later than 22 March 2012. The 
ACCC will consider the submissions received from the market and the merger 
parties in light of the issues identified above and will, in conjunction with 
The ACCC invites market participants to comment on whether the proposed 
acquisitions raise competition concerns in the NSW wholesale liquor market. 
The ACCC invites market participants to comment on any competition concerns in 
any of the following markets:  
i. 
the NSW market for the sale of packaged liquor for off-site consumption;  
ii. 
the local market for the sale of packaged liquor for off-site consumption 
surrounding  any of the target licences which are not addressed above; and 
iii. 
the local market for the sale of liquor for on-site consumption, 
entertainment and gaming surrounding any of the target licences which are 
not addressed above.  


ALH Group Pty Ltd (75 per cent owned by Woolworths Limited) - proposed 
acquisition of Hotels and takeaway liquor stores in NSW 
 
19
information and submissions already provided by the parties, come to a final 
view in light of the issues raised above. 
94. 
The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 5 April 2012. However 
the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Merger Review Process 
Guidelines. A public Competition Assessment for the purpose of explaining the 
ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's public 
announcement. 


ALH Group Pty Ltd (75 per cent owned by Woolworths Limited) - proposed 
acquisition of Hotels and takeaway liquor stores in NSW 
 
20
Attachment A 
List of licences the subject of the proposed acquisition  
 
Some hotels operate an attached bottleshop, where this is the case it is indicated 
below. 
 
Licences proposed to be acquired from the Laundy Hotel Group  
 
1. Albion Park Hotel, Cnr Terry & Tongarra Rd, Albion Park (attached bottleshop) 
2. Balgownie Hotel, 141 Balgownie Road, Balgownie  
3. Belfield Hotel, 2 Burwood Rd, Belfield 
4. Charles Hotel, Fairy Meadow (attached bottleshop) 
5. Chester Hill Hotel, 196 Waldron Rd, Chester Hill 
6. Chittaway Tavern, 100 Chittaway Bay Rd, Chittaway (attached bottleshop) 
7. Club Tavern, 2 Scott St, Liverpool 
8. Family Inn, 278 Victoria Rd, Rydalmere (attached bottleshop) 
9. Farmers Home Hotel, 2-6 Hammond Ave, Wagga Wagga 
10. Golfview Hotel/Motel, 150 Rawson Rd, Guildford 
11. Granville Hotel, 10 Goode St, Granville 
12. Greenacre Hotel, 160 Waterloo Rd, Greenacre 
13. Harlequin Hotel, 152-156 Harris St, Pyrmont 
14. High Flyer Hotel, Cnr Marion St & Birch St 
15. Honeysuckle Hotel, Lee Wharf C, Honeysuckle Drive, Newcastle 
16. Horse & Jockey, Cnr Parramatte Rd & Knight St, Homebush 
17. Hume Hotel, 501 Hume Highway, Yagoona (attached bottleshop) 
18. Jamison Hotel, 186 Smith St, Penrith 
19. North Wollongong Hotel, 3 Flinders St, North Wollongong 
20. Ocean Beach Hotel, Cnr Trafalgar St & West St, Umina (attached bottleshop); 
Ocean Beach Cellars, 307 Trafalgar Ave, Umina (drive through bottleshop, 
operating under the same licence as the Ocean Beach Hotel) 
21. Regents Park Hotel, 4 Amy St, Regents Park (attached bottleshop) 
22. Tolland Hotel, 245 Bourke St, Wagga Wagga (attached bottleshop) 
23. Umina Foodtown, Umina Mall, Ocean Beach Road, Umina (detached 
bottleshop) 
24. Villawood Hotel, 924 Woodville Rd, Villawood 
25. Yagoona Hotel, 299 Cooper Rd, Yagoona  
 
Licences proposed to be acquired from the Waugh Group  
 
26. Billabong Hotel, 153 Merrylands Rd, Merrylands 
27. Blue Cattle Dog, Mamre Road, St Clair (attached bottleshop) 
28. Gymea Hotel, 41 Gymea Bay Rd, Gymea (attached bottleshop) 
29. Lockies Hotel, 1423 Camden Way, Leppington 
30. Summer Hill Hotel, 1 Lackey St, Summer Hill 
 
Licences proposed to be acquired from the De Angelis Group  
 
31. Green Valley Hotel, Woodward Crescent, Green Valley (attached bottleshop) 
32. Toongabbie Hotel, 15 Aurelia St, Toongabbie (attached bottleshop) 
