 
 
1 
Our ref: 
IM-72251 
Contact officer: 
Sophie Musker / Victoria Xia 
Contact phone: 
(03) 9658 6408 / (02) 6243 1360 
23 October 2023  
Dear Interested Party 
Request for submissions: Bunge’s proposed merger with Viterra  
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
Bunge Limited’s (Bunge) proposed merger with Viterra Limited (Viterra) (the proposed 
transaction). 
Bunge and Viterra both originate grains (including oilseeds) and market vegetable oils in 
Australia. Bunge provides storage and handling services and port terminal services in WA. 
Viterra provides storage and handling services and port terminal services primarily in SA. 
Further information on the proposed transaction and the merger parties is set out in 
Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact on competition. In particular, we are 
seeking your views on: 
 
how closely Viterra and Bunge compete with each other 
 
the likely impact of the proposed transaction on prices and/or service quality, and 
 
whether the proposed transaction is likely to give the combined Viterra/Bunge the 
ability and incentive to foreclose its competitors. 
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B. 
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed transaction is in section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits mergers and acquisitions 
that are likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
Please provide your response by 10 November 2023 via email with the title: Submission re: 
Viterra/Bunge – attention Sophie Musker. If you require more time to respond, please let us 
know. 
If you would like to arrange a time to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any 
questions about this letter, please contact Sophie Musker on (03) 9658 6408 or Victoria Xia 
on (02) 6243 1360. 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public Mergers 
Register at ACCC mergers register.  
 
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601 
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601 
tel: (02) 6243 1368 
 
mergers@accc.gov.au 
www.accc.gov.au


 
 
2 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC treats sensitive information it receives during a merger review as confidential, and will 
not publish your submission. We will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our 
advisors/consultants) unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information 
legislation or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition and 
Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, we will 
notify you in advance where possible so that you have an opportunity to be heard. Therefore 
please clearly indicate if any information you provide is confidential. Our Informal Merger Review 
Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely  
 
 
Daniel McCracken-Hewson 
General Manager 
Merger Investigations  
 


 
 
3 
Attachment A 
The proposed transaction 
Bunge is proposing to acquire 100% of the issued and outstanding share capital of Viterra. 
As part of the proposed transaction, Viterra’s three main shareholders, Glencore PLC 
(Glencore), the Canada Pension Plan Investment Board (CPPIB) and the British Columbia 
Investment Management Corporation (BCI) would acquire an interest in Bunge.  
Bunge 
Bunge is an agribusiness and food company headquartered in Missouri, USA. In Australia, 
Bunge: 
 
originates grains (barley, wheat and oilseeds (rapeseed/canola)) primarily from WA, 
 
markets corn flour and lecithin, in WA, SA, Victoria and NSW and vegetable oil 
(sunflower oil) in QLD and NSW 
 
has two grain upcountry receival facilities in WA at Kukerin and Arthur River, and 
 
has storage facilities on land adjacent to the Bunbury port export terminal in WA 
operated by WAPRES. These storage facilities are connected to a ship loader at the 
Bunbury port terminal via a belt conveyor.  
Viterra 
Viterra is an agribusiness headquartered in the Netherlands. Viterra is currently owned by 
Glencore (49.99%), CPPIB (39.99%), BCI (9.99%) and Viterra Employee Benefit Trust 
(0.03%).  
In Australia, Viterra: 
 
originates grains (barley, durum wheat, sorghum and wheat, oilseeds 
(rapeseed/canola), pulses (lentils, lupins, beans and peas)) and cotton, 
 
markets grains (barley, sorghum, and wheat, oilseeds (rapeseed/canola)), vegetable 
oil (sunflower oil), soybean meal, soybean hull, cotton and pulses (lentils, lupins, 
beans and peas), 
 
has 50 operational upcountry storage and handling facilities (48 in SA and 2 in 
Victoria), 
 
owns and operates 6 bulk grain loading facilities at port terminals located at Outer 
Harbour, Inner Harbour, Port Lincoln, Wallaroo, Port Giles and Thevenard in SA, and 
 
offers commodity rail haulage services. 
 
 
 


 
 
4 
Attachment B 
1. Please provide a brief description of your business or organisation, including any 
commercial relationship(s) with Bunge and/or Viterra. 
Origination and marketing of grains and vegetable oils 
2. How closely do Bunge and Viterra compete for origination and marketing services? 
Please specify the location/s in which they compete and for what commodities (for 
example, specific types of grains, oilseeds and/or vegetable oils). 
3. Identify and describe alternative suppliers that compete with Bunge and/or Viterra in 
origination and/or marketing. Please specify the location/s in which these suppliers 
compete with Bunge and Viterra and for what commodities (for example, specific 
types of grains, oilseeds and/or vegetable oils).  
4. Do farmers or cooperatives supply numerous types of grains or focus on supplying 
specific kinds of grains? How feasible is it to switch to the supply of other kinds of 
grains? Please explain any costs or barriers to switching.  
5. Describe any barriers to entry and expansion for the supply of origination and 
marketing services for grains and vegetable oils, including capital costs, the ease 
with which customers can switch suppliers, accreditation or regulatory requirements 
and any other relevant factors. 
Storage and handling services and port terminal services 
6. Describe how customers procure: 
a. storage and handling services for grains, and 
b. port terminal services for grains. 
7. Describe whether grain (i) storage and handling services, (ii) rail haulage services 
and/or (iii) port terminal services, are bundled. In your response, please explain 
whether it is important or advantageous for agribusinesses to offer several services. 
8. How closely do Bunge and Viterra compete for: 
a. storage and handling services, and 
b. port terminal services.  
9. Identify and describe alternative suppliers in each of SA and WA that compete with 
Bunge and/or Viterra, for: 
a. storage and handling services, and 
b. port terminal services.  
10. Discuss whether the proposed merger would increase a combined Bunge/Viterra’s 
ability and incentive to foreclose its competitors (for example, limit access to storage 
and handling services and/or port terminal services).  
Other information or competition issues 
11. Provide any additional information or comments, or identify other competition issues, 
that you consider relevant to the ACCC’s consideration of the proposed transaction.  
