 
 
Our ref:  
IM-71565 
Contact officer:  
John Rouw / Nicholas Wellfare 
Contact phone:  
(03) 9290 1402 / (02) 9230 3813 
 
 
 
1 March 2022 
Dear Interested Party 
Re:  Request for submissions: Dye & Durham’s proposed acquisition of Link 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
the proposed acquisition of Link Administration Holdings (Link) by Dye & Durham 
Corporation (D&D) (the proposed acquisition). 
D&D provides information search and broking services Australia-wide, and jurisdiction-
specific conveyancing software solutions and lodgement services, including manual 
search, mortgage and lodgement services.  
Link provides outsourced administration services for superannuation funds and corporate 
markets, as well as related services including data management, analytics, digital 
communication and stake-holder education and advice. Link also has a 43% stake in PEXA 
Group Limited (PEXA), which operates an Electronic Lodgement Network and provides a 
selection of add-on products, such as PEXA Plus and PEXA Projects. Further details are 
provided at Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact on competition. In particular, we are 
seeking your views on:  
• 
competition to supply information search and broking services, conveyancing 
software, practice management software, and lodgement and settlement services—
and combinations or bundles of these 
• 
the ability and incentive for D&D, Link and/or PEXA to discriminate against or 
‘foreclose’ other businesses (such as other information search and broking 
providers, software providers or Electronic Lodgement Network Operators) or 
otherwise frustrate their ability to compete. 
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in section 
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
tel: (02) 6243 1368 
mergers@accc.gov.au
www.accc.gov.au


50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
Please provide your response by 5pm, 15 March 2022 via email with the title: Submission 
re: D&D/Link - attention John Rouw / Nicholas Wellfare. If you require more time to 
respond, please let us know. 
If you would like to arrange a time to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any 
questions about this letter, please contact John Rouw on (03) 9290 1402 or Nicholas 
Wellfare on (02) 9230 3813. 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public 
Mergers Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC treats sensitive information it receives during a merger review as confidential, 
and will not publish your submission. We will not disclose submissions to third parties 
(except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of 
information legislation or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the 
Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, we will notify you in advance where possible so that you have an opportunity to 
be heard. Therefore please clearly indicate if any information you provide is confidential. 
Our Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on 
confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
Daniel McCracken-Hewson 
General Manager  
Merger Investigations  
 
 


Attachment A 
The proposed transaction 
Dye & Durham proposes to acquire 100% of the issued share capital of Link 
Administration Holdings.  
Dye & Durham 
Dye & Durham (D&D) is an international provider of cloud-based software and 
technology solutions to legal and business professionals, including lawyers and 
conveyancers. D&D acquired SAI Global’s Property Division in January 2021 and 
GlobalX in July 2021. D&D’s core products and services include: 
• 
Information search and broking services—property, commercial and personal 
information. 
• 
Conveyancing and legal practice management software—including Matter 
Centre and Conveyancing Manager, Iceridge, Conveyancing Directory, Open 
Practice, and TrustOnline. 
• 
Manual property settlement services—services include physical property 
settlement attendance, stamp duty calculations and manual stamping, 
lodgement and registration. 
Link Administration Holdings  
Link Administration Holdings (Link) is an Australian based, ASX listed company 
(ASX: LNK). It provides outsourced administration services for superannuation funds 
and corporate markets, as well as related services including data management, 
analytics, digital communication and stakeholder education and advice. 
PEXA 
Link also holds a 43% stake in PEXA Group Limited (ASX:PXA), making it the largest 
shareholder. As at the date of PEXA’s 2021 annual report, Commonwealth Bank of 
Australia had an approximate 23% stake. No other shareholder had more than 10%. 
PEXA is an electronic lodgement network operator, providing an online platform that 
allows property settlements to be completed electronically (e-conveyancing). PEXA 
offers the following products and services: 
• 
Electronic Lodgement Network—The PEXA exchange is a digital property 
settlements platform that is integrated with six Land Titles Offices and five 
State Revenue Offices for the lodgement of documents, as well as the 
Reserve Bank of Australia, the Australian Taxation Office and major financial 
institutions to facilitate financial settlement. PEXA also offers a range of 
complementary tools to assist subscribers using the PEXA exchange, 
including PEXA Plus, PEXA Projects, PEXA Key, PEXA Planner, and PEXA 
Tracker. 
• 
Information search and broking services—PEXA Plus allows for ordering of a 
limited range of title searches, property searches and certificates in NSW and 
Victoria. PEXA operates as a re-seller of content compiled by third party 
brokers. 
• 
PEXA Ventures—offers a range of funding, bespoke services and programs 
for entrepreneurs and businesses in the property services sector. 
• 
PEXA Insights—provides insights into the Australian property market to 
industry, government and individuals, using information from the PEXA 
exchange coupled with complementary datasets. 


Attachment B 
1. Provide a brief description of your business or organisation, including any 
commercial relationship/s you have with D&D, Link or PEXA. 
Information search and broking services and conveyancing and legal practice 
management software  
2. Discuss the closeness of competition between D&D and PEXA for the supply of 
information search and broking services, conveyancing software and legal 
practice management software. Provide examples. 
3. Identify and describe other suppliers and the extent to which they compete with 
D&D and/or PEXA in the supply of these products/services. 
a. In your response, identify and describe any especially vigorous or 
effective competitors, including in terms of price discounting, promotional 
activity, product innovation or new technologies. 
4. If you are a provider of these services, discuss the extent to which your 
organisation competes with D&D and/or PEXA in the supply of information search 
and broking services, conveyancing software or legal practice management 
software. Provide examples. 
e-conveyancing and Electronic Lodgement Networks  
5. Discuss competition, including potential future competition, between PEXA and 
any other providers of e-conveyancing and/or Electronic Lodgement Networks. 
Provide examples. For example, discuss: 
a. the extent to which PEXA faces competition, now or in the next two to 
three years, and from which firms 
b. the nature of competition, such as whether there is competition on price, 
promotional activity, production innovation / new technologies or 
combining / bundling services and other products. 
6. Outline your views on the likelihood of a new firm successfully entering, or an 
existing competitor expanding in, supplying e-conveyancing and/or Electronic 
Lodgement Networks (and provide examples). In your response, explain the 
nature and extent of any barriers or impediments to such entry or expansion. You 
may wish to have regard to such factors as: 
a. economies of scale and the minimum efficient scale of market entry 
b. costs and timeframe for market entry 
c. any regulatory barriers 
d. access to key inputs, such as data or data standards 
e. interoperability and/or integration between platforms. 
Potential for anti-competitive foreclosure post-acquisition 
7. 
Discuss whether and why you consider any products or services offered by D&D 
or PEXA are “must haves” for your or any other business. 


8. 
Provide your views on whether a combined D&D/Link will have the ability and 
incentive to: 
a. limit or deny access to any product or service  
b. bundle or tie services together (including information search and broking 
services, conveyancing or legal practice management software, manual 
settlement services and Electronic Lodgement Network services) 
c. establish preferential integration with PEXA 
d. raise any barriers for entities other than D&D/Link to integrate with PEXA 
or access PEXA’s services. 
9. 
Discuss whether any of the following factors are likely to limit a combined 
D&D/Link’s ability to engage in any of the behaviour outlined in Question 8:  
a. Link having a minority 43% interest in PEXA, compared with full 
ownership 
b. any regulatory regimes 
c. alternatives to PEXA. 
Additional information  
10. Provide any additional information or comments relevant to the ACCC’s consideration 
of the proposed acquisition. 
 
