 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Undertaking to the Australian 
Competition and Consumer 
Commission 
 
Given under section 87B of the Competition and 
Consumer Act 2010 (Cth) by Dye & Durham 
Limited (Ontario Corp No. 002762926) and its 
subsidiary Dye & Durham Holdings Pty Ltd ACN 
646 897 412 
 
 


 
 
 
Contents 
 
1. 
Person giving the Undertaking ................................................................................... 1 
2. 
Background .................................................................................................................... 1 
3. 
Commencement of this Undertaking ......................................................................... 4 
4. 
Cessation of Ongoing Obligations ............................................................................ 4 
5. 
Divestiture of the Divestiture Business .................................................................... 4 
6. 
Process for approving a proposed purchaser ......................................................... 7 
7. 
Divestiture Business Protection ................................................................................ 9 
8. 
Independent Management of the Divestiture Business ....................................... 11 
9. 
Independent Audit ...................................................................................................... 15 
10. 
Failure to divest the Divestiture Business within the Initial Sale Period...... 19 
11. 
Notification of key dates and ACCC requests for information ....................... 24 
12. 
Disclosure of this Undertaking ............................................................................ 25 
13. 
Obligation to procure ............................................................................................. 26 
14. 
No Derogation ......................................................................................................... 26 
15. 
Change of Control .................................................................................................. 26 
16. 
Costs ......................................................................................................................... 26 
17. 
Jurisdiction .............................................................................................................. 27 
18. 
Notices ..................................................................................................................... 27 
19. 
Defined terms and interpretation ......................................................................... 28 
Schedule 1 – Dictionary and interpretation.................................................................. 31 
Schedule 2 – Proposed Purchaser Notice Form ......................................................... 36 
Schedule 3 – Undertaking Appointment Form............................................................. 39 
Schedule 4 – Divestiture Business ............................................................................... 43 
Confidential Schedule 4A – Divestiture Business ....................................................... 51 
Confidential Schedule 5 ................................................................................................. 53 
 


 
1 
 
1. 
Person giving the Undertaking 
1.1. 
This Undertaking is given to the Australian Competition and Consumer 
Commission (ACCC) by Dye & Durham Limited and its subsidiary Dye & Durham 
Holdings Pty Ltd ACN 646 897 412 (together referred to as D&D in this 
Undertaking) (Undertaking Signatories). 
2. 
Background 
The parties to the proposed acquisition 
D&D 
2.1. 
Dye & Durham Limited is a publicly listed company on the Toronto Stock 
Exchange, headquartered in Canada. Through its subsidiaries, D&D has 
operations in Canada, the United Kingdom and Ireland, supplying cloud-based 
software and technology solutions to legal and business professionals, including 
lawyers and conveyancers.  
2.2. 
In Australia, Dye & Durham Limited wholly owns Dye & Durham Holdings Pty Ltd 
ACN 646 897 412. D&D entered Australia through the acquisition of SAI Global’s 
property division in January 2021 and subsequently acquired GlobalX in July 
2021, ATOM in November 2021 and SettsPlus in December 2021.  
2.3. 
The core products and services supplied by D&D in Australia include: 
(a) information search and broking services, including property, commercial 
and personal information;  
(b) practice management software, including conveyancing and legal practice 
management software as well as ancillary solutions that support 
conveyancing transactions such as verification of identity and digital signing 
software solutions; 
(c) 
manual property settlement services, including physical property settlement 
attendance, stamp duty calculations and manual stamping, lodgment and 
registration. 
Link 
2.4. 
Link Administration Holdings Limited ACN 120 964 098 (the Target, or together 
with its subsidiaries, the Link Group) is an Australian headquartered and publicly 
listed company on the Australian Securities Exchange predominantly operating in 
Australia, New Zealand, the United Kingdom and Ireland. The Link Group is a 
technology-enabled provider of outsourced administration services for 
superannuation fund administration and corporate markets, as well as related 
services including data management, analytics, digital communication and 
stakeholder education and advice. The Target also holds a 42.77% shareholding 
in PEXA Group Limited ACN 629 193 764 (PEXA).  
2.5. 
PEXA is listed on the Australian Securities Exchange. PEXA’s wholly owned 
subsidiary Property Exchange Australia Limited (PEAL) principally operates as 
an Electronic Lodgment Network Operator (ELNO), through its Electronic 
Lodgment Network (ELN) product, PEXA Exchange.  


 
2 
 
2.6. 
An ELN enables users (also known as subscribers) to complete property 
lodgments and settlements electronically through a digital process known as e-
conveyancing. The PEXA Exchange is integrated with six land titles offices and 
five state revenue offices for the lodgment of documents, as well as the Reserve 
Bank of Australia, the Australian Taxation Office and major financial institutions to 
facilitate financial settlement. 
The Proposed Acquisition 
2.7. 
Dye & Durham Corporation entered into a binding Scheme Implementation Deed 
pursuant to which it (through an acquisition vehicle) will acquire 100% of the 
share capital in the Target by way of a scheme of arrangement (Scheme) under 
Part 5.1 of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth) (dated 22 December 2021 and 
amended 21 July 2022) (the Proposed Acquisition). 
2.8. 
The acquisition vehicle, Link Acquisition Australia Pty Ltd (D&D Acquirer), was 
incorporated on 6 May 2022.  D&D Acquirer is a wholly owned subsidiary of Link 
Acquisitions Holdings Australia Pty Ltd (incorporated in Australia), which in turn is 
a wholly owned subsidiary of Dye & Durham Corporation (incorporated in 
Ontario), which in turn is a wholly owned subsidiary of Dye & Durham Limited 
(incorporated in Ontario). 
2.9. 
Following implementation of the Scheme, D&D Acquirer will acquire and hold all 
of the shares in Link Group. D&D Acquirer is an unlisted Australian proprietary 
company that has not conducted business and does not own any assets or have 
any liabilities other than in connection with its incorporation, the entry into 
transaction documents in connection with the Scheme and the taking of such 
other actions as are necessary to facilitate the implementation of the Scheme 
(including actions in relation to the incurrence of costs, fees and expenses in 
connection with the Scheme). 
2.10. 
Through the Proposed Acquisition, D&D will acquire Link Group's 42.77% stake 
in PEXA. 
The ACCC’s review 
2.11. 
On 1 March 2022, the ACCC commenced its public review of the Proposed 
Acquisition. 
2.12. 
The ACCC undertook market inquiries and considered information provided by 
the parties to the Proposed Acquisition, industry participants and others. The 
purpose of the ACCC’s inquiries was to assess whether the Proposed Acquisition 
would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of substantially lessening 
competition in any market in Australia in contravention of the Act. 
2.13. 
On 16 June 2022, the ACCC released a Statement of Issues outlining preliminary 
concerns with the Proposed Acquisition. 
The ACCC’s competition concerns 
2.14. 
The ACCC is concerned that, in the absence of this Undertaking, the Proposed 
Acquisition would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of substantially 
lessening competition in one or more markets within the conveyancing workflow.  
2.15. 
By acquiring Link, D&D would gain the 42.77% shareholding in PEXA that Link 
currently owns. It is the potential vertical integration of D&D’s operations and 
PEXA that gives rise to the competition concerns. 


 
3 
 
2.16. 
The conveyancing workflow refers to the various steps undertaken to complete a 
property settlement or lodgment. Conveyancing is an efficiency driven process 
and the steps in the conveyancing workflow have become increasingly digitised in 
recent years. This digitisation has coincided with many Australian jurisdictions 
mandating the use of an ELN to complete property settlement and lodgment 
transactions. 
2.17. 
The supply of ELN services is highly concentrated. PEXA is the only fully 
operational ELNO, and has a near monopoly position in the supply of ELN 
services. The Proposed Acquisition would align PEXA with D&D (a significant 
supplier of upstream software services including practice management software 
and information search and broking services).  
2.18. 
The ACCC is concerned that, absent this Undertaking, each of D&D and PEXA 
would have the ability and incentive to engage in mutual preferential dealing 
resulting in the foreclosure of competition in the conveyancing workflow. 
Foreclosure would lead to higher prices and/or lower quality in the supply of one 
or more services. 
The Undertaking remedy 
2.19. 
D&D does not consider that the Proposed Acquisition would have the effect, or be 
likely to have the effect, of substantially lessening competition in any relevant 
market. However, to address the ACCC’s competition concerns, D&D has offered 
this Undertaking pursuant to section 87B of the Act to divest the D&D business in 
Australia. 
2.20. 
The objective of this Undertaking is to address the ACCC’s competition concerns 
as set out above by removing the vertical integration that would have resulted 
from the Proposed Acquisition. The Undertaking aims to achieve this objective by 
placing obligations on D&D to: 
(a) ensure that the Divestiture Business is sold to an Approved Purchaser that 
will result in the creation or strengthening of a viable, effective, stand-alone, 
independent and long-term competitor for each of information search and 
broking services, practice management software and manual property 
settlement services in Australia; 
(b) ensure that the purchaser of the Divestiture Business has all the necessary 
associated assets and rights to compete effectively for information search 
and broking services, practice management software and manual property 
settlement services; 
(c) 
maintain the economic viability, marketability, competitiveness and goodwill 
of the Divestiture Business prior to divestiture;  
(d) hold its interest in the Divestiture Business separate from its other assets 
and businesses (including the interest D&D will acquire in PEXA) and 
ensure it is operated separately from those assets and businesses pending 
divestiture of the Divestiture Business; 
(e) appoint an Approved Independent Manager to oversee the Divestiture 
Business from the Control Date until completion of the divestiture of the 
Divestiture Business; and  
(f) 
provide for the effective oversight of D&D’s compliance with this 
Undertaking. 


 
4 
 
3. 
Commencement of this Undertaking 
3.1. 
This Undertaking comes into effect when: 
(a) 
this Undertaking is executed by D&D; and 
(b) 
this Undertaking so executed is accepted by the ACCC 
(the Commencement Date). 
 
4. 
Cessation of Ongoing Obligations 
Withdrawal 
4.1. 
D&D may request withdrawal of this Undertaking pursuant to section 87B of the 
Act at any time. This Undertaking is taken to be withdrawn on the date the ACCC 
consents in writing to that withdrawal. 
Revocation 
4.2. 
The ACCC may, at any time, revoke its acceptance of this Undertaking if the 
ACCC becomes aware that any information provided to it was incorrect, 
inaccurate or misleading.  
Waiver 
4.3. 
The ACCC may, at any time, expressly waive in writing any of the obligations 
contained in this Undertaking or extend the date by which any such obligation is 
to be satisfied. 
Survival 
4.4. 
Unless and until this Undertaking is withdrawn in accordance with clause 4.1, 
clauses 1, 2, 3, 4, 9, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 and 17 survive completion of the 
obligations in clauses 5, 6, 7, 8, 10 and Schedule 4 and Confidential Schedules 
4A and 5. 
5. 
Divestiture of the Divestiture Business 
Divestiture  
5.1. 
D&D must, in accordance with this Undertaking, divest, or cause the divestiture 
of, the Divestiture Business only to an Approved Purchaser.  
5.2. 
In the event that clause 10 applies, D&D must not authorise the Approved 
Divestiture Agent to divest the Divestiture Business to a purchaser other than an 
Approved Purchaser. 
5.3. 
D&D must divest, or cause the divestiture of, the Divestiture Business by:  
(a) the sale, assignment, transfer and/or licence of all of the assets in Schedule 
4) to the Approved Purchaser, pursuant to the Approved Sale and Purchase 
Agreement and within the Initial Sale Period, otherwise clause 10 applies; 
(b) the transfer or grant to the Approved Purchaser of all Consents pursuant to 
clauses 5.4to 5.5; 


 
5 
 
(c) 
the transfer of any Transferred Personnel required pursuant to clauses 5.7 
to 5.8; 
(d) compliance with any Approved Transitional Technical Assistance 
Agreement required pursuant to clauses 5.9 to 5.11; and 
(e) compliance with any Approved Transitional Supply Agreement required 
pursuant to clauses 5.12 to 5.14. 
Consents 
5.4. 
D&D must:  
(a) obtain or assist the Approved Purchaser to obtain as expeditiously as 
possible, all Consents as required before completion of the divestiture of the 
Divestiture Business; 
(b) comply with all requirements necessary to obtain any Consents, including 
by promptly providing all information necessary for the Consents to be 
given; 
(c) 
act in good faith in its negotiations with the Approved Purchaser in relation 
to obtaining any Consents; 
(d) promptly pay the costs and expenses of any third party reasonably incurred 
in providing the Consents; and 
(e) enter an agreement with the Approved Purchaser and approved by the 
ACCC, or vary any existing Approved Transitional Supply Agreement as 
required by the Approved Purchaser, in relation to any goods or services 
that are required for the operation of the Divestiture Business which may be 
affected by any failure to gain a Consent. 
5.5. 
If, seven Business Days before completion of the divestiture of the Divestiture 
Business, the Approved Purchaser does not or is otherwise unable to obtain one 
or more Consents, then D&D must: 
(a)  immediately provide to the ACCC in writing details of the: 
(i) 
Consents that have not been obtained; 
(ii) 
reasons why the Consents have not been obtained; and 
(iii) 
information or material required to obtain the Consents. 
(b) continue to do everything in its power to satisfy clause 5.4as soon as 
possible after the completion of the divestiture of the Divestiture Business 
(and until such time as clause 5.4is satisfied).  
5.6. 
Even if D&D has complied with clause 5.4 to 5.5, it remains a breach of this 
Undertaking if D&D is unable to effect the divestiture of the Divestiture Business 
by reason that one or more Consents are not obtained.  
Transferred Personnel  
5.7. 
At the option of the Approved Purchaser, D&D must transfer to the Approved 
Purchaser:  


 
6 
 
(a) all employees; and 
(b) all service providers under a contract for service; 
who are, in the view of the Approved Purchaser, required for the Approved 
Purchaser to maintain, operate or conduct effectively the Divestiture Business 
and who consent to the transfer of their employment or contract for service to the 
Approved Purchaser (Transferred Personnel). 
5.8. 
When fulfilling its obligations under clause 5.7, D&D must:  
(a) encourage all Transferred Personnel to remain with the Divestiture 
Business, including offering incentives based on industry practice;  
(b) not directly or indirectly discourage any Transferred Personnel from any 
obligations to provide services to the Divestiture Business; 
(c) 
effective on the date of the divestiture of the Divestiture Business, release 
the Transferred Personnel from any obligations to provide services to D&D;  
(d) effective on the date of the divestiture of the Divestiture Business, release 
the Transferred Personnel from any non-compete or similar restraint of 
trade obligation, to the extent that such an obligation would otherwise 
prevent the person from performing his or her contemplated role in relation 
to the Divestiture Business or Unsold Business; and 
(e) not procure, promote or encourage the transfer of any of the Transferred 
Personnel from the Approved Purchaser to D&D for a period of 12 months 
after the completion of the divestiture of the Divestiture Business. 
Technical Assistance 
5.9. 
At the option of the Approved Purchaser, D&D must supply to the Approved 
Purchaser, under an Approved Transitional Technical Assistance Agreement, any 
Technical Assistance that is required by the Approved Purchaser in order to 
operate the Divestiture Business. 
5.10. 
D&D must ensure that any Approved Transitional Technical Assistance 
Agreement, and any renewal or extension of an Approved Transitional Technical 
Assistance Agreement, provides for the supply of Technical Assistance:  
(a) on a transitional basis for a period that is nominated by the Approved 
Purchaser and approved in writing by the ACCC; and 
(b) at cost and otherwise on arm’s length terms.  
5.11. 
To avoid doubt, D&D must seek prior written approval from the ACCC of any 
renewal or extension of an Approved Transitional Technical Assistance 
Agreement. Without limiting the ACCC’s discretion, in making a decision on 
whether to approve a renewal or extension of an Approved Transitional Technical 
Assistance Agreement, the ACCC will have regard to the criteria set out in 
clauses 5.9 and 5.10. 
Transitional Supply Agreements  
5.12. 
At the option of the Approved Purchaser, D&D must ensure the continued supply 
by D&D to the Approved Purchaser, under an Approved Transitional Supply 
Agreement, of any goods or services that are required by the Approved 


 
7 
 
Purchaser in order for the Approved Purchaser to be established as a viable, 
effective, stand-alone, independent and long-term competitor for information 
search and broking services, practice management software and manual property 
settlement services in Australia; 
5.13. 
D&D must ensure that any Approved Transitional Supply Agreement and any 
renewal or extension of an Approved Transitional Supply Agreement:  
(a) is for a reasonable transitional period, to be nominated by the Approved 
Purchaser and approved in writing by the ACCC; 
(b) provides for the supply or re-supply of the included goods and services at 
cost price; and 
(c) 
is on such terms other than price which are no less favourable to the 
Approved Purchaser than arm's length terms.  
5.14. 
To avoid doubt, D&D must seek prior written approval from the ACCC of any 
renewal or extension of an Approved Transitional Supply Agreement. Without 
limiting the ACCC’s discretion, in making a decision on whether to approve a 
renewal or extension of an Approved Transitional Supply Agreement, the ACCC 
will have regard to the criteria set out in clauses 5.12 and 5.13.  
 
6. 
Process for approving a proposed purchaser 
Potential purchasers 
6.1. 
 D&D must provide the ACCC and Approved Independent Auditor with: 
(a) the identity of any person who expresses an interest in acquiring the 
Divestiture Business;  
(b) the status of negotiations with each person; and  
(c) 
a copy of each person’s offer to acquire the Divestiture Business, where 
relevant; 
at the following times: 
(d) as soon as possible following the Commencement Date for those persons 
who express interest before the Commencement Date;  
(e) after the Commencement Date, within 10 Business Days of each person 
expressing the interest and/or providing an offer;  
regardless of whether the person subsequently withdraws or is declined. 
Provision of a notice for a Proposed Purchaser  
6.2. 
To seek ACCC approval for a Proposed Purchaser, D&D or the Approved 
Divestiture Agent must provide the ACCC with a notice in the form prescribed in 
Schedule 2 to this Undertaking (Proposed Purchaser Notice), including a draft 
sale and purchase agreement, a draft transitional technical assistance agreement 
(where required by the Proposed Purchaser), and a draft transitional supply 
agreement (where required by the Proposed Purchaser). 


 
8 
 
6.3. 
The Proposed Purchaser Notice must be provided to the ACCC at least 
20 Business Days prior to the end of the Initial Sale Period.  
Approval of a Proposed Purchaser after the Commencement Date  
6.5. 
The ACCC shall have the discretion to approve or reject in writing the Proposed 
Purchaser identified in the Proposed Purchaser Notice, which includes 
consideration of:  
(a) the draft sale and purchase agreement attached to the Proposed Purchaser 
Notice;  
(b) any draft transitional technical assistance agreement attached to the 
Proposed Purchaser Notice, in accordance with the criteria in clauses 5.9 
and 5.10; and 
(c) 
any draft transitional supply agreement attached to the Proposed Purchaser 
Notice, in accordance with the criteria in clauses 5.12 and 5.13. 
6.6. 
Without limiting the ACCC’s discretion, in making the decision pursuant to clause 
6.5, the factors to which the ACCC may have regard include whether the:  
(a) draft sale and purchase agreement is consistent with this Undertaking;  
(b) Proposed Purchaser will complete the transaction as contemplated by the 
draft sale and purchase agreement;  
(c) 
Proposed Purchaser is independent of D&D;  
(d) Proposed Purchaser is of good financial standing;  
(e) Proposed Purchaser has an intention to maintain and operate the 
Divestiture Business as a going concern; 
(f) 
Proposed Purchaser is able to conduct the Divestiture Business effectively; 
and 
(g) divestiture of the Divestiture Business to the Proposed Purchaser will 
address any competition concerns of the ACCC, including in relation to the 
likely long-term viability and competitiveness of the Divestiture Business 
under the ownership of the Proposed Purchaser. 
6.7. 
The ACCC may revoke an Approved Purchaser’s status as the Approved 
Purchaser if the ACCC becomes aware that any information provided to it was 
incorrect, inaccurate or misleading. 


 
9 
 
7. 
Divestiture Business Protection 
Protection of the Divestiture Business 
7.1. 
From the Commencement Date, D&D must not sell or transfer its interest, or any 
assets comprising part of, or used in, the Divestiture Business (other than the 
sale of goods and services in the ordinary course of business) or make any 
Material Change, except in accordance with this Undertaking or (subject to the 
other terms of this Undertaking) as necessary to allow completion of the 
Proposed Acquisition.   
D&D’s obligations in relation to the Divestiture Business prior to completion of 
divestiture 
7.2. 
Without limiting this clause 7, D&D must, from the Commencement Date until 
completion of the divestiture of the Divestiture Business, take all steps available 
to it to:  
(a) ensure that the Divestiture Business is managed and operated in the 
ordinary course of business as a fully operational, competitive going concern 
and in such a way that preserves the economic viability, marketability, 
competitiveness and goodwill of the Divestiture Business at the 
Commencement Date; 
(b) continue to provide access to working capital and sources of credit for the 
Divestiture Business in a manner which is consistent with the financing of 
the Divestiture Business before the Commencement Date;  
(c) 
continue to provide administrative and technical support for the Divestiture 
Business in a manner which is consistent with the operation of the 
Divestiture Business before the Commencement Date and in accordance 
with any plans established before the Commencement Date; 
(d) continue existing Agreements relating to the Divestiture Business with 
customers, suppliers and/or other third parties that are in place at the 
Commencement Date; 
(e) renew or replace upon expiry Material Contracts for the provision of goods 
or services to the Divestiture Business on commercial terms favourable to 
the Divestiture Business; 
(f) 
maintain the supply of those goods and services that are part of the 
Divestiture Business to existing customers in a manner consistent with the 
supply of those goods and services as at the Commencement Date; 
(g) maintain the standard of manufacture, distribution, promotion and sale of 
those products which form part of the Divestiture Business as at the 
Commencement Date; and 
(h) carry out promotion and marketing of the products which form part of the 
Divestiture Business in accordance with any plans established before the 
Commencement Date.  
Personnel of D&D 
7.3. 
From the Commencement Date until completion of the divestiture of the 
Divestiture Business, D&D must:  


 
10 
 
(a) in consultation with the Approved Independent Manager, replace any 
(i) 
Transferred Personnel; or  
(ii) 
if the Transferred Personnel have not yet been identified, any 
personnel necessary for the operation of the Divestiture Business;  
who leave or will leave the Divestiture Business before divestiture; 
(b) not terminate or vary the terms of employment or engagement (or agree to 
do any of those things) of any of the  
(i) 
Transferred Personnel; or  
(ii) 
if the Transferred Personnel have not yet been identified, any 
personnel necessary for the operation of the Divestiture Business; 
and  
(c) 
not directly or indirectly procure, promote or encourage the redeployment of 
personnel necessary for the operation of the Divestiture Business as at the 
Commencement Date to any other business operated by D&D.  
7.4. 
As soon as practicable after the Commencement Date, D&D must direct its 
personnel, including directors, contractors, managers, officers, employees and 
agents not to do anything inconsistent with D&D’s obligations under this 
Undertaking. 
D&D’s ongoing obligations in relation to the Divestiture Business 
7.5. 
To the extent D&D has obligations in relation to the provision of transitional 
technical assistance or continued supply pursuant to clauses 5.9 to 5.14 of this 
Undertaking in relation to the Divestiture Business, D&D  must not sell, assign, 
transfer, and/or licence directly or indirectly any of the assets necessary to fulfil 
such obligations without the prior written consent of the ACCC.  
Confidential Information 
7.6. 
Subject to clause 7.7, D&D must not, at any time from the Commencement Date, 
use or disclose any confidential information about the Divestiture Business 
gained through:  
(a) ownership and/or management of the Divestiture Business; or 
(b) fulfilling any obligations pursuant to this Undertaking. 
7.7. 
Clause 7.6 does not apply to information that D&D requires to:  
(a) comply with legal and regulatory obligations including obligations relating to 
taxation, accounting, financial reporting or stock exchange disclosure 
requirements; or 
(b) carry out its obligations pursuant to this Undertaking; 
provided such information is only used for that purpose and is only disclosed to 
those officers, employees, contractors and advisers of D&D who need to know 
the information to carry out the permitted purpose. 


 
11 
 
8. 
Independent Management of the Divestiture Business 
Obligation to appoint an Approved Independent Manager 
8.1. 
D&D must appoint and maintain an Approved Independent Manager to manage 
the Divestiture Business, from the Control Date until the completion of the 
divestiture of the Divestiture Business in accordance with this Undertaking.  
Process for approving a Proposed Independent Manager 
8.2. 
At least 15 Business Days before the Control Date, D&D must provide the ACCC 
with a notice for a Proposed Independent Manager in the form prescribed in 
Schedule 3 to this Undertaking (Proposed Independent Manager Notice), 
including a draft terms of appointment and a draft separation and management 
plan.  
8.3. 
If clauses 8.12, 8.13 or 8.14 apply, D&D must provide the ACCC with a Proposed 
Independent Manager Notice within five Business Days after the relevant event 
occurs, otherwise clause 8.8 applies. 
8.4. 
The ACCC shall have the discretion to approve or reject in writing the Proposed 
Independent Manager identified in the Proposed Independent Manager Notice. 
8.5. 
Without limiting the ACCC’s discretion, in deciding whether to approve a 
Proposed Independent Manager, the factors to which the ACCC may have regard 
include whether the:  
(a) person named in the Proposed Independent Manager Notice or identified by 
the ACCC has the qualifications and experience necessary to manage the 
Divestiture Business;  
(b) person named in the Proposed Independent Manager Notice or identified by 
the ACCC is sufficiently independent of D&D;  
(c) 
draft terms of appointment and the draft separation and management plan 
are consistent with this Undertaking; and 
(d) draft terms of appointment and the draft separation and management plan 
are otherwise acceptable to the ACCC. 
Appointment of the Approved Independent Manager 
8.6. 
 After receiving a written notice from the ACCC of its approval of the Proposed 
Independent Manager, the draft terms of appointment and draft separation and 
management plan, D&D must by the Control Date: 
(a) appoint the person approved by the ACCC as the Approved Independent 
Manager on the Approved Terms of Appointment; and 
(b) forward to the ACCC a copy of the executed Approved Terms of 
Appointment. 


 
12 
 
Failure to appoint 
8.7. 
If: 
(a) the Approved Independent Manager has not been appointed by the Control 
Date; 
(b) the Approved Independent Manager has not been appointed within 15 
Business Days after the Approved Independent Manager resigns or 
otherwise ceases to act as the Approved Independent Manager pursuant to 
clause 8.12, 8.13 or 8.14; or 
(c) 
 the ACCC has not received a Proposed Independent Manager Notice 
pursuant to clause 8.2; 
then clause 8.8 applies. 
8.8. 
If clause 8.7 applies, the ACCC at its discretion may: 
(a) identify and approve a person as the Approved Independent Manager, 
including approving the draft terms of appointment of the Approved 
Independent Manager and the draft separation and management plan; 
and/or 
(b) direct D&D to appoint a person who the ACCC has deemed is an Approved 
Independent Manager.   
Obligations and powers of the Approved Independent Manager 
8.9. 
D&D must procure that any proposed terms of appointment for the Approved 
Independent Manager include obligations on the Approved Independent 
Manager to:  
(a) maintain his or her independence from D&D, apart from appointment to the 
role of Approved Independent Manager, including not forming any 
relationship of the types described in paragraph 2.2(c) of Schedule 3 to this 
Undertaking with D&D for the period of his or her appointment;  
(b) act in the best interests of the Divestiture Business at all times including 
ensuring that the Divestiture Business is managed and operated in the 
ordinary course of business as a fully operational, competitive going concern 
and in such a way that preserves the economic viability, marketability, 
competitiveness and goodwill of the Divestiture Business at the Control 
Date; 
(c) 
not use any confidential information gained through the management of the 
Divestiture Business other than for performing his or her functions as 
Approved Independent Manager; 
(d) make only those Material Changes to the Divestiture Business which the 
ACCC does not object to; 
(e) operate and manage the Divestiture Business to the maximum extent 
practicable, in a manner which is financially and operationally separate from 
D&D; 
(f) 
co-operate with the requests of any Approved Divestiture Agent or Approved 
Independent Auditor appointed pursuant to this Undertaking. 


 
13 
 
(g) provide the following reports directly to the ACCC: 
(i) 
a monthly written report regarding the implementation of and any 
suggested changes to the Approved Separation and Management 
Plan; and 
(ii) 
an immediate report of any issues that arise in relation to the 
implementation of the Approved Separation and Management Plan or 
D&D compliance with this Undertaking; and 
(h) follow any direction given to him or her by the ACCC in relation to the 
performance of his or her functions as Approved Independent Manager 
pursuant to this Undertaking. 
8.10. 
D&D must procure that any proposed terms of appointment for the Approved 
Independent Manager provide the Approved Independent Manager with the sole 
authority to:  
(a) manage and operate the Divestiture Business according to the Approved 
Separation and Management Plan until the completion of the divestiture of 
the Divestiture Business; 
(b) provide any information requested by D&D pursuant to the protocol in the 
Approved Separation and Management Plan;  
(c) 
decide whether or not to provide access and the manner of such access to 
competitively sensitive information relating to the Divestiture Business 
requested by D&D which is not covered by the protocol in the Approved 
Separation and Management Plan; 
(d) renew or replace upon expiry Material Contracts and enter into new 
contracts for the provision of goods or services to the Divestiture Business 
on commercial terms favourable to the Divestiture Business; 
(e) engage, redeploy or make redundant personnel employed in the Divestiture 
Business as the Approved Independent Manager determines necessary; 
and 
(f) 
engage any external expertise, assistance or advice required by the 
Approved Independent Manager to perform his or her functions as the 
Approved Independent Manager.  
D&D’s obligations in relation to the Approved Independent Manager 
8.11. 
Without limiting its obligations in this Undertaking, D&D must: 
(a) comply with and enforce the Approved Terms of Appointment of the 
Approved Independent Manager;  
(b) maintain and fund the Approved Independent Manager to carry out his or 
her functions, including:  


 
14 
 
(i) 
indemnifying the Approved Independent Manager for any expenses, 
loss, claim or damage arising directly or indirectly from the 
performance by the Approved Independent Manager of his or her 
functions as the Approved Independent Manager except where such 
expenses, loss, claim or damage arises out of the gross negligence, 
fraud, misconduct or breach of duty by the Approved Independent 
Manager;  
(ii) 
ensuring that the Approved Independent Manager is fully able to 
acquire and pay for sufficient and timely delivery of all goods and 
services (including from third parties) which the Approved 
Independent Manager considers are required by the Divestiture 
Business; and 
(iii) 
providing and paying for any external expertise, assistance or advice 
required by the Approved Independent Manager to perform his or 
her functions as the Approved Independent Manager; and 
(c) 
not interfere with the authority of, or otherwise hinder, the Approved 
Independent Manager’s ability to carry out his or her obligations as the 
Approved Independent Manager, including: 
(i) 
accepting (and directing its directors, contractors, managers, 
officers, employees and agents to accept) direction from the 
Approved Independent Manager as to the control, management, 
financing and operations of the Divestiture Business, and for the 
Divestiture Business to meet all legal, corporate, financial, 
accounting, taxation, audit and regulatory obligations;  
(ii) 
providing access to the facilities, sites or operations of the 
Divestiture Business required by the Approved Independent 
Manager; 
(iii) 
providing to the Approved Independent Manager any information or 
documents that he or she considers necessary for managing and 
operating the Divestiture Business or for reporting to or otherwise 
advising the ACCC; and 
(iv) 
not requesting information or reports regarding the Divestiture 
Business from the personnel of the Divestiture Business except 
through the Approved Independent Manager; and 
(v) 
not appointing the Approved Independent Manager, or have any 
Agreements with the Approved Independent Manager, to utilise the 
Approved Independent Manager’s services for anything other than 
compliance with this Undertaking until at least 12 months after the 
Approved Independent Manager ceases to act in the role of the 
Approved Independent Manager. 


 
15 
 
Resignation, revocation or termination of the Approved Independent Manager 
8.12. 
D&D must immediately notify the ACCC in the event that the Approved 
Independent Manager resigns or otherwise stops acting as the       
Approved Independent Manager before the completion of the divestiture of the 
Divestiture Business.  
8.13. 
The ACCC may revoke an Approved Independent Manager’s status as the 
Approved Independent Manager if the ACCC becomes aware that any 
information provided to it was incorrect, inaccurate or misleading.  
8.14. 
The ACCC may approve any proposal by, or alternatively may direct, D&D to 
terminate the appointment of the Approved Independent Manager if in the 
ACCC's view the Approved Independent Manager acts inconsistently with the 
provisions of this Undertaking or the Approved Terms of Appointment.  
9. 
Independent Audit 
Obligation to appoint an Approved Independent Auditor 
9.1. 
D&D must appoint and maintain an Approved Independent Auditor to audit and 
report upon D&D’s compliance with this Undertaking. 
Process for approving a Proposed Independent Auditor 
9.2. 
At least 15 Business Days before the Control Date, D&D must provide the ACCC 
with a notice for a Proposed Independent Auditor in the form prescribed in 
Schedule 3 to this Undertaking (Proposed Independent Auditor Notice), 
including draft terms of appointment and a draft audit plan.  
9.3. 
The Independent Auditor is to be appointed for a term of two years. Within 15 
Business Days of the end of the Independent Auditor’s term, D&D must provide 
the ACCC with a new Proposed Independent Auditor Notice. A person who is, or 
who has been, the Independent Auditor is eligible for reappointment as the 
Independent Auditor.  
9.4. 
If clauses 9.17, 9.18 or 9.19 apply, D&D must provide the ACCC with a Proposed 
Independent Auditor Notice within five Business Days after the relevant event 
occurs, otherwise clause 9.9 applies.  
9.5. 
The ACCC shall have the discretion to approve or reject in writing the Proposed 
Independent Auditor identified in the Proposed Independent Auditor Notice.  
9.6. 
Without limiting the ACCC’s discretion, in deciding whether to approve a 
Proposed Independent Auditor, the factors to which the ACCC may have regard 
include whether the:  
(a) 
person named in the Proposed Independent Auditor Notice or identified 
by the ACCC has the qualifications and experience necessary to carry 
out the functions of the Approved Independent Auditor;  
(b) 
person named in the Proposed Independent Auditor Notice or identified 
by the ACCC is sufficiently independent of D&D;  
(c) 
draft terms of appointment and the draft audit plan are consistent with 
this Undertaking; and 
(d) 
draft terms of appointment and the draft audit plan are otherwise 
acceptable to the ACCC. 


 
16 
 
Appointment of the Approved Independent Auditor 
9.7. 
After receiving a written notice from the ACCC of its approval of a Proposed 
Independent Auditor, the draft terms of appointment and draft audit plan, D&D 
must by the Control Date: 
(a) appoint the person approved by the ACCC as the Approved Independent 
Auditor on the Approved Terms of Appointment; and 
(b) forward to the ACCC a copy of the executed Approved Terms of 
Appointment. 
Failure to appoint 
9.8. 
If: 
(a) the Approved Independent Auditor has not been appointed by the Control 
Date;  
(b) the Approved Independent Auditor has not been appointed within 15 
Business Days after the Approved Independent Auditor resigns or otherwise 
ceases to act as the Approved Independent Auditor pursuant to clause 9.17, 
9.18, or 9.19; or  
(c) 
the ACCC has not received a Proposed Independent Auditor Notice 
pursuant to clause 9.2;  
then clause 9.9 applies. 
9.9. 
If clause 9.8 applies, the ACCC at its absolute discretion may: 
(a) identify and approve a person as the Approved Independent Auditor, 
including approving the draft terms of appointment and draft audit plan; 
and/or 
(b) direct D&D to appoint a person who the ACCC has deemed is an Approved 
Independent Auditor. 
Obligations and powers of the Approved Independent Auditor 
9.10. 
D&D must procure that any proposed terms of appointment for the Approved 
Independent Auditor include obligations on the Approved Independent Auditor to:  
(a) maintain his or her independence from D&D, apart from appointment to the 
role of Approved Independent Auditor, including not forming any relationship 
of the types described in paragraph 2.2(c) of Schedule 3 to this Undertaking 
with D&D for the period of his or her appointment;  
(b) conduct compliance auditing according to the Approved Audit Plan; 
(c) 
where requested by the ACCC, assess the suitability of any Proposed 
Purchaser or potential purchaser of the Divestiture Business against the 
factors (as relevant) in clause 6.6; 
(d) provide the following reports directly to the ACCC: 
(i) 
a scheduled written Audit Report as described in clause 9.12;  


 
17 
 
(ii) 
an immediate report of any issues that arise in relation to the 
performance of his or her functions as Approved Independent 
Auditor or in relation to compliance with this Undertaking by any 
person named in this Undertaking; and 
(iii) 
where requested by the ACCC, a report on the suitability of any 
Proposed Purchaser or potential purchaser of the Divestiture 
Business following an assessment under clause 9.10(c); and  
(e) follow any direction given to him or her by the ACCC in relation to the 
performance of his or her functions as Approved Independent Auditor under 
this Undertaking. 
9.11. 
D&D must procure that any proposed terms of appointment for the Approved 
Independent Auditor provide the Approved Independent Auditor with the authority 
to:  
(a) access the facilities, sites or operations of the Divestiture Business and 
D&D’s other businesses as required by the Approved Independent Auditor;  
(b) access any information or documents that the Approved Independent 
Auditor considers necessary for carrying out his or her functions as the 
Approved Independent Auditor or for reporting to or otherwise advising the 
ACCC; and 
(c) 
engage any external expertise, assistance or advice required by the 
Approved Independent Auditor to perform his or her functions as the 
Approved Independent Auditor.  
Compliance Audit  
9.12. 
The Approved Independent Auditor must conduct an audit and prepare a detailed 
report (Audit Report) that includes: 
(a) the Approved Independent Auditor’s procedures in conducting the audit, or 
any change to audit procedures and processes since the previous Audit 
Report; 
(b) a full audit of D&D’s compliance with this Undertaking;  
(c) 
identification of any areas of uncertainty or ambiguity in the Approved 
Independent Auditor’s interpretation of any obligations contained in this 
Undertaking; 
(d) all of the reasons for the conclusions reached in the Audit Report; 
(e) any qualifications made by the Approved Independent Auditor in forming his 
or her views;  
(f) 
any recommendations by the Approved Independent Auditor to improve: 
(i) 
the Approved Audit Plan; 
(ii) 
the integrity of the auditing process;  
(iii) 
D&D’s processes or reporting systems in relation to compliance with 
this Undertaking; and 


 
18 
 
(iv) 
D&D’s compliance with this Undertaking; and 
(g) the implementation and outcome of any prior recommendations by the 
Approved Independent Auditor.  
9.13. 
The Approved Independent Auditor is to provide an Audit Report to the ACCC 
and D&D at the following times:  
(a) within 10 Business Days after the Control Date, at which time the Audit 
Report is to include the results of the initial audit and any recommended 
changes to the Approved Audit Plan, including the Approved Independent 
Auditor’s proposed procedures and processes for conducting the audit 
(Establishment Audit);  
(b) every month from the date of the Establishment Audit until one month after 
the divestiture of the Divestiture Business is completed;  
(c) 
every three months after the date of provision of the last Audit Report 
pursuant to clause 9.13(b), until the ACCC confirms in writing to D&D that it 
is satisfied that D&D has fulfilled its obligations pursuant to this Undertaking; 
and 
(d) if requested by the ACCC, a final report due three months after the last 
report provided pursuant to clause 9.13(c). 
9.14. 
D&D must implement any recommendations made by the Approved Independent 
Auditor in Audit Reports, and notify the ACCC of the implementation of the 
recommendations, within 10 Business Days after receiving the Audit Report or 
such other period as agreed in writing with the ACCC.  
9.15. 
D&D must comply with any direction of the ACCC in relation to matters arising 
from the Audit Report within 10 Business Days after being so directed (or such 
other period as agreed in writing with the ACCC).  
D&D’s obligations in relation to the Approved Independent Auditor 
9.16. 
Without limiting its obligations in this Undertaking, D&D must: 
(a) comply with and enforce the Approved Terms of Appointment for the 
Approved Independent Auditor;  
(b) maintain and fund the Approved Independent Auditor to carry out his or her 
functions including:  
(i) 
indemnifying the Approved Independent Auditor for any expenses, 
loss, claim or damage arising directly or indirectly from the 
performance by the Approved Independent Auditor of his or her 
functions as the Approved Independent Auditor except where such 
expenses, loss, claim or damage arises out of the gross negligence, 
fraud, misconduct or breach of duty by the Approved Independent 
Auditor;  
(ii) 
providing and paying for any external expertise, assistance or advice 
required by the Approved Independent Auditor to perform his or her 
functions as the Approved Independent Auditor; and 


 
19 
 
(c) 
not interfere with, or otherwise hinder, the Approved Independent Auditor’s 
ability to carry out his or her functions as the Approved Independent Auditor, 
including: 
(i) 
directing D&D personnel, including directors, contractors, managers, 
officers, employees and agents, to act in accordance with this 
clause 9;  
(ii) 
providing access to the facilities, sites or operations of the 
Divestiture Business and D&D’s other businesses as required by the 
Approved Independent Auditor; 
(iii) 
providing to the Approved Independent Auditor any information or 
documents he or she considers necessary for carrying out his or her 
functions as the Approved Independent Auditor or for reporting to or 
otherwise advising the ACCC; 
(iv) 
not requesting any information relating to the compliance audit from 
the Approved Independent Auditor without such a request having 
been approved by the ACCC; and 
(v) 
not appointing the Approved Independent Auditor, or have any 
Agreements with the Approved Independent Auditor, to utilise the 
Approved Independent Auditor’s services for anything other than 
compliance with this Undertaking until at least 12 months after the 
Approved Independent Auditor ceases to act in the role of the 
Approved Independent Auditor. 
Resignation, revocation or termination of the Approved Independent Auditor  
9.17. 
D&D must immediately notify the ACCC in the event that the Approved 
Independent Auditor resigns or otherwise stops acting as the Approved 
Independent Auditor.  
9.18. 
The ACCC may revoke an Approved Independent Auditor’s status as the 
Approved Independent Auditor if the ACCC becomes aware that any information 
provided to it was incorrect, inaccurate or misleading.  
9.19. 
The ACCC may approve any proposal by, or alternatively may direct, D&D to 
terminate the appointment of the Approved Independent Auditor if in the ACCC's 
view the Approved Independent Auditor acts inconsistently with the provisions of 
this Undertaking and/or the Approved Terms of Appointment or the Approved 
Independent Auditor fails to perform their role to an adequate standard.  
10. 
Failure to divest the Divestiture Business within the Initial 
Sale Period 
Divestiture of the Unsold Business 
10.1. 
In the event that the divestiture of the Divestiture Business to an Approved 
Purchaser is not completed by the end of the Initial Sale Period, the Divestiture 
Business becomes an unsold business (Unsold Business) and the provisions of 
this clause 10 apply.  


 
20 
 
Obligation to appoint an Approved Divestiture Agent 
10.2. 
From the end of the Initial Sale Period, D&D must appoint and maintain an 
Approved Divestiture Agent to effect the divestiture of the Unsold Business. 
Process for approving a Proposed Divestiture Agent 
10.3. 
At least 15 Business Days prior to the end of the Initial Sale Period, if the 
divestiture of the Divestiture Business has not been completed, D&D must 
provide the ACCC with a notice for a Proposed Divestiture Agent in the form of 
Schedule 3 to this Undertaking (Proposed Divestiture Agent Notice) including 
draft terms of appointment, a draft business sale agreement, and draft marketing 
and sale plan. 
10.4. 
If clauses 10.14, 10.15 or 10.16 apply, D&D must provide the ACCC with a 
Proposed Divestiture Agent Notice within five Business Days after the relevant 
event occurs, otherwise clause 10.9 applies. 
10.5. 
The ACCC shall have the discretion to approve or reject in writing the Proposed 
Divestiture Agent.  
10.6. 
Without limiting the ACCC’s discretion, in deciding whether to approve a 
Proposed Divestiture Agent, the factors to which the ACCC may have regard 
include whether the:  
(a) 
person named in Proposed Divestiture Agent Notice or identified by the 
ACCC has the qualifications and experience necessary to carry out the 
functions of the Approved Divestiture Agent;  
(b) 
person named in the Proposed Divestiture Agent Notice or identified by 
the ACCC is sufficiently independent of D&D; 
(c) 
draft terms of appointment, draft business sale agreement and draft 
marketing and sale plan are consistent with this Undertaking; and 
(d) 
draft terms of appointment, draft business sale agreement and draft 
marketing and sale plan are otherwise acceptable to the ACCC. 
Appointment of the Approved Divestiture Agent 
10.7. 
After receiving written notice from the ACCC of its approval of the Proposed 
Divestiture Agent, the draft terms of appointment, draft business sale agreement 
and draft marketing and sale plan, D&D must within two Business Days: 
(a) appoint the person approved by the ACCC as the Approved Divestiture 
Agent on the Approved Terms of Appointment; and 
(b) forward to the ACCC a copy of the executed Approved Terms of 
Appointment. 
Failure to appoint 
10.8. 
If: 
(a) the Approved Divestiture Agent has not been appointed within 10 Business 
Days after the Divestiture Business becomes an Unsold Business;  


 
21 
 
(b) the Approved Divestiture Agent has not been appointed within 15 Business 
Days after the Approved Divestiture Agent resigns or otherwise ceases to 
act pursuant to clauses 10.14, 10.15 or 10.16; or  
(c) 
the ACCC has not received a Proposed Divestiture Agent Notice pursuant to 
clause 10.4; 
then clause 10.9 applies. 
10.9. 
If clause 10.8 applies, the ACCC may, at its absolute discretion: 
(a) identify and approve a person as the Approved Divestiture Agent, including 
approving the draft terms of appointment of the Approved Divestiture Agent, 
draft business sale agreement and draft marketing and sale plan; and/or 
(b) direct D&D to appoint a person who the ACCC has deemed is an Approved 
Divestiture Agent. 
Obligations and powers of the Approved Divestiture Agent 
10.10. D&D must procure that any proposed terms of appointment for the Approved 
Divestiture Agent include obligations on the Approved Divestiture Agent to:  
(a) divest the Unsold Business only to an Approved Purchaser, at no minimum 
price;   
(b) maintain his or her independence from D&D, apart from appointment to the 
role of Approved Divestiture Agent, including not form any relationship of the 
types described in paragraph 2.2(c) of Schedule 3 to this Undertaking with 
D&D for the period of his or her appointment;  
(c) 
not use any confidential information gained through the divestiture of the 
Unsold Business other than for performing his or her functions as Approved 
Divestiture Agent; 
(d) follow the Approved Marketing and Sale Plan;  
(e) use his or her best endeavours to enter into a binding agreement for the 
divestiture of the Unsold Business as quickly as possible using the 
Approved Business Sale Agreement;  
(f) 
co-operate with the requests of any Approved Independent Manager or 
Approved Independent Auditor appointed pursuant to this Undertaking; 
(g) every 30 Business Days following appointment of the Approved Divestiture 
Agent, provide written reports directly to the ACCC which include: 
(i) 
information regarding the implementation of the Approved Business 
Sale Agreement and the Approved Marketing and Sale Plan 
including any previous changes approved by the ACCC; 
(ii) 
information regarding any suggested changes to any Approved 
Marketing and Sale Plan including any previous changes approved 
by the ACCC; 
(iii) 
an account and explanation of all disbursements, fees and charges 
incurred by the Approved Divestiture Agent in undertaking his or her 
duties by month and to the date of the report; 


 
22 
 
(iv) 
a schedule of agreed fees of the Approved Divestiture Agent 
(including the fees of any adviser appointed under clause 10.11(d)); 
(v) 
the efforts made to sell the Unsold Business; 
(vi) 
the identity of any advisers engaged; 
(vii) the identity of any persons expressing interest in the Unsold 
Business; and 
(viii) any other information required by the ACCC. 
(h) within 30 Business Days after the completion of the divestiture of the Unsold 
Business, provide a written report directly to the ACCC which includes a 
final accounting of: 
(i) 
any moneys derived from the divestiture of the Unsold Business; 
(ii) 
all disbursements, fees and charges incurred by the Approved 
Divestiture Agent in fulfilling his or her duties; and 
(iii) 
all agreed fees of the Approved Divestiture Agent (including the fees 
of any adviser appointed under clause 10.11(d); 
(i) 
immediately inform the ACCC of: 
(i) 
any issues that arise in relation to the implementation of the 
Approved Business Sale Agreement and any Approved Marketing 
and Sale Plan; 
(ii) 
non-compliance with this Undertaking by any person named in this 
Undertaking;  
(iii) 
any offers for the Unsold Business; 
(j) 
accept any offer for the Unsold Business upon instruction from D&D given in 
accordance with clause 10.13(d); and 
(k) 
follow any direction given to him or her by the ACCC in relation to the 
performance of his or her functions as Approved Divestiture Agent pursuant 
to this Undertaking. 
10.11. D&D must procure that any proposed terms of appointment for the Approved 
Divestiture Agent contain an irrevocable grant of power of attorney conferring all 
necessary power and authority on the Approved Divestiture Agent to: 
(a) negotiate with purchasers to divest the Unsold Business on terms 
considered by the Approved Divestiture Agent in his or her sole discretion to 
be consistent with this Undertaking and the Approved Marketing and Sale 
Plan; 
(b) execute any agreements with the Approved Purchaser required pursuant to 
clause 6.5; 
(c) 
upon instruction pursuant to clause 10.13(d), complete the divestiture of the 
Unsold Business to the Approved Purchaser in accordance with the 
Approved Business Sale Agreement; and 


 
23 
 
(d) engage any external expertise, assistance or advice required by the 
Approved Divestiture Agent to perform his or her functions as the Approved 
Divestiture Agent. 
10.12. Any irrevocable power of attorney granted pursuant to clause 10.11 will end upon 
resignation or termination of the Approved Divestiture Agent in accordance with 
clauses 10.14, 10.15 and 10.16, or in the event that the Unsold Business is 
divested in accordance with this Undertaking. 
D&D’s obligations in relation to the Approved Divestiture Agent 
10.13. Without limiting its obligations in this Undertaking, D&D must from the end of the 
Initial Sale Period: 
(a) comply with and enforce the Approved Terms of Appointment for the 
Approved Divestiture Agent;  
(b) maintain and fund the Approved Divestiture Agent to carry out his or her 
functions; including:  
(i) 
indemnifying the Approved Divestiture Agent for any expenses, loss, 
claim or damage arising directly or indirectly from the performance 
by the Approved Divestiture Agent of his or her functions as the 
Approved Divestiture Agent except where such expenses, loss, 
claim or damage arises out of the gross negligence, fraud, 
misconduct or breach of duty by the Approved Divestiture Agent;  
(ii) 
providing and paying for any external expertise, assistance or advice 
required by the Approved Divestiture Agent to perform his or her 
functions as the Approved Divestiture Agent;  
(iii) 
paying such fees as are agreed between the Approved Divestiture 
Agent and D&D (but not fees contingent on the price to be obtained 
for the Unsold Business); and 
(iv) 
if an agreement as to fees cannot be reached between the Approved 
Divestiture Agent and D&D within 15 Business Days after the end of 
the Initial Sale Period, D&D agrees to pay such fees as are directed 
by the ACCC; 
(c) 
not interfere with, or otherwise hinder, the Approved Divestiture Agent’s 
ability to carry out his or her functions as the Approved Divestiture Agent, 
including: 
(i) 
directing its personnel, including directors, contractors, managers, 
officers, employees and agents, to act in accordance with this 
clause 10;  
(ii) 
providing access to the facilities, sites or operations of the Unsold 
Business as required by the Approved Divestiture Agent; and 
(iii) 
providing to the Approved Divestiture Agent any information, 
documents or other assistance he or she considers necessary for 
carrying out his or her functions as the Approved Divestiture Agent 
or for reporting to or otherwise advising the ACCC; 
(d) within three Business Days after receiving notice from the ACCC pursuant to 
clause 6.5, D&D must instruct the Approved Divestiture Agent to complete 


 
24 
 
the divestiture of the Unsold Business to the Approved Purchaser in 
accordance with the documents approved by the ACCC pursuant to clause 
6.5; and 
(e) other than in accordance with clause 10.13(d) of this Undertaking, not 
instruct the Approved Divestiture Agent to divest the Unsold Business.  
Resignation, revocation or termination of the Approved Divestiture Agent 
10.14. D&D must immediately notify the ACCC in the event that an Approved Divestiture 
Agent resigns or otherwise stops acting as an Approved Divestiture Agent before 
the completion of the divestiture of the Unsold Business.  
10.15. The ACCC may revoke an Approved Divestiture Agent’s status as the Approved 
Divestiture Agent if the ACCC becomes aware that any information provided to it 
was incorrect, inaccurate or misleading.  
10.16. The ACCC may approve any proposal by, or alternatively may direct, D&D to 
terminate an Approved Divestiture Agent if in the ACCC's view the Approved 
Divestiture Agent acts inconsistently with the provisions of this Undertaking or the 
Approved Terms of Appointment. 
 
11. 
Notification of key dates and ACCC requests for information
 
 
11.1. 
D&D must notify the ACCC and each Undertaking Appointment in writing of:   
(a) the anticipated date of the Control Date, at least five Business Days before 
that date;  
(b) the anticipated date of the completion of the divestiture of the Divestiture 
Business or Unsold Business (as applicable), at least five Business Days 
before that date; 
(c) 
the occurrence of the Control Date, within one Business Day of that date; 
and 
(d) the occurrence of the completion of the divestiture of the Divestiture 
Business or Unsold Business (as applicable), within one Business Day of 
that date. 
11.2. 
The ACCC may direct D&D in respect of its compliance with this Undertaking to, 
and D&D must: 
(a) furnish information to the ACCC in the time and in the form requested by the 
ACCC; 
(b) produce documents and materials to the ACCC within D&D's custody, power 
or control in the time and in the form requested by the ACCC; and/or 
(c) 
attend the ACCC at a time and place appointed by the ACCC to answer any 
questions the ACCC (its Commissioners, its staff or its agents) may have. 
11.3. 
Any direction made by the ACCC under clause 11.2 will be notified to D&D, in 
accordance with clause 18.2. 


 
25 
 
11.4. 
In respect of D&D's compliance with this Undertaking or an Undertaking 
Appointment’s compliance with its Approved Terms of Appointment, the ACCC 
may request any Undertaking Appointment to: 
(a) furnish information to the ACCC in the time and in the form requested by the 
ACCC; 
(b) produce documents and materials to the ACCC within the Undertaking 
Appointment's custody, power or control in the time and in the form 
requested by the ACCC; and/or  
(c) 
attend the ACCC at a time and place appointed by the ACCC to answer any 
questions the ACCC (its Commissioners, its staff or its agents) may have. 
11.5. 
D&D will use its best endeavours to ensure that an Undertaking Appointment 
complies with any request from the ACCC in accordance with clause 11.4. 
11.6. 
Information furnished, documents and material produced or information given in 
response to any request or direction from the ACCC under this clause 11 may be 
used by the ACCC for any purpose consistent with the exercise of its statutory 
duties. 
11.7. 
The ACCC may in its discretion:  
(a) advise any Undertaking Appointment of any request made by it under this 
clause 11; and/or 
(b) provide copies to any Undertaking Appointment of any information 
furnished, documents and material produced or information given to it under 
this clause 11.  
11.8. 
Nothing in this clause 11 requires the provision of information or documents in 
respect of which D&D has a claim of legal professional or other privilege. 
 
12. 
Disclosure of this Undertaking 
12.1. 
D&D and the ACCC agree that Confidential Schedules 4A and 5 will remain 
confidential until after the completion of the divestiture of the Divestiture Business 
or Unsold Business.  
12.2. 
D&D acknowledges that the ACCC may provide each Undertaking Appointment 
with a copy of this Undertaking which includes unredacted versions of 
Confidential Schedules 4A and 5. 
12.3. 
D&D acknowledges that the ACCC may, subject to clause 12.1:  
(a) make this Undertaking publicly available;  
(b) publish this Undertaking on its Public Section 87B Undertakings Register 
and Public Mergers Register; and 
(c) 
from time to time publicly refer to this Undertaking.  
12.4. 
Nothing in clause 12.1 or the confidential parts of this Undertaking referred to in 
clause 12.1 prevents the ACCC from disclosing such information as is: 


 
26 
 
(a) required by law; 
(b) permitted by section 155AAA of the Act; 
(c) 
necessary for the purpose of enforcement action under section 87B of the 
Act; or 
(d) necessary for the purpose of making such market inquiries as the ACCC 
thinks fit to assess the impact on competition arising in connection with this 
Undertaking. 
12.5. 
Nothing in clause 12.1 or the confidential parts of this Undertaking referred to in 
clause 12.1 prevents the ACCC from using the information contained in this 
Undertaking for any purpose consistent with its statutory functions and powers. 
 
13. 
Obligation to procure 
13.1. 
Where the performance of an obligation under this Undertaking requires a 
Related Body Corporate of D&D to take or refrain from taking some action, D&D 
will procure that Related Body Corporate to take or refrain from taking that action.   
 
14. 
No Derogation 
14.1. 
This Undertaking does not prevent the ACCC from taking enforcement action at 
any time whether during or after the period of this Undertaking in respect of any 
breach by D&D of any term of this Undertaking. 
14.2. 
Nothing in this Undertaking is intended to restrict the right of the ACCC to take 
action under the Act for penalties or other remedies in the event that D&D does 
not fully implement and/or perform its obligations under this Undertaking or in any 
other event where the ACCC decides to take action under the Act for penalties or 
other remedies. 
 
15. 
Change of Control  
15.1. 
In the event that a Change of Control is reasonably expected to occur, D&D must:  
(a) notify the ACCC of this expectation as soon as practicable; and 
(b) only implement a Change of Control to another person or entity if that 
person or entity has given a section 87B undertaking to the ACCC that 
requires it to comply with the same obligations as are imposed on D&D 
pursuant to this Undertaking, or on terms that are otherwise acceptable to 
the ACCC, unless the ACCC has notified D&D in writing that a section 87B 
undertaking under this clause is not required. 
16. 
Costs 
16.1. 
D&D must pay all of its own costs incurred in relation to this Undertaking. 
 


 
27 
 
17. 
Jurisdiction  
17.1. 
Dye & Durham Limited irrevocably submits to the jurisdiction of the Federal Court 
of Australia in relation to this Undertaking. 
17.2. 
Unless and until notified in writing by D&D to the ACCC of the appointment of 
another person as agent within Australia, D&D appoints the person, with 
particulars as set out in this clause 17, as its agent for the purposes of any 
service of process in relation to this Undertaking. 
17.3. 
D&D appoints the following person for the purpose of this clause 17:  
Name: Kirsten Webb  
Address: Clayton Utz, Level 15, 1 Bligh Street, Sydney NSW 2000 
Email Address: kwebb@claytonutz.com 
Attention: Kirsten Webb, Partner   
18. 
Notices 
Giving Notices 
18.1. 
Any notice or communication to the ACCC pursuant to this Undertaking must be 
sent to: 
Email address:  
mergers@accc.gov.au  
 
Attention: Executive General Manager 
 
Merger, Exemptions & Digital Division 
With a copy sent to: 
mergersru@accc.gov.au 
 
Attention: Director, Remedies Unit 
 
Policy, Coordination & Remedies Branch 
 
Merger, Exemptions & Digital Division 
18.2. 
Any notice or communication to D&D pursuant to this Undertaking must be sent 
to:  
Name: Charlie MacCready, Dye & Durham 
 
Address: 199 Bay Street, Suite: 4610. Toronto, Ontario Canada M5L 1E9  
Email Address: charlie.maccready@dyedurham.com  
Fax number: N/A 
Attention: Charlie MacCready 
With a copy sent to: 
Name: Kirsten Webb and Sophia Haq, Clayton Utz 
 
 
Address: Level 15, 1 Bligh Street, Sydney NSW 2000 
 
 
Email Address: kwebb@claytonutz.com; shaq@claytonutz.com  
Fax number: N/A  
 
Attention: Kirsten Webb and Sophia Haq  


 
28 
 
18.3. 
If sent by post, notices are taken to be received three Business Days after 
posting (or seven Business Days after posting if sent to or from a place outside 
Australia). 
18.4. 
If sent by email, notices are taken to be received at the time shown in the email 
as the time the email was sent.  
 
Change of contact details 
18.5. 
D&D must notify the ACCC of a change to its contact details within three 
Business Days.   
18.6. 
Any notice or communication will be sent to the most recently advised contact 
details and subject to clauses 18.3 and 18.4, will be taken to be received.  
 
19. 
Defined terms and interpretation  
Definitions in the Dictionary 
19.1. 
 A term or expression starting with a capital letter: 
(a) which is defined in the Dictionary in Part 1 of Schedule 1 (Dictionary), has 
the meaning given to it in the Dictionary; or 
(b) which is defined in the Corporations Act, but is not defined in the Dictionary, 
has the meaning given to it in the Corporations Act. 
Interpretation 
19.2. 
Part 2 of Schedule 1 sets out rules of interpretation for this Undertaking. 


 
30 
 
Accepted by the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission pursuant 
to section 87B of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth) on: 
 
 
Date 
 
and signed on behalf of the Commission: 
 
 
 
Chair 
 
 
 
Date 
  
 
7 September 2022
7 September 2022


 
31 
 
Schedule 1 – Dictionary and interpretation  
1. 
Dictionary 
ACCC means the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission. 
Act means the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth). 
Agreements means any contract, arrangement or understanding, including any contract, 
arrangement or understanding to renew, amend, vary or extend any contract, 
arrangement or understanding.  
Approved Audit Plan means the plan approved by the ACCC in accordance with the 
terms of this Undertaking, by which the Approved Independent Auditor will audit and 
report upon compliance with this Undertaking. 
Approved Business Sale Agreement means the standard form contract for the 
divestiture of the Unsold Business which has been approved by the ACCC in accordance 
with the terms of this Undertaking.  
Approved Divestiture Agent means the person approved by the ACCC and appointed 
under clause 10 of this Undertaking. 
Approved Independent Auditor means the person approved by the ACCC and 
appointed under clause 9 of this Undertaking. 
Approved Independent Manager means the person approved by the ACCC and 
appointed under clause 8 of this Undertaking. 
Approved Marketing and Sale Plan means the plan approved by the ACCC in 
accordance with the terms of this Undertaking, by which the Approved Divestiture Agent 
will market and effect the divestiture of the Unsold Business. 
Approved Purchaser means the person approved by the ACCC under clause 6 of this 
Undertaking. 
Approved Sale and Purchase Agreement means the contract approved by the ACCC 
in accordance with the terms of this Undertaking, by which the D&D will divest the 
Divestiture Businesses to the Approved Purchaser and Approved Purchaser will acquire 
the Divestiture Business from D&D. 
Approved Separation and Management Plan means the plan approved by the ACCC 
in accordance with the terms of this Undertaking, by which the Approved Independent 
Manager will: 
a) 
separate the Divestiture Business from any business to be retained by 
D&D; and  
b) 
manage and operate the Divestiture Business independently of D&D and 
any retained business. 
Approved Transitional Supply Agreement means any agreement, for the supply of 
goods or services (other than Technical Assistance) by D&D to the Approved Purchaser, 
approved by the ACCC in accordance with the terms of this Undertaking. 


 
32 
 
Approved Transitional Technical Assistance Agreement means any agreement, for 
the supply of Technical Assistance by D&D to the Approved Purchaser, approved by the 
ACCC in accordance with the terms of this Undertaking.  
Approved Terms of Appointment means the terms of appointment for the Approved 
Independent Manager, Approved Independent Auditor or Approved Divestiture Agent, as 
applicable, as approved by the ACCC in accordance with the terms of this Undertaking. 
Associated Entity has the meaning given by section 50AAA of the Corporations Act. 
Audit Report has the meaning given to it in clause 9.12 of this Undertaking. 
Business Day means a day other than a Saturday or Sunday on which banks are open 
for business generally in the Australian Capital Territory.  
Change of Control means: 
 
the assignment or other transfer of the legal or beneficial ownership of some or 
all of the share capital of D&D to any other person or entity that may impact 
compliance with this Undertaking in its entirety; or 
 
the sale or transfer of any assets necessary, or which may be necessary, to 
enable D&D to continue to comply with this Undertaking in its entirety. 
Commencement Date means the date described in clause 3.1 of this Undertaking. 
Control Date means the date on which the Proposed Acquisition is completed.  
Consents means any Government Consents or Third Party Consents. 
Corporations Act means the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth). 
Divestiture Business means the items described in Schedule 4 to this Undertaking. 
D&D means the entities referred to in clause 1.1 of this Undertaking.  
Electronic Lodgment Network or ELN has the meaning given in the Appendix to the 
Electronic Conveyancing (Adoption of National Law) Act 2012 (NSW).  
Electronic Lodgment Network Operator or ELNO has the meaning given in the 
Appendix to the Electronic Conveyancing (Adoption of National Law) Act 2012 (NSW).  
Entities Connected has the meaning given by section 64B of the Corporations Act. 
Establishment Audit has the meaning given to it in clause 9.13(a) of this Undertaking. 
Government Consents means any consents from any government agency required for 
the assignment, novation, sale, sub-licensing or transfer of any assets, licences, permits, 
approval or contracts required for the operation of the Divestiture Business. 
Holding Company has the meaning given by section 9 of the Corporations Act.  
Initial Sale Period is defined in Confidential Schedule 5 to this Undertaking. 
Link Group means Link Administration Holdings Limited ACN 120 964 098, together with 
its subsidiaries.  


 
33 
 
Material Change means any change to the structure, attributes, extent or operations of 
the Divestiture Business or product or service sold by a Divestiture Business that may 
affect, or impact on, the competitiveness of the Divestiture Business. 
Material Contract means any Agreement that is necessary for the operation of the 
Divestiture Business.  
PEXA means PEXA Group Limited ACN 629 193 764. 
Proposed Acquisition is defined in clause 2 of this Undertaking. 
Proposed Divestiture Agent means a person named in a Proposed Divestiture Notice. 
Proposed Divestiture Agent Notice has the meaning given to it in clause 10.3 of this 
Undertaking. 
Proposed Independent Auditor means a person named in a Proposed Independent 
Auditor Notice. 
Proposed Independent Auditor Notice has the meaning given to it in clause 9.2 of this 
Undertaking. 
Proposed Independent Manager means a person named in a Proposed Independent 
Manager Notice. 
Proposed Independent Manager Notice has the meaning given to it in clause 8.2 of 
this Undertaking. 
Proposed Purchaser means a person named in a Proposed Purchaser Notice. 
Proposed Purchaser Notice has the meaning given to it in clause 6.2 of this 
Undertaking.  
Public Mergers Register means the ACCC’s public register of merger clearances, 
available at www.accc.gov.au.   
Public Section 87B Undertakings Register means the ACCC’s public register of 
section 87B undertakings, available at www.accc.gov.au.  
Related Bodies Corporate has the meaning given to it by section 50 of the Corporations 
Act. 
Related Entities has the meaning given to it by section 9 of the Corporations Act. 
Related Parties has the meaning given to it by section 228 of the Corporations Act. 
Subsidiary has the meaning given by section 9 of the Corporations Act. 
Target or Link means Link Administration Holdings Limited ACN 120 964 098. 
Technical Assistance includes advising on technical knowledge documentation, 
supporting the Approved Purchaser on acquiring specific assets necessary for the 
ongoing conduct of the Divestiture Business, providing staff with suitable experience and 
skills to assist and/or advice on technical issues, assisting in training for the Approved 
Purchaser’s staff, and providing guidance on regulatory and legal aspects relating to the 
transfer of or application for licences.  


 
34 
 
Third Party Consents means any Consent from any entity that is not a government 
agency required for the assignment, novation, sale, sub-licensing or transfer of any 
assets, licences, permits, approval or contracts required for the operation of the 
Divestiture Business. 
Transferred Personnel has the meaning given to it in clause 5.7 of this Undertaking. 
Undertaking is a reference to all provisions of this document, including its schedules and 
as varied from time to time under section 87B of the Act. 
Undertaking Appointment means the Approved Independent Manager, the Approved 
Independent Auditor or the Approved Divestiture Agent, as applicable. 
Undertaking Signatories has the meaning given to it in clause 1.1 of this Undertaking. 
Unsold Business has the meaning given to it in clause 10.1 of this Undertaking. 
 
2. 
Interpretation 
2.1 
In the interpretation of this Undertaking, the following provisions apply unless the 
context otherwise requires: 
(a) a reference to this Undertaking includes all of the provisions of this document 
including its schedules; 
(b) headings are inserted for convenience only and do not affect the 
interpretation of this Undertaking;  
(c) if the day on which any act, matter or thing is to be done under this 
Undertaking is not a Business Day, the act, matter or thing must be done on 
the next Business Day;  
(d) a reference in this Undertaking to any law, legislation or legislative provision 
includes any statutory modification, amendment or re-enactment, and any 
subordinate legislation or regulations issued under that legislation or 
legislative provision;  
(e) a reference in this Undertaking to any company includes its Related Bodies 
Corporate; 
(f) a reference in this Undertaking to any agreement or document is to that 
agreement or document as amended, novated, supplemented or replaced; 
(g) a reference to a clause, part, schedule or attachment is a reference to a 
clause, part, schedule or attachment of or to this Undertaking; 
(h) an expression importing a natural person includes any company, trust, 
partnership, joint venture, association, body corporate or governmental 
agency; 
(i) where a word or phrase is given a defined meaning, another part of speech 
or other grammatical form in respect of that word or phrase has a 
corresponding meaning; 
(j) a word which denotes the singular also denotes the plural, a word which 
denotes the plural also denotes the singular, and a reference to any gender 
also denotes the other genders; 


 
35 
 
(k) a reference to the words 'such as', 'including', 'particularly' and similar 
expressions is to be construed without limitation; 
(l) a construction that would promote the purpose - or object - underlying the 
Undertaking (whether expressly stated or not) will be preferred to a 
construction that would not promote that purpose or object; 
(m) material not forming part of this Undertaking may be considered to: 
(i) confirm the meaning of a clause is the ordinary meaning conveyed by 
the text of the clause, taking into account its context in the Undertaking 
and the competition concerns intended to be addressed by the 
Undertaking and the clause in question; or 
(ii) determine the meaning of the clause when the ordinary meaning 
conveyed by the text of the clause, taking into account its context in the 
Undertaking and the purpose or object underlying the Undertaking, leads 
to a result that does not promote the purpose or object underlying the 
Undertaking; 
(n) in determining whether consideration should be given to any material in 
accordance with paragraph (m), or in considering any weight to be given to 
any such material, regard must be had, in addition to any other relevant 
matters, to the: 
(i) effect that reliance on the ordinary meaning conveyed by the text of the 
clause would, have (taking into account its context in the Undertaking 
and whether that meaning promotes the purpose or object of the 
Undertaking); and 
(ii) need to ensure that the result of the Undertaking is to completely 
address any ACCC competition concerns; 
(o) the ACCC may authorise the ACCC Mergers Review Committee, a member 
of the ACCC or a member of the ACCC staff, to exercise a decision making 
function under this Undertaking on its behalf and that authorisation may be 
subject to any conditions which the ACCC may impose; 
(p) in performing its obligations under this Undertaking, D&D will do everything 
reasonably within its power to ensure that its performance of those 
obligations is done in a manner which is consistent with promoting the 
purpose and object of this Undertaking; 
(q) a reference to: 
(i) a thing (including, but not limited to, a chose in action or other right) 
includes a part of that thing; 
(ii) a party includes its successors and permitted assigns; and 
(iii) a monetary amount is in Australian dollars. 
  


 
36 
 
Schedule 2 – Proposed Purchaser Notice Form 
 
This form sets out the information required by the ACCC in relation to a Proposed 
Purchaser. 
 
Please note in relation to information given pursuant to this form, giving false or 
misleading information is a serious offence.   
1. 
Method of Delivery to the ACCC 
The completed form with requested documents attached may be provided to the ACCC 
using the following method: 
Email  
Subject line:  
Proposed Purchaser Notice – D&D s87B Undertaking  
Address: 
mergers@accc.gov.au 
Attention: 
Executive General Manager – Merger, Exemptions & Digital Division  
 
With an email copy sent to: 
Address:  
mergersru@accc.gov.au 
Attention:  
Director, Remedies Unit - Policy, Coordination & Remedies Branch, 
Merger, Exemptions & Digital Division  
2. 
Information Required 
The ACCC requires the following information in order to assess a Proposed Purchaser. 
2.1 
Proposed Purchaser details: 
(a) Name of the Proposed Purchaser; 
(b) Address; 
(c) 
Contact name; 
(d) Telephone number; 
(e) Other contact details. 
2.2 
A submission containing the following information: 
(a) a description of the business carried on by the Proposed Purchaser 
including the locations in which the Proposed Purchaser carries on its 
business; 
(b) details of the Proposed Purchaser’s experience in the relevant market(s); 
(c) 
the names of the owner(s) and the director(s) of the Proposed Purchaser;  
(d) details of any of the following types of relationships between D&D and the 
Proposed Purchaser or confirmation that no such relationship exists whether 
within Australia or outside of Australia: 


 
37 
 
(i) 
D&D and the Proposed Purchaser are Associated Entities;  
(ii) 
D&D is an Entity Connected with the Proposed Purchaser; 
(iii) 
the Proposed Purchaser is an Entity Connected with D&D; 
(iv) 
D&D and the Proposed Purchaser are Related Entities; 
(v) 
D&D and the Proposed Purchaser are Related Parties; 
(vi) 
any Related Party, Related Entity or Entity Connected with D&D is a 
Related Party, Related Entity or Entity Connected with the Proposed 
Purchaser; 
(vii) D&D and the Proposed Purchaser have a contractual relationship or 
had one within the past three years, other than those attached to this 
form; 
(viii) the Proposed Purchaser is a supplier of D&D or has been in the past 
three years; 
(ix) 
D&D is a supplier of the Proposed Purchaser or has been in the past 
three years; and 
(x) 
any other relationship between D&D and the Proposed Purchaser 
that allows one to affect the business decisions of the other; 
(e) a section addressing the following factors, including any information adverse 
to the Proposed Purchaser, in the power, possession or control of D&D: 
(i) 
whether the draft sale and purchase agreement is consistent with 
this Undertaking;  
(i) 
whether the Proposed Purchaser will complete the transaction as 
contemplated by the draft sale and purchase agreement;  
(ii) 
whether the Proposed Purchaser is of good financial standing;  
(iii) 
whether the Proposed Purchaser has an intention to maintain and 
operate the Divestiture Business as a going concern; 
(iv) 
whether the Proposed Purchaser is able to conduct the Divestiture 
Business effectively;  
(v) 
whether the divestiture of the Divestiture Business to the Proposed 
Purchaser will address any competition concerns of the ACCC, 
including any relationships (including but not limited to shareholding 
interests, other proprietary interests, contracts, arrangements or 
understandings) between the Proposed Purchaser and other entities 
in a relevant market, and the likely long-term viability and 
competitiveness of the Divestiture Business under the ownership of 
the Proposed Purchaser; and 
(vi) 
any other matters that may affect the Proposed Purchaser’s capacity 
or ability to acquire or operate the Divestiture Business, such as 
outstanding legal action or disputes. 
2.3 
Please also attach to this form: 


 
38 
 
(a) the finalised draft of the sale and purchase agreement for approval by the 
ACCC in accordance with this Undertaking.  
(b) the finalised draft of any transitional technical assistance agreement for 
approval by the ACCC in accordance with this Undertaking. 
(c) 
the finalised draft of any transitional supply agreement for approval by the 
ACCC in accordance with this Undertaking. 
(d) any documents required to support the information provided by D&D 
pursuant to this form. 


 
39 
 
Schedule 3 – Undertaking Appointment Form 
 
This form sets out the information required by the ACCC in relation to proposed 
appointment of the following positions under the Undertaking: 
 
Independent Manager;  
 
Independent Auditor; or 
 
Divestiture Agent 
(the Undertaking Appointment). 
This form is to be used for each of the above appointments. 
 
Please note in relation to information given pursuant to this form, giving false or 
misleading information is a serious offence.   
1. 
Method of Delivery to the ACCC 
The completed form with requested documents attached may be provided to the ACCC 
using the following method: 
Email  
Subject line:  
Proposed Independent Manager/Independent Auditor/Divestiture Agent 
Notice – D&D s 87B Undertaking 
Address: 
mergers@accc.gov.au 
Attention: 
Executive General Manager – Mergers, Exemptions & Digital Division 
 
With an email copy sent to: 
Address:  
mergersru@accc.gov.au 
Attention:  
Director, Remedies Unit - Policy, Coordination & Remedies Branch, 
Mergers, Exemptions & Digital Division 
2. 
Information Required 
The ACCC requires the following information in order to assess a proposed Independent 
Manager, Independent Auditor or Divestiture Agent (i.e. the relevant Undertaking 
Appointment). 
2.1 
Proposed Undertaking Appointment details: 
(a) the name of the Proposed Undertaking Appointment; and 
(b) the name of the proposed Undertaking Appointment’s employer and contact 
details including: 
(i) 
Address; 
(ii) 
Contact name; 
(iii) 
Telephone number; 


 
40 
 
(iv) 
Other contact details. 
2.2 
A submission containing the following information: 
(a) details of the Undertaking Appointment’s qualifications and experience 
relevant to his or her proposed role pursuant to the Undertaking; 
(b) the names of the owner(s) and the director(s) of the Undertaking 
Appointment’s employer; 
(c) 
details of any of the following types of relationships between D&D and the 
Undertaking Appointment or the Undertaking Appointment’s employer or 
confirmation that no such relationship exists whether within Australia or 
outside of Australia: 
(i) 
D&D and the Undertaking Appointment’s employer are Associated 
Entities; 
(ii) 
D&D is an Entity Connected with the Undertaking Appointment’s 
employer; 
(iii) 
The Undertaking Appointment’s employer is an Entity Connected 
with D&D; 
(iv) 
D&D and the Undertaking Appointment’s employer are Related 
Entities; 
(v) 
D&D and the Undertaking Appointment’s employer are Related 
Parties; 
(vi) 
any Related Party, Related Entity or Entity Connected with D&D is a 
Related Party, Related Entity or Entity Connected with the 
Undertaking Appointment; 
(vii) D&D and the Undertaking Appointment or the Undertaking 
Appointment’s employer have a contractual relationship or had one 
within the past three years, other than those attached to this form; 
(viii) the Undertaking Appointment’s employer is a supplier of D&D or has 
been in the past three years; 
(ix) 
D&D is a supplier of the Undertaking Appointment’s employer or has 
been in the past three years; and 
(x) 
any other relationship between D&D and the Undertaking 
Appointment or the Undertaking Appointment’s employer that allows 
one to affect the business decisions of the other;  
(d) details of any existing or past contractual relationships between the 
Undertaking Appointment or the Undertaking Appointment's employer and 
the ACCC within the past three years. 
2.3 
A document outlining the terms of appointment for the proposed Undertaking 
Appointment. This should identify the basis on which fees will be paid, including 
disclosure of any proposed performance-based fees.   


 
41 
 
3. 
Specific Information required for Undertaking Appointments 
The ACCC requires the below information in relation to the relevant Undertaking 
Appointment.  
Proposed Independent Auditor 
3.1 
A finalised draft audit plan for the Divestiture Business, drafted by the Proposed 
Independent Auditor and outlining (to the extent possible) the Proposed 
Independent Auditor’s plans in regard to the establishment audit and the Audit 
Report. 
Proposed Divestiture Agent 
3.2 
The finalised draft business sale agreement drafted by the Proposed Divestiture 
Agent in consultation with D&D. The draft business sale agreement is to provide 
for the divestiture of the Unsold Business. 
3.3 
The Proposed Divestiture Agent’s draft marketing and sale plan for the Unsold 
Business. 
Proposed Independent Manager  
3.4 
The finalised draft separation and management plan for the Divestiture Business 
detailing the measures and timing to be implemented by D&D and the Approved 
Independent Manager in order to fulfil D&D’s and the Approved Independent 
Manager’s obligations pursuant to this Undertaking. This plan is to be drafted by 
the Proposed Independent Manager in consultation with D&D to achieve the 
objectives of the Undertaking including: 
(a) the intended mode of operation of the Divestiture Business until completion 
of its divestiture; 
 
(b) separation measures to ensure the Divestiture Business is operated in a 
manner which is financially and operationally separate from D&D, including 
the;  
(i) 
separation of the books and records of the Divestiture Business from 
those of D&D;  
(ii) 
severance of the Divestiture Business’s participation in any private 
shared information technology networks, to the extent possible 
without compromising the viability of the Divestiture Business; 
(iii) 
implementation of specific electronic, information and physical 
security measures to maintain the confidentiality of any competitively 
sensitive information of the Divestiture Business; and 
(iv) 
severance of arrangements to share personnel and plant between 
the Divestiture Business and any businesses to be retained by D&D, 
to the extent possible without compromising the viability of the 
Divestiture Business; 
(c) 
details of contracts for the provision of goods or services to the Divestiture 
Business which will expire after the completion of the divestiture of the 
Divestiture Business to the Approved Purchaser and the actions which will 
be taken to ensure they are replaced, renewed and/or renegotiated on 
commercial terms favourable to the Divestiture Business;  


 
42 
 
(d) personnel planning to maintain appropriate personnel levels and ensure that 
the Divestiture Business has access to all personnel necessary to operate 
the Divestiture Business;  
(e) any Material Changes to the Divestiture Business required in order to fulfil 
D&D’s and the Approved Independent Manager’s obligations pursuant to the 
Undertaking; 
(f) 
the cooperation required from the Independent Manager with D&D in 
relation to the divestiture of the Divestiture Business, including: 
(i) 
the activities to be conducted by the Independent Manager that are 
necessary for the effective operation of the Divestiture Business, 
having regard to the nature of the Divestiture Business (including the 
extent to which the Divestiture Business already has a management 
structure in place prior to the proposed acquisition that will be 
retained during the hold separate period);  
(ii) 
the method by which due diligence information, site visits and 
personnel interviews by and to prospective purchasers of the 
Divestiture Business will be managed;  
(iii) 
the method by which the Independent Manager and D&D will 
preserve the confidentiality of the Divestiture Business’s 
competitively sensitive information from D&D and its advisers 
throughout this process; and 
(iv) 
a protocol whereby the Approved Independent Manager can provide 
any information requested by D&D without disclosing the details of 
the Divestiture Business’s competitively sensitive information to 
D&D. 
 


 
44 
 
The following non-controlling interest held by 
The Search People Pty Ltd:  
 
Legal First Pty Ltd ABN 81 149 872 
453 (ACN 149 872 453) 
 
 
 
Assets of Divestiture Business 
 
The key assets of the Divestiture Business are set out below:  
 
Category 
Details of assets 
Intellectual property  
Australian trademarks:  
Application/ 
Registration 
number
Owner  
1409552 
The Search People Pty Ltd   
1409554 
The Search People Pty Ltd   
912919 
GlobalX Information Pty Ltd (renewal 
required)
1001730
Dye & Durham Information Pty Ltd 
1045366
Dye & Durham Information Pty Ltd 
1355734
Dye & Durham Information Pty Ltd
1512092
Dye & Durham Information Pty Ltd 
1512096
Dye & Durham Information Pty Ltd 
902958 
GlobalX Information Services Pty Ltd 
(renewal required) 
914635 
Dye & Durham Information Pty Ltd  
1444887 
Dye & Durham Information Pty Ltd 
1490820 
Dye & Durham Information Pty Ltd  
1774845 
Dye & Durham Solutions Pty Ltd  
1774872 
Dye & Durham Solutions Pty Ltd  
635669 
Dye & Durham Solutions Pty Ltd 
1910150 
Dye & Durham Solutions Pty Ltd 
1910151 
Dye & Durham Solutions Pty Ltd 
2138269 
Dye & Durham Solutions Pty Ltd 
(pending)  
1698516 
ID Secure Pty Ltd  
2138270 
The Search People Pty Ltd 
1934639 
Dye & Durham Terrain Pty Ltd  
1971011 
Dye & Durham Terrain Pty Ltd  
2032899 
Dye & Durham Property Pty Ltd  
2032898 
Dye & Durham Property Pty Ltd  
1094371 
Dye & Durham Property Pty Ltd  
1094372 
Dye & Durham Property Pty Ltd  
1675920 
Dye & Durham Solutions Pty Ltd  
1774845 
Dye & Durham Solutions Pty Ltd  
1774872 
Dye & Durham Solutions Pty Ltd  
2151491 
Dye & Durham Solutions Pty Ltd 
2151492 
Dye & Durham Solutions Pty Ltd 
2151493 
Dye & Durham Solutions Pty Ltd 
2171001 
Dye & Durham Solutions Pty Ltd 
2242287 
Dye & Durham Solutions Pty Ltd 
(pending) 
2242291 
Dye & Durham Solutions Pty Ltd 
(pending) 


 
45 
 
2242288 
Dye & Durham Solutions Pty Ltd 
(pending)
2148230
Dye & Durham Corporation 
 
Australian patents:  
Application Number 2018282255 (Filed) 
 
Material unregistered intellectual property rights:  
Any copyright in any software applications (excluding open 
source software) required for the operation of the Divestiture 
Business. For further detail, see Confidential Schedule 4A.  
  
Domain names:  
atom-legal.com.au 
aussearch.com.au 
ayresandbritton.com.au 
checkcustomer.com.au 
checklicense.net 
checkthatbike.com.au 
checkthatboat.com.au 
checkthatbusiness.com 
checkthatbusiness.com.au 
checkthatcompany.com.au 
checkthathouse.com.au 
checkthatland.com 
checkthatland.com.au 
checkthatproperty.com 
checkthatproperty.com.au 
checkthecar.com.au 
checkthevehicle.com.au 
checkyourcustomer.com.au 
checkyouremployee.com.au 
csolutions.com.au 
dixonlegal.com.au 
dyedurhamlegal.com 
elawforms.com 
elawforms.com.au 
elawpublishing.com.au 
globalx.co 
globalx.co.nz 
globalx.com 
globalx.com.au 
globalx.net.au 
globalxidsecure.com.au 
globalxlegal.com.au 
globalxterrain.co.uk 
globalxterrain.com 
globalxterrain.com.au 
gxs.com.au 
intelconcepts.com.au 
knowyouremployees.com.au 
llbsearching.com.au 
mattercenter.com.au 
mattercentre.com.au 
openpractice.com 
openpractice.com.au 


 
47 
 
agreements with government agencies, and related 
documentation primarily related to, or required for the 
ownership and operation of the Divestiture Business, 
including agreements Dye & Durham Australia has in place 
with local, state and federal government agencies commonly 
known as Information Broker Agreements (IAB).  
 
For further detail on the IABs, see Confidential Schedule 4A.  
Employees  
At the option of the Approved Purchaser, the transfer of all 
employees engaged in the Divestiture Business who are 
wholly or primarily engaged in, or necessary for, the 
operation of the Divestiture Business and who consent to the 
transfer of their employment. 
Business Records  
All customer and vendor lists, and business, financial and 
legal records, books, documents, literature, files, information 
and materials primarily related to, or required for the 
ownership and operation of, the Divestiture Business.  
Customer records  
All records of customers (current and historical), price lists, 
catalogues and mailing lists which are primarily related to, or 
required for the ownership and operation of the Divestiture 
Business.  
Material supply and 
distribution contracts  
All material contracts, sales orders, purchase orders, 
instruments and other commitments, obligations and 
arrangements primarily related to, or required for the 
ownership and operation of, the Divestiture Business.  
For the avoidance of doubt, this includes all key agreements 
with customers, suppliers, financial institutions and Electronic 
Lodgment Network Operators. 
Other assets  
All advertising, marketing, sales and promotional materials 
primarily required for the ownership and operation of the 
Divestiture Business and any equipment, fixtures, personal 
computers, plant, machinery, vehicles and other tangible 
assets, including leasing arrangements for any such assets, 
used primarily in relation to, or required for the ownership 
and operation of, the Divestiture Business.  
Inventory  
Inventory of the Divestiture Business that exists as at the 
date of completion of the divestiture and is not already sold 
to a third party will be transferred to the Approved Purchaser. 
 
 
 
1. For the avoidance of doubt, the Divestiture Business does not include the following 
Australian subsidiaries:  
(a) The acquisition vehicle for the Target (D&D Acquirer) and the Australian 
Holding Company of D&D Acquirer (Link Acquisitions Holdings Australia Pty 
Ltd).   D&D Acquirer is an unlisted Australian proprietary company that has 
not conducted business and does not own any assets or have any liabilities 
other than in connection with its incorporation, the entry into transaction 
documents in connection with the Scheme and the taking of such other 
actions as are necessary to facilitate the implementation of the Scheme 
(including actions in relation to the incurrence of costs, fees and expenses in 
connection with the Scheme). 


 
48 
 
(b) GlobalX (UK) Limited and its subsidiaries which are owned by Dye & 
Durham Information Pty Ltd (previously known as GlobalX Information Pty 
Ltd). The business of GlobalX (UK) Limited and its subsidiaries has been 
integrated into Dye & Durham UK’s business and will be structurally 
separated from the Divestiture Business prior to divestment.  
 
 
 


 
49 
 
Figure 1 
Dye & Durham Australia organisational structure
 


 
50 
 
 
 
 


 
51 
 
 
Confidential Schedule 4A 
 
 
 
 
  


 
53 
 
Confidential Schedule 5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
