 
Page 1 of 10 
 
Public Competition Assessment 
8 November 2022 
Dye & Durham - proposed acquisition of Link 
 
The ACCC’s decision 
1. 
On 8 September 2022 the ACCC announced its decision not to oppose the 
proposed acquisition by Dye & Durham Corporation (D&D) of Link Administration 
Holdings (Link) (the proposed acquisition) after accepting a section 87B 
undertaking from Dye & Durham Limited (D&D Limited) and Dye & Durham 
Holdings Pty Ltd (D&D Holdings) (the Undertaking).  
2. 
The Undertaking required D&D Limited and D&D Holdings to divest all of D&D’s 
existing Australian businesses (including all assets, licences, agreements and 
other tangible and intangible property held by those businesses) to a purchaser 
to be approved by the ACCC. 
3. 
The ACCC considered that the proposed acquisition, taking into account the 
Undertaking, would have been unlikely to contravene section 50 of the 
Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the Act). Section 50 prohibits acquisitions 
that would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of substantially 
lessening competition in any market. 
4. 
The ACCC considered the competitive effects of the proposed acquisition in 
markets for the supply of:  
 
electronic lodgment network (ELN) services  
 
information search and broking services, and/or 
 
practice management software (PMS).  
5. 
Without the Undertaking, the ACCC considered that the proposed acquisition 
would have aligned PEXA, a near monopoly supplier of ELN services, with D&D, 
a significant supplier of information search and broking services and PMS. The 
ACCC identified strong concerns that this alignment would have allowed each of 
PEXA and D&D to engage in mutual preferential dealing that would have 
hindered competition in the conveyancing workflow.  


 
Page 2 of 10 
6. 
On 23 September 2022, Link and D&D Limited announced that the proposed 
acquisition would not be proceeding. Following these announcements, D&D 
Limited and D&D Holdings sought the ACCC’s consent to withdraw the 
Undertaking and, pursuant to s 87B(2) of the Act and clause 4.1 of the 
Undertaking, the ACCC gave consent to the withdrawal of the Undertaking in its 
entirety on 20 October 2022.  
7. 
This Public Competition Assessment outlines reasons for the decision by the 
ACCC not to oppose the proposed acquisition, taking into account the 
Undertaking. Although the proposed acquisition did not proceed and the 
Undertaking was subsequently withdrawn, the ACCC considers it is appropriate 
to publish a Public Competition Assessment in this matter given the significant 
preliminary competition concerns identified by the ACCC prior to accepting the 
Undertaking. 
8. 
Please note that this and other public competition assessments are subject to 
the following qualifications: 
 
The ACCC considers each transaction on a case-by-case basis and so the 
analysis and decision outlined in one assessment will not necessarily 
reflect the ACCC’s view of another transaction. 
 
As assessments are relatively brief and do not refer to confidential 
information, assessments do not necessarily set out all of the issues and 
information considered by the ACCC.  
The parties and the transaction 
The acquirer: D&D 
9. 
D&D is an international provider of cloud-based software and technology 
solutions to legal and business professionals, including lawyers and 
conveyancers. D&D acquired SAI GlobalX’s Property Division in January 2021 
and GlobalX in July 2021. D&D’s core products and services relevant to the 
proposed acquisition include:  
 
Information search and broking services: including property, commercial 
and personal information.  
 
Practice management software (including conveyancing and legal practice 
management software): including Matter Centre, Conveyancing Manager, 
Conveyancing Directory, Open Practice, SettsPlus and Atom as well as 
ancillary solutions that support conveyancing transactions such as 
verification of identity (VoI) and digital signing software.  
 
Manual property settlement services: including physical property 
settlement attendance, stamp duty calculations and manual stamping, 
lodgment and registration. 
The target: Link 
10. Link is a technology-enabled provider of outsourced administration services for 
superannuation fund administration and corporate markets, as well as related 


 
Page 3 of 10 
services including data management, analytics, digital communication and 
stakeholder education and advice. Link (via Link Property Group Pty Ltd) also 
holds a ~42.77% shareholding in PEXA, which D&D would have acquired 
through the proposed acquisition. 
PEXA  
11. PEXA principally operates as an Electronic Lodgment Network Operator 
(ELNO), through its ELN product, PEXA Exchange. An ELNO provides and 
operates an ELN, which enables users (also known as subscribers) to complete 
property lodgments and settlements electronically through a digital process 
known as e-conveyancing.  
12. The PEXA Exchange is integrated with six land titles offices and five state 
revenue offices for the lodgment of documents, as well as the Reserve Bank of 
Australia, the Australian Taxation Office and major financial institutions to 
facilitate financial settlement. 
13. The PEXA Exchange was born out of a 2010 Council of Australian Governments 
initiative to transition property lodgment away from paper-based to more efficient 
digital processes. The ACCC considered PEXA is a near monopoly provider of 
ELN services. It is the only fully operational ELNO in Australia and in states 
where e-conveyancing has been mandated, PEXA completes almost all 
transactions.1  
14. PEXA was listed on the Australian Securities Exchange in 2021 and its largest 
shareholders are Link Property Group Pty Ltd (42.77%) and Commonwealth 
Bank of Australia (23.9%). No other shareholder has a shareholding greater than 
10%. 
The transaction 
15. D&D, via Link Acquisition Australia Pty Ltd (a wholly owned Australian 
incorporated subsidiary of D&D), proposed to acquire 100% of the issued share 
capital in Link by way of a scheme of arrangement.  
16. The proposed acquisition was due to complete on or before 30 September 2022. 
However, on 23 September 2022, Link and D&D Limited each issued public 
statements confirming that the proposed acquisition would not be proceeding.  
Review timeline  
17. The following table outlines the timeline of key events for the ACCC in this 
matter. 
Date 
Event 
1 March 2022 
The ACCC commenced a review of the proposed 
acquisition under its Merger Process Guidelines. 
 
1 1. To date, Victoria, Western Australia, New South Wales and South Australia have mandated e-
conveyancing. Queensland and Australian Capital Territory have enabled e-conveyancing but have 
not mandated its use. The Northern Territory and Tasmania have not implemented e-conveyancing.  


 
Page 4 of 10 
10 May 2022 
The ACCC requested additional information from D&D. The 
timeline was suspended pending receipt of this information. 
16 June 2022 
The ACCC issued a Statement of Issues regarding the 
proposed acquisition.  
4 August 2022 
The ACCC commenced market consultation on the draft 
proposed s87B undertaking. 
8 September 2022 
The ACCC announced it would not oppose the proposed 
acquisition following the acceptance of the Undertaking by 
the ACCC.  
23 September 2022 
Link and D&D Limited announced that the proposed 
acquisition would not be proceeding. 
20 October 2022 
Following a request from D&D Limited and D&D Holdings, 
the ACCC consented to the withdrawal of the Undertaking in 
its entirety.  
Market inquiries 
18. The ACCC conducted market inquiries with a range of industry participants, 
including competitors, potential competitors, customers, industry bodies, 
regulatory agencies and other interested parties. Submissions were sought in 
relation to the potential competition issues arising from the proposed acquisition. 
The ACCC also conducted market consultation on the proposed section 87B 
undertaking.  
Statement of Issues 
19. On 16 June 2022 the ACCC published a Statement of Issues on the proposed 
acquisition. In the Statement of Issues, the ACCC stated its preliminary view that 
the proposed acquisition was likely to substantially lessen competition in one or 
more markets in the conveyancing workflow.  
Industry background 
The conveyancing workflow  
20. The steps in the conveyancing process are commonly referred to as “the 
conveyancing workflow”. While the specifics of the conveyancing process differ 
based on the type of transaction, as well as relevant state or territory laws, the 
ACCC understands that some of the key steps in a typical process include: 
 
Verification of Identity: the identity of the seller and buyer as the relevant 
transaction parties is confirmed. VoI software and an information search 
service may be used in the verification process. These tools may also 
integrate with the PMS of the lawyer or conveyancer engaged by the buyer 
and seller. 


 
Page 5 of 10 
 
Contract: a contract for sale is prepared. PMS may be used to generate a 
contract from a template library. This contract may also be automatically 
populated with integrated information search results (titles, plans, planning 
certificates etc). 
 
Listing: property is listed for sale. 
 
Due Diligence: buyer’s lawyer/conveyancer undertakes further searches 
using an information search service. 
 
Exchange: contracts are signed and exchanged between the buyer and 
seller. Electronic signature software may be used to sign the contracts, 
which may be integrated with the PMS of the lawyer/conveyancer. 
 
Deposit: buyer pays the deposit. 
 
Pre-settlement: buyer and financier undertake final due diligence/checks, 
possibly using an information search service. 
 
Settlement: buyer (or financier) transfers funds to seller and seller transfers 
title to buyer. This may occur electronically via an ELN, or the parties may 
meet to manually exchange contracts, titles and funds. If an ELN is used, 
the vendor’s conveyancer/solicitor will create a digital workspace using the 
ELNO’s platform and invitations to join the workspace will be sent to the 
financial institutions and purchaser’s conveyancer/solicitor to complete the 
transaction electronically. The ELNO workspace may also be integrated 
with the parties’ PMS or information search software. 
 
Lodgment: relevant conveyancing documents are lodged with the relevant 
regulatory authorities (manually or via an ELNO). 
21. Conveyancing is an efficiency driven process and the steps in the conveyancing 
workflow have become increasingly digitised in recent years. Application 
Programming Interfaces allow software integration, providing the seamless 
transfer of information between software at the various steps in the 
conveyancing workflow. Seamlessly integrating the steps in the conveyancing 
workflow increases the software value proposition for customers (typically 
lawyers and conveyancers) as it minimises duplicative manual processes.  
22. D&D and Australian Technology Innovators (ATI) have emerged as prominent 
vertically integrated suppliers of conveyancing workflow solutions, with product 
offerings applicable to most steps in the conveyancing workflow. These suppliers 
offer integration with their own product suite, as well as API integration with third 
parties.  
E-conveyancing and interoperability  
23. Digitisation of the conveyancing workflow has coincided with the advent of e-
conveyancing. E-conveyancing allows lawyers, conveyancers and financial 
institutions to transact through an ELN. ELNOs provide and operate ELNs which 
enable transacting parties or their representatives to collaborate electronically to 
complete property lodgments and settlements. Many Australian jurisdictions 


 
Page 6 of 10 
have mandated the use of an ELN to complete property settlement and lodgment 
transactions.  
24. Currently, all parties to an e-conveyancing transaction must use the same ELN. 
The existing infrastructure and regulatory regime do not yet enable parties using 
separate ELNs to exchange data to complete a transaction. This puts competing 
(and potential future) ELNOs at a significant disadvantage, as it makes it more 
difficult for them to attract subscribers. Absent interoperability between ELNs, 
PEXA’s position as the near monopoly supplier of ELN services is unlikely to 
change.  
25. If implemented, interoperability should enable the exchange of information 
between ELNs to allow participants to complete an electronic conveyancing 
transaction using different ELNOs. The current reform process has achieved 
certain milestones, including the amendments to the Electronic Conveyancing 
National Law (ECNL) to include a requirement for ELNOs to establish and 
maintain interoperability. However, the timeline for implementing interoperability 
is uncertain, and market feedback raised strong concerns about likely delays in 
the implementation of complete interoperability. Market participants also raised 
concerns regarding PEXA’s capacity to further frustrate certain aspects of the 
reform process. 
Other industry participants 
PMS suppliers 
26. In addition to D&D, other suppliers of PMS include ATI, LexisNexis, Thomson 
Reuters and Aderant. ATI is the largest supplier of conveyancing and legal PMS 
in Australia. Its associated software products include LEAP Legal Software and 
PracticeEvolve. 
Information search and broking services 
27. In addition to D&D, other “full service” suppliers of information broking services 
include InfoTrack (owned by ATI), Equifax, CITEC and Ilion. Suppliers with 
narrower offerings include DirectInfo, PsiGlobal and Hazlett.  
28. Lawyers and conveyancers also obtain information search results directly from 
regulatory authorities (e.g. state/territory land titles offices) and authorised 
resellers of information broking services (e.g. PEXA Plus).  
ELN services 
29. In addition to PEXA, Sympli Australia Pty Limited (Sympli) is approved to 
operate as an ELNO in multiple jurisdictions in Australia. ATI holds a 50% stake 
in Sympli. LEXTECH, owned by Purcell Partners is a potential third provider of 
ELN services. However, it is unclear whether LEXTECH will obtain relevant 
operational approvals to commence operations in the near future.   


 
Page 7 of 10 
Competition analysis 
Market definition  
30. The ACCC’s starting point for considering which markets would have been 
affected by the proposed acquisition was to identify any meaningful economic 
relationships between the parties. The ACCC then considered other actual or 
potential suppliers and customers of products or services supplied to or 
purchased by the parties that could have been affected by changes to their 
existing relationship following the proposed acquisition. 
31. In this matter, the ACCC considered that the proposed acquisition would have 
affected the vertical integration in the conveyancing workflow in light of the 
existing relationship between D&D and (noting Link’s ~43% shareholding) PEXA. 
The ACCC considered the competitive effects of the proposed acquisition in 
national and/or state-based markets for:  
 
the supply of ELN services  
 
the supply of information search and broking services, and/or  
 
the supply of PMS.  
Foreclosure of competition in one or more markets in the 
conveyancing workflow 
32. The ACCC considered that, in the absence of the Undertaking, the proposed 
acquisition would have resulted in the alignment of PEXA, a near monopoly 
provider of ELN services, with D&D, a significant provider of upstream services. 
This vertical alignment would have created incentives for each of D&D and 
PEXA to engage in preferential dealing conduct, resulting in the foreclosure of 
competition in one or more markets in the conveyancing workflow.  
33. The form of this conduct could include: 
 
PEXA degrading the quality of integration with PEXA for D&D’s rivals, or 
offering discounts on its ELN services only to D&D’s customers, and/or 
 
D&D refusing or diminishing integration of its software products with 
PEXA’s rival suppliers of ELN services, or offering discounts on its 
software on condition that those customers transact a minimum volume on 
PEXA’s ELN.  
Market power of D&D and PEXA 
34. The ACCC concluded that PEXA has market power in the supply of ELN 
services. PEXA is a near monopoly supplier, having benefited from a significant 
first mover advantage and continuing network effects. Absent the introduction of 
timely and effective interoperability between ELNs, the ACCC considered PEXA 
is likely to retain its near monopoly position.  
35. The ACCC did not reach a concluded view as to whether D&D has market power 
in the supply of PMS and information search and broking services. However, the 


 
Page 8 of 10 
ACCC considered that D&D is a significant supplier of these upstream software 
services and has a particularly significant position in the supply of certain 
segments of PMS, especially in Victoria and Western Australia. The ACCC also 
concluded that D&D would be likely to acquire (or increase existing) market 
power as a result of preferential treatment by PEXA following the proposed 
acquisition, in the absence of the Undertaking.  
D&D and PEXA’s incentives to engage in foreclosure conduct   
36. The ACCC considered that the alignment of D&D and PEXA would have 
provided PEXA with incentives to favour D&D’s information broking and PMS 
services (to the detriment of D&D’s rivals), in the absence of the Undertaking.  
37. Given both its financial interest in PEXA and the reciprocal benefit it would have 
been likely to receive from PEXA’s conduct, D&D would have had strong 
incentives to favour PEXA’s ELN (to the detriment of PEXA’s emerging rivals).  
38. Although PEXA would not have obtained an immediate benefit from favouring 
D&D’s software, by doing so it would have been likely to materially elevate 
D&D’s market position, which would have been likely to have longer term 
benefits.  
39. The key threat to PEXA’s near monopoly position stems from planned reforms 
compelling interoperability between ELNOs. By ‘locking in’ a large proportion of 
law and conveyancing firms to an integrated package of PMS and ELN services 
prior to interoperability occurring, and by concurrently reducing the size and 
scale of alternative suppliers of information search and broking services and 
PMS, PEXA would have been in a much stronger position to preserve its near 
monopoly position in ELN services into the future.  
40. Further, while D&D’s post-acquisition stake in PEXA would have been a minority 
shareholding, it would have been a substantial stake and likely enable D&D to 
exert significant influence on PEXA’s strategy and behaviour.  
Likely effect of foreclosure conduct  
41. The ACCC considered that the foreclosure resulting from the mutual preferential 
dealing described above would be likely to result in a substantial lessening of 
competition in one or more markets in the conveyancing workflow. The effects 
would also likely be self-reinforcing, raising barriers to entry and expansion at 
various levels of the conveyancing workflow. The ACCC was particularly 
concerned that, over time, the conduct would: 
 
entrench PEXA’s market position in the supply of ELN services 
 
decrease competing PMS and information search service suppliers’ sales 
and access to scale efficiencies forcing them to raise their prices or exit, 
allowing D&D to raise its own prices for these services, and/or   
 
materially raise competing suppliers’ costs of entry and expansion within 
the conveyancing workflow, such that to compete effectively, suppliers 
would be required to provide an end-to offering.  


 
Page 9 of 10 
Limited constraint from the regulatory framework  
42. There is considerable uncertainty regarding the extent to which the existing and 
likely future regulatory framework under the ECNL could be relied upon to 
constrain PEXA and D&D’s conduct post-acquisition.  
43. Under the ECNL, ELNOs are required to comply with Operating Requirements 
which (amongst other things) require ELNOs to:  
 
provide equivalent access to parties seeking to integrate with its ELN, 
subject only to differences attributable to the type, level or class of 
integration with the ELN 
 
ensure that its ELN and any non-ELN businesses are structurally 
separated to limit the ELNO, and the related businesses, from obtaining an 
advantage over competitors as a result of the ELNO’s position, and  
 
set its service fees according to a publicly available and equitable pricing 
policy. 
44. In the context of PEXA’s near monopoly position and the significant structural 
change in the market, the ACCC was concerned this framework would be 
insufficient to constrain PEXA and a combined D&D-Link’s ability to engage in 
foreclosure conduct. 
Conclusion 
45. The ACCC concluded that, in the absence of the Undertaking, the proposed 
acquisition would have resulted in the alignment of D&D and PEXA. This 
alignment would have been likely to provide each of D&D and PEXA with the 
ability and incentive to engage in mutual preferential dealing that would have 
been likely to result in the foreclosure of competition in the conveyancing 
workflow.  
Undertaking 
46. To remedy the ACCC’s concerns, D&D Limited and D&D Holdings gave the 
ACCC a court enforceable undertaking in accordance with section 87B of the 
Act. Pursuant to the Undertaking, D&D Limited and D&D Holdings were required 
to divest D&D’s existing Australian businesses to a purchaser approved by the 
ACCC.  
Key obligations  
47. The key obligations in the Undertaking required D&D to: 
 
ensure that the approved purchaser would have all the necessary assets 
and rights to compete effectively for information search and broking 
services, PMS and manual settlement services in Australia 
 
maintain the economic viability, marketability, competitiveness and 
goodwill of the business to be divested prior to divestiture, including by 


 
Page 10 of 10 
appointing and maintaining an ACCC approved independent manager to 
oversee the divestiture interest until it was sold to an approved purchaser 
 
hold its interest in the business to be divested separate from its other 
assets and businesses (including the interest D&D will acquire in PEXA) 
and ensure it was operated separately from those assets and business 
pending divestiture, and 
 
provide for the effective oversight of D&D’s compliance with the 
Undertaking. 
Assessment of the Undertaking  
48. The ACCC considered that the Undertaking would have addressed its 
competition concerns as identified in the SOI. Divesting D&D’s existing 
Australian businesses would remove the vertical alignment between D&D and 
PEXA. 
49. In reaching this view, the ACCC assessed the risks associated with accepting 
the Undertaking, which included consulting a range of market participants in 
relation to the Undertaking.  
Withdrawal of the Undertaking  
50. On 23 September 2022, Link and D&D Limited announced that the proposed 
acquisition would not be proceeding. Following these announcements, D&D 
Limited and D&D Holdings sought the ACCC’s consent to withdraw the 
Undertaking and, pursuant to s 87B(2) of the Act and clause 4.1 of the 
Undertaking, the ACCC gave consent to the withdrawal of the Undertaking in its 
entirety on 20 October 2022.  
 
