Page 1 of 16 
 
Statement of Issues  
16 June 2022 
 Dye & Durham Corporation – proposed acquisition of Link 
Administration Holdings  
Purpose 
1. 
Dye & Durham Corporation (D&D) proposes to acquire Link Administration 
Holdings Limited (Link) (the Proposed Acquisition). Through the Proposed 
Acquisition D&D would acquire Link’s 42.77% shareholding in PEXA Group 
Limited (PEXA). 
2. 
This Statement of Issues: 
• 
gives the preliminary views of the Australian Competition and Consumer 
Commission (ACCC) on competition issues arising from the Proposed 
Acquisition  
• 
identifies areas of further inquiry 
• 
invites interested parties to submit comments and information to assist our 
assessment of the issues. 
3. 
Statements of Issues do not refer to confidential information provided by the 
parties or other market participants and therefore may not necessarily represent 
a full articulation of the ACCC’s preliminary position. 
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views 
4. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the Proposed Acquisition 
is set out in section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. In general 
terms, section 50 prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to 
have the effect, of substantially lessening competition in any market. 
5. 
The ACCC divides its preliminary views into three categories, 'issues of concern', 
'issues that may raise concerns' and ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’. In this 
Statement of Issues there is one issue of concern.  


Dye & Durham – proposed acquisition of Link Administration Holdings 
 
Page 2 of 16 
Issue of concern: foreclosure of competition in one or more markets in the 
conveyancing workflow 
6. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the Proposed Acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in one or more markets in the conveyancing 
workflow.  
7. 
Post-acquisition D&D and PEXA would have the ability and incentive to engage 
in mutual preferential dealing resulting in foreclosure of competitors in the 
conveyancing workflow. Foreclosure would lead to higher prices and/or lower 
quality in the supply of one or more services.   
Making a submission 
8. 
Interested parties should provide submissions by no later than 5pm on 
7 July 2022. Responses may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: 
Submission re: Dye & Durham proposed acquisition of Link Administration 
Holdings - attention Annabel Garrard/Nicholas Wellfare. If you would like to 
discuss the matter with ACCC officers over the telephone or in person, or have 
any questions about this Statement of Issues, please contact Annabel Garrard 
on (02) 9102 4028 or Nicholas Wellfare on (02) 9230 3813.  
9. 
The ACCC anticipates making a final decision on 8 September 2022, however, 
this timeline can change. To keep abreast of possible changes in relation to 
timing and to find relevant documents, interested parties should visit the Mergers 
Register on the ACCC's website at www.accc.gov.au/publicregisters/mergers-
registers/public-informal-merger-reviews. 
Confidentiality of submissions 
10. 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the Proposed Acquisition. We 
will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) 
unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation 
or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition 
and Consumer Act 2010.  Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where possible so that you may 
have an opportunity to be heard.  Therefore, if the information provided to the 
ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’ 
11. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
Proposed Acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well 
as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
12. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 


Dye & Durham – proposed acquisition of Link Administration Holdings 
 
Page 3 of 16 
Glossary of terms 
ARNECC 
Australian Registrars’ National Electronic Conveyancing Council 
API 
Application Programming Interface 
ATI 
Australian Technology Innovators Pty Limited 
ELN 
Electronic Lodgment Network 
ELNO 
Electronic Lodgment Network Operator 
D&D 
Dye & Durham Corporation  
PMS 
Practice Management Software 
VoI 
Verification of Identity  
The parties 
D&D 
13. 
D&D is an international provider of cloud-based software and technology 
solutions to legal and business professionals, including lawyers and 
conveyancers. D&D acquired SAI Global’s Property Division in January 2021 
and GlobalX in July 2021. D&D’s core products and services relevant to the 
Proposed Acquisition include: 
• 
Information search and broking services: including property, commercial 
and personal information. 
• 
Practice Management Software (including conveyancing and legal practice 
management software): including Matter Centre, Conveyancing Manager, 
Conveyancing Directory, Open Practice, SettsPlus and Atom as well as 
ancillary solutions that support conveyancing transactions such as 
verification of identity (VoI) and digital signing software solutions. 
• 
Manual property settlement services: services including physical property 
settlement attendance, stamp duty calculations and manual stamping, 
lodgment and registration. 
Link 
14. 
Link is a technology-enabled provider of outsourced administration services for 
superannuation fund administration and corporate markets, as well as related 
services including data management, analytics, digital communication and 
stakeholder education and advice. 
15. 
Link also holds a ~42.77% shareholding in PEXA, which D&D would acquire 
through the Proposed Acquisition. 
PEXA 
16. 
PEXA principally operates as an Electronic Lodgment Network Operator (ELNO), 
through its Electronic Lodgment Network (ELN) product, PEXA Exchange. An 
ELN enables users (also known as subscribers) to complete property lodgments 
and settlements electronically through a digital process known as e-
conveyancing. The PEXA Exchange is integrated with six land titles offices and 


Dye & Durham – proposed acquisition of Link Administration Holdings 
 
Page 4 of 16 
five state revenue offices for the lodgment of documents, as well as the Reserve 
Bank of Australia, the Australian Taxation Office and major financial institutions 
to facilitate financial settlement.  
17. 
The PEXA Exchange was born out of a 2010 Council of Australian Governments 
initiative to transition property lodgment away from paper-based to more efficient 
digital processes. PEXA was listed on the Australian Securities Exchange in 
2021 and its largest shareholders are Link Property Group Pty Ltd (42.77%) and 
Commonwealth Bank of Australia (23.9%). No other shareholder has a 
shareholding greater than 10%. 
18. 
In addition to PEXA Exchange, PEXA also offers a range of complementary tools 
separate from its ELN service to assist its subscribers with the conveyancing 
process. Some of these products and services include: 
• 
PEXA Plus: through which PEXA operates as a reseller of information 
searches provided by third party brokers. 
• 
PEXA Projects: which supports members in completing conveyancing 
matters in the role of Proprietor on Title or Mortgagee on Title. It provides a 
range of features that seek to streamline the processes involved with 
coordinating and executing property settlements.  
• 
PEXA Insights: which provides insights into the Australian property market, 
using information from the PEXA exchange coupled with complementary 
datasets. 
• 
PEXA Ventures: which offers a range of funding, bespoke services and 
programs to businesses in the property services sector. 
Other industry participants 
Practice management software (including conveyancing and legal practice 
management software) 
19. 
In addition to D&D, other suppliers of PMS include Australian Technology 
Innovators (ATI), LexisNexis, Thomson Reuters, Aderant, ActionStep, CATS, 
CaseFlow and LawMaster. 
20. 
ATI is the largest supplier of conveyancing and legal practice management 
software (PMS) in Australia. Its associated software products include LEAP 
Legal Software, PracticeEvolve and TriConvey.  
Information search and broking services 
21. 
In addition to D&D’s GlobalX Search Platform, other “full service” suppliers of 
information broking services include InfoTrack, Equifax, CITEC and Ilion. 
Suppliers with narrower offerings include DirectInfo, PsiGlobal and Hazlett.  
22. 
Lawyers and conveyancers also obtain information search results directly from 
regulatory authorities (e.g. state/territory land titles offices) and authorised 
resellers of information broking services (e.g. Landchecker and PEXA Plus).  


Dye & Durham – proposed acquisition of Link Administration Holdings 
 
Page 5 of 16 
ELN services 
23. 
In addition to PEXA, Sympli Australia Pty Limited (Sympli) is approved to operate 
as an ELNO in multiple jurisdictions in Australia and is in the process of 
developing its systems and expanding its customer base. ATI, which has 
interests in InfoTrack, LEAP and other relevant entities, holds a 50% stake in 
Sympli.  
24. 
A potential third ELNO, LEXTECH, owned by Purcell Partners obtained stage 
one (of two) approvals from the Australian Registrars’ National Electronic 
Conveyancing Council (ARNECC) to provide ELN services in May 2018. It is 
unclear whether LEXTECH will be approved to operate as an ELNO in the near 
future.  
Industry background 
The conveyancing workflow  
25. 
While the specifics of the conveyancing process differ based on the type of 
transaction, as well as relevant state or territory laws, the ACCC understands 
that some of the key steps in a typical process include: 
• 
Verification of Identity: the identity of the seller and buyer as the relevant 
transaction parties is confirmed. VoI software and an information search 
service may be used in the verification process. These tools may also 
integrate with the PMS of the lawyer or conveyancer engaged by the buyer 
and seller.  
• 
Contract: a contract for sale is prepared. PMS may be used to generate a 
contract from a template library. This contract may also be automatically 
populated with integrated information search results (titles, plans, planning 
certificates etc). 
• 
Listing: property is listed for sale. 
• 
Due Diligence: buyer’s lawyer/conveyancer undertakes further searches 
using information search services. 
• 
Exchange: contracts are signed and exchanged between the buyer and 
seller. Electronic signature software may be used to sign the contracts, 
which may be integrated with the PMS of the lawyer/conveyancer.  
• 
Deposit: buyer pays the deposit. 
• 
Pre-settlement: buyer and financier undertake final due diligence/checks. 
An information search service may be used. 
• 
Settlement: buyer (or financier) transfers funds to seller and seller transfers 
title to buyer. This may occur electronically via an ELNO, or the parties may 
meet to manually exchange contracts, titles and funds. If an ELNO is used, 
the vendor’s conveyancer/solicitor will create a digital workspace using the 
ELNO and invitations to join the workspace will be sent to the financial 
institutions and purchaser’s conveyancer/solicitor to complete the 
transaction electronically. The ELNO workspace may also be integrated 
with the parties’ PMS or information search software.  


Dye & Durham – proposed acquisition of Link Administration Holdings 
 
Page 6 of 16 
• 
Lodgment: relevant conveyancing documents are lodged with the relevant 
regulatory authorities (manually or via an ELNO). 
26. 
The steps in the conveyancing process are commonly referred to as “the 
conveyancing workflow”. Please refer to Figure 1 below for a diagrammatic 
representation.  
E-conveyancing and interoperability  
Advent of e-conveyancing  
27. 
The Council of Australian Governments committed to creating a single, national 
electronic system for the settling of real property transactions in all Australian 
States and Territories in 2008. Since 2013 there has been a shift from traditional 
manual settlement processes towards e-conveyancing. Technology and 
connections required for e-conveyancing have been rolled out progressively in 
various states and territories. E-conveyancing allows lawyers, conveyancers and 
financial institutions to transact property settlements and lodgments online 
through an ELN.  
28. 
To date, Victoria, Western Australia, New South Wales and South Australia have 
mandated e-conveyancing. Queensland and the Australian Capital Territory 
have enabled e-conveyancing, but have not mandated its use. The Northern 
Territory and Tasmania1 have not implemented e-conveyancing.  
29. 
In states where e-conveyancing has been mandated, PEXA completes almost all 
transactions. Although a second ELNO, Sympli has emerged, the lack of 
interoperability between ELNOs has limited its expansion.   
Interoperability  
30. 
Currently, all parties to an e-conveyancing transaction must use the same ELN. 
The existing infrastructure and regulatory regime do not enable parties on 
separate ELNs to exchange data to complete a transaction. This puts Sympli at 
a significant disadvantage and makes it difficult for it to attract subscribers. 
Absent interoperability between ELNOs, PEXA’s position as the near monopoly 
ELNO is unlikely to change.  
31. 
If implemented, interoperability should enable the exchange of settlement 
information between ELNs to allow participants to complete an electronic 
conveyancing transaction using different ELNOs. Interoperability should 
therefore allow subscribers to transact efficiently with all other parties to a 
settlement or conveyancing transaction, while subscribing only to the ELNO(s) 
they choose. 
32. 
On 12 May 2022, the Electronic Conveyancing (Adoption of National Law) 
Amendment Bill 2022 was passed by the NSW Parliament. This Bill amended 
the Electronic Conveyancing National Law to provide a framework for requiring 
ELNOs to ensure their ELNs are interoperable. As the Bill is part of a broader 
scheme, its reach will be national, therefore requiring interoperability to be 
 
 
1 Tasmania’s 2022-23 Budget includes funding related to the implementation of eConveyancing: 
https://www.premier.tas.gov.au/budget_2022/budget_releases/strengthening_the_future_of_tasmanias_p
arks 


Dye & Durham – proposed acquisition of Link Administration Holdings 
 
Page 7 of 16 
enlivened in each state and territory. A further series of amendments to the 
Model Operating Requirements in each state and territory will also be required to 
set out the steps to implementation and a timetable for the introduction of 
interoperability.  
33. 
The likely timeline for achieving interoperability is uncertain. The recently 
released Ministers Statement on National Electronic Conveyancing notes the 
timeline for the rollout has been extended and in the first instance, the reforms 
will be progressed in New South Wales and Queensland.2 The statement also 
notes an independent assessment of the current (mid-2023) target will likely be 
considered by the Minister in September 2022. Market participants have raised 
strong concerns about further likely delays to the implementation of complete 
interoperability. Market participants have also raised concerns regarding PEXA’s 
capacity to further frustrate certain aspects of the reform process.    
Digitisation and increased integration in the conveyancing workflow 
34. 
Concurrent with the digitisation of the settlement and lodgment process, the 
conveyancing workflow has also become increasingly digitised in recent years. 
Application Programming Interfaces (APIs) allow software providers to integrate 
with third-party software solutions to provide a more seamless transfer of 
information between the various steps in the conveyancing workflow.  
35. 
Market feedback indicated that conveyancing is an efficiency driven process. 
Integration of the various steps increases the value proposition of software 
providers as it minimises the need for duplicative manual processes. This allows 
lawyers and conveyancers to achieve efficiencies and a higher degree of rigour 
in managing high volume, low margin property transactions.  
36. 
D&D and ATI in particular have emerged as prominent vertically integrated 
suppliers of conveyancing workflow solutions. They offer integrations with their 
own product suite, as well as API integration with third parties. PMS, information 
search and broking, VoI and eSignature software are of most importance in the 
conveyancing workflow. Other software includes data analytics.  
37. 
The ACCC is considering whether this trend toward integration will continue. It 
appears likely to become increasingly important to the value proposition for 
software providers in the conveyancing workflow. 
 
 
2 
https://www.arnecc.gov.au/wp-content/uploads/2022/06/ARNECC-Paper_Ministerial-Forum-2-June-
2022_Ministers-Statement.pdf  


Page 8 of 16 
Figure 1: Steps in the conveyancing workflow*  
 
*ACCC analysis, market participant submissions 
 
 


Page 9 of 16 
The proposed transaction 
38. 
D&D, via Dye and Durham Link Holdings Ltd (a wholly owned Ontario 
incorporated subsidiary of D&D) proposes to acquire 100% of the issued share 
capital in Link by way of a scheme of arrangement for a total value of 
approximately A$3.7 bn. Through the transaction, D&D will also acquire Link’s 
42.77% stake in PEXA. 
Previous ACCC decisions 
39. 
On 17 June 2021, the ACCC announced it would not oppose D&D’s proposed 
acquisition of GlobalX after concluding that the acquisition would be unlikely to 
result in a substantial lessening of competition. The transaction combined 
GlobalX and SAI Global’s property division, which D&D had acquired early that 
same year.   
40. 
Although the ACCC did not consider it was necessary to reach a concluded view 
on the precise definition of the relevant markets, the ACCC considered the effect 
of the acquisition of GlobalX on the markets for information search and broking 
services, conveyancing and legal practice management software, and manual 
property settlements.   
Overlap and potential markets  
41. 
The ACCC has not formed a concluded view on market definition. However the 
ACCC’s preliminary view is that the relevant markets are: 
• 
the national supply of ELN services 
• 
the national supply of information search and broking services  
• 
the national supply of PMS. 
42. 
The ACCC is considering the extent of complementarities between these 
activities, including whether, over time, demand and supply side efficiencies may 
require providers to supply all of these services as a fully integrated end-to-end 
offering. 
ELN services 
43. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that there is a national market for the supply of 
ELN services. Although demand for ELN services may differ between states 
(including because of state-based land laws), on the supply side, PEXA and 
Sympli operate on a national basis.  
Information search and broking services  
44. 
There are a range of service models offered by information brokers. “Full 
service” brokers offer information search and broking services across property, 
corporate and/or credit, and with significant depth in each of those sectors. Other 
brokers may only offer property or credit information search and broking 
services. Different buyers of information search and broking services also 
require different service levels. For example, large law firms require the full suite 


Dye & Durham – proposed acquisition of Link Administration Holdings 
 
Page 10 of 16 
of search services, while conveyancing practitioners may only require property 
search services. 
45. 
In geographic terms, some information brokers only operate in particular states 
or territories, the land titles registries service individual states and territories and 
many lawyers and conveyancers likely purchase property searches only in 
individual states or territories. The ACCC is considering whether it is appropriate 
to consider state-based markets but does not believe this will be critical to its 
review of the Proposed Acquisition. 
PMS supplied to lawyers and conveyancers 
46. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that there is a national market for the supply of 
PMS to lawyers and conveyancers. This includes both conveyancing software 
and broader application legal practice management software.  
47. 
Conveyancing software is marketed to conveyancers and offers solutions 
tailored to conveyancers’ needs. Legal practice management software typically 
provides the same conveyancing functionality, with the addition of broader 
practice management solutions to support multi-disciplinary legal practice. 
48. 
Market participants describe the PMS industry as catering to three customer 
categories with respect to real property transactions: 
• 
Large: encompassing large law firms typically focussing on commercial real 
estate transactions, including settlements for new apartment towers 
(typically operating nationwide). 
• 
Medium: covering a range of law firms and conveyancers with some 
involvement in both commercial real estate and individual residential 
transactions (includes nationwide and state-based participants). 
• 
Small/micro: encompassing small conveyancing and legal practices 
focusing on individual residential transactions (typically state-based or even 
local areas).  
49. 
Although some PMS suppliers operate in certain states and not in others, the 
ACCC’s preliminary view is that there is a national market for the supply of PMS 
as the majority of providers operate in all Australian jurisdictions. However, the 
ACCC is considering the significance of local variations between states.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary views about 
the definition of the relevant market(s). In particular, market participants may wish to 
comment on: 
• 
Whether there is a separate market for the supply of conveyancing software that is 
distinct from the supply for general legal practice management software. 
• 
The extent and depth of integration between the various steps in the conveyancing 
workflow. 
• 
How important integration is between the various steps in the conveyancing 
workflow, including whether any integrations are (or are likely to become) “must 
have”.  


Dye & Durham – proposed acquisition of Link Administration Holdings 
 
Page 11 of 16 
• 
What factors lawyers and conveyancers consider when choosing PMS and how 
this can differ between practitioners and customer categories (i.e. between 
conveyancers and lawyers, and between large, medium and small/micro 
customers). 
• 
Whether there are specific state-based regulatory requirements that would 
preclude conveyancers, or real property lawyers from operating in some states, but 
not others.  
• 
The likelihood of new entry or expansion in each of the markets identified above. 
• 
The timing of interoperability, including how this may impact competition between 
ELNOs.  
Issue of concern: foreclosure of competition in one or 
more market(s) within the conveyancing workflow  
50. 
The Proposed Acquisition would result in significant vertical integration in the 
conveyancing workflow such that a near monopoly provider of ELN services 
(PEXA) will be aligned with a significant provider of upstream software services 
(D&D).  
51. 
The ACCC’s preliminary views are that:  
• 
PEXA has a near monopoly position in the supply of ELN services 
• 
D&D is a significant supplier of upstream software services (PMS and 
information search and broking) 
• 
the Proposed Acquisition aligns the near monopoly provider of ELN 
services with a significant competitor in upstream software markets  
• 
post-acquisition, D&D and PEXA would have the ability and incentive to 
engage in mutual preferential dealing resulting in the foreclosure of 
competitors in the conveyancing workflow  
• 
the effect of this conduct is likely to substantially lessen competition in one 
or more relevant markets in the conveyancing workflow 
• 
although the combined D&D-Link will have a minority 42.77% shareholding 
in PEXA, and ELNOs are subject to a regulatory framework, these factors 
are unlikely to constrain the risk of foreclosure conduct as outlined above.   
PEXA’s near monopoly position in ELN services  
52. 
PEXA’s near monopoly position in the supply of ELN services in Australia 
provides it with the ability to influence upstream competition. Absent the 
introduction of timely and effective interoperability, PEXA is very likely to remain 
a near monopoly provider of ELN services.  
53. 
PEXA is the only fully operational ELNO. Its competitors provide limited 
competitive constraint. Sympli has entered to a limited extent and poses a threat 
of expansion. LEXTECH has not entered and provides an uncertain threat of 
entry.  


Dye & Durham – proposed acquisition of Link Administration Holdings 
 
Page 12 of 16 
54. 
The supply of ELN services is characterised by strong network effects whereby 
the incumbent supplier is highly valuable to subscribers because it can execute 
multiparty transactions that involve other subscribers.  
55. 
As a consequence, PEXA has benefited from a significant first mover advantage 
and continuing network effects. Mandated e-conveyancing required all 
participants in the conveyancing workflow (e.g. lawyers, conveyancers, banks, 
land titles registries and state revenue offices) to adopt and align their practices 
with e-conveyancing at a time when PEXA was the only available ELNO. New 
entrant ELNOs are unlikely to benefit to this extent from any future mandates.  
56. 
Interoperability is likely to reduce barriers for competing ELNOs if implemented 
(as it allows subscribers of different ELNs to transact). While this is the case, 
PEXA is likely to retain a significant share of subscribers at the time of 
implementation (at least in the short to medium term), due to its significant first 
mover advantage and the transaction costs faced by upstream suppliers when 
integrating with additional ELNOs.  
D&D’s significant market position in the supply of upstream software services 
57. 
D&D is a significant supplier of certain upstream software services.  
58. 
While there are currently a number of different suppliers of PMS nationally, D&D 
has a particularly significant position in particular segments in the supply of PMS. 
For example, market feedback indicates that D&D’s PMS products have 
particularly high take up amongst conveyancers in Victoria and Western 
Australia.  
59. 
In the supply of information search and broking services, market feedback has 
indicated that InfoTrack and D&D are the largest national suppliers, in particular 
with respect to property title searches.  
60. 
For both PMS and information search and broking, barriers to entry appear to be 
at least moderate, due to likely significant economies of scale combined with the 
need to incur up-front fixed and sunk costs.  
Possible foreclosure conduct 
61. 
The Proposed Acquisition would create incentives for each of PEXA and D&D to 
engage in mutual preferential dealing that would result in foreclosure of 
competition in the conveyancing workflow.  
62. 
The Proposed Acquisition would facilitate D&D and PEXA creating a combined 
offering that is integrated across ELN, information broking and PMS services. 
There is a substantial risk that post-acquisition PEXA will favour D&D’s 
information broking and PMS services at the expense of third-party providers. 
This will strengthen the already significant market position of D&D in providing 
these services. In turn, and given its financial interest in PEXA, D&D would have 
strong incentives to integrate with PEXA’s ELN services while de-prioritising 
integration with emerging providers of these services. The effects are also likely 
to be self-reinforcing, raising barriers to entry at various levels of the 
conveyancing workflow.  
63. 
The risk of this occurring is significantly heightened by the emerging threat to 
PEXA’s near monopoly position in ELN services posed by interoperability. As 


Dye & Durham – proposed acquisition of Link Administration Holdings 
 
Page 13 of 16 
noted above, interoperability would undermine the network effects that underpin 
PEXA’s current position as the near monopoly supplier of ELN services. By 
‘locking’ a large proportion of law and conveyancing firms into an integrated 
package of PMS and ELN services prior to interoperability occurring, PEXA 
would be in a much stronger position to preserve its near monopoly position in 
ELN services into the future.  The ACCC might be less concerned by the 
Proposed Acquisition if complete interoperability of ELNs was imminent, but as 
noted above, the timeframe for achieving interoperability is uncertain.   
64. 
Market participants have raised strong concerns about various forms of conduct, 
which the ACCC considers may occur concurrently or sequentially. Examples of 
such conduct include: 
• 
PEXA could degrade or diminish the quality (or slow the pace) of 
integration with PEXA for D&D’s rival suppliers of upstream services  
• 
PEXA could offer discounts on its ELN services to D&D’s customers 
• 
D&D could refuse, degrade, or diminish integration of its upstream services 
with PEXA’s rival suppliers of ELN services 
• 
D&D could offer discounts on its upstream products on condition that its 
customers transact a minimum volume on PEXA’s ELN, and/or 
• 
PEXA and/or D&D could provide one another with preferential access to 
data. 
65. 
If the conduct above occurs, conveyancers and lawyers would have the option to 
input information directly into the PEXA platform. However, this is a less efficient 
process, particularly for firms conducting large volumes of conveyancing matters 
each day.  
Foreclosure is likely to create reciprocal benefits due to the interlinked nature of D&D 
and PEXA’s products 
66. 
As noted at paragraph 72 below, the combined D&D-Link would have 42.77% of 
shares in PEXA post-acquisition. The ACCC is taking this into account when 
assessing the parties’ incentives to engage in the conduct outlined above.  
67. 
Post-acquisition, D&D-Link’s shareholding in PEXA would ensure D&D receives 
financial benefit for conduct which promotes or protects PEXA’s profitability. 
Given PEXA’s scale, D&D’s 42.77% share in PEXA’s profits would likely provide 
it with an incentive to preference PEXA’s market position.  
68. 
As PEXA would have no ownership interest in D&D, it would not obtain a 
corresponding immediate financial benefit from the foreclosure of D&D’s 
upstream rivals in the supply of information broking and/or PMS.  
69. 
However, PEXA would be likely to have an incentive to engage in foreclosure of 
D&D’s upstream rivals. Doing so is likely to materially elevate D&D’s market 
position in the supply of upstream services. If and when interoperability is 
implemented, any preferencing conduct by D&D to PEXA’s ELN would increase 
the likelihood of foreclosure of PEXA’s rivals. Such conduct could include 
degrading the quality or slowing the pace of PEXA integration with third party 
suppliers of upstream services. This could reduce the scale and output of third 
party suppliers, forcing them to raise prices or exit. 


Dye & Durham – proposed acquisition of Link Administration Holdings 
 
Page 14 of 16 
Foreclosure conduct is likely to result in a substantial lessening of competition 
in one or more potential markets  
70. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that foreclosure resulting from the mutual 
preferential dealing described above is likely to result in a substantial lessening 
of competition in one or more relevant markets. The ACCC is particularly 
concerned of the risk that, over time foreclosure would: 
• 
force competing PMS and information search services suppliers to raise 
their prices or exit, allowing D&D to raise its own prices for these services  
• 
entrench PEXA’s market position in the supply of ELN services, and/or  
• 
materially raise rivals’ costs of entry and expansion within the conveyancing 
workflow such that in order to compete effectively, suppliers would be 
required to provide an end-to-end offering.  
71. 
The ACCC is continuing to consider the likely effect of foreclosure conduct.  
D&D-Link’s minority interest in PEXA is substantial  
72. 
Post-acquisition, D&D would control Link’s 42.77% shareholding in PEXA. The 
ACCC’s preliminary view is that while this is a minority shareholding, it is a 
substantial stake and the combined D&D-Link would have significant influence in 
respect of PEXA’s strategy and behaviour. This is for reasons including: 
• 
Link is the largest individual holder of shares and associated voting rights in 
PEXA, and is one of only two substantial shareholders (the other being 
CBA with 23.90%) with the remainder of shares widely dispersed3  
• 
of the eight directors currently on PEXA’s board, Link can nominate two 
directors (one of which is currently Link’s Managing Director and CEO) and 
be represented on the two board committees4  
• 
Link accounts for PEXA in its financial statements as an equity-accounted 
investee on the basis Link Group has significant influence over PEXA.5 
73. 
The ACCC is continuing to consider the degree of control or influence D&D 
would be likely to have over PEXA as a result of the Proposed Acquisition. 
74. 
In any case, the preliminary competition concerns outlined above are not reliant 
only on D&D-Link being able to control PEXA post-acquisition but are present in 
any event as the Proposed Acquisition creates alignment between D&D and 
PEXA. Should D&D-Link in fact achieve significant influence over PEXA’s 
strategy and behaviour, this would enhance the concerns outlined above.  
75. 
Other shareholders in PEXA would be unlikely to directly benefit from PEXA 
engaging in conduct which favours D&D unless such conduct ultimately benefits 
PEXA and indirectly them. All directors on PEXA’s board, including those 
nominated by D&D-Link in future, also have fiduciary obligations including duties 
to act in the best interests of PEXA. Nevertheless, the ACCC’s preliminary view 
 
 
3 PEXA Annual Report 2021, pg 121.  
4 Current board of directors, https://investors.pexa.com.au/investor-centre/?page=board-of-directors; see 
further PEXA’s Constitution, clause 4.2 and PEXA’s Replacement Prospectus, pg 234.  
5 Link Annual Report 2021, pg 134. 


Dye & Durham – proposed acquisition of Link Administration Holdings 
 
Page 15 of 16 
is that the conduct outlined above is likely to be in the interests of all PEXA 
shareholders.  
Likelihood that regulatory framework will prevent foreclosure conduct 
76. 
The likelihood that the existing and likely future regulatory framework governing 
the supply of ELN services could constrain PEXA and a combined D&D-Link’s 
ability to engage in foreclosure conduct is an important issue. The ACCC’s 
preliminary view is that there is considerable uncertainty on this.  
77. 
At a high level, ELNOs are required to comply with Model Operating 
Requirements which (amongst other things) require ELNOs to: 
• 
provide equivalent access to parties seeking to integrate with its ELN, 
subject only to differences attributable to the type, level or class of 
integration with the ELN 
• 
ensure that its ELN and any non-ELN businesses are structurally separated 
to limit the ELNO, and the related businesses, from obtaining an advantage 
over competitors as a result of the ELNO’s position 
• 
set its service fees according to a publicly available and equitable pricing 
policy.  
78. 
Market participants have raised strong concerns that this regulatory framework 
may be insufficient to prevent foreclosure conduct.  
79. 
Particular concerns have been raised that state and territory registrars and 
ARNECC (the body established to facilitate the implementation and ongoing 
management of the regulatory framework), currently lack some of the 
investigative and enforcement tools that would assist those bodies to effectively 
constrain PEXA’s conduct.  
80. 
The ACCC notes that ARNECC has released a position paper regarding 
changes to the available enforcement powers. It states that the Electronic 
Conveyancing National Law currently lacks the range of enforcement powers 
found in many other regulatory regimes, and that ARNECC has resolved to 
amend the law.6 The ACCC also notes the recent statements made by Ministers 
and ARNECC regarding further legislative amendments, but the timing and final 
form of any such amendments is currently uncertain.
7  
81. 
In the context of PEXA’s near monopoly position and the significant structural 
change in the market that may occur as a result of the Proposed Acquisition, the 
ACCC considers there is considerable uncertainty regarding the extent to which 
the existing and likely future regulatory framework can be relied upon to 
constrain PEXA and D&D’s conduct post-acquisition. The ACCC will continue to 
closely consider this issue.  
 
 
6  
https://www.arnecc.gov.au/wp-content/uploads/2021/08/changes-enforcement-powers-ecnl-
april-2021.pdf  
7 For example, see submissions to the NSW Parliamentary Committee Inquiry into the Electronic 
Conveyancing 
(Adoption 
of 
National 
Law) 
Amendment 
Bill 
2022: 
https://www.parliament.nsw.gov.au/committees/inquiries/Pages/inquiry-details.aspx?pk=2859 


Dye & Durham – proposed acquisition of Link Administration Holdings 
 
Page 16 of 16 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to the 
concerns identified above. In particular market participants may wish to comment on 
the following: 
• 
Whether the threat of interoperability is likely to materially lessen PEXA’s 
incentives to engage in foreclosure of upstream suppliers of information search 
and broking and/or PMS suppliers. 
• 
The current, and likely future, significance of integration between ELNs and PMS 
and/or information search and broking services. 
• 
How likely the existing regulatory framework is to limit a combined D&D-Link’s 
ability to engage in foreclosure conduct and any comments on the existing 
enforcement regime (including any proposed amendments) 
• 
How likely ELN subscribers are to switch to alternative ELNOs if interoperability is 
implemented (including any barriers to switching) and/or whether subscribers may 
subscribe to more than one ELNO (i.e. “multi-home”).  
• 
How easy or difficult it is for lawyers and conveyancers to switch PMS and/or 
information broking suppliers. 
• 
Whether D&D has market power in the supply of PMS or information search and 
broking services. 
ACCC's future steps 
82. 
As noted above, the ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on 
each of the issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue 
that may be relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. Submissions are 
to be received by the ACCC no later than 7 July 2022 and should be emailed to 
mergers@accc.gov.au. 
83. 
The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
84. 
The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 8 September 2022. 
However, the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose 
of explaining the ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's 
public announcement to explain its final view. 
