 
Turnitin/Ouriginal – Market inquiries email – 5 July 2021 
 
Dear interested party, 
As you may be aware, Turnitin proposes to acquire Ouriginal. We are writing to you to seek 
your views on this proposal because we understand that you have a commercial interest in 
markets that may be affected.  
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is an independent statutory 
authority responsible for investigating whether mergers are likely to substantially lessen 
competition. 
Turnitin and Ouriginal both supply (through subsidiaries) anti-plagiarism software and 
Turnitin also supplies other non-instructional educational software in Australia. Ouriginal was 
formed when Urkund (Prio Infocenter AB) acquired PlagScan GmbH in 2019. You can view 
the public register page for our review here. 
Below is a series of questions on which we would be grateful for your views. We would be 
happy to receive your response by email, or have a discussion with you over the phone or 
via Microsoft Teams. 
[Questions for customers] 
1. The ACCC is interested in the supply of anti-plagiarism software (APS) and how it 
interacts with related software such as learning management systems (LMS). Which 
non-instructional educational software products do you currently buy, and from 
whom? Please state the specific products you use, what you use them for, and their 
supplier, if possible. 
2. Who else could your organisation buy APS from? If you have previously used a 
different supplier of APS, or considered doing so, please comment on the differences 
from your current supplier and why you chose your current supplier. 
3. How easy or difficult do you think it would be for your organisation to switch to a 
different supplier of APS? 
4. What are the most important features of APS, from your organisation’s perspective? 
Which suppliers of APS are capable of providing those features? 
 
[Questions for competitors] 
5. The ACCC is interested in the supply of anti-plagiarism software (APS) and how it 
interacts with related software such as learning management systems (LMS). Please 
describe the non-instructional educational software products that your organisation 
supplies. Are there any of these products that you supply overseas but not in 
Australia? 
6. How many customers do you have in Australia, and what type of institutions are they 
(eg universities, TAFEs, high schools, other)? 
7. Who are your closest competitors in Australia and why? 
8. What are the main differences and similarities between your APS product(s) and 
those of Turnitin and Ouriginal?  
 
[Questions for all market participants] 
 
9. How closely do Turnitin and Ouriginal compete? (e.g. on price, quality, delivery time 
and range of products)? 


 
Turnitin/Ouriginal – Market inquiries email – 5 July 2021 
 
10. How easy or difficult is it for companies to begin supplying APS? What are the 
potential barriers to entry or expansion? 
11. If the acquisition goes ahead, what do you think would be the likely impact on prices, 
quality or service levels? If you think it will change, why?  
Please also provide a brief description of your business, and the reasons for your interest in 
the proposed merger, including any commercial relationship/s with either of Turnitin or 
Ouriginal. This will help us to better understand your views. 
This matter is public and you can forward this email to anybody who may be interested. 
If you would like to make a comment, please do so by 19 July by return email. Alternatively, 
email or call me on (02) 9102 4011, or call Steven Lee on (02) 6243 1347, if you prefer to set 
up a phone call to discuss. 
The ACCC will treat any comments confidentially, and will not publish submissions regarding 
the proposed transaction. We will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our 
advisors/consultants) unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information 
legislation or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition 
and Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, 
the ACCC will notify you in advance where possible so that you may have an opportunity to 
be heard. Therefore, if the information provided to the ACCC is of a confidential nature, 
please indicate as such. Our Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more 
information on confidentiality. 
If you have any questions, please let me know. 
Kind regards 
Sidd Sharma 
Analyst | Merger Investigations 
Australian Competition & Consumer Commission 
Level 20 | 175 Pitt Street, Sydney, NSW 2000 
T: +61 2 9102 4011  
www.accc.gov.au 
 
 
