Page 1 of 17 
 
Statement of Issues 
6 February 2014 
AGL Energy Limited – proposed acquisition of the 
business and assets of Macquarie Generation 
Introduction 
1. 
Outlined below is the Statement of Issues released by the Australian 
Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) on the proposed acquisition of 
the business and assets of Macquarie Generation by AGL Energy Limited (AGL) 
(proposed acquisition). 
2. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well 
as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
3. 
The ACCC’s review of the proposed acquisition is ongoing. The ACCC has not 
formed a final view on whether the proposed acquisition is likely to have the 
effect of substantially lessening competition in a market in contravention of 
section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the Act). 
4. 
In line with the ACCC’s Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines (at 
www.accc.gov.au/processguidelines) the ACCC has established a secondary 
timeline for further consideration of the issues. The ACCC anticipates completing 
further market inquiries by 17 February 2014 and anticipates making a final 
decision on 4 March 2014. However, the anticipated timeline can change in line 
with the Merger Review Process Guidelines. To keep abreast of possible 
changes in relation to timing and to find relevant documents, market participants 
should visit the Mergers Register on the ACCC's website at 
www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
5. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions. 


AGL Energy Limited - proposed acquisition of Macquarie Generation 
 
Page 2 of 17 
Background 
6. 
Macquarie Generation is being offered for sale as part of the broader 
privatisation of New South Wales (NSW) electricity generation assets being 
undertaken by the NSW Government.1 AGL has submitted an indicative bid for 
Macquarie Generation and has been invited by the NSW Government to submit 
a binding bid. 
The parties 
AGL Energy Limited 
7. 
AGL is an energy company listed on the Australian Securities Exchange. It has a 
range of retail and wholesale electricity interests in the National Electricity 
Market (NEM).2 AGL does not have any generation assets in NSW; however, it 
has significant generation assets in Victoria (Loy Yang A power station and 
several hydro-electric power stations) and South Australia (Torrens Island power 
station).  
8. 
AGL is also one of the three major energy retailers (together with Origin and 
EnergyAustralia), having a significant retail electricity customer base in each 
region of the NEM (except for Tasmania). AGL has approximately  16 per cent of 
retail electricity load  in NSW in total (including both small and large customers), 
and approximately 24 per cent of electricity retail customer load associated with 
residential and small business electricity (‘mass market’) customers in NSW.  
Macquarie Generation 
9. 
Macquarie Generation is a NSW state-owned corporation. The key assets of 
Macquarie Generation are the Bayswater and Liddell power stations together 
with the relevant associated wholesale risk management portfolio and major 
contracts (including a long term hedge arrangement with the Tomago aluminium 
smelter). 
10. 
Bayswater and Liddell are black coal generation plant with summer 2013-14 
registered capacities of 2,720MW and 2,020MW, respectively. Bayswater is the 
second largest power station and Liddell is the fourth largest power station in 
Australia. Macquarie Generation accounts for 27 per cent of NSW’s electricity 
generation capacity and is the largest generator in the NEM.  
Other market participants in NSW 
Origin Energy 
11. 
Origin Energy has a portfolio of generation assets which comprises 26 per cent 
of generation capacity in NSW, including the Eraring, Shoalhaven and 
Uranquinty power stations. Origin Energy has approximately 38 per cent of 
electricity retail customer load in NSW (both in total and for retail electricity load 
associated with mass market customers). 
                                                 
1  A further sale process for the assets of Delta Electricity (including the Vales Point and 
Colongra power plants) has recently commenced. 
2  The NEM is the wholesale spot market through which generators and retailers trade 
electricity. See the ‘Industry Dynamics’ section below for further information regarding the 
NEM. 
 


AGL Energy Limited - proposed acquisition of Macquarie Generation 
 
Page 3 of 17 
EnergyAustralia 
12. 
EnergyAustralia (formerly TRUenergy) has a portfolio of generation assets which 
comprise 17 per cent of generation capacity in NSW, including the Mount Piper, 
Wallerawang and Tallawarra power stations in NSW. EnergyAustralia has 
approximately 33 per cent of electricity retail customer load in NSW (both in total 
and for retail electricity load associated with mass market customers). 
‘Second tier’ retailers 
13. 
Other small (‘second tier’) electricity retailers in NSW hold small individual retail 
shares and collectively have a share of  approximately 15 per cent of electricity 
retail customer load in NSW (in total), but only 5 per cent of retail electricity load 
associated with mass market customers in NSW.  
14. 
The vast majority of second tier retailers are not vertically-integrated in NSW, 
although some of these retailers have generation assets in other regions of the 
NEM. For the remainder of this document, ‘independent retailers’ refers to 
second tier retailers that are not vertically-integrated in NSW. 
Other generators 
15. 
Snowy Hydro and Delta Electricity own and operate the remaining significant 
generation assets in NSW in competition with Origin Energy, EnergyAustralia 
and Macquarie Generation. Snowy Hydro and Delta Electricity have a 14 per 
cent and 11 per cent share of generation capacity in NSW respectively. 
Market inquiries 
16. 
On 2 December 2013 the ACCC commenced market inquiries regarding the 
proposed acquisition. A range of interested parties provided responses, including 
generators and retailers, energy users and other interested parties. 
17. 
The ACCC is also considering information available to the Australian Energy 
Regulator (AER) in its assessment of the proposed acquisition. 
Future with and without the acquisition 
18. 
Section 50 of the Act prohibits mergers or acquisitions that would have the effect 
or be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
In assessing a proposed acquisition pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC 
considers the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future competitive 
environment post-acquisition if the acquisition proceeds (the “with” position) to 
the likely future competitive environment if the acquisition does not proceed (the 
“without” position) to determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in any relevant market. 
19. 
The ACCC understands that there are multiple bidders seeking to acquire 
Macquarie Generation. There are therefore a number of possible future 
competitive environments in the absence of the proposed acquisition which the 
ACCC is exploring in relation to its assessment of the proposed acquisition. 
These include: 
• A rival bidder acquiring the assets of Macquarie Generation; 
• The status quo (where the assets of Macquarie Generation remain under 
NSW Government ownership as no bid is received above the reserve price).   


AGL Energy Limited - proposed acquisition of Macquarie Generation 
 
Page 4 of 17 
20. 
If AGL did not acquire Macquarie Generation, then it is likely to remain a stand-
alone generator or alternatively be owned by an operator with much less 
significant vertical integration. This is likely to have implications for competition in 
the relevant retail and wholesale markets. 
21. 
The ACCC recently reviewed ERM Power’s proposal to bid to acquire Macquarie 
Generation. On 30 January 2014, the ACCC announced its decision not to 
oppose ERM Power’s proposed acquisition. 
22. 
The ACCC is continuing to assess the information available to it regarding the 
likely future competitive environment without the proposed acquisition. 
Areas of overlap and market definition 
23. 
The ACCC considers that the key areas of overlap between AGL and Macquarie 
Generation are in the supply of wholesale electricity and financial (hedge) 
contracts. 
24. 
While Macquarie Generation does not overlap with AGL in electricity retailing, 
the ACCC considers that electricity retailing is relevant to the ACCC’s 
assessment of the competitive impact of the proposed acquisition in light of the 
vertical integration that would occur and the potential impact on competing 
retailers. 
Wholesale supply of electricity / supply of hedge contracts 
Product dimension 
25. 
Consistent with previous reviews, the ACCC considers that the wholesale supply 
of electricity and the supply of financial (hedge) contracts are appropriately 
defined as separate product markets. However, the ACCC recognises the close 
connection between hedge contracts and wholesale electricity markets, with 
hedge contracts being an essential input to sustainably participating in wholesale 
and retail electricity markets on a material scale. 
Geographic dimension (wholesale supply of electricity) 
26. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that either or both a NSW or a combined 
NSW/Victoria/South Australia market may be relevant for the purposes of 
defining the geographic dimension for the wholesale supply of electricity.  
27. 
There are constraints and degrees of substitution between jurisdictions of the 
NEM that arise from interconnectors between the regions. Electricity imports 
typically act as a very limited constraint at times of high demand (and hence high 
prices) when interconnectors between regions bind (preventing further imports 
into the adjoining region), but will provide a more effective constraint at other 
times of lower demand. This makes it relevant to consider both a narrow and a 
broader market. Regardless of the geographic dimension considered, the ACCC 
takes into account flows of electricity via regional interconnectors in its 
assessment. 
Geographic dimension (supply of hedge contracts) 
28. 
In relation to the supply of hedge contracts, the ACCC considers that the 
relevant geographic dimension to consider is the NSW region of the NEM, 
having regard to the fact that payments under hedge contracts are based on 
differences between the strike price and the regional reference price in a 
particular region of the NEM.  


AGL Energy Limited - proposed acquisition of Macquarie Generation 
 
Page 5 of 17 
29. 
The ACCC understands that a retailer seeking to manage price risk associated 
with its customer load in one region of the NEM will very rarely (if ever) enter into 
a hedge contract under which payments are calculated by reference to the spot 
price in a different region of the NEM, since this is not an effective way to 
manage the risk of price divergences between regions of the NEM. This primarily 
reflects the fact that at times of high demand in a NEM region (and hence a high 
regional reference price), there is often a significant divergence from the spot 
price in other NEM regions. Purchasing inter-regional settlement residues3 is not 
typically viewed as an effective tool to facilitate inter-regional hedging given flows 
on interconnectors can be limited (i.e. they do not facilitate entering into hedge 
contracts under which payments are calculated by reference to a spot price in a 
different region of the NEM). This is especially the view of market participants 
with operations on only one side of adjoining regions of the NEM. 
Retail supply of electricity 
Product dimension 
30. 
The retail supply of electricity can be broadly categorised by customer type as 
follows: 
• Residential and small business customers (mass market customers) who 
typically consume up to 160MWh of electricity per annum; and 
• Industrial and commercial customers (large business customers) who 
typically consumer in excess of 160MWh of electricity per annum. 
31. 
The ACCC understands that the requirements of these categories of customers 
differ significantly, in particular given the differing nature of the customer-retailer 
relationship and the types of risk management required by retailers to service 
each category of customer. Those differences mean that some retailers focus on 
only one customer type. 
Geographic dimension 
32. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the precise scope of the geographic 
dimension of the market for the retail supply of electricity is unlikely to be a 
determinative issue in assessing the proposed acquisition. Either or both a NSW 
market or a broader NEM-wide market may be relevant. 
33. 
The ACCC recognises that many electricity retailers operate across more than 
one NEM region. However, it is necessary for a retailer to secure a number of 
inputs specific to each region (e.g. a retail licence4 and hedge contracts 
referenced to the regional reference price in that region). Therefore, a retailer of 
electricity in one region cannot switch its operations quickly and without 
reasonably significant investment to another region. 
                                                 
3  Generators and retailers may participate in AEMO auctions for “inter-regional settlement 
residues” (IRSR). These residues arise because there is a surplus to AEMO when selling 
electricity across an interconnector and there is a difference between the regional reference 
prices on either side of the interconnector. Settlement Residue Auctions (SRAs) allow 
market participants to bid for entitlements to a proportion of the total IRSR, which to some 
extent can mitigate the effects of price divergences between the regions of the NEM. 
4  Although as more jurisdictions implement the National Energy Retail Law, there is a 
movement towards national licensing. 


AGL Energy Limited - proposed acquisition of Macquarie Generation 
 
Page 6 of 17 
Conclusion 
34. 
The ACCC considers that the relevant markets in which to assess the proposed 
acquisition are separate but related markets for: 
• the wholesale supply of electricity in NSW, taking into account 
interconnector flows and/or a broader geographic market taking into account 
AGL’s generation assets in Victoria and South Australia; 
• the supply of financial (hedge) contracts under which payment is based on 
the regional reference price in NSW; and 
• the retail supply of electricity in NSW (and/or a broader geographic market 
taking into account AGL’s retail presence across the NEM). 
35. 
The ACCC considers that the proposed acquisition also raises issues with 
respect to the wholesale supply of electricity more broadly in the NEM and 
therefore considers it is also relevant to consider the impact of the proposed 
acquisition on a NEM-wide basis. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its proposed definition of the 
relevant markets for assessing whether the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition.  
Industry Dynamics 
The wholesale electricity industry of eastern and southern Australia 
36. 
There are approximately 200 electricity generators (of significance) of varying 
sizes operating in the NEM (excluding smaller imbedded generation). 
Generators are commonly characterised in terms of their capacity (i.e. the 
maximum amount of electricity that may be produced at a given time, usually 
measured in megawatts (MW)). 
37. 
Electricity retailers do not physically supply electricity to consumers. Rather, they 
pay for electricity consumed by their customers, including the transmission and 
distribution costs, and then bill their customers and provide them with related 
services. 
38. 
The NEM is the wholesale spot market through which generators and retailers 
trade electricity and is operated by the Australian Energy Market Operator 
(AEMO). Retailers pay AEMO for electricity consumed by their customers and 
AEMO pays generators for electricity they supply. There are five regions of the 
NEM: Victoria, NSW, Queensland, South Australia, and Tasmania. These 
regions are physically linked by transmission lines (referred to as ‘regional 
interconnectors’). NSW is a net importer of electricity. NSW imports around 7% 
of its needs from Queensland and 5% from Victoria. 
Interconnectors and price separation between NEM regions 
39. 
A spot price in each region of the NEM (referred to as the ‘regional reference 
price’) is determined for each half-hour period and is calculated based on the bid 
of the most expensive generator required (‘dispatched’) to meet regional 
demand. The spot price may vary between regions as a result of constraints 
experienced on interconnectors and transmission loss factors.  
40. 
If the capacity of interconnectors is unconstrained, generators in each NEM 
region will compete with generators in other regions, and provide a competitive 
constraint on each other’s bidding behaviour. However, if the interconnectors are 


AGL Energy Limited - proposed acquisition of Macquarie Generation 
 
Page 7 of 17 
used at or near capacity, or the capacity of the interconnectors is reduced for 
technical reasons, supply between regions may be constrained and no additional 
electricity can be imported or exported into or out of a region. In this situation, 
prices will often diverge between regions, such that there is not a single NEM 
price and the extent to which conduct of market participants in one region 
provides a competitive constraint on the conduct of market participants in 
another region will be limited by the capacity of the relevant interconnector. 
Risk management in the NEM 
41. 
Wholesale spot prices are volatile, reflecting varying demand levels and the 
availability and costs of different types of generation. In each region of the NEM, 
pool prices for electricity in any half-hour period can range from a floor of -$1000 
per MWh to a cap of $13,100 per MWh.  
42. 
There is the potential for volatility in regions of the NEM to have a significant 
impact on the average wholesale price of electricity. If prices approach the 
market cap of $13,100 per MWh for just three hours in a year, the average 
annual wholesale spot prices may rise by almost 10 per cent. 
43. 
Retailers generally offer fixed electricity rates to their customers and are 
therefore exposed to the risk that the costs of purchasing wholesale electricity 
from the spot market will exceed the revenues they earn from their customers, 
described here as ‘price risk’. 
44. 
Generators also face a level of price risk, particularly since their financing and 
investment decisions may be based on projected spot prices which they 
anticipate will deliver an expected rate of return. 
45. 
Generators and retailers seek to manage risk associated with the wholesale 
electricity spot price volatility by entering into financial derivative contracts. 
These contracts are commonly known as ‘hedge contracts’. There are two main 
types of hedge contracts: 
• Over-the-counter hedge contracts (OTCs) where two parties (typically a 
generator and a retailer) enter into a bilateral contract (either directly 
between the counterparties or assisted by a broker). OTCs may be in 
standard form or tailored to the particular needs of the parties. 
 
• Exchange traded hedge contracts (ETCs), also known as electricity futures 
products, which are traded on the ASX. 
46. 
In its simplest form, a hedge contract specifies an agreed ‘strike price’ and the 
counterparties will pay one another according to the difference between the spot 
price (i.e. the spot price in one region of the NEM) and the strike price at the 
contract’s expiration date. The two most common types of hedge contracts are 
swaps and caps: 
• Swaps: a contract under which the generator must pay the retailer the 
difference between the spot price and the strike price during times that the 
spot price is higher than the strike price and the retailer will pay the 
difference to the generator for the reverse case. This means that a 
generator is effectively ‘committed’ to generate the contracted volume of 
electricity, unless it chooses to bear this spot price risk itself or enters into 
another swap to cover its liability. 
• Caps: a contract which – in relation to any electricity consumed by the 
retailers’ customers at a time when the actual spot price exceeds the strike 
price – the generator will pay the difference to the retailer. The retailer will 


AGL Energy Limited - proposed acquisition of Macquarie Generation 
 
Page 8 of 17 
pay a premium to reflect the fact that the generator would be foregoing 
revenue that it would otherwise receive when the spot price exceeds the 
strike price. 
47. 
As retailers generally have no choice as to the amount of electricity that they 
must purchase on the spot market on behalf of their customers, retailers are also 
exposed to the risk that their customers’ use may exceed the volumes covered 
by hedge contracts, described here as ‘volume risk’. 
48. 
Trading of wholesale electricity derivatives (hedge contracts) extends beyond 
firms which own retail and/or generation businesses, and include participants 
who trade on a speculative basis, without any underlying physical exposure to 
the NEM pool price (such as ANZ, CBA, Macquarie Bank and Westpac). 
Trend towards vertical integration 
49. 
There has been a trend towards vertical integration of generators and retailers to 
form ‘gentailer’ structures throughout the past decade. The Australian Energy 
Regulator (AER) has recently observed that this trend has accelerated over the 
last five years, and is common to government-owned and privately owned 
businesses. 
50. 
Vertical integration in recent years includes: 
• Origin and EnergyAustralia acquiring generation contracts and retail 
customers in NSW in 2010 and more recently the underlying generation 
assets in 2013 
• AGL acquiring South Australia’s largest generator (Torrens Island) in 2007 
and raising its equity stake in Victoria’s Loy Yang A power station from 32.5 
per cent to 100 per cent in 2012; 
• AGL and Origin acquiring retail customers in Queensland through 
privatisation in 2006-07; and 
• AGL, Origin and EnergyAustralia building new generators. 
51. 
As previously noted by the AER5, across the NEM, three private businesses – 
AGL, Origin and EnergyAustralia – have significant market share in both 
generation and retail markets. These three major vertically integrated retailers 
have a combined share of 36 per cent in electricity generation capacity across 
the NEM and jointly supplied 77 per cent of mass market customers in the NEM 
in 2013 (the percentage is higher if Tasmanian and regional customers supplied 
by Ergon in Queensland are excluded due to lack of contestability). In addition, 
these three major vertically integrated retailers control around 45 per cent of new 
generation capacity commissioned or committed in the NEM since 2009. 
Investment by entities that do not also retail energy has been negligible, except 
for the case of wind generation. 
52. 
Increasingly, generators and retailers are managing their price and volume risk 
by vertically integrating with the aim of balancing their generation capacity and 
retail customer demand. While vertical integration provides a means for 
“gentailers” to internally manage price volatility in the electricity spot market, it 
also results in a reduced requirement for vertically integrated gentailers to buy 
and sell hedge contracts to and from third parties. Vertical integration combines 
previously separated generators and retailers and results in these entities 
                                                 
5  AER, State of the Energy Market report 2013, section 5.2.1, p.123 


AGL Energy Limited - proposed acquisition of Macquarie Generation 
 
Page 9 of 17 
withdrawing their hedging volumes from the market in order to form a ‘natural 
hedge’.  
53. 
Market participants have submitted that if hedge trade volumes fall below a 
certain critical mass, which may happen with vertical integration, trades may 
decrease even further as financial intermediaries which engage in hedge 
contract trading (speculators) leave the market where the volume of trades does 
not exceed their minimum liquidity thresholds. Market participants have 
submitted that reduced participation by energy market participants in hedge 
contract trading may have a spiral effect on the level of liquidity, as the 
participation of speculators in the hedge contract markets is dependent on there 
being sufficient market depth. Withdrawal of hedge contract availability and 
reduced liquidity in hedge contract markets poses a potential barrier to entry and 
expansion for generators and retailers that are not vertically integrated. In such 
circumstances, generators and retailers that are not vertically integrated may not 
be able to access appropriate hedging instruments, or access them at a 
competitive price. This could represent a barrier to entry or expansion for 
independent retailers because the efficiency of risk management is a key area 
where energy market participants may obtain a competitive advantage and is 
crucial for a sustainable market position. 
Current supply and demand conditions in the NEM 
54. 
The NEM is currently in a situation of excess supply (generation capacity) 
relative to demand (electricity use). This can be attributed to a historic trend of 
increasing maximum and annual demand growth that resulted in generation 
investment to meet anticipated capacity requirements followed by an unexpected 
fall in electricity demand since around 2009 
55. 
Over the past five years, demand has declined by an annual average rate of 1.1 
per cent. AEMO has projected that demand will rise on average by 0.5 per cent 
across the NEM during 2013-2014. For NSW, AEMO has forecast demand to 
grow at an annual average rate of 0.4 per cent to 2018. 
56. 
The AER has recently stated that electricity demand has been declining as a 
result of factors including: 
• Commercial and residential customers responding to higher electricity costs 
by reducing energy use and adopting energy efficiencies such as solar 
water heating; 
 
• Subdued economic growth and weaker energy demand from the 
manufacturing sector; and 
 
• The continued rise in rooftop solar photovoltaic generation (which reduces 
demand for electricity supplied through the grid), which has been driven by 
small scale renewable energy certificates and lower cost systems. 
57. 
Maximum demand has generally flattened since 2008-2009, moving significantly 
below trend in the 24 months to 30 June 2013. However, the recent heatwave in 
January 2014 saw maximum demand in several jurisdictions of the NEM reach 
levels that were close to the recorded historical highs. These surpassed the 
levels reached in previous years and provide a new source of information with 
which to potentially reassess maximum demand estimates. 
58. 
The subdued electricity demand from recent years has contributed to surplus 
generation capacity in the NEM, causing around 2,300 MW of coal-fired plant to 


AGL Energy Limited - proposed acquisition of Macquarie Generation 
 
Page 10 of 17 
be shut down or periodically offline since 2012. Some plant is running only in 
summer (when demand is typically high), and other owners are rotating plant 
throughout the year. 
59. 
Meanwhile, climate change policies, including the Federal Government’s 
Renewable Energy Target scheme (RET) has resulted in the entry of substantial 
new generation (12,000GWh up to the end of 2012) in the NEM. The majority of 
this new generation capacity has been in the form of wind generators. 
Statement of issues 
60. 
For the purposes of this Statement of Issues, the issues in this matter are 
divided into two categories, 'issues of concern' and 'issues that may raise 
concerns‘. 
Issues of concern 
Increased barriers to entry and expansion in the retail supply of electricity in 
NSW 
61. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in the retail supply of electricity in NSW as a 
result of: 
• A significant reduction of liquidity in the supply of hedge contracts due to the 
reduced volume of hedge contract trading as AGL’s retail load will be 
supported with a natural hedge. This may potentially increase the risk of 
spot price exposure for independent retailers and, in turn, discourage 
participation in those markets and/or increase risk premiums in forward 
hedge contracts. 
• The increased ability and incentive of AGL to withhold competitively priced 
and customised hedge contracts to independent retailers. This would occur 
as a result of the changed incentives that AGL would have in the supply of 
hedge contracts backed by Macquarie Generation to independent retailers 
that compete with its retail arm. 
62. 
Following the proposed acquisition, the three major vertically-integrated retailers 
would have approximately 70 per cent of electricity generation capacity and 
approximately 80 per cent of electricity generation output in NSW as well as over 
85 per cent of the retail electricity load  in NSW (supplied to both mass market 
and large customers) in NSW. The ACCC is concerned that independent and 
new entrant retailers may find it difficult to gain the hedge contracts they need to 
compete aggressively in the retail supply of electricity in NSW.  
63. 
The generation capacity and output of each of the significant power stations in 
NSW is detailed in the table below. Interconnector flows are not included. 


AGL Energy Limited - proposed acquisition of Macquarie Generation 
 
Page 11 of 17 
Table 1 – NSW generation capacity and output shares 
Plant Operator
Generator
Type 
Registered 
Capacity 
(2013) 
(MW) 
Summer 
Rating6 
Capacity 
(MW) 
(2013-14)
Summer 
Rating 
Capacity 
Share 
(%) 
Output 
(GWh) 
(FY2013) 
 
Output 
Share 
(%) 
Macquarie 
Generation 
Bayswater 
Base 
2,640 
4,740 
29.2 
23,340 
35.7 
Liddell 
Base 
2,000 
Origin 
Eraring 
Base 
2,880 
3,760 
23.2 
12,106 
18.5 
Shoalhaven 
Hydro 
240 
Uranquinty 
Peak 
664 
EnergyAustralia 
Mt Piper 
Base 
1,400 
2,755 
17.0 
16,657 
25.5 
Wallerawang
Base 
1,000 
Tallawarra 
Intermediate
460 
Snowy Hydro 
Tumut, Upper 
Tumut, 
Guthega, 
Blowering 
Hydro 
2,256 
2,492 
15.4 
2,849 
4.4 
Delta Electricity 
Vales Point 
Base 
1,320 
2,044 
12.6 
7,545 
11.5 
Colongra 
Peak 
724 
Other 
 
 
434 
431 
2.7 
2,921 
4.5 
Source: AER 
64. 
Market participants have raised concerns that the proposed acquisition would be 
likely to result in a substantial reduction in the availability of competitively priced 
and customised hedge contracts to independent retailers in NSW. This, in turn, 
is likely to reduce the likelihood of entry and expansion, and hence the level of 
competition and price discounting in retail electricity markets to the benefit of 
consumers. In considering whether to enter a particular market, an electricity 
retailer considers a range of factors, including whether prices are regulated (and 
the level of those prices), the size of the market, the extent of competition and 
the ability to acquire hedge contracts to manage risk. An inability to obtain 
sufficient competitively priced and customised hedging contracts acts as a 
material deterrent for prospective new retail entrants.  
65. 
The ACCC has previously noted7 that second tier retailers are the primary 
drivers of pricing, discounting and innovation competition in retail energy markets 
and that a sufficient number of second tier retailers are required to constrain the 
pricing of the major retailers. In contrast to more established retail markets, such 
as in Victoria where several second tier retailers have been successful in gaining 
market share over several years, the development and expansion of 
independent retailers is nascent in NSW, with several independent retailers only 
recently commencing operations and which have not achieved any significant 
growth in retail share.  
66. 
The proposed acquisition would remove the largest source of independent (non-
vertically integrated) generation capacity in the NEM. In addition, the proposed 
                                                 
6  Summer rating capacity relates to the statistically predicted contribution of generation 
capacity under peak summer conditions. It is typically below registered capacity because 
relatively high temperatures cause small de-ratings of thermal generation capacity due to 
equipment cooling requirements. 
7  ACCC media release, AGL Energy Limited – proposed acquisition of Australian Power and 
Gas Company Limited (12 September 2013). 


AGL Energy Limited - proposed acquisition of Macquarie Generation 
 
Page 12 of 17 
acquisition would result in AGL’s retail and contract position in NSW moving from 
being ‘long’ in retail – i.e. having no generation capacity and being a buyer of 
hedge contracts – to being net ‘balanced to long’ in generation – i.e. having a 
limited volume of generation capacity in excess of its retail load requirements. 
The consequence of this change in AGL’s retail and contract position in NSW is 
that it would control a substantial volume of generation previously capable of 
supporting new retail entry and expansion and would have only limited excess 
generation available to supply hedge contracts to independent retailers. Market 
participants have submitted that the resulting decrease in volume of hedge 
contracts may reduce liquidity in trading markets to such an extent that they 
could cease to function as an effective source of hedge contract cover. 
67. 
Following an AGL acquisition of Macquarie Generation, a significant volume of 
its available generation will form a natural hedge with AGL’s retail load. Origin 
and EnergyAustralia are each ‘long’ in retail and may not represent a firm source 
of hedging for independent retailers in NSW. Further, approximately 70 per cent 
of generation capacity and approximately 80 per cent of generation output would 
be controlled by the three major vertically integrated retailers. 
68. 
The ACCC notes that Snowy Hydro and Delta Electricity will likely remain ‘long’ 
in generation in NSW (i.e. having more generation capacity available than 
required to support their retail load). However, the ACCC understands that: 
• Snowy Hydro as a hydro-electric plant has a much less significant share of 
output (GWh) relative to its capacity (MW) and is primarily a source of cap 
contracts for peak demand periods (such as for hedging against spot prices 
in excess of $300). The ACCC is considering the extent to which Snowy 
Hydro is likely to represent a firm source of hedging for the requirements of 
a new entrant or expanding retailer.  
• Delta Electricity comprises a base load plant (Vales Point, 1,320 MW) and a 
gas-fired peaking plant (Colongra, 724 MW). The ACCC is concerned that 
Vales Point, as a sole independent base load generator with a relatively 
small generation capacity (relative to Macquarie Generation, 4,740 MW) is 
unlikely to provide a sufficient level of liquidity for hedging contracts required 
to facilitate competitive entry conditions for new and expanding retailers in 
NSW. Similar to Snowy Hydro, Colongra is a source of hedging for peak 
demand periods only. The ACCC also understand that there may be 
limitations on the volume of hedge contracts that Delta Electricity can make 
available having regard to the reliability and costs of its generation, as well 
as the remaining economic life of the Vales Point power station.  
69. 
The ACCC recognises that in an oversupplied market, a vertically integrated 
generator with excess capacity may have an incentive to supply hedge contracts 
in order to obtain wholesale price certainty and capture any additional revenue 
derived from the premium earned on hedge contracts over expected spot price 
outcomes. However, market participants have raised concerns that as Origin 
Energy and EnergyAustralia are ‘long’ in retail and represent a large source of 
demand for hedge contracts in NSW, AGL may hedge any remaining long 
position in generation by supplying hedge contracts to these major retailers and 
withhold supply of competitively priced hedge contracts to independent  retailers, 
in order to maintain the current retail market structure and discourage the 
competitive threat of smaller players entering and expanding in that market. 
70. 
For the above reasons, the ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition will 
have a material deterrent effect on the prospect of substantial new entry and 
expansion in NSW, relative to the possible future competitive environments 


AGL Energy Limited - proposed acquisition of Macquarie Generation 
 
Page 13 of 17 
without the proposed acquisition. The proposed acquisition would remove a key 
opportunity for a large new entrant in generation or the significant expansion of a 
largely non-vertically integrated retailer (such as ERM Power). The ACCC 
considers that a new entrant is highly unlikely to build new generation of any 
capacity approaching the size of Macquarie Generation in the foreseeable future 
in light of the existing oversupply of generation in the NEM. Macquarie 
Generation (Bayswater and Liddell combined) is the largest generator in the 
NEM and the ACCC considers that the future ownership of Macquarie 
Generation is a critical determinant of the level of competition in NSW and the 
entire NEM. 
71. 
In any of the possible future competitive environments without the proposed 
acquisition, competition in electricity retailing appears likely to be substantially 
stronger and likely to facilitate new entry and expansion compared to the future 
competitive environment with the proposed acquisition. The supply of Macquarie 
Generation’s hedge contracts would either remain with an independent 
generator or with a significantly less vertically integrated energy retailer which 
has a strong focus on retailing to large business customers. In this scenario, 
Macquarie Generation would have significant excess generation capacity and 
would be owned by an entity which does not compete with mass market retailers 
and would therefore have no incentive to withhold competitively priced hedge 
contracts to independent retailers in NSW. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on: 
• 
Whether the proposed acquisition is likely to materially raise barriers to entry and 
expansion in the retail supply of electricity in NSW and /or the NEM more broadly.  
• 
The current availability of hedge contracts in NSW and in the NEM more broadly. 
• 
The impact of previous vertical integration on hedge contract liquidity and access 
to hedge contracts at competitive prices and breadth of contracting options in 
NSW, in other regions of the NEM, or across the NEM more broadly. 
• 
The extent to which generation output or capacity is an accurate measure of 
available generation for the supply of hedge contracts. 
• 
The extent to which Snowy Hydro and/or Delta Electricity are likely to provide a 
firm and competitive source of hedging for the requirements of independent 
retailers in NSW, in particular, independent retailers seeking to aggressively 
expand.  
• 
The extent to which Vales Point power station is likely to be a competitive source 
of sufficient hedge contracts for the foreseeable future.  
• 
The extent to which there is any significant difference between the current 
generators in NSW in the supply of hedge contracts. Which generators are 
currently competing strongly to make competitive offers to independent retailers? 
Which generators are currently not competing strongly to offer hedge contracts, 
and why? 
• 
Whether, and the extent to which, independent retailers require access to 
customised contractual hedging instruments which have been individually 
negotiated with a generator, as opposed to more standardised exchange-traded 
contracts. 
• 
Whether independent retailers require access to reallocation arrangements to 
minimise their prudential obligations and the available options for entering into 
hedge contracts combined with reallocation arrangements in NSW. 


AGL Energy Limited - proposed acquisition of Macquarie Generation 
 
Page 14 of 17 
• 
Whether financial intermediaries or exchange-traded contracts represent a firm 
and competitive source of hedging for the requirements of independent retailers in 
NSW. 
• 
The extent to which AGL would have an incentive to sell competitively priced 
hedge contracts to independent retailers in NSW despite the possible effect of this 
on its retail arm, in order to earn a premium over expected spot price outcomes on 
its generation output. 
• 
In the event that Macquarie Generation either remains an independent generator 
or is owned by a smaller retailer, to what extent would the supply of Macquarie 
Generation’s hedge contracts be more competitive (having regard to price and 
terms and conditions, such as customised contracts), and why?  
Issues that may raise concerns 
Market for the wholesale supply of electricity – horizontal aggregation 
72. 
AGL is currently the largest electricity generator in Victoria (with 29 per cent of 
capacity) and South Australia (with 38 per cent of capacity). Following an 
acquisition of Macquarie Generation, AGL would also become the largest 
electricity generator in NSW (with 28 per cent of capacity). 
73. 
The ACCC is concerned that the aggregation of Macquarie Generation’s 
capacity with AGL’s existing generation capacity in the NEM may have the effect 
of substantially lessening competition in one or more of the following markets: 
• the wholesale supply of electricity in NSW, taking into account 
interconnector flows; 
• the wholesale supply of electricity in a combined NSW/Victoria/South 
Australia market, taking into account interconnector flows; and/or 
• the wholesale supply of electricity in the NEM. 
74. 
An increase in the price of electricity in wholesale markets is ultimately likely to 
flow through to the price of electricity paid by retail end users, in regulated or 
deregulated retail markets. 
75. 
The main way that generators can increase spot prices is to economically 
withhold output. This is done by withdrawing some of their generating capacity 
from lower price bands and submitting it into higher price bands. An alternative 
to economic withholding is physical withholding, which can take a number of 
forms including mothballing units (or not repairing units), not running units for 
parts of the year, or retiring a plant altogether. 
76. 
A generator must have sufficient generation capacity available to engage in such 
a strategy. In particular, it will have a reduced incentive to engage in such a 
strategy to the extent that it needs to supply electricity to support its hedge 
contract or retail commitments. However, as noted above, firms are able to 
modify their hedge contract levels over time to increase their level of exposure to 
the spot market if they wish to take advantage of expected market 
circumstances. 
77. 
Market participants have raised concerns that because AGL has a large portfolio 
of generation assets across the NEM, including the largest share of generation in 
Victoria and South Australia, a withdrawal of electricity supply that causes an 
increase in wholesale spot prices may be a more profitable strategy for AGL 
compared to other potential acquirers of Macquarie Generation with less 


AGL Energy Limited - proposed acquisition of Macquarie Generation 
 
Page 15 of 17 
generation assets in the NEM. This is because the benefits of the higher prices 
caused by a withdrawal of supply would be spread across a larger generation 
portfolio.  
78. 
In addition, the ACCC is considering whether AGL would have an incentive 
(compared to a different purchaser or the status quo) to operate the Liddell 
power station less often, mothball generation units8, or otherwise prematurely 
retire the Liddell power station altogether in order to withhold supply. Such a 
strategy would reduce any excess generation capacity of AGL in NSW and may 
result in a tightening of the supply and demand balance in NSW with flow on 
impacts which benefit AGL’s positions in Victoria and South Australia. 
79. 
As AGL does not currently have generation capacity in NSW, the proposed 
acquisition could only result in a material increase in market power to the extent 
that a wholesale electricity price increase in one NEM region could cause a 
corresponding increase in another NEM region. If, for example, a wholesale 
price increase in NSW caused a corresponding increase in Victoria and/or South 
Australia. 
80. 
ACCC analysis of AEMO price sensitivity forecasts shows that for a significant 
number of trading intervals in 2011-2013, a large increase in demand (and price) 
in NSW would have resulted in a corresponding increase in price in Victoria. This 
demonstrates the ability of market conditions in one region of the NEM to 
influence the price in another region of the NEM. 
81. 
A generator will only be successful in profitably withholding supply if it is not 
subject to sufficient competitive pressure from other generators. If there is 
competitive pressure in the market, the generator faces the risk that the output it 
has withdrawn or bid at a high price will be replaced by the output of other 
generators without significantly increasing the price.   
82. 
AGL’s hedge position is relevant in considering its incentives to engage in such a 
strategy. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that while AGL’s retail and contract 
position may limit the benefits that it obtains from increased wholesale prices in 
the short term, given the likely ultimate flow-through of high wholesale prices to 
higher retail prices and the fact that contract positions can be changed, AGL may 
have the ability and incentive to engage in a withholding strategy over the 
medium to longer term. 
83. 
The ACCC is continuing to explore the likely price impacts of the merger having 
regards to price modelling and an analysis of underlying supply and demand 
conditions. 
Demand conditions in the NEM 
84. 
Demand for electricity has been declining across the NEM since approximately 
2009 (Figure 1). AEMO publishes three sets of forecasts of future demand – 
‘low’, ‘medium’ and ‘high’ scenarios. AEMO forecasts demand to grow at an 
annual average rate across the NEM of 0.8 per cent, 1.3 per cent and 1.6 per 
cent between 2013-14 and 2022-23 in the low, medium and high scenarios 
respectively. 
85. 
The ACCC notes that accurately forecasting electricity demand has proven 
difficult in recent years, reflecting the challenges associated with current climatic 
                                                 
8  By way of example, Energy Australia has announced that it will be retiring capacity at its 
recently acquired Wallerawang power station in NSW. The ACCC understands that 
EnergyAustralia will be removing Unit 7 and Unit 8 will shortly be placed on a three month 
recall should market conditions change. 


AGL Energy Limited - proposed acquisition of Macquarie Generation 
 
Page 16 of 17 
and economic circumstances, and given the numerous energy efficiency, 
renewable energy and carbon policies that have all reduced demand for 
electricity sourced from non-renewable (thermal) generation. However, as was 
noted earlier, in the week beginning 13 January 2014, Victoria and South 
Australia experienced very high temperatures and electricity demand levels that 
approached the forecast 10 per cent probability of exceedance maximum 
demand levels9 in AEMO’s 2013 NEFR report.  
Figure 1 – Annual energy forecasts for the NEM. Source: AEMO National Electricity 
Forecasting (NEFR) Report 2013 
 
86. 
The ACCC considers that if electricity demand in the NEM continues to decline 
or experiences very low rates of growth, it is less likely that the proposed 
acquisition would provide AGL with opportunities to engage in profitable 
withholding in the foreseeable future. Conversely, if demand increases at a 
greater rate there is an increased risk that market conditions would be 
favourable for withholding in the foreseeable future. 
Supply conditions in the NEM 
87. 
Future generation capacity in the NEM is also an important determinant of 
whether conditions are likely to be favourable for AGL to engage in withholding 
of supply following the proposed acquisition. The ACCC notes that due to the 
depressed demand conditions outlined above, there has been minimal recent 
investment in coal or gas generation capacity across the NEM.  
88. 
There has been significant recent investment in renewable generation capacity 
in the NEM, primarily in response to the Federal Government’s RET scheme 
which is designed to ensure that 20 per cent of Australia’s electricity comes from 
renewable sources by 2020. The ACCC considers that if the RET scheme is 
maintained at its current level, the increase in renewable generation capacity 
that would be required to meet the target could have a significant impact on the 
supply and demand balance.  
                                                 
9  The probability of exceedance maximum demand refers to the probability that a forecast 
electricity demand level will be exceeded. For example, a forecast 10 per cent probability of 
exceedance maximum demand level for a given season is expected to be met or exceeded, 
on average, only one year in every ten. 


AGL Energy Limited - proposed acquisition of Macquarie Generation 
 
Page 17 of 17 
89. 
The ACCC also notes that the combination of recent low electricity demand and 
increase in renewable generation capacity may put pressure on owners of non-
renewable generators to mothball or retire generation capacity.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on: 
• 
The likelihood and consequences of AGL withdrawing capacity to increase 
wholesale electricity prices in a number of NEM regions. 
• 
The extent to which any strategy of AGL to prematurely mothball or retire the 
Liddell power station is commercially realistic. 
• 
The sustainability of current supply and demand conditions and the potential for 
increases in mothballing or retirement of generation capacity. 
• 
The extent to which mothballed generation can readily recommence supply.  
• 
The impact of the RET on the level of generation capacity in the market and the 
overall supply and demand balance. 
• 
The likely future growth rate of demand for electricity in the NEM and which (if 
any) of AEMO’s low, medium or high forecast scenarios are likely to be accurate 
predictions of future demand. 
ACCC's future steps 
90. 
The ACCC has decided in the circumstances of this review to set a shorter than 
normal period for responses to this Statement of Issues. This reflects the 
extensive work done to date and the high level of cooperation received from AGL 
and other market participants. The ACCC is already in the process of engaging 
directly with AGL and market participants on the questions posed in this 
Statement of Issues. 
91. 
The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers market responses 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
92. 
The ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on each of the 
issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that may be 
relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. 
93. 
Submissions are to be received by the ACCC no later than 17 February 2014. 
The ACCC will consider the submissions received from the market and the 
merger parties in light of the issues identified above and will, in conjunction with 
information and submissions already provided by the parties, come to a final 
view in light of the issues raised above. 
94. 
The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 4 March 2014. However 
the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Merger Review Process 
Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose of explaining the 
ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's public announcement. 
 
