NON-CONFIDENTIAL PUBLIC VERSION 
 February 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Undertaking to the Australian 
Competition and Consumer 
Commission 
 
 
 
Given under section 87B of the Competition and 
Consumer Act 2010 (Cth) by AGL Energy 
Limited 
 
 


NON-CONFIDENTIAL PUBLIC VERSION 
 
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission under section 87B of 
the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth) by AGL Energy Limited 
1
 
1 
Person giving the Undertaking 
1.1. 
This Undertaking is given to the Australian Competition and Consumer 
Commission (ACCC) by AGL Energy Limited ACN 115 061 375 of level 22, 101 
Miller Street, North Sydney, NSW, 2016 for the purposes of section 87B of the 
Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth) (Act) on behalf of itself and its 
subsidiaries (together referred to as (AGL)). 
1.2. 
AGL is incorporated under the Corporations Act and registered in NSW. 
2 
Background 
Parties  
2.1. 
AGL is an energy company listed on the Australian Securities Exchange.  It has a 
range of retail and wholesale electricity interests in the NEM.  AGL does not have 
any generation assets that are scheduled generating units (as defined in the 
National Electricity Rules) in NSW; however, it has significant generation assets 
that are scheduled generating units in Victoria (Loy Yang A power station and 
several hydro-electric power stations) and South Australia (Torrens Island power 
station). 
2.2. 
AGL is also one of the three major energy retailers (together with Origin and 
EnergyAustralia), having a significant retail electricity customer base in each 
region of the NEM (except for Tasmania).  AGL has approximately 16% of retail 
electricity load in NSW in total (including both small and large customers), and 
approximately 24% of electricity retail customer load associated with residential 
and small business electricity (‘mass market’) customers in NSW. 
2.3. 
The Target Company is a NSW state-owned corporation. The key assets of the 
Target Company are the Bayswater and Liddell power stations (that are 
scheduled generating units) together with the relevant associated wholesale risk 
management portfolio and major contracts (including a long term hedge 
arrangement with the Tomago aluminium smelter). 
Proposed Acquisition 
2.4. 
The Target Company is being offered for sale as part of the broader privatisation 
of NSW electricity generation assets being undertaken by the NSW Government. 
AGL has submitted a bid to the NSW Government and entered into a binding sale 
agreement for the acquisition of the assets of the Target Company.  Completion 
of the Proposed Transaction is subject to the Proposed Acquisition receiving 
clearance from the ACCC. 
ACCC’s review 
2.5. 
On 2 December 2013 the ACCC commenced its public review of the Proposed 
Acquisition.  The ACCC undertook extensive market inquiries and considered 
information provided by the parties, industry participants and others.  The 
ACCC's  inquiries were aimed at assessing whether or not the Proposed 
Acquisition would have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a 
market in contravention of section 50 of the Act.  


NON-CONFIDENTIAL PUBLIC VERSION 
 
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission under section 87B of 
the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth) by AGL Energy Limited 
2
ACCC’s competition concerns 
2.6. 
On 6 February 2014, the ACCC released a Statement of Issues in relation to the 
Proposed Acquisition. 
2.7. 
The Statement of Issues identified that the ACCC's preliminary view was that the 
Proposed Acquisition raised significant competition issues in relation to the retail 
supply of electricity in NSW.  The ACCC noted that the Proposed Acquisition may 
result in: 
(a) A significant reduction of liquidity in the supply of hedge contracts due to the 
reduced volume of hedge contract trading as AGL’s retail load will be 
supported with a natural hedge. This may potentially increase the risk of 
spot price exposure for independent retailers and, in turn, discourage 
participation in those markets and/or increase risk premiums in forward 
hedge contracts. 
(b) The increased ability and incentive of AGL to withhold competitively priced 
and customised hedge contracts to independent retailers. This would occur 
as a result of the changed incentives that AGL would have in the supply of 
hedge contracts backed by Macquarie Generation to independent retailers 
that compete with its retail arm. 
Undertaking remedy 
2.8. 
AGL does not consider or accept that the Proposed Acquisition will, or is likely to, 
result in a substantial lessening of competition in any relevant market or 
otherwise give rise to competition concerns.  However, without admission, AGL 
offers this Undertaking to the ACCC pursuant to section 87B of the Act in order to 
avoid delay and address the ACCC's preliminary concerns as identified in the 
Statement of Issues. 
 
3 
Commencement of this Undertaking 
Commencement 
3.1. 
This Undertaking comes into effect when: 
(a) 
this Undertaking is executed by AGL; and 
(b) 
this Undertaking so executed is accepted by the ACCC, 
(Commencement Date). 
 
4 
Cessation of this Undertaking 
Withdrawal and termination 
4.1. 
Unless clause 4.2 applies, this Undertaking terminates on the earlier of the date: 
(a) which is five years and three months after the Completion Date; or 
(b) stipulated in the ACCC's written consent to the withdrawal of this 
Undertaking in accordance with section 87B of the Act. 


NON-CONFIDENTIAL PUBLIC VERSION 
 
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission under section 87B of 
the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth) by AGL Energy Limited 
3
Termination if parties will not complete 
4.2. 
This Undertaking will terminate if AGL has notified the ACCC in writing that the 
parties will not complete the Proposed Acquisition.  
Termination if AGL is no longer in control or no longer has ownership 
4.3. 
This Undertaking will terminate immediately if AGL ceases to be in Control, or the 
owner, of the Generation Assets. 
Revocation 
4.4. 
The ACCC may, at any time, revoke its acceptance of this Undertaking if the 
ACCC becomes aware that any information provided to it by AGL for the 
purposes of the ACCC undertaking its public review of the Proposed Acquisition 
or monitoring AGL's conduct under this Undertaking was incorrect, inaccurate or 
misleading.  
Waiver 
4.5. 
The ACCC may, at any time, expressly waive in writing any of the obligations 
contained in this Undertaking or amend the date by which any such obligation is 
to be satisfied. 
Survival 
4.6. 
Clauses 1, 4, 6.13, 6.14, 6.15, 6.16(d), 9, 11, 12, 13 and 14 survive the expiry of 
the Liquidity Obligation Term. 
 
5 
Undertaking to provide liquidity to the NSW contracts market 
Definitions 
5.1. 
The Obligation Quantity is, for each Trading Interval of the Liquidity Obligation 
Term:  
(a) 500MW of Products (being a notional quantity of 250MWh) for that Trading 
Interval, less the Target Company Adjustment less the notional quantity for 
all Products involving AGL which are entered into by the methods specified 
in clauses 5.5(a), 5.5(b) or 5.5(b) for that Trading Interval on or after the 
Completion Date; and 
(b) zero, if the amount calculated under clause 5.1(a) is less than zero, 
where the Target Company Adjustment is, for each Trading Interval of the 
Liquidity Obligation Term, the notional quantity for all Products involving the 
Target Company to a Retailer for that Trading Interval on or before the 
Completion Date.  


NON-CONFIDENTIAL PUBLIC VERSION 
 
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission under section 87B of 
the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth) by AGL Energy Limited 
4
5.2. 
The Price Obligation Quantity for each Trading Interval the subject of a request 
by a Retailer under clause 5.8 is the lesser of:  
(a) 50MW (being a notional quantity of 25MWh) less the notional quantity of 
any Products involving AGL and other Retailers for all Trading Intervals 
occurring on and from the start date and ending on the end date of the 
requested Product already entered into on the day of the request by that 
Retailer; and  
(b) the Obligation Quantity; and 
(c) 
zero, if the Obligation Quantity or the amount calculated under clause 5.2(a) 
is less than zero. 
5.3. 
For the purposes of calculating the notional quantity of a Product, where: 
(a)  the notional quantity for the Product is not constant, then the notional 
quantity will be the maximum notional quantity applicable to that Product 
during the calendar month in which the Trading Interval falls; and 
(b) the Product includes a call option, then the notional quantity will be the 
notional quantity that would have applied if the call option had been 
exercised by the counterparty to the transaction. 
5.4. 
The Availability Window is: 
(a) prior to the first anniversary of the Liquidity Obligation Term, the number of 
Trading Days calculated by multiplying 120 by the number of days that have 
elapsed from the Completion Date to the beginning of the Quarter in which 
the relevant Trading Interval falls and dividing by 365, during the time since 
the Completion Date; and 
(b) on and from the first anniversary of the commencement of the Liquidity 
Obligation Term, 120 Trading Days during the 12 months prior to the 
relevant Trading Interval. 
Undertaking to sell the Obligation Quantity 
5.5. 
Subject to clause 5.10, on and from the Completion Date, AGL will offer to enter 
into Products for each Trading Interval of the Liquidity Obligation Term until the 
Obligation Quantity for that Trading Interval is equal to zero by using one or more 
of the following methods: 
(a) entering into a Product with Retailers without using an Electricity Broking 
Service provided that the Retailer complies with clause 5.6;  
(b) placing one or more orders to an Electricity Broking Service that may be 
accepted by Eligible Participants provided that the Eligible Participant 
complies with clause 5.6; and  
(c) 
placing one or more price and quantity orders on an Electricity Futures 
Exchange. 


NON-CONFIDENTIAL PUBLIC VERSION 
 
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission under section 87B of 
the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth) by AGL Energy Limited 
5
Terms 
5.6. 
For any Product which AGL offers to enter into with an Eligible Participant: 
(a) if the Eligible Participant and AGL have entered into an ISDA Master 
Agreement that has not terminated or expired prior to the entry into of the 
Product, then the Product will be subject to the terms of that ISDA Master 
Agreement; 
(b) if clause 5.6(a) does not apply, then the Product will be subject to a 
condition that the Eligible Participant and AGL enter into an ISDA Master 
Agreement between the Eligible Participant, and that ISDA Master 
Agreement must be consistent with AGL's Counterparty Trading 
Arrangement; and 
(c) 
if it is an Exchange Product, then the Product will be executed in 
accordance with the rules of the relevant Electricity Futures Exchange, 
and the offer of that Product will be subject to the Eligible Participant complying 
with AGL's Counterparty Trading Requirements for that Product. 
Negotiation for the sale of Products to Retailers 
5.7. 
On and from the Completion Date on a Business Day, if a Retailer requests to 
enter into a Product with AGL during the Liquidity Obligation Term where the first 
Trading Interval the subject of the proposed Product at request commences no 
earlier than the first Trading Interval of the next Quarter, then AGL will negotiate 
the terms of that Product in good faith with that Retailer. 
5.8. 
On and from the Completion Date and subject to clause 5.9, if a Retailer requests 
AGL to enter into a Product: 
(a) where the first Trading Interval the subject of the proposed Product is no 
earlier than the first Trading Interval of the next Quarter; and 
(b) that is equivalent to an Exchange Product, 
then AGL will offer a notional quantity up to the Price Obligation Quantity for each 
relevant Trading Interval for which the Retailer has made a request at a price no 
greater than the higher of: 
(c) 
2% above the Trading Day's clearing price for the equivalent Exchange 
Product on the Electricity Futures Exchange on which the equivalent 
Exchange Product is traded on the Trading Day immediately before the day 
that the request was made by the Retailer; and 
(d) the price of the last trade for the equivalent Exchange Product on the 
Electricity Futures Exchange on which the equivalent Exchange Product is 
traded for which AGL was not a party on the day that the request was made 
by that Retailer. 
5.9. 
AGL will not be under any obligation to enter into one or more Products with a 
Retailer for a Trading Interval if the Obligation Quantity for that Trading Interval is 
equal to zero. 


NON-CONFIDENTIAL PUBLIC VERSION 
 
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission under section 87B of 
the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth) by AGL Energy Limited 
6
Obligation Quantity does not equal zero 
5.10. 
For any Trading Interval during the Liquidity Obligation Term in which the 
Obligation Quantity is not equal to zero, AGL must have, and must be able to 
demonstrate that it has, for a number of Trading Days which is not less than the 
Availability Window prior to the beginning of the Quarter within which that Trading 
Interval falls:  
(a) made one or more offers to enter into Products that satisfy clause 5.11 with 
one or more Retailers, which Products included that Trading Interval, 
without using an Electricity Broking Service, which remained open for 
acceptance for a minimum of one hour; or 
(b) placed one or more orders to sell Products to Eligible Participants that 
satisfy clause 5.11 with an Electricity Broking Service between 9am and 
5pm on any Business Day, which Products included that Trading Interval, 
which remained open for acceptance for a period not less than one hour; or 
(c) 
placed one or more orders to sell Products that satisfy clause 5.11 on an 
Electricity Futures Exchange, which Products included that Trading Interval, 
which remained open for acceptance for a period of not less than one hour,  
and that the Products offered to Retailers under clause 5.10(a), the orders to sell 
Products placed with an Electricity Broking Service under clause 5.10(b) and the 
orders to sell Products placed on an Electricity Futures Exchange under clause 
5.10(c) were not accepted or, if one or more offers or orders were accepted, were 
not accepted sufficiently so that the Obligation Quantity for that Trading Interval 
would equal zero (as calculated on the day of the relevant offer or order (as 
applicable)).  
5.11. 
An offer to enter into a Product or order to sell Products made by AGL under 
clause 5.10 must:   
(a) if the offer is made to one or more Retailers without using an Electricity 
Broking Service pursuant to clause 5.10(a), be:  
(i) 
in writing; and 
(ii) 
for capacity no less than 20MW (being a notional quantity of 
10MWh) for any Trading Interval;  
(b) if the offer is made under clause 5.10(a) or an order is placed under 5.10(b), 
be for a Product that is equivalent to an Exchange Product; 
(c) 
if the order is placed under clause 5.10(b) or 5.10(c) be placed on recorded 
lines of which AGL will keep a written record (with such record being 
auditable by reference to the tapes of the recorded lines); and 
(d) if the order is placed under clause 5.10(a), 5.10(b) or 5.10(c) have a price 
that is no greater than the higher of: 
(i) 
2% above the previous Trading Day's clearing price for the 
equivalent Exchange Product on the Electricity Futures Exchange on 
which the equivalent Exchange Product is traded on the Trading Day 
immediately before the day that the order was placed with the 
Electricity Broking Service or placed on an Electricity Futures 
Exchange; and 


NON-CONFIDENTIAL PUBLIC VERSION 
 
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission under section 87B of 
the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth) by AGL Energy Limited 
7
(ii) 
the price of the last trade for the equivalent Exchange Product on the 
Electricity Futures Exchange on which the equivalent Exchange 
Product is traded for which AGL was not a party on the day that the 
order was placed with the Electricity Broking Service or placed on an 
Electricity Futures Exchange; and 
(e) if the offer or order is made under clause 5.10(a) or 5.10(b), be in a form 
capable of acceptance by an Eligible Participant that satisfies clause 5.6; 
and 
(f) 
the price of the Product may be adjusted between that offered when: 
(i) 
the offer is made to one or more Retailers (in accordance with 
clause 5.10(a)); or  
(ii) 
when the order is placed with an Electricity Broking Service or with 
an Electricity Futures Exchange, 
to take account of any differences in costs (including taxes) that apply to 
that Product arising from any obligation, tax, charge or levy imposed on 
AGL as the owner of the Generation Assets for, or the transaction terms for 
the Product relating to, the management of greenhouse gas emissions or 
concentrations. 
6 
Independent audit 
Obligation to appoint an Approved Independent Auditor 
6.1. 
AGL must appoint and maintain an Approved Independent Auditor to audit and 
report on AGL’s compliance with this Undertaking. 
6.2. 
Without limiting its obligations in this Undertaking, AGL must: 
(a) comply with and enforce the Approved Terms of Appointment for the 
Approved Independent Auditor;  
(b) maintain and fund the Approved Independent Auditor to carry out his or her 
functions including:  
(i) 
indemnifying the Approved Independent Auditor for any expenses, 
loss, claim or damage arising directly or indirectly from the 
performance by the Approved Independent Auditor of his or her 
functions as the Approved Independent Auditor except where such 
expenses, loss, claim or damage arises out of the gross negligence, 
fraud, misconduct or breach of duty by the Approved Independent 
Auditor;  
(ii) 
providing and paying for any external expertise, assistance or advice 
required by the Approved Independent Auditor to perform his or her 
functions as the Approved Independent Auditor; and 
(c) 
not interfere with, or otherwise hinder, the Approved Independent Auditor’s 
ability to carry out his or her functions as the Approved Independent Auditor, 
including: 


NON-CONFIDENTIAL PUBLIC VERSION 
 
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission under section 87B of 
the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth) by AGL Energy Limited 
8
(i) 
directing AGL personnel, including directors, contractors, managers, 
officers, employees and agents, to act in accordance with this 
clause 6;  
(ii) 
providing access to the facilities, sites or operations of AGL as 
required by the Approved Independent Auditor; 
(iii) 
providing to the Approved Independent Auditor any information or 
documents requested by the Approved Independent Auditor that he 
or she considers necessary for carrying out his or her functions as 
the Approved Independent Auditor or for reporting to or otherwise 
advising the ACCC; 
(iv) 
not requesting any information relating to the compliance audit from 
the Approved Independent Auditor without such a request having 
been approved by the ACCC; and 
(v) 
not appointing the Approved Independent Auditor, or having any 
Agreements with the Approved Independent Auditor, to utilise the 
Approved Independent Auditor’s services for anything other than 
compliance with this Undertaking until at least 12 months after the 
Approved Independent Auditor ceases to act in the role of the 
Approved Independent Auditor. 
Approval of the Approved Independent Auditor 
6.3. 
At least 15 Business Days before the Completion Date, AGL must provide the 
ACCC with a notice for a Proposed Independent Auditor in the form prescribed in 
Schedule 2 to this Undertaking (Proposed Independent Auditor Notice).  
6.4. 
After receiving a notice for a Proposed Independent Auditor Notice, the ACCC 
must decide whether to:  
(a) approve the appointment of the person named in the Proposed Independent 
Auditor Notice as the Approved Independent Auditor which includes 
approving the: 
(i) 
terms of appointment attached to the Proposed Independent Auditor 
Notice; and 
(ii) 
draft audit plan attached to the Proposed Independent Auditor 
Notice; or   
(b) not approve the person named in the Proposed Independent Auditor Notice 
as the Proposed Independent Auditor, and  
(i) 
identify and approve a person as the Approved Independent Auditor; 
(ii) 
approve the terms of appointment;  
(iii) 
approve a draft audit plan; and 
(iv) 
direct the appointment of the Approved Independent Auditor on the 
approved terms of appointment.  


NON-CONFIDENTIAL PUBLIC VERSION 
 
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission under section 87B of 
the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth) by AGL Energy Limited 
9
6.5. 
Without limiting the ACCC’s discretion in making the decision described in 
clause 6.4, the factors to which the ACCC may have regard include whether the:  
(a) 
person named in the Proposed Independent Auditor Notice or identified 
by the ACCC has the qualifications and experience necessary to carry 
out the functions of the Approved Independent Auditor;  
(b) 
person named in the Proposed Independent Auditor Notice or identified 
by the ACCC is sufficiently independent of AGL;  
(c) 
terms of appointment and the draft audit plan are consistent with this 
Undertaking; and 
(d) 
terms of appointment and the draft audit plan are otherwise acceptable 
to the ACCC. 
6.6. 
Within 10 Business Days after receiving a Proposed Independent Auditor Notice, 
the ACCC must notify AGL in writing of its decisions and any direction made 
pursuant to clause 6.4. 
6.7. 
The ACCC may extend the period within which it will provide notice of the 
decision or direction (if applicable) described in clause 6.6 by notifying AGL in 
writing of the extension within 10 Business Days after receiving the Proposed 
Independent Auditor Notice. 
6.8. 
If: 
(a) an Approved Independent Auditor has not been appointed by the 
Completion Date; or 
(b) a new Approved Independent Auditor has not been appointed within 
17 Business Days after the Approved Independent Auditor resigns or 
otherwise ceases to act as the Approved Independent Manager pursuant to 
clause 6.19, 6.20 and 6.21, 
and the reason for an Approved Independent Auditor not being appointed is not 
the extension of time period specified in 6.6 by the ACCC under clause 6.7, then 
the provisions of clause 6.9 apply. 
6.9. 
If clause 6.8 applies, the ACCC at its absolute discretion may: 
(a) identify and approve a person as the Approved Independent Auditor;  
(b) prepare and approve the terms of appointment of the Approved Independent 
Auditor; and 
(c) 
prepare and approve an audit plan. 
6.10. 
Within 10 Business Days of the occurrence of the relevant event specified in 
clause 6.8, the ACCC must notify AGL in writing of its decision made pursuant to 
clause 6.9. 
6.11. 
The ACCC may extend the period within which it will provide notice of the 
decision described in clause 6.10 by notifying AGL in writing of the extension 
within 10 Business Days of the occurrence of the relevant event specified in 
clause 6.8. 


NON-CONFIDENTIAL PUBLIC VERSION 
 
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission under section 87B of 
the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth) by AGL Energy Limited 
10
Appointment of the Approved Independent Auditor 
6.12. 
After receiving notice from the ACCC of its decision pursuant to clause 6.4 or 6.9 
(as applicable), AGL must, within two Business Days: 
(a) appoint the person approved by the ACCC as the Approved Independent 
Auditor on the Approved Terms of Appointment; and 
(b) forward to the ACCC a copy of the executed Approved Terms of 
Appointment within one Business Day of execution. 
Obligations and powers of the Approved Independent Auditor 
6.13. 
AGL must procure that any proposed terms of appointment for the Approved 
Independent Auditor include obligations on the Approved Independent Auditor to:  
(a) maintain his or her independence from AGL, apart from appointment to the 
role of Approved Independent Auditor, including not form any relationship of 
the types described in paragraph 2(c) of Schedule 2 to this Undertaking with 
AGL for the period of his or her appointment;  
(b) conduct compliance auditing according to the Approved Audit Plan; 
(c) 
provide the following reports directly to the ACCC: 
(i) 
a scheduled written Audit Report as described in clause 6.15; and 
(ii) 
an immediate report of any issues that arise in respect of the 
performance of his or her functions as Approved Independent 
Auditor or in relation to compliance with this Undertaking by any 
person named in this Undertaking; and 
(d) acknowledge that it will require access to confidential information of AGL in 
performing his or her functions as Approved Independent Auditor; 
(e) execute and provide to AGL, prior to the performance of any services, a 
confidentiality deed poll, which will:  
(i) 
require the Approved Independent Auditor to keep any information 
received from AGL in the performance of its functions as Approved 
Independent Auditor confidential; 
(ii) 
require the Approved Independent Auditor to return any information 
received from AGL in the performance of its functions as Approved 
Independent Auditor at the end of his or her term as Approved 
Independent Auditor; 
(iii) 
prohibit the Approved Independent Auditor from using any 
information received from AGL in the performance of its functions as 
Approved Independent Auditor for any purpose other than the 
provision of an Audit Report; and 
(iv) 
prohibit the Approved Independent Auditor from disclosing any 
information received from AGL in the performance of its functions as 
Approved Independent Auditor; and 


NON-CONFIDENTIAL PUBLIC VERSION 
 
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission under section 87B of 
the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth) by AGL Energy Limited 
11
(f) 
follow any direction given to him or her by the ACCC in relation to the 
performance of his or her functions as Approved Independent Auditor under 
this Undertaking. 
6.14. 
AGL must procure that any proposed terms of appointment for the Approved 
Independent Auditor provide the Approved Independent Auditor with the authority 
to:  
(a) access the facilities, sites or operations of AGL as required by the Approved 
Independent Auditor;  
(b) access any information or documents that the Approved Independent 
Auditor considers necessary for carrying out his or her functions as the 
Approved Independent Auditor or for reporting to or otherwise advising the 
ACCC; and 
(c) 
engage any external expertise, assistance or advice required by the 
Approved Independent Auditor to perform his or her functions as the 
Approved Independent Auditor.  
Compliance audit  
6.15. 
The Approved Independent Auditor must conduct an audit and prepare a detailed 
report (Audit Report) that includes: 
(a) the Approved Independent Auditor’s procedures in conducting the audit, or 
any change to audit procedures since the previous Audit Report; 
(b) to the extent feasible, a thorough audit of AGL’s compliance with this 
Undertaking;  
(c) 
areas of uncertainty or ambiguity in the Approved Independent Auditor’s 
interpretation of any obligations contained in this Undertaking; 
(d) all of the reasons for the conclusions reached in the Audit Report; 
(e) any qualifications made by the Approved Independent Auditor in forming his 
or her views;  
(f) 
any recommendations by the Approved Independent Auditor to improve: 
(i) 
the Approved Audit Plan; 
(ii) 
the integrity of the auditing process;  
(iii) 
AGL’s processes or reporting systems in relation to compliance with 
this Undertaking; and 
(iv) 
AGL’s compliance with this Undertaking; and 
(g) the implementation and outcome of any prior recommendations by the 
Approved Independent Auditor. 


NON-CONFIDENTIAL PUBLIC VERSION 
 
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission under section 87B of 
the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth) by AGL Energy Limited 
12
The Approved Independent Auditor must ensure that the Audit Report does not 
include any information that identifies any Eligible Participant or Retailer with 
which AGL has entered into a Product other than as a member of a class of 
Eligible Participants or Retailers. 
6.16. 
The Approved Independent Auditor is to provide an Audit Report to the ACCC 
and AGL at the following times:  
(a) within 20 Business Days after the first anniversary of the Completion Date, 
at which time the Audit Report is to include the results of the initial audit and 
any recommended changes to the Approved Audit Plan, including the 
Approved Independent Auditor’s procedures in conducting the audit 
(Establishment Audit);  
(b) every 12 months after the date that the Audit Report for the Establishment 
Audit is provided during the Liquidity Obligation Term;  
(c) 
otherwise at the request of the ACCC until the final Audit Report has been 
provided and the ACCC notifies AGL in writing that the obligations with 
respect to the final Audit Report have been completed; and 
(d) a final report due three months after the expiry of the Liquidity Obligation 
Term. 
6.17. 
AGL must implement any recommendations of the Approved Independent Auditor 
made in the Audit Report, and notify the ACCC of the implementation of the 
recommendations, within 10 Business Days after receiving the Audit Report or 
such other period as agreed in writing with the ACCC.  
6.18. 
AGL must comply with any direction of the ACCC in relation to matters arising 
from the Audit Report within 10 Business Days after being so directed (or such 
other period as agreed in writing with the ACCC).  
Resignation, revocation or termination of the Approved Independent Auditor  
6.19. 
AGL must immediately notify the ACCC in the event that the Approved 
Independent Auditor resigns or otherwise stops acting as the Approved 
Independent Auditor prior to the ACCC terminating this Undertaking pursuant to 
clause 4.1, revoking this Undertaking pursuant to clause 4.4 or waiving the 
obligations under clause 6 pursuant to clause 4.5.  
6.20. 
The ACCC may revoke an Approved Independent Auditor’s status as the 
Approved Independent Auditor if the ACCC becomes aware that any information 
provided to it by the Approved Independent Auditor in carrying out its duties 
under this Undertaking and the Approved Terms of Appointment was incorrect, 
inaccurate or misleading.  
6.21. 
The ACCC may approve any proposal by, or alternatively may direct, AGL to 
terminate the appointment of the Approved Independent Auditor if in the ACCC's 
view the Approved Independent Auditor acts inconsistently with the provisions of 
this Undertaking or the Approved Terms of Appointment.  
6.22. 
If clause 6.17, 6.18 or 6.19 applies, AGL must provide the ACCC with a Proposed 
Independent Auditor Notice within five Business Days after the relevant event 
occurs and clauses 6.4 to 6.11 will apply to the appointment of a new Approved 
Independent Auditor. 
 


NON-CONFIDENTIAL PUBLIC VERSION 
 
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission under section 87B of 
the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth) by AGL Energy Limited 
13
7 
Information 
 
7.1. 
AGL must notify the ACCC and the Approved Independent Auditor (if appointed) 
in writing of the Completion Date at least two Business Days prior to the 
occurrence of the Completion Date.   
7.2. 
The ACCC may direct AGL in respect of its compliance with this Undertaking to, 
and AGL must: 
(a) furnish information to the ACCC in the time and in the form requested by the 
ACCC; 
(b) produce documents and materials to the ACCC within AGL's custody, power 
or control in the time and in the form requested by the ACCC; and/or 
(c) 
attend the ACCC at a time and place appointed by the ACCC to answer any 
questions the ACCC (its Commissioners, its staff or its agents) may have, 
provided that, and without limiting the powers of the ACCC under the Act, the 
ACCC will have no right to request under this Undertaking, and AGL no obligation 
to provide under this Undertaking, information held by AGL that is subject to a 
confidentiality obligation owed to a third party. 
7.3. 
Any direction made by the ACCC under clause 7.2 will be notified to AGL in 
accordance with clause 13. 
7.4. 
In respect of AGL's compliance with this Undertaking or an Approved 
Independent Auditor’s compliance with its terms of appointment, the ACCC may 
request the Approved Independent Auditor to: 
(a) furnish information to the ACCC in the time and in the form requested by the 
ACCC; 
(b) produce documents and materials to the ACCC within the Approved 
Independent Auditor's custody, power or control in the time and in the form 
requested by the ACCC; and/or  
(c) 
attend the ACCC at a time and place appointed by the ACCC to answer any 
questions the ACCC (its Commissioners, its staff or its agents) may have. 
7.5. 
AGL will use its best endeavours to ensure that the Approved Independent 
Auditor complies with any request from the ACCC in accordance with clause 7.4. 
7.6. 
The ACCC may, in its discretion to be exercised in good faith:  
(a) advise the Approved Independent Auditor of any request made by it under 
this clause 7; and/or 
(b) provide copies to any Approved Independent Auditor of any information 
furnished, documents and material produced or information given to it under 
this clause 7.  
7.7. 
Information furnished, documents and material produced or information given in 
response to any request or direction from the ACCC under this clause 7 may be 
used by the ACCC for any purpose consistent with the exercise of its statutory 
duties. 


NON-CONFIDENTIAL PUBLIC VERSION 
 
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission under section 87B of 
the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth) by AGL Energy Limited 
14
7.8. 
Nothing in this clause 7 requires the provision of information or documents in 
respect of which AGL has a claim of legal professional or other privilege. 
 
8 
Review 
Review Event 
8.1. 
Review Event means any of the following events: 
(a) an industrial dispute; 
(b) a declared or undeclared war or a revolution or any riot or civil commotion; 
(c) 
an act of God including, without limitation, fire, flood or other natural 
disaster; 
(d) an act of sabotage or vandalism; 
(e) a significant plant or equipment failure that is unusual in nature and could 
not have been reasonably expected but excluding any failure which is 
predictable in nature but uncertain in timing; 
(f) 
the withdrawal of all or part of one or more of the Generation Assets or the 
extra high voltage network transmission system used to transmit electricity 
in bulk to supply connection or network transmission services, as the case 
may be, necessary in order to: 
(i) 
comply with a lawful direction given in connection with an emergency 
which in any way endangers or threatens to endanger the safety or 
health of any person or which damages or destroys, or threatens to 
damage or destroy, any property or endangers, or threatens to 
endanger, the environment or an element of the environment; or 
(ii) 
avoid serious and immediate risks of a significant plant or equipment 
failure that is unusual in nature excluding any failure which is 
predictable in nature but uncertain in timing; or 
(g) a failure of the owner or controller of an extra high voltage network 
transmission system used to transmit electricity in bulk to supply connection 
or network transmission services, which alone, or which when taken 
together with any other such event or events, has the effect of: 
(i) 
reducing the electricity (expressed as a rate in MW) capable of being 
sent out by one or more of the Generation Assets by a proportion 
equal to or greater than 20% of AGL's normal generation capacity in 
NSW; or 
(ii) 
reducing the electricity (expressed as a rate in MW) supplied to the 
wholesale customers of AGL by a proportion equal to or greater than 
20% of AGL's normal generation capacity in NSW; or 
(h) change in the location of the NSW Regional Reference Node or a change in 
the boundaries or the number of regional reference nodes of the region (as 
defined in the National Electricity Rules) in which the NSW Regional 
Reference Node is located; 


NON-CONFIDENTIAL PUBLIC VERSION 
 
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission under section 87B of 
the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth) by AGL Energy Limited 
15
(i) 
the disappearance or permanent discontinuance or unavailability of the 
NSW Regional Reference Price; or 
(j) 
the material suspension of, or the material limitation imposed on, the trading 
of Products in Australia; or 
(k) 
action or inaction by any government authority including: 
(i) 
any Applicable Change; 
(ii) 
a failure by AEMO to announce or publish the NSW Regional 
Reference Price or the material suspension or permanent 
discontinuance or unavailability of AEMO, 
where the event or events or reduction could not reasonably have been avoided 
by the operator of the Generation Assets acting in accordance with such Good 
Electricity Industry Practice as existed immediately prior to the relevant event. 
Review Proposal 
8.2. 
If a Review Event occurs, AGL must submit a proposal (Review Proposal) to the 
ACCC that: 
(a) describes the Review Event leading to the Review Proposal and an 
explanation as to how it satisfies the criteria set out in clause 8.1; and 
(b) the response to the Review Event, which may include the variation or 
suspension of one or more obligations under this Undertaking, proposed by 
AGL. 
ACCC determination 
8.3. 
On receipt of a Review Proposal from AGL, the ACCC, acting reasonably, must:  
(a) determine whether a Review Event has occurred; and 
(b) determine the response to that Review Event, which may include the 
variation or suspension of one or more obligations under this Undertaking,  
and notify AGL in writing of that determination within twenty Business Days of 
receipt of the Review Proposal from AGL.  
Actions following a determination by the ACCC that a Review Event has occurred 
8.4. 
If the ACCC determines that a Review Event has occurred following a Review 
Proposal made in accordance with clause 8.2, then this Undertaking will be 
varied or suspended to reflect the response to the Review Event determined by 
the ACCC under clause 8.3 and, for the avoidance of doubt, the ACCC will be 
taken to have consented to any such variation or suspension. 
 
9 
Disclosure of this Undertaking 
9.1. 
AGL and the ACCC agree that Annexure 1 will remain confidential at all times. 


NON-CONFIDENTIAL PUBLIC VERSION 
 
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission under section 87B of 
the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth) by AGL Energy Limited 
16
9.2. 
AGL acknowledges that the ACCC may provide the Approved Independent 
Auditor with a copy of this Undertaking which includes unredacted versions of 
Annexure 1. 
9.3. 
AGL acknowledges that the ACCC may, subject to clause 9.1:  
(a) make this Undertaking publicly available; and 
(b) publish this Undertaking on its Public Section 87B Undertakings Register 
and Public Mergers Register; and 
(c) 
from time to time publicly refer to this Undertaking.  
9.4. 
Nothing in clause 9 or the confidential parts of this Undertaking referred to in 
clause 9.1 prevents the ACCC from disclosing such information as is: 
(a) required by law; 
(b) permitted by section 155AAA of the Act; 
(c) 
necessary for the purpose of enforcement action under section 87B of the 
Act; or 
(d) necessary for the purpose of making such market inquiries as the ACCC 
thinks fit to assess the impact on competition arising in connection with this 
Undertaking. 
9.5. 
Nothing in clause 9.1 or the confidential parts of this Undertaking referred to in 
clause 9.1 prevents the ACCC from using the information contained in this 
Undertaking for any purpose consistent with its statutory functions and powers. 
 
10 
Obligation to procure 
10.1. 
Where the performance of an obligation under this Undertaking requires a 
subsidiary of AGL to take or refrain from taking some action, AGL will procure 
that subsidiary to take or refrain from taking that action, as the case may be.   
 
11 
No derogation 
11.1. 
This Undertaking does not prevent the ACCC from taking enforcement action at 
any time whether during or after the period of this Undertaking in respect of any 
breach by AGL of any term of this Undertaking. 
11.2. 
Nothing in this Undertaking is intended to restrict the right of the ACCC to take 
action under the Act for penalties or other remedies in the event that AGL does 
not fully implement and/or perform its obligations under this Undertaking or in any 
other event where the ACCC decides to take action under the Act for penalties or 
other remedies. 
 
12 
Costs 
12.1. 
AGL must pay all of its own costs incurred in relation to this Undertaking. 
 


NON-CONFIDENTIAL PUBLIC VERSION 
 
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission under section 87B of 
the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth) by AGL Energy Limited 
17
13 
Notices 
Giving Notices 
13.1. 
Any notice or communication to the ACCC pursuant to this Undertaking must be 
sent to: 
Email address:  
mergers@accc.gov.au  
 
Attention: Executive General Manager 
 
 
 Mergers and Adjudication Group 
With a copy sent to: 
mergersucu@accc.gov.au 
 
Attention:  Director, Undertakings Compliance Unit 
 
 
 Coordination and Strategy Branch 
 
 
 Mergers and Adjudication Group 
13.2. 
Any notice or communication to AGL pursuant to this Undertaking must be sent 
to: 
Name:   
 
Company Secretary 
Address:  
 
Level 22, 101 Miller Street, North Sydney NSW 2060 
Email Address:  
pmcwilliams@agl.com.au 
Fax number:   
 
02 9921 2395 
Attention: 
 
Company Secretary 
With a copy sent to: 
Name:   
 
General Counsel 
Address:  
 
Level 22, 101 Miller Street, North Sydney NSW 2060 
Email Address:  
jfitzgerald@agl.com.au  
Fax number:   
 
02 9921 2395 
Attention: 
 
General Counsel 
13.3. 
If sent by post, notices are taken to be received three Business Days after 
posting (or seven Business Days after posting if sent to or from a place outside 
Australia). 
13.4. 
If sent by email, notices are taken to be received at the time shown in the email 
as the time the email was sent. 
Change of contact details 
13.5. 
AGL or the ACCC must notify the other party of a change to its contact details 
within three Business Days.   
13.6. 
Any notice or communication will be sent to the most recently advised contact 
details and subject to clause 13.3 and 13.4, will be taken to be received.  
 


NON-CONFIDENTIAL PUBLIC VERSION 
 
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission under section 87B of 
the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth) by AGL Energy Limited 
18
14 
Defined terms and interpretation  
Definitions in the Dictionary 
14.1. 
A term or expression starting with a capital letter: 
(a) which is defined in the Dictionary in Part 1 of Schedule 1 (Dictionary), has 
the meaning given to it in the Dictionary; or 
(b) which is defined in the Corporations Act, but is not defined in the Dictionary, 
has the meaning given to it in the Corporations Act. 
Interpretation 
14.2. 
Part 2 of Schedule 1 sets out rules of interpretation for this Undertaking. 


NON-CONFIDENTIAL PUBLIC VERSION 
 
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission under section 87B of 
the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth) by AGL Energy Limited 
19
 Executed as an Undertaking 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Executed by AGL Energy Limited ACN 115 061 375 pursuant to section 127(1) of the Corporations Act 2001 
(Cth) by: 
Signature of director 
Signature of a director/company secretary [please 
delete as applicable] 
Name of director (print) 
Name of director/company secretary (print)[please 
delete as applicable] 
Date 
Date 
Accepted by the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission  pursuant to section 87B of the 
Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth) on:  
Date 
And signed on behalf of the Commission:  
Chairman 
Date 
 
 
 
 


NON-CONFIDENTIAL PUBLIC VERSION 
 
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission under section 87B of 
the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth) by AGL Energy Limited 
 
1
Schedule 1 
1. 
Dictionary 
ACCC means the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission established under 
section 6A of the Act. 
Act means the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth). 
AEMO means Australian Energy Market Operator Limited ACN 072 010 327 or any other 
entity that operates the NEM. 
AGL means AGL Energy Limited ACN 115 061 375. 
AGL’s Counterparty Trading Arrangement means the requirements that a 
counterparty to a Financial Derivative Product sold by AGL must satisfy as set out in 
Annexure 1. 
Agreements means any contract, arrangement or understanding, including any contract, 
arrangement or understanding to renew, amend, vary or extend any contract, 
arrangement or understanding.  
Applicable Change means a Change in Law, Change in Subsidy, Change in Tax or 
Change in Fees. 
Approved Audit Plan means the plan approved by the ACCC in accordance with the 
terms of this Undertaking, as amended from time to time by an ACCC direction given 
under clause 6.13(d), by which the Approved Independent Auditor will audit and report 
upon compliance with this Undertaking. 
Approved Independent Auditor means the person appointed under clause 6.12 of this 
Undertaking. 
Approved Terms of Appointment means the terms of appointment for the Approved 
Independent Auditor, as approved by the ACCC in accordance with the terms of this 
Undertaking. 
Associated Entity has the meaning given by section 50AAA of the Corporations Act. 
ASX Futures Exchange means the market operated by ASX Energy Limited involving 
the trading of electricity futures and options. 
Audit Plan means the audit plan approved by the ACCC. 
Audit Report has the meaning given to that term in clause 6.15 of this Undertaking. 
Australian Financial Services Licence means an Australian financial services licence 
granted under Chapter 7, Part 6 of the Corporations Act. 
Availability Window has the meaning given to that term in clause 5.4 of this 
Undertaking. 
Business Day means a day other than a Saturday or Sunday on which banks are open 
for business generally in New South Wales.  


NON-CONFIDENTIAL PUBLIC VERSION 
 
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission under section 87B of 
the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth) by AGL Energy Limited 
 
2
Change in Fees means any change in the basis upon which any calculation relating to 
the determination of the liability of AGL to pay transmission fees or pool participation fees 
for one or more of the Generation Assets is made. 
Change in Law means, in respect of AGL, the imposition of, change in (or change in 
application or official interpretation of) or removal of a Law applicable in respect of 
operational activities and business and affairs as a generator and wholesale seller of 
electricity, including the environmental aspects of those operational activities. 
Change in Subsidy means, in respect of AGL, the provision of, change in or removal of 
a subsidy applicable in respect of operational activities and business and affairs as a 
generator and wholesale seller of electricity, including the environmental aspects of those 
operational activities. 
Change in Tax means, in respect of AGL, the imposition of, change in (or change in 
application or official interpretation of) or repeal of a tax applicable in respect of 
operational activities and business and affairs as a generator and wholesale seller of 
electricity, including the environmental aspects of those operational activities. 
Commencement Date means the date described in clause 3.1 of this Undertaking. 
Completion Date means the date on which the Proposed Acquisition is completed.  
Corporations Act means the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth). 
Electricity Broking Service means a firm or individual operating under an Australian 
Financial Services Licence that arranges transactions between a buyer and seller of 
electricity derivative contracts for an agreed commission upon successful deal execution. 
Electricity Futures Exchange means the ASX Futures Exchange and any other lawfully 
established market involving the trading of electricity futures and options. 
Eligible Participant means:  
(a) 
any Retailer; and 
(b) 
any person that holds an Australian Financial Services Licence other than AGL. 
EnergyAustralia means EnergyAustralia Pty Ltd ABN 99 086 014 968 and its 
subsidiaries. 
Entity Connected means such entities connected with a corporation as defined in 
section 64B of the Corporation Act.  
Establishment Audit has the meaning given to it in clause 6.16(a) of this Undertaking. 
Exchange Product means any Product listed on an Electricity Futures Exchange, and 
for the ASX Futures Exchange means those Products described in the "Contract 
Reference Guide" (or such other document setting out the types of Product available on 
the ASX Futures Exchange as published by the ASX Futures Exchange from time to 
time) as amended from time to time, which as at the date of this Undertaking are:  
(a) 
ASX Australian Electricity Base Futures (Base Load Month, Base Load Quarter 
and Base Load Calendar/Financial Year Strip); 


NON-CONFIDENTIAL PUBLIC VERSION 
 
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission under section 87B of 
the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth) by AGL Energy Limited 
 
3
(b) 
ASX Australian Electricity Peak Futures (Peak Load Quarter and Peak Load 
Calendar/Financial Year Strip); 
(c) 
ASX Australian Electricity $300 Cap Futures (Base Load $300 Caps and Base 
Load $300 Caps Calendar/Financial Year Strip); and 
(d) 
ASX Australian Electricity Options (Options over Base Load Calendar/Financial 
Year Strip and Average Rate Options over Base Load Calendar Quarter 
Futures). 
Expiry Date means the earlier of:  
(a) 
the date this Undertaking terminates under clause 4.1(a); 
(b) 
the date this Undertaking is withdrawn in accordance with section 87B of the Act 
under clause 4.1(b); and 
(c) 
the date the ACCC revokes its acceptance to this Undertaking in accordance 
with clause 4.2. 
Generation Assets means the generation assets owned by the Target Company on the 
day prior to the Completion Date. 
Good Electricity Industry Practice means the exercise of that degree of skill, diligence, 
providence and foresight that could reasonably be expected in relation to the operation of 
the Generation Assets, taking into account the size, duty, age, fuel type and 
technological status of the Generation Assets and any other relevant factor, from a 
significant proportion of operators of facilities located in Australia for the generation and 
supply of electricity. 
Government Authority means the crown, a minister, a government department, a 
corporation or authority constituted for a public purpose, a holder of an office for a public 
purpose, a local authority, a court, and any officer, employee or agent of any of the 
foregoing acting as such. 
ISDA Master Agreement means the 2002 ISDA Master Agreement published by the 
International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. or such other version published by 
the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc from time to time.   
Law includes any treaty, law, rule or regulation of any government revenue authority. 
Liquidity Obligation Term means the period commencing on the date that is six months 
after the Completion Date and ending on the fifth anniversary of the Completion Date. 
MW means megawatts of electricity. 
MWh means megawatt hours of electricity. 
National Electricity Law means the National Electricity (NSW) Law as defined in the 
National Electricity (New South Wales) Act 1997 (NSW). 
National Electricity Rules means the National Electricity Rules under the National 
Electricity Law. 


NON-CONFIDENTIAL PUBLIC VERSION 
 
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission under section 87B of 
the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth) by AGL Energy Limited 
 
4
NEM means: 
(a) 
the wholesale exchange operated and administered by the AEMO under the 
National Electricity Law and the National Electricity Rules; and 
(b)  
the national electricity system. 
NSW means New South Wales. 
NSW Regional Reference Node means the Sydney West 330kV node as determined 
under the National Electricity Rules. 
NSW Regional Reference Price means the Regional Reference Price at the NSW 
Regional Reference Node by AEMO. 
Obligation Quantity has the meaning given to that term in clause 5.1 of this 
Undertaking. 
Origin means Origin Energy Limited ABN 30 000 051 696 and its subsidiaries. 
Quarter means a calendar quarter ending on 30 June, 30 September, 31 December and 
31 March. 
Product means a transaction under which the amount of the consideration, or the value 
of the transaction, is ultimately determined, derived from or varies by reference to (wholly 
or in part) the value or amount of the NSW Regional Reference Price where:  
(a) 
if the transaction is an over the counter transaction, AGL (or the Target 
Company) is person who is to pay the floating price (regardless of whether the 
floating price is actually paid) (other than a transaction in the form of a put 
option); and  
(b) 
if the transaction involves an Exchange Product or a Product equivalent to an 
Exchange Product, AGL (or the Target Company) is the person who is to pay the 
cash settlement price. 
Proposed Acquisition is defined in clause 2.4 of this Undertaking. 
Proposed Independent Auditor means a person named in the Proposed Independent 
Auditor Notice. 
Proposed Independent Auditor Notice means a completed notice in the form of 
Schedule 2 to this Undertaking provided to the ACCC with all required attachments in 
relation to the Proposed Independent Auditor. 
Public Mergers Register means the ACCC’s public register of merger clearances. 
Public Section 87B Undertakings Register means the ACCC’s public register of 
section 87B undertakings, available at www.accc.gov.au.  
Regional Reference Node has the meaning given to that term in the National Electricity 
Rules. 
Regional Reference Price has the meaning given to that term in the National Electricity 
Rules. 


NON-CONFIDENTIAL PUBLIC VERSION 
 
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission under section 87B of 
the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth) by AGL Energy Limited 
 
5
Related Bodies Corporate has the meaning given to it by section 50 of the Corporations 
Act. 
Related Entities has the meaning given to it by section 9 of the Corporations Act. 
Related Parties has the meaning given to it by section 228 of the Corporations Act. 
Retailer means any person who holds a retail authorisation for NSW issued under Part 5 
of the National Energy Retail Law as applied in NSW by the National Energy Retail Law 
(Adoption) Act 2012 (NSW) and:  
(a) 
holds an Australian Financial Services Licence or is otherwise exempt from the 
requirement to hold an Australian Financial Services Licence; or 
(b) 
a related body corporate of the person described in paragraph (a) holds an 
Australian Financial Services Licence or is otherwise exempt from the 
requirement to hold an Australian Financial Services Licence, 
other than AGL, EnergyAustralia or Origin. 
Review Event has the meaning given to that term in clause 8.1. 
Review Proposal has the meaning given to that term in clause 8.2. 
Subsidiary has the meaning given by section 4A of the Act. 
Target Company means Macquarie Generation (registration number: U0921901) owned 
by the NSW State Government pursuant to the State Owned Corporations Act 1989 
(NSW) and the Energy Services Corporation Act 1995 (NSW). 
Target Company Adjustment has the meaning given to that term in clause 5.1 of this 
Undertaking. 
Term means the period commencing on the Commencement Date and expiring on the 
Expiry Date. 
Trading Day means a day that one or more Electricity Futures Markets is open for 
business.  
Trading Interval a trading interval as that term is defined in the National Electricity Rules 
in NSW. 
Undertaking is a reference to all provisions of this document, including its schedules and 
as varied from time to time under section 87B of the Act. 
 
2. 
Interpretation 
2.1 
In the interpretation of this Undertaking, the following provisions apply unless the 
context otherwise requires: 
(a) a reference to this Undertaking includes all of the provisions of this document 
including its schedules; 
(b) headings are inserted for convenience only and do not affect the 
interpretation of this Undertaking;  


NON-CONFIDENTIAL PUBLIC VERSION 
 
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission under section 87B of 
the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth) by AGL Energy Limited 
 
6
(c) if the day on which any act, matter or thing is to be done under this 
Undertaking is not a Business Day, the act, matter or thing must be done on 
the next Business Day;  
(d) a reference in this Undertaking to any law, legislation or legislative provision 
includes any statutory modification, amendment or re-enactment, and any 
subordinate legislation or regulations issued under that legislation or 
legislative provision;  
(e) a reference in this Undertaking to any company includes its Related Bodies 
Corporate; 
(f) a reference in this Undertaking to any agreement or document is to that 
agreement or document as amended, novated, supplemented or replaced; 
(g) a reference to a clause, part, schedule or attachment is a reference to a 
clause, part, schedule or attachment of or to this Undertaking; 
(h) an expression importing a natural person includes any company, trust, 
partnership, joint venture, association, body corporate or governmental 
agency; 
(i) where a word or phrase is given a defined meaning, another part of speech 
or other grammatical form in respect of that word or phrase has a 
corresponding meaning; 
(j) a word which denotes the singular also denotes the plural, a word which 
denotes the plural also denotes the singular, and a reference to any gender 
also denotes the other genders; 
(k) a reference to the words 'such as', 'including', 'particularly' and similar 
expressions is to be construed without limitation; 
(l) a construction that would promote the purpose - or object - underlying the 
Undertaking (whether expressly stated or not) will be preferred to a 
construction that would not promote that purpose or object; 
(m) material not forming part of this Undertaking may be considered to: 
(i) confirm the meaning of a clause is the ordinary meaning conveyed by 
the text of the clause, taking into account its context in the Undertaking 
and the competition concerns intended to be addressed by the 
Undertaking and the clause in question; or 
(ii) determine the meaning of the clause when the ordinary meaning 
conveyed by the text of the clause, taking into account its context in the 
Undertaking and the purpose or object underlying the Undertaking, leads 
to a result that does not promote the purpose or object underlying the 
Undertaking; 
(n) in determining whether consideration should be given to any material in 
accordance with paragraph (m), or in considering any weight to be given to 
any such material, regard must be had, in addition to any other relevant 
matters, to the: 
(i) effect that reliance on the ordinary meaning conveyed by the text of the 
clause would, have (taking into account its context in the Undertaking 


NON-CONFIDENTIAL PUBLIC VERSION 
 
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission under section 87B of 
the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth) by AGL Energy Limited 
 
7
and whether that meaning promotes the purpose or object of the 
Undertaking); and 
(ii) need to ensure that the result of the Undertaking is to completely 
address any ACCC competition concerns; 
(o) the ACCC may authorise the Mergers Review Committee, a member of the 
ACCC or a member of the ACCC staff, to exercise a decision making 
function under this Undertaking on its behalf and that authorisation may be 
subject to any conditions which the ACCC may impose; 
(p) in performing its obligations under this Undertaking, AGL will do everything 
reasonably within its power to ensure that its performance of those 
obligations is done in a manner which is consistent with promoting the 
purpose and object of this Undertaking; and 
(q) a reference to: 
(i) a thing (including, but not limited to, a chose in action or other right) 
includes a part of that thing; 
(ii) a party includes its successors and permitted assigns; and 
(iii) a monetary amount is in Australian dollars. 
  


NON-CONFIDENTIAL PUBLIC VERSION 
 
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission under section 87B of 
the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth) by AGL Energy Limited 
 
8
Schedule 2 –  Proposed Independent Auditor Notice  
 
PROPOSED INDEPENDENT AUDITOR NOTICE 
This form sets out the information required by the ACCC in relation to the Proposed 
Independent Auditor. 
 
This form is to be used for each of the above appointments. 
 
Please note in relation to information given on in relation to this form, giving false or 
misleading information is a serious offence.   
 
METHOD OF DELIVERY TO THE ACCC 
The completed Proposed Independent Auditor form, along with the additional requested 
information is to be provided to the ACCC with the subject line Proposed Independent 
Auditor Form – AGL Energy Limited Undertaking to the below email addresses: 
a. Email address:  
mergers@accc.gov.au 
 
 
Attention:  Executive General Manager 
 
 
 
 Mergers and Adjudication Group 
b. With a  copy sent to:  mergersucu@accc.gov.au 
 
 
Attention:  Director  Undertakings Compliance Unit 
 
 
 
 Coordination and Strategy Branch 
 
 
 
 Mergers and Adjudication Group  
 
INFORMATION REQUIRED 
The ACCC requires the following information in order to assess a Proposed Independent 
Auditor. 
1) 
Proposed Independent Auditor Details 
Name of the 
Proposed 
Independent Auditor 
 
Name of the 
Proposed 
Independent 
Auditor’s employer 
and contact details 
Address: 
 
Contact name: 
Telephone number: 
Other contact details: 
2) 
Submission containing the following: 
a. Details of the Proposed 
Independent Auditor’s 
qualifications and experience 
relevant to his or her proposed 
 


NON-CONFIDENTIAL PUBLIC VERSION 
 
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission under section 87B of 
the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth) by AGL Energy Limited 
 
9
role pursuant to the 
Undertaking 
b. Names of the owner/s and the 
directors (delete any that do 
not apply) of Proposed 
Independent Auditor’s 
employer 
 
c. Details of any of the following types of relationships between AGL and the 
Proposed Independent Auditor or the Proposed Independent Auditor’s 
employer or confirmation that no such relationship exists whether within 
Australia or outside of Australia: 
i. AGL and the Proposed 
Independent Auditor’s 
employer are Associated 
Entities 
 
ii. AGL is an Entity Connected 
with the Proposed 
Independent Auditor’s 
employer 
 
iii. The Proposed Independent 
Auditor’s employer is an Entity 
Connected with AGL 
 
iv. AGL and the Proposed 
Independent Auditor’s 
employer are Related Entities 
 
v. AGL and the Proposed 
Independent Auditor’s 
employer are Related Parties 
 
vi. Any Related Party, Related 
Entity or Entity Connected with 
AGL is a Related Party, 
Related Entity or Entity 
Connected with the Proposed 
Independent Auditor 
 
vii. AGL and the Proposed 
Independent Auditor or 
the Proposed Independent 
Auditor’s employer have a 
contractual relationship or had 
one within the past three 
years, other than those 
attached to this form 
 
viii. the Proposed Independent 
Auditor’s employer is a 
supplier of AGL or has been in 
the past three years 
 


NON-CONFIDENTIAL PUBLIC VERSION 
 
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission under section 87B of 
the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth) by AGL Energy Limited 
 
10
ix. AGL is a supplier of the the 
Proposed Independent 
Auditor’s employer or has 
been in the past three years 
 
x. Any other relationship 
between AGL and the 
Proposed Independent Auditor 
or the Proposed Independent 
Auditor’s employer that allows 
one to affect the business 
decisions of the other 
 
 
3) 
A document outlining the terms of appointment for the Proposed 
Independent Auditor. 
SPECIFIC INFORMATION REQUIRED FOR PROPOSED INDEPENDENT AUDITORS 
In relation to the relevant Proposed Independent Auditor, the ACCC also requires the 
finalised draft audit plan for the AGL business, drafted by the Proposed Independent 
Auditor and outlining (to the extent possible) the Proposed Independent Auditor’s plans in 
regard to the establishment audit and the Audit Report. 


NON-CONFIDENTIAL PUBLIC VERSION 
 
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission under section 87B of 
the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth) by AGL Energy Limited 
 
1
Annexure 1 - AGL Counterparty Trading Arrangements  
 
COUNTERPARTY ACCESS TO TRADING 
 
The AGL Wholesale Energy Risk Management Policy sets, for wholesale electricity 
counterparties, the credit exposure and maturity limits based upon the credit rating of a 
counterparty.  These limits allow for trading with sub-investment grade counterparties.  
 
 
Credit exposure and maturity limits 
 
Tier 
Credit Rating Range 
Exposure Limit 
Individual ($m) 
Maturity Limit (yrs) 
1 
 
 
 
2 
 
 
 
3 
 
 
 
4 
 
 
 
5 
 
 
 
6 
 
 
 
 
COUNTERPARTY TRADING APPROVAL ASSESSMENT 
 
AGL will assess the creditworthiness of all new counterparties prior to trading electricity 
derivative contracts with the counterparty (Counterparty Trading Approval 
Assessment). 
 
For the purposes of the Counterparty Trading Approval Assessment: 
 
(a) 
If a credit rating is available from any of Standard & Poor’s, Fitch Ratings or 
Moody’s then AGL will accept this rating for the purposes of its counterparty 
credit assessment. 
 
(b) 
If a credit rating is not available from the abovementioned ratings agency then 
AGL will perform an internal counterparty credit assessment.  
 
The AGL Risk Management Committee will review the credit review and credit rating of a 
counterparty and allocate them financial exposure and maturity limits for the 
counterparty's tier assigned by the Counterparty Trading Approval Assessment in 
accordance with the table set out above. 
 
COUNTERPARTY CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS 
 
AGL will only transact with new electricity counterparties following the negotiation and 
execution of an ISDA Master Agreement.  The existence of an ISDA Master Agreement 
enables traders to proceed with transactions without needing to renegotiate contract legal 
clauses.   
 
The ISDA Master Agreement entered into by AGL and the Eligible Participant will: 
 
(a) 
establish each party’s rights to request credit support under defined 
circumstances; and 
 
(b) 
include a credit support annex, which requires a party to provide a guarantee for 
the Credit Support Amount (via a Bank Guarantee for parties with less than an 
"A" credit rating) if their credit rating drops below investment grade or is below 
investment grade at the time of the Counterparty Trading Approval Assessment.  


NON-CONFIDENTIAL PUBLIC VERSION 
 
Undertaking given to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission under section 87B of 
the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth) by AGL Energy Limited 
 
2
 
DEFINITIONS 
 
AGL Risk Management Committee means the executive committee as constituted by 
AGL's Wholesale Energy Risk Management Policy. 
 
Bank Benchmark Credit Rating means: 
(a) 
an S&P rating of A–;  
(b) 
a Moody’s rating of A3; and 
(c) 
a Fitch rating of A–, 
provided that if, after the date of this Undertaking, the description or nomenclature of a 
Ratings Agency’s ratings changes, or the manner in which that Ratings Agency’s ratings 
are calculated or derived changes, that Ratings Agency’s Bank Benchmark Credit Rating 
is the rating of that Ratings Agency which after the change most closely corresponds to 
the relevant rating specified in paragraph (a), (b) or (c) above.   
 
Bank Guarantee means a guarantee from a bank with an office in Australia with a credit 
rating not less than the Bank Benchmark Credit Rating (as guarantor), in favour of AGL 
(as beneficiary), in respect of the obligations of the counterparty under the ISDA Master 
Agreement).  
 
Credit Support Amount means the amount required to reduce the credit exposure to 
below the credit exposure limit plus a margin based upon a credit exposure change from 
a market price shift of not greater than $5MWh.  
Fitch means Fitch Inc, Fitch Ratings Ltd or Fitch Ratings Australia Pty Ltd or the 
successor of any of them. 
Moody’s means Moody’s Investor Services or Moody’s Investor Service Pty Ltd or the 
successor of either of them. 
Ratings Agency means S&P, Moody’s or Fitch. 
 
Standard & Poors means Standard & Poor’s (a division of McGraw-Hill Inc) or Standard 
& Poor’s (Australia) Pty Ltd. 
 
Wholesale Energy Risk Management Policy means the policy titled Wholesale Energy 
Risk Management Policy approved by AGL's board of directors as amended from time to 
time.   
