 
Public Competition Assessment 
13 August 2008 
Westpac Banking Corporation – proposed acquisition of St George 
Bank Limited 
A  Introduction 
1. 
On 13 August 2008, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission 
(ACCC) announced its decision not to oppose the proposed acquisition of 
St George Bank Limited by Westpac Banking Corporation (proposed 
acquisition). The ACCC was of the view that the proposed acquisition would not 
be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in any relevant 
market, in contravention of section 50 of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (the Act). 
2. 
The ACCC formed its view on the proposed acquisition on the basis of the 
information provided by the merger parties and information arising from its 
market inquiries. This Public Competition Assessment outlines the basis on 
which the ACCC has reached its decision on the proposed acquisition, subject to 
confidentiality considerations. 
B 
Public competition assessment 
3. 
To provide an enhanced level of transparency and procedural fairness in its 
decision making process, the ACCC issues a Public Competition Assessment for 
all transaction proposals where: 
• a merger is opposed; 
• a merger is subject to enforceable undertakings; 
• the merger parties seek such disclosure; or 
• a merger is not opposed but raises important issues that the ACCC considers 
should be made public. 
4. 
This Public Competition Assessment has been issued because the proposed 
acquisition is considered to raise issues of interest to the public. 
5. 
By issuing Public Competition Assessments, the ACCC aims to provide the 
public with a better understanding of the ACCC’s analysis of various markets and 
the associated merger and competition issues. It also alerts the market to the 


Westpac Banking Corporation - proposed acquisition of St George Bank Limited 
2 
circumstances where the ACCC’s assessment of the competition conditions in 
particular markets is changing, or likely to change, because of developments.  
6. 
Each Public Competition Assessment is specific to the particular transaction 
under review by the ACCC. While some transaction proposals may involve the 
same or related markets, it should not be assumed that the analysis and decision 
outlined in one Public Competition Assessment will be conclusive of the ACCC’s 
view in respect of other transaction proposals, as each matter will be considered 
on its own merits.  
7. 
Many of the ACCC’s decisions will involve consideration of both 
non-confidential and confidential information provided by the merger parties and 
market participants. In order to maintain the confidentiality of particular 
information, Public Competition Assessments do not contain any confidential 
information or its sources. While the ACCC aims to provide an appropriately 
detailed explanation of the basis for the ACCC decision, where this is not 
possible, maintaining confidentiality will be the ACCC’s paramount concern, and 
accordingly a Public Competition Assessment may not definitively explain all 
issues and the ACCC’s analysis of such issues. 
C 
The parties 
The acquirer – Westpac Banking Corporation (Westpac) 
8. 
Westpac is the third largest retail bank in Australia by market capitalisation, 
valued at approximately $45 billion. Westpac’s principal business activities 
include:  
• Personal banking: transaction and savings accounts, home loans, personal 
loans, credit cards, insurance and financial advice; 
• Business banking: small to medium enterprise (SME) banking services, 
agribusiness, lending and deposit products; 
• Corporate and institutional banking: through Westpac Institutional Bank, 
includes the provision of a range of financial services to corporate and 
institutional customers; and 
• Wealth management and insurance: through subsidiary BT Group and its 
affiliates, the provision of funds management, superannuation, insurance, 
financial planning and wrap and master trust platform products. 
9. 
Westpac operates a comprehensive branch and ATM network in each Australian 
state.  


Westpac Banking Corporation - proposed acquisition of St George Bank Limited 
3 
The target – St George Bank Limited (St George) 
10. 
St George is Australia’s fifth largest retail bank by market capitalisation, 
currently valued at around $16 billion. St George’s principal business activities 
include: 
• Personal banking: transaction and savings accounts, insurance, residential 
and consumer lending (through St George Bank and Bank SA); 
• Business banking: a range of financial services for small business and 
agribusiness (through Bank SA);  
• Corporate and institutional banking: financial services for corporate, 
institutional and government customers; and 
• Wealth management: through subsidiary Asgard and its affiliates, the 
provision of funds management, investment advice, financial planning and 
wrap and master trust platform products. 
11. 
St George operates a branch and ATM network Australia-wide (excluding 
Tasmania), with a strong presence in NSW, the ACT and SA (through Bank SA). 
D 
Areas of overlap  
12. 
The merger parties overlap in the areas of personal banking, business banking, 
corporate and institutional banking, wealth management and insurance. Section I 
includes a discussion of the ACCC’s views on market definition in each of these 
areas. Section J summarises the ACCC’s views on the likely impact of the 
transaction on competition in each market.  
E 
Industry background 
Retail (personal and business) banking 
13. 
The national retail banking landscape has historically been dominated by the four 
major banks — the National Australia Bank (NAB), Commonwealth Bank of 
Australia (CBA), Australia and New Zealand Banking Group (ANZ) and 
Westpac — with a number of regional banks competing against the majors in 
each state. Key regional banks include: St George in NSW, Bendigo Bank in 
Victoria, Suncorp and Bank of Queensland in Queensland, Bank West in WA and 
Bank SA in SA.  
14. 
In recent years, regional banks have been expanding outside of their home states 
(through organic growth and acquisition). For example, Bank West is expanding 
its presence on the eastern seaboard and Bank of Queensland and Suncorp are 
expanding into the southern states and WA.  


Westpac Banking Corporation - proposed acquisition of St George Bank Limited 
4 
15. 
Foreign banks entered the Australian market following deregulation in the 
mid-1980s, including HSBC, ING Direct and Rabobank. While these banks have 
a limited presence in retail banking overall, they are significant competitors for 
particular products (e.g. ING Direct for savings accounts and Rabobank for 
agribusiness banking).  
16. 
Deregulation also facilitated competition from non-banks, such as building 
societies and credit unions, which tend to differentiate themselves from the major 
banks based on service levels.  
17. 
Mergers between the ‘big four’ banks are currently prevented by the ‘four pillars’ 
policy, introduced by Treasurer Paul Keating in 1990. The Federal Treasurer, 
Wayne Swan, recently announced that the current Australian Government would 
retain this policy. 
F 
Timing 
18. 
The following table outlines the timeline of key events in this matter. 
Date 
Event 
02 Jun 2008 
11 Jun 2008 
23 Jun 2008 
 
23 Jul 2008 
 
30 Jul 2008 
 
06 Aug 2008 
13 Aug 2008 
ACCC commenced its review under the Merger Review Process Guidelines. 
Market inquiries commenced.  
Closing date for submissions from interested parties and survey responses 
from banking customers. 
ACCC published a Statement of Issues outlining preliminary competition 
concerns. 
Former proposed date for announcement of ACCC's findings, amended to 
allow for comments on the Statement of Issues. 
Closing date for submissions relating to the Statement of Issues. 
Announcement of ACCC’s decision. 
G 
Market inquiries 
19. 
The ACCC conducted extensive market inquiries in relation to the proposed 
acquisition. A range of interested parties provided responses including 
competitors, industry and consumer associations, downstream users of products 
(including mortgage brokers and financial advisors) and interested third parties.  
20. 
The ACCC also conducted two confidential customer surveys — one for personal 
banking customers and the other for business banking customers. The ACCC 
received 240 responses to the personal banking survey and 25 responses to the 
business banking survey.  
21. 
Similar to the ACCC’s general market inquiries process, responses were used to 
assist with the ACCC’s understanding of personal and business banking habits 
and to identify areas of customer concern for the ACCC to explore further. The 
survey results were not treated as necessarily reflective of the banking habits or 
concerns of the general population but were used as a starting point for the 
ACCC’s further inquiries.  


Westpac Banking Corporation - proposed acquisition of St George Bank Limited 
5 
H 
Statement of Issues 
22. 
On 23 July 2008, the ACCC published a Statement of Issues regarding the 
proposed acquisition. The Statement of Issues identified the aggregation of the 
BT (Westpac) and Asgard (St George) wrap platforms as a preliminary 
competition concern. All other areas of aggregation arising from the transaction 
were noted as unlikely to raise concerns.  
23. 
The ACCC sought further submissions from interested parties regarding the 
matters raised in the Statement of Issues. The Statement of Issues is available on 
the ACCC’s website at www.accc.gov.au/statementsofissues. 
I 
The ACCC’s merger assessment process 
24. 
Section 50 of the Act prohibits an acquisition if it would be likely to have the 
effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. Accordingly, to analyse 
the competitive impact of a particular merger, the ACCC’s first task is to define 
the relevant market(s). The ACCC’s views on market definition in relation to this 
matter are summarised in section J.  
25. 
The ACCC’s second task is to analyse competition in each market. In doing so, 
the ACCC examines the actual and potential sources of constraint on the merged 
firm if the acquisition were to proceed (based on the merger factors included in 
section 50(3) of the Act). A summary of the ACCC’s views on the likely impact 
of competition in each of the relevant markets is provided in section K.  
J 
Market definition 
26. 
The ACCC considered a number of relevant markets under each of the key 
product areas – personal banking, business banking, corporate and institutional 
banking, wealth management and insurance.  
Retail (personal and business) banking 
27. 
The market definitions adopted by the ACCC for the purposes of assessing this 
matter are summarised in table 1.  
Product dimension 
28. 
The ACCC’s market inquiries broadly supported the delineation of product 
markets in table 1. The only areas for which conflicting views were raised were 
in relation to personal lending products and the small-to-medium enterprise 
(SME) banking ‘cluster’. 


Westpac Banking Corporation - proposed acquisition of St George Bank Limited 
6 
Table 1 
Retail banking markets 
Product dimension 
Geographic 
dimension 
Functional characteristics 
Personal banking markets 
Transaction accounts 
Local but price 
competition is national 
Provide day-to-day deposit and payment functionality in 
the form of cheque books, debit cards, BPay, internet 
and phone banking.  
Deposit/term 
products 
National 
Traditional savings instrument with a focus on growth in 
the capital value of the deposited funds. 
Credit cards 
National 
Short-term unsecured lending product for individual 
consumers.  
Home loans 
National  
Mortgage lending to individuals for the purpose of 
acquiring residential property. 
Personal loans 
National 
Lending to individuals for the purposes of purchasing 
large personal consumption items. 
Hybrid personal loans 
(margin loans) 
National  
Flexible lending provided to individuals for the purpose 
of acquiring shares or investing in funds or for drawing 
on the equity in assets. 
Business banking markets 
SME banking 
Local but price 
competition is national 
A ‘cluster’ of banking products encompassing credit 
products, transaction/cash facilities, merchant acquiring 
services and banking advice.  
Equipment finance 
 National 
Includes lease finance products and hire-purchase 
products. The lease provider purchases capital 
equipment and leases it to the business for an agreed 
term, commonly two to five years. 
Agribusiness banking 
Local but price 
competition is national 
A ‘cluster’ of banking products for agricultural 
businesses with a central element being specialised 
lending products including very long-term credit 
instruments.  
 
29. 
Some market participants argued that there are increasing levels of demand-side 
substitutability between credit cards, personal loans and some home loan 
products (lines of credit). However, the ACCC considers that there are several 
practical differences between the various personal lending products that limit 
demand-side substitutability. Indeed, the differences in interest rates, accessibility 
and functionality are such that the ACCC considers that these products are 
appropriately treated as separate product markets. 
30. 
In previous banking merger assessments, the ACCC has defined a SME banking 
‘cluster’ market to include a range of transaction, savings and lending products.1 
Market inquiries for this matter largely supported the notion that SMEs will tend 
to source a bundle of banking products from their main financial institution. 
Customer research data obtained by the ACCC provided further evidence of this.  
31. 
However, the merger parties and some market participants argued that there was 
evidence that SMEs were ‘unbundling’ certain products from the cluster. In 
particular, equipment finance and merchant acquiring services were noted as 
products that were increasingly sourced separately to an SME’s primary banking 
relationship. 
                                                 
1 Previous matters include Commonwealth/Colonial (2000) and Westpac/Bank of Melbourne (1997). 


Westpac Banking Corporation - proposed acquisition of St George Bank Limited 
7 
32. 
The ACCC considers that there is compelling evidence to suggest that equipment 
finance is a separate product market. Survey data provided to the ACCC suggests 
that most SMEs source equipment finance outside their primary banking 
relationship. Indeed, the ACCC understands that a significant proportion of new 
equipment finance is written through brokers.  
33. 
For merchant acquiring services, on the other hand, industry survey data suggests 
that the majority of SMEs still source these products through their main banking 
relationship. The ACCC therefore considers that merchant acquiring services are 
appropriately defined as part of the SME bundle. 
Geographic dimension 
34. 
The ACCC has considered the geographic dimension of competition for each of 
the retail banking markets based on: 
• the importance of a physical presence (branch and ATM networks) in 
consumer choice of provider; and 
• the geographic scope of decision making of financial institutions, and in 
particular, the variation across regions in key elements of the service 
offering — product range, prices and service levels.  
35. 
The ACCC considers that there are several banking products for which a physical 
presence is a key determinant of customer choice — namely transaction accounts, 
SME and agribusiness banking. Market inquiries suggested that customers take 
account of the physical presence of providers— the presence of a branch in a 
convenient location and the extent of the ATM network — in choosing between 
financial institutions for these products. This was also supported by market 
survey data provided to the ACCC and responses to the ACCC customer surveys. 
36. 
For SME and agribusiness banking, the importance of the branch network reflects 
the ‘relationship driven’ nature of business banking. Most banks stressed the 
importance of having a face-to-face relationship with their business clients. 
Market survey data provided to the ACCC suggests that the majority of SME 
businesses visit their branch more than once a week.  
37. 
For transaction accounts, the importance of a physical presence reflects both 
demand from certain segments of the customer base for in-branch transactions, 
and, more generally, customers seeking to avoid ‘foreign ATM’ fees by having 
access to a comprehensive ‘own bank’ ATM network.  
38. 
In contrast, the evidence provided to the ACCC suggests that a physical presence 
is not an important determinant of consumer choice for other retail banking 
products — namely, deposit/term products, credit cards, home loans, personal 
loans, hybrid personal loans (margin loans) and equipment finance. 


Westpac Banking Corporation - proposed acquisition of St George Bank Limited 
8 
39. 
Evidence from market inquiries as well as data on the use of various channels 
illustrates that branch usage for these products is very low. Responses to the 
ACCC customer surveys demonstrated that service levels, fees and interest rates, 
and the availability of internet banking are more important to customers of these 
products than the location of branches and ATM availability. 
40. 
Changes in the modes of distribution for each of these products, in particular a 
greater reliance on the internet, telephone and broker channels, has meant that a 
customer can obtain one of these products, transact and manage their relationship 
with their financial institution without visiting a branch. This trend has allowed 
institutions to compete in regions where they do not have a physical presence — 
for example, ING Direct has attracted a significant share of the Australian 
savings account market by distributing its products solely through the internet.  
41. 
The ACCC notes there is strong evidence to suggest that price competition in all 
retail banking product markets is national. Market inquiries indicated that most 
financial institutions manufacture, distribute, market and price products on a 
national basis. The merger parties provided comprehensive information about 
their internal processes for developing products and setting prices that provided 
further support for this. 
42. 
The ACCC explored the possibility that branch or local area managers could 
effect local price competition through providing discounts on certain products. 
However, information provided to the ACCC suggests that while these managers 
are, in some cases, afforded discretion to discount products, the discretion tends 
to accord with a pre-determined formula based on the degree of customer risk and 
the customer’s current product holdings.  
43. 
Other aspects of the merger parties’ service provision, including staffing levels, 
marketing and branch opening hours, are also centrally determined. In the case of 
staffing levels, these are set according to a formula based on historic levels of 
customer demand. Competition for these aspects of the service offering also 
appear to be national.  
Corporate and institutional banking 
44. 
The corporate and institutional banking segment services the financial needs of 
large corporations, institutions, and government customers, including specialised 
service and advice in the areas of liquidity requirements, funding, interest rate 
management, capital transactions, debt/equity underwriting, foreign exchange 
markets, trade finance, international payments, international cash management, 
and project finance and commercial property lending. 
45. 
The ACCC does not consider it necessary to reach a definitive view on the 
relevant market definitions in this matter because competition concerns are 
unlikely to arise regardless of the definitions adopted.  


Westpac Banking Corporation - proposed acquisition of St George Bank Limited 
9 
Wealth management  
46. 
The ACCC considered the overlap between Westpac (BT) and St George’s 
(Asgard and Advance) wealth management operations in the following areas: 
• wholesale funds management; 
• multi-manager investments; 
• retail (wrap and master trust) platforms; 
• financial advice from licensed financial planners; and 
• non-advisory stockbroking services. 
47. 
With the exception of the market for retail platforms, the ACCC does not 
consider it necessary to reach a definitive view on market definition as 
competition concerns do not arise irrespective of the market definition adopted.  
48. 
Issues were raised by market participants in relation to retail platforms. The 
relevant market definition is discussed below.  
Market definition for retail platforms 
49. 
The ACCC has defined separate (but related) national markets for: 
• the supply of platforms to institutions, independent dealer groups and 
financial advisor businesses; and 
• the supply of investments through retail platforms to investors.  
50. 
The significant majority of financial planning groups and platform providers 
contacted by the ACCC considered that wraps and master trusts compete directly 
for distribution by financial planners, and ultimately, to attract investors. The 
merger parties provided evidence (including board papers and other internal 
reports) that they benchmark their product offering and performance against a 
number of competing platforms — both wraps and master trusts. Industry studies 
also tend to benchmark master trusts and wraps against each other. 
51. 
Some participants commented that the difference in legal structure between these 
products (in particular the custodial nature of the wrap investments) will mean 
that an investor is unlikely to view investment through a master trust as a viable 
substitute for a wrap platform. In addition to noting that this distinction between 
the products only applies for non-superannuation investment (all superannuation 
platforms are required to operate via a trust structure), most dealer groups 
submitted that this distinction would not materially influence the majority of 
investment decisions made at the financial advisor or investor level. 
52. 
While the ACCC understands that wraps have offered investors advantages in 
terms of electronic transaction capability and access to direct investments (such 
as shares), market participants submitted that master trusts are being upgraded 
and are increasingly able to offer similar functionality and investment choices.  


Westpac Banking Corporation - proposed acquisition of St George Bank Limited 
10 
53. 
The ACCC considers that, based on the functional similarities between the two 
products and the views of both platform suppliers and dealer groups, wraps and 
master trusts are appropriately defined as being in the same product market. 
However, the ACCC notes that wrap products may compete more strongly for 
certain types of investors.  
54. 
The ACCC also explored the substitutability between retail platforms and other 
avenues for retail investment such as multi-manager investments, industry funds 
and direct investments (such as shares). The ACCC notes that platforms offer a 
range of benefits (particularly in terms of diversity of investment choice, 
including the potential for investment in wholesale funds) and functionality that 
are not available through other retail investment channels. The ACCC notes that 
if the proposed acquisition does not raise competition concerns in the market 
narrowly defined (excluding other investment products) it is unlikely to raise 
concerns in any broader market. 
Insurance 
55. 
The merger parties overlap in the provision of both general and life insurance 
products. The ACCC does not consider it necessary to reach a definitive view on 
these market definitions in this matter because competition concerns are unlikely 
to arise regardless of the definitions adopted.  
J 
Competition analysis 
56. 
Westpac has claimed that if the acquisition proceeds it will continue to operate 
St George as a distinct retail brand. The ACCC notes that even if this is the case, 
common ownership will remove the incentive for the two organisations to 
compete on price or on other aspects of the service offering. Therefore, the 
ACCC has conducted its competition analysis on the basis that St George will no 
longer remain as an independent competitor post-acquisition.  
Retail (personal and business) banking 
Market structure and competitors – national 
57. 
As noted above, the ACCC considers that the geographic dimension of 
competition is national for the majority of retail banking markets. Further, the 
ACCC is of the view that price competition occurs at a national level in all retail 
banking markets. Accordingly, the ACCC analysed whether the proposed 
acquisition would lead to a substantial lessening of competition at a national level 
in any retail banking market.  
58. 
Table 2 illustrates that, on a national basis, St George has a relatively small share 
in each of the retail product markets – ranging from around 4% for credit cards to 
9% for margin lending and SME banking. Post-acquisition, the merged entity’s 
national share will range between 15% and 25% across the various markets. 


Westpac Banking Corporation - proposed acquisition of St George Bank Limited 
11 
59. 
The market share figures are derived from a number of sources. The ACCC 
considers these figures to be the best estimates available for the purposes of this 
assessment. 
Table 2 
National market shares 
Markets 
St George 
Merged entity 
Personal banking markets 
Transaction accounts 
7% 
19% 
Deposit/term products 
7% 
20% 
Credit cards 
4% 
20% 
Home loans 
8% 
21% 
Personal loans 
8% 
20% 
Hybrid personal loans (margin loans) 
9% 
23% 
Business banking markets 
SME banking 
8–9% 
22–23% 
Merchant acquiring services  
8% 
25% 
Equipment finance 
8% 
18% 
Agribusiness banking 
2% 
15% 
 
60. 
The ACCC notes that a range of independent competitors will remain in the 
various retail markets post-acquisition and, in particular, each of the other three 
major banks and the regional banks. Credit unions, building societies, the foreign 
banks and niche players also compete in the various markets and, in some cases, 
are particularly strong competitors. For instance, HSBC and ING Direct are 
strong competitors for deposit/term products and GE Capital Finance has a 
significant presence in equipment finance. 
Market structure and competitors – local 
61. 
The ACCC has considered competition at a local level for those markets it 
considers are appropriately defined as local — transaction accounts, SME 
banking and agribusiness banking. The local elements of competition tend to be 
around branch-based delivery and service levels. 
62. 
The ACCC analysed state/territory market share data as a proxy for local market 
shares (table 3). St George has a sizeable local presence in NSW, the ACT and 
SA. In other states/territories, it has a very small share of the market, from as 
little as 0.1% of the market for transaction accounts in Tasmania to 6.5% in the 
NT. The merged entity will have a market share between 12% and 21% in each of 
the state/territory markets post-acquisition. 


Westpac Banking Corporation - proposed acquisition of St George Bank Limited 
12 
Table 3 
State/territory market shares 
Markets 
St George 
Merged entity 
 
NSW / ACT 
SA 
Other 
states/ 
territories a 
NSW / ACT
SA 
Other 
states/ 
territories 
Personal banking market 
Transaction accounts 
15% 
20% 
<1 – 7% 
26% 
24% 
12 – 21% 
Business banking markets 
SME banking 
6%  
15% 
<1 – 3% 
22% 
25% 
15 – 18% 
Agribusiness banking b
1% 
14%  
< 1% 
16% 
19% 
12 – 14% 
a Estimate excludes St George’s market share in the NT which is around 7% for transaction accounts and 
6% for SME banking. b For agribusiness banking, the market share for SA also includes the share in NT. 
63. 
The ACCC notes that a number of significant local competitors remain in these 
markets post-acquisition including the three other major banks, the other regional 
banks and in the case of agribusiness banking, niche players such as Rabobank. 
The ACCC also understands that credit unions and building societies — strong 
competitors on customer service — represent a significant share of transaction 
accounts in the states/territories where St George has a strong presence (18% in 
NSW and the ACT and 24% in SA). 
64. 
The ACCC also considered the aggregation of branches and ATMs arising from 
the acquisition in each state and territory. In NSW and the ACT, the merged 
entity will operate just over one fifth of branches and around 26% of ATMs. In 
SA, around one third of branches and ATMs will be owned by the merged entity. 
65. 
There remain a number of competitors in each state with a strong branch presence 
and ATM network, most notably the other major banks. For transaction accounts 
— many credit unions, despite being small players independently — provide their 
customers with access to a comprehensive ATM network through the pooled 
Rediteller network, and in some cases offering discounted or free transactions at 
foreign ATMs.  
66. 
The ACCC also notes that a number of regional banks are expanding their 
physical presence in an attempt to reach ‘critical mass’ in markets outside their 
home state. Bank West, Bank of Queensland, Suncorp and Bendigo Bank are all 
pursuing expansion strategies in states and territories where they have not 
previously had a large physical presence. For example, Bank of Queensland and 
Bendigo Bank each have built up a notable physical presence in NSW with 
55 branches and almost 600 ATMs and 51 branches and 70 ATMs, respectively.  


Westpac Banking Corporation - proposed acquisition of St George Bank Limited 
13 
67. 
Westpac has claimed that there will be no net reduction in branch and ATM 
numbers as a result of the proposed acquisition. The ACCC notes that even if the 
merged firm decided to close some branches — in an environment where most 
banks are expanding their branch networks, and in particular, the regional banks 
are expanding into new states — this may create an incentive for further entry or 
expansion in local markets. The ACCC notes that while barriers to establishing a 
national presence are high, barriers for existing players to expand their presence 
into new local markets are comparatively low (see below). 
Barriers to entry and expansion 
68. 
The ACCC considers that the barriers to large scale national entry for all retail 
banking products are high and are particularly significant for branch-centric 
products. It is notable that even for those products that do not require a physical 
presence, almost all the new entry in recent years has come from large 
international financial institutions. 
69. 
Regulatory barriers are significant for authorised deposit-taking institutions but 
also appear to be high for specialist credit card institutions. Both types of 
institutions are required comply with a host of prudential regulations, including 
large capital requirements.  
70. 
Almost all market participants noted that current credit conditions have had the 
effect of raising barriers to entry for lenders. In particular, the closure of 
securitisation markets and the increase in the cost of credit has meant that many 
non-bank players have exited lending markets and some other players have 
ceased writing new loans in the interim. Similarly, market participants have 
commented that the relative increase in their costs of funds may make it more 
difficult for the smaller financial institutions (with less favourable credit ratings) 
to compete in the short term.  
71. 
The ACCC considers that the high degree of customer ‘stickiness’ for many retail 
banking products may further increase entry barriers. Many market participants 
noted that it is often difficult and time-consuming for a customer to compare one 
product with another. In addition, even if a customer is aware of a product that is 
a ‘better deal’ in terms of price, the inconvenience and, in some cases financial 
cost (e.g. mortgage exit fees), may deter switching. The ACCC notes that the 
Australian Government’s switching initiatives may act to somewhat reduce these 
barriers.  
72. 
For those products that require a physical presence to attract market share, the 
capital costs of establishing a strong national presence (or indeed even in one 
state) are significant. The ACCC assessed that it would cost in the order of 
$70 million to roll out a branch and ATM network of a size sufficient to attract a 
transaction account market share of at least 10% in a state market the size of WA. 
73. 
The ACCC considers that barriers to expansion for existing players into new local 
markets are comparatively low. The set up costs of a new branch is around 
$800,000, while the cost of a new ATM is around $45,000. The ongoing costs do 
not appear to be particularly high.  


Westpac Banking Corporation - proposed acquisition of St George Bank Limited 
14 
74. 
Notably, a number of the regional banks are adopting different models to reduce 
the cost of rolling out branches into new local areas. For example, Bank of 
Queensland has a franchise business model whereby individual branches are 
owner-operated but are branded Bank of Queensland. Bendigo Bank has adopted 
a community bank business model (whereby individual branches are owned and 
operated by local communities). 
Is St George a uniquely vigorous and effective competitor? 
75. 
The ACCC notes that the level of aggregation arising from the proposed 
acquisition is relatively low in each of the retail banking markets. Further, a 
number of competitors, both large and small, will remain in each of the markets 
post-acquisition. In such circumstances, the proposed acquisition is unlikely to 
result in competition concerns unless it can be shown that St George is a uniquely 
vigorous and effective competitor in driving price or non-price competition in the 
market (including by defeating attempts at coordinated conduct).  
76. 
The ACCC has drawn on a large volume of information in assessing the role of 
St George in driving competition in the various retail banking markets. This 
includes pricing data (across all products over a period of three years), 
documentary evidence provided by the merger parties (including internal pricing 
committee documents), and information provided by market participants and 
ACCC customer survey respondents.  
77. 
Based on the pricing information analysed by the ACCC and the information 
submitted by market participants, the ACCC is aware of instances of St George 
being a price leader for certain products. For example, at times St George has 
offered the lowest rate on certain fixed rate home loan products. However, the 
ACCC notes that such examples of price leadership were relatively rare in the 
three years of pricing data examined. Certainly there is no evidence to suggest 
that St George was a sustained price leader (or that Westpac frequently responded 
to St George’s prices) on any particular product. 
78. 
A number of market participants argued that St George has differentiated its 
offering from other players in the market through its focus on customer service. 
Indeed, market research data illustrates that St George consistently outperforms 
the major banks (other than ANZ) on measures of customer satisfaction. 
However, the ACCC notes there are other players that perform even more 
strongly in customer satisfaction surveys including credit unions and the other 
regional banks. Further, ANZ’s move to differentiate itself from the other major 
banks on the strength of its customer service demonstrates that it is possible for 
competitors to replicate these elements of the service offering.  


Westpac Banking Corporation - proposed acquisition of St George Bank Limited 
15 
79. 
The ACCC does not consider that there is sufficient evidence to demonstrate that 
St George has been a uniquely vigorous and effective competitor in any of the 
retail banking markets, at least to the extent that would be required to show that 
the removal of St George as an independent player would be likely to lead to a 
substantial lessening of competition. The ACCC does however acknowledge the 
role that regional banks have played in challenging the major banks as they have 
entered new states and competed aggressively to gain market share. The ACCC 
will closely analyse the likely competition implications of any further proposed 
acquisitions of regional banks.  
Conclusion 
80. 
The ACCC considers that the proposed acquisition would be unlikely to result in 
a substantial lessening of competition in any of the retail banking markets. 
Barriers to national entry are high and appear to be even more significant for 
branch-centric products. However, the level of aggregation arising from this 
transaction is relatively limited and a number of competitors — the other three 
majors, regional banks, credit unions and building societies, and other niche 
players — will pose a constraint on the merged entity post-acquisition. Further, 
while St George is competitive in terms of price and customer service, it does not 
appear to be unique or a market leader in either attribute. 
Corporate and institutional banking 
81. 
The corporate and institutional banking space appears to be highly competitive. It 
is contested by all national banks as well as the large merchant banks and 
international securities houses, such as UBS, HSBC, Deutsche Bank, Macquarie 
Bank and JP Morgan. St George has a minimal presence in these markets. 
82. 
The ACCC considers that the proposed acquisition would be unlikely to result in 
a substantial lessening of competition in these markets. 
Wealth management  
83. 
Other than for retail platforms, no market participants raised concerns in relation 
to the impact of the proposed acquisition on wealth management markets. Indeed, 
St George (Asgard and Advance) and Westpac (BT), have a limited presence in 
wholesale funds management and non-advisory stockbroking services. For 
multi-manager investments and financial advice, the ACCC notes there will 
remain a significant number of large independent competitors in these markets 
post-acquisition. 
Retail (wrap and master trust) platforms 
84. 
In the Statement of Issues, the ACCC identified the aggregation of two of the 
three largest providers of wrap platforms as a potential competition concern. For 
the reasons outlined above, the ACCC is of the view that wraps and master trust 
platforms are demand-side substitutes and are therefore appropriately considered 
as part of broader markets for the supply of retail platforms to dealer groups and 
to investors.  


Westpac Banking Corporation - proposed acquisition of St George Bank Limited 
16 
Market structure and competitors 
85. 
The ACCC analysed market share data based on the level and growth in funds 
under administration (FUA) for each platform supplier. Outside of the merger 
parties, there are a range of platform suppliers that have attracted and continue to 
attract significant funds including CBA/Colonial, NAB/MLC, Macquarie, AXA 
and ING Australia. As discussed above, both platform suppliers and dealer 
groups considered that these platforms compete directly with those of the merger 
parties both in terms of attracting dealer groups and investors.  
86. 
Even accounting for the fact that wrap platforms compete more closely with each 
other, at least for some investors, a number of significant competitors remain in 
this segment including Macquarie, Avanteos (CBA) and Oasis. While some 
market participants submitted that only the largest three wrap platforms (BT, 
Asgard and Macquarie) would have sufficient ‘scalability’ to meet their needs, 
this was rejected by other large dealer groups, with many noting that they utilise 
wrap platforms outside of these three.  
Barriers to entry 
87. 
The ACCC considers that the barriers to new entry for retail platform supply are 
significant. Indeed, there are considerable barriers to entering on the scale that 
would be required to be a competitive threat to existing key players. 
88. 
Many market participants noted that the capital costs of entry are significant 
because of the sophisticated technology required. Estimates of the cost to create a 
platform with functionality similar to the key players ranged from around $30 to 
$100 million. These participants also noted that ongoing development costs and 
maintenance costs are significant. 
89. 
Some participants noted that it would be difficult to achieve the scale necessary 
to defray the significant capital costs of new entry because of barriers to 
customers switching platforms. The ACCC acknowledges that there are barriers 
to switching investors’ stock of funds across platforms because of the 
administrative burden and potential tax implications. However, new flows into 
this market are growing strongly — Plan for Life predicts that the platforms 
investment market will grow from around $400 billion today to $972 billion in 
2017.  
90. 
The ACCC considers that new funds are far more contestable, indeed, dealer 
groups have demonstrated a willingness to divert new funds from their clients to 
a new platform (even if they keep the existing stock of funds with the existing 
platform). 
Dynamic characteristics of the market 
91. 
The ACCC considers that markets for attracting retail investment dollars are 
highly dynamic, driven by technological advances and the large and growing pool 
of investment funds.  


Westpac Banking Corporation - proposed acquisition of St George Bank Limited 
17 
92. 
A number of market participants pointed to separately-managed accounts (SMAs) 
as the ‘next big thing’ on the investment horizon in Australia. SMAs are a 
portfolio made up of securities that are beneficially owned by the individual 
investor and managed by professional managers. There has been recent entry in 
this space from large international and domestic players — for example, 
BlackRock Investment Management Australia (formerly Merrill Lynch) and Next 
Financial.  
93. 
Market participants have noted that SMAs are more tax efficient than investments 
through retail platforms and typically have lower management fees. The ACCC 
considers that the threat of expansion by providers of these new products is likely 
to put further competitive pressure on retail platform providers. 
Conclusion 
94. 
The ACCC considers that the proposed acquisition would be unlikely to result in 
a substantial lessening of competition in the markets for the supply of retail 
platforms. There remain a number of strong competitors including other wrap 
platforms — such as Macquarie, Avanteos (CBA), and Oasis (ING/ANZ)  — as 
well as a number of master trust platforms including CFS First Choice, MLC 
(NAB) and Navigator (Aviva). The ACCC further considers that the highly 
dynamic and technology driven nature of this market means that new competitive 
threats are likely to emerge in any case, as already evident in the availability of 
SMA products.  
Insurance 
95. 
Westpac and St George both provide personal (general and life) insurance 
products. Westpac manufactures and supplies some insurance products while 
St George distributes IAG general insurance products (one of the largest general 
insurance providers along with Suncorp).  
96. 
Both Westpac and St George are small participants in the retail supply of general 
and life insurance products. The ACCC also notes there will remain a number of 
strong competitors post-acquisition.  
97. 
The ACCC considers that the proposed acquisition would be unlikely to result in 
a substantial lessening of competition in any insurance markets. 
K 
Conclusion 
98. 
On the basis of the factors set out above, the ACCC formed the view that the 
proposed acquisition would be unlikely to result in a substantial lessening of 
competition in any of the relevant markets.  
