Public Competition Assessment
10 January 2007
Hexion Specialty Chemicals Pty Ltd - proposed acquisition of
Orica Australia Limited’s formaldehyde resins business
Introduction
1. On 6 December 2006, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission
(the ACCC) announced its decision to not oppose the proposed acquisition of
Orica Australia Limited’s formaldehyde resins business by Hexion Specialty
Chemicals Pty Ltd (Proposed Acquisition). The ACCC decided that the
Proposed Acquisition would not have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of
substantially lessening competition in contravention of section 50 of the Trade
Practices Act 1974 (the Act) in the relevant regional market (including eastern
South Australia, Victoria and extending to central New South Wales) for the
manufacture and supply of amino resins, or in the national market for the
manufacture and supply of phenolic resins.
2. The ACCC made its decision on the basis of the information provided by the
merger parties and information arising from its market inquiries. This Public
Competition Assessment outlines the basis on which the ACCC has reached its
decision on the proposed transaction, subject to confidentiality considerations.
Public Competition Assessment
3. To provide an enhanced level of transparency and procedural fairness in its
decision making process, the ACCC issues a Public Competition Assessment for
all transaction proposals where:
a merger is rejected;
a merger is subject to enforceable undertakings;
the merger parties seek such disclosure; or
a merger is approved but raises important issues that the ACCC considers
should be made public.
4. In this case, the ACCC considers the merger raises important issues, given the
high level of market concentration in each of the relevant markets for the
manufacture and supply of amino and phenolic resins.
5. By issuing Public Competition Assessments, the ACCC aims to provide the
market with a better understanding of the ACCC's analysis of various markets and


2
the associated merger and competition issues. It also alerts the market to the
circumstances where the ACCC’s assessment of the competition conditions in
particular markets is changing, or likely to change, because of developments.
6. Each Public Competition Assessment is specific to the particular transaction under
review by the ACCC. While some transaction proposals may involve the same or
related markets, it should not be assumed that the analysis and decision outlined in
one Public Competition Assessment will be conclusive of the ACCC’s view in
respect of other transaction proposals, as each matter will be considered on its
own merits.
7. Many of the ACCC’s decisions will involve consideration of both
non-confidential and confidential information provided by the merger parties and
market participants. In order to maintain the confidentiality of particular
information, Public Competition Assessments do not contain any confidential
information or its sources. While the ACCC aims to provide an appropriately
detailed explanation of the basis for the ACCC decision, where this is not
possible, maintaining confidentiality will be the ACCC's paramount concern.
Accordingly, a Public Competition Assessment may not definitively explain all
issues and the ACCC’s analysis of such issues.
The parties
The acquirer: Hexion Specialty Chemicals Pty Ltd (Hexion)
8. Hexion is headquartered in Ohio, USA and has significant experience in the
production of formaldehyde based resins. In Australia, Hexion manufactures
amino and phenolic resin from production plants in Laverton, Victoria and
Brisbane, Queensland. The resins are primarily used in the manufacture of wood
based products (eg particle board, MDF, plywood) and to a lesser degree in the
production of foundry and glass fibre insulation.
The target: Orica Australia Limited’s (Orica) formaldehyde resins business
9. Orica is a publicly listed company on the Australian Stock Exchange. In
Australia, Orica’s formaldehyde resins business manufactures amino and phenolic
resin from manufacturing facilities located at Deer Park in Victoria. Orica
manufactures and supplies amino and phenolic resin products to the wood panels,
timber, foundry and fibre insulation industries.
Market background
10. Formaldehyde resins come in a variety of forms to suit different applications.
Broadly these different varieties of resin can be placed into one of two groups:
Amino resins – which includes urea formaldehyde (UF); melamine urea
formaldehyde (MUF) and melamine formaldehyde (MF); and
Phenolic resins – which includes phenol melamine urea formaldehyde
(PMUF*) and phenol formaldehyde (PF/PRF).
*PMUF is a hybrid amino/phenolic resin product.


3
11. Resins are adhesive agents that have a variety of applications, particularly in the
wood based products industry and the foundry and fibreglass industries.
12. In Australia, Hexion and Orica manufacture and supply both amino and phenolic
resins to customers who are typically manufacturers of wood based products such
as particleboard, paper laminates, plywood, laminated veneer lumber, engineered
lumber and structural beams. The supply of resin typically involves the provision
of additional on-site or local after sales services and technical support to
customers to ensure compatibility of the resin to raw wood materials which can
vary by region and by season.
13. The diagram below illustrates the end uses of amino and phenolic resins.
14. In Australia, Hexion and Orica are the only manufacturers of phenolic resins.
There are also limited volumes of imported phenolic resins.
15. Hexion and Orica also manufacture amino resins. Amino resins are also
manufactured in Australia by other independent manufacturers of amino resin -
Woodchem (Oberon, central New South Wales) and Dynea (Dardanup, Western
Australia).


4
Timing
16. The following table outlines the timeline of key events in this matter.
Date
Event
1st September
2006
ACCC commenced review under the Merger Review Process Guidelines. Market
inquiries commenced.
15th
September
2006
Closing date for submissions from interested parties.
6th October
2006
Having regard to the submissions received, the proposed date for ACCC findings was
revised from 13 October to 18 October.
10th October
2006
Proposed announcement delayed until 25 October (delay requested by Hexion to allow
for provision of additional information).
18th October
2006
Proposed announcement delayed to allow for further inquiries.
1st November
2006
ACCC published a Statement of Issues outlining preliminary competition concerns.
Proposed date for announcement of ACCC findings delayed to allow for market
consultation on the ACCC's Statement of Issues.
15th November
2006
Closing date for submissions from interested parties.
6th December
2006
ACCC decided not to oppose the proposed acquisition.
Market inquiries
17. The ACCC conducted market inquiries with a range of industry participants,
including competitors, customers, relevant industry associations, other regulatory
agencies and other interested parties.
Statement of Issues
18. On 1 November 2006, the ACCC published a Statement of Issues (SOI). In the
SOI, the ACCC sought information and comment on a number of issues important
to its assessment of the competition effects (if any) of the Proposed Acquisition.
A number of these issues are set out below.
The degree to which amino resin manufacturers in central New South Wales
or other regions would be able to constrain the merged entity in the market for
the manufacture and supply of amino resins.
The likelihood and ability of large buyers of resins to sponsor entry into the
manufacture of amino and/or phenolic resins. The ACCC sought information
on the minimum level of demand required to justify new entry, the level of
demand in relevant geographic regions, the availability of candidates for
sponsorship etc.
The likelihood that independent manufacturers of amino resins could expand
into the manufacture of phenolic resins. The ACCC sought further
information on how quickly such expansions could occur, the costs involved


5
and the circumstances under which independent manufacturers of amino resins
would consider such an expansion.
The likely competitive constraint on the merged entity from imports of
phenolic resin, taking into account price competitiveness, shelf life and
logistical issues.
Constraints posed by competition in downstream markets. The ACCC sought
information on the extent to which international competition faced by
domestic producers of wood-based products (consumers of formaldehyde
resins) would constrain the prices of amino and/or phenolic resins charged by
the merged entity.
Market One: manufacture and supply of amino resins
Market definition
19. The ACCC considered amino resins and phenolic resins are currently supplied in
separate product markets. This was based on the limited ability of major users of
these resins to substitute from one to the other.
20. The ACCC’s inquiries revealed that the relevant geographic market for amino
resins was likely to be regional and to comprise eastern South Australia, Victoria,
and extend to central New South Wales. The ACCC considered the viability of
amino resin supply from central New South Wales to customers located in eastern
South Australia taking into account factors such as price, freight costs and
capacity. The ACCC considered that the supply or potential supply of amino
resins from central New South Wales to eastern South Australia would be likely to
constrain the merged entity. However more distant supply or potential supply
would be unlikely to constrain the merged entity. The ACCC therefore considered
that the geographic market for amino resins was likely to be regional and include
eastern South Australia, Victoria and extend to central New South Wales.
Competition analysis
Market concentration
21. The ACCC found that the proposed acquisition would result in increased
concentration in the regional market for amino resins with the number of players
reduced from three to two.
22. However, the ACCC considered that Woodchem (located in Oberon, New South
Wales) would remain as a competitive constraint on the merged entity. The ACCC
considered that the potential for customers of Hexion or Orica to switch to
Woodchem if the merged firm raised prices, including via additional transport
costs from New South Wales to customers in South Australia, would be a viable
constraint on the pricing of the merged entity. Further confidential information
supported the ACCC’s view in this regard.
Bargaining power
23. Information before the ACCC also revealed that customers in the relevant region
would be likely to continue to possess a degree of bargaining power post
acquisition. Among other things, the ACCC took into account the size of some
amino resin customers taking into account their resin demand both within and
outside the relevant geographic region.


6
Likelihood of sponsored entry
24. The ACCC’s inquiries revealed some barriers to sponsored entry in the amino
resins market in the relevant geographic region. These include the significant
capital costs of plant establishment and the lack of demand to enable a new entrant
to operate at an efficient scale of production.
Conclusion – Market One
25. The ACCC did not attach significant weight to any competitive constraint on the
merged entity arising from the possibility of sponsored entry in the relevant
region. However, the ACCC considered that the Proposed Acquisition would be
unlikely to result in a substantial lessening of competition in this market on the
basis of, among other things, the competitive constraint on the merged entity
posed by Woodchem and the bargaining power of some customers.
Market Two: manufacture and supply of phenolic resins
Market definition
26. The ACCC considered the impact of the Proposed Acquisition on competition in a
national market for the manufacture and supply of phenolic resins.
Competition analysis
Market concentration
27. The ACCC found that the Proposed Acquisition would result in the merged entity
being the only manufacturer and supplier of phenolic resins in Australia.
28. However, as discussed below, the ACCC’s inquiries revealed that barriers to
expansion into phenolic resin manufacture by existing amino resin manufacturers
appeared to be relatively low.
Barriers to expansion into phenolic resin manufacture
29. Information before the ACCC indicated that independent manufacturers of amino
resins could expand into the manufacture of phenolic resins within relatively short
timeframes with relatively low capital investment. The ACCC’s inquiries also
revealed that there appears to be sufficient levels of phenolic resin demand in
Australia to justify expansion by existing amino resin manufacturers should
customers wish to switch their source of phenolic resin supply.
30. The ACCC further noted the existence of two amino resin manufacturers in
Australia, other than the merged entity, who could potentially expand into
phenolic resin manufacture.
31. The ACCC considered that the threat of expansion by existing amino resin
manufacturers was likely to be a competitive constraint on the merged entity.
Import competition
32. Information before the ACCC indicated that while there are imports of some
phenolic resin into Australia, imports of the type of phenolic resin suitable for use
in the wood products industry (particularly PF resin) have been limited.
33. The ACCC’s inquiries revealed a number of impediments to the importation of
phenolic resin suitable for use in the wood products industry including shelf life,
logistics and price competitiveness taking into account transport costs or possible
need for specialised shipping containers.


7
34. While imports of phenolic resin suitable for use in the wood products industry
appeared to be technically feasible, the constraint on the merged entity posed by
the threat of customers switching to imports was likely to be limited.
Competition in downstream markets
35. The ACCC’s inquiries revealed that the indirect constraint on the merged entity
from competition in downstream markets was unlikely to be significant.
Information before the ACCC revealed that imports constitute approximately 50%
of the plywood used in Australia. An argument put to the ACCC was that the
merged entity supplies resins to domestic plywood producers, and an increase in
the price of resins would make domestic producers of plywood less competitive;
to the extent domestic producers of plywood lose customers to imported plywood,
the merged entity may suffer consequently and this would be a constraint.
However, on close examination, as phenolic resin represents a small proportion of
the cost of producing plywood, in the ACCC’s view the indirect constraint on the
merged entity from imports of plywood was likely to be weak.
Conclusion – Market Two
36. The ACCC did not attach significant weight to any competitive constraint arising
from import competition or competition in downstream markets. However, the
ACCC considered that the Proposed Acquisition would be unlikely to result in a
substantial lessening of competition in this market on the basis of, among other
things, the competitive constraint on the merged entity posed by relatively low
barriers to expansion into phenolic resin manufacture faced by existing
independent manufacturers of amino resin.
Conclusion
37. On the basis of the above, and other factors that were unable to be referred to in
this Public Competition Assessment due to the confidential nature of that
information, the ACCC considered that the Proposed Acquisition would be
unlikely to result in a substantial lessening of competition in the regional market
(including eastern South Australia, Victoria and extending to central New South
Wales) for the manufacture and supply of amino resins and the national market for
the manufacture and supply of phenolic resins.
