Page 1 of 15 
 
Public Competition Assessment 
28 November 2013 
Baxter International Inc. – proposed acquisition of Gambro 
AB 
Introduction 
1. 
On 4 September 2013, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission 
(ACCC) announced its decision not to oppose the proposed acquisition of 
Gambro AB (Gambro) by Baxter International Inc. (Baxter) (the proposed 
acquisition), subject to a court enforceable undertaking (the undertaking) 
pursuant to section 87B of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the Act). 
2. 
The ACCC decided that, with the undertaking, the proposed acquisition would be 
unlikely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in any market in 
contravention of section 50 of the Act. 
3. 
The ACCC made its decision on the basis of the information provided by the 
parties to the acquisition (the parties) and information arising from its market 
inquiries. This Public Competition Assessment outlines (subject to confidentiality 
considerations) the basis on which the ACCC has reached its decision on the 
proposed acquisition. 
Public Competition Assessment 
4. 
To provide an enhanced level of transparency and procedural fairness in its 
decision making process, the ACCC issues a Public Competition Assessment for 
all transaction proposals where: 
 a proposed acquisition is opposed; 
 a proposed acquisition is subject to enforceable undertakings; 
 the parties seek such disclosure; and 
 a proposed acquisition is not opposed but raises important issues that the 
ACCC considers should be made public. 
5. 
This Public Competition Assessment has been issued because Baxter’s 
proposed acquisition of Gambro is subject to a court enforceable undertaking. 


 
Page 2 of 15 
6. 
By issuing Public Competition Assessments, the ACCC aims to provide the 
public with a better understanding of the ACCC's analysis of various markets and 
the associated merger and competition issues. 
7. 
Each Public Competition Assessment is specific to the particular transaction 
under review by the ACCC. While some transaction proposals may involve the 
same or related markets, it should not be assumed that the analysis and 
decision outlined in one Public Competition Assessment will be conclusive of the 
ACCC’s view in respect of other transaction proposals, as each matter will be 
considered on its own merits. 
8. 
Public Competition Assessments outline the ACCC’s principal reasons for 
forming views on a proposed acquisition at the time the decision was made. As 
such, Public Competition Assessments may not definitively identify and explain 
all issues that the ACCC considers arise from a proposed acquisition. Further, 
the ACCC’s decisions generally involve consideration of both non-confidential 
and confidential information provided by the merger parties and market 
participants. In order to maintain the confidentiality of particular information, 
Public Competition Assessments do not contain any confidential information or 
its sources. 
The parties 
The acquirer: Baxter 
9. 
Baxter is a global medical products and services company, incorporated in the 
United States of America and listed on the New York Stock Exchange and SIX 
Swiss Stock Exchange. Through its subsidiaries, Baxter develops, manufactures 
and markets products that treat people with haemophilia, immune disorders, 
infectious diseases, kidney disease, trauma, and other chronic and acute 
medical conditions. 
10. In Australia, Baxter’s operations include the supply of dialysis products and 
technologies used in Continuous Renal Replacement Therapy (CRRT), 
Haemodialysis (HD) and Peritoneal Dialysis (PD). Baxter supplies its own 
Aquarius brand of CRRT monitors, but these are manufactured on its behalf by 
Nikkiso Co. Ltd (Nikkiso). Conversely, Baxter is the distributor of Nikkiso 
manufactured and branded HD monitors. 
11. Baxter’s Australian operations comprise a fluid manufacturing plant in 
Toongabbie, Western Sydney, distribution, and warehousing depots in New 
South Wales, Queensland, Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia and 
Tasmania. Baxter manufactures fluids for intravenous administration and dialysis 
fluids. 
The target: Gambro 
12. Gambro, based in Lund, Sweden, is a global provider of dialysis products and 
technologies used in HD and CRRT. Its portfolio of HD and CRRT devices 
includes monitors, dialysers, bloodlines, cyclers and dialysis fluids. 
13. Gambro distributes these products (which it manufactures overseas) in Australia 
through offices located in Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth. Gambro does 
not have any Australian manufacturing facilities. 


 
Page 3 of 15 
Industry Background 
Renal Replacement Therapy 
14. Renal Replacement Therapy (RRT) performs the key functions of healthy 
kidneys where a patient suffers kidney deterioration or failure. Kidney failure can 
be the result of: 
 Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD) - which usually occurs gradually over time and 
results in permanent kidney failure; or 
  Acute Kidney Injury (AKI) - a rapid loss of kidney function occurring suddenly 
and is potentially reversible. 
15. In either form of failure, the filtering of the blood by the kidneys is either slowed 
or stopped, causing waste products and other toxic substances to build up in the 
blood. All forms of RRT, whether for AKI or CKD patients, pursue the same 
objective which is to remove waste substances from the blood and to correct 
fluid abnormalities associated with renal failure. 
16. Baxter and Gambro overlapped in the supply of CRRT and HD. CRRT and HD 
are both forms of RRT, with CRRT being used to treat patients suffering from 
AKI and HD being used to treat patients with CKD. 
Tender processes 
17. RRT products are not purchased directly by patients. Customers of RRT 
products comprise state government organisations, public hospitals and private 
clinics. For HD and PD, tenders are generally structured on a price per treatment 
(PPT) basis where suppliers (such as Baxter and Gambro) will loan the relevant 
machine to the customer (normally for periods of 5-7 years), with the customer 
paying a price for each treatment (which includes consumables and takes into 
account the capital cost of the machine). For CRRT, the ACCC identified that it 
was common for customers to purchase CRRT machines outright and then 
contract for the supply of components separately. 
Other industry participants 
Nikkiso 
18. Nikkiso is headquartered in Tokyo, Japan. Its medical division engages in the 
manufacture and sale of HD and CRRT products. Baxter currently distributes the 
Nikkiso HD machine fleet within Australia. Nikkiso also manufactures the 
Aquarius CRRT machine for Baxter, which Baxter supplies globally including in 
Australia. 
Fresenius 
19. Fresenius SE & Co. KGaA (Fresenius) is a vertically integrated, publicly listed 
German company. Fresenius is the world’s largest provider of products and 
services for individuals undergoing dialysis due to CKD. Fresenius has been 
active in Australia since 1996 when it set up headquarters for the South East 
Asian region in Sydney and began offering HD and PD products. Fresenius does 
not currently supply CRRT products in Australia. 


 
Page 4 of 15 
TekMed 
20. TekMed Pty Ltd (TekMed) distributes a CRRT monitor in Australia and New 
Zealand which is imported from the Swiss manufacturer, Infomed SA. 
Nipro 
21. The Nipro Group (Nipro) is headquartered in Osaka, Japan and mainly engages 
in the manufacture, development and sale of dialysis related products. Baxter 
distributes some of Nipro’s dialysis products in Australia. Nipro also sells its own 
dialysers and other HD products in Australia through the Regional Medical 
Group and Sutherland Medical Pty Ltd. 
NxStage Medical 
22. Headquartered in Massachusetts, NxStage Medical Inc.’s (NxStage) primary 
product, the NxStage System One is a smaller, portable form of a traditional HD 
machine, designed to be used in a variety of settings, including patient homes, 
as well as more traditional care settings such as hospitals and dialysis clinics. 
NxStage’s System One has been distributed in Australia and New Zealand 
through the Regional Health Care Group since 2011. 
Regional Health Care Group  
23. Regional Health Care Group is a privately owned Australian group in the 
healthcare, research and development sector. Relevantly, it sources and 
distributes renal treatment products (including HD treatment products) across 
Australia to hospitals and patients’ homes.  
B Braun 
24. B. Braun Melsungen AG (B Braun) is a multinational health organisation based 
in Germany. B Braun’s renal division Avitium AG offers a full line of kidney 
dialysis offerings. The division focuses on treatment systems for AKI, HD as well 
as therapeutic aphaeresis. At the time of the review, B Braun was in the process 
of commencing the supply of HD products in Australia. It does not supply CRRT 
products in Australia. 
The proposed transaction 
25. Baxter proposed to acquire Gambro for a total consideration of 26.5 billion 
Swedish Kronor (approximately $A 4.0 billion at exchange rates at the time). On 
20 February 2013, Baxter made a submission to the ACCC seeking clearance of 
the proposed acquisition in Australia. 
International liaison 
26. Throughout the course of the review, the ACCC liaised closely with the 
European Commission (EC) and the New Zealand Competition Commission 
(NZCC). All three authorities shared information and documents according to 
confidentiality waivers provided by the merger parties. 


 
Page 5 of 15 
Review timeline 
27. The following table outlines the timeline of key events in this matter. 
 
Date 
Event 
4 March 2013 
ACCC commenced review under the Merger Review Process 
Guidelines. 
22 March 2013 
Closing date for submissions from interested parties. 
22 March 2013 
ACCC requested further information from the merger parties. 
ACCC timeline suspended. Former proposed decision date of 26 
April 2013 delayed to allow provision of requested information. 
8 April 2013 
ACCC received further information from the merger parties. 
ACCC timeline recommenced. 
18 April 2013 
ACCC timeline suspended and former proposed decision date of 
26 April 2013 delayed to allow the merger parties to provide 
additional information. 
26 April 2013 
ACCC received further information from the merger parties. 
ACCC timeline recommenced. 
3 May 2013 
ACCC timeline suspended until after the parties have had further 
discussions with overseas regulators. 
5 July 2013 
ACCC commenced market inquiries in relation to draft s87B 
divestiture undertaking offered by Baxter. ACCC timeline 
recommenced. 
11 July 2013 
Closing date for submissions from interested parties. 
24 July 2013 
Before deciding whether to accept Baxter's proposed 
undertaking, the ACCC wanted to be certain of the identity of the 
purchaser of the global divestiture business approved by the 
European Commission (EC) in accordance with the EC's decision 
on the proposed acquisition and related Commitments which took 
effect on 22 July 2013. The ACCC delayed its decision on 
whether to accept the proposed undertaking pending the EC's 
expected decision of an approved purchaser. ACCC timeline 
suspended. 
3 September 2013 
EC approved purchaser of the global divestiture business. ACCC 
timeline recommenced. 
4 September 2013 
ACCC announced it would not oppose the proposed acquisition, 
subject to section 87B undertaking accepted by ACCC. 
 


 
Page 6 of 15 
Market inquiries 
28. The ACCC conducted market inquiries with a range of industry participants, 
including competitors in the supply of RRT treatment products and customers of 
these products (including hospitals, dialysis clinics and state health authorities). 
Competition test 
29. Section 50 of the Act prohibits mergers or acquisitions that would have the effect 
or be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
In assessing a proposed acquisition pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC 
considers the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future competitive 
environment post-acquisition if the acquisition proceeds (the “with” position) to 
the likely future competitive environment if the acquisition does not proceed (the 
“without” position) to determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in any relevant market. 
30. In the absence of the proposed acquisition, the ACCC considered that the likely 
future competitive environment would be the status quo, that is, both Baxter and 
Gambro would continue to operate as independent, viable and effective 
competitors in the relevant markets.  
Areas of concern 
31. Baxter and Gambro overlapped in the supply of both CRRT and HD products. 
The ACCC’s investigation focussed on whether the merged firm would be able 
to: 
 unilaterally increase prices or decrease service in the supply of: 
o 
CRRT treatment products; or 
o 
HD treatment products; or 
 reduce research and development in RRT on a global level.  
32. Due to Baxter’s strong market position in the supply of PD, the ACCC also 
considered whether the merged firm would have the ability and incentive to 
foreclose actual and potential rivals, or raise barriers to entry in the relevant 
markets, through a bundling or tying strategy. 
Market definition 
Continuous Renal Replacement Therapy 
33. CRRT is used to treat patients suffering from AKI. Treatment occurs in an 
intensive care hospital setting and is administered constantly for up to a week. 
An alternative form of treatment to CRRT for AKI is sustained/slow extended 
daily dialysis (SLEDD). However, the ACCC’s market inquiries indicated that 
customers do not substitute between CRRT and SLEDD based on changes in 
prices and service. Rather, decisions on the treatment are based on clinical 
preferences and the condition of the patient. Accordingly, for the purpose of 


 
Page 7 of 15 
assessing the likely competition effects of the proposed acquisition, there is no 
substitute for customers purchasing CRRT treatment products. 
34. Baxter submitted that it is not appropriate to treat the individual components of 
CRRT as separate markets. However, the ACCC considered, based on 
information provided by market inquiries and data provided by the parties, that in 
CRRT the appropriate product markets were likely to be narrower than submitted 
by the parties. In particular, the ACCC considered that there appeared to be 
distinct product markets for some of the components and monitors utilised in 
CRRT treatment.  
35. The ACCC identified that it was common for customers to purchase CRRT 
monitors outright and then contract for the supply of components (e.g. catheters, 
concentrates) separately. While some customers contracted with one supplier for 
all CRRT treatment products, other customers utilised different suppliers for 
components that did not need to be technically compatible with the respective 
monitors. In particular, the ACCC’s market inquiries indicated that there may be 
separate product markets for the supply of CRRT concentrates and 
tubing/catheters. 
36. The ACCC did not consider that it was necessary to reach a definitive view on 
the appropriate product market definitions. As explored further below, regardless 
of the market definition adopted, the ACCC considered that, in the absence of a 
remedy, the proposed acquisition would be likely to raise significant competition 
concerns in relation to the broader market for the supply of CRRT treatment 
products as well as in distinct product markets. 
Haemodialysis 
37. HD is used to treat patients suffering from CKD. Treatment occurs in a patient’s 
home or, more commonly, in a clinic or hospital environment. HD generally 
occurs three times per week for 8 hours a time and treatment may continue for a 
number of years while the patient awaits a kidney transplant. An alternative 
treatment option for CKD is PD. PD can generally only be administered for two to 
three years, due to the breakdown of the peritoneum lining, before a patient must 
transfer to HD. The ACCC’s market inquiries indicated that there was no 
substitution between HD and PD based on price or service with the decision on 
treatment based on clinical preference and the patient’s condition.  
38. As with CRRT, Baxter submitted that it is not appropriate to treat the individual 
components of HD as separate markets. The ACCC’s market inquiries identified 
that, unlike CRRT, in HD customers generally obtained supply of products under 
PPT arrangements where all the necessary components for the treatment were 
bundled and provided as a single price and the monitor’s cost was in effect 
amortised over the term of the multi-year supply arrangement. 
39. While the ACCC’s market inquiries indicated that in some instances customers 
obtained supply for some components separately, this was not commonplace 
and the ACCC considered that an HD supplier needed to offer the complete 
range of HD treatment products on a PPT basis in order to compete effectively.  
40. The ACCC also considered whether there was a separate market for Home HD. 
Home HD is where the patient self-administers HD treatment within their own 
home, rather than travelling to a clinic or hospital. Based on the information 


 
Page 8 of 15 
before it, the ACCC did not consider that there was a separate market for Home 
HD given the fact that, in most cases, a standard HD monitor required minimal 
customisation in order to be suitable for use by a patient in their home. Further, 
the ACCC’s market inquiries indicated that customers did not generally 
differentiate Home HD in contracting or tendering arrangements. 
41. The ACCC concluded that a broad HD treatment product market was 
appropriate. However, the ACCC considered that even if it were to adopt narrow 
component or Home HD markets, this would not have altered the outcome of the 
competition analysis below. 
Peritoneal dialysis 
42. Although Gambro had no presence in the supply of PD, the ACCC considered 
that the supply of PD was relevant to its consideration of whether the proposed 
acquisition would raise conglomerate merger concerns. 
43. PD is used to clean the blood without removing it from the body. Dialysate, made 
up mostly of salts, water and glucose is injected into the peritoneal space in the 
abdomen through a two way catheter. The membrane that lines the abdomen 
(the peritoneum) acts as a natural filter, allowing waste and fluid to pass from the 
blood into the dialysate, which is then pumped out of the abdomen.  
44. Although PD and HD are both used to treat patients suffering from CKD, the 
ACCC’s investigation did not find evidence of substitution between the two 
based on price or service. For the same reasons as HD, the ACCC concluded 
that the relevant market is likely to be the broad PD treatment market comprising 
all the necessary components. 
Geographic dimension – CRRT, HD and PD 
45. The ACCC concluded that the appropriate geographic scope of the relevant 
markets was national. 
46. Almost all of the key equipment and components in HD, CRRT and PD treatment 
distributed in Australia are manufactured overseas. While these products are all 
imported, the ACCC did not consider that it represented a global market. The 
ACCC’s inquiries identified that pricing is not based on any global benchmarks, 
the nature of supply arrangements between customers and suppliers is 
fundamentally different between jurisdictions, and that regulatory approval is a 
barrier to entry into the Australian market.  
47. The ACCC’s market inquiries identified that suppliers generally distributed 
products nationwide. The ACCC’s market inquiries indicated that all major 
suppliers competed for contracts or supply arrangements on a nationwide basis 
and the ACCC did not identify any evidence to suggest pricing differed markedly 
between states.  
RRT Innovation Market 
48. Both Baxter and Gambro overlapped in global RRT research and development. 
The ACCC, although recognising that research in RRT is intricately linked to 
future competition in the separate HD, CRRT and PD markets, also considered 
whether there was a standalone innovation market. The ACCC’s market inquiries 


 
Page 9 of 15 
identified that, at a global level, research may be undertaken on a broad 
technology which has the potential to result in innovations across numerous and 
future product markets.  
49. As a consequence, the ACCC considered that it was appropriate to consider the 
impact of the proposed acquisition on the global market for RRT innovation.  
Conclusion – relevant markets 
50. The ACCC’s assessment of the proposed acquisition was conducted in relation 
to the following markets: 
 the national market for supply of CRRT treatment products as either a: 
o broad system based market for CRRT treatment products; or 
o individual CRRT component markets (e.g. catheters, fluids); 
 the national market for supply of HD treatment products;  
 the national market for supply of PD treatment products; and 
 the global market for RRT innovation.  
Competition Assessment 
Supply of CRRT treatment products 
51. The ACCC considered that, in relation to the supply of CRRT treatment 
products, in the absence of a suitable divestiture remedy the proposed 
acquisition would remove Baxter’s major competitor and result in a near-
monopoly in Australia irrespective of the precise market definition. The only other 
supplier of CRRT products in Australia is TekMed which does not have a 
complete product offering and has a much smaller market share. 
52. The ACCC did not issue a Statement of Issues during its investigation, due to 
the fact that: 
 the ACCC’s initial market inquiries provided strong evidence on which the 
ACCC was able to form a view as to the likely competitive effects of the 
proposed acquisition; and 
 following initial market inquiries and receipt of a proposed undertaking from 
Baxter that was in a suitable format for consultation, the ACCC proceeded to 
initiate market consultation on the suitability of the remedy proposed by 
Baxter. 
Closeness of competition and availability of substitutes 
53. The ACCC’s investigation identified that Baxter and Gambro were each other’s 
closest competitors in the supply of CRRT treatment products in Australia. 
Notwithstanding a recent temporary withdrawal of Baxter’s Aquarius machine, 
the ACCC’s market inquiries indicated that most customers of CRRT treatment 


 
Page 10 of 15 
products considered that Baxter and Gambro were the only two viable options 
for the supply of these products.  
54. The ACCC also considered the impact of TekMed, an alternative supplier of 
CRRT monitors and some ancillaries. The ACCC’s market inquiries identified 
that TekMed had a small market presence, a slightly differentiated CRRT 
monitor, and did not currently offer CRRT fluids. Therefore, the ACCC 
considered that the merged firm’s pricing and service would not be sufficiently 
constrained by TekMed in the foreseeable future. 
Barriers to entry or expansion 
55. The ACCC’s investigation identified that barriers to entry for the supply of CRRT 
treatment products are very high. Information provided through the ACCC’s 
market inquiries revealed that the barriers would be significant for any new 
entrant, whether this was an overseas supplier establishing supply operations in 
Australia, a supplier already present in other RRT markets in Australia, or an 
Australian distributor seeking to import CRRT treatment products. 
56. Industry feedback identified that reputation or brand recognition amongst 
customers was a significant impediment to successful entry. Market participants 
indicated that there was general industry reluctance to adopt new products that 
had not demonstrated clinical acceptance in Australia. Furthermore, the ACCC 
identified that there appeared to be significant sunk costs, for example in the 
form of free trials and promotions, in establishing the necessary reputation to 
compete effectively in Australia. 
57. Further, the ACCC’s market inquiries indicated that there appeared to be 
significant switching costs involved in hospitals changing to a new supplier of 
CRRT products, especially if it would involve using multiple suppliers’ CRRT 
monitors in the same dialysis location. Hospitals may be reluctant to acquire a 
CRRT monitor from a new supplier as it would increase the cost and complexity 
of procurement and require training of staff to use a different CRRT monitor to 
those of the merger parties. 
58. In addition, the ACCC considered that other barriers appeared to exist due to the 
significant timeframes and costs associated with obtaining regulatory approval 
for new CRRT treatment products to be supplied in Australia. Further, new 
entrants would need to establish the necessary distribution, support/service and 
training infrastructure to compete effectively against the merged firm. The 
ACCC’s market inquiries indicated there would be significant sunk costs in 
establishing these functions. 
59. For these reasons, the ACCC concluded that the threat of new entry or 
expansion would be unlikely to constrain the merged firm in the foreseeable 
future. 
Countervailing Power 
60. The ACCC did not consider that customers of CRRT treatment products were 
able to exercise countervailing power to constrain the merged firm. Although the 
ACCC recognised that customers were often very large public health authorities 
which purchased significant volumes, these authorities were involved in such a 
broad range of purchases that it would be impractical for them to sponsor new 


 
Page 11 of 15 
entry. Additionally, as discussed above, the ACCC’s investigation identified that 
there were very high barriers to entry and market inquiries indicated that it is 
impractical for a customer to bypass, or threaten to bypass the merger parties by 
producing or importing their own products. Market inquiries did not identify that 
customers of CRRT considered they had any countervailing power. 
61. The ACCC’s market inquiries indicated that the margins derived from the sale of 
CRRT fluids in Australia are likely to be considerably higher than those in 
Europe. The ACCC considered that it was reasonable to assume that, if 
customers had countervailing power, they would have exercised it previously in 
an attempt to reduce the cost of CRRT fluids. However, to date customers had 
not attempted to bypass Baxter and Gambro by importing their own CRRT fluids 
or sponsoring new entry. 
Conclusion – supply of CRRT treatment products 
62. The ACCC concluded that, absent an undertaking, the proposed acquisition 
would result in the amalgamation of the only two major suppliers of CRRT 
treatment products in Australia and would be likely to result in a substantial 
lessening of competition in the relevant CRRT market(s). 
Supply of HD treatment products 
63. The ACCC considered that, in the supply of HD treatment products, the 
proposed acquisition would be unlikely to substantially lessen competition.  
Closeness of competition and availability of substitutes 
64. The ACCC’s market inquiries and information provided by the merger parties 
indicated that Baxter and Gambro were not close competitors in the supply of 
HD treatment products. Information provided by the merger parties identified that 
Baxter had a minimal market share. The ACCC’s market inquiries and analysis 
of industry tender outcomes indicated that competition in HD treatment products 
in Australia is primarily driven by the two major suppliers, Gambro and 
Fresenius. 
65. The ACCC considered that, post-acquisition, Fresenius would be the main 
substitute and strongest competitive constraint on the merged firm. The ACCC 
noted that there also several smaller suppliers present in the supply of HD 
treatment products in Australia. 
Barriers to entry 
66. As above with CRRT, the ACCC’s investigation indicated that barriers to entry in 
the supply of HD treatment products are high. However, the ACCC’s 
investigation identified more opportunity for entry into the market for the supply 
of HD treatment products. The ACCC considered that this is likely due to the size 
of the HD market (revenue, number of customers and patients) being much 
larger than for CRRT. Recent entrants into HD in Australia included NxStage 
(through the distributor Regional Health Care Group) and Nipro, and B Braun’s 
entry was imminent. Therefore, the ACCC considered that the threat of new 
entry would be likely to place some constraint on the merged firm. 
 


 
Page 12 of 15 
Conclusion – supply of HD treatment products 
67. The ACCC concluded that the proposed acquisition was unlikely to result in a 
substantial lessening of competition in the market for the supply of HD treatment 
products. The ACCC considered that the proposed acquisition resulted in a 
minimal increase in market concentration, and Fresenius, with a significant 
market share, represented a strong alternative supplier to the merged firm. 
Conglomerate effects between supply of PD and HD products 
68. The ACCC concluded that the proposed acquisition would be unlikely to result in 
Baxter having an increased ability and incentive to anti-competitively foreclose 
actual and potential rivals, or raise barriers to entry in the relevant markets, 
through a bundling or tying strategy. Specifically, the ACCC concluded that the 
acquisition appeared unlikely to result in the merged firm having a greater ability 
or incentive to leverage Baxter’s existing strong market position in the supply of 
PD products into the supply of HD products, and that any such attempted 
foreclosure would be unlikely to be anti-competitive. The main factors informing 
this conclusion were: 
 
the ACCC’s market inquiries identified that in nearly all cases, customers did 
not source PD and HD products as a bundle and customers considered that 
they had the ability to disaggregate their purchases of PD and HD products 
between different suppliers. The merged firm would not be a supplier of any 
‘must have’ product which it could bundle or tie with other products to the 
exclusion of rival suppliers; 
 
the ACCC’s market inquiries indicated that Fresenius would remain the 
market leader in supply of HD products post acquisition, and had the ability 
to offer a comparable bundle as it already supplied both HD and PD 
products; and 
 
Baxter already had the ability, without the proposed acquisition, to offer a 
bundle of HD and PD products. 
Global RRT Innovation  
69. The ACCC considered that the proposed acquisition was unlikely to result in a 
substantial lessening of competition in the RRT innovation market (or in any 
narrower innovation market). The main factors which informed the ACCC’s 
conclusion were: 
 the ACCC’s market inquiries indicated that several major international 
competitors would continue to be significant contributors to RRT research and 
development, including RRT manufacturers such as Bellco, Nipro, Asahi and 
Nikkiso; and 
 information provided by the parties indicated that Baxter was a marginal RRT 
R&D party (both in spend and product development) and relied in both CRRT 
and HD markets on distributing products developed and manufactured by 
third parties. 


 
Page 13 of 15 
Conclusion – competition assessment 
70. For the reasons outlined above, the ACCC concluded that the proposed 
acquisition, absent a remedy, appeared likely to result in a substantial lessening 
of competition in the supply of CRRT treatment products. The ACCC concluded 
that the proposed acquisition was unlikely to result in a substantial lessening of 
competition in any other relevant market. 
71. In order to remedy potential competition concerns in Europe, New Zealand and 
Australia, Baxter proposed to divest its existing global CRRT operations. Baxter 
offered the ACCC a court enforceable undertaking, pursuant to section 87B of 
the Act, to commit to this divestiture in Australia. 
Undertaking 
72. The ACCC investigated whether the court enforceable undertaking proposed by 
Baxter would address the competition concerns identified by the ACCC in the 
supply of CRRT treatment products. 
73. The proposed undertaking in effect required Baxter to comply with commitments 
made to the EC to divest its global CRRT business (EC commitments) and 
required Baxter to obtain the ACCC’s approval of the proposed purchaser in 
Australia. The EC commitments would result in a transfer to an ACCC approved 
purchaser of the majority of Baxter’s Australian CRRT business, including the 
transfer of personnel. 
74. On 22 July 2013, the EC cleared the proposed acquisition, which included 
accepting the commitment package offered by Baxter. The EC’s clearance was 
conditional on the EC subsequently approving the proposed purchaser of the 
divestiture business and the associated transaction documents. The ACCC held 
off making its decision on the proposed acquisition and undertaking until the EC 
had approved the purchaser of the divestiture business. On 2 September 2013 
the EC approved Nikkiso as the purchaser of the divestiture business. 
75. The global divestiture package comprised CRRT tangible assets, intellectual 
property assets, transfer of or access to licences, permits and authorisations in 
relation to CRRT, and contracts and other commitments which related to 
Baxter’s CRRT supply and distribution agreements with third parties (divestiture 
business). 
76. The ACCC considered that the proposed undertaking, including the divestiture of 
the divestiture business to Nikkiso and interim ‘hold separate’ arrangements, 
would remedy the competition concerns raised by the proposed acquisition in the 
national supply of CRRT treatment products on the basis that: 
 it would address the common ownership of the Baxter and Gambro CRRT 
businesses that would otherwise exist after the proposed acquisition;  
 the broad commitment package proposed in Europe was likely to provide the 
proposed purchaser with the assets, rights and agreements necessary to 
enable the approved purchaser to compete effectively in the supply of CRRT 
treatment products in Australia;  
 it would bind Baxter in Australia to the EC Commitments; and 


 
Page 14 of 15 
 it required Baxter to only divest the divestiture business to a purchaser 
approved by the ACCC.  
Proposed Purchaser - Nikkiso 
77. The ACCC considered that Nikkiso would be able to conduct the divestiture 
business effectively in Australia and that it would maintain the divestiture 
business as a standalone, long term and independent and effective competitor in 
the supply of CRRT products in Australia.  
78. In its assessment of Nikkiso as the proposed purchaser of the divestiture 
business, the ACCC gave weight to the fact that Nikkiso was already the 
manufacturer of the Aquarius CRRT machine which Baxter distributed in 
Australia. In that regard, the ACCC noted that: 
 accepting Nikkiso as the approved purchaser eliminated the need for Baxter 
to obtain third party consent (from Nikkiso) to transfer the agreement with 
respect to the supply of the Aquarius CRRT machine to another proposed 
purchaser; and 
 while responses were mixed in the ACCC’s market inquiries, some customers 
were aware that the Aquarius machine distributed by Baxter is manufactured 
by Nikkiso. The ACCC considered that this reduced the difficulties associated 
with gaining clinical acceptance which could be an issue for other potential 
purchasers that were unknown in Australia. 
79. In addition, based on information provided by the parties and Nikkiso, the ACCC 
considered that Nikkiso had significant experience worldwide in RRT, and had 
knowledge and expertise in relation to the Aquarius monitors. Further, the ACCC 
was satisfied that Nikkiso had a commitment and intention to continue to operate 
and grow the divestiture business in Australia. 
80. The ACCC was satisfied that the scope of the divestiture package was sufficient 
to enable Nikkiso to operate the divestiture business effectively. This package 
included, in particular, the clinical sales and marketing staff who were 
responsible for managing relationships with health care providers in Australia in 
relation to Baxter’s CRRT monitors, and who would be able to provide for a 
smooth transition for Baxter’s existing CRRT customers.  
81. The ACCC also considered that Nikkiso was sufficiently independent of Baxter 
and that their HD distribution agreement was not likely to result in Nikkiso having 
a reduced incentive to compete with Baxter in the supply of CRRT monitors.  
82. Accordingly, the ACCC was satisfied that Nikkiso was a suitable purchaser of the 
divestiture business in Australia.  
Conclusion – divestiture undertaking 
83. The ACCC concluded that the undertaking offered by Baxter, with Nikkiso as the 
purchaser of the divestiture business, would remedy the competition concerns in 
CRRT which were raised by the proposed acquisition. 


 
Page 15 of 15 
Conclusion 
84. On the basis of the above, including taking into account the proposed 
undertaking, the ACCC formed the view that the proposed acquisition of Gambro 
by Baxter would not be likely to result in a substantial lessening of competition in 
any market in contravention of section 50 of the Act. 
 
