 
 
 
 
 
18 February 2010 
 
Statement of Issues — Cargill Australia Ltd - proposed 
acquisition of Goodman Fielder's commercial fats and 
oils business 
1. 
Outlined below is the Statement of Issues released by the Australian Competition 
and Consumer Commission (ACCC) in relation to the proposed acquisition of 
Goodman Fielder Limited’s (Goodman Fielder) commercial fats and oils 
business by Cargill Australia Ltd (Cargill) (proposed acquisition).  
2. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well 
as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
3. 
In line with the ACCC’s Merger Review Process Guidelines (available on the 
ACCC’s website at www.accc.gov.au) the ACCC has established a secondary 
timeline for further consideration of the issues arising in the ACCC’s 
investigation of the proposed acquisition. The ACCC anticipates completing 
further market inquiries by 4 March 2010 and anticipates making a final decision 
by 18 March 2010. However, the anticipated timeline can change in line with the 
Merger Review Process Guidelines. To keep abreast of possible changes in 
relation to timing and to find relevant documents, market participants should visit 
the Mergers Register on the ACCC's website at 
www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
4. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 
Background 
5. 
On 10 December 2009 Cargill announced that it proposed to acquire Goodman 
Fielder’s commercial edible fats and oils business.  


Cargill Australia Ltd - proposed acquisition of Goodman Fielder’s commercial fats and 
oils business 
 
2
6. 
Goodman Fielder is the largest refiner1 of edible fats and oils in Australia. 
Goodman Fielder presently supplies a full range of refined edible fats and oils, 
including margarines and blends, bakery fats and liquid oils. 
7. 
The edible fats and oils business to be acquired from Goodman Fielder includes 
four edible fats and oils refining assets located at West Footscray in Melbourne, 
Murarrie in Brisbane, Bunbury in Western Australia and East Tamaki in New 
Zealand, and other associated assets.  In addition, the parties will enter into a 
long-term supply agreement under which Cargill will supply refined edible fats 
and oils products to Goodman Fielder. 
8. 
Goodman Fielder will retain the title to the land at the Brisbane facility that is 
subject to an extended lease back to Cargill. 
9. 
The proposed acquisition is subject to a number of conditions, including approval 
from the ACCC. 
The parties 
Cargill Australia Ltd 
10. 
Cargill is an international producer and marketer of food, agricultural, financial 
and industrial products and services. Cargill has operations across these industries 
in 68 countries.  
11. 
Cargill established operations in Australia in 1967, initially to serve the country’s 
large grain export industry. It has since extended its involvement into several 
other agricultural and industrial areas. These areas include oilseed and meat 
processing, grain and oilseed storage and flour milling. 
12. 
Cargill’s involvement in the edible fats and oils industry in Australia includes: 
a. the operation of three oilseed processing facilities, which are located at 
Newcastle (NSW), Narrabri (NSW) and Footscray (VIC), which Cargill 
deploys to crush a range of oilseeds (including canola, cotton, sunflower 
and soybean) to produce crude vegetable oils. 
b. the operation of a refining facility in Newcastle, which produces a range 
of liquid oils (such as canola and sunflower) and shortenings. 
13. 
Cargill is the largest supplier of crude vegetable oils and the third largest supplier 
of refined edible fats and oils in Australia. Cargill is a relatively recent entrant at 
the refining level of the industry, having established its refining facility in 2007. 
Goodman Fielder's commercial fats and oils business 
14. 
Goodman Fielder is one of Australasia's leading listed food companies and holds 
a portfolio of well known consumer brands (including Meadow Lea, Praise, 
White Wings and Pampas). It produces a variety of food products, including 
                                                 
1 In this document all references to refining should be taken to include the processes of refining, 
bleaching and deodorising (RBD), unless otherwise stated 


Cargill Australia Ltd - proposed acquisition of Goodman Fielder’s commercial fats and 
oils business 
 
3
bread, milk, margarine, flour, dressings, condiments, cake mix, pies, smallgoods, 
desserts and cooking oils.  
15. 
Goodman Fielder is the largest refiner and supplier of edible fats and oils to 
Australian and New Zealand food manufacturers and wholesalers. It operates 
refining assets at four locations in Australia and New Zealand, which form part of 
the proposed acquisition. Goodman Fielder does not have any operations at the 
processing/crushing level of the industry, instead acquiring its crude vegetable 
oils from domestic and international suppliers. Post acquisition, Goodman Fielder 
will continue to acquire refined edible fats and oils for its own food 
manufacturing businesses. 
Other industry participants 
Peerless 
16. 
Peerless Holdings is an Australian company incorporated in the early 1950s. The 
company began as a small business, recycling and rendering meat by-products. In 
the 1980s, Peerless diversified its operation and established an edible fats and oils 
refinery, which is located at Braybrook in Victoria. 
17. 
Peerless is one of Australia’s largest privately owned refiners and marketers of 
edible oils and fats, and margarines. It supplies a wide range of edible fats and 
oils products to a diverse range of customers.  
Riverland Oilseeds 
18. 
Riverland Oilseeds operates a group of regionally located plants that crush locally 
grown oilseeds to produce oil and feed meal products for domestic and 
international markets. Riverland Oilseeds plants are located in Numurkah in 
Northern Victoria, Millicent in South Australia and Pinjarra in Western Australia.  
19. 
Riverland processes canola seeds to produce crude canola oil, which is sold to 
customers that include domestic edible fats and oils refiners. Riverland has 
recently expanded its Numurkah plant to include oil refining and bleaching 
capabilities, which produces oil products for intermediate or industrial 
applications (the plant is not fitted with deodorising equipment, which means that 
it is not able to fully refine crude oil into edible fats and oils products).   
Manildra / Mac Smith Milling 
20. 
Mac Smith Milling and Manildra jointly operate a vertically integrated processing 
and refining facility at Manildra in NSW. The integrated facility crushes and 
refines canola oil only. 
Others 
21. 
There are a number of other industry participants who process oilseeds and/or 
operate edible fats and oil refineries in Australia. These other market participants 
are primarily involved in the processing or refining of canola based products. 


Cargill Australia Ltd - proposed acquisition of Goodman Fielder’s commercial fats and 
oils business 
 
4
Generally, these other participants have smaller capacities when compared to the 
merged firm and represent only a small fraction of each of the relevant markets. 
Market inquiries 
22. 
On 10 December 2009 the ACCC commenced market inquiries regarding the 
proposed acquisition. A range of interested parties provided responses, including 
other suppliers of crude vegetable oils and/or refined fats and oils products; and 
customers (of both crude vegetable oils and refined edible fats and oils). 
Industry Background 
23. 
Edible fats and oils are lipid materials derived from plant or animal material, 
which are consumed directly or as ingredients in food and manufactured 
products. The diagram below sets out the supply chain in relation to the 
production of edible vegetable fats and oils. 
 
24. 
The raw materials used to make crude vegetable oil, such as canola, soybean, 
sunflower and cotton seeds, are sourced by oil processors from a large number of 
growers and traders within Australia and overseas.  
25. 
Each year, Australian production of oilseed exhibits a high degree of variability 
depending on a range of factors (including the extent of drought conditions). 
Australian oilseed processors (sometimes also referred to as ‘crushers’) are able 
to supplement domestic supply of oilseed through imports. The importation of 
oilseed may occur in circumstances where there are shortfalls in Australian 
production or where the particular oilseed required is not grown domestically. For 
example, palm is not grown in Australia and other seeds, such as sunflower and 
soybean, are not typically grown in sufficient quantities to meet Australian 
demand. 
26. 
Presently, Cargill is the largest oilseed processor in Australia. Cargill currently 
engages in the processing of a range of oilseeds, including canola, soybeans, 
sunflower and cotton seed. Cargill is the only significant processor of non-canola 
oilseeds in Australia. 
27. 
In order to produce refined edible fats and oils, crude vegetable oil must go 
through the additional step of ‘refining’. Refining is the phrase commonly used to 
describe the three distinct processes of refining, bleaching and deodorising crude 
Acquire 
oil seed 
Process  
oil seed 
(crushing) 
Refining 
crude oil 
(refine, 
bleach & 
deodorise) 
Blending / 
Mixing / 
Packaging / 
Distribution 
End use 
(ie retail, 
food 
manufacture 
etc) 
Figure 1: Edible vegetable fats and oils production and supply chain 


Cargill Australia Ltd - proposed acquisition of Goodman Fielder’s commercial fats and 
oils business 
 
5
vegetable oil. Some edible fats and oils products, in particular bakery fats such as 
margarines and shortenings, must go through additional processing steps (an 
additional piece of equipment, called a perfector or votator, is ordinarily required 
to produce these products). 
28. 
Refined edible fats and oils are supplied either in bulk or packaged form, 
depending on the requirements of the customer. For those products that are 
supplied as packaged fats and oils, the supplier will also require packaging 
facilities. Packaged fats and oils for use by participants in the food service 
industry and quick service restaurants are supplied in varying quantities, most 
commonly in 20 litre drums or boxed with a bladder lining. Packaged fats and 
oils are also supplied in smaller quantities for sale through retail channels. 
Products supplied to customers in bulk are delivered to the customer in 
specialised tankers (in the case of bulk shortening products, heated tankers are 
required). Prior to being packaged or loaded into tankers, the refined product is 
ordinarily stored by the refiner in large storage tanks (commonly referred to as a 
‘tank farm’).   
29. 
Some customers require specific blends of fats or oils (for example, a mixture of 
palm and canola oils). These blends are completed by the refiner at the packaging 
stage (in the case of packaged products) or blended into the tanker (in the case of 
bulk products).   
Market definition  
30. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the relevant markets for assessing the 
competitive effects of the proposed acquisition should be defined as follows: 
a. national market for the supply of refined bulk edible fats and oils 
(referred to as refined bulk oils); 
b. national market for the supply of refined packaged edible fats and oils 
(referred to as refined packaged oils); 
c. national market for the supply of refined bulk edible bakery and yellow 
fats (referred to as votated bulk products); 
d. national market for the supply of refined packaged bakery and yellow 
fats (referred to as votated packaged products); 
e. national market for the supply of refined tallow; 
f. national market for the supply of crude vegetable oils. 
31. 
In forming its preliminary view on the product dimension of the relevant markets 
above, the ACCC considered which products were likely to be close substitutes 
for one another from both a supply and demand perspective. Market inquiries 
indicated that particular refined fats and oils products had characteristics that 
made them more suitable for certain uses. For example, some oils are more 
suitable for frying. Market inquiries indicated that from a demand perspective 


Cargill Australia Ltd - proposed acquisition of Goodman Fielder’s commercial fats and 
oils business 
 
6
there was minimal substitution between varieties of refined oils or votated 
products, especially for customers of bulk products.  
32. 
From a supply perspective, market inquiries indicated that refiners of edible fats 
and oils could quite easily switch refining facilities to refine different varieties of 
oils. For example, a refiner of canola could easily switch to refining sunflower oil 
(provided they had access to the necessary inputs). However, inquiries to date 
indicate that suppliers of refined oils are unlikely to be able to easily switch their 
refining facilities to producing votated products. In particular, the ACCC noted 
the additional capital investment required to produce votated products. The 
ACCC considered that the additional plant and equipment required to produce 
votated products was sufficient to warrant defining votated products as a separate 
market.  However further information is sought on this issue. 
33. 
The ACCC considers that it is appropriate to define the supply of bulk and 
packaged products as separate markets. Inquiries to date indicate that there is 
limited supply side substitution between bulk and packaged products due to the 
additional specific investments necessary to supply each type of product.  In 
particular, inquiries to date have indicated that suppliers of bulk product need to 
invest in, or gain access to, specialised tankers in which to transport the bulk 
refined oils or votated products to end consumers. Similarly, to supply packaged 
products refiners must make capital investment in packaging and storage 
facilitates. Further, inquiries to date indicate that on the demand side, the ability 
of customers to substitute between bulk and packaged products is limited due to 
the manner in which the product is delivered and difference in quantities. 
34. 
The ACCC has formed a preliminary view that refined tallow should be defined 
as a separate market from other edible fats and oils given limitations in demand 
and supply side substitutability. Refined tallow is made from animal fat. From a 
demand perspective, tallow has limited application (being used in restaurant 
foodservice and bakery products only). Market inquiries have also suggested that 
refiners can not switch to producing refined tallow as readily as other varieties of 
edible oils, primarily because of the need to ensure segregation of animal matter 
from other products. 
35. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the refining markets outlined above are 
likely to be national in scope given that market inquiries indicate that there is 
frequent interstate movement of refined fats and oils and votated products. The 
ACCC notes however, that there appears to be minimal supply of refined 
products and votated products between the east and west cost of Australia and is 
considering whether the geographic scope of the relevant refining markets should 
be narrowed. 
36. 
In relation to the supply of crude vegetable oils, there appears to be minimal 
difficulty in switching processing facilities to crush different types of oilseeds, 
although there are some additional requirements for crushers to be able to crush 
cottonseed.  
37. 
However, the ACCC notes that a major impediment to switching crushing 
facilities to alternative oilseeds may be the ability of processors to economically 


Cargill Australia Ltd - proposed acquisition of Goodman Fielder’s commercial fats and 
oils business 
 
7
access certain seeds due to the geographic location of the crushing facility. This 
would reduce the extent to which differently located suppliers of crude oil could 
compete with each other across the full range of products. The ACCC is 
interested in obtaining further information about the ability of processors to 
switch production facilities to enable the production of different varieties of crude 
oil, including the ability of processors to economically access the necessary oil 
seeds. 
38. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the market for the supply of crude 
vegetable oils is national in scope.  Inquiries to date have indicated that crude 
vegetable oils are distributed on a national basis. However, the ACCC notes that 
there could be some limitations on the ability of processors situated on the west 
coast to supply customers on the east coast, and similar limits on the ability of 
east coast suppliers to supply west coast customers.   
 
Statement of issues 
39. 
For the purposes of a Statement of Issues, the ACCC may identify three 
categories of issues: ‘issues of concern’, ‘issues that may raise concerns requiring 
further analysis’ and ‘issues unlikely to raise competition concerns’. In this 
Statement of Issues, the issues have been categorised as 'issues that may raise 
concerns requiring further analysis' or ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’.  
Issues that may raise concerns requiring further analysis 
40. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition may raise 
competition concerns in the markets for the supply of refined bulk oils and 
votated bulk products. The ACCC will consider these markets together in this 
Statement of Issues, given that they have similar characteristics and raise similar 
Comments sought from interested parties on market definition 
The ACCC is seeking comments from interested parties on the appropriateness of 
the market definitions outlined above. In particular, the ACCC’s inquiries will 
focus on the following matters: 
a. Whether the geographic scope of the markets should be defined on a 
narrower basis and why. 
b. Obtaining further certainty as to the costs to an existing refiner of edible fats 
and oils commencing production of votated products (either packaged or 
bulk) and whether there are any other relevant considerations when 
determining the incentives to commence supply of votated products. 
c. Confirming geographic factors that influence the ability of processors to 
supply certain varieties of crude vegetable oils. 
d. Confirming whether there are particular varieties of oil seeds that require 
additional investment in plant and equipment to process.


Cargill Australia Ltd - proposed acquisition of Goodman Fielder’s commercial fats and 
oils business 
 
8
competition issues. Where different issues arise, this will be outlined where 
relevant below. 
41. 
Based on the ACCC’s inquiries to date, the ACCC has formed a preliminary view 
that the proposed acquisition could enable the merged firm to unilaterally 
exercise market power in these markets.  In particular, the ACCC is investigating 
whether the merged firm could significantly and sustainably increase prices, 
reduce quality, service and/or innovation in these areas.  
42. 
The ACCC also considers that the proposed acquisition may increase the 
likelihood of coordinated conduct between refiners of edible fats and oils. 
43. 
The ACCC considers that a number of the issues outlined below are important to 
the consideration of both unilateral and coordinated effects arising from the 
proposed acquisition.  
44. 
The following section outlines the ACCC’s concerns and provides details of 
further information that is being sought from interested parties. 
Reduced competition for the supply of refined bulk oils and bulk votated products  
Market concentration 
45. 
As stated above, Goodman Fielder is the largest supplier of refined edible oils 
and fats in Australia, while Cargill is the third largest supplier. Peerless, the 
second largest refiner of edible fats and oils, has a refining facility located in 
Melbourne and supplies a wide range of refined edible fats and oils (including 
multiple oil varieties, margarines and shortenings). 
46. 
The proposed acquisition will result in a significant increase in the level of 
concentration at the refining level of the industry.  The merged firm will account 
for over half of total refining capacity and output. 
47. 
The ACCC is still seeking further information to verify the market shares of each 
of the parties and their competitors in relation to each of the relevant markets. 
The ACCC estimates that the merged firm will have at least half of the market 
share in each of the markets of concern.  
Availability of substitutes 
48. 
Market inquiries to date indicate that there are a number of other competitors at 
the refining level, however they do not supply a full range of refined bulk oils or 
votated bulk products, nor do they have the ability or incentive to supply the 
same range of customers as the merged firm. It is also noted that a number of 
these other competitors have limited production capacity, in particular when 
compared to the merger parties. In relation to the market for the supply of bulk 
votated products, the number of available substitutes is fewer than that for bulk 
refined oils.  
49. 
As such, while alternative suppliers compete to supply a smaller range of 
products to certain customers, they do not compete as closely with the merger 


Cargill Australia Ltd - proposed acquisition of Goodman Fielder’s commercial fats and 
oils business 
 
9
parties or Peerless. The ability of some alternative suppliers to compete is also 
limited by their capacity. 
Barriers to entry and expansion 
50. 
The ACCC is considering whether the merged firm could be constrained from 
exercising market power in the markets for refined bulk oils and bulk votated 
products by actual or threatened entry or expansion. Specifically, the ACCC is 
concerned that entry and expansion must be sufficient to replace the competitive 
constraint lost as a result of the proposed acquisition. The ACCC is seeking 
further information on the ability and incentive of industry participants to supply 
a range of products so as to compete directly with the merged firm in these 
markets. 
51. 
The ACCC considers that entry and expansion in relation to the supply of refined 
bulk oils may occur by: 
a. a completely new entrant establishing a refining facility and 
commencing production and supply of refined product (including a 
processor vertically integrating);  
b. entry by a party that does not currently operate edible fats and oils 
refining facilities, but that has access to refining plant and equipment. 
For example, a refiner of non-edible fats and oils products (such as a 
biodiesel refiner) or a processor that has some refining equipment used 
to produce industrial oil products; or 
c. an existing participant expanding its refining operations (for example, 
by increasing the range of products beyond canola oils so as to compete 
directly with the merged firm or increasing its capacity). 
52. 
Entry into the market for bulk votated products would occur in a similar way, 
although an entrant would also need to invest in the equipment and incur other 
associated costs necessary to commence production of votated products. 
53. 
The ACCC notes that the edible fats and oils industry has exhibited a number of 
structural changes within the past five years, including: 
a. the entry of Cargill into the refining stage of production in 2007 
b. the closure by Goodman Fielder of refining assets located in Sydney 
c. the expansion by Manildra / Mac Smith of its refining facilities 
d. the commissioning of a new crushing and refining facility in Wagga 
Wagga by Riverina Oils and Bio Energy (which is likely to commence 
production by the end of 2010). 
54. 
Accordingly, information received to date shows some evidence that entry and/or 
expansion has occurred or been commissioned, and there may be some potential 
for entry from refiners of non-edible fats and oils. However, market inquiries 


Cargill Australia Ltd - proposed acquisition of Goodman Fielder’s commercial fats and 
oils business 
 
10
have revealed that entry and expansion in refining may not be timely, likely or 
sufficient in scope so as to act as a constraint on the merged firm. In particular, 
concerns have been raised that: 
a. Refiners may face difficulties gaining economic access to certain inputs, 
such as particular types of crude oil. 
b. In order to effectively compete there is a need to obtain significant scale 
to take advantage of volume efficiencies in the manufacturing process, 
which may limit the viability of entry or expansion. 
c. There is presently excess capacity at the refining level, that may be 
deployed against new entrants or existing market participants seeking to 
expand, further increasing the risk that sufficient scale will not be 
achieved to justify entry. 
d. There exists substantial sunk costs for completely new entrants, which 
increases the risks of and costs associated with failed entry. 
e. There is a risk of retaliatory action by incumbents against new entry or 
expansion (for example, the ability to engage in price wars or 
temporarily price below cost). 
f. Customers may take some time and convincing before switching to new 
entrants, for example, many customers require significant lead times 
before changing refined oil suppliers due to the need to conduct tests on 
the fats and oil products as well as their finished products manufactured 
with the new manufacturer’s product. 
55. 
Despite the existence of some degree of entry and expansion, the ACCC 
continues to be concerned that the threat of entry and expansion may not be 
sufficient to constrain the merged entity from exercising market power post 
acquisition. The ACCC notes that new entry or expansion would need to 
constrain the merged firm across a broad range of fats and oils products to 
sufficiently replace the competitive tension lost from the proposed acquisition. 
Countervailing power 
56. 
Market inquiries have raised concerns that a number of the issues identified 
above in relation to barriers to entry and expansion may limit the ability of 
customers to effectively sponsor new entry or expansion, or manufacture their 
requirements in-house. In addition, market inquiries have not identified any other 
forms of countervailing power likely to provide a significant competitive 
constraint on the ability of the merged firm to exercise market power post merger. 
Imports 
57. 
Market inquiries to date have also indicated that, while imports of packaged 
refined edible fats and oils exist, the threat of imports of bulk refined oils is 
unlikely to significantly constrain the ability of the merged firm to exercise 
market power post acquisition. Market participants raised concerns about: 


Cargill Australia Ltd - proposed acquisition of Goodman Fielder’s commercial fats and 
oils business 
 
11
a. The impact of freight costs and the inability to access imports at 
competitive prices generally 
b. Product degradation during transport 
c. Long lead times 
d. The cost of installing additional storage to manage inventory risk 
e. Increased difficulty and cost of obtaining non-GM canola 
f. Quality assurance issues 
g. Increased supply chain risk, in particular in controlling quality from 
overseas manufacturers and ensuring certainty of supply. 
58. 
Market inquiries indicated that imports of votated products are more problematic 
than other edible oils. This is primarily due to additional stability issues which 
affect the quality of votated products that are transported long distances.  
59. 
The ACCC has formed a preliminary view that imports of bulk refined oils and 
bulk votated products are unlikely to act as a constraint against the merged firm 
exercising market power in the relevant markets post merger. 
60. 
The ACCC notes that it conducted a review of the acquisition of Unilever 
Australia’s non-retail margarine and edible oils business by Peerless Holdings 
Ltd in 2005. In that matter, the ACCC decided not to oppose the proposed 
acquisition as it was unlikely to substantially lessen competition partly due to the 
constraining effect of significant import competition. While the ACCC has had 
regard to this previous decision in considering the issue of import competition in 
the present proposed acquisition, each acquisition that the ACCC reviews needs 
to have regard to information pertaining to the particular market dynamics at the 
time of that review.  When considering the current proposed acquisition, a 
preliminary view that imports are unlikely to act as a sufficient constraint is based 
on information provided by industry participants at this time. 


Cargill Australia Ltd - proposed acquisition of Goodman Fielder’s commercial fats and 
oils business 
 
12
 
Additional factors relevant to the consideration of coordinated effects 
61. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition may increase the risk of 
coordinated conduct in the market for the supply of refined bulk oils and the 
market for the supply of votated bulk products. In particular, market inquiries to 
date indicate that certain market conditions exist that are likely to be conducive to 
coordinated conduct post-acquisition including the following: 
a. the increased concentration in each of these markets will reduce the 
number of firms and may increase interdependence between them.  
Comments sought from interested parties in relation to refined bulk oils and 
bulk votated products. 
In considering the effect of the proposed acquisition on markets for the supply of 
refined bulk oils and bulk votated products, the ACCC will focus its further 
inquiries on whether there is sufficient ability and incentive for new entrants or 
existing competitors to replace any competitive constraint lost as a result of the 
proposed acquisition. The ACCC is particularly interested in information to enable 
it to form a conclusion on whether current or future competitors are able to 
economically access inputs necessary to supply a wide range of refined bulk oils 
and votated bulk products, similar to that currently supplied by the merger parties.  
In this regard, the ACCC is seeking specific information on the following matters: 
a. Matters that would affect a decision to enter or expand an existing presence in 
the market for the supply of refined bulk oils and/or the market for the supply 
of votated bulk products, including: 
i. Details of minimum efficient scale, including any feasibility studies, 
financial analysis or records, or other information or data surrounding 
the efficiency or viability of entry. 
ii. The relevance of the existence of overcapacity. 
iii. The ease with which non-edible oil refiners could establish themselves 
as new entrants into the supply of refined bulk oils or votated products, 
including what factors would result in an incentive for them to do so 
(for example, whether there are any government policies in relation to 
biodiesel that may reduce an incentive to produce edible fats and oils). 
iv. Details of sunk costs (in particular, those which may reduce the ability 
and incentive of a participant to enter the refining industry). 
v. The ability of a new entrant, or existing market participant seeking to 
expand their operations, to gain economic access to required inputs, 
e.g. crude oil, including any feasibility studies, financial analysis or 
records, or other information or data surrounding access to inputs. 


Cargill Australia Ltd - proposed acquisition of Goodman Fielder’s commercial fats and 
oils business 
 
13
b. firms may have an increased ability and incentive to settle on terms that 
are profitable for all (such as tacit agreements to supply refined products 
only to certain geographical locations or certain types of customers). 
c. other firms could threaten to retaliate against firms that engage in 
competitive conduct, for example by deploying excess capacity. 
d. other constraints such as the likelihood of entry and imports as discussed 
above may not sufficiently prevent the coordination. 
62. 
Market inquiries have indicated that when Cargill entered these markets, it placed 
a degree of competitive constraint on other suppliers that had not previously been 
present. This is evidenced by the competitive response to Cargill’s entry. The 
ACCC is continuing to investigate these issues, including the ability of new 
entrants into relevant refining markets to disrupt any coordinated conduct. 
 
Cargill’s increased vertical integration may affect competition in the market for the 
supply of bulk refined oil and bulk votated products and / or the market for the supply 
of crude vegetable oils 
 
63. 
The proposed acquisition will combine the largest oilseed processor, Cargill, with 
the largest edible fats and oils refiner, Goodman Fielder. Although Cargill 
already operates refining facilities, the proposed acquisition will significantly 
increase its refining capacity and more closely align its capacity at the crushing 
and refining levels. The ACCC considers that post acquisition, Cargill is likely to 
have an incentive to internalise the supply of crude vegetable oils from its 
crushing facilities to the existing Goodman Fielder refineries to maximise 
volumes through its crush plants and minimise costs. Accordingly, the ACCC is 
investigating whether the proposed acquisition may result in a substantial 
lessening of competition in the relevant market for the supply of refined bulk oils, 
the market for the supply of bulk votated products and/or the market for the 
supply of crude vegetable oils from either: 
Comments sought from interested parties on coordinated effects 
The ACCC is seeking information from interested parties in relation to the issues 
outlined above.  In particular, in addition to further information regarding the 
potential for new entry and expansion (as outlined in the previous section), the 
ACCC would appreciate information on the following matters to assist it in 
determining whether coordinated conduct is likely to arise: 
a. How refiners could signal to each other that they will not compete (for 
example on price, output or customer allocation). 
b. The ability of refiners to be aware of the behaviour of other refiners, for 
example how easily they can observe competitor pricing or terms of trade. 


Cargill Australia Ltd - proposed acquisition of Goodman Fielder’s commercial fats and 
oils business 
 
14
a. the potential loss of Goodman Fielder as a customer of competing 
processors upstream;  
b. the potential loss of Cargill as a supplier of crude vegetable oils to 
competing refineries downstream; 
c. restricted access to certain crude oils for refiners. 
64. 
The ACCC notes that these theories of harm may, on their face, appear to be 
competing with one another. The ACCC is still examining the extent to which 
any of these outcomes are likely to occur, and if so, how remaining processors 
and refiners may react in order to determine whether significant competitive harm 
is likely to result. However, these are the concerns that have been raised during 
the ACCC’s review of the proposed acquisition and the ACCC considers that 
these matters warrant testing with industry participants prior to it forming a view. 
Loss of Goodman Fielder as a customer to other processors 
65. 
At present, Goodman Fielder is the largest refiner of edible fats and oils in 
Australia and, as it is not a vertically integrated firm with processing facilities, it 
must source 100% of its crude vegetable oils from other market participants or 
imports. 
66. 
The ACCC’s market inquiries have raised concerns that the proposed acquisition 
will remove Goodman Fielder as a customer or potential customer of crude 
vegetable oil products to competing processors. The loss of a major customer of 
crude oil products may impact on the viability or efficiency of such processors, 
which may affect the ability of those processors to competitively supply 
alternative refining customers with crude vegetable oils. 
67. 
The ACCC notes that market inquiries to date suggest there is currently a 
significant level of exports of some crude vegetable oils, in particular, canola. 
The ability to export crude oils may limit the effect of the removal of Goodman 
Fielder as a major customer of domestic crushers. However, market inquiries 
have raised concerns that exports may not provide an ongoing viable alternative 
to domestic supply of crude vegetable oils. 
68. 
In addition, the ACCC considers that further information surrounding a number 
of issues outlined in the analysis of the horizontal competition issues above, such 
as the extent of barriers to entry and expansion into relevant markets, may impact 
on the analysis of this issue. 
69. 
The ACCC is seeking further information regarding this issue prior to forming a 
concluded view. 
Loss of Cargill as a supplier of crude vegetable oils to refiners 
70. 
Presently, Cargill competes with other processors to supply crude vegetable oils 
to a number of other refiners. Post acquisition, the increase in Cargill’s capacity 
at the refining level resulting from the acquisition of Goodman Fielder’s refining 
operations may reduce its incentive to supply crude vegetable oils to refiners 


Cargill Australia Ltd - proposed acquisition of Goodman Fielder’s commercial fats and 
oils business 
 
15
other than itself. That is, it will be able to self supply its refining operations from 
its current processing operations. 
71. 
As noted above, Cargill is at present the only oil seed processor that processes a 
full range of oil seeds (i.e. canola and non-canola seeds). Market inquiries have 
indicated that the supply of crude non-canola oil may be affected by the proposed 
acquisition given that: 
a. Cargill will have a reduced incentive to supply crude vegetable oils to 
refiners other than itself because: 
i. it will be able to utilise all or most of its non-canola crude oil 
volumes as a result of its increased capacity at the refining level; 
and 
ii. its increased capacity at the refining level may reduce its 
incentive to supply refiners which compete in downstream 
markets. 
b. These other refiners may face difficulties obtaining economic access to 
imports of crude non-canola based oils due to volume requirements 
needed to access imports at a competitive price. 
c. Access to domestic supply of the inputs necessary to produce 
non-canola products is limited, as a result of shortfalls in domestic 
supply, the location of some oil seed types in relation to competing 
crushers and, in some circumstances, proprietary rights. 
72. 
Further, market inquiries have raised concerns that the removal of Cargill as a 
competitor in the supply of crude canola oil may result in an increase in the price 
of crude canola oil. This is because Cargill is likely to self supply its refining 
operations with crude canola oil from its current processing operations, enabling 
it to achieve sufficient volumes to ensure efficiency of its crush facilities without 
the need to supply competing refineries. In addition, as the remaining volume of 
capacity to crush canola at Cargill’s crush facilities will be limited, Cargill may 
be able to effectively sell these relatively small volumes via export, rather than 
provide competitive supply to its downstream competitors. 
73. 
Market inquiries have indicated that Cargill is currently a vigorous and effective 
competitor in relation to the supply of crude canola oil. The proposed acquisition 
may result in the removal of the competitive constraint that Cargill currently 
places on other competitors at the processing level, which could lead to an 
increase in the price of crude oil products. 
74. 
However, the ACCC notes that even if Cargill is removed as an upstream 
competitor for the supply of crude canola oil, it is not clear whether this will 
result in a substantial lessening of competition in any relevant market. 
75. 
In particular, the ACCC notes that the proposed acquisition will remove one 
supplier and one customer of non-integrated sales of crude canola oil. It is not 
immediately clear what impact this will have on competition in the relevant 


Cargill Australia Ltd - proposed acquisition of Goodman Fielder’s commercial fats and 
oils business 
 
16
markets. On one hand, a reduction in the number of suppliers of crude oil may 
impact the ability of downstream customers to negotiate on price. On the other, 
the removal of a downstream customer may increase the reliance of upstream 
crushers on alternative downstream refiners, depressing the price of crude oil. 
While the proposed merger may alter the bargaining dynamics in the relevant 
markets, it is unclear how this change in bargaining position will impact 
competition in the relevant markets. 
76. 
In addition, it is possible that competition in the downstream refining market may 
have the effect of constraining suppliers of crude canola oil. This is because both 
crushers and refiners attempt to maximise volume throughput to ensure efficiency 
of their operations, for which there are high fixed costs and relatively low 
margins on output. Remaining crushers may have an incentive to supply crude oil 
at competitive prices to enable refineries to effectively compete in downstream 
markets, thus increasing (or maintaining) their required volumes of crude oil with 
a mutually beneficial outcome for both the crusher and refiner. 
77. 
The ACCC is seeking further information regarding this issue prior to forming a 
concluded view. 
Restricted access to certain crude vegetable oils for refiners 
78. 
The ACCC is concerned that Cargill may have an increased incentive to foreclose 
on its rivals in the refining industry by restricting access to inputs that are 
necessary for the production of non-canola based bulk oils, in particular, certain 
non-canola based crude oils.  
79. 
In addition, other refiners may be, in some circumstances, reliant on Goodman 
Fielder or Cargill to gain access to certain crude or partially refined oils due to 
the merger parties ability to economically import these products in large volumes. 
However, post-acquisition the merged firm’s incentive to maintain these 
arrangements may be reduced as the benefits to the larger, vertically integrated 
merged firm may be reduced. In addition, post-acquisition Cargill’s incentive to 
supply these products to competing refineries domestically may be reduced. 


Cargill Australia Ltd - proposed acquisition of Goodman Fielder’s commercial fats and 
oils business 
 
17
 
Issues unlikely to raise concerns 
Competition for the supply of refined packaged oils 
80. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to raise 
competition concerns in the market for the supply of refined packaged oils. The 
ACCC’s inquiries have indicated that packaged oils are easily transported and 
there are significant imports of packaged oils sold in Australia. In its preliminary 
view, the ACCC considers that imports are likely to continue to provide a 
Comments sought from interested parties in relation to vertical foreclosure 
issues 
In considering the effect of the proposed acquisition, the ACCC is interested in 
any information interested parties can provide to assist in forming a conclusion as 
to the likely competitive effects of the increased degree of vertical integration 
between Cargill’s processing and refining operations post acquisition. The ACCC 
specifically seeks comment on: 
a. The ability of and incentive for existing oil seed processors to commence 
crushing non-canola based products (such as soybean and sunflower), 
including: 
i. the ability of processors to access non-canola based oil seeds and 
economically supply the crude oils to refiners. The ACCC seeks any 
feasibility studies, financial analysis or records, or other data or 
information concerning this issue. 
ii. Whether the proposed acquisition would result in an increased incentive 
for existing oil seed processors to commence crushing non-canola based 
products, and why or why not? 
iii. details of the costs and steps involved in expanding processing facilities 
in order to process non-canola based products. 
b. The ability and incentive of oil seed processors to export crude vegetable oils 
products (both canola and non-canola based), including details of the price at 
which oil is exported and any difficulties in establishing these supply channels. 
c. The approximate export and import parity prices of crude canola and non-
canola oils, or the difference between these prices, and the extent to which 
prices have changed over the past five years. 
d. The ability of refiners to access non-canola based crude vegetable oils, such as 
crude palm and sunflower. 
e. The effect of the removal of Cargill as a supplier of crude vegetable oils to 
other refiners, including what constraints exist to prevent other suppliers of 
crude vegetable oils from increasing their prices post-acquisition. 


Cargill Australia Ltd - proposed acquisition of Goodman Fielder’s commercial fats and 
oils business 
 
18
significant competitive constraint to suppliers of refined packaged oils post 
acquisition.  
Competition for the supply of votated packaged products 
81. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to raise 
competition concerns in the market for the supply of votated packaged products. 
82. 
It is important to note that, unlike refined packaged oils, the ACCC’s inquiries 
indicated that votated packaged products are not as easily transportable and may 
be subject to degradation during longer freight trips. In particular, the ACCC’s 
inquiries indicated that there are not significant imports of votated packaged 
products and that imports of these products are unlikely to provide a sufficient 
competitive constraint on the market post acquisition. 
83. 
Goodman Fielder is a significant supplier of votated packaged products. 
However, the ACCC’s inquiries revealed that Cargill does not currently supply 
votated packaged products, despite operating the appropriate manufacturing 
equipment and facilities to package oil products. Given Cargill’s existing votation 
and packaging operations, the ACCC considers that the barriers for Cargill to 
commence supply of packaged votated products is significantly lower than for an 
entirely new entrant and as such, Cargill may provide some degree of competitive 
constraint or, may in the future provide a competitive constraint in this market. 
84. 
However, based on the response to market inquiries, the ACCC does not consider 
that the degree of constraint provided by Cargill in this market is significant. As 
such, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that any lessening of competition resulting 
from the proposed acquisition in the market for votated packaged products is 
unlikely to be substantial. 
Competition for the supply of refined tallow 
85. 
The ACCC’s inquiries raised some concerns about the supply of refined tallow 
post-acquisition. Goodman Fielder currently supplies refined tallow. However, 
the ACCC’s inquiries have indicated that while Cargill supplies some inputs to 
manufacturers of refined tallow, it does not currently supply refined tallow in 
Australia, and without the acquisition is unlikely to do so. Consequently, the 
ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to result in 
a substantial lessening of competition in the refined tallow market. 
 
ACCC's future steps 
86. 
The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers market responses 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
Comments sought from interested parties on issues unlikely to raise concerns 
 
The ACCC invites further submissions from interested parties concerning the 
ACCC’s preliminary view of these issues.


Cargill Australia Ltd - proposed acquisition of Goodman Fielder’s commercial fats and 
oils business 
 
19
87. 
The ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on each of the issues 
identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that may be relevant 
to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. 
88. 
Submissions are to be received by the ACCC no later than 4 March 2010. The 
ACCC will consider the submissions received from the market and the merger 
parties in light of the issues identified above and will, in conjunction with 
information and submissions already provided by the parties, come to a final 
view in light of the issues raised above. 
89. 
The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 18 March 2010. 
However the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Merger Review 
Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose of 
explaining the ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's public 
announcement. 
