 
Public Competition Assessment 
11 May 2010 
Cargill Australia Ltd - proposed acquisition of Goodman Fielder's 
commercial edible fats and oils business 
Introduction 
1. On 31 March 2010, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission 
(ACCC) announced its decision to oppose the proposed acquisition of Goodman 
Fielder's commercial edible fats and oils business by Cargill Australia Ltd 
(proposed acquisition). The ACCC decided that the proposed acquisition would 
be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in certain 
markets for the manufacture and wholesale supply of edible fats and oils products 
in Australia in contravention of section 50 of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (the 
Act). 
2. The ACCC made its decision on the basis of the information provided by the 
merger parties and information arising from its market inquiries. This Public 
Competition Assessment outlines the basis on which the ACCC has reached its 
decision on the proposed acquisition, subject to confidentiality considerations. 
Public Competition Assessment 
3. To provide an enhanced level of transparency and procedural fairness in its 
decision making process, the ACCC issues a Public Competition Assessment for 
all transaction proposals where: 
a. a merger is opposed; 
b. a merger is subject to enforceable undertakings; 
c. the merger parties seek such disclosure; or 
d. a merger is not opposed but raises important issues that the ACCC considers 
should be made public. 
4. This Public Competition Assessment has been issued because Cargill Australia 
Ltd’s (Cargill) proposed acquisition of Goodman Fielder's commercial edible fats 
and oils business (the Goodman Fielder Business) was opposed by the ACCC. 
5. By issuing a Public Competition Assessment, the ACCC aims to provide the public 
with a better understanding of the ACCC's analysis of various markets and the 


 
-2- 
associated merger and competition issues. It also alerts the public to circumstances 
where the ACCC’s assessment of the competition conditions in particular markets 
is changing, or likely to change.  
6. Each Public Competition Assessment is specific to the particular transaction under 
review by the ACCC. While some transaction proposals may involve the same or 
related markets, it should not be assumed that the analysis and decision outlined in 
one Public Competition Assessment will be conclusive of the ACCC’s view in 
respect of other transaction proposals, as each matter will be considered on its own 
merits.  
7. Many of the ACCC’s decisions will involve consideration of both non-confidential 
and confidential information provided by the merger parties and market 
participants. In order to maintain the confidentiality of particular information, 
Public Competition Assessments do not contain any confidential information or its 
sources. While the ACCC aims to provide an appropriately detailed explanation of 
the basis for the ACCC decision, where this is not possible, maintaining 
confidentiality will be the ACCC's paramount concern, and accordingly a Public 
Competition Assessment may not definitively explain all issues and the ACCC’s 
analysis of such issues. 
The parties 
Cargill Australia Ltd 
8. Cargill is an international producer and marketer of food, agricultural, financial 
and industrial products and services. Cargill has operations in 68 countries.  
9. Cargill established operations in Australia in 1967, initially to serve the country’s 
large grain export industry. It has since extended its involvement into several other 
agricultural and industrial areas. These areas include oilseed and meat processing, 
grain and oilseed storage and flour milling. 
10. Cargill’s involvement in the edible fats and oils industry in Australia includes: 
a. the operation of three oilseed crushing facilities, which are located at 
Newcastle (NSW), Narrabri (NSW) and Footscray (VIC), which Cargill 
deploys to crush a range of oilseeds (including canola, cotton, sunflower and 
soybean) to produce crude vegetable oils 
b. the operation of a refining facility in Newcastle, which produces a range of 
liquid oils (such as canola and sunflower) and shortenings. 
11. Cargill is the largest supplier of crude vegetable oils (and the only significant 
domestic supplier of some crude vegetable oils, e.g. sunflower, soybean and 
cottonseed oil varieties) and the third largest supplier of refined edible fats and oils 
in Australia. Cargill is a relatively recent entrant at the refining level of the 
industry, having established its refining facility in 2007. 
 


 
-3- 
Goodman Fielder's commercial edible fats and oils business 
12. Goodman Fielder is one of Australasia's leading listed food companies and holds a 
portfolio of well known consumer brands (including Meadow Lea, Praise, White 
Wings and Pampas). It produces a variety of food products, including bread, milk, 
margarine, flour, dressings, condiments, cake mix, pies, smallgoods, desserts and 
cooking oils.  
13. Goodman Fielder is the largest refiner and supplier of edible fats and oils products 
to Australian and New Zealand food manufacturers and wholesalers. Goodman 
Fielder presently supplies a wide range of refined edible fats and oils, including 
margarines and blends, bakery fats and liquid oils. It operates refining facilities at 
four locations in Australia and New Zealand (West Footscray in Melbourne, 
Murarrie in Brisbane, Bunbury in Western Australia and Auckland in New 
Zealand), which form part of the proposed acquisition. Goodman Fielder does not 
own or operate any oilseed crushing facilities, instead acquiring its crude vegetable 
oils from domestic and international suppliers. Post acquisition, Goodman Fielder 
would have continued to acquire refined edible fats and oils for its own food 
manufacturing businesses. 
Other industry participants 
Peerless 
14. Peerless Holdings is an Australian company incorporated in the early 1950s. The 
company began as a small business, recycling and rendering meat by-products. In 
the 1980s, Peerless diversified its operation and established an edible fats and oils 
refinery, which is located at Braybrook in Victoria. 
15. Peerless is one of Australia’s largest privately owned refiners and marketers of 
edible fats and oil products, including margarines and bulk liquid oil blends. It 
supplies a wide range of edible fats and oils products to a diverse range of 
customers, including sunflower and palm oil based products.  
Riverland Oilseeds 
16. Riverland Oilseeds operates a group of regionally located plants that crush locally 
grown oilseeds to produce oil and feed meal products for domestic and 
international markets. Riverland Oilseeds is part of the Gardner Smith Group, 
which has interests in transport and logistics. Riverland Oilseeds plants are located 
in Numurkah in Northern Victoria, Millicent in South Australia and Pinjarra in 
Western Australia.  
17. Riverland crushes canola seeds to produce crude canola oil, which is sold to 
customers that include domestic edible fats and oils refiners. Riverland has 
recently expanded its Numurkah plant to include oil refining and bleaching 
capabilities, which produces oil products for intermediate or industrial applications 
(the plant is not fitted with deodorising equipment, which means that it is not able 
to fully refine crude vegetable oil into edible fats and oils products).   


 
-4- 
 
Manildra / Mac Smith Milling 
18. Mac Smith Milling and Manildra jointly operate a vertically integrated crushing 
and refining facility at Manildra in NSW. The integrated facility crushes and 
refines canola oil only. 
Others 
19. There are a number of other industry participants who crush oilseeds and/or 
operate edible fats and oil refineries in Australia. These other market participants 
are primarily involved in the crushing or refining of canola based products. 
Generally, these other participants have smaller capacities when compared to the 
merger parties and represent only a small fraction of each of the relevant markets. 
The proposed transaction 
20. On 10 December 2009 Cargill announced that it proposed to acquire Goodman 
Fielder’s commercial edible fats and oils business.  
21. The edible fats and oils business to be acquired from Goodman Fielder included 
four edible fats and oils refining facilities located at West Footscray in Melbourne, 
Murarrie in Brisbane, Bunbury in Western Australia and Auckland in New 
Zealand, and other associated assets.   
22. Goodman Fielder proposed to retain the title to the land at the Brisbane facility and 
lease the facility to Cargill for an extended period.  
23. In addition, the parties proposed to enter into a long-term supply agreement under 
which Cargill would supply certain edible fats and oils products to Goodman 
Fielder. 
24. The agreement also included assignment of a number of contracts, including ship 
chartering contracts for the importation of bulk oils from South America and Asia. 
Timing 
25. The following table outlines the timeline of key events in this matter. 
 
Date 
Event 
10-Dec-2009 
 
22-Jan-2010 
 
18-Feb-2010 
 
 
24-Feb-2010 
 
ACCC commenced review under the Merger Review Process Guidelines. 
 
Closing date for submissions from interested parties. 
 
ACCC published a Statement of Issues outlining preliminary competition 
concerns. 
 
Former proposed date for announcement of ACCC's findings, amended 
to allow for Statement of Issues. 


 
-5- 
 
04-Mar-2010 
 
11-Mar-2010 
 
 
 
 
31-Mar-2010 
 
Closing date for submissions relating to Statement of Issues. 
 
Former proposed date for announcement of ACCC's findings of 18 
March 2010 amended to allow for consideration of further information 
provided by the merger parties and market participants and allow 
for any necessary additional inquiries. 
 
ACCC announced it would oppose the proposed acquisition. 
 
Market inquiries 
26. The ACCC conducted market inquiries with a range of industry participants, 
including competitors, potential competitors, customers, logistics providers, 
industry bodies and other interested parties. Submissions were sought in relation to 
the substantive competition issues, in particular those issues raised in the Statement 
of Issues. 
Industry Background 
27. Edible fats and oils are lipid materials derived from plant or animal material, which 
are consumed directly or as ingredients in food and manufactured products. The 
diagram below sets out the supply chain in relation to the production of edible 
vegetable fats and oils (edible fats and oils). 
 
28. The raw materials used to make crude vegetable oil, such as canola, soybean, 
sunflower seed varieties and cotton seeds, are sourced by oilseed crushers from a 
large number of growers and traders within Australia and overseas. Crude palm 
oils (which includes palm stearine and palm olein) are sourced entirely through 
imports, as palm is not grown domestically for the purposes of oilseed crushing.  
29. Each year, Australian production of oilseed exhibits a high degree of variability 
depending on a range of factors (including the extent of drought conditions). 
Australian oilseed crushers (sometimes also referred to as ‘processors’) are, in 
some circumstances, able to supplement domestic supply of oilseed through 
imports. The importation of oilseed may occur in circumstances where there are 
shortfalls in Australian production or where the particular oilseed required is not 
grown domestically. However, there are some limitations on the ability of crushers 
Acquire 
oil seed 
  Process  
  oilseed   
  (domestic crushing) 
Refining 
crude oil 
(refine, 
bleach & 
deodorise) 
Blending / 
Mixing / 
Packaging / 
Distribution 
End use 
(ie retail, 
food 
manufacture 
etc) 
Figure 1: Edible vegetable fats and oils production and supply chain 
Import crude 
oil (sunflower, 
soy, palm etc) 


 
-6- 
to import oilseeds due to quarantine requirements. Refiners more commonly 
import crude vegetable oil to supplement domestic supply. 
30. Canola is the predominant oilseed grown in Australia, and Australia is a net 
exporter of both canola seed and crude canola oil.  
31. Sunflower seeds (both polyunsaturated and high oleic varieties) and soybeans are 
grown domestically, however there is a significant degree of volatility in the 
growth of these crops in Australia (for example, as a result of drought or late 
season rainfall). Further, sunflower and soybean are not typically grown in 
sufficient quantities to meet Australian demand and significant quantities of bulk 
sunflower and soybean oil is imported for refining in Australia to meet Australian 
demand.  
32. Presently, Cargill is the largest oilseed crusher in Australia. Cargill currently 
engages in the crushing of a range of oilseeds, including canola, soybeans, 
sunflower and cotton seed. Cargill is the only significant crusher of non-canola 
oilseeds in Australia, most notably it is the only crusher of domestically grown 
sunflower seeds and soybeans. 
33. In order to produce refined edible fats and oils, crude vegetable oil must go 
through the additional step of ‘RBD refining’. RBD refining describes the three 
distinct processes of refining, bleaching and deodorising crude vegetable oil. Some 
edible fats and oils products, in particular bakery fats such as margarines and 
shortenings, must go through additional processing steps (an additional piece of 
equipment, called a perfector or votator, is ordinarily required to produce these 
products). 
34. RBD edible fats and oils are supplied either in bulk or packaged form, depending 
on the requirements of the customer. For those products that are supplied as 
packaged fats and oils, the supplier will also require packaging facilities. Packaged 
RBD fats and oils for use by participants in the food service industry and quick 
service restaurants are supplied in varying quantities, most commonly in 20 litre 
drums or boxed with a bladder lining. Packaged RBD fats and oils are also 
supplied in smaller quantities for sale through retail channels. Products supplied to 
customers in bulk are delivered to the customer in specialised tankers (in the case 
of bulk shortening products, heated tankers are required). Prior to being packaged 
or loaded into tankers, the refined edible product is ordinarily stored by the refiner 
in large storage tanks (commonly referred to as a ‘tank farm’).   
35. Edible fats and oils products are supplied to a variety of customer channels, which 
can generally be categorised as follows: 
a. Industrial food manufacturing customers: These customers generally 
demand bulk RBD oils and/or votated products which are used as an 
ingredient to manufacture other products (for example, biscuits or 
confectionary). 
b. Bakery channel: Bakery customers use bulk and packaged fats and oils, 
including a high proportion of votated products, to make bakery goods (such 
as cakes and pies). 


 
-7- 
c. Quick service restaurants (QSR): Primarily demand packaged fats and oils, 
which are used to produce fast food restaurant products. 
d. Food service: Similar to QSR, these customers supply restaurant foods to a 
variety of customers and include hospitals, schools, restaurants etc. They 
primarily purchase packaged products. 
e. Retail channel: Retail customers primarily purchase packaged goods which 
are resold through grocery stores. 
f. Industrial customers: Industrial customers purchase fats and oils for use in 
non-edible products (such as biodiesel).  
36. The ACCC conducted market inquiries with market participants within each 
customer channel. The ACCC’s inquiries indicated that the customers that were 
most likely to be affected by the proposed acquisition included acquirers of bulk 
products (notably industrial food manufacturing customers and the bakery 
channel).  
37. The ACCC’s inquiries indicated that some customers require specific blends of fats 
or oils (for example, a mixture of palm and canola oils). These blends are 
completed by the refiner at the packaging stage (in the case of packaged products) 
or blended into the tanker (in the case of bulk products). In this regard, some 
customers require a supplier that is able to supply a range of oils to meet their 
needs. 
Statement of Issues 
38. The ACCC published its Statement of Issues on 18 February 2010 identifying a 
number of competition issues. In the Statement of Issues the ACCC stated its 
preliminary view that the proposed acquisition may raise competition concerns by: 
a. reducing competition for the manufacture and wholesale supply of bulk 
RBD oils and bulk votated products 
b. increasing the risk of coordinated conduct between wholesale suppliers of 
bulk RBD edible fats and oils products 
c. increasing Cargill’s vertical integration, which may affect competition in the 
market for the manufacture and wholesale supply of bulk RBD oil and bulk 
votated products and/or the market for the supply of crude vegetable oils. 
39. In its Statement of Issues, the ACCC identified the following as issues unlikely to 
raise concerns: 
a. Competition for the supply of refined packaged RBD oils 
b. Competition for the supply of votated packaged products 
c. Competition for the supply of refined tallow. 


 
-8- 
Market definition 
40. The ACCC formed a preliminary view in its Statement of Issues that the relevant 
markets for assessing the competitive effects of the proposed acquisition should be 
defined as: 
a. national market for the supply of refined1 bulk edible fats and oils 
b. national market for the supply of refined packaged edible fats and oils 
c. national market for the supply of refined bulk edible bakery and yellow fats 
(referred to as bulk votated products) 
d. national market for the supply of refined packaged bakery and yellow fats 
(referred to as votated packaged products) 
e. national market for the supply of refined tallow 
f. national market for the supply of crude vegetable oils. 
41. Further inquiries made following the publication of the Statement of Issues 
confirmed the ACCC’s views on market definition in most respects. However, on 
the basis of further inquiries, the ACCC refined its views on market definition in 
relation to the supply of RBD bulk edible fats and oils. In relation to these 
products, the ACCC took the view that it was more appropriate to define the 
relevant markets as national markets for the supply of each variety of bulk RBD 
edible fats and oils, as well as a separate market for the supply of bulk RBD 
blended oils. The ACCC’s further analysis of these markets is set out in the section 
below. 
National markets for the supply of each variety of bulk RBD edible fats and oils 
and blended edible fats and oils (bulk RBD product markets) 
Product dimension  
Delivery mode 
42. Market inquiries indicated that customers of RBD oils demand the products to be 
delivered in various modes, so that they are ready for end use. In this regard, both 
RBD oils (or oil blends) and votated products are delivered in either bulk or 
packaged form. 
43. The ACCC considered that from a customer demand perspective, bulk products 
and packaged products were not close substitutes. For buyers of bulk products, the 
ACCC’s inquiries indicated that packaged products were poor substitutes. This is 
due to the difference in quantities and the manner in which the product is delivered 
(ie there are increased handling and disposal costs for bulk customers if they 
purchase packaged products).  
                                                 
1 For the purposes of the Statement of Issues, the term “refined” referred to the three processes of 
refining, bleaching and deodorising (RBD). 


 
-9- 
44. Further, ACCC inquiries confirmed that there are additional specific investments 
necessary from a supply perspective to supply RBD oils in each delivery mode. 
For example, to supply packaged products, customers need to make capital 
investment in packaging and warehouse facilities. Accordingly, the ACCC 
concluded that suppliers of one particular delivery mode could not switch quickly 
and without significant investment to the other delivery mode. 
Oil varieties 
45. The ACCC’s preliminary inquiries suggested initially that the relevant market may 
incorporate various types of RBD edible oils and fats.  However, following the 
release of the Statement of Issues the ACCC was provided with further information 
that indicated that it was more accurate to consider the competitive effects of the 
proposed acquisition in narrower product markets. That is, to treat each main type 
of RBD edible oil and fat as a separate market. In forming its view on the market, 
the ACCC considered the ability (or inability) of both suppliers and customers to 
substitute between each type of oil. 
46. The ACCC’s inquiries following the release of the Statement of Issues confirmed 
that, for customers of bulk RBD fats and oils products, from a demand perspective 
there is limited ability to substitute between different types of oils. In the first 
place, particular RBD fats and oils products have characteristics that make them 
more suitable for certain uses and as such, it was clear that not all oils will be 
suitable for all purposes. For example, some oils are less suitable for frying. 
47. Further, even for those oils that have some capacity to be substitutable, decisions 
made by customers to alter the type of oil used in their products are made over 
time, and usually require research, development and testing of the finished product 
to ensure that it will satisfy consumer demand based on appropriate health 
properties of the oil, product quality, flavour profile, shelf life etc. 
48. The ACCC’s inquiries indicated that customers of bulk edible oil products were 
very sensitive to increases in price. In this regard, customers would switch between 
suppliers in response to a price increase, but total demand for any particular type of 
oil was inelastic because customers could not switch between different types of oil 
products in response to a price increase (i.e. a customer would not switch from 
using bulk canola to bulk sunflower oil) and they could not reduce the volume of 
oil demanded (as it is a necessary manufacturing ingredient for bulk customers). 
49. Accordingly, the ACCC considered that different types of bulk RBD edible oils 
and fats were not close substitutes to each other from the perspective of customers. 
That is, the potential for demand side substitution between different oil varieties is 
unlikely to be sufficient to constrain the ability of a hypothetical monopolist 
supplier of one oil type from profitably imposing a small but significant non-
transitory increase in price of that product. 
50. From a supply perspective, market inquiries in response to the Statement of Issues 
indicated that there are minimal technical barriers to switching refining facilities to 
produce different types of oils (e.g. canola and sunflower varieties). In this regard, 
if a refiner is producing RBD canola oil they are able to readily switch to 


 
-10- 
producing RBD sunflower oil from a technical perspective (ie there is no 
additional equipment required and minimal downtime of production facilities). As 
such, as considered in the Statement of Issues, one possible way to define 
appropriate product markets would be to consider broad markets for the supply of 
refined fats and oils products, incorporating all oil varieties. 
51. However, further inquiries indicated that there are a number of practical difficulties 
limiting the ability of refiners to effectively substitute between the supply of 
different oil types. In particular, as explained further below, refiners face a number 
of difficulties obtaining the inputs necessary to switch production to different types 
of oils at a price which would allow them to provide an effective competitive 
constraint. 
52. Therefore, the ACCC considered that refiners of particular oil varieties are unlikely 
to be able to sufficiently switch production to another oil variety to effectively 
constrain the ability of a hypothetical monopolist supplier of that oil variety from 
profitably imposing a small but significant non-transitory increase in price.   
53. The ACCC considers market definition to be purposive in nature, in that it is a tool 
designed to assist in analysing the competitive effects of a proposed acquisition. In 
this matter, the ability of refiners to switch supply between different types of oils is 
limited by their ability to access particular crude oil inputs. Accordingly, the 
ACCC took the view that it is more appropriate to consider the proposed 
acquisition in a number of narrower markets for the supply of individual oil types 
(e.g. poly sunflower oil).  
54. The oil types upon which the ACCC considered it appropriate to base the relevant 
markets are: 
a. High oleic sunflower 
b. Polyunsaturated (poly) sunflower 
c. Soybean 
d. Palm stearine 
e. Palm olein 
f. Cotton 
g. Coconut 
h. High oleic canola 
i. Poly canola. 
55. As noted above, some oils are delivered to customers in blended form. For 
example, a customer may demand a specific blend of RBD canola and palm 
stearine or a blend of RBD canola and high oleic sunflower. The ability of refiners 
to supply blends depends on their ability to substitute between the supply of the 


 
-11- 
different inputs necessary to produce blended products. As a result the ACCC 
considered that it was also appropriate to consider a separate market for bulk RBD 
blended oils. 
56. The ACCC considered that it was appropriate to define narrower product markets 
for the purposes of considering the proposed acquisition. However, the ACCC 
considered that if the product dimension of the relevant markets was defined more 
broadly, including those markets outlined in the ACCC’s Statement of Issues, this 
would not impact the conclusions reached in the competition analysis. 
Geographic dimension  
57. The ACCC concluded that the geographic scope of the markets were likely to be 
national. ACCC inquiries indicated that there were some limitations on the ability 
of refiners situated on the west coast to supply customers on the east coast (and 
vice versa). However, the ACCC did not receive sufficient information to form a 
concluded view that there were separate markets for east and west coast suppliers. 
National market for the supply of refined bulk edible bakery and yellow fats 
(referred to as bulk votated products market)  
Product dimension 
58. The ACCC considered in its Statement of Issues that votated products were in a 
separate market to other RBD oils. 
59. On the demand side, market inquiries indicated that bulk votated products are 
manufactured using a variety of oil products, sometimes singularly or as blends. 
For example, shortenings are commonly manufactured using palm oils and 
margarines commonly use sunflower oil varieties. 
60. Customers that demand votated products are not able to switch to other products 
(eg. RBD oils) as votated products have specific characteristics (for example, they 
are required to produce many baked goods and have a specific flavour and texture 
profile). Accordingly, the ACCC concluded that other products, including RBD 
oils, were not close substitutes for votated products. 
61. To commence supply of votated products a refiner is required to make a significant 
capital investment in the necessary equipment and achieve sufficient scale to 
obtain an economic return on that investment. Accordingly, the ACCC concluded 
that a refiner of RBD oils could not readily switch to the supply of votated 
products and, as such, considered that votated products should be defined in a 
separate product market or markets to bulk RBD oils  
62. Further, votated products are manufactured using various combinations of single 
RBD oil varieties and / or blended RBD oils. As such, the ACCC considered that it 
may be appropriate to consider separate votated product markets according to oil 
type as outlined in the analysis of bulk RBD oils above. However, for the purposes 
of this competition analysis the ACCC did not consider it necessary to form a 
concluded view on market definition in relation to votated products, as it had 
already concluded that the proposed acquisition would be likely to substantially 


 
-12- 
lessen competition in a number of markets. In addition, the ACCC considered that 
the issues informing its view that a substantial lessening of competition would be 
likely to result in a number of bulk RBD oil markets would extend into any 
analysis of the relevant votated products market or markets, irrespective of the 
market definition adopted. 
Geographic dimension 
63. The ACCC concluded that the geographic scope of the relevant market or markets 
was likely to be national. ACCC inquiries indicated that there were some 
limitations on the ability of suppliers situated on the west coast to supply 
customers on the east coast (and vice versa). However, the ACCC did not receive 
sufficient information to form a concluded view that there were separate markets 
for east and west coast suppliers. 
Other markets 
64. As outlined above, in the Statement of Issues the ACCC also considered the 
competitive effects of the proposed acquisition in the: 
a. national market for the supply of refined packaged edible fats and oils 
b. national market for the supply of refined packaged bakery and yellow fats 
(referred to as votated packaged products) 
c. national market for the supply of refined tallow. 
65. There were some arguments for considering the proposed acquisition in a number 
of narrower product markets for the supply of each different packaged RDB edible 
fat and oil. However, for the purposes of this analysis it was not necessary for the 
ACCC to form a concluded view on this issue. 
Competition analysis – unilateral effects 
66. The ACCC concluded that the proposed acquisition would result in a substantial 
lessening of competition in the following national markets for the manufacture and 
wholesale supply of: 
a. bulk RBD poly sunflower oil 
b. bulk RBD high oleic sunflower oil 
c. bulk RBD soy oil 
d. bulk RBD blended oil products. 
67. The ACCC also continues to have concerns in the national markets for the 
manufacture and wholesale supply of bulk RBD palm stearine and palm olein. 
However, the ACCC did not form a concluded view on whether there would likely 
be a substantial lessening of competition in these markets. 


 
-13- 
68. The ACCC formed its conclusion that there would be a substantial lessening of 
competition in certain bulk RBD markets because: 
a. The proposed acquisition would remove a vigorous and effective 
competitor, which would result in reduced competitive tension in each of the 
relevant markets. 
b. The proposed acquisition would result in a reduction of competitors 
supplying certain bulk RDB oil products (most importantly poly sunflower, 
high oleic sunflower, soybean and blended oils ). Notably there are presently 
only three refiners that supply bulk poly sunflower, high oleic sunflower and 
blended oils, which would be reduced to two, and only two refiners that 
supply bulk soybean oil, which would be reduced to one. 
c. Other remaining competitors or potential new entrants could not viably 
obtain crude vegetable oil inputs necessary to competitively supply 
particular bulk RBD edible fats and oils products (namely, crude sunflower 
and soybean based oils and to a lesser extent crude palm oils).  
d. Barriers to entry and expansion, including the inability to viably obtain 
certain crude vegetable oil inputs, would prevent existing or future market 
participants from replacing the competition lost as a result of the proposed 
acquisition. 
69. While the ACCC considered that the narrower markets outlined above are the 
appropriate markets in which to consider the competition effects from the proposed 
acquisition, the ACCC also considered that the proposed acquisition would result 
in a substantial lessening of competition if a broader product market definition was 
adopted. 
70. The ACCC considered that the proposed acquisition would result in a substantial 
lessening of competition regardless of the market definition adopted because the 
inability to viably obtain crude poly sunflower, high oleic sunflower and/or 
soybean oils, and to a lesser extent palm stearine and palm olein prevented current 
or future market participants from replacing the competition lost as a result of the 
proposed acquisition.  
71. The analysis below outlines the reason for the ACCC’s conclusion. The ACCC 
considers that the relevant factors outlined below would be likely to impact 
competition in either broad or narrow product markets. 
Bulk RBD product markets 
Market concentration 
72. The proposed acquisition would result in significant concentration at the refining 
level. In particular, the proposed acquisition would combine two of the three 
competitors that supply a number of bulk RBD oil products, including poly 
sunflower, high oleic sunflower, palm stearine, palm olein and blended oils. In 
addition, it would combine the only two suppliers of bulk RBD soybean oil. In 
relation to canola, the proposed acquisition would combine two of the top three 


 
-14- 
suppliers of bulk RBD canola. However, other suppliers would remain post-
acquisition, including Manildra / Mac Smith Milling and an expected new entrant. 
73. Goodman Fielder, Cargill and Peerless are by far the largest refiners in Australia, 
in that they have the largest capacity and output. However, there exist a number of 
other refiners that are significantly smaller than the merger parties and do not 
supply products in many of the relevant markets. 
74. While market concentration is not determinative of a substantial lessening of 
competition, changes in the market structure to the degree described above have 
the potential to increase the unilateral market power of the merged firm. 
Barriers to entry and expansion 
75. The ACCC concluded that there are a number of barriers to entry and/or expansion 
that are relevant to markets for the supply of bulk RBD products. In forming this 
view, the ACCC considered the recent history of refiners entering or expanding 
their operations, as well as the ability and incentive for entry and expansion. 
76. The ACCC concluded that barriers to entry for a new market participant (ie 
greenfield entry for a participant without operations in related oil markets) are 
high, because: 
a. There are significant capital costs, including sunk costs 
b. There is a need to obtain sufficient scale in order to effectively compete  
c. Refiners face significant difficulties in gaining competitively viable access 
to non-canola inputs 
d. Suppliers may face difficulties attracting customers as customers need to be 
certain that the supplier can meet their needs to minimise risk to their 
business (in particular suppliers need to be subjected to quality and 
assurance standard testing, and prove their ability to ensure continuity of 
supply, before a customer will be willing to consider switching) 
e. Overcapacity at the refining level is a deterrent to entry 
f. Even in circumstances where some of the above barriers can be overcome, 
entry is unlikely to be sufficiently timely to provide an effective competitive 
constraint post-merger. 
77. As a result the ACCC concluded that barriers to new entry were high and that 
actual or threatened new entry would be unlikely to constrain the merged firm from 
exercising market power post-merger in each of the relevant markets. 
78. The ACCC considered that some barriers to establishing refining facilities by 
certain market participants with operations in other parts of the industry are more 
likely to be surmountable (for example, where market participants already have 
partial refining facilities such as refining and bleaching facilities). 


 
-15- 
79. Further, the ACCC concluded that even if a potential new entrant could overcome 
the other barriers to entry outlined above, it would still face difficulties in 
obtaining viable access to the inputs necessary to provide an effective competitive 
constraint in each of the relevant markets post acquisition. 
Viability of access to inputs 
80. While the ACCC concluded that new entry is unlikely to be sufficiently timely to 
provide an effective competitive constraint post-acquisition, it did observe that 
there are existing refining assets (or expected refining assets) that currently only 
refine canola oil or do not currently refine edible fats and oils products. 
81. Nevertheless, the ACCC concluded that these assets were unlikely to be deployed 
to provide a sufficient competitive constraint in relation to the manufacture of a 
number of non-canola products (in particular, bulk RBD poly sunflower, high oleic 
sunflower, soybean and blended oils) due to a lack of viable access to critical 
inputs (crude vegetable oils and/or oil seeds) necessary to supply each of the non-
canola oil types currently supplied by Goodman Fielder and Cargill. 
82. Different crude vegetable oils are supplied through varying supply chains, either 
entirely from domestic supply, a combination of domestic supply and import 
supply, or fully imported. Imported oils are typically supplied from either 
Southeast Asia (palm and coconut oils) or South America (poly sunflower, high 
oleic sunflower and soybean oils). 
83. If there is insufficient seed grown locally to meet local demand (e.g. poly 
sunflower), refiners must import oil to meet market demand. Refiners can either 
import crude vegetable oil to be fully refined in Australia, or import RBD oil 
which requires re-deodorising in Australia to meet the specifications of 
downstream customers, in particular, customers of bulk RBD oils. Refiners may 
switch between importation of crude vegetable and RBD oils depending on relative 
costs. However, customers require all imported bulk oil to undergo further refining 
(including, at a minimum, deodorising) to meet their needs. 
84. For certain oil varieties (in particular, poly sunflower, high oleic sunflower and 
soybean), the proposed acquisition would provide the merged firm with access to 
the two most cost effective sources of supply (i.e. the limited domestic supply and 
direct bulk tanker imports from South America). Without access to these existing 
supply chains, the ACCC concluded that a potential new entrant would face higher 
costs and risks due to a need to expand domestic supply, take domestic supply 
from the merged firm, or utilise more costly import alternatives. 
85. The ACCC’s inquiries indicated that this increase in cost would need to be 
substantially passed on to customers in order to maintain viable operation of 
refining assets. As such, the ACCC concluded that the level of competitive 
constraint likely to be provided by a potential new entrant in a number of 
downstream markets (in particular, bulk RBD poly sunflower, high oleic 
sunflower, soybean and blended oils) would be limited and would not sufficiently 
replace the competitive constraint lost as a result of the proposed acquisition. 
 


 
-16- 
Shipping of oils 
 
86. Market inquiries revealed that there are two possible methods for importing or 
exporting bulk oils. Firstly, oils can be transported in specialised bulk liquid tanker 
vessels. These tanker vessels can range in capacity from upwards of approximately 
9,000 tonnes. Each ship has a number of compartments of varying size and each 
compartment can be used to transport a different liquid so that a range of different 
liquids can be transported on the same voyage. For example, a ship may be used to 
import a range of food and non-food liquids (ie crude poly sunflower oil, ethanol 
and sulphuric acid).  
87. Alternatively, fats and oils may be transported on container ships in a ‘flexi-bag’ 
that is housed inside a container. Flexi-bags are essentially large bladders holding 
approximately 20 tonnes of oil. The ACCC’s inquiries indicated that it can be 
impractical to use flexi-bags to ship large quantities of oil due to a number of 
issues which increase costs for refiners, due to increased wastage, storage, disposal 
and handling costs, including: 
a. large volumes of flexi bags are difficult to handle, as dealing with 
significant numbers of containerised flexi-bags is practically and logistically 
difficult 
b. a larger portion of the oil is lost in this transport process (compared to 
importation in bulk liquid tankers) as a greater proportion remains in the 
flexi-bag 
c. flexi-bags themselves create a large volume of waste that must be managed. 
Shipping contracts 
 
88. There are a number of different shipping contracts that may be sought by charterers 
(whom are usually refiners, but can be third parties who on sell oils once the 
product enters Australia) that wish to import bulk liquids, including fats and oils. 
These include: 
a. Spot contracts (ie one off contracts of affreightment) 
b. Long term contracts  
c. Voyage charter agreements (i.e. full vessel charter). 
89. The ACCC’s inquiries indicated that there is significant volatility in shipping spot 
markets, which means that while a charterer may, at times, be able to obtain 
cheaper rates under a spot contract than under a long term contract, that charterer 
may also face much higher rates at other times. In addition, freight space may not 
be available at the appropriate time necessary for the charterer to ensure supply. 
Market inquiries indicated that this may impact on the ability of a refiner to 
effectively compete for downstream contracts. 


 
-17- 
90. Longer term shipping arrangements provide greater security of supply and ensure 
certainty in shipping rates for the charterer, and as such, are the standard method of 
importation used by importers of oils. 
91. Certainty of supply and certainty relating to costs are important considerations for 
refiners when tendering to supply refined oils to bulk customers. Customers often 
require refiners to break down the pricing of their tenders into a number of 
components, including freight costs, to compete to supply forward contracts. 
Without certainty of freight rates, it is difficult for suppliers to predict the cost of 
freight and as such, difficult to compete for contracts without a significant degree 
of risk. 
92. Although spot contracts are used to obtain imports of bulk oils from time to time, 
they are used infrequently, usually for one off purchases when long term shipping 
arrangements are unable to meet requirements for some reason. In some 
circumstances, these one off arrangements may result in a loss for the importer 
who must access the inputs to meet their obligations to supply forward contracts. 
93. In addition, there are very limited circumstances in which importers may obtain 
spot shipping on bulk liquid tankers direct from South America. Spot shipping 
from Asia can be more common, given the greater frequency and number of bulk 
liquid tanker vessels travelling to and from Asia. Further, one off voyage charter 
agreements are less common for the importation of bulk oils to Australia, as there 
are few charterers who would be able to fill the volume of a liquid tanker vessel 
outside of a long term contractual arrangement. 
Sources of inputs (crude vegetable oil and/or oilseeds) 
 
Sunflower and soybean  
 
94. Since at least the mid 1980's domestic refiners have supplemented domestic supply 
of poly sunflower and soybean oils (and later, high oleic sunflower oil) with 
significant volumes of crude sunflower and soybean oils sourced from South 
America.  
95. Over time, oils from South America have been acquired and transported to 
Australia through a number of different arrangements. The common characteristic 
of the arrangements has been the aggregation of volume by market participants to 
reduce freight costs and enable efficient supply of the necessary oils.  
Domestic supply 
 
96. Cargill is currently the only domestic crusher of sunflower seeds and soybeans in 
Australia. Cargill self supplies these crude vegetable oils from the domestically 
sourced inputs and sells the remaining crude vegetable oil to other refiners. 
97. The supply of domestic crude poly sunflower, high oleic sunflower and soybean 
oils in Australia is constrained by the next best alternative, that is, the landed prices 
of these oils from South America. By extension, this constraint on the price of 
domestic crude sunflower and soybean oils also impacts the price at which these 


 
-18- 
oilseeds are acquired in Australia. The existence of imports and the related impact 
on the price of oilseeds in Australia therefore determines the size of the relevant 
crops in Australia. The price and size of these domestic oilseed crops is also 
influenced to some extent by the price which farmers can obtain for alternative 
crops, notably sorghum, which may also be less risky and less costly to grow. 
98. There is a significant degree of volatility in the growth of sunflowers in Australia, 
depending on the timing of rain in the sunflower growing regions. If rain does not 
fall at the right time of year, or rains too heavily there is likely to be a significant 
impact on the crop yields.  
99. Given the unpredictable nature of the poly and high oleic sunflower crops, there is 
considerable risk associated with supply of crude oils purely from domestic 
sunflower varieties, particularly due to the need to obtain regular volumes to 
ensure supply to downstream contracts, particularly bulk customers. 
100. There is less volatility surrounding the soybean crop in Australia. However, 
volatility in domestic supply may still impact the risk to a new refining entrant if it 
relies solely on supply from domestic sources. Further, the dynamics affecting the 
quantity of soybean grown are different given that the meal produced from 
soybean is of significantly higher value when compared to the crude vegetable oil. 
101. When Cargill entered the refining functional level in 2007, it was the sole 
incumbent supplier of the whole of the domestic supply of polyunsaturated 
sunflower, high oleic sunflower and soybean oils. As a result, it was already in a 
position to ensure that it could self-supply these oils, and continue to sell the 
excess to other refiners. In this regard, it was uniquely placed compared to a 
possible new entrant wanting to enter or expand into refining of these oils today. 
102. The volume of crude vegetable oil that Cargill crushes and sells to other refiners, 
beyond Cargill’s internal requirements, provides Cargill with a volume buffer to 
diminish the risk to its cost structure associated with potential crop failures. That 
is, if the crop fails and there is less seed available to crush, Cargill is in a position 
to continue to supply crude vegetable oil internally and reduce the volume of crude 
oil supplied to competing refiners. Thus, there is considerably less risk that it 
would need to consider relying on the next best import option to meet its contract 
obligations. A new entrant is likely to face significant difficulties in replicating this 
scenario and as such, is likely to face more significant risks relying on supply of 
domestic seed to meet forward contracts. 
103. A new entrant attempting to ensure supply of crude sunflower and/or soybean oil 
varieties from domestic sources must first compete with Cargill to acquire seed. To 
do this it is likely to need to offer a higher price for seed to either switch existing 
farmers or aggregators so it can take existing supply from Cargill and/or to 
increase the overall quantity of seed grown in Australia, which adds to the costs 
and risks of entry.   
104. In order to effectively compete to supply bulk industrial food manufacturers (and 
therefore provide an effective competitive constraint in the relevant markets), it 
would be necessary for a new entrant to be able to source sufficient quantities of 


 
-19- 
seed to meet their demand. Some bulk customers require significant volumes of 
these oils each year and as such, to effectively compete to supply some large bulk 
customers, a new entrant must secure a significant volume of the current domestic 
crops or significantly increase the size of the crops.  
105. The ACCC considered that a new entrant would be likely to face significant 
difficulties acquiring sufficient volumes of seed to meet the demands of some 
customers at a sufficiently low price to defeat an anti-competitive price rise 
resulting from the proposed acquisition. 
106. The ACCC’s inquiries indicated that other market participants would likely face 
increased costs in obtaining supply of domestic crude sunflower and/or seeds 
(when compared to Cargill’s current costs). Inquiries indicated that an attempt to 
increase the amount of domestic seed grown would result in an increase in the 
price of seed (which would likely have the effect of increasing costs downstream).  
Further the geographic location of some other major crushers acts as a further 
impediment to the viable supply of the crude oil from these seeds. In this regard, it 
is necessary for the crusher to be located in or near the regional area where 
sunflower and soybean varieties are grown (ie northern NSW and southern Qld), 
given that transporting seeds affects the final cost at which the crude vegetable oil 
can be supplied.  
107. In addition, the ACCC considered that the volatility of these crops in Australia 
would be likely to result in a significant level of risk for a new entrant seeking to 
be supplied solely through domestically crushed seed. In the first place, there are 
significant risks and costs to acquire sufficient seed internally. Further, if the crop 
fails and the refiner needs to acquire imported product to meet its contract 
obligations, it will face additional costs associated with the next best import 
alternative, which may result in an operating loss. The ACCC’s inquiries indicated 
that this risk was likely to result in difficulties securing forward contracts from 
customers for bulk poly sunflower, high oleic sunflower and soybean oil varieties. 
Additionally, the ACCC considered that there are certain barriers that would be 
likely to affect a potential new entrant’s ability to viably import specific products, 
which is expanded on below. 
Imported crude sunflower and soybean oil 
 
108. All imported sunflower and soy oil is currently sourced from South America. 
Goodman Fielder currently charters bulk liquid vessels to transport these oils to 
Australia.  
109. Since the 1980s only one shipping company has consistently operated a regular 
bulk liquid service between South America and Australia. This source has been 
responsible for all of the regular volumes of sunflower and soybean oils required in 
Australia.   
 


 
-20- 
110. The ACCC considered the potential viability of a number of alternatives to 
shipping oil from South America to Australia via the above arrangements. In 
particular, the ACCC considered: 
a. Trans-shipping via Asia in bulk liquid ships 
b. Shipping oil in 20 tonne flexi bags housed in a shipping containers 
c. Diverting a ship that is travelling to Asia to stop at a port in Australia 
d. Less frequent sailings of bulk liquid ships direct from South America. 
111. The ACCC’s inquiries raised a number of concerns about each of the alternative 
shipping options identified above, and identified the fact that none of the 
alternatives had functioned as a practical alternative in the past. The ACCC’s 
inquiries further indicated that a new entrant wishing to obtain crude vegetable oils 
via these methods is likely to face a significant increase in cost (relative to Cargill 
and Goodman Fielder’s existing arrangements), so as to impact their ability to 
provide an effective competitive constraint in downstream markets post-
acquisition. 
112. Broadly speaking, the ACCC’s inquiries indicated that the next best alternative to a 
dedicated ship from South America to Australia would be a trans-shipping 
arrangement utilising a bulk liquid tanker vessel. It is noted that trans-shipping can 
only be done at a significant price premium and at greater risk when compared to 
direct shipping from South America, in particular: 
a. the cost of two shipping legs (ie Argentina to Singapore to Australia) adds a 
price premium, which is not always certain if spot market rates are used. 
b. there is a need to store the oil in Asia, which results in an inflated price and 
availability of storage space can be an issue. 
c. there is likely to be increase shrinkage, given that the oil needs to be 
transferred on a number of occasions. 
d. there is a risk that the refiner may not be able to get access to vessels or 
storage that suits its production timing. 
e. there was no evidence that refiners regularly use transhipping as a source of 
importing crude oil. 
113. The ACCC conducted market inquiries with a wide range of market participants 
(including market participants at various functional levels of the supply chain, 
transport and logistics companies) to assess the various costs associated with the 
importation of oil via trans-shipping through Asia. Following these inquiries, the 
ACCC considered that imports of smaller volumes via such arrangements would be 
likely to significantly increase the costs of these inputs relative to the costs faced 
by Cargill and Goodman Fielder under their current arrangements. 


 
-21- 
114. The ACCC notes that numerous cost figures provided by market participants were 
based on estimations of the various spot markets at the time. The ACCC’s inquiries 
indicated that shipping rates on spot markets were relatively low due to depressed 
shipping markets. The ACCC’s inquiries indicated that given the depressed 
shipping rates, it may be difficult for an importer to secure a long term contract 
close to the current spot rates as shippers would be more likely to consider that 
shipping rates will increase over time and, as such, continue to supply at the spot 
price unless enticed with a higher contract price. 
115. As outlined above, given the need to tender for and supply forward contracts, the 
uncertainty of shipping spot markets creates a high degree of risk to a refiner 
seeking to supply these customers, and as such, longer term shipping contracts are 
the standard method of importation of crude oils. 
116. The ACCC also conducted inquiries with a wide range of market participants in 
relation to the ability of refiners to effectively compete utilising imports of crude 
oil directly from South America in flexi bags in containers. The ACCC’s inquiries 
indicated that importation via this method would significantly increase the costs of 
a potential new entrant.  
117. Market participants also raised concerns that obtaining large volumes of crude 
vegetable oils in flexi bags raises a number of other logistical and cost issues (as 
discussed above). 
118. Market participants were quick to dismiss the possibility of diverting a ship bound 
for Asia to Australia to supply the volumes required in Australia as this would 
increase the sailing time of the ship to Asia (where the majority of the cargo would 
be bound) and would be an expensive way to deliver relatively small volumes of 
oils to Australia. 
119. Given that under the current import arrangements from South America there are 
multiple sailings each year, the ACCC considered the possibility that an importer 
could charter a ship to import all of their oil requirements only once a year (or even 
less frequently) to be stored for ongoing use throughout the year. However, the 
ACCC’s inquiries indicated that the associated storage costs would quickly 
increase the cost of the oils so that this supply method would impact the ability of a 
potential entrant to provide an effective competitive constraint. 
120. The ACCC also considered the ability of charterers to combine crude oil imports 
with other liquids (for example, non-edible liquids such as ethanol). The ACCC’s 
inquiries indicated that there are not sufficient volumes of other liquids demanded 
in Australia to support another vessel on this route. 
121. In addition, as outlined above, the ACCC considered that there are a number of 
barriers to entry that are likely to impede the ability of a new entrant to provide a 
timely competitive constraint post-acquisition. As such, the most likely 
competitors to enter or expand into the manufacture and wholesale supply of 
sunflower and soybean oils are those that are likely to have operational refining 
assets within the next two years. The only market participants that are likely to 
have such assets are located inland, away from port access. The ACCC’s inquiries 


 
-22- 
indicated that these refiners would face additional costs to manufacture and supply 
RBD oils from imported crude inputs given the additional freight costs from the 
port to their refineries. 
122. Even if a potential new entrant was located sufficiently close to a port to avoid 
these additional freight costs, the ACCC considered that the additional costs faced 
by such a new entrant seeking to access crude oils from South America would 
significantly diminish the ability of the entrant to effectively replace the 
competitive constraint lost as a result of the proposed acquisition. In addition, the 
ACCC considered that domestic transport costs, which the most likely new 
entrants will face, are likely to further increase the costs for supply of RBD 
sunflower and soybean oil products in the relevant markets, thus further 
diminishing the competitive constraint that these entrants would be likely to 
provide post-acquisition. 
Palm and coconut 
 
123. Palm seeds and coconuts are not grown in Australia, and thus must be imported. 
Palm oil is commonly used in Australia in a variety of food and non-food products. 
It is relatively resource intensive to produce when compared to other oils and is 
primarily grown in Asia. Coconut oil is less commonly used, but is demanded by 
some customers. It is also primarily imported from Asia. 
124. Cargill currently acts as head charterer for regular shipments of palm oils from 
Asia. Goodman Fielder also charters separate vessels for the purpose of importing 
palm oil from Asia. Goodman Fielder and Cargill are able to take advantage of 
mutually beneficial volume discounts by sub-chartering space on their respective 
chartered vessels.  
125. While Goodman Fielder and Cargill take advantage of volume discounts from 
Asia, the cost differential of the next best option is not as significant as oils 
imported from South America. In particular, it is possible for an importer to obtain 
space on some of the existing ships sailing this route chartered by either Cargill or 
Goodman Fielder. This space could theoretically be obtained on the spot market or 
potentially via a long term contract to provide more certainty over the cost of 
shipping (as outlined previously, refiners usually obtain imports of oil under long 
term contracts to reduce risk). However, an alternative importer of bulk oils on 
these ships is likely to face marginally higher costs to Cargill or Goodman Fielder 
given their existing arrangements.  
126. While an alternative importer is likely to face higher costs of shipping than Cargill 
or Goodman Fielder, the ACCC’s inquiries generally supported the view that a 
refiner seeking to ship bulk oils from Asia is likely to be able to obtain shipping at 
rates that are not significantly higher than those currently obtained by existing 
market participants.  
127. However, the ACCC noted that in order to viably access imported palm inputs to 
provide an effective competitive constraint, a refiner would most likely need to be 
located near or within ready access of port facilities. As outlined above, the ACCC 
considered that the most likely entrants into various markets for the manufacture 


 
-23- 
and wholesale supply of bulk RBD oils are located inland, away from port 
facilities. As such, the most likely entrants will face additional inland freight costs 
that may diminish the ability of these participants to constrain the merged entity. 
128. The ACCC noted that, given the much lower differences in shipping costs, the 
possibility of entry into the manufacture and wholesale supply of RBD oils 
supplied from inputs coming direct from Asia (palm and coconut) was likely to be 
slightly better than the potential for entry into the manufacture and wholesale 
supply of RBD oils supplied from inputs coming from South America (sunflower 
and soybean). However, the ACCC considered that there remained a concern about 
the ability of other market participants, in particular the most likely entrants, to 
effectively replace the competitive constraint lost as a result of the proposed 
acquisition in relation to the supply of oils imported from Asia, in particular palm 
oils. 
129. The ACCC did not form a concluded view on whether the proposed acquisition 
was likely to result in a substantial lessening of competition in the relevant markets 
that utilise access to inputs from Asia. While the ACCC had concerns in relation to 
these markets, it took the view that it was unnecessary to form a concluded view, 
as it had already concluded that the proposed acquisition would be likely to 
substantially lessen competition in a number of markets. 
Canola and cottonseed 
 
130. In normal years there is a surplus of canola and cottonseed in Australia which 
results in net exports of both the seed and crude oils. Australia has only relied on 
imports of canola and cottonseed oils in bad drought years when demand 
outweighs supply. The ACCC did not consider that an issue arose from the 
transaction in relation to canola and cottonseed inputs (apart from the vertical 
integration issue, which is discussed further below). 
Countervailing power 
131. The ACCC considered whether customers were likely to be able to exercise 
countervailing power, for example by credibly threatening to bypass the merged 
firm by sponsoring entry, manufacturing in-house, or moving manufacturing 
facilities offshore. The ACCC’s inquiries indicated that customers were unlikely to 
have sufficient countervailing power so as to constrain the merged firm from 
exercising market power.  
132. The ACCC considered that the barriers to entry and expansion discussed above 
would equally apply to the sponsoring of entry or expansion, or manufacturing in-
house. In particular, the ACCC’s market inquiries indicated that even the largest 
customers of bulk refined oils would be unlikely to have sufficient volumes to 
support entry of new refining facilities, especially in an environment where there 
already exists excess capacity at the refining level. In any event, even if bulk 
customers could sponsor the entry of new refining facilities, the new entrant would 
continue to face barriers to viably access the inputs necessary to effectively 
constrain the merged firm in a number of relevant markets. 


 
-24- 
133. In addition, the ACCC’s inquiries indicated that oil is only one input used by 
customers of bulk oils to manufacture their finished products. As a result, any 
consideration of moving manufacturing operations offshore would be based on a 
range of factors and would not necessarily be contemplated in response to an 
increase in the price of bulk refined oil products. 
Imports of bulk RBD oils 
134. The ACCC’s inquiries indicated that, while imports of packaged RBD edible fats 
and oils exist, the threat of imports of bulk RBD oils is unlikely to significantly 
constrain the ability of the merged firm to exercise market power post acquisition.  
135. Market participants advised that importation of bulk RBD oil product is 
problematic given: 
a. The impact of freight costs, including the cost of installing additional 
storage to manage inventory risk 
b. There is an increased supply chain risk, in particular in controlling quality 
from overseas manufacturers and ensuring certainty of supply 
c. Product tends to degrade during transport, thus requiring further refining (in 
particular deodorising) when it reaches Australia 
d. There are significantly longer lead times. 
136. The ACCC’s inquiries indicated that while there are some limited examples of the 
importation of RBD bulk oil products, in practice importation of these products 
does not represent a viable ongoing alternative supply option for customers and 
would be unlikely to provide an effective competitive constraint post-acquisition. 
Closeness of competition and availability of substitutes  
137. The ACCC’s inquiries indicated that Cargill’s entry at the refining level resulted in 
increased competition which benefited customers. In this regard, Cargill was 
considered to be a vigorous and effective competitor that was responsible for 
increasing competition in the relevant markets. For example, inquiries indicated 
that Cargill was particularly responsive and innovative in fulfilling customer needs. 
138. Further, the ACCC’s inquiries with market participants indicated that Goodman 
Fielder and Cargill are each other’s closest competitors for the supply of a number 
of oil products, competing vigorously to win supply contracts. The ACCC’s 
inquiries indicated that for a significant number of customers, other market 
participants do not provide a similar level of competitive tension as Goodman 
Fielder and Cargill.  
139. The ACCC’s inquiries indicated that due to the current arrangements for obtaining 
supply of crude vegetable oil inputs, Goodman Fielder and Cargill face the lowest 
cost structure and therefore, are in a position to most closely compete to supply 
bulk customers with the relevant RBD oils, in particular, bulk RBD poly 
sunflower, high oleic sunflower and soybean oils. In this regard, the proposed 


 
-25- 
acquisition would result in a situation where the merged firm would have ready 
access to the two most economically viable sources of a number of crude oils, 
namely, domestically supplied and imported oils. As identified above, the ACCC 
considered that other refiners would not be able to replicate the existing 
efficiencies in either of these supply chains and as such, would not be able to 
effectively replace the competitive tension between Cargill and Goodman Fielder 
lost as a result of the proposed acquisition.   
140. The ACCC considered the number of alternative suppliers and whether they could 
sufficiently replace the competition lost as a result of the proposed acquisition. 
141. When considering the proposed acquisition in the context of markets based on oil 
varieties, it is noted that the proposed acquisition would result in a reduction of 
competitors from three to two in markets for the wholesale supply of poly 
sunflower, high oleic sunflower, palm stearine, palm olein and blended oil based 
products, and a reduction of competitors from two to one in those markets for 
soybean based products. 
142. As stated above, in a number of markets the ACCC’s inquiries indicated that 
Goodman Fielder and Cargill are each other’s closest competitors for a significant 
proportion of customers. For example, in markets for the wholesale supply of bulk 
soybean oils they are the only suppliers. 
143. The ACCC’s inquiries concluded that in a number of markets for the supply of 
bulk products, notably sunflower and soybean related markets, there are few 
available alternatives suppliers. Further, it is noted that where alternative suppliers 
do exist, they are capacity constrained in their ability to immediately expand 
production. 
Conclusion on unilateral effects in bulk RBD product markets 
144. Based on the above, the ACCC considered that the proposed acquisition was likely 
to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a number of markets. 
Specifically, the ACCC considered that, based on narrow market definitions, the 
proposed acquisition would result in an substantial lessening of competition in the 
following markets: 
a. national market for the manufacture and wholesale supply of bulk RBD poly 
sunflower 
b. national market for the manufacture and wholesale supply of bulk RBD high 
oleic sunflower 
c. national market for the manufacture and wholesale supply of bulk RBD soy 
oil 
d. national market for the manufacture and wholesale supply of bulk RBD 
blended oil products. 
145. The ACCC remains concerned that the proposed acquisition would result in a 
substantial lessening of competition in the national markets for the manufacture 


 
-26- 
and wholesale supply of bulk palm stearine and palm olein. While the ACCC had 
concerns in relation to these markets, it took the view that it was unnecessary to 
form a concluded view, as it had already concluded that the proposed acquisition 
would be likely to substantially lessen competition in a number of markets. 
146. The ACCC concluded that there would be sufficient alternative suppliers of bulk 
canola and cottonseed oil, including an expected new entrant or entrants, such that 
the proposed acquisition would be unlikely to result in a substantial lessening of 
competition in these markets. 
147. The ACCC also concluded that the proposed acquisition would result in a 
substantial lessening of competition should a broader market definition be adopted 
because: 
a. There are difficulties obtaining viable access to raw polyunsaturated 
sunflower, high oleic sunflower and soybean inputs, which resulted in high 
barriers to entry and/or expansion, meaning that any future or existing 
refiner would be unable to effectively supply certain significant  bulk RBD 
edible fats and oils products necessary to sufficiently replace the 
competitive constraint lost as a result of the proposed acquisition. 
b. There would be significant aggregation between refiners that supplied 
certain bulk RBD edible oil products (ie there would be a reduction in 
competitors of this kind from three to two for some bulk RBD oils and two 
to one for others) and consequently, a reduction in the number of suppliers 
able to competitively supply a number of significant segments within any 
broader market. 
c. The competitive tension lost as a result of the proposed acquisition would be 
unlikely to be replaced in the foreseeable future given the height of the 
barriers to entry and expansion. 
Bulk votated products 
Market concentration 
148. The ACCC’s inquiries indicated that Cargill and Goodman Fielder are considered 
by customers to be each other’s closest competitor for the supply of bulk votated 
products. It is noted that there are other refiners with votation equipment. 
However, it is unclear of their ability to effectively constrain the merger parties in 
the supply of bulk votated products.  
Barriers to entry and expansion 
149. Market inquiries indicated that entry into the market for the manufacture and 
wholesale supply of bulk votated products would be most likely to occur through 
incremental expansion of existing refining assets. This is because RBD oils are a 
necessary input into the supply of votated products and votated products are 
generally supplied by refiners. In this regard, barriers to entry and expansion in 
refining markets remain relevant to entry into votated products.  


 
-27- 
150. In addition, the ACCC considered that, although the cost of the additional plant 
and equipment required to produce votated products is relatively low compared to 
a full refining facility, given that votation equipment is used to ‘value add’ to much 
smaller volumes of products than refining assets, the costs associated with votation 
equipment may be sufficiently high so as to inhibit entry into the relevant market 
or markets. 
151. In particular, a refiner seeking to enter the votated product market or markets 
would need to be satisfied that it could obtain sufficient scale in the supply of 
votated products to justify its investment. Thus, expansion is linked to the ability of 
a refiner to win new customers (either through appropriating them from 
competitors or through increased customer demand) without making such an 
investment unviable. 
Viability of access to inputs 
 
152. The ACCC considers that the issues outlined in relation to the access to inputs 
necessary to supply certain RBD oil products remain highly relevant to the 
competition analysis in votated products. Votated products are made by subjecting 
RBD oils to further manufacturing steps, commonly referred to as votation or 
crystallisation. A new entrant into the relevant votatated products market or 
markets would need to viably access the RBD edible oils necessary to produce the 
votated products. 
153. As a result, the ACCC concluded that any inability to viably access the relevant 
inputs to manufacture votated products (i.e. various bulk RBD oils or the inputs 
necessary to manufacture these bulk RBD oils) would inhibit new entry into the 
relevant market or markets for bulk votated products.  
Countervailing power 
 
154. The ACCC notes that there was some evidence that customers had sponsored the 
entry of a refiner into the votated product market or markets in the past by 
providing long term contracts. However, the ACCC further notes that there are 
very few customers who have sufficient volume requirements for bulk votated 
products to effectively sponsor new entry. In addition, it is relatively easy for 
suppliers to discriminate on price between customers such that any customer that 
does not demand sufficient volumes to sponsor new entry may be affected by a 
reduction in the number of competitors from the proposed acquisition. 
155. In addition, there was no evidence to indicate that customers can use 
countervailing power in order to viably access the inputs necessary to produce bulk 
votated products (i.e. customers can not change those issues concerning the 
viability of access to sunflower, soybean or palm inputs). 
156. The ACCC formed the view that, on balance and based on the number of 
customers with the ability and incentive to exercise countervailing power, there 
were serious questions regarding the likelihood of countervailing power acting as a 
sufficient constraint in the relevant market or markets. 


 
-28- 
Conclusion on votated products 
157. The ACCC concluded that the reduction in the number of existing competitors 
supplying bulk votated products, combined with the inability to viably access 
inputs necessary to produce a variety of bulk votated products, raised a serious 
question as to whether a substantial lessening of competition was likely to arise in 
the relevant market or markets for the manufacture and wholesale supply of bulk 
votated products. The ACCC notes that this conclusion would be reached 
regardless of whether a narrow or broader market definition was adopted. 
158. Given the ACCC’s conclusion outlined above in relation to a number of relevant 
bulk RBD oil markets that the inability of suppliers to gain viable access to inputs 
would result in a substantial lessening of competition, the ACCC did not form a 
concluded view on whether, absent these concerns, the merged firm would face 
sufficient competitive constraints in the relevant votated product market or 
markets. In particular, the ACCC did not form a concluded view on whether 
potential entry or countervailing power would be sufficient to effectively constrain 
the merged firm post-acquisition. 
Competition analysis - Coordinated effects 
159. In the ACCC’s Statement of Issues, the ACCC outlined concerns that the proposed 
acquisition may increase the risk of coordinated conduct in relevant markets for the 
manufacture and wholesale supply of bulk edible fats and oils products.  
160. Following the receipt of further information after the publication of the Statement 
of Issues, the ACCC formed the view that the proposed acquisition would be 
unlikely to result in a substantial lessening of competition as a result of coordinated 
conduct.   
Competition analysis - Vertical Integration Issues 
161. In addition to considering the competition concerns on a horizontal basis, the 
ACCC also considered whether additional concerns arose from a vertical 
perspective. In its Statement of Issues, the ACCC sought further information to 
assist its assessment of whether Cargill’s increased vertical integration would 
affect competition in the relevant downstream bulk RBD oil and votated product 
market or markets and / or the relevant upstream crude vegetable oil market or 
markets. 
162. The ACCC identified two issues in its Statement of Issues that may have raised 
competition concerns as a result of Cargill’s increased vertical integration, being as 
follows: 
a. The loss of Goodman Fielder as a customer to other crushers may affect the 
viability or efficiency of those crushers. This would tend to lead to lower 
prices for crude canola oil. 
b. On the other hand, the loss of Cargill as a supplier of crude canola oil to 
refiners may result in reduced competition for the supply of crude canola oil. 
This would tend to lead to higher prices for crude canola oil. 


 
-29- 
163. The ACCC considered that the increased vertical integration of Cargill may alter 
the bargaining power between crushers and refiners, but that it was not clear which 
way that power would shift and how it would affect the price at which crude oil 
was acquired and/or supplied. This is because the above issues consider the shift in 
demand and supply of crude vegetable oils in isolation but when considered 
together, there is a shift in both contestable supply and demand. 
164. As a result of the above, the ACCC was unable to conclude that the proposed 
acquisition would result in a substantial lessening of competition on these 
particular grounds. It is noted that this assessment does not impact on the ACCC’s 
conclusion that the proposed acquisition was likely to substantially lessen 
competition on other grounds as outlined in previous sections of this Competition 
Assessment. 
Conclusion on other markets identified in the Statement of Issues 
165. Information received during market inquiries following the publication of the 
Statement of Issues confirmed that competition issues were unlikely to arise in 
relation to the wholesale supply of packaged products and tallow. 
166. In relation to the markets for the wholesale supply of packaged products RBD oils 
and wholesale supply of packaged votated products, the ACCC’s inquiries 
indicated that there were unlikely to be competition concerns arising from the 
proposed acquisition as imports of packaged products would be likely to act as a 
constraint on any attempt by the merged firm to exercise market power. There are 
currently significant volumes of imported packaged RBD oils and votated products 
and imports of these products do not pose the same difficulties as imports of bulk 
RBD oils and votated products (which are explained further above).  
167. Regarding the manufacture and supply of tallow products, the ACCC understands 
that Cargill does not supply refined tallow (although it does supply unrefined 
tallow products to downstream participants), and accordingly, the ACCC 
concluded that the proposed acquisition was unlikely to have a significant impact 
on competition in these areas of activity. 
Conclusion 
168. On the basis of the above the ACCC formed the view that the proposed acquisition 
of Goodman Fielder's commercial edible fats and oils business by Cargill Australia 
Ltd would be likely to result in a substantial lessening of competition in 
contravention of section 50 of the Act in one or more markets for the manufacture 
and wholesale supply of bulk RBD: 
a. poly sunflower oil 
b. high oleic sunflower oil 
c. soybean oil 
d. blended oils. 
