Page 1 of 11 
 
Public Competition Assessment 
18 May 2020 
Asahi Group Holdings – proposed acquisition of Carlton & 
United Breweries  
 
The ACCC’s decision 
1. 
On 1 April 2020, the ACCC announced its decision not to oppose the proposed 
acquisition by Asahi Group Holdings, Ltd (Asahi) of Carlton & United Breweries 
(CUB), the Australian business of Anheuser Busch InBev SA/NV (AB InBev) 
(the proposed acquisition), after accepting section 87B undertakings from 
Asahi (Asahi Undertaking) and AB InBev (AB InBev Undertaking).  
2. 
The ACCC considered that the undertakings sufficiently addressed its 
competition concerns such that the proposed acquisition would not be likely to 
contravene section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the Act). 
Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to have 
the effect, of substantially lessening competition in any market. 
3. 
The ACCC considered the competitive effects of the proposed acquisition in the 
following markets:  
• 
the supply of cider in Australia, 
• 
the supply of beer in Australia, 
• 
the supply of non-alcoholic products in Australia, and 
• 
the supply of spirits in Australia. 
4. 
The ACCC considered that without the divestments of the Strongbow, Bonamy’s 
and Little Green cider brands and the Stella Artois and the Beck’s beer brands, 
the proposed acquisition would or would be likely to substantially lessen 
competition in the cider and beer supply markets. 
5. 
This Public Competition Assessment outlines reasons for the decision by the 
ACCC not to oppose the proposed acquisition, taking into account the 
undertakings. 


 
Page 2 of 11 
6. 
Please note that this and other public competition assessments are subject to 
the following qualifications: 
• 
The ACCC considers each transaction on a case-by-case basis. The 
analysis and decision outlined in one assessment will not necessarily 
reflect the ACCC’s view of another transaction, even where that other 
transaction may involve the same or a related market. 
• 
As assessments are brief and do not refer to confidential information 
provided by the parties or other market participants, assessments do not 
necessarily set out all of the issues and information considered by the 
ACCC, nor all of the analysis and reasons of the ACCC.  
The parties and the transaction 
The acquirer: Asahi 
7. 
Asahi produces and supplies alcoholic beverages, soft drinks and food products 
in Japan and internationally. In Australia, Asahi manufactures and supplies a 
range of international and domestic beer, cider and spirits brands, including:  
• 
Beer – Asahi Super Dry, Asahi Soukai, Peroni, Cricketers Arms, Pilsner 
Urquell, Grolsch, Mountain Goat, Green Beacon and Two Suns. 
• 
Cider – Somersby (under licence from Carlsberg). 
• 
Spirits – Nikka Whisky, Vodka Cruiser, Woodstock Bourbon, Mist Wood 
Gin, Untold Spiced Rum, Tequila Blu, and Spicebox Whisky. 
8. 
Asahi also supplies a portfolio of non-alcoholic beverages (including Schweppes, 
Pepsi, Mountain Dew, Solo, Sunkist, and Passiona), and a number of water, 
cordial, sports, juice and iced tea brands.  
9. 
Asahi’s main brewery is located in Laverton, Victoria. It also has the smaller 
Mountain Goat brewery in Richmond (Victoria), Green Beacon brewery in 
Geebung (Queensland) and the Green Beacon brewpub in Teneriffe 
(Queensland). Asahi bottles and distributes Somersby cider products at the 
Laverton brewery. 
The target: CUB 
10. CUB is owned by the Belgium-headquartered, multinational brewing company 
AB InBev. AB InBev acquired CUB from SABMiller in October 2016. CUB is a 
Victorian-headquartered Australian brewing company, which produces a range 
of beer, cider and spirit brands, including: 
• 
Beer – Great Northern, Victoria Bitter, Carlton Draught, Carlton Dry, 
Cascade Premium, Pure Blonde, Matilda Bay, Melbourne Bitter, Crown 
Lager, Pirate Life, 4 Pines, Foster’s Lager, Reschs and Balter.  
(CUB also imports or manufactures and then distributes a range of other 
beer brands under licence, including Goose Island, Corona, Stella Artois, 
Belle-vue, Hoegaarden, Leffe, Beck’s, Lowenbrau, Spaten and Budweiser). 


 
Page 3 of 11 
• 
Cider – Strongbow, Mercury, Bonamy’s, Little Green, Lumber Yak and 
Pure Blonde Cider.  
(CUB also manufactures and distributes Bulmers under licence from 
Heineken). 
• 
Spirits – Cougar, Black Douglas, Lexington Hill, Karloff, Continental 
Liqueurs, Coyote and Prince Albert. 
11. CUB produces both beer and cider at CUB plants located at Abbotsford 
(Victoria), Yatala (Queensland) and Cascade (Hobart, Tasmania). The CUB 
plants 4 Pines (New South Wales), Pirate Life (South Australia) and Balter 
(Queensland), produce beer but not cider. 
The transaction 
12. On 19 July 2019, Asahi announced that it had entered into a Sale and Purchase 
Deed with AB InBev, to purchase CUB for A$16 billion, by way of an acquisition 
of shares.  
13. As part of the proposed acquisition, Asahi will acquire the right to supply and 
distribute some AB InBev products in Australia. 
Review timeline 
14. The following table outlines the timeline of key events for the ACCC in this 
matter.  
Date 
Event 
23 August 2019 
ACCC commenced informal review under the Informal Merger Review 
Process Guidelines. 
12 December 2019 
ACCC published a Statement of Issues outlining preliminary 
competition concerns. 
28 February 2020 
ACCC commenced market consultation on proposed s87B 
undertaking.  
1 April 2020 
ACCC announced it would not oppose the proposed acquisition, 
subject to section 87B undertakings accepted by the ACCC.  
15. The total elapsed time from start to finish was approximately seven months.  
However, the total period net of time taken by the parties to submit information or 
documents was 142 business days. 
Market inquiries 
16. The ACCC conducted market inquiries with a range of industry participants, 
including competitors, customers, industry bodies and other interested parties. 
Submissions were sought in relation to the substantive competition issues and 
the Asahi Undertaking.1  
                                                 
1 Consultation was not required on the AB InBev Undertaking as the objective of the AB InBev 
Undertaking is to require AB InBev to promptly facilitate, and not unreasonably withhold its consent to, the 
disposal of the divestiture businesses to an ACCC-approved purchaser pursuant to the Asahi 
Undertaking. 


 
Page 4 of 11 
Statement of Issues 
17. On 12 December 2019, the ACCC published a Statement of Issues on the 
proposed acquisition identifying a number of competition concerns. In the 
Statement of Issues, the ACCC stated its preliminary view that the proposed 
acquisition: 
• 
is likely to substantially lessen competition in the supply of cider products 
in Australia due to significant consolidation in the cider market, 
• 
may substantially lessen competition in the supply of beer products in 
Australia due to the removal of Asahi as a vigorous and effective 
competitor in the beer market, and 
• 
is unlikely to substantially lessen competition in the supply of spirits and 
the bundling of alcoholic and non-alcoholic products in Australia. 
Industry background 
18. The parties provide wholesale supply to a range of distributors and retailers. 
Retailers are generally described as either ‘on- premise’ (for example, pubs, 
restaurants) or ‘off-premise’ (for example, bottle shops), according to whether or 
not alcohol is consumed at the place of sale.  
19. In general, off-premise retailers focus on selling packaged alcohol (bottles/cans), 
whereas on-premise venues sell packaged alcohol and/or alcohol from kegs.  
Other industry participants 
20. Lion Pty Limited (Lion) is a beverage and food company that operates in 
Australia and New Zealand, and a subsidiary of Japanese beverage company, 
Kirin. Lion produces a range of beer, wine, cider and ready to drink (RTD) 
products. 
21. Coopers Brewery Ltd (Coopers) is based in South Australia and produces a 
range of beers, ciders, home brews and malt extracts.  
22. Coca-Cola Amatil Limited (CCA) manufactures and supplies a range of alcoholic 
and non-alcoholic beverages in Australia and the Asia-Pacific region, including 
beer and cider products. 
23. There are also a large number of independent craft brewers of varying sizes in 
Australia. Some of the larger craft brewers with a national presence include 
Stone & Wood, Gage Roads Brewing Co, Colonial Brewing and Young Henrys. 
There are currently around 600 independent craft brewers that operate in 
Australia. Many of these craft brewers only produce small volumes and distribute 
their product in their local area. 
24. Major off-premise liquor retailers (such as Coles owned Liquorland and 
Woolworths owned BWS and Dan Murphy’s) also supply private label beer and 
cider products produced for them via contract brewing arrangements. Some 
retailers also have exclusive arrangements to sell international brands.  


 
Page 5 of 11 
25. Table 1 below provides an overview of most of the main beer and cider brands 
in Australia. It is not a comprehensive list of all beer and cider brands. The 
brands are listed against the broad industry categories commonly used in the 
industry.  
Table 1: Cider and beer brands 
Asahi 
CUB 
Lion 
Coopers 
CCA 
Private label 
(examples)  
Cider 
• Somersby  
• Bonamy’s 
• Bulmers 
• Little Green 
• Lumber Yak 
• Mercury 
• Pure Blonde 
Cider 
• Strongbow  
• 5 Seeds 
• James 
Squire  
• Kirin Cider 
• Pipsqueak 
• Thatchers 
Cider 
• Angry 
Orchard 
• Magners 
• Pressman’s 
cider 
• Rekorderlig 
• Castaway 
Cider  
• Mr Finch 
Cider 
• Renberg 
Swedish Cider 
• Steamrail  
Cider 
• Storm 
Brewing Co 
Apple Cider 
Beer 
“Premium international beer” 
• Asahi 
Soukai  
• Asahi Super 
Dry 
• Grolsch 
• Peroni  
• Pilsner  
Urquell 
 
 
• Beck’s 
• Belle-vue 
• Budweiser 
• Corona Extra  
• Corona Ligera  
• Franziskaner 
• Hoegaarden 
• Leffe 
• Lowenbrau 
• Negra Modelo 
• Pacifico Clara 
• Spaten 
• Stella Artois 
• Amstel 
• Birra Moretti 
• Guinness 
• Heineken 
• Kilkenny 
• Kirin 
• Steinlager 
• Carlsberg  
• Fix Hellas 
• Kronenbourg 
• Mythos 
• Sapporo 
• Coors 
• Fiji Bitter 
• Miller 
Genuine Draft 
• Samuel 
Adams 
• Vailima 
• Vonu 
 
 
 
 
 
• Hollandia* 
• Oettinger* 
• Überbräu* 
• Royal Dutch* 
“Craft” beer 
• Cricketers 
Arms 
• Mountain 
Goat 
• Green 
Beacon 
Brewing Co. 
 
• 4 Pines 
• Balter 
• Goose Island 
• Matilda Bay  
• Pirate Life  
• Yak Ales 
• Byron Bay 
• James 
Squire  
• Knappstein 
• Kosciuszko 
Pale Ale 
• Little 
Creatures 
• White Rabbit 
• Coopers 
• Feral 
Brewing Co. 
• Yenda 
 
• 3 Pub Circus 
• Balmain 
• John Boston 
• Lorry Boys 
• Sail & 
Anchor 
• Steamrail 
• Storm 
Brewing Co 
Other beer 
• Two Suns 
 
• Carlton 
Draught 
• Carlton Dry 
• Cascade 
Premium 
• Crown Lager  
• Foster’s Lager   
• Great 
Northern 
• Melbourne 
Bitter  
• Pure Blonde 
• Resch’s 
• Victoria Bitter 
• Emu 
• Furphy 
• Hahn 
• Iron Jack 
• James 
Boag’s 
• Swan 
• Tooheys 
• West End 
Draught 
• XXXX 
 
• Coopers  
• Dr Tim’s 
 
• Alehouse 
• Miller Chill 
 
• Bluey 
• Hammer ‘N’ 
Tongs 
• Maxx  
• Steersman 
• Tun 
(*) Liquor retailer has an exclusive arrangement to sell this international brand. 


 
Page 6 of 11 
Market definition 
26. Market definition establishes the relevant fields of inquiry for competition 
analysis. The ACCC’s starting point involves identifying the products actually or 
potentially supplied by the parties to the acquisition. The ACCC then considers 
what other products constitute sufficiently close substitutes to provide a 
significant source of competitive constraint on those products. 
27. While the ACCC also considered the markets for spirits and non-alcoholic 
beverages, the discussion focusses on the cider and beer markets. The ACCC 
considered that these were the markets in which competitive harm was likely to 
arise. 
Whether beer and cider are in separate markets 
28. The ACCC considered that for the purpose of analysing this proposed 
acquisition, cider is a relevant product market, separate to beer. 
29. In terms of demand-side substitution, the ACCC’s investigation showed that 
while some consumers purchase cider and other types of alcohol such as beer, 
wine or RTDs, the majority of consumers do not view them as substitutes.  
30. The ACCC was provided data indicating that some consumers buy beer and 
cider products in the same purchase. However, the ACCC was not persuaded 
that this, of itself, means those products are necessarily substitutes. The 
concurrent purchase of two products does not mean the two products are 
substitutes for each other. The relevant issue is whether consumers are likely to 
switch from one product to another in response to a change in relative price, 
service or quality.  
31. The ACCC noted from market feedback that while some customers may 
increase their cider consumption in response to an increase in the price of beer, 
and vice-versa, the substitution was unlikely to be sufficient to indicate that beer 
and cider are in the same market.  
32. With regard to supply-side substitution, the ACCC noted that brewers can use 
the same packaging line for beer and cider. While this is the case, there are 
other differences in beer and cider production processes that make changing 
between beer and cider production costly. These include:  
• 
production tanks that cannot be easily switched, or at a minimum, require 
additional cleaning procedures to switch between beer and cider 
production, and 
• 
significant time and sunk investment, particularly in marketing, are required 
to establish profitable cider and beer brands.  
Whether different categories of beer are in separate markets 
33. The ACCC noted in its Statement of Issues that it was considering whether there 
are separate markets for different types of beer (such as “premium international” 
and “craft” beers) or whether all beer is in the same market.  


 
Page 7 of 11 
34. Many industry participants place beer brands into different categories. For 
example: 
• 
“Premium international beer” brands include Corona (CUB), Stella Artois 
(CUB), Asahi (Asahi), Peroni (Asahi) and Heineken (Lion). 
• 
“Craft” beer brands include 4 Pines (CUB), James Squire (Lion), Green 
Beacon (Asahi), Stone & Wood, Young Henry’s, Gage Roads and Colonial 
Brewing. 
• 
Other “classic” beer brands include Carlton Draught (CUB) and Tooheys 
New (Lion).  
Further examples can be seen in Table 1 above. 
35. Following the Statement of Issues, the ACCC analysed the extent to which 
consumers switched between different categories of beer (demand-side 
substitution) and the extent to which beer suppliers can switch their production 
capacity from one beer category to another (supply-side substitution). 
36. The ACCC did not reach a concluded view on whether different categories of 
beer are in the same or separate markets. Consideration of separate category-
based markets would not have significantly affected the ACCC’s analysis or its 
decision to accept the undertakings.  
Whether on-premise and off-premise are in the same market 
37. The ACCC considered that the supply of beer, irrespective of location of 
purchase (i.e. on-premise or off-premise) or how it is packaged (i.e. packaged in 
bottles/cans or in kegs) is likely to be a single market. However, the ACCC does 
recognise that there are some characteristics that are unique to on-premise 
channels. The same conclusion was reached for cider.  
Competition analysis 
38. The ACCC analysed a range of information, including internal documents and 
financial information from Asahi and CUB. The ACCC also conducted extensive 
market inquiries with industry participants about the likely effect of both the 
proposed acquisition and Asahi Undertaking. 
Competition issues in the cider market  
39. Asahi and CUB were the two largest suppliers of cider in Australia. Information 
received by the ACCC indicated that a combined Asahi and CUB would have a 
cider market share of approximately 65–70 per cent. Further, a combined Asahi 
and CUB would supply most major cider brands (in particular Somersby, 
Strongbow and Mercury), which have high brand awareness among consumers. 
40. The next largest cider suppliers in Australia are CCA and Lion, each with 
approximately 5–10 per cent market share. Market feedback and information 
considered by the ACCC indicates that cider brands supplied by Lion (for 
example, 5 Seeds), CCA (for example, Rekorderlig), craft and independent 
brewers, and private label products compete with the Asahi and CUB brands, but 


 
Page 8 of 11 
are not nearly as close competitors as the Asahi and CUB brands are with each 
other.  
41. Moreover, ACCC data analysis and market feedback provided to the ACCC 
indicated that Strongbow (CUB) and Somersby (Asahi) are likely to be each 
other’s closest competitors. A significant number of consumers appear to switch 
between Strongbow and Somersby in response to changes in their relative 
prices.   
42. The ACCC considered that the threat of timely and profitable new entry or 
expansion of sufficient scale would not provide a strong competitive constraint 
on the combined entity.  
43. On the basis of the above, the ACCC concluded that the removal of the 
competitive rivalry between Asahi and CUB would be likely to enable a combined 
CUB and Asahi to profitably increase the price of cider products by a significant 
amount. The ACCC concluded that, absent the Asahi Undertaking, the proposed 
acquisition would have the effect of substantially lessening competition in the 
supply of cider in Australia.  
44. To remedy this concern, Asahi has given a court enforceable undertaking 
pursuant to s87B of the Act that it will divest the following CUB cider brands to 
an ACCC-approved purchaser after acquiring CUB: 
• 
Strongbow, 
• 
Bonamy’s, and 
• 
Little Green.  
45. Sold together, the divestment of these brands (which together have the second-
highest cider market share) is intended to enable a new or existing supplier of 
cider to replace the competition lost between Asahi and CUB.  
46. Taking into account the undertakings, the ACCC concluded the proposed 
acquisition was unlikely to substantially lessen competition in the market for the 
supply of cider in Australia. Further information about the Asahi Undertaking and 
the AB InBev Undertaking is set out below.  
Competition issues in the beer market  
47. As noted in the section on market definition above, the ACCC did not form a 
view on whether different beer categories are part of the same market, or form 
separate markets. For the purpose of this competition assessment, the ACCC 
treated each beer category as a segment of the beer market, recognising the 
closeness of competition within each segment.  
48. The beer market in Australia is highly concentrated with CUB and Lion 
accounting for approximately 80 per cent of the market. The next largest beer 
suppliers are Coopers with approximately 5–7 per cent share, Asahi with 
approximately 3.5 per cent share and CCA with approximately 1–2 per cent 
share.  


 
Page 9 of 11 
49. Small players can significantly affect the intensity and/or quality of competition 
and the ACCC considered Asahi’s impact on competition was significant, despite 
having 3.5 per cent market share.  
50. The ACCC considered that Asahi is in a unique position to compete against the 
two main incumbents, Lion and CUB, particularly in craft beer and premium 
international beer. 
51. Asahi is a well-resourced global competitor and offers a strong portfolio of 
brands in Australia. Prior to the proposed acquisition, Asahi was committed to 
growing its Australian operations. Asahi’s presence in the on-premise channel 
made it a key competitor for taps that were not contracted to Lion and CUB. 
Market feedback indicated that Asahi acted in a way that constrained the beer 
prices of Lion and CUB. 
52. The ACCC considered that a new entrant or smaller competitors are unlikely to 
replicate Asahi’s competitive presence. Although there are a large number of 
individual craft beer brands being sold in Australia, with apparent low barriers to 
smaller-scale entry, these independent craft brewers only have shares of no 
more than 0.5–1 per cent each. The ACCC considered that while the presence 
of independent craft brewers may increase consumer choice, individual craft 
brewers may not place effective competitive constraint on the two large 
incumbents. 
53. The ACCC also noted that brand awareness, along with marketing expenditure, 
are extremely important to increasing share in the beer market. Market feedback 
indicated that even competitors with established distribution networks can face 
difficulties in establishing new profitable brands. 
54. The ACCC also noted market feedback indicating particularly close competition 
between some Asahi and CUB brands in the “premium international beer” 
segment. As shown in Table 1, Asahi and CUB supply a significant number of 
premium international beer brands in Australia.  
55. In response to the ACCC’s concerns, Asahi offered a court enforceable 
undertaking pursuant to section 87B of the Act, to divest the following CUB beer 
brands to an ACCC-approved purchaser after acquiring CUB: 
• 
Stella Artois, and 
• 
Beck’s.  
56. Taking into account the undertakings, the ACCC concluded that the proposed 
acquisition was unlikely to substantially lessen competition in the market for the 
supply of beer in Australia. Further information about the Asahi Undertaking and 
the AB InBev Undertaking is set out below.  
Undertakings 
57. The ACCC concluded that the Asahi Undertaking and AB InBev Undertaking 
addressed its competition concerns with the proposed acquisition. A copy of the 
Asahi Undertaking and the AB InBev Undertaking is available on the ACCC 
mergers register and undertakings register.  


 
Page 10 of 11 
Asahi Undertaking 
58. In order to address the ACCC’s competition concerns in relation to the cider and 
beer markets, Asahi offered a court enforceable undertaking pursuant to section 
87B of the Act. The ACCC spoke to a range of market participants, including 
potential purchasers about the Asahi Undertaking. 
59. The key elements of the Asahi Undertaking are set out below:  
• 
Asahi will divest the Strongbow, Bonamy’s and Little Green cider brands 
which are currently CUB brands (the Cider Business) and the Stella Artois 
and Beck’s beer brands, which are AB InBev global brands and are 
currently supplied by CUB in Australia (the Beer Business). Divestiture 
will include all relevant inventory, business records, employees, contracts 
and intellectual property rights. 
• 
The Cider Business and Beer Business may be sold to a single ACCC-
approved purchaser or to separate ACCC-approved purchasers. One of 
the factors the ACCC may consider in making the decision whether to 
approve a proposed purchaser, is the effectiveness of a proposed 
purchaser if the Beer Business and the Cider Business are not both 
acquired.   
• 
At the option of the ACCC-approved purchaser(s), Asahi must supply any 
technical assistance, transitional supply or co-packing arrangements that 
are required by the purchaser to establish itself as a competitor in the 
beer/cider market. 
• 
Asahi will provide the ACCC-approved purchaser(s) with, customer 
information, the number of taps dedicated to the divestiture business 
product, mapping or planograms of the divestiture business products in the 
possession of Asahi, and the total volume of divestiture business products 
sold at on and off premise venues. This information is required to be 
provided to cover specified time periods set out in the undertaking. 
• 
For a period of three years: 
 
Asahi will treat divestiture business products as Asahi products for 
the purposes of any supply arrangement with an on-premise or off-
premise venue.  
 
Additionally, if a venue wishes to remove Stella Artois from its taps 
during the three year period, Asahi will not agree with an on-premise 
venue to replace a Stella Artois tap (with another Asahi branded tap) 
if the ACCC-approved purchaser has not been given a reasonable 
opportunity (being a period of not less than 5 business days) to 
replace the Stella Artois tap. 
 
Asahi will not exercise or threaten to exercise any right under any 
supply arrangement, with the purpose of adversely influencing the 
venue’s decision in relation to purchase, tap usage, or representation 
of the divestiture brands. 


 
Page 11 of 11 
• 
In relation to the Beer Business, the ACCC-approved purchaser will also 
be offered the opportunity to participate in key planned sponsorship 
arrangements in line with pre-existing CUB promotional plans. 
• 
Asahi must appoint an ACCC-approved independent manager to manage 
the divestiture businesses from completion of the proposed acquisition until 
the divestiture of the divestiture businesses.  
• 
Asahi must appoint an ACCC-approved independent auditor to monitor 
Asahi’s overall compliance with the undertaking. 
AB InBev Undertaking 
60. To support the Asahi Undertaking, the ACCC also accepted an undertaking from 
AB InBev to address the ACCC’s concerns that AB InBev may not provide its 
consent to the transfer of the rights and obligations to an ACCC-approved 
purchaser that are necessary for Asahi to complete the sale of the divestiture 
business.  
61. The objective of the AB InBev Undertaking is to address the ACCC’s concerns 
by requiring AB InBev to promptly facilitate, and not unreasonably withhold its 
consent to, the disposal of the divestiture businesses to an ACCC-approved 
purchaser pursuant to the Asahi Undertaking. 
